BENGALURU: Schools and colleges in the city will remain closed on Thursday on account of the Karnataka bandh called by pro-Kannada activists, to protest the Mahadayi water issue. However, schools have been directed by the deputy commissioner of Bengaluru and education department to work full day on February 3 or 10, both Saturdays.

 “If a school isn’t able to compensate the off on either of the Saturdays, they will have to work the following Sunday. Since examinations are closing in, it is not a feasible time to declare holidays," said Abdul Wajid Khaji, deputy director, Bengaluru South.
 
 ALSO READ: 
 
 
 Bangalore University and Visvesvaraya Technological University declared that exams scheduled for Thursday have been postponed. VTU’s postgraduate degree examinations on Thursday have been postponed to February 5, while the timings remain unchanged. BU stated that thirdyear BCom and BBM exams will be held on January 31 along with PGDBA, DHRM, DMM and DHA exams.
 
 Second-year MA and MSc exams will be held on February 2, third-year BA and BSc papers are scheduled for February 5 and first-year BA, BSc, BCom, BBM and second-year MCom exams are postponed to February 8. There will be no change in the timings and venues.
 
 Hoteliers have decided not to support the bandh. “We don’t want any more bandhs. Other than affecting lives and businesses, these protests don’t help anybody,” said P C Rao, vice-president of Bengaluru Hoteliers’ Association. Hoteliers have sought police protection.
 
 Malls will be closed and a few film theatre owners have decided to stop screening of films till 6pm. “Since the protest is about the interests of farmers and for water, it is our responsibility to support the cause,” said Uday Garudachar, MD, Garuda Mall.
 
 Healthcare services will not be affected. Health commissioner Manoj Kumar Meena said that no holidays can be granted on January 25. “If doctors and medical staff have taken leave on January 25, it must be cancelled,” the commissioner said.
 
 State-run   and BMTC said they will ply as usual, unless there are any untoward incidents.
 
 "We will start normal service but if there are any safety issues, we may stop trains till it’s safe to commence operations,” said Vasanth Rao, PRO, Namma Metro.
 
 Wipro, which is among private establishments that have declared a holiday, said, “On account of the shutdown called by various organizations, as a precautionary measure, Wipro has declared a holiday for employees in Karnataka on Thursday. Business continuity plans have been invoked to avoid disruption to mission critical projects.”
 
 
 
 
 City police commissioner T Suneel Kumar said 50 KSRP platoons and 15 CAR platoons will join 15,000 police personnel deployed in the city during the bandh. “We have detained scores of habitual offenders, rowdysheeters and antisocial elements. We’ll intensify patrolling. Stern action will be taken against those forcing others to observe the bandh.”
 
 
 
 Vatal Nagaraj, leader of Kannada Okkuta, which is helming the protest, said activists will take out a rally on Thursday morning, from Town Hall to Freedom Park. Several organizations are backing the bandh, while some like Jai Karnataka and Praveen Shetty-led Karnataka Rakshana Vedike plan to stay away. Activists of the T A Narayana Gowda-led Karnataka Rakshana Vedike will launch a rail-roko in all 30 districts.
 
 While there is no final decision on the February 4 shutdown, the BJP threatened to call a tit-for-tat Bengaluru bandh on February 10, when Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is visiting. The BJP alleged that the twin bandhs are ploys by Congress to disrupt its Parivarthana Yatra.
 
 
 
 HUBBALLI: The bandh called by several farmers’ and pro-Kannada organizations is likely to be total in North Karnataka as this region has been demanding Mahadayi water from Goa. The education department has issued closure of all aided, unaided and government primary and secondary schools and preuniversity colleges in the region. However, classes will be held on Sunday.
 
 MYSURU: Police have made elaborate security arrangements for BJP chief Amit Shah’s first visit to Mysuru. Shah, who has Z-plus security cover, will participate in the valedictory of state BJP chief B S Yeddyurappa-led Parivarthana Rally at Maharaja’s Ground on Thursday. Shah will arrive by a special flight at Mandakalli airport from New Delhi around 2pm and will leave Mysuru at 4pm.
 
 MANGALURU:   will not face the heat of the bandh, said DC S Sasikanth Senthil. All businesses, services and educational institutions will function normally as the administration does not foresee any trouble. DCP (law & order) Hanumantharaya said the bandh is highly unlikely to get support here. Schools across the district will function as usual. 
 
 
