CHANDIGARH: Giving relief to   mayor  , the Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday quashed Punjab government’s show-cause notice to him by allowing his petition, challenging the notice. 

 The Punjab local bodies department, headed by minister  , had issued notice to Kulwant for his role in alleged corruption in purchasing a  . This notice was served on him as part of the process of his suspension as a councillor. The high court also stated that the government could initiate inquiry against him “in accordance with law”.
 
 The Punjab government had claimed that the pruning machine was available for Rs 20 lakh, but the mayor purchased it for Rs 1.79 crore, resulting in loss to the state exchequer.
 
 Senior advocate Deepinder Singh Patwalia, representing Kulwant, argued that the notice was politically motivated and premeditative as the government wanted to remove him. It was also argued that the minister concerned had given a public statement earlier that the mayor would be removed soon, and the investigation has been handed over to a person who was not even a government officer. 
 
 It was argued that the notice was served on the basis of a vigilance report, which is still not out. It was claimed that proper procedure was followed while buying the machine and two bids were received, besides the proposal on the purchase was not taken individually and approved by 42 of the 43 councillors.
 
 On the other hand, justifying the notice, the Punjab government, argued that the process of purchase of the tree-pruning machine was initiated with a decided mind and the mayor violated the whole procedure of tendering and subsequent release of amount to the contractor. It was stated that this caused loss to the state exchequer.
 
 The court set aside the show-cause notice and allowed the Punjab government to initiate an inquiry against him as per law. 
 
 On the other hand, justifying the notice, the Punjab govt, argued that the process of purchase of the tree-pruning machine was initiated with a decided mind and the mayor violated the whole procedure of tendering and subsequent release of amount to the contractor. It was stated that this caused loss to the state exchequer. The court set aside the show-cause notice and allowed the Punjab government to initiate an inquiry against him as per law.
 
 THE CASE DIARY
 
 January 4 - Local bodies department issued show-cause notice to mayor
 
 January 11 - Mayor Kulwant Singh challenged the notice in HC
 
 February 1 - HC reserved order on the petition
 
 February 15 - HC quashed the show-cause notice by allowing mayor’s petition
 
 
