GANDHINAGAR: ‘Chaalo Gujarat’, said to be the largest gathering of Non-Resident Gujaratis (NRGs) outside India — which has been held in the US for the past several years — has been re-branded as ‘Chalo India’. The first edition of   will be held from August 31 to September 2 at the NJ Expo Centre in Edison, New Jersey, the US. Organizers say it is expected to bring together the biggest ever congregation of Non-Resident Indians (NRIs), including the NRGs, from across the world.

  Prime Minister  , chief ministers of more than a dozen states, top business leaders, and eminent persons representing various fields are expected to participate in the event. The Government of India’s Pravasi Bharatiya Divas will be held in Varanasi from January 21 to 23, 2019. And the   government’s Vibrant Summit will be held from January 18 to 20, 2019. Chalo India is expected to drum up interest in the two events. Many of Chalo India’s organizers are associated directly or indirectly with the BJP and the event is likely to be the biggest outreach programme by the BJP-led Union government for the powerful Indian diaspora before the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Sunil Nayak, the founder of the Association of Indian Americans in the North America (AIANA), and the organizer of   and Chalo India, said: “Chaalo Gujarat has not only become a marquee event but also truly qualifies to be the biggest and the best gathering of NRIs outside India. Chalo India has been envisaged as a signature India event in the the US.” Of Chaalo Gujarat, he said that the event takes place at a venue spread over 1,75,000 sq ft. “The event is unparalleled both in terms of thought that goes into its conception as well as in terms of execution on the ground,” he said. “Needless to say, the event has become the most prestigious one for the Indian diaspora in the US.”
 
 India Tourism Festival at the event will showcase to the diaspora the rich culture and traditions of India as well as its tourist attractions. Several Indian State Tourism Boards are expected to put up their pavilions. Musical programmes, cultural events, and an art festival will be among the attractions of Chalo India. An exhibition will commemorate the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi.
 
 
