MUMBAI: Khalsa College principal Kiran Mangaonkar,   commerce professor Vivek Deolankar and VJTI professor B B Meshram are some of the prominent names among the 64 candidates shortlisted for the post of Mumbai University’s vice-chancellor. 

 Significantly, it is being speculated that acting vice-chancellor Devanand Shinde either did not apply for the post or his application was rejected during scrutiny on technical grounds.
 
 Following the dismissal of vice-chancellor Sanjay Deshmukh on October 25, 2017 over the delay in announcing results and the ensuing fiasco, governor Vidyasagar Rao, who is also chancellor of all universities in the state, had set up a search committee to find a replacement.
 
 The committee is headed by renowned space scientist K Kasturirangan, a former vice-chancellor of the prestigious Jawaharlal Nehru University. It also includes principal secretary Bhushan Gagrani as the state government nominee and Uttarkhand’s National Institute of Technology director Shyam Lal Soni as the   nominee.
 
 An official said the committee received a total of 102 applications, of which 64 were shortlisted for interviews. As per the advertisement, the candidates were asked to submit four copies of the application along with a soft copy. Candidates who failed to do the needful were among those who were rejected.
 
 The official said the committee is expected to meet in the first week of March and complete the interview process as soon as possible. It is expected to submit the list of five shortlisted candidates to Raj Bhavan by the end of April first week. The entire exercise of appointing a new vice-chancellor is expected to be completed by May 1.
 
 A former vice-chancellor said the selection of an efficient vice-chancellor will be the biggest challenge before the search committee as well as the governor, considering that the credibility of the once-prestigious university has been shaken following the exams fiasco. “Careers of lakhs of students were damaged due to the prolonged delay in declaration of results. Of course, not just the vice-chancellor, even the state education department is equally responsible for the mess in Mumbai University,” he said.
 
 The former vice-chancellor further said fortunately for the university, both the governor and chief minister Devendra Fadnavis stepped in immediately after the “mess caused by lack of coordination and mismanagement at all levels” was brought to their notice.
 
 The governor issued Deshmukh a showcause notice, asking him why he should not be dismissed for his poor performance and delay in declaration of results. He was subsequently dismissed and charge was temporarily entrusted with Kolhapur University vice-chancellor Devanand Shinde.
 
 
