Trichy: An iconic banyan tree that stood testimony to various students’ movements and had shaped the identity of Periyar EVR College for over 75 years has been declared dead. This after irreparable damage was caused to the tree by a fungal attack, said a team of experts from Horticulture College and Research Institute for Women, Trichy who came to assess its condition on Tuesday morning. In addition to the fungus, termites have inflicted serious damage to it making its revival near-impossible, they said. Professor of agriculture entomology, R Philip Sridhar, said that Ganoderma parasite spread all over the tree through wounds on the tree. As it weakened the tree system, it started becoming dry and the termites started feeding on the dry wound resulting in its fall. The tree which was ailing for the past few years finally perished over lack of proper attention. The alumni of the college had taken up measures to revive the tree last year after a portion of the tree came down in heavy wind. “Experts from the agriculture department expressed hope of reviving the tree with adequate chemical treatment but there wasn’t any step either from the alumni or from the authorities that has now resulted in its death,” said a student of the college. Had there been timely intervention from the authorities, it could have been preserved for some more decades, said Trichy MP Siva, also an alumnus of the college. “A couple of old buildings in the college in dilapidate state are expected to meet a similar end because of the callous attitude of college authorities,” he said. Last year when the tree was on the verge of falling after going dry, Siva was among the first few alumni who came to its rescue and offered assistance to save it. Principal of the college S Rajendran said however that MP Siva didn’t turn up after offering help. “ They promised to take steps and we were under the impression that they will take care of the tree but nothing happened and we have now lost the tree,” he said. While the tree remains in the memories of every student of the college for the time spent under its green cover, converting the place into a monument in its memory by preserving its remaining parts is under consideration. Ku Pa Ganesan, a retired teacher from the college, has suggested converting the tree into a monument by chemically treating its remaining parts. The banyan tree has been existing even before rationalist EVR Periyar donated 9.5 acres of land to the government to raise a college over 50 years back. There were only two buildings and the banyan tree at that time. The college now spread across 52 acres where over 4000 students study in two shifts.