Some of his best movies are deeply rooted in reality. In real people and their lives which are complex, unpredictable and unsettling. He’s a filmmaker with a voice, who tells stories to make statements and open doors for conversation and debate. Even if that means confronting some alarming facts and cruel truths. Mehta believes, that’s the need of the hour. The National Award-winning director has trespassed various genres of cinema and made a sex comedy, too. That’s what makes him an interesting filmmaker with various shades, like the characters in his movies. With his next, the biographical crime drama ' ', based on terrorist  , coming up for release this week, he talks to us about the times of terror we live in, and tells us about his failures, flaws and his fighting spirit. Excerpts...

 
 Yes, Omar Sheikh was a part of 'Shahid', he appears in the scene where he is in prison with Shahid (played by  ). I was trying to make 'Omertà' since 2005, before I decided to make Shahid. Initially, we wanted Rahul Bose to play the role, but he didn’t want to do the film. Some actors were unsure about doing the film, because they thought, ‘We don’t know what your politics are’. So, it never got made then. But the research for the film continued and then the Shahid Azmi story came to me, which was easier to pitch, because it was the story of a hero. So that way, Shahid was a defining point for this film.
 
 
 The moment we completed shooting the last scene, Rajkummar got rid of his beard. For him, I think it was symbolic, it was a way of getting rid of the character. Usually, when I see the final copy of my film, I am more or less detached. Even when 'Omertà' premiered in Toronto, I didn’t watch the screening. I can’t handle watching the film with a crowd where someone is sneezing or chatting, it makes me mad. And I feel that my energy rubs off on the crowd. Once a film releases, you have no control over it, anyway. But it is difficult to detach myself from the stories that I deal with, because they are not merely films. They are issues that affect our daily lives. So, how can I detach myself from the life I lead?
 
 
 It’s a biography, and it is unauthorised, as I can’t get permission from Omar Sheikh, where I am portraying him as an out-and-out villain. It is an imagination of what transpired and what could have happened. So, from different versions of his real story and my research, I have culled out pieces of information and made my own truth. It’s like a journalistic exploration done in a thrilling format.
 
 
 The idea is to not make heroism hagiographic or justify villainy. I believe that a hero should not be portrayed as a saint and villainy should not be justified. These are two dangers, and I have not done that in my films. Shahid (Azmi) wasn’t a holier-than-thou personality, he had his own flaws and weaknesses. Similarly, Omar Sheikh is vile, and I have gone to the furthest extent to depict the violence within him and violence outside of him. I wanted to tell this story because there are people like him.
 
 
 I wanted this story to be out of my system. But in a way, it won’t ever leave my system, because there are deep states within Pakistan that harbour people like him. They create people like him and protect them. Until that state-sponsored terrorism doesn’t end, nothing will change. So, I have called them out and I have taken names. I have said that Pakistan’s ISI ( Inter-Services Intelligence) is totally complicit in such operations. And this is all factual, based on research. We refuse to acknowledge the war that is already raging; instead, we talk about eating biryani together. I am asked why I’m not exploring what creates monsters like Omar Sheikh. By doing that, I will be portraying him as a hero, and I refuse to do that and justify his actions. There is a sense of injustice that we all often feel. There are haves and have-nots all around us. Even in our own lives, there is a feeling of not being first-class citizens and of being marginalised. Many of us go through such feelings, but does that manifest into us becoming monsters? No! That manifestation happens because there is patronage. There is an entire network that patronises you and they are all hand-in-glove in creating elements like these. So, I think the important thing is to first clean up that system. We have stopped questioning things and this film will provoke you to think.
 
 
 Now, I want to become more fearless. I want to be fearless at 50 (laughs!). I believe that the only thing that holds us back from telling stories is fear. 'Omertà' was appreciated at film festivals, where there were also people from Pakistan in the crowd. Some of them are also friends who were upset with me as they felt stereotyped in some way. There was a gentleman from Pakistan, who lives in Canada, and he told me that he wasn’t too pleased with the film. Later, I met him in Italy and over a drink I asked him what the problem was. He said, ‘After making films like 'Shahid' and 'Aligarh', you are stereotyping people in 'Omertà'. So, I told him, ‘If I have made films like 'Shahid' and 'Aligarh', it means that my point of view is much wider. If there is a Shahid Azmi, there is also an Omar Sheikh. Why don’t you see that? I am not saying that all of you are like that. I am not targeting the community. I am targeting people like Omar’. We had that conversation, and over a period of a few days, we revived our friendship. He also saw the film with a fresh perspective. That’s what a film needs to do; it needs to open a dialogue. Even at the Hong Kong International Film Festival, a similar thing had happened. Someone told me that I have presented the American viewpoint of terror. I told them that this is something that the Americans are vocalising now; earlier, Pakistan was their strategic military partner. Now, given so many terrorist attacks in the US, they have begun to take a stance. I’m glad that now we are openly having conversations about this. We have spoon-fed our audience for too many years. We have fed them everything, right from the story, back-story to the message. We don’t leave anything untold for them to go back and think. We tell them, ‘Go back home feeling like you’ve seen everything and that you’re happy’.
 
 
 I have faced so many roadblocks that I have stopped seeing them as roadblocks. Now, if I don’t face them, I feel there something is wrong. These obstacles keep my fighting spirit alive (laughs!). It’s been 25 years since I did the show 'Khana Khazana', and even back then, I always knew that I wanted to make films. In 2002, I made a sex comedy called 'Yeh Kya Ho Raha Hai', then I made   and I also made a C-grade sex film. I have made all kinds of films and television shows. As long as the script excites me, I don’t mind making any kind of film. 'Simran' was an attempt to do something different, it had certain lightness to it, but yes, I could have made that film better. For years, I’ve been judged in different ways. I have been judged as a bad filmmaker and as a failure. I have been judged as someone who makes sex comedies and a filmmaker who tries to copy Ram Gopal Varma. I have had names thrown at me, but I don’t care. I will tell stories about the realities that I confront and the stories that excite me, even if it is a comedy. Now, I am planning to make a comedy with Rajkummar Rao.
 
 
 Well, I am unofficially the father of sex comedies in India, because I made 'Yeh Kya Ho Raha Hai' in 2002, which was a film inspired by American Pie. I introduced nine newcomers in that film. Post that, films like 'Masti', 'Grand Masti' and 'Style' were made. So, in a way, my film started off that phase. I couldn’t do another sex comedy after that because I didn’t get a script that was bang on (pun intended!) Unfortunately, comedy doesn’t come naturally to us and that’s why every time AIB and others like them make comedy videos, they are met with major opposition, because we are not used to seeing that flavour of comedy. There are so many English shows that I watch and it makes me wonder… if I cannot achieve that natural humour, then I am falling short.
 
 
 For me, commercial success is about making films within the budget. In that sense, 'Simran' was the only film in my career that overshot its budget. That will remain my regret and that is my failure. What I can control are the budgets and the story that I want to tell, because I cannot control the box office.
 
 
