BARNALA: Upset over the rising prices of diesel, farm organization BKU   on Monday held a protest against the Union government with bullocks. They alleged that the regular increase in the prices of diesel was pushing famers into traditional farming using cattle.

 The farm organization threatened to hold a major protest if the prices were not controlled soon. It also demanded complete loan waiver as promised by the   before polls and solution to the problem of stray cattle, which was causing lot of stress to farmers.
 
 The protesting farmers reached   deputy commissioner office and raised slogans against the central government. At present, the prices of diesel in Punjab are around Rs 63 per litre.
 
 “The frequent increase in prices of diesel is proving very dear to farmers who are feeling the pinch. Apart, from increase in prices by the Union government, even the state government is levying lots of taxes on it which has taken diesel out of the reach for farmers. We will hold a bigger protest if the prices are not brought down,” said farm BKU Rajewal president Balbir Singh Rajewal.
 
 He said that the Union government must keep it in mind that the regular increase in prices was not in favour of any segment of society, especially the farming sector. 
 
 “Farmers are already reeling under heavy debts and committing suicides and in such times the increase may bring the farmers under more stress,” Rajewal said, adding that they were also demanding complete farm loan waiver.
 
 Protest on debt waiver 
 
 Bathinda: Unimpressed by chief minister Amaninder Singh’s appeal to not hold protests demanding loan waiver, farm organization BKU Ekta Ugrahan on Monday started the five-day-long demonstration seeking complete loan waiver. The protesters accused the state government of forgetting its promise of complete loan waiver. Before starting the protests, the farm activists had also took out flag marches in various villages for a fortnight to mobilize support and collect rations.
 
 The organisation started the protests at deputy commissioners’ offices across the   region of Punjab, which will continue till January 26. The farm organization said it wanted the Congress to fulfil its pre-poll promise.
 
 Hundreds of activists of the farm organization assembled at DC offices at Bathinda, Mansa, Barnala, Moga, Sangrur and other places. The CM had last week made an appeal saying as the state government did not have resources to waive off all the debts of farmers, they should not hold protests.
 
 “The Congress had promised complete loan waive to famers before elections and got the major chunk of votes as farmers believed in its word. But after gaining power, the Congress relegated the debt waiver to back burner. For the sake of making a show, the government has waived off only a fraction of loans. It is not acceptable to farmers,” said organisation general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri. 
 
 
