HUBBALLI: Are you travelling on polling day by  ? Hold on. It’s suggested that you have an alternative in mind, even if you are travelling only for a short distance.

 As the   has taken out about 37% buses from the eight divisions of North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation ( ), public transport is expected to go out of order.
 
 
  
 
 The non-availability of buses under NWKRTC limits took effect on Friday itself. Mayur Patil, who travelled from Yalavatti to Hubballi on Friday morning, said that there was no bus from 9am. “As per the schedule, one bus has to pass Yalavatti at 9am and another at 10am. We waited for a bus from 9am to 10am and then we hired a tomtom to go to Chinchali village, where bus frequency is more, and reached Hubballi by noon,” he said.
 
 Pranati Patil, a student in Mulgund said she was unable to catch a bus to go to college due the heavy rush caused by the lack of buses. 
 
 “As the buses that were available had heavy crowd, it was difficult to catch a bus. Even the traffic controller was helpless to say anything about arrival of regular buses. In such a situation, NWKRTC should have given publicity about the low availablility of buses through the media much I advance. It has only posted notices at its major bus stands,” she alleged.
 
 Annappa Walikar, a vendor in Kalghatgi said, “NWKRTC pasted a notice only in the old bus stand in Hubballi but did not inform passengers from rural areas. Moreover, poll officials have kept a strict vigil on private tempos and tomtoms, because of which drivers are refusing to pick up commuters.”
 
 ‘Only reduced trips’
 
 In Hubballi division alone, NWKRTC has rented out 106 buses to the district administration and 25 buses to the police department. “We have not cancelled any schedules but have only reduced the number of trips by 10-15%. For instance, if 10 trips are in operation at a particular schedule, we have withdrawn only two trips,” said Ashok Patil, divisional traffic officer, Hubballi division, NWKRTC.
 
 A senior official at NWKRTC central office in Hubballi said that normally the corporation has 10% additional buses over normal operation. “We will ensure people won’t be affected by the situation. We will deploy night bus services for routine operations. As the number of passengers will be low during polls, there will be no much difference between demand and supply,” he said.
 
 
