NEW DELHI: The role of at least three lenders to   (JAL) —  , IDBI Bank and SBI — which are also lenders to the company’s insolvency hit arm  , has come under the scanner for allowing “fraudulent, preferential and undervalued” mortgage of over 750 acres to secure interest of the parent.

 On Thursday, the   (NCLT) had slammed the transactions, which saw Jaypee Infratech’s land parcels mortgaged without a clearance by some of the company’s lenders, including LIC, who had classified them as non-performing assets.
 
 The move will force JAL’s lenders to seek fresh collateral for the land, the market value of which is estimated to be around Rs 2,000 crore, although the resolution professional Anuj Jain for Jaypee Infratech had put a price tag of Rs 5,000-6,000 crore. Providing additional collateral is seen as a challenge for the company, as its finances are fragile, and it is finding it difficult to immediately comply with the Supreme Court directive to deposit Rs 2,000 crore.
 
 Bankers told TOI that the decision to mortgage the land was prompted by three common lenders — ICICI, IDBI and SBI — as efforts to restructure the loan were not being supported by LIC at that time. It was thought that LIC may not issue a no-objection certificate and the decision on the mortgage was to be conveyed by the common lenders. While ICICI Bank is the lead lender for JAL, IDBI Bank is the leader of the consortium of banks that have extended loans to Jaypee Infratech.
 
 Several bankers as well as sources in the Jaiprakash group have maintained that the transaction was common across companies, but NCLT did not agree with the contention. In its order, the tribunal said in two transactions, after the creation of fresh mortgage, additional loan worth Rs 41,718 crore was granted to JAL. In fact, the resolution professional’s decision to approach NCLT, alleging wrongdoing by Jaypee Infratech, was slammed by a ICICI Bank representative during a meeting in February. IDBI Bank and SBI representatives, however, did not comment on the move. On Friday, attempts to get a comment from ICICI Bank did not yield a result.
 
 Banks have an exposure of around Rs 10,000 crore to Jaypee Infratech.
 
