NEW DELHI: Disgruntled founding-member of   Kumar  , whose relationship with the chief minister and party chief   has been unravelling for over one year, has been axed as   in-charge of the party. He has been replaced with national treasurer   who reportedly enjoys the trust of the party brass. 

 Senior AAP functionary Ashutosh announced at a press conference on Wednesday that the party will contest the polls in Rajasthan with “full vigour”. It’s a key state for AAP where it wants to emerge stronger before the state goes to polls towards the end of this year. Ashutosh said “Vishwas was replaced because he was unable to spare enough time for the election preparations due to his preoccupations.” 
 
 Bajpai has handled AAP's election war room during the Punjab polls and Delhi civic polls. A former journalist, he joined the party in 2013 and was earlier the national media in-charge. “Bajpai has been in Rajasthan for over the past few weeks to assess the political situation and he has toured several districts and assembly segments,” said Ashutosh.
 
 The axing of Vishwas was finalized at a meeting of the political affairs committee (PAC), which is AAP’s top decision-making body, on Monday. 
 
 “Vishwas is a member of the PAC but he was neither invited to the meeting, nor informed about it,” said a statement from Vishwas’s office. Vishwas didn’t speak but took to twitter with his verses in order to convey that he will continue to speak the “truth”. Targeting Kejriwal indirectly, Vishwas tweeted another poem to convey that “Kejriwal has deviated from his ambition of Swaraj.”
 
 In the past one year, Vishwas had several run-ins with Kejriwal. The latest difference of opinion was on the apology to union finance minister Arun Jaitley. Vishwas, who is also an accused in the defamation case, refused to follow Kejriwal’s lead. Sources close to him said that the way he has been axed shows he was not made Rajasthan in-charge to further the prospects of the party but only to divert attention from the controversy sparked by AAP MLA Amanatullah Khan’s statement in 2017 accusing Vishwas of trying to hatch a coup against the party. 
 
 Vishwas had been then appeased by Kejriwal with the Rajasthan assignment even as Amanatullah was suspended, only to be quietly rehabilitated. He had initially displayed enthusiasm about the assignment which soon dissipated as the cold war between him and the party brass over issues regarding Rajasthan and other matters — like Vishwas not being listed as a speaker at the AAP national council meet — raged on. Vishwas had not been allowed to campaign in Punjab and differed with the party on the allegation of EVM tampering in Delhi.
 
 Things came to a boil early this year when AAP was selecting its three nominees for the Rajya Sabha polls. Despite a group of Vishwas supporters laying siege to the AAP headquarters, he was ignored with the party choosing two outsiders for RS. An angry Vishwas took on Kejriwal directly, saying he was "punished for speaking the truth”. He also alleged that once “Kejriwal had told him that he will finish him (Vishwas) but not let him become a martyr.” 
 
 AAP has claimed to have initiated the candidate selection process and seats where the party has a strong base have been identified.
 
 
