NEW DELHI: Objecting to the Centre’s move to dilute the May 2017 regulation of  , Union women and child development minister   has written to environment minister   flagging shortcomings in the ministry’s new draft proposal which was issued recently to replace last year’s controversial notification. She even questioned the rationale behind deleting the definition of ‘cattle’ and called many such changes as “very vague” and “unimplementable”.

 
 The May 2017 notification which banned the sale of cattle for slaughter in livestock markets had defined ‘cattle’ for clarity. It said the term included bovine animals including cows, buffaloes, bulls, bullocks, steers, heifers and calves. It also included camels in the category while seeking ban on sale of these animals for slaughter in such markets.
 
 The environment ministry’s draft proposal, issued in March for stakeholders’ comments, has, however, deleted definitions of not only ‘cattle’ but also of ‘fractious animal’, ‘poultry’ and even ‘inspector’ (for monitoring livestock markets).
 
 “Without the definition of cattle, the Rules are unclear as to which animals they may be extended to,” Gandhi said in her note to Harsh Vardhan.
 
 Referring to deletion of the definition of ‘inspector’, Gandhi, known for her stand on animal rights issues, said, “Monitoring these markets cannot be carried out without an authorised inspector, but these definitions have been removed making the rules unclear and unimplementable.”
 
 Though the May 2017 notification had not prohibited slaughter as the animals could still be procured for this purpose directly from farms, it had clearly defined ‘cattle’ putting cows and buffaloes among others in the category of the ban. Many states including Kerala, West Bengal and certain north-eastern states where cow slaughter is not banned had opposed the notification. 
 
 Since buffaloes was also included in the category, it had led to widespread opposition from meat traders and exporters who dealt with buffaloes. The matter reached various high courts and the Madurai bench of Madras HC had then stayed the notification on the livestock market rules. The   too had later in July last year stayed the controversial rules.
 
 “The May 2017 notification as such had never been implemented. The ministry has, however, brought a draft proposal to deal with the issue of animal cruelty. Various comments on the draft, including the one from Maneka Gandhi, have been received. All such suggestions are being examined”, said an official when asked about the WCD minister’s comment on the draft. 
 
 Gandhi also expressed her concerns over deletion of clauses relating to animal markets along state and international borders. She said, “The purpose of the Rules was to ensure that hubs of smuggling in the form of animal markets are not mushrooming alongside state and international borders. The deletion of such clauses thereby defeats the purpose of the Act and the Rules 2017 framed thereunder.”
 
 The previous rules prohibited establishment of animal markets anywhere within 50 km of state borders and 100 km of international borders to prevent cattle smuggling. 
 
 
 
