CHENNAI: The proposed visit of an all-party delegation to New Delhi to meet Prime Minister   to stress for immediate constitution of the   Management Board has run into rough weather with the PM’s appointment not forthcoming. Giving yet another twist to the tale, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami’s meeting with opposition leader M K   on Saturday to discuss the Cauvery issue threw up conflicting versions about the proposed meeting with the PM.

 Refuting Stalin’s claim that the PM was not willing to meet the TN delegation, state fisheries minister D   said the government was hopeful of getting a positive response from the   by Monday.
 
 “The CM sought an appointment with PM and is pursuing it. We deny Stalin’s claim that the PM is not willing to meet the delegation. Neither the PM nor the PMO has communicated anything like that to us. All we got to know is that the PMO wants the delegation to meet water resources minister before meeting the PM. We are hopeful of getting a positive response on Monday,” said Jayakumar, flanked by senior colleagues C Ve Shanmugam, O S Manian and R Kamaraj.
 
 Meeting Modi was one of the resolutions adopted by some 40 parties and 13 farmers’ representatives on February 22 in the secretariat, a week after the Supreme Court pronounced the Cauvery verdict. It was Stalin who proposed the meeting with the PM.
 
 The state ministers hurriedly came to the defence of PM and Gadkari, within minutes of Stalin telling mediapersons that PM had refused to give an appointment to the TN delegation. Stalin claimed the DMK did not see any purpose in meeting Gadkari, given the Union minister’s non-committal response to a query about setting up of the Cauvery Management Board, during his recent visit to Chennai.
 
 Law minister Shanmugam said Gadkari was not against setting up the Board. “All he said was it was an inter-state dispute and consultative process must be there to arrive at a decision,” said Shanmugam.
 
 Palaniswami is in a fix, also because his Karnataka counterpart Siddaramaiah is delaying a proposed meeting between the two CMs. Meanwhile, several lakh acres of paddy field are drying up in the districts.
 
 The three state ministers parried a query as to why the PM was not meeting the TN delegation when he had enough time to meet CM EPS and his deputy O Panneerselvam separately on several occasions in the past. “Only two weeks have lapsed after the court order. These questions will arise only after the SC-stipulated deadline of six weeks gets over,” was all that Jayakumar would say. Palaniswami assured the DMK leaders, Stalin and Duraimurugan that a special assembly session could be held on March 8 if no positive response was forthcoming from the PMO by Monday.
 
 
