Ninabali, Chimmanakkali,  , Paliya Nirtham, … “What are all these, bro?” 

 A young man asks his buddy, glancing at the brochure of Utsavam 2018, while taking a stroll on Durbar Hall Ground in Kochi on a Saturday evening. “Who knows? Something ancient but seems colourful,” says his friend, as they check out the venue that has been decked up to host Utsavam, the Folklore Festival of Kerala. Little do they know that it’s the 10th edition of the festival which showcases as many as 150 art forms, staged on around 28 venues across the State for six days.
 
 Whether the ‘new generation’ cares about their heritage or not, it provides sustenance for hundreds of artistes who perform at the festival. But for them, it’s not just a source of livelihood but their very life and love. Thanks to tourism department programmes, they aren’t facing a dearth of venues to perform but their concern is something else — finding younger generation artistes with a genuine love for these arts.
 
 Kottavattom Thankappan, whose family in Kollam has been the tradititional performers of the religious ritual  , says, “I have been doing it for decades and I perform with my family. My forefathers too were active in it. While it was a part of people’s spiritual practice in the past, now it’s limited to shows organised by tourism department and television. We have a couple of families that used to exclusively do it, in Kollam. However, their younger generation does not find it fascinating enough. We also don’t see a point in forcing it on them.”
 
 Similarly, Nasarudheen K M from Kangazha, who performed   at the event, says, “It is basically the oppana of men, and used to be a fun practice of boys in the past, especially in and around Kottayam. Now, oppana is still popular but vattapattu is limited to youth festivals and tourism shows. The aspects of money and exposure are taken care of, but I don’t see that alone luring enough of our next generation into it. People like me continue it as it has been part of my life for decades.”
 
 Some of the artistes say that the cultural and spiritual context which made these art forms importance has lost its relevance for the youngsters. Rajeev Venkidangu, who stages Darika Vadham and Mayoora Nirtham, says, “Mayoora Nirtham is performed on poikaal (fake legs) and it’s not easy to perform it with vigour. Also, you need to go on a vritham (fasting) before performing it. 
 
 “For any religion-based art form, there are many such rituals that go into making someone a genuine performer. Performers who respect and appreciate such factors are few in number while the audience notice only the colour and grandeur of it all.”
 
 Surendran Panikkar, who performed  , says, “Lured by the venues and prospects, there are many now who learn the artform watching videos and mimicking the costumes. We are nobody to stop them as anyone has the freedom to learn and practise an art form. However, how well such a group can get the next generation interested in it is questionable.” An artiste who wishes to be anonymous, says, “There are those who come into it thinking foreigners will pick them up if they appear ‘ethnic’ enough at tourism shows and win more stages, if they market themselves well. While that’s not completely wrong, when that becomes the main purpose, the soul of the art form is lost. The art form may survive but what is the point, if it is merely for show?”
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Undoubtedly, the folk festival is breathing new life into some of the dying and endangered art forms. K S Renjini, 17, from Kottayam, is the only surviving practitioner of the age-old art form called Nokku Vidya Paavakali. Renjini has been performing it for eight years and had learnt it from her grandmother Pankajakshi. “It belongs to the Velan community and it was performed at homes during Onam, in the past. Though it faded away, my grandmother continued performing and she even got a chance to go to France with it in 2009. That’s what urged me too to take it up,” she says. 
 
  
 
 The Mavilan community of Kasaragod had many interesting art forms that have ceased to exist. Dravida Kala Samithi, a group of art enthusiasts from the region, have been trying to preserve whatever is left. C Kunjiraman, a performer from the group, says, “That’s how we started performing mulamchenda and I have been doing it for about 20 years now. It was used in the past to ward off evil, and also drive away animals that stray into agricultural fields.”
 
  
 
 Gadhika is another spirit-cleansing dance performed by the Adiya community of Wayanad. P K Kariyan, a performer, says, “People have almost forgotten about it but I decided to pursue it, urged by my uncle. I also perform our art forms like Kumbala Nritham and Kooliyattam and am also training a few kids now in them, so that it survives.” 
 
