Margao: Labour minister   on Sunday said that the state government will soon come out with a road map to have a dispensary/clinic in each village having an industrial estate. 

 While several towns having industrial estates have dispensaries for persons insured with the   (ESIC),   said that efforts were under way to provide such medical care facilities for the rest of the industrial estates. 
 
 
  
 
 Khaunte was addressing reporters after inspecting the ESI hospital at   to review its handing over process from the ESIC to the state government. He said that the process of taking inventory was under way and that the transition process would be concluded by May 10-15, following which the 100-bedded full-fledged hospital would be formally commissioned. 
 
 The hospital, which was hurriedly inaugurated in March 2014 ahead of the general election by then Union labour minister,  , was yet to be handed over to the state government. 
 
 Khaunte went around the hospital and interacted with hospital officials and staff, and also interacted with patients undergoing treatment. 
 
 Stating that the five-storey building constructed at a cost of Rs 80 crore would provide state-of-the art medical care facilities to insured persons under the ESIC scheme, Khaunte said that doctors and nurses working in it would also be provided better facilities.
 
 “The state will thus be taking a lead to ensure safety and medical care of all industrial workers,” he said. 
 
 The hospital will also have an eight-cabinet mortuary unit, sources said.
 
 While the Margao ESI hospital currently offers specialized treatment in orthopaedics, surgery, medicine, and gynaecology, it has tie-ups with some private hospitals for treatments which are not available at the ESI hospital. While more speciality departments would be added to the hospital in due course, a senior hospital official said that the aim was to have all facilities in-house.
 
 Officer on special duty (OSD) at ESI hospital,  , was also present at the press briefing.
 
 
