BENGALURU: A 35-year-old   for nearly seven hours after she hanged herself following an argument on Sunday night. It was only after neighbours knocked on the door the next morning that Vijay   agreed to inform the police. 

 Kiran, who works with Wipro, married Tulasi Vijay four years ago. Both were from Andhra Pradesh - Kiran from Prakasam and Tulasi from Guntur. They have a three-year-old daughter who stays with her maternal grandparents.
 
 The couple had moved to a house in Bhuvaneshwari Nagar in south Bengaluru six months ago and their parents visited them off and on. This led to frequent fights between husband and wife, police said.
 
 "The duo had one such altercation between 11pm and 12 on Sunday. Kiran left the house in a huff to take a walk for 15 minutes. When he returned home, the bedroom door was locked from inside," a police officer said.
 
 
 
 
 When Tulasi did not respond despite repeated knocks, Kiran peeped into the room and saw a shadow of someone hanging from the ceiling. He broke open the door and found Tulasi hanging by a saree,” a police officer said.
 
 Kiran later told police he had rushed Tulasi to a private hospital in Padmanabhanagar in an autorickshaw. Doctors there declared her brought dead. He then claimed to have brought Tulasi’s body back home around 1am. Not knowing what to do, he lay the body on the living room sofa and sat next to it. The entire night passed, but Kiran did not move.
 
 “A neighbour came to see Kiran around 8am and found out about the suicide. Kiran had not informed anyone — parents, inlaws or police — about the matter,” the officer said. Kiran told police he was in a daze because of shock.
 
 On neighbours’ prodding, Kiran went to CK Achchukattu police station around 9am on Monday. “We went to the spot and shifted the body to Victoria Hospital for postmortem,” a senior officer said. Kiran is in police custody and investigators are verifying his account of the incident.
 
 “We are waiting for Tulasi’s parents to arrive by Monday night. We need to check the veracity of Kiran’s claim and will ask the hospital why we were not alerted about the medico-legal case,” an officer said.
 
 “We will register a case based on the complaint by Tulasi’s parents,” a police officer said.
 
 
 
