NEW DELHI: The fact that the   of parliamentary secretaries has been held illegal doesn’t mean “the past just evaporates”, the Delhi   remarked on Thursday while hearing arguments on behalf of 20 disqualified   MLAs.

 The former lawmakers claimed their appointments were declared bad in law by HC itself in 2016, arguing that they never held an office of profit (OoP).
 
 But a bench of Justices Sanjiv Khanna and Chander Shekhar disagreed. “The fact that it was held bad in law doesn’t mean the past just evaporates. Fact is you did enjoy or you were holding the post for a period. You can’t deny that. We are concerned with your appointment to the post and its effect,” the bench said, responding to the ex-legislators argument.
 
 A division bench of HC on September 8, 2016, had set aside their appointment as parliamentary secretaries on the ground that they were appointed without the concurrence of the lieutenant governor. 
 
 On Thursday’s hearing, HC also tried to understand the second tier of argument by the MLA’s who contended their tenure as PS can’t be termed as OoP since they never received remuneration, monetary benefits or perks such as official vehicles, among others.
 
 The MLAs, who have now entered a plea in the high court against their disqualification, maintained that the Election Commission (EC) did not consider the aspect of what benefits they had derived while ruling that they held offices of profit. 
 
 “Real issue is that you held such an office. Capacity to yield profit or pecuniary gain was there, it is a different matter you didn’t take any benefit,” the bench underlined when senior advocate Mohan Parasaran said that no pecuniary benefit was received by the lawmakers while they worked as parliamentary secretaries. 
 
 The court stressed that the decisive test as laid down by the Supreme Court to conclude if a person held an office of profit is the power of appointment, that is, who has the authority to appoint that person, apart from the office’s “capacity to yield” benefits.
 
 “The other factors come in later. The emphasis is more on the power of appointment, and if exercised, would it create a conflict of interest,” the court said, explaining that to decide if a post had the potential to yield gain, the power of appointment has to be examined, since as parliamentary secretaries the legislators become a part of the government.
 
 The observations of the bench and the submissions on behalf of the MLAs came during the nearly three-hour hearing of the legislators’ pleas challenging their disqualification.
 
 
