NAGPUR: To revive works of city writer and poet  , a three-day Hindi drama festival named after him is being organized by Rashtrabhasha Parivar from April 13 to 15 at Rashtrabhasha Bhavan on North Ambazari Road. The venue used to be the writer’s workplace. 

 Conceptualized by theatre actor and director Rupesh Pawar with Shantanu Shrivastav, Vasant Tripathi and Ninand Nagarkar, the festival aims to highlight the style and theatre trends developed by Karade whose wrote in Hindi.
 
 The festival will open with Karade’s street play ‘Ishwar ki Atamhatya’. “His forte was street plays and his theatre group staged many plays like ‘Hahakaar’, ‘Aarti Bhrashtachari ki’, ‘No. 13 Prasad’, which gained immense popularity,” said senior journalist and Karade’s close associate  . 
 
 “He was an employee of Reserve Bank of India and a writer too. He wrote during the eighties and nineties and his stories, poetry and dramas dealt with social and political issues prevalent in those time,” said Chandrayan who has in his possession two of Karade’s manuscripts, ‘Apney Apney Morchey’ and an untitled one. “He had a keen sense of social undercurrents, was a feisty thinker and never compromised his thoughts,” said Chandrayan.
 
 Sadly, Karade left the city in 1995, and never returned. “His wife was a teacher at Saraswati Vidyalaya and he has a son too,” said Chandrayan. 
 
 A fall from his bicycle in 1981 had caused him a head injury and had affected his mental stability, said his close friend Nagdev Laghve. “But, he continued to work,” he said. 
 
 “His son Anup will also be present,” said Rupesh Pawar founder of Meraki theatre group which holds performances at Rashtrabhasha Bhavan. 
 
 “This year, we will felicitate Gajanan Sagdeo, a senior theatre artist and founder of Ábhinay’ group, on April 13. On April 14 there will be a poetry presentation and on April 15 illustrator Ashok Bhowmik will deliver the first talk in memory of artist Bhau Samarth,” said Shantanu Shrivastav, one of the organizers.
 
 The Schedule 
 
 April 13 
 
 Bhilai IPTA group to present play ‘Rai’ based on a story written by Telugu writer SMV Gopal Raju
 
 April 14
 
 Patna-based group Natmandap to present play ‘Narmedh’ based on two stories by Bhishm Sahani. Parvez Akhtar will direct the play
 
 April 15
 
 Jabalpur-based Vivechana Rang Mandal to present play ‘Nitthaley Ki Diary’ on stories by Harishankar Parsai. Arun Pandey will direct the play
 
 Time | 6.30pm 
 
 Venue | Rashtrabhasha Bhavan, North Ambazari Road, Ramdaspeth
 
 
