We were the first to report online that   will replace Swastika Mukherjee in   Dasgupta’s Crisscross. And now there is a further development — the musically inclined director has approached none other than Bollywood hitmaker   to score for his film. Even though the composer is busy with multiple Bollywood films, his company will be making the music for Birsa’s movie. 

 “Like Life... In A Metro, my film is about many lives... When I was discussing the film with my producer (Shrikant Mohta), he asked me if I wanted Pritam to do the music. My first reaction was, ‘Are you joking?’ Next, I remember taking a flight to Mumbai to meet Pritam. We have created a WhatsApp group and Pritam is supervising the music; there’s also a band in the film,” said Birsa. 
 
 The music director, who has his roots in  , tweeted: “All the best. Big hug. Looking forward. Best of luck to the entire team of #Crisscross (sic).” When we got in tgouch with him, he also confirmed the development. “My team is doing the music,” he told us.
 
 SVF co-founder and director, Shrikant Mohta said: “We at SVF, are always keen to have new partnerships on board for Bengal film industry and this time it's really big. Bengal's music industry will be proud to have Pritamda and we are happy to associate with him and JAM8, a platform hosted by dada for promoting new talents in music industry. We are looking forward to produce some great Bengali music in the coming days, starting with Birsa Dasgupta's Crisscross."
 
 
 The shooting of the film kicked off on Tuesday, which was incidentally Birsa’s mother Chaitali Dasgupta’s birthday. Crisscross is about separate tales of five women of completely contrasting behaviours who undergo crisis and introspection in Kolkata. The stories run parallel, each ‘crisscrossing’ the path of the other in this urban, slice-of-life drama. The clock keeps ticking, and each character has a personal mission to accomplish. Crisscross stars Nusrat Jahan, Priyanka Sarkar, Mimi Chakraborty and  , apart from Jaya.
 
 
