CHANDIGARH: Two vans filled with cash were taken out of   headquarters on August 26 last year, one day after dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh was convicted of rape by the CBI court in Panchkula. 

 The dera's IT head,  , had given these details to the Haryana police when he was questioned on why he had destroyed computer hard discs found in the headquarters. He had told the police that he had destroyed the discs because they contained CCTV footage, including images of the cash vans leaving the Sirsa campus.
 
 On Tuesday, a full bench of the Punjab and Haryana high court admonished the Haryana police for their "poor" investigation into this crucial piece of evidence and for not making concrete efforts to find out how the dera authorities managed to remove such a large amount of cash.
  
  
 The details emerged while a full bench of the court comprising  , Justice Augustine   and Justice Avneesh Jhingan was hearing the case related to the violence in Panchkula after Gurmeet was convicted on August 25 last year.
 
 Justice Kant asked police officials what had gone to investigate the reasons behind the hard discs being destroyed. Sirsa SP   told the bench that they had arrested Vineet Kumar for tampering with the computer and destroying the hard discs. The SP also produced Vineet's confessional statement.
 
 While examining the statement, the court found that Vineet had told the police that the hard discs were broken to destroy CCTV footage of the dera. In his statement, Vineet had told the cops that a senior  , Balraj, had removed two vans filled with cash from the dera a day after the violence. The judges also found that the police had made no effort to get more details about the cash.
 
 
 
 
 The judges also found that the police had made no effort to get more details about the cash.
 
 The HC bench observed, “Where has the cash gone? We have gone through the statements of I-T head. As of now, it would be suffice to assume that we are dissatisfied with the probe. Some of the questions were either not asked or cops were asked not to question. The quality of probe is far from satisfactory.”
 
 Speaking for the bench, Justice Kant gave “one more opportunity to the state police to look into the matter and to find missing links of this aspect of the case so that the investigation may be taken to logical conclusion”. Justice Kant also directed the SIT to take another look at the statements of the accused to see if further custodial investigation was required.
 
 
