In Christian-majority Meghalaya too, the BJP may emerge as a major player. Aware of this, the National People's Party (NPP) - an ally of the saffron party at the Centre and in Manipur - seems to be keeping a distance from the BJP. Until now, the NPP, founded by former Lok Sabha speaker PA Sangma, is non-committal on any possible poll tie-up with the BJP. The saffron party is likely to depend on Union tourism minister  , a Christian, in its battle for power in Meghalaya. 

 Desperate to retain Meghalaya, the Congress may cash in on the BJP's alleged ultra-Hindu campaign elsewhere in the country. Meghalaya chief minister   said his party would expose the 'underhand dealings' between the BJP and the NPP, which may go it alone in the election.
 
 Both the Congress and the NPP may give a tough fight to each other in Meghalaya's Garo Hills, to which both the chief minister and NPP president Conrad Sangma (PA Sangma's son) belong. Since the state has a history of giving a fractured mandate, many expect two regional outfits - United Democratic Party (UDP) and Hill State People's Democratic Party (HSPDP) - to play a key role in government formation.
 
 In Nagaland, social and political organizations have lately been seeking postponement of the election till the Centre and Naga stakeholders resolve the issue of Naga insurgency. The Naga Students' Federation, which is going ahead with its rally in support of the demand for an early resolution of the Naga crisis on January 23, said the Election Commission announced the election dates without paying heed to the wishes of the Naga people. 
 
 Political parties this time are against staying away from the election to avoid a re-run of 1998, when the Congress won the polls without any contest following a similar boycott. 
 
 The Naga People's Front (NPF), led by chief minister TR Zeliang, and the newly-formed   (NDPP) are likely to be the two main contenders in the election. The NDPP got a boost earlier this week when Lok Sabha member and former CM Neiphiu Rio joined it. This has put the BJP in a dilemma over choosing between the NPF, its ally for years, and Rio, who is seen to be close to it.
 
 Out of power for 15 years, the Congress began to reorganize itself in Nagaland only after Rahul Gandhi took charge of the party as president last month. Rahul is scheduled to address a meeting in Kohima later this month to launch the party's poll campaign in the state.
 
