GUWAHATI: Two incidents of suspected suicide over the last 24 hours by youths, allegedly due to failures in love affairs, have dampened the high spirit of Valentine's Day. While a couple reportedly killed themselves by jumping before a speeding train in Assam's Goalpara district, another youth in   was found hanging from the ceiling of his residence. 

  sources said they recovered the body of 25-year-old Biswajit   and Helen Nath from the railway tracks near Krishnai in Goalpara district, some 116 km from here, early on Thursday morning.
 
 "Preliminary investigation has found that the two were in a romantic relationship and were even seen together on Wednesday at a Shiva temple in the area,"   said. Locals informed police that they saw the couple coming to the area on a two-wheeler on Wednesday evening. Police have located and seized the two-wheeler.
 
 Police have also confirmed that both the families of the couple were aware of their relationship. 
 
 "There are reports that the couple possibly committed suicide due to some family issues. Further investigation will reveal more," added an investigating official, saying that police are also considering the angle that it might have been an accident.
 
 Another youth, identified as Nayan Das of Arikuchi area in Nalbari district, is suspected to have committed suicide following a 'heartbreak'. His friends claimed that he had recently broken up his relationship.
 
 However, in both the cases, no suicide notes were found by police.
 
 Assam has been recording a very high rate of suicides due to 'heartbreaks' in recent years. Since 2014, the state has recorded more than 1300 suicides in which the cause was found to be failure in love.
 
 Valentine's Day holds special import for many people for the connotations the day has with romance and love, but the state's brush with heartbreak suicides points to a deeper story.
 
 As per the   ( ), there were 3,231 cases of suicide in Assam in 2015, the latest year for which data is available. Out of the total number of suicides, 608 males and 279 females had killed themselves for reasons connected to love affairs, the highest in the country in 2015.
 
 In 2014 as well, a similar trend can be gleaned from the records. Failure to handle heartbreaks seems to have hit the state particularly hard this year as well. Assam had topped the countrywide list in 2014 as well, with at least 519 people committing suicide after being driven to despair because of unsuccessful affairs. 
 
 
