NEW DELHI: Incidents such as the recent incursion by a Chinese road construction party a km into Indian territory in Arunachal Pradesh’s   area highlights major security requirements along the   (LAC).
 
  The   and the   need better connectivity, logistical setup and adequate surveillance and communication devices for continued watch on China’s military activities and to facilitate quick responses. These requirements are important, because according to Army Chief General Bipin Rawat, China is exerting pressure along the LAC.
  
  However, the feasibility of employing any surveillance device or the Comprehensive Integrated Border Management System ( ) which is being examined by the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) for the LAC will have to be looked into because of the non-demarcation of the LAC, inhospitable terrain and lack of major power sources.
  
  
 
  Sources aware of Arunachal’s Upper Siang district explained that there is no motorable road beyond Tuting. “The LAC is located about 10 to 15 km ahead of Tuting. Without proper roads there, it takes close to seven hours to reach the LAC,” explained an officer.
  
  Army Chief General Bipin Rawat while addressing reporters in Delhi on Friday had said that the army’s focus has to shift to the northern borders. He added that priority is being given to those 73 India-China Border Roads (ICBR) where the threat is grave.
  
  Demanding faster mobility, the army in its first compendium on operational requirements stated that it wants robots to carry logistics to inaccessible posts. It also wants all-terrain vehicles and snow mobiles for the northern borders for such tasks. Hybrid vehicles are also another option, due to reduction in engine performance and freezing of fuel of existing vehicles. The Army also says that it wants drones with airlift capabilities of minimum 50 kg, because transportation of equipment by mules and porters is time consuming.
  
  Furthermore, the Army is working towards the movement of ammunition between sectors and of forces from the western to northern front.
  
  
 
  The site of the recent incursion is the ITBP’s area of responsibility. The ITBP’s surveillance of an area primarily involves sending regular patrols there, which is difficult in snowbound regions. Sources said that there has to be more employability of surveillance equipment along the LAC. An MHA official added that the ITBP is doing exactly that, including for communication devices.
  
  “Since the past six months the ITBP has been looking at implementing the CIBMS along the entire LAC. It first wants a pilot project similar to the two for the BSF being installed along the International Border (IB) with Pakistan. Location of the pilot project could be in Ladakh or Arunachal,” explained the official. The concept of the CIBMS is integration of manpower, sensors and command and control to improve situational awareness and facilitate quick response to an emerging threat.
  
  Sources said the BSF is helping the ITBP with technical knowledge and developing Qualitative Requirements (specifications) of the system for the LAC. “The CIBMS is currently being done on an experimental basis to understand what works best for border security. The government will have to take a call on whether more pilot projects are required or the main projects can be implemented,” explained an official.
  
  The ITBP is also procuring satellite communication terminals for the LAC, which is a better setup than mobile phones and High Frequency radio sets that have connectivity issues. Even the army wants to procure satellite based communication devices.
  
