MUMBAI: A Surat   has restrained a   woman from pursuing a divorce case in a US court against her husband.

 The couple’s matrimonial rift had turned into a trans-national jurisdictional battle over private international law; it is a “domestic body of law” to resolve legal disputes between private individuals who cross international boundaries.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 The 23-page order said that even if the wife wins in Vermont, the decree would not be executable in India “and if she remarries, maybe a non-Parsi, she would still be subjected to an offence of bigamy”. The husband would too.
 
 To avoid a situation of a “limping marriage”, the Surat court delved into provisions of the Parsi law and held that the concept of change of domicile has no applicability in Parsi marriage. “Irrespective of domicile, the marriage has to be severed lawfully by a divorce decree under a court set up under the PMD (Parsi Marriage and Divorce) Act,” said the court and added, “The court of Vermont, USA, is not the court set up under the PMD Act and this Act does not extend to the Vermont court.”
 
 The husband’s legal arguments are that the PMD Act, a   statute enacted for Parsis in India, intended to “separate Parsis marrying under this Act from the mainstream of   and to bind them to provisions of the Act when it comes to their divorce or dissolution of marriage”.
 
 The husband (52) from Carmichael Road in Mumbai, who also lives in Vermont, filed for divorce before a special court in Surat. In February, six months after his wife had moved the US court for divorce on grounds of cruelty, he challenged the jurisdiction of a Superior Court in the state of Vermont. His wife (48), also an Indian Parsi, lives there with the couple’s two minor children aged 12 and 14; the older child is a US citizen.
 
 Through his lawyers A Daver and M S Bodhanwalla, the husband sought what is known as an anti-suit injunction against his wife till his petition was finally decided in India. The wife, through her lawyer S P Nanavati, contested the Surat court’s jurisdiction. Her reply was that since “both are permanent residents of USA” and “domiciled” in Vermont after their marriage, the American court does have territorial jurisdiction and had rightly rejected her husband’s plea for dismissal of her suit in March. Her lawyer said the existing green card and a new business started by her husband show a clear intent to make Vermont their permanent home and hence domicile. 
 
 The husband had contended before the US court that since they were married in India according to Parsi Zoroastrian ceremonies, only the Parsi matrimonial court would have exclusive jurisdiction. His counsel said since their marriage was solemnized in Ahmedabad, the Parsi matrimonial court in Surat has exclusive jurisdiction. 
 
 In India, Parsis can fight divorce battles only before special courts set up under the Act. 
 
 Raising a legal tussle over the private international law, the husband’s counsel Daver said it was “not the same in all countries. There is no system of PIL which can claim universal recognition. No English matrimonial court can decide the matter on the grounds of English domicile”. The US court had proceeded on the basis of the country being her “choice of domicile”.
 
 The Surat court said though the wife had filed a suit on the basis of domicile, and even if it considers that the husband has submitted to its jurisdiction, a divorce decree from the US court would not be binding. 
 
 
