Nagpur: Fourteen-year-old Ajay Bati, who stopped attending school more than a year ago, was among the bunch of kids who were encouraged to take up education and become successful. Children belonging to underprivileged sections of the society were amazed when visually impaired teachers read out stories from Braille books to them. 

 In a bid to push such kids take to learning, a unique initiative ‘Footpath Shaala’ was organized by Upay NGO and Atmadeepam Society near Maharajbagh on Thursday, to mark Louis Braille’s birth anniversary. It was the first time ever these children heard of the Braille language and seeing people reading with fingers seemed mysterious to them. 
 
 The central idea was to make them realize about their abilities, said Jigyasa Chawaldhal, president of Atmadeepam. She said, “We wanted to show them that despite being deprived of eye sight, if people can work wonders through their willpower and determination, then why they should lag behind. The highly influential session did enlighten their minds.” 
 
 Ajay, who sew soft toys and made chandeliers to sell on the roadside, took a stand for himself and pledged to continue his studies. Speaking to TOI, he said, “I dropped out of school in Class IV owing to pressure of earning for survival and contributing at home. But now I see life differently and wish to achieve something big for which I need to head to school from tomorrow.” 
 
 Like Ajay, many others too expressed their desire to excel and serve the society. While Sanju Rathod wished to be a doctor, Jitesh Bati wanted to guard the frontiers to protect the country by joining the armed forces. 
 
 Many onlookers and policemen surrounded the shaala and wished best luck to the kids. Archana Srivastav of Upay said originally the session was to be executed in Santra Market area as an overwhelming amount of children are found begging there. But the situation following the ‘bandh’ on Wednesday led to change venue. 
 
 “We plan to continue this deed of giving back to the society as education is the key to shape a better future of our nation,” added Srivastav.
 
 
