CHENNAI: Chennai police on Friday morning busted a fake currency racket and arrested two people at Thiruvottiyur railway station while they were smuggling currency worth Rs4 lakh from Assam in the Chennai Central-bound Guwahati Express train. Police also seized five pistols and 20 rounds of ammunition from their possession. Preliminary inquiries revealed that the duo identified as Kamal and Pradeep, residents of Chennai, admitted to smuggling the counterfeit currencies and arms from Assam at the behest of racket’s kingpin Rafiq, who is serving his term at Puzhal prison. Police sources said a special team while checking a compartment of the Guwahati Express found Kamal and Pradeep walking on the railway track and followed them after finding their movement suspicious. The duo tried to run, but were overpowered after a chase. Police on checking the two suitcases of the duo found bundles of currency notes inside. After being interrogated by Q branch officials at the Vepery police station, the duo revealed that they had come to handover the cash and the firearms to a consigner in Chennai. Pradeep told police that he was an accomplice of Rafiq. Pradeep ran a cell phone shop and Rafiq was a cell phone snatcher. The counterfeit currency wing of the Crime Branch CID had arrested Rafiq alias Noorudin alias Ismail, 29, from Erukancherry and seized counterfeit currency notes, weapon and ammunition from him in 2014. Police said he is a habitual offender involved in many cases, including two counterfeit currency cases. He was arrested and detained in August 2013 and released on February 28, 2014. He arrested again in 2016. During his detention, he met Pradeep who was in jail for a chain snatching case. The duo hatched a plan to smuggle counterfeit notes from Malda in West Bengal. Police said Pradeep is suspected to have flown to Kolkata on a couple of occasions to meet a supplier of counterfeit currency. Rafiq had earlier used a person named Hameed to smuggle bags containing Rs4.5 lakhs and Rs8.9 lakhs in Chennai. Police sources said that the pistols smuggled by Rafiq were supplied to hired killers in Chennai.