GURGAON: The minimum temperature in Gurgaon settled at 6 degrees Celsius on Thursday, a notch above Delhi’s season lowest of 5 degrees. Over the weekend, however, the chill is likely to intensify and the minimum temperature is expected to dip further to 5 degrees in Gurgaon as well. 

 Visibility, in the meantime, remained poor all day as a thick haze hung over the city. An official at the Regional   Forecasting Centre (RWFC), Delhi, said chilly weather was likely to continue over the next few days. Mornings are also likely to see dense fog, which will lift during the day as the sun pierces through the blanket of haze, before shallow   returns in the evenings. 
 
 The official said that wind movement had slightly increased. “It is 7-8 km/hr currently. There is an incoming western disturbance system but it is not going to affect us. It will result in rain and snowfall at higher reaches in states like Jammu and Kashmir. We’re going to see fog for the next two to three days, though it won’t be as dense as it was a few days ago. During the morning hours, the visibility is going to be around 200-300 metres, but by afternoon, it will increase to 1,000-1,200 metres,” said the official.
 
 The official added that currently, there were all elements at play that trigger dense fog. “We have moisture content, low wind speed, as well as low temperatures. These are ideal conditions for the fog. When sun rises, the fog starts to dissipate and that is going to happen in the coming days,” the official said. 
 
 The fog also resulted in over 50 flights being delayed at IGI airport and over 100 trains were also running late.
 
 The Ridge station near Delhi University’s north campus was the coldest spot in the capital, recording a minimum of 4.1 degrees. Palam recorded a minimum of 5.6, Lodhi Road 5.4 and Ayanagar 5.3. Hindon, in Ghaziabad, had a minimum of 2.9 degrees.
 
 Delhi’s air quality, meanwhile, has improved over the last two days. It continued to remain “very poor” with the overall air quality index (AQI) recorded at 362 on Thursday. The average PM 2.5 and PM 10 levels were hovering around four times the safe standard with the CPCB’s central control room showing readings of 234 and 400 micrograms per cubic metre respectively at 8 pm. The safe standard for both these ultrafine particles is 60 and 100 micrograms per cubic metre.
 
 Delhi’s most polluted location on Thursday was Anand Vihar with an AQI over 450, while DTU, Punjabi Bagh and Mandir Marg were also recorded in “severe”. 
 
 
