HYDERABAD: Tension between professors and assistant professors at the state-run Gandhi Hospital, which began on Tuesday night following the state cabinet's recent approval to increase the retirement age of faculty in teaching hospitals, from 58 years of age to 65 years, peaked on Wednesday. 

 
 As tempers flared, the city police had to be rushed in to bring the situation under control between both conflicting parties - the Telangana Government Doctors Association (  - Gandhi unit), with associate and assistant professors as members, and the newly formed Telangana Government Medical Professors Association ( ), that comprises professors.
 
 While the proposal to enhance the retirement from 58 to 65 years of age, is supported by TGMPA members, TGDA members vehemently oppose the proposal. 
 
 Their reason: an increase in the retirement age of professors will put their promotions on hold for at least five to six years. They also fear this will stall new recruitments. 
 
 On Wednesday, TGDA members held protests at the hospital, while 54 associate and assistant professors went on mass casual leave. This boycott of duties, however, did not impact patient services. 
 
 "The protesting members have agreed to attend to emergency cases in casualty. There are 314 doctors in total, of which 54 have gone on leave. It will not impact services," said Dr P Shravan Kumar, superintendent at Gandhi Hospital. 
 
 Later, a group of representatives from TGDA met the Governor and handed over a memorandum. 
 
 "The professors have asked for enhancement to the proposed age of retirement, for older members constituting 10 per cent of the teaching faculty. Enhancing of the retirement age could be detrimental to the rest of the 90 per cent of the teaching doctors, because there are instances of assistant professors getting recruited while others go on to retire, in the same cadre, despite holding over 10-15 years of service," the letter stated, requesting that the approval be rolled back. 
 
 The association members later said they will continue to be on leave and hold protests, unless they receive assurance from the authorities about the decision being revoked. 
 
 
