Chennai: The   of   and   Command (CINCAN) did not attend the   programme organised by the Union territory administration on January 26. A letter from his office, in response to the invitation, cited certain “protocol violation” as the reason.

 “Republic Day is a ceremonial occasion which requires due adherence to protocol. On previous similar occasions when the issue of protocol was raised, it was intimated that the same is being finalised and will be promulgated in due course. In the absence of promulgation of protocol, the CINCAN will not attend the same on January 26,” read the letter dated January 25 and signed by Lt Col A Banerjee, deputy provost marshal for commander-in-chief.
 
 It is rare for an armed forces command chief to refrain from attending the Republic Day programme where armed forces assume importance.
 
 Sources said that, as per protocol, precedence should be given to the commander-in-chief of armed forces and chiefs of other service staff after lieutenant-governor in saluting the flag, arriving for the ceremony and departure after the ceremony. However, in Port Blair this is not followed and the police are accorded the priority before armed forces chief. 
 
 A former navy officer, who had held regional command said usually protocol was not violated. “On most occasions, the head of police force being the one who organise the ceremony arrives early and salutes the flag. Probably this must have been construed as violation. As per the rank, the Lt Governor of the Union territory is not senior to commander in chief of armed forces in other parts of India. Only in Port Blair he is senior to the commander-in-chief. In other states too, protocol says that when receiving a dignitary, in the order of preference the Governor comes first, then the chief minister and then the heads of three armed forces services. Only after them state government officers are allowed to receive.” 
 
 Sources, however, said that the commander-in-chief was not in Port Blair on January 26. 
 
 It is a practice that army, navy and air force will send their staff to find seating arrangement before attending a function. If it is not followed, the organiser will be intimated to change it as per protocol. However, the letter shows that it was not being followed in Port Blair on earlier occasions leading to absence of the commander-in-chief. 
 
 Port Blair administration or the commander-in-chief’s office could not be reached for comment.
 
 
