CHENNAI: Using his father’s ‘stature and achievements’ to strike an emotional chord with   and party cadres,   working president   in a statement elaborated on the efforts party president M Karunanidhi took to resolve the inter-state   dispute and other measures to help farmers.

 
 DMK, he said, has decided to celebrate Karunanidhi’s 94th   with public meetings, beginning with   districts on June 1 and eventually cover the entire state over a period of one month. Karunanidhi’s birthday falls on June 3. Having staged several protests on the Cauvery issue and with DMK working president M K Stalin undertaking a padayatra across delta districts, the party decided to start the birthday celebrations from Karunanidhi’s native Tiruvarur district.
 
 In a letter to party cadres on Monday, Stalin recalled “the important role” Karunanidhi played in the past in choosing Presidents and Prime Ministers of the country. “With a mere nod and his opinion, he helped make Prime Ministers and Presidents. No wonder that when the Constitution and democratic norms are under attack, he comes to the mind of political leaders cutting across party lines, who are making a beeline to his residence in Chennai to enquire after his health and receive his blessings,” said Stalin. It is now nearly two years since Karunanidhi retired from active  .
 
 On Karunanidhi’s contribution in helping resolve the Cauvery issue, Stalin said his father had several times ensured that the Mettur dam sluices were opened after initiating talks with Karnataka chief ministers or Prime Ministers. “He was responsible for getting the tribunal award gazetted. Even during the drought years, his friendship with Karnataka chief ministers helped to get Tamil Nadu Cauvery water,” said Stalin. 
 
 For the sake of farmers, he introduced free power and also set up the farmers’ market (Uravar Sandhai)to do away with middlemen and this was emulated by several states, he said. “After he took charge as chief minister he waived all cooperative loans,” said Stalin. As a parting shot, to enthuse cadres to celebrate Karunanidhi’s birthday with enthusiasm, Stalin said, “though Karunanidhi belongs to the entire country, he is our own leader”. 
 
