GURUGRAM: The   has submitted a detailed project report (DPR) for a grade-separated   underpass near   and an elevated unidirectional U-turn near DLF Phase 2 on NH-8. 

 The DPR has gone for approval to the NHAI headquarters in New Delhi. It is expected that tenders will be issued in another 15 days and work on the project will start end-April.
 
 Initially, NHAI had taken out a detailed feasibility report (DFR) of the project, to decide if this project was worth undertaking or not. 
 
 Ashok Sharma, project director of NHAI (Gurugram), said, “The DPR for the project has been submitted to NHAI headquarters. Tenders will be issued soon.”
 
 According to NHAI, the U-turn underpass at Ambience mall will be 377m-long, with a four-lane, grade-separated U-turn exiting from it. Similarly, the elevated U-turn near DLF Phase 2 will be 455m-long, three-lane, and grade-separated. According to NHAI, “The elevated U-turn near DLF Phase 2 will be similar to the unidirectional   at Iffco Chowk. Commuters from Cyber City who want to take a U-turn back towards Delhi can do so at this point.” 
 
 It has also been revealed that the U-turn underpass at Ambience mall will get its own service road, which will be 559m-long and 7m-wide. Similarly, the elevated U-turn near DLF Phase 2 will get its own service road, which will be 490m-long and 7.5m-wide. NHAI has also decided to build bus bay shelters on both sides of the U-turn underpass. However, one striking feature missing in the project are the foot-over bridges (FOBs) which were earlier proposed by NHAI officials at both U-turns. The FOBs are missing in the DPR.
 
 Estimates have been made for the expected flow of traffic at the U-turn underpass and the elevated U-turn. The average ‘passenger car unit’ (PCU, a measure of traffic density) for the U-turn underpass at Ambience mall is estimated at 4,880 during morning peak hours. For the elevated U-turn at  , the figure is 3,727 PCUs during morning peak hours. 
 
 “A significant point in the DPR is there is no land acquisition involved. The U-turns are proposed on land parcels adjoining the existing NH-8, which are Huda green belts,” reads the DPR. The Haryana government and MCG have already conveyed their consent to share 50% of the project cost for the U-turn underpass, and 25% of that for the elevated U-turn. The rest of the cost will be borne by NHAI.
 
 
