No party or celebration is complete without a range of soft drinks that titillate our taste buds before temporarily quenching our thirst. Aerated drinks are harmful for our society specially the youth and are responsible for the epidemic of obesity. Such drinks are popular in all age groups, in fact; kids and teens consider such drinks to be an inseparable part of their lives. However, health conscious people have acknowledged the ill effects of consuming such sugar sweetened beverages; fondly referred to as soft drinks. Regular consumption of such drinks in the long run leads to weight gain and has an adverse effect on our cardiometabolic health (this term encompasses heart related disorders and metabolic disorders such as  ). Having appropriate recommendations that would help cut down the consumption of sugar sweetened beverages is thus the need of the hour. Just like on a cigarette pack; there should be a warning printed on soft drinks “IT IS INJURIOUS TO HEALTH". 

 A team of researchers reviewed the studies that were conducted in the past to investigate the link between such drinks and cardiometabolic health. The results clearly demonstrated that consumption of such soft drinks not only promoted obesity but also spiked up the risk of developing diabetes and heart related ailments. More importantly, the association between sugar sweetened beverage consumption and cardiometabolic disorders was true irrespective of the existing adiposity (the amount of fat in the body). This ill effect of consuming sugar sweetened beverages is primarily a consequence of adverse sugar metabolism that is triggered in the body. 
 
 Sugar sweetened beverages although soothing to the taste buds, are harmful for our body, especially when consumed regularly. Obesity compounded with an increased risk of heart problems and diabetes are some of the most prominent health issues that can be attributed to these drinks. People who savor such drinks must therefore take these ill effects into consideration. It would be beneficial to give up on such drinks but one can definitely start by gradually decreasing the consumption of such soft drinks. 
 
 
 
 
 
