GURUGRAM:   will be read as usual in Gurugram on Friday, across 76 open spaces where congregations gather every week, but this time with a duty magistrate overseeing security at each site.

 The Gurugram administration took this step on Thursday, besides asking police to make adequate security arrangements, in the wake of local   vowing not to allow namaz at open spaces. Last Friday, members of these outfits chased away prayer congregations at various places, shouting slogans like ‘Jai Shri Ram’ and ‘Bangladeshi wapas jao’.
 
 The administration has been in talks with various groups, including a committee of 15 Muslims that has been formed to reduce the number of open sites where namaz is read, but decided to maintain status quo and allow   at all 76 sites because there was no consensus on the new sites that are to be officially picked.
 
 The Hindutva outfits, buoyed by the chief minister’s comments that namaz should be read in mosques and idgahs rather than in the open, had on Wednesday put forward more demands before the administration — that the number of open sites for reading namaz be restricted to five, ensure they are not within a 2km radius of any temple, and conduct a citizenship check of people gathering for namaz. 
 
 Acting deputy commissioner Chander Shekhar Khare issued the order appointing duty magistrates late Thursday. “Municipal committee elections are scheduled on May 13 in three tehsils of Gurugram. In view of this, maintaining law and order is our topmost priority,” said Khare, adding the list of duty magistrates had been made public.
 
 In a survey conducted over the last few days, police had identified 76 open spaces where namaz is read every Friday. Subsequently, they worked on clubbing the sites and came up with a list of nine big open areas for Friday prayers. The committee of Muslims, comprising five corporate executives, five imams and five representing villages, had been asked to compile its own list of sites on Thursday. All day, police and the committee members held long meetings but could not reach an agreement.
 
 Late in the evening, the district administration issued decided to stick to status quo. “In the absence of consensus, we decided to main status quo for now and appointed duty magistrates for each spot,” said a senior administration official, adding the meetings were complicated because different groups had different leaders with different opinions.
 
 “All this started after an FIR was filed in the Sector 43 incident (after which six men were arrested for disrupting namaz on April 20 at that site). That issue could have been resolved locally,” said a member of the group representing the Muslim community.
 
 Vikram Singh Yadav of Sanyukt Hindu Sangarsh Samiti accused the administration of going back on its promise of designating places for namaz. “We were assured of appropriate steps. Now, the administration has allowed prayer at all places without taking us into confidence,” said Yadav, adding they will “observe the situation” on Friday and decide on their future course of action.
 
 
