COIMBATORE: The   on Monday sent a letter to the governor recommending the suspension of tainted Bharathiar University   A Ganapathi.

 “Based on the details furnished by the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC), we have sent the letter to governor Banwarilal Purohit, recommending the suspension of the VC from the post. We expect the suspension order to be issued on Tuesday,” a highly-placed source from the department told TOI.
 
 The process for appointing a new VC will commence immediately after the suspension order is issued, he said. “A search committee will be formed to shortlist a new vice-chancellor.”
 
 Meanwhile, Ganapathi and professor Dharmaraj of the Chemistry department, who were arrested by DVAC for allegedly receiving a bribe of Rs 30 lakh, moved the special court for DVAC cases for conditional bail. The bail plea will come up for hearing on Tuesday.
 
 DVAC sleuths have also started an investigation into the involvement of more university staff in the alleged racket. They are gathering information about director (in-chrage) of BU’s School of Distance Education  , who had allegedly approached complainant T  , an assistant professor of the department of Chemistry, demanding money.
 
 Mathivanan was acting as a mediator between candidates and the VC, DVAC sources said. “We have been collecting the call details of Mathivanan, vice-chancellor Ganapathi and Suresh. Ganapathi had appointed 72 people to the posts of assistant professors, associate professors and professors after receiving lakhs of rupees. We plan to interrogate them and a detailed inquiry report will be submitted to the court soon,” said a DVAC officer.
 
 Mathivanan, who had applied for two days leave, is expected to join duty on Wednesday. DVAC sources said that he might have moved the Madras high court for anticipatory bail. 
 
 The sleuths are also looking into the functioning of the university’s distance education centres based in other districts, states and foreign countries.
 
 Meanwhile, principal secretary of the higher education department Sunil Paliwal told TOI that after receiving many complaints about irregularities over the appointments at BU, the department had instructed DVAC in Coimbatore to conduct inquiry into the complaints.
 
 
