HYDERABAD: Ahead of his London visit from April 17, several Indian students organisations in the UK, on Sunday wrote asked Prime Minister   what measures he would take for swift and appropriate justice in the 'crimes of heinous nature against three minor girls in India'. 

 "When you did address the issues, you assured the nation that justice will be delivered. This is welcome. The question Prime Minister, is, When, and How?" Narendra   was asked in the letter written by the National Indian Students and Alumni Union, UK. A copy of the letter was also addressed to the   in UK. 
 
 Modi will be in India to attend the common wealth summit. He will also address a globally televised event on April 18. 
 
 Demanding justice in the rape and murder case, and also in the Unnao horror, the organisations said in the letter to the PM: "Extraordinary times demand extraordinary measures. When you arrive and address Bharat Ki Baat Sabske Saath, you can tell us what those extraordinary measures that you are putting into place to show that enough is not enough." 
 
 The organisations which have written to the letter include, NISAU, Oxford India Society, KCL India Society, LSE SU India Society, Warwick India Forum, Warwick Indian Society, Indian Society of Manchester, Salford Indian Society, Bharat Parivar UoB, Indian Society, Imperial College Indian Society, UCL Indian Society, NTSU Indian society, Queen Mary Indian Society, IndiaSoc Soton, Salford Indian Society, Indian Society University of Nottingham, Strathclyde Indian Students' Association – SISA, Sisa Strath, UAL Indian Cultural Society and SGUL Indian Society. 
 
 In the letter, the oranisations said they were writing the letter 'with a sense of great distress and horror over the recent crimes of heinous nature against three minor girls in India. In the brutal rape and murder of eight-year-old girl in Jammu and Kashmir, it was pointed out that a police officer had helped another police officer in concealing evidence. The victim was drugged and held captive for eight days in a temple. "Ministers in the state government have openly supported protests in favour of the accused," the organisations said. 
 
 In the rape of another 'devasting incident' in Unnao, Uttar Pradesh, the victim had even attempted suicide in front of the house of UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath because of the allegated inaction by the administration on her complaint she filed last year. 
 
 "The police allegedly refused to file an FIR against the MLA of your party. Instead, her father was reportedly jailed and tortured to death and was previously assaulted by the brother of an MLA, whom he had named before he died," the letter said alleging the involvement of the MLA in the rape. 
 
 The organisations said despite the mainstream media reporting on these two incidents, there was woeful silence from the Prime Minister on the issues until April 13. The letter also pointed out that a 11-year-old minor, this time in Gujarat, had been raped and murdered. "Her post-mortem has reportedly confirmed that she was raped for at least eight days. How long will this go on. When you say justice will be delivered, will it extend to created that justified environment where our women and children can exist freely?" the organisations asked the PM in the letter. 
 
 The NISAU said it was one of the many organisations that had been preparing and eagerly looking forward to the Prime Minister's visit to the UK next week. "We hope that by the time you arrive, you have sufficiently addressed these matters and implemented law and order such that justice and humanity can reign supreme," the letter said. 
 
 
