KOLKATA: Purulia could be to BJP what Singur and Nandigram were to   Congress before Mamata Banerjee came to power in 2011. At least that is what the panchayat poll results suggest. Purulia is one of the few districts, such as Malda, where the opposition seats taken together at the gram panchayat level is more than that of the ruling party. And in Purulia, BJP has gained a sizeable number of seats that Trinamool can’t discount.

 
  
 
 BJP, in Purulia, has won 636 gram panchayat seats, 155 less than Trinamool’s 791. Next to BJP comes the Left Front with 162 and Congress with 149. A total of 96 seats have gone to others. The party-wise tally at the gram panchayat throws up a strong multi-party profile with the opposition, particularly BJP. This is quite a different picture from the picture in Birbhum or Purba Burdwan, where the ruling party commands a near monopoly. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has also taken note of it. “Some of the independents and those from the BJP are keeping in touch with us. We will talk to them after the election process is over,” she said in Nabanna on Thursday.
 
 The comment hints at an outreach to those BJP and independent candidates whom BJP had publicly cajoled into their party fold, basically Trinamool dissenters peeved at being denied a party ticket. The chief minister also insisted on working together. “The opposition thought giving outside support to independent candidates would reap benefits for them. They were wrong,” said state minister Jyotipriyo Mullick.
 
 That’s not all. BJP’s inroads in Singur and Jangalmahal, two much-touted “achievements” by the Trinamool government, has prompted the ruling party to introspect on the reasons. According to SEC reports, BJP has won 28 gram panchayat seats in Singur, where the party didn’t even have a foothold a few years back. Likewise, in the tribal heartland of Jhargram, it has not only won 329 gram panchayat seats, it has gained majority in two gram panchayats in Belpahari. In Jhargram, it has also won two panchayat samitis. BJP’s inroads were not limited to Jhargram alone. It had also made some deep inroads in Purulia’s and Bankura’s tribal belts. This contiguous stretch, bordering Jharkhand, called Jangalmahal also accounts for four Lok Sabha seats.
 
 BJP’s inroads in   resonates its performances in the tribal-dominated north Bengal districts of Alipurduar, Cooch Behar, North and South Dinajpur and Jalpaiguri. Together, these throw up a state-wide pattern of increasing BJP clout in tribal zones. “We are on the right track and right pace. There will be elections after this and we will do better in those elections,” said state BJP president Dilip Ghosh.
 
 
