Chandigarh: Panjab University Campus Student Council (PUCSC) on Saturday released forms to train girls in self-defence. The students, wanting to pursue the self-defence course, can now procure the form, fill it and submit the same along with their library card number to the council members. This is the first time that the university is going to start self-defence training for the women students of the university.

 The students course would be given certificates on completion of the course. The proposal for the training session was mooted by PUCSC and the training would start from March 1, 2018.
 
 The sports department already has a coach and depending on the response of the female students, if required, they will rope in more coaches for training. The size of the batch depends on the response from the women students of the varsity. The council would try to accommodate as many students as possible, if the response is good.
 
 “We are certain that more and more girls would join the training but we have to apprise them that such training is going to take place. We are publicising this in every department to see the maximum participation,” joint secretary of the PUCSC Karanbir Singh Randhawa said.
 
 Randhawa added that self-defence training for women students on the campus is the answer to bring about the change. “I am glad that the sports office of the university gave a prompt and positive response,” he said.
 
 On the reason behind taking up such an inititiative, Randhawa said many students had also come up to him with the suggestion to start these classes for women. “University is a platform where you get the opportunity to learn things beyond the given curriculum. The women must take out some time from their schedules to attend these training sessions, being organized for them. While the university is safe, we have women from different states here, where crimes against women happen very often. Picking up self-defence training skills would be useful not just within the university but outside too,” added Randhawa.
 
 
