Vadodara: After months of dilly-dallying, the Baroda Cricket Association (BCA) has finally decided to construct the international cricket stadium at Kotambi on Halol Road. 

 The BCA managing committee on Wednesday passed a resolution to go ahead with the stadium project that has been hanging fire for years. The association will soon hire a project consultant to prepare a plan for making the stadium on Halol Road. 
 
 “We have decided to appoint independent project management agency to develop a feasibility report with a strict time line. The agency will study if the size of the land is enough for the stadium, permission for lights, parking, approach road and security. If needed, we may also acquire adjacent land,” said Snehal Parikh, BCA secretary (in-charge). 
 
 He added that the BCA will call another managing committee meeting after 10 days and discuss progress in the stadium project. The decision will cheer up cricket fans who have been waiting for an international cricket stadium in the city since years. 
 
 Despite the BCA acquiring the 74 bighas of land in 2013, there was little progress in the project due to delay in non-agriculture (NA) permission from the district panchayat.
 
 The association had even held ground-breaking ceremony for the stadium project in 2016 but the NA permission came only in October last year. BCA plans to build a state-of-art cricket stadium with a capacity of more than 40,000 spectators along with big dressing rooms and other sporting facilities for the players. A section of BCA was in favour of leasing the Reliance Stadium and refurbishing it but there was little progress in the proposal since last one year. 
 
 “The managing committee has decided to revise the fees of umpires and scorers. Also, a pacer bowling camp will be organized by former India and Baroda player Rashid Patel in the city. The prize distribution ceremony for winners and performers of 2014-15 and 2015-16 will be held in February,” said Amul Jikar, BCA treasurer. While the managing committee has included two new members, Khagesh Amin and Pranav Amin in its cricket improvement committee, it has also accepted resignation of Narayan Satham from the same committee. 
 
 Yusuf ignored for next four matches
 
 After his doping ban ended on January 15, cricketer Yusuf Pathan was available for selection to Baroda T20 team in Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy. But Baroda selectors ignored him for the next four league matches in West Bengal. Baroda all-rounder Swapnil Singh, who is injured, has been replaced by Smit Ghosh.
 
 
