CHENNAI: It may have followed Beijing, London and Copenhagen, but Chennai has become the first Indian city to join the   initiative to electrify its bus transportation system.

 C40 Cities, part the  , is a collection of 90 of the world’s “greatest” metropolises that are seeking to limit greenhouse gas emissions from goods and services their denizens use.
 
 Chief minister   on Wednesday signed an agreement with C40 Cities, declaring the state’s commitment to phasing in zero-emission public transport vehicles, a government statement said.
 
 This promise from the transport corporations on behalf of the Tamil Nadu government is an extension of the C40 Bus Declaration Act, a 2015 initiative from C40 cities to combat climate change.
 
 More than 25 cities across the world are now part of the Bus Declaration Act.
 
 Tamil Nadu officials said the agreement would help them procure electric buses at cheaper rates than conventional buses and create the infrastructure to operate them.
 
 “The collaboration will, over a period of time, reduce the prices of electric buses,” a senior government official said. “The price of an electric bus was Rs 2 crore eight months ago; now it has dropped to Rs 1 crore. We hope it will come down further when the technologies are [developed] worldwide.”
 
 C40 will also help Chennai prepare a road map to achieve 100 % electrification of its public bus transportation system by providing it with resources to aid in decision making, technology and to plan the way forward, the official added.
 
 State transport minister M R   had earlier visited an   fair organised by automobile manufacturers at New Delhi, and explored the possibilities of feasibly procuring and operating them.
 
 Manufacturers are currently working on two models: One which will be equipped with battery-swapping technology and another that will recharge its batteries for three-five minutes every 30km to 35km.
 
 TOI had reported that the state has expressed an interest in the second type because it would suit its need to add 200 buses to the MTC fleet, officials said.
 
 
