KOLKATA: The Left-wing politics may have remained a force to reckon with at  , but the once bastion of radicalism no longer patronizes violence. Nearly five decades after it cradled the students’ Naxalite movement in the city, Presidency is now believed to be a meeting ground for various political ideologies. Its current union belongs to the Independents Consolidation (IC) and the   is the main opposition. Extreme rightist groups have never been able to flex muscles on campus and they remain feeble. Even the earlier splinter groups seem to have disappeared.

 So, the smearing of Syama Prasad Mookerjee’s name on the Roll of Honour in the hallowed corridor took most on the campus by surprise as the act smacked of an extremist culture that was no longer the dominant political fabric at the university. Presidency, they pointed out, was no longer an institute that supported the defacement of statues—like it did in the ’60s and ’70s—though its support for Left politics remained intact.
 
 The blackening of Mookerjee’s name was just a “cheap” way to grab media attention and an attempt to “weaken” the fight against the “right-wing agenda”, they said. “Be assured that there are no extreme Left groups on this campus like the Radical (its members reportedly vandalized Mookerjee’s bust at Keoratala). There aren’t too many unions like that in   either. The Independents’ Consolidation (IC) and the SFI continue to dominate the political landscape here with   having some presence. It was always easy, hence, to gather information. This incident, at a time when VC Anuradha Lohia is out of town, was all very sudden and we had no inkling about it. That no one has come forward to take responsibility is rather mysterious,” claimed a university source.
 
 Some students admitted to the presence of a fringe group, comprising mostly PG students, that had recently distanced itself from both IC and AISA. “These students have been putting up posters and signing them as ‘common students’,” claimed an IC member, a former convenor of the student body.
 
 AISA, known to occupy the extreme Left space on the campus, was the first to condemn the incident, aware that it would be under scrutiny the most. “We understand there is discontent on how right wing politics is shaping in present-day India. But such anarchist methods of protest can never be supported. It needs a much more organized and sustained mode of protest. It is also strange that those behind the act are now hiding. It almost makes us believe this could be a counter ploy to gain right wing sympathy,” said Simanti Ghosal, an AISA activist.
 
 IC leader   said vandalism of statues was a “competition to break and spread anarchism”. “We oppose Mookerjee’s ideology. But such vandalism will only promote fascism,” he said. Echoing him, SFI’s Subhojit Sarkar said such acts only strengthened those against whom their protest was launched. “There is no end to this cycle of anarchy. Some extreme Left group might have been involved but then again, no innocent student should be harassed,” he said.
 
 Most students felt vandalism was unwarranted at a place that tried to highlight the achievers from the institution.
 
