LUDHIANA: An auto driver, 48-year-old Sarabjit Singh, who sold his newborn son for Rs 2 lakh and the Panipat-based woman involved in the deal have been arrested by the Ludhiana police. 

 The baby has been recovered and was handed over to his mother on Wednesday afternoon.
 
 The boy was bought for Rs 2 lakh by Madhu (50), who was planning to sell him for Rs 3 lakh to another woman who wanted a son after giving birth to three daughters.
 
 The auto-driver's wife Pooja (26) complained to cops on Tuesday morning that her husband had sold their newborn son for Rs 2 lakh. The police immediately arrested the auto-driver, who confessed to his crime.
 
 Sarabjit told the police that he had a debt of Rs 50,000 and needed funds to pay rent and loan installments for his auto-rickshaw. When his wife delivered a baby boy, he decided to sell him and approached two friends,   and Sohan, who introduced him to Madhu.
 
 Sarabjit handed over the baby to Madhu on Tuesday morning at the   and was paid Rs 2 lakh in cash.
 
 
 
 
 Ludhiana assistant commissioner of police Lakhveer Singh said, “This is Sarabjit’s second marriage and he is 22 years older than his new wife. Sarabjit, who married Pooja two years ago, already has three children from his first marriage and was not keen on having more children. Pooja, however, was happy to become a mother”. The police are not ruling out involvement of an organised gang in the sale of the infant and are on the trail of Sarabjit’s two friends who helped him sell the baby.
 
 
 The two men, who were paid Rs 25,000 each by Sarabjit from the sale money, are absconding.
 
 
 Pooja discovered her son was missing after she woke up on Tuesday. When she asked her husband about the infant’s whereabouts, he told her that he had sold him for Rs 2 lakh.
 
 
 Finding it difficult to trace Madhu in Panipat, the police made Sarabjit call her to Ludhiana so that his wife Pooja could see her baby for the last time. “We planned a trap for Madhu to come to Ludhiana with the baby. We forced Sarabjit to call Madhu to come to the Ludhiana Railway Station with the boy, telling her that his wife was crying and wanted to see her son for the last time. As soon as Madhu arrived at the railway station on Wednesday, the police arrested her,” the ACP said. The police have recovered Rs 1.3 lakh from Sarabjit, who had already spend Rs 20,000 from his share.
 
 
 
 
