NAGPUR: Air quality in at least six cities of the state is almost as four-to-eight times worse than the standards set by the World Health Organisation (WHO). Its air pollution database reveals that after Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra is on the verge of becoming one of the country’s most polluted states.

 Out of the 32 cities of India which were highlighted in the WHO’s data for the year 2016 released on Wednesday, six are from Maharashtra. Nagpur, which as per WHO is the most   of the state, is ranked 24th globally and 17th out of 32 in the country.
 
 Nagpur is closely followed by Chandrapur which is the 62nd most-polluted city in the world and 17th in the country. Next in line is Mumbai which is ranked 63rd and 18th, globally and nationally, respectively.
 
 After the state’s capital are Pune, Navi Mumbai and Solapur. The WHO’s database is based on the annual average of particulate matter 10 and 2.5. All the six cities of the state recorded PM levels which were dangerously more than the permissible limit set by WHO. 
 
 The organization’s permissible levels for PM2.5 in the air (annual) is 10 micrograms per cubic metre (mpcm). However, they were worst found in Nagpur with 84 mpcm — over eight times more than WHO’s permissible limit. Mumbai and Chandrapur both recorded PM2.5 levels at 64 mpcm — more than six times of the permissible limit.
 
 PM2.5 are particulate matter less than 2.5 microns in size and, when inhaled, they can enter deep into the lungs and bloodstream casing serious health ailments.
 
 WHO’s permissible limit (annual) for PM10, which are particulate matters with diameter of 10 micrometers and less, is 20 mpcm. All six cities are far from meeting this standard too. With 109 mpcm, Chandrapur’s PM10 levels were over five times more than the safe limit. 
 
 Earlier, the ‘Airpocalypse’ report released by environmental group Greenpeace India in January, had given a wake-up call to Maharashtra “before it becomes another Delhi”. According to the report, 67 lakh children (below 5 years) are living in polluted districts across the state. Moreover, none of the 24 monitored cities of the state are complying to PM10 annual prescribed standards.
 
 Sunil Dahiya, senior campaigner at Greenpeace India, said that Maharashtra is the second most polluted state in India after Uttar Pradesh. “The problem is not just limited to Delhi or other Northern cities. Air pollution in Maharashtra is only increasing,” he said.
 
 He also pointed out that Patna, Muzzafarpur and Gaya, which are among the highly polluted cities as per WHO, do not find a place in the  .
 
 Meanwhile, the Union environment ministry issued a release on Wednesday evening stating that measures are being taken to curb air pollution. “Action plans for 61 cities have already been received and concerned states have been requested to steer implementation of action plans in these cities,” it said.
 
 
