CHENNAI: A 22-year-old Finnish woman died of an apparent   overdose in a hotel in Triplicane on Wednesday morning, the city police said.

 Investigators, who identified the woman as Helea Nea  , have detained her companion Palomaki Aleksi Joel  , with whom she had arrived in the country on a tourist visa on November 23.
 
 Santeri, also a Finn, rushed out of Hotel Himalaya on Triplicane High Road, one of dozens of budget boardinghouses in the crowded locality, on Wednesday morning, 24 hours after the couple had checked in, an investigating officer said. A supervisor at the hotel informed the local police that there was an emergency: a guest was attempting to hail an autorickshaw to take his companion to hospital.
 
 “When we arrived, Emilia was prone on the floor in room 207 of the hotel,” the officer said. “Her body was swollen but had no visible external injuries. We found pills and other drugs in the guests’ baggage.”
 
 Policemen took the woman to Government Royapettah Hospital, where doctors pronounced her   on arrival. Forensics experts are testing the drugs police found in the room.
 
 “It appears, prima facie, that she died of a drug overdose but we will be able to confirm that only with an autopsy report,” the officer said.
 
 The Triplicane police registered an unnatural death under Section 174 of the CrPC.
 
 “Emilia and Santeri arrived in Chennai on Tuesday morning, after travelling to several cities across India, and took a room at Hotel Himalaya,” the investigating officer said. “Hotel employees said they left soon after and did not return till late in the night, when they appeared to be drunk and wobbled to their room on the second floor.”
 
 He said policemen took Santeri to   Government   after they discovered Emilia’s body because he too appeared to be under the influence of drugs and alcohol
 
 “We have informed officials of the Embassy of   in Delhi about the death,” the officer said. “The officials said they would arrange for representatives to come to Chennai immediately to assist the city police in the probe.”
 
 
