MADURAI : The statewide bandh observed by DMK and its allied parties in protest against the   police firing, received a lukewarm response with a majority of shop owners and commuters going about their business as usual, in Madurai.

 Apparently, no commuter was affected as public and private transport functioned properly. About 90 per cent of the shops remained open even as share autorickshaws, an important mode of transport in Madurai city, and mini buses plied service, dealing an unexpected to blow the bandh observers. 
 
 However, some support could be seen in the rural pockets of Madurai as 20 percent of the shops dowing shutters on the day. As the transport was not affected seriously, people faced no trouble in reaching their workplace.
 
 A couple of protests, one by DMK and another by AIDWA, SFI and DYFI, were taken out expressing solidarity with the protesters. A total of 99 people, including 11 women, were arrested and released as DMK along with VCK, MDMK and   staged a roadblock in Madurai.
 
 The police also arrested 23 people, including five women, who were taking out a protest at Periyar Bus Terminal. Incident vandalism were reported from   and Madapuram from Periyar Bus Terminal.
 
 While the protesters damaged a bus in South Marret Street, some unidentified men pelted with stones at a government bus and damaged the wind shied of the bus moving to Madapuram from Periyar Bus Terminal. Based on a complaint, a case was registered by the city police.
 
 Despite strong presence of supporters in Kanyakumari district for DMK and Congress, the bandh failed to garner as much support as expected in the district with only 30 per cent of the shops and commercial establishments remaining closed.
 
 Meanwhile, Kanyakumari district police booked three MLAs from DMK and Congress N Suresh Rajan, S Austin and J G Prince for staging a protest on late Thursday evening
 
 Only a minor support could be seen in Tirunelveli district as all shops, except for a number of bigger ones, functioned. MDMK leader Vaiko was arrested for protesting at Tirunelveli Bus Terminal junction.
 
 Vaiko said he did not buy the chief minister’s words that Sterlite would be closed. “I wanted him to visit the riot victims first,” he said.
 
 
