Sivakarthikeyan, whose film   with Mohan Raja released recently, talks to us about how he is able to keep his audience entertained, his strategy behind choosing scripts and his rapport with composer Anirudh. 

 
 
 Actually, I would say 10 years. If I include my television career, too, I have been in the industry for a decade. Looking back, I feel very happy. I never thought that I would ever reach this level in my career. Earlier, there weren’t many chances for a television show host to foray into silver screen. So, I, too, did not aspire much. But I’m lucky that I could be a hero in Kollywood, unlike many who ended up doing comedy and side-kick roles. I am lucky to have reached here.
 
 
 
 I would say that so far, my strategy has worked. Post the releases of all my films, I analyse whether my strategy has worked or not. Based on the performance of my movies, I plan my next venture. I try to space my projects in such a way that I don’t repeat the genres back-to-back. After doing a serious movie, I prefer to do an entertainer next. After Velaikkaran, I am doing Ponram’s film, which is an out-and-out entertainer. Besides, I look for one exciting factor in every project. If that’s there, I guess the movie will click. For example, in Remo, it was the female character, and in Velaikkaran, it was the serious content which was presented by Mohan Raja sir. The more the excitement factor is, the more the chances of audience lapping it up. And finally, I believe in evaluating the collective verdict of the audience. 
 
 
 
 While hosting shows, I made it a point to be casual and interactive and that had worked. Even though I had done script-based shows for years, I think somewhere, the ‘original’   had surfaced, which made the audience connect with me. Rather than the boy-next-door, people consider me son of their own kith and kin. Besides, my comedy is simple. I make sure that the humour that I crack is clean and enjoyable for everyone. I am a normal-looking guy and that is the main advantage. I don’t have any aura around me. I am very happy that I have a family audience, and I should thank my television career for the same. Many theatre owners have told me that I have a huge fan following among children. That’s a great blessing. While I don’t consciously choose scripts based on children’s interests, I make sure that I avoid certain things like edgy humour and vulgar scenes in my movies. I did two sports movies, Ethir Neechal and Maan Karate, as a marathoner and boxer respectively, which were so much fun, and children liked those movies. 
 
 
 
 I don’t think I’m successful yet. I don’t believe this is success; if I think so, I won’t be able to handle it. I am growing. And I’m taking the pressure of this growth seriously, and respecting it. I’m trying to learn and better myself.
 
 
 
 I’m trying to better myself in every aspect. That said, I have never done an emotionally moving full-length movie. I am taking baby steps in that direction now by doing such films in between my regular entertainers. So, that’s one challenge I’m looking forward to take up seriously. Similarly, action scenes are tough for me. In real life, I hate violence, and even while shooting, I’m always concerned about making one wrong or non-sync move that could harm me or others. Though I shot for three stunt sequences in Ponram’s movie, I need to improve a lot on the action front.
 
 
 
 (Laughs)... Nothing! I just listen to the director and follow his ideas. Since I am sweating it out on the set, I just chill once I am back at home.
 
 
 
 The songs in my movies are like the gift-wrapper. It makes the movie more appealing and pleasant. The songs help me reach out to people superbly. With Anirudh, this is my fifth film. We first met at an event in Coimbatore, much before both of us entered the industry. He was a part of a music band and a pianist. I was looking at him in awe since someone told me that he was Rajini sir’s relative. But he never had any airs; he was cool and we got to know each other. Later, we met while working in 3. But we became friends while doing Ethir Neechal. We often praise each other and make fun of the same. We call each other all kinds of fun names, from ‘bro’ to ‘baby’. Though he gives his best in every film, I think he gives me some extra special songs. 
 
 
 
 I was so impressed with Thani Oruvan that I contacted Raja sir and said that I would like to work with him. This was in December 2015. The story, script everything happened later. In 2016 December, we locked the script and in 2017 December, we released the movie. That way, Velaikkaran has a great December connection. 
 
 
 
 I have watched her movies like any other fan of hers. She is a very experienced and talented artiste; a great performer and she does it with so much ease. She is clear and has a great work discipline. It was a good experience working with her.
 
 
 
 I have hosted several television shows. But if I do that again, I might have to match the huge expectation from audience. That might put me under pressure and I won’t be able to do justice to my films and shows. Hence, it’s a ‘no’ for TV shows now.
 
 
 
 Oviya was my first heroine. But in between, I lost touch with her. I came to know of her mother’s death through the TV show. I felt bad that I didn’t reach out to her when it happened. Had I known that, I would have gone to her place and consoled her. I was very close to Oviya’s mother. During the promotions of Marina, she used to accompany us everywhere. Oviya, Sathish and I were always by her side. I was saddened to hear about her demise. I called up Oviya after her television show. She was my first heroine and if an opportunity comes up, I would love to work with her again.
 
