NEW DELHI: The Delhi University Students’ Union general  , Mahamedhaa Nagar, may lose her post as the law faculty has cancelled her studentship due to low  . The new semester roll doesn’t feature her name anywhere.

 Last month, Nagar’s name had figured in the detention list of students with low attendance, who had been barred from giving the exams. “Nagar’s studentship has been cancelled. Her name is no longer there in the second semester list as she didn’t fulfil her attendance in the first semester,” confirmed  , the law faculty dean.
 
 As per rules, a law faculty student must have at least 70% attendance in lectures, moot courts, tutorials and practical training course to be able to sit for a semester exam. Those who don’t have the required attendance are denied an admit card.
 
 Now, with Nagar’s studentship being uncertain, questions are being raised by opposition parties about her being the students’ union general secretary. DU rules state that only those who are students of the university can hold a post with the students’ union.
 
 Minakshi Meena, a law faculty student who had contested for the general secretary post, said that she had filed an   on January 8 with the law faculty and Delhi University to find out if Nagar had indeed lost her studentship. She had also written to the law faculty dean on the matter.
 
 “I feel Nagar is misusing her powers as she retains the   post despite no longer being a student. Her situation is dicey. Since she hasn’t got any interim relief from the courts, she should vacate her post on moral grounds,” Meena added.
 
 Kawalpreet Kaur of   also contended that Nagar should quit her post in the light of fresh developments. “Annexure IV, point VI of the Delhi University constitution clearly states that a student ceases to be a member of the union when he/she ceases to be a student. Give the case, Nagar can no longer be a DUSU representative,” she added.
 
 However, as Nagar has taken the matter to court, the outcome will depend on the high court judgment.
 
