Chennai: Eloor   might have put up its books on sale because it is closing down, but the city’s oldest lending library is still going strong.

 Started as a waste paper dealership business 55 years ago,   has managed to stay apace with technological advancement and changing reading behaviour over the years.
 
 Owner and proprietor, T Palani, and his sons, P Sathish and P Saravanan, who have now taken charge of the library spread across eight locations in the city, have seen the rise and fall of readership. But they say the reason their franchise remains popular is because the smell of books is irreplaceable to those who love reading.
 
 “My father used to lend books to those who liked to read for free from the scrap shop. It then occurred to him that charging a nominal fee would not be a bad idea,” says Saravanan. But to keep up with the Kindles and e-books, the library management has made efforts to remain accessible and relevant.
 
 The head office in Gopalapuram – where the three work throughout the week – remains open to customers every day, unlike the other seven branches which are closed on Sundays. “We are upgrading our website. Borrowers can take books from one library and return it to another,” said Sathish.
 
 Not only going  , the three have started ‘Soulful Homes’, a concept under which they set up libraries at residences for people at a cost of Rs 1,000 per month. “We provide 40 books and 20 magazines at a house for a month. Next month, the set of magazines and books are changed,” Sathish said. The library has also tied up with resident associations in townships and gated communities to run a library at their clubhouses at a monthly cost of Rs 12,000.
 
 But according to the owners, the lending library still remains relevant with a major chunk of their visitors being children and students. At the Gopalapuram branch, the first few shelves are dedicated to children and teens. “Several parents borrow books relevant to their kids and several young visitors flock the library on weekends, more than the elders. Most of our books cater to the young,” said Saravanan. “Harry Potter and Jeffrey Archer still remain popular, but Enid Blyton is not,” he said.
 
 At a refundable deposit of Rs 500, readers can borrow and read books at a fraction of the book’s price. The annual subscription charges for free readership begin at Rs 2,500 for a ‘lite’ reader, who can borrow three books at a time and return them when possible. With 44,000 members and nearly 7 lakh books across all branches, the library still faces challenges. “Renting a space, paying for books and hiring librarians, all are investment-centric. The property where we run our libraries are our own so we are doing good,” Sathish said.
 
 But has the emergence of social media and smartphones affected a reader’s attitude? “Yes. I have been borrowing books for the past 20 years but now find it difficult to spend time reading. Most of my time is spent in front of the television,” said a visitor to the library.
 
 
