LUDHIANA: The civic officials are all set to hand over the work order to the private agency for the much-awaited LED streetlights project and for that they have already done the trial run at four sites in the city. The officials were waiting for the MC elections and election code of conduct to get over for starting the work. The company will take nine months time to replace over 1 lakh ordinary streetlights in the city. The officials have found the trial run successful. 
 
 The company will handle the maintenance of the streetlights for almost 7 years. Through this project MC will save Rs 6 crores per annum by way of reduction of electricity bill and maintenance charges. Total cost of this project is Rs 44.38 crores. The company was finalised in the month of January this year but due to announcement of MC polls the department could not issue the work order and it could not be started. This project is under smart city mission. 
  
 The trial run was conducted on   (from railway crossing till bridge) and three different locations in   area. The company had replaced around 8-10 ordinary street lights with LED ones. The MC officials claimed that company will only replace around 1.07 lakh street lights while rest of the work will be done by them in which replacement of wires and painting of some of the poles is also included. 
  
 The MC Commissioner   shared that they had asked the company for conducting a trial run of the lights just to check the efficiency and difference between ordinary and  . He said that they are satisfied with the results as there was more brightness and lesser power consumption as well. 
  
 Notably, the LED street lights project has been hanging fire since 2008 when the   (PEDA) had proposed this project. At that time MC was supposed to replace around 80,000 ordinary street lights with LED street lights but due to official apathy and higher cost of project delayed the implementation of the planning. Despite conducting several trials in the past the department could not move ahead with the project. 
  
  
