KOCHI:   (DMRC) principal adviser E Sreedharan is doubtful of the efficacy of the current design of the flyover being constructed at Vyttila.

 Sreedharan in an emailsent outto Shameer Abudulla, joint convenor of Vyttila Junction  , on January 2 stated that the present plan “will not solve the traffic problems” at this busy junction. The Metro Man, who isconsideredone of thefinesttechnocrats in the country, pointed out that five roads converge at this junction, and from each road traffic moves in three directions, totalling fifteen directions. “However, the present flyover proposal would solve traffic movement in two directions,” he said.
 
 
  
 
 TOI in a series of articles, had exposed the ineptness of the current flyover plan in solving the traffic chaos at one the busiest junctions along the national highway in Kerala.
 
 TOI team had travelledthrough all the routes connecting Vyttila junction and found that the flyover under construction will notbe able to mitigate the traffic bottleneck here. “I had personally pointed out this to PWD secretary and also to the PWD minister in a letter about three months back. First of all this is not a job of Kerala government to undertake and spend money. National Highway Authority has to do it. A comprehensive proposal with three-tier handling of trafficwas submittedby me tothe then PWD secretary Sri Sooraj abouttwo-anda-half years back. Now that the metro work has also started there are severe limitations for a new comprehensive proposal for this Junction.” the letter said.
 
 Activists of the Vyttila Junction Vikasana Janakiya Samithi, which has launched a protest campaign against the current plan of Vyttila flyover, saidthejunction requires a signal freesystem which ensuressmooth movement of vehicles in all directions. “Flyovers constructed at Aluva and Edappally have proved to be a disaster. Such blunders should not be repeated,” saidVincent  , chairman of the samithi. He said the state government, PWD and other authorities concerned should hold discussions, take into consideration various opinion and then come outwith a comprehensive plan.
 
 The samithi said that vehicles coming from Tripunithura, Kadavanthra and Thammanam should be able to move smoothly to other directions. Similarly vehicles heading from Edappally to Kadavanthara, Thammanam and   should have free access to these regions through Vyttila Junction. The buses making an exit and entry to Vyttila mobility hub should be able to move freely. “The present flyover plan does not address such issues. There are schools, hospitals, government offices, religious establishments, several commercial and residential buildings within a 2km radius of Vyttila junction. The presenceof pedestrians and commuters and the commencement of   services in near future will add to the chaos if the government went ahead with the current plan.
 
 Samithi said since their repeated requests and complaints againsttheVyttila flyover plan fell on deaf ears, they have decided to hold a public meeting on Wednesday to draw public attention totheissue. Various religiousleaders will attend the meeting. “Let’s hope that a divine intervention as well as the involvement of the government willsave Kochi from chaos,” added John.
 
 Meanwhile, the office of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan acknowledged complaints sent by  . The undersecretary (CM’s computer cell) replied in email sent out on January 4, “The PWD principal secretary has been directed to take further action in this regard.”
 
