CHANDIGARH: The residents of a block in Sector 47D are forced to cover their noses during the day to ward off the smell of stagnant sewage that has been lining the entrance of their flats. 

 The sewage, which has been overflowing from different cracks and gaps around four manholes located at four corners of the residential block, is severely affecting the everyday lives of the people living in about 60 flats for the last 20 days. 
 
 Many residents from the residential block who have been dealing with a crucial case of choked sewer lines, also complained about sewage from their toilets and the bathroom sinks stagnating in their bathrooms, thus polluting the house with foul odour. Numerous residents also complained about not being able to cook food in their kitchens due to the foul smell. The kitchen drainage is also completely blocked in some houses. “These manholes are blocked since last 20 days and our lives have been really difficult because of this. This problem has been persistent here. The MC workers come and fix it and it crops up again after three months. There is no permanent solution to this.” said  , a resident of the locality. 
 
 The sewer lines, which have not been replaced for the last 20 years have become obsolete to accommodate the excessive solid waste that accumulates inside the manholes in the form of mud, dust among other pollutants. “The   to getting choked due to two broad reasons, the first one being that the pipes installed inside the sewer line are just 8-inch wide. This is extremely narrow and they get choked every now and then. These need to be completely replaced with the 12-inch wide ones. They are also really old,   and  . Secondly, the residents and the cleaners, who sweep the roads are also very careless. They sometimes leave the garbage at the mouth of the manholes, which slowly goes inside, thus choking them,” said Rahul, an MC worker who had been trying to de-clog the sewer lines since two hours but to no avail.
 
 The damaging activity by rats, who are present aplenty in the locality has also resulted in making the ground much more fragile. This makes the concrete base develop cracks and break from several places, exacerbating the residents’ problems. “A lot of us have already spent Rs 5,000 and got the concrete floor around the manholes refurbished once just six months ago. But, the rats have already hollowed it out again. The walls inside the manholes have also been severely eaten into,” said  , a resident who is the main complainant from the locality. 
 
 However, when asked about de-clogging the sewer lines, all of the MC workers spoke about bringing in a ‘pressure car’ being the last resort on Friday morning. They, however, refused to do the cleaning manually and referred to a Sector 32 incident where three workers died inside a manhole in the recent past. 
 
 “These manholes just need to be cleaned regularly, which used to happen after every six months. But, we are afraid to do it now on our own,” said an MC worker. 
 
 
