 is a very scoring subject if you have been consistent in practicing and paid attention in the class.

 The question paper of Algebra consists of two types of questions — short answer-type and long answer-type. Students should attempt all short question-type sums as they can score maximum marks in it. These questions are very simple and can fetch you up to 22 marks. The long answer-type questions have a relatively higher level of difficulty but can be solved with regular practice.
 
 While studying for the paper, pay special attention towards derivations, formulae and diagrams as these are the main ‘pain points’ where you lose marks. Rather than just memorizing the steps, you should always understand the logic behind it.
 
 For solving questions from ‘Higher Order Thinking Skill’ section, you must have a thorough practice of all the type of sums from the textbook. These questions are asked out of the textbook and test your application skills.
 
 Once you get the paper in hand, go through it and mark the questions you are completely sure about. You should solve these first as it is crucial in building up your confidence. I would also suggest students to solve all the questions despite internal choice as there is a ‘Best of 5’ marking scheme. 
 
 Many times, students forget to mention the attributes of variables used while solving word problems. So, you should always mention the unknown quantities and its unit in the final answer.
 
 You must make maximum usage of rough space in your answer sheet. This will enable you to quickly rectify your mistakes later on.
 
 The writer is president of  
 
 Paper snapshot
 
 Exam: Mathematics I (Algebra, SSC)
 
 Exam date: March 10
 
 Duration: 2 hours
 
 Theory marks on paper: 40
 
 Expert tips
 
 If you don’t recall the steps or get stuck on a problem, move onto the next one
 
 Manage your time properly and know how much time should be given to a particular question
 
 Mention the units and label your diagrams properly. This improves your presentation
 
 Last-minute revision
 
 Practicing every day is the only way to score good marks in mathematics
 
 Avoid sleepless nights before exam. Give rest to your mind and body sufficiently
 
 Avoid studying anything new a day before the paper. Stick to revising what you have been practicing for the whole year
 
 
