MUMBAI: The sessions court recently reduced the sentence of a 72-year-old man convicted of cheating his widowed sister-in-law.

 Instead of the four-year jail term,  , accused of gypping the Rs25 lakh his sisterin-law had received as compensation for her husband’s death, will now serve only two years in jail.
 
 The fact the accused had made every effort to get his brother’s body back from Singapore and also got his niece married were considered as mitigating circumstances by the court.
 
 Chauhan had moved the sessions court after a magistrate had found him guilty on charges of cheating and forgery and sentenced him to four years imprisonment in 2016.
 
 The court confirmed the conviction, but lowered the sentence. “In view of these mitigating circumstances, in my opinion, a lenient view needs to be taken while awarding the sentence,” the court said.
 
 The deceased   was the brother of the accused and husband of the complainant Buniyadevi Chauhan. Shambhunath worked on a merchant vessel and died on board in China on January 10, 2003.
 
 Buniyadevi has lodged an FIR on September 4, 2006. She said after her husband’s death, the insurance company in Singapore had sanctioned compensation. She had received Rs 25 lakh as part payment. The woman alleged she went with the accused and deposited the cheque in the   branch of a bank.
 
 The accused subsequently sent her to the village and kept giving assurances that her money was safe in the bank.
 
 In August 2005, Buniyadevi received a letter from the   in Singapore stating she was to receive an additional 4,000 Singapore dollars (about Rs 2 lakh) for which she was required to come to Mumbai to complete the formalities.
 
 The woman alleged when she came to Mumbai and questioned the accused about the money in her bank account, he admitted he had spent it.
 
 The woman further stated when she enquired with the bank, she was informed there was no savings account in her name. Instead, the accused had added her name in his account and had withdrawn the entire sum.
 
