NEW DELHI: The destination is certain. It’s the journey time that’s not yet known. That the world will one day move in self-driving cars is already evident in a series of functions that today’s cars have begun to perform without human intervention. Even in the models sold in India, there are cars that tell you the route and journey time, park on their own, start the wipers if it’s raining, switch on the headlights if it gets dark, warn you of moving objects at night, inform you of a school in the vicinity, detect dangerous lane departures and raise alarm if the driver is drowsy. You can control music volume by moving fingers in the air and telling your car what song to play.

 
 With   technology on its way, cars will start interacting with each other and become much more autonomous, giving you a lot of ‘me time’ on the road.
 
 
 
 
 Available in select models of companies such as Ford,   and   that are priced around Rs 10 lakh and above...
 
 
 
 The front lights switch on their own, as per the external conditions (in select Ford, Hyundai cars).
 
 
 
 Wipers start moving on their own in case of water or rain splashing the windscreen (in select Hyundai, Ford cars).
 
 
 
 Door unlocks on your touch and so do the outside rear-view mirrors if the key is in your pocket (in select Hyundai cars).
 
 
 
 
 Automatically unlocks and opens the trunk when the owner stands within 1m behind the vehicle with smart key (in select Hyundai and   cars).
 
 
 
 
 In the unlikely event of an accident, where the airbag is deployed, or the fuel pump deactivated, the technology can use a Bluetooth-paired and connected mobile phone to automatically make a direct call to the emergency services. Crucially, the system will supply vital information, such as your GPS coordinates, even if you are unconscious
 (in select Ford models).
 
 
 
 
 Plays music, reads news, tells the weather and navigates through voice (in select Ford models).
 
 
 
 
 Through climate control feature, the different passengers in the vehicle can have different temperature settings.
 
 
 
 Plays music, reads news, tells the weather and navigates through voice (in select Ford models).
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Available in select models of premium cars, such as Mercedes Benz, Volvo,   and Jaguar  , which cost above Rs 30 lakh.
 
 
 
 
 
 Detects signs of drowsiness in the steering behaviour and warns the driver. It takes note of over 70 parameters in the first few minutes of a drive to get to know one’s driving style. As the journey continues, it can detect steering corrections that suggest the onset of drowsiness.
 
 
 
 
 If a collision is imminent and driver fails to respond, the system will provide automatic braking, by reducing the car’s speed as much as possible (in Volvo cars).
 
 
 
 
 Recognises six pre-defined hand movements, including volume control, taking calls, reading messages and changing camera angle (in select BMW models).
 
 
 
 Using thermal imaging, this can identify people and large animals at a distance of up to 300m and if they pose a risk. A blinking red signal is displayed with a sound, and the brakes are primed for optimum responsiveness (in select BMW, Mercedes models).
 
 
 
 
 Detects when the vehicle is unintentionally drifting out of lane, and gently steers you back (in select Range Rover, BMW, Volvo and Mercedes models).
 
 
 
 Assisted with a display key that comes with a touchscreen, a driver can align the vehicle and park it into a tight parking space without being inside the car. The smart key also displays service reminders, cabin temperature, mileage range and fuel level (in BMW 7-Series, Mercedes E Class).
 
 
