Bengaluru:   GIC of Singapore has emerged as the frontrunner to buy a $200-million, or Rs 1,400-crore, stake in the tenanted office space unit of leading southern developer  .   is expected to pick up an ownership of slightly over 40% in the rent-yielding, 5-million-sqft office portfolio that counts  ,  ,   and   as tenants, people directly aware of the matter said.

 The Singapore investor has been one of the most active backers of Indian income-yielding commercial real estate where it has poured in more than $2 billion, primarily into office buildings and shopping malls. Last year, GIC bought a significant minority stake in the rental arm of the country’s largest developer   for $1.4 billion. 
 
 Canadian pension fund   was also in contention to buy into the business unit of the Bengaluru-headquartered Prestige Estates, which is listed on the   with a market capitalisation of $1.8 billion, or Rs 12,000 crore. When contacted, Prestige Estates declined to comment. GIC could not be reached for immediate comments over the weekend.
 
 Prestige, one among India’s top residential developers, has an overall rental portfolio of nearly 9 million sqft including IT parks, SEZs, retail and hotels — earning an annualised income of about Rs 720 crore. The deal with GIC mostly involves the office space portfolio located in Bengaluru. 
 
 In 2016, TOI first reported on Prestige appointing investment bankers to part-sell its commercial assets portfolio as it looks to retire some of its Rs 5,800-crore debt. The company had restructured its commercial business into office, retail, hospitality and residential verticals the same year.
 
 Prestige, seen as the country’s third-largest residential player after   and DLF, is aggressively building up rent-yielding commercial businesses, which have shown more resilience in recent years amid tepid growth for the real estate sector. The company expects to more than double this to Rs 1,400 crore by 2020 as its under-construction office buildings start rental yields and rents from existing offices see a spike. 
 
 The big realty players have all started paying attention to developing a tenanted office portfolio with stable yields in an otherwise stormy world of Indian real estate. Mumbai-based Lodha, which is gearing up for a much delayed IPO, said it plans to build assets under management of $1 billion in income-generating office buildings over the next three years. The world’s largest private equity investor   has pumped nearly $3 billion into the tenanted office space market, expecting to reap better returns in a fast expanding, service-oriented Indian economy.The impending stake sale in the rental arm is the fourth deal Prestige is set to do under its chief executive Venkat Narayana, who assumed office in August.The other three deals include the creation of an affordable housing platform with HDFC earlier this month, buying the stake of Singaporean property company CapitaLand in six of its retail mall assets and a property management company for Rs 342 crore, and purchasing about 67% in its group firm — which holds a land parcel of 180 acres in Bengaluru — from Red Fort India and landowners for Rs 324 crore.
 
 Prestige reported a profit of Rs 309 crore on an operating revenue of Rs 3,650 crore for the nine months ended December 31. The company’s shares ended marginally down at Rs 321 in a falling Mumbai trade on Friday.
 
 
