BENGALURU:   at the receiving end of the income tax authorities over the issue of what is popularly called the “angel tax” may have received a small breather with the Central Board of Direct Taxes issuing a circular on Tuesday saying that “no coercive measure” would be taken to recover the outstanding demand. 

 
 It also directed its officers that in all such cases pending with the department where appeals have been made, “necessary administrative steps should be taken for expeditious disposal of appeals, preferably by 31st March, 2018.”
 
 Abhishek Goenka, partner and direct tax head at PWC India, said while this was a welcome move, it does not strike at the root of the issue. “The provisions itself need rationalising, else we will continue with damage control. The law needs to be amended to remove the discretion provided to the assessing officers,” he said.
 
 KR Girish, founder of tax advisory firm KR Girish & Associates, also said the tax was an infructuous demand that was not based on any concept of real income. “The provisions themselves have to be struck off,” he said, and indicated that simply saying no coercive action should be taken just does not solve the fundamental problem.
 
 Under the tax – introduced in 2012 but which has been imposed with some zeal in recent times – any investment raised from domestic angel investors above the fair value of a venture as determined by the   will be taxed as income in the hands of the startup. The applicable tax rate is 30%.
 
 The CBDT suspects a lot of the funding is black money that is sought to be turned into white. But startups and many tax experts have pointed out that it goes against the entire principle of startup valuations – that funders pay a premium for an idea. “It is not income that is going into anybody’s hands,” said Girish.
 
 Pranav Sayta, tax partner in  , said the CBDT notification leaves it to the subjectivity of the commissioner of appeals. “The provision was introduced to check abuse and not to target genuine bonafide cases of investment. This current notification does provide relief. But the relief could fall short of industry expectations,” he said.
 
 A number of startups have felt harassed in recent months. The tax assessments have forced fledgling ventures to spend time and resources on dealing with them, when they should be focusing on building their business. Investors like   have said that many startups would shift overseas if this harassment continued.
 
 
 
 
 
 
