PUNE: Four members of an   has been arrested for stealing nearly 150 music systems from high-end cars. The gang preferred company-installed music systems as they fetch good prices in Mumbai’s grey market.

 Over the past eight months, the gang members have been involved in a series of automobile stereo thefts in Pune, Mumbai, Hyderabad, Bengaluru and places in  . They ran out of luck when one of the gang members — 41-year-old Mohammad Zahid Lohar, from Ghaziabad at UP — was caught by a special police team in Navi Mumbai on April 3. The team was led by sub-inspector Vishal Mohite, of the Vishrantwadi police.
 
 Lohar’s accomplices Sahil Jameel Qureshi (22) and Akhlaque Hussain Shaikh (32) were also arrested after they came to Dhanorie on a motorcycle in the evening. Qureshi even had a pistol and six rounds with him. The motorbike and Qureshi’s car, that was used in the crimes, were seized and a case under the Arms Act was registered against Qureshi and Shaikh. The trio’s interrogation led to the arrest of the fourth suspect — Shaukat Ismail Qureshi (45) — from Mumbai. Shaukat was the one selling the stolen music systems in the grey market.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (Zone IV) said, “Lohar, Sahil Qureshi and Shaikh have confessed of committing around 150 crimes in various states. Shaukat’s interrogation led to the recovery of 40 music systems. The gang members used to break car windows and dashboards to steal the music systems. We have detected 12 theft cases, including six at Vishrantwadi, two each at Yerawada and Sangvi and one each at Dighi and Khadki.”
 
 Sub-inspector Mohite said, “A special team was constituted after a series of complaints of music system thefts were registered in 2017-18. Investigations revealed that the suspects stole the audio systems on Saturdays and Sundays between 2am and 5am from parked cars.” He said, “We got the registration number of a car involved in theft cases after analysing CCTV cameras. When the car owner was summoned, he revealed the name of his relative Sahil Qureshi.” During interrogation, Sahil said he used to leave Mumbai, by car, at midnight and reach Pune in 2.15 hours on the weekends. Along with his accomplices, he stole music systems and returned to Mumbai.
 
 The gang will be in police custody remand till April 10.
 
 
