ATTARI: A   returned from a controversy-marred pilgrimage to Pakistan on Saturday. Instead of Baisakhi festivities, the visit made news this time around over the Pakistan government denying the jatha access to Indian diplomats, and a woman member ditching the jatha, converting to Islam, and marrying a man from Lahore.

 A jatha member, Surinder Singh, told TOI that Indian diplomats always met pilgrims to ask if they could be of any help. “This time, Indian diplomats were not allowed to enter Gurdwara Panja Sahib; this was highly condemnable. Second, Kiran Bala, by ditching the jatha and marrying a Lahore man, embarrassed all of us,” he said.
 
 On April 14, the Indian high commissioner to Pakistan was asked to return while he was on the way to   to meet Indian pilgrims. Bala, a resident of Garhshankar town of Hoshiarpur who was accompanying the jatha, embraced Islam and married Muhammad Azan on April 16, leaving behind her three children in India. “She should not have used the jatha to reach Pakistan. Everyone was mocking us,” said Amrit Kaur, on returning from Pakistan.
 
 She also complained of poor arrangements for the jatha.
 
 The jatha leader for Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), Gurmeet Singh Buh, said he would discuss the issue with committee president Gobind Singh Longowal. “Pilgrims should go to religious places with the sole intention of paying obeisance, not for personal purposes,” he said.
 
 Indian pilgrims were unanimous in the view that there should be thorough verification of men and women going alone to Pakistan with the jatha.
 
 Bhu, who led the Sikh jatha for the seventh time, said that they were allowed to meet a couple of officials of Indian high commission on April 15. Meanwhile, according to reports, the Lahore high court has directed Bala, now Amna Bibi, and her husband Muhammad Azan to appear before officials of the country’s   at Islamabad on Monday. Bala has applied to the ministry for a visa extension and Pakistan citizenship.
 
 
