Surat: The enforcement directorate (ED) officials carried out searches at billionaire diamond baron Nirav Modi’s sales office, diamond and jewellery manufacturing units in the city and at Surat Special Economic Zone (SurSEZ) on Thursday for his alleged involvement in the Rs 11,400 crore scam of acquiring fraudulent letters of undertaking from Punjab National Bank’s ( ) Mumbai branch to secure overseas credit from other Indian lenders. 

 The ED officials from Mumbai searched Firestar International Private Limited (FIPL) office in Belgium Tower and the jewellery and diamond manufacturing units at SurSEZ in Sachin. The officials fanned out in the city and at SurSEZ to search for documents and seize polished diamonds and jewellery stocks at the units. The ED officials searched 17 premises across India that belonged to   & Geetanjali Gems and seized stocks of  , diamond and precious stones worth Rs 5,100 crore. 
 
 Sources said the FIPL units in SurSEZ employ over 1,500 diamond polishers and jewellery designers and the companies have annual turnover of Rs 3,500 crore.
 
 Modi hails from Tharad taluka of Banaskantha. His father   had started rough diamond business in Belgium many decades ago. Nirav joined his father and expanded the business further. Nirav developed his own jewellery brand and his designed jewellery are auctioned in the auction houses by Sotheby’s and Christie’s. 
 
 In 2015, directorate of revenue intelligence (DRI) had raided Modi’s units in SurSEZ for alleged diversion of imported, duty-free, cut and polished diamonds and pearls to domestic market. The DRI had called it violation of import-export norms. It was alleged that imported diamonds were diverted to domestic market, while cheaper low-value diamonds were being used to make jewellery for export to sectors like Hong Kong and UAE. 
 
 The DRI had served show cause notices raising a demand of Rs 37.16 crore as penalty. Modi, however, deposited Rs 48 crore as duty demand, penalty and interest. He has also sent two letters, dated July 3 and July 23, 2015 to the commissioner of central excise and service tax in Surat to close the case.
 
 Firestar Diamond International Private Limited (FDIPL) was incorporated in 2006 as a jewellery manufacturing company for exports. It became a wholly-owned subsidiary of FIPL in March 2016. FDIPL’s export jewellery manufacturing facility caters to wholesale diamond jewellery business and is located in SurSEZ and Jaipur, whereas its retail jewellery designing and manufacturing unit is based in Mumbai.
 
 
