JAIPUR: In a bid to make companies recruit local people in a bigger way, the government is working on a policy that would provide enhanced incentives to employers.

 A committee has been set up under additional chief secretary (industries)   to frame guidelines within the framework of the   Industrial Promotion Scheme (RIPS)-2014 to incentivise companies recruiting people of Rajasthan origin.
 
 Though the state government already provides   generation subsidies of up to 20% on VAT and CST as part of the RIPS-2014, there is a feeling in the government that most of the new jobs created did not benefit local people.
 
 After coming to power, the   government had promised to create 15 lakh fresh jobs during her current tenure. In her Budget speech in February this year, she had claimed that over 13 lakh jobs have already been created.
 
 The new law in Rajasthan will not be unique in the country. Many states like Maharashtra, Karnataka, Arunanchal Pradesh and Gujarat have made policy announcements extending additional incentives to companies recruiting locals besides providing the standard employment subsidy.
 
 Sources in the industries department said that the proposed law on hiring local people was part of the overall change that the industrial policy of the state would undergo to align itself with the new GST regime.
 
 “The RIPs is being revamped to align to the GST regime. The clause on hiring local people is part of that overall exercise,” the official added.
 
 Even though he declined to comment on when the rules would be finalised, the proposal will be given top priority and submitted to the cabinet for approval.
 
 Employment generation is a big political issue and Raje has made it even bigger by setting a tall target of 15 lakh jobs. Even if she fails to reach that ambitious number, she should be seen as trying to reach there, said an industrialist from the state.
 
 But availing incentives offered under employment generation is not an easy task for the industry as they have to fulfill a number of requirements. The industrialist said that compliance was so cumbersome that not everyone claimed the benefits. This is why the new revised law being talked about is no guarantee that it will be attractive for companies to employ local people, he said.
 
 
