BHANGAR: Live bombs in buckets and drums stored deep underneath a sprawling mango orchard, 20 metres behind   leader   Islam’s   house, were recovered after the leader’s arrest on Friday night, leaving indications of what was in store for the rural polls in this South 24 Parganas belt on Monday.

 
 All this came to the surface after the shootout on the Save Land Livelihood Environment Protection Committee rally on Friday afternoon where a participant,  , was shot dead. Police entered the troubled spot tracking cell phones of local Trinamool leaders after chief minister Mamata Banerjee ordered arrest of the culprits. Soon after his arrest, Arabul was taken to Kashipur police station and later shifted to South 24 Parganas police headquarters at Baruipur before he was produced at court on Saturday. A Baruipur court has remanded the accused in police custody till May 22.
 
 Earlier in the day, villagers of Machhibhanga and the adjoining Bhangar areas took out a rally demanding capital punishment for Arabul and arrest of the other culprits involved in the shootout. A huge crowd later mobbed Arabul loyalist Alauddin’s house in the Machhibhanga village and set it on fire. In the afternoon, the Bhangar Andolan Samhati Committee led by Left Front chairman Biman Bose, CPM state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra and Bhangar movement spokesperson Sharmistha Chowdhury organised a protest rally from Moulali to Esplanade.
 
 Arabul pleaded innocence in court. “I have been framed. I didn’t know anything about the incident. I was not there,” he said. Arabul’s lawyer said the leader was at a Rajarhat mall during the incident, contesting the FIR that says Arabul was leading the Trinamool brigade. “I would appeal to Didi (Mamata Banerjee) to probe the incident and punish the real culprits,” Arabul said after the court order.
 
 Committee secretary Mirza Hasan rubbished Arabul’s claim. “Arabul was very much there in the village. Arabul, his brother Ajimul alias Khude, Arabul’s son Hakimul, all armed, were waiting near Polerhat at Kashipur. They opened fire on the rally from hedges and from rooftops. Hafijul fell on the ground bleeding profusely and died on the way to a health centre at Rajarhat. Such was the scare that the health centre authorities declined to issue a death certificate though doctors on duty pronounced him dead,” Hasan said.
 
 Arabul’s arrest came as a relief to Hafijul’s widow Sabira Bibi (30) and her neighbours. “We feared violence on the poll day. We can now expect a peaceful poll on Monday,” said Notunhat villager Sabir Molla.
 
 
