HYDERABAD: The rock formations in Peeran Cheruvu and Durgam Cheruvu are in danger of extinction. Unchecked construction and its associated blasting has taken a heavy toll on the rock formations which are unique to the city. 

 Hyderabad is the only city in the country with numerous rock formations. While some of the magnificent rocks and rock formations have disappeared in the last three decades thanks to urbanisation, the few that have withstood the onslaught of unauthorised constructions are now falling prey to continuous blasting.
 
 The  , which has been championing the cause of Hyderabad's rocks that took about 250 crore years to take their present shape, has expressed concern over the damage being caused to the formations at Peeran Cheruvu and Durgam Cheruvu. Society secretary, Frauke Quader, told TOI that these rock formations at both places abut water bodies. 
 
 "Construction activity is in full swing at both sites. Rocks are being blasted to level the ground. These rock formations are protected by Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority ( ) rules, but they are followed more in breach. There is also threat to the dargah at Peeran Cheruvu. The shrine is about 600 years old," Frauke Quader said, urging authorities concerned to protect the unique rock heritage of the city. 
 
 The rocks are a part of the city's natural heritage and history in particular and the Deccan plateau in general. Largescale volcanic activity in the geological past and the subsequent weathering by natural forces created the rock formations. 
 
 Heritage activists fear that these natural heritage sites would lose their protection once the   clears The Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains (Amendment) Bill, 2017. The Bill was recently passed by the  . Once the new legislation is adopted there will be no restriction on construction activity within 100 metres radius of heritage sites. The rocks are now protected under HMDA rules but the new Central law would supersede local legislation once cleared by Parliament.
 
 
