HYDERABAD: A Dubai-based worker from the city allegedly killed his 30-year-old wife, dumped her body, packed in a sack, near the railway track at   and fled to the   ( ) in the early hours of Sunday. Police found the body on Monday and issued a Look Out Circular (LOC) against the culprit, Akbar Ali Khan alias Hyder Khan, 33, from Farhat Nagar in Dabeerpura.

 A decade ago, Hyder married Zeba Naaz of King Koti and the couple has three sons. According to the police, Hyder married Zeba after divorcing his first wife.
 
  
  
 “Three years ago, Hyder went to Dubai to work as a labourer and he returned to the city four days ago. On Saturday morning, Hyder left his in-law’s house at King Koti with Zeba and after that the couple went incommunicado with the family,” Dabeerpura inspector   said.
 
 Worried about not being able to contact the duo, her family members approached Hyder’s family on Sunday. When Hyder’s family members said that they did not see the couple, Zeba’s family started searching for them at different places in the city.
 
 At 12.30am on Monday, locals alerted police about a sack with blood stains dumped between the railway tracks and a nala in Dabeerpura.
 
 Police shifted the sack to   and Zeba’s half-naked body was found in the sack. “The accused throttled Zeba and then bludgeoned her using a blunt object,” DCP, South Zone, V   said.
 
 Cops immediately rushed to Hyder’s house at Farhat Nagar and started making enquiries about his whereabouts. Family members of Hyder, including his brother Imran, said they have not seen him for the past couple of days as he used to spend most of his time at inlaw’s house in King Koti or in a separate room in the house at Farhat Nagar.
 
 During preliminary probe, police found out that at 9am on Saturday, Hyder left his in- law’s house with Zeba and then went to   near Golconda for shopping. He also took her to restaurants. Around 9.30pm, he went to the RGI Airport alone and boarded a flight to the UAE around 3am on Sunday.
 
 Police were yet to find out where Hyder killed Zeba and the exact reason for committing the murder. “He is an alcoholic and we suspect that some personal reason could be the reason for the murder. We are trying to get him back to India through our embassy. Police have written to the   (FRRO) and also issued a Look Out Circular (LOC) against him,” the DCP added.
 
