AHMEDABAD: It was a teary-eyed reunion of Janvi Shrimali, 5, a resident of Vankarvaaas, Chandkheda, with her parents on Friday evening. She was taken away by a woman from her grandmother and was later abandoned on New CG Road. The girl was taken to the Chandkheda police station by a Good Samaritan. 

 
 According to Chandkheda police,  , 60, was sitting near her residence at 10am on Friday when a woman in her late twenties approached her and mentioned that she can get the widow and senior citizen pension to the local residents. Vimla then brought together a few other senior citizens —  , 65, Vidya Vagheshwari, 70, and  , 70 — whom the woman got in an autorickshaw and took them to   temple. Vimla had brought her five-year-old granddaughter with her.
 
 “At the temple, the woman asked the senior citizens to remove their jewellery and collected ornaments worth Rs 52,500 from Punji. She then told Vimla to wait as she would visit a nearby hotel and get Janvi’s photograph done at 12noon. Vimla waited for half an hour but the woman, who claimed to have gone towards Uvarsad, never returned,” said an investigator.
 
 Sensing something wrong, Vimla immediately raised alarm and also informed her son and other relatives about the incident. After searching for Janvi in the vicinity, they approached police station.
 
 A C Patel, inspector of Chandkheda police station, said that they registered an   about the incident at 7pm and started a probe.
 
  “Meanwhile, a man came to the police station with a girl whom he found on New CG Road. The girl immediately identified her relatives present on the police station premises and it was soon established that it was the same girl,” he said.
 
 Investigators said that Janvi was dropped by the woman on New CG Road near Kanha Hotel. After seeing the girl alone on the road for a long time, Sukhbir Singh, running a seat cover unit nearby, asked the girl to sit near his unit. The girl was asked by the woman to wait for her grandmother. But when no one came to pick her up, Singh decided to approach police and got the girl along. 
 
 
