Malda/Behrampore: Sk Lucky of Bhagabanpur village was in Kuwait as a labourer for the last two years, un-able to attend family festivals or even Eid. But two days ba-ck, he returned home to vote in Monday’s   polls. So did Jakirul (who works in Patna), Nur Nabi (Tripura) and Enamul (Bhutan).

 Lakhs of Malda youths spread across India and abroad as migrant workers received calls to return home. Though only some could do so, all feel they will help decide who rules their villages for the next five years.
 
 “We don’t live in the village, but my family does. Who will look after them? We have a duty towards them,” said Bablu Sk, who came from Kerala. For others, like Tajul and Nabi, there is more to the issue than voting. “Our cand-idate had less manpower and money than others. So, we came a week earlier to campaign for him,” they said.
 
 Though there is no official record of how many labourers have migrated to other states from Bengal, state MLA Sabina Yeasmin puts the figure at over 3 lakh — mostly rural people who will play a major role in the election. “If not in zilla parishads, migrant labourers play an important role at the gram panchayat level, where winning margins are very small,” said Yeasmin, former minister of state for labour. No wonder many of the candidates sponsored the labourers’ journey home and pledged to compensate for the wages lost during this period.
 
 Candidates like Hasimu-ddin of Mothabari and Kalyan Mandal of Amrity said some of the labourers have to be paid fares, “but most come spontaneously, feeling the urge to be with their families”.
 
 Interestingly, Malda’s election fever was absent in Murshidabad, where most candidates won without a contest. More than 1 lakh migrants from Murshidabad are daily wagers in Delhi, Mumbai, Gujarat and Kerala, and a substantial number work in the Gulf. However, only about 10% are home — to meet relatives and take part in the “poll festival”.
 
 Jadupur resident Jalil Seikh, who has a son in Saudi Arabia and a son-in-law in Kuwait, said neither could come. “They cannot return home even for Eid as the fare costs Rs 60-65,000,” he said. Likewise, six close relatives of Anarkoli Bibi, Trinamool’s candidate from Jadupur village, are working elsewhere in India and did not bother to return just to vote.
 
 There are exceptions. Jahidul Islam returned to Dabkai from Saudi Arabia a few days ago. “I have to use my voting power to choose a three-tier system. If the candidates are good, they will spur development here for five years.” 
 
 However, labourers like Bishu Murmu from Habibpur, Hasibul from Kaliachak and Rakimuddin from English Bazaar say the excitement will last only a few days. After results are declared, they will again have to catch a train to Delhi or Mumbai. “Where is the work here?” one of them said, highlighting the fact that candidates could not assure them a living in their hometowns. 
 
 
