Chandigarh: India won 3 gold, 2 silver and 2 bronze medals on Day 6 of the ISSF Junior Shooting   at the Sydney International Shooting Centre on Saturday. Punjab and Haryana shooters were at the centre of India’s overall success.

 
 
 
 While Jhajjar’s 16-yea rold shooting sensation   captured two gold medals — in 10 metre air pistol individual and team events — her Haryana compatriot Anmol Jain clinched a bronze in men’s 10 m air pistol event. Anmol then partnered with Gaurav Rana and Arjun Cheema, who is from Mandi Gobindgarh, to win the team gold in 10 metre air pistol event.
 
 
 
 
 
 In the same event, the trio of Anhad Jawanda, Abhishek Arya and Adarsh Singh claimed the bronze. While Jawanda hails from Ludhiana, Arya and Singh belong to Faridabad.
 
 
 
 Trap shooters   and   pocketed the silver medal in the mixed team event.
 
 Coming off a double gold finish in her maiden senior shooting World Cup in Mexico, Manu first won the 10 metre air pistol individual gold and then claimed the yellow metal in 10 metre air pistol individual team event along with Devanshi Rana and Mahima Agrawal.
 
 The 10 metre air pistol individual final was a thriller, as Manu prevailed over Thailand’s Kanyakorn Hirunphoem in the last shot.
 
 After leading the match by as much as 2.2 points, Manu fired six consecutive shots outside the 10th ring, finding herself one point behind Hirunphoem with only two shots left to fire.
 
 Manu fired 9.6 and 9.8 in her last two shots, which was enough to overtake her rival, who shot only 7.9 in her final attempt.
 
 Manu finished with a score of 235.9 points, while Hirunphoem, who previously set a new qualification world record with 576 points, took silver with 234.9.
 
 The bronze was taken by China’s Lu Kaiman, who was participating in her first junior world cup, with 214.2 points. Manu’s teammate Devanshi took the fourth place with 195.3 points. The 18-yearold was also making her debut.
 
 Back home in Jhajjar, father Ramkishan Bhaker — a chief engineer in merchant navy — was tense even when his daughter had taken a 2-point lead.
 
 “When she fired six consecutive shots outside the 10th ring, I became a bit skeptical. I was following her performance on the ISSF website. But she managed to wriggle out of a difficult spot and the last couple of rounds went in her favour.
 
 “She was also lucky that her Thai opponent misfired in the final round,” Ramkishan told TOI.
 
 Inderjeet Jawanda, the father of Anhad, said, “We weren’t expecting a medal from the 10 metre air pistol event. This (medal) has come as a surprise for us.
 
 “Anhad, generally, features in 10 metre rapid fire pistol event. We have installed a shooting range at our farm house, where Anhad practices.”
 
 
