CHENNAI: The Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-corruption (DVAC) is investigating a complaint against former vice-chancellor of   (TNDALU) P  . Heis accusedof collecting bribes of ?20lakhto?30 lakhfor appointment of 30 assistant professors stating that the amount would be paid to ‘Garden’ and the law minister.   has not specified which ‘Garden’ it means or the name of the minister.

 The details are part of thefirstFIR registered on Thursday against Vanangamudi and five accusedfor misusing the15% NRI quota during admission. The others are Dr  , head of department of inter-disciplinary studies and director of distanceeducation department,  , associate professor in thedepartment of inter-disciplinary studies, V  , incharge registrar of TNDALU, S K  , deputy registrar incharge of TNDALU, and K Rajesh, administrative officer in theofficeof controller of examinations of theuniversity.
 
 The DVAC FIR states there was a complaint against the V-C and officials for allegedly collecting ?25 lakh to ?30 lakh per applicant and arranging false visas from foreign countries through middle men in East Asian countries for the 15% quota for NRI students in the university. “It was ascertained that rules were violated during Vanangamudi’s tenure in 2016-17. Of 93 students admitted, only 18 were in order. Several documents and certificates required for admission have not been enclosed,” theFIRsaid.
 
 NRI quota is given when thestudent’s parent or guardian is an NRIor an NRIsponsor submits a certificate indicating the relationship with the candidate. Nine documents such as NRI status certificate, NRI passbook, passport among others have tobesubmitted.
 
 In one caseof a student admittedin 2015for a three-year LLB (Hons) course, DVAC found the NRI status certificate and passbook, certificate of relationship, declaration by parents, eligibility certificate and affidavitby thestudent and parent were not available. DVAC noted that the rules and procedures were flouted for the NRI quota for possible pecuniary advantages. Vanangamudi was one of the co-ordinators for law admissions during 2013-14, while in 2014-15 and 2015-16 theothers were co-ordinators.
 
 In addition, Vanangamudi was re-employed as professor after retirement, which was a violation. “This is a clear case of conspiracy. The university has been cheated,” a DVAC official said. A case has been registered for corruption, cheating and criminal conspiracy by DVAC.
 
 
