MUMBAI: The body language and the approach with which the   trained on the eve of their match against hosts  , it was evident that the visitors plan to outbat the home team when the two meet in their   match at the Wankhede Stadium, here, on Saturday afternoon.

 
 All the Delhi batsmen, including skipper  , wicketkeeper-bat Rishabh Pant, middle-order batsman Shreyas Iyer, opener Colin Munro, played some lusty shots right from the word go. Nature of the deliveries notwithstanding, the Delhi batters played their shots. Some of them were agricultural and even unproductive.
 
 After having lost their opening two games against Kings XI Punjab in Mohali on Sunday and the rain-hit tie against Rajasthan Royals in Jaipur on Wednesday, Delhi seem desperate to make their presence felt on the points table. Perhaps that’s the reason why the Ricky Ponting-mentored team, is hoping to take the aggressive route when they take on Mumbai.
 
 Delhi’s gameplan, though, can backfire and put them completely off track. For, if their batsmen are going for the kill right from the outset, they may perhaps win the match. But if their batsmen play too many shots too early in their innings, they may pay the price. Here’s where the Mumbai bowlers will come into play. If they succeed in get a few early scalps, then Delhi will have to fall back on Plan B and re-strategize.
 
 The problem, though, with the Rohit Sharma-led Mumbai Indians is that their bowling hasn’t quite taken off in the 11th edition of the IPL. Barring legspinner Mayank Markande, who has been a revelation so far, no bowler, including pacer Jasprit Bumrah, has impressed. After two narrow losses in their first two games, Mumbai will hope that their bowlers answer the call of duty responsibly.
 
 Other than their bowling, another concern for the hosts is the fitness of all-rounder Hardik Pandya. Pandya came to the ground on Friday evening in what was an optional training session, but looked a bit rusty. He trained for about 30-odd minutes during which he bowled a few deliveries and pouched a few catches.
 
 
