Nagpur: Motibagh workshop (MIBW) of the South East Central   ( ) will be manufacturing around 3,000 bio-toilets in 2018, which will be installed in all the trains across the nation. 

 Chief workshop manager PS Khairkar said, “The aim is to install bio-toilets in every train by December 2018. Last year, we manufactured 2,500 bio-toilets and we have increased the number by 500 this year. Next year, we plan to manufacture 4,500 bio-toilets.” Khairkar was talking at a press conference held at MIBW on Tuesday. 
 
 “Indian Railways also buys bio-toilets from other manufacturers but the MIBW is the first   workshop of the transportation behemoth of the country. It mostly works on prototypes and special cases of bio-toilets such as for guard van or other toilets along with conventional and non-conventional toilets,” he added.
 
 MIBW manufactures bio-toilets along with inoculum, which is used for degrading the waste. Every bio-toilet consists of around 180 litres of inoculum which bio-degrades the waste and excreta into methane and water. 
 
 The MIBW has tied up with the Defense Research and Development Organization (DRDO) to manufacture eco-friendly toilets for the Railways.
 
 The workshop has also developed infrastructure to manufacture bio-toilets along with a separate inoculum generation plant. “Earlier, we brought 40,000 litre of inoculum from DRDO Gwalior and since then, we have started adding 40kg cow dung and 80 litres of water in it every day. The mixture gives us 120 litres of inoculum every day, which is then distributed to the Railways,” said Khairkar. MIBW estimates to create 1,28,400 litres of inoculum by December 2018.
 
 MIBW has modified the P-trap of the bio-toilet and introduced S-trap which will reduce the stink. “S-traps are now introduced in bio-toilets so that water level will be managed which will reduce the odour. Proper ventilation will also be introduced in the toilet,” said Khairkar.
 
 Talking about the motto behind introducing the concept of bio-toilets, Khairkar said, “The idea is to improve hygiene for Railway passengers and the employees. The bio-toilets will also help in saving crores of rupees.”
 
 Bishwajeet Saha, works manager, and Anuj Kumar were also present at the meet. 
 
 
