GHAZIABAD: A committee headed by the divisional commissioner of Meerut, Prabhat Kumar, allotted Rs 20 crore on Tuesday for revamping the sewage disposal system in   and supplying the township with treated water from the Ganga. 

 The sum will be released from the infrastructure development fund, which accrues from an additional surcharge of 2% on stamp duties paid on each property registered in the district.
 
 The revamping work will be undertaken by the Ghaziabad Development Authority (GDA), which is in charge of municipal function in Indirapuram township. The committee includes the Ghaziabad district magistrate, the GDA vice-chairperson and the municipal commissioner, apart from other officials. The committee had met on Tuesday on the sidelines of the board meeting of the GDA. At present, a case pertaining to improper sewage disposal in Indirapuram is underway at the   (NGT). The case has been filed by the Federation of Apartment Owners’ Association (FedAOA), which has alleged laxity by the GDA in ensuring proper sewage disposal in the township.
 
 “When sewer pipelines had been laid in Indirapuram, the township was projected by GDA for a low-density population. Over the years, the GDA has allowed it to become a high-density area. Revamping work on sewage disposal system must be undertaken to keep in view the requirements for next 30 years at least. The GDA should also ensure that sewage discharged from township is treated properly. The township is also grappling with improper solid waste disposal,” said FedAOA president Alok Kumar.
 
 A proposal to construct a new solid waste management plant in Indirapuram was deliberated upon in the meeting of the board of the GDA. 
 
 “The proposal for solid waste plant will be examined again along with its detailed project report at next board meeting. It’s proposed to be constructed on a PPP mode. Project reports of three other proposals, including a Cyber Hub, will also be presented at next meeting,” said GDA vice-chairperson Ritu Maheshwari.
 
 A total number of 37 proposals were presented at board meeting of GDA out of which 34 were approved. The board of the GDA met for the first time on Tuesday ever since Yogi Adityanath was elected the chief minister of UP last year. The board meeting was presided by Meerut divisional commissioner Prabhat Kumar.
 
 “The board has approved a proposal to de-notify the land-use change of a parcel of land in Arthala that had earlier been earmarked for the construction of the   before the project was shifted to Indirapuram. For sale of certain old flats in the Madhuban-Bapudham scheme, rates prevalent in the year 2015 were frozen, was amongst other proposals approved by the board,” said Prabhat Kumar.
 
 
