NEW DELHI: An uneasy calm prevailed at Delhi secretariat on Thursday as bureaucrats kept their distance from the   for the second consecutive day. This was despite most of them being in office and going about their daily chores minus the meetings with the netas. 

 IAS and other officers and employees of all the departments observed a five-minute silence outside their offices to register their protest against the alleged assault on chief secretary Anshu Kumar. Delhi’s divisional commissioner Manisha Saxena said this would be done every day at all departments till the CM apologised. 
 
 The government, however, continued to claim that normal business wasn’t affected. 
 
 Sources said that Prakash, whose medical reports have confirmed facial injuries, had high blood pressure on Thursday due to which he had to take leave. Chief minister  , who returned from Tamil Nadu in the afternoon, also didn’t come to the secretariat. But deputy CM Manish Sisodia remained in office, and his staff said file movement was usual and work went smoothly. 
 
 Weeks before the budget tend to be the busiest for any government during which multiple deliberations are required between the officials and the political executive. This is to ensure that all sectors are given equal attention and no department loses priority. According to sources in the department of finance, all the departments have already submitted their proposals for the budget, which have gone through review in multiple meetings held recently. 
 
 A senior officer, however, said discussions on budgetary allocations are yet to take place. Such meetings require the presence of the finance minister and bureaucrats from finance and planning departments, including the CM (if he chooses). “The officers will carry out their constitutional obligations and will not let the work suffer,” a top bureaucrat told TOI while ruling out any effect of the crisis on the budget.
 
 A meeting of the subcommittee of GST council has been scheduled by the Union government on Saturday, which Delhi’s finance minister is also likely to attend. For the meeting, an official said, all information has been shared with Sisodia. “If Sisodia wants a briefing, the officer concerned will brief him,” said a source. 
 
 “Even though they will meet the political executive on important matters in the secretariat, officers won’t go to the CM’s residence for a meeting,” said a bureaucrat.
 
 Police presence outside the secretariat was negligible on Thursday. 
 
 
