NEW DELHI: The coordination committee of district bar associations held a   on Thursday to discuss the issue of a woman lawyer who has claimed that she was   by her   at   court on May 4. The lawyer, meanwhile, recorded her statement before the  .

 On Wednesday, the Supreme Court restrained the Bar Association of Tis Hazari Court from going on strike, or participating in any kind of boycott of any court, while protesting against the alleged false implication of its office-bearers in the case. The coordination committee had earlier called for a lawyers’ strike on May 9 in all district courts over the issue but called it off after making a representation before the Delhi High Court. The committee, however, resolved to continue boycotting the court of a judicial officer at whose behest, it alleged, the woman lawyer had acted against the bar members.
 
 The lawyer approached Supreme Court on May 9, alleging she was being threatened by bar members and she could not go to court to record her statement without protection. The SC, after a brief hearing, directed that her statement be recorded before the chief metropolitan magistrate of Patiala House Court and not in Tis Hazari Court.
 
 The coordination committee of all bar associations, on the contrary, claimed that that the woman lawyer and her clients had manhandled another woman lawyer from the legal services when she was asked to refrain from appearing in court on May 4, when a lawyers’ strike was being observed. The coordination committee alleged that implication of a senior member of the DBA was a part of a “conspiracy”. The committee also claimed that the lawyer who was, in fact, manhandled by the woman lawyer and her clients suffered injuries, a fact concealed before the police by the complainant lawyer. 
 
 A resolution of the coordination committee stated that the woman lawyer was herself booked under Sections 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide) and 395 (dacoity) on the same day she had lodged an FIR against the bar members. “The lawyers are pillar of democracy and have to work fearlessly and, therefore, cannot be made puppets,” the resolution stated. 
 
 SC is scheduled to hear the woman lawyer's plea again on May 11. The lawyer members of various bar associations are likely to attend the hearing.
 
 
