Nagpur: The city traffic police last year booked more than 31,000 vehicles for carrying goods projecting out of their bodies last year. One such vehicle was involved in death of 12-year-old boy Piyush Ghode whose throat was slit by protruding iron sheets from the vehicle. Following’s Piyush’s tragic death, the police undertook a special drive against such vehicles and 300 were fined on Wednesday alone. DCP (traffic) told TOI, “In 2018 till January 29, total 3677 vehicles were fined. As per the Indian Penal Code Section 283, the fine is irrespective of the size of the vehicle and is only Rs200. The section ‘Whoever, by omitting to take order with any property in his possession or under his charge, causes danger or any obstruction, in any public way, shall be punished with fine.” A rider gets fined Rs500 for not wearing helmet and endangering own life but only Rs 200 for such dangerous transportation that endangers others life, he added. Dr Anjan Chatterjee, advocate of High Court of Bombay, Nagpur Bench, told TOI, “According to the Section 190 (3) of MVA, the carriage of goods which are dangerous or hazardous to human life, shall be punishable which may extend to Rs3000 or with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year, or both. The fine and imprisonment could increase as per the seriousness of the act.” the DCP added that the specific timings have been decided for transportation of large goods. Heavy vehicles carrying such goods are expected to move before 6 am and after 9pm from the city. During day is between 12pm and 4pm there is some flexibility. Chatterjee stated due to the increase in population and traffic, the flexible timings should be changed. He added that fining the driver could not be the only solution. The cops should allow the vehicle to continue in the same manner. Instead goods should be transferred to another vehicle that can carry them safely. TOI had reported that deceased Piyush had failed to notice the vehicle having iron sheets as the driver didn’t place any reflectors on it. “Though the vehicl was not moving, the driver had brought the goods from somewhere else and traffic police ignored the vehicle on road that caused the tragic accident,” said Hudkeshwar PI SB Mane.  RajuWagh, an executive president of ‘Apghat Mukta Nagpur’, suggested, “The owner, traders of hardware companies or construction material vendors should be served legal notice and alerted with strict order regarding the charges in case of violation.” The members of the association, which have been formed under NMC, should be called for meetings to prevent the accidents due to human error, he added. Traffic expert Vinay Kunte stated, “In India, the life is cheap and the trucks carrying protruding loads are the bread and butter and a big source of earning for all concerned. If the traffic police and the RTO are not doing their job, how can anyone be safe on the road? Every day we see so many trucks, pickups and autos carrying long bars and metal sheets hanging out and without any red or white cloth tied to the rear end to warn the following vehicles. No action is taken to unload the materials.” Traffic police have provided WhatsApp number- 9011387100 and requested citizens to provide the date and location, route and image of the vehicle along with its registration on the given number. It would be shared with the traffic police of the respective chamber and immediate action would be taken.