Guntur: Non-responsive administration in the medical education wing has wasted almost one academic year in launching the new-age bachelor’s degree courses in the government medical colleges in the state. 

 The trendy courses designed by the NTR University of Health Sciences (NTRUHS) were not launched even seven months after it cleared a resolution thanks to the chaos in the Directorate of Medical Education (DME).
 
 Sources said the proposals sent by the principals of government medical colleges are gathering dust in the DME office. In the absence of a feasibility report from DME, the NTRUHS did not issue admission notification while the academic year is almost coming to an end.
 
 According to information, NTRUHS has cleared a resolution to start the latest paramedical courses in BSc at government medical colleges where faculty, PGs and other infrastructure are available in July last. All courses have been designed after a thorough study into requirement of the colleges as well as the trends in the healthcare sector across the globe. This is the first time that a university had breached the traditional path and decided to launch innovative courses. For instance, it had decided to start Perfusion Technologist   at Andhra Medical College (AMC), Visakhapatnam and Government Medical College (GMC), Guntur. Perfusion technologist is a person who assist sthe cardiot-horacic surgeon in handling equipment in the operation theatre during heart surgeries. No college in the state had such a course.
 
 Similarly, the university has also designed new streams in renal dialysis technology and anaesthesiology technology in view of the growing needs of the expert surgeons in the theatres. “These courses were designed to produce a middle-level support staff in the operation theatre and also general services. They would also be helpful to post-graduate (PG) students in attending the casualty duties at teaching hospitals,” a senior professor at GMC told TOI. Interestingly, clearing 10+2 (Intermediate) is the eligibility for entry into such course which could be in high demand in the next few years.
 
 Sources said that following a directive from the university registrar, the principals of government medical colleges submitted their willingness letters to the DME in September last. As per the rules, DME has to appoint a committee to inspect the facilities and submit a compliance report to the university. Surprisingly, the DME is yet to appoint a committee to launch the course. “We are ready to issue the notification even now,” said a senior NTRUHS official.
 
 
