LUDHIANA:   police, on Saturday, booked unidentified miscreants for stealing money from at least 16 bank accounts after cloning   cards.

 Police officials said 16 people complained that they had withdrawn cash from a private   in J-Block of BRS Nagar and later found that someone had fraudulently taken out money from their accounts.
 
 Cops said during investigation, they found that miscreants removed the card reader of Axis Bank ATM machine, which stores the data of account-holders, and the   camera recordings from the booth. 
 
 They cloned cards with the help of data stored in the reader and withdrew money from various ATMs in Delhi.
 
 The miscreants swindled cash of account-holders of various banks who had withdrawn money from the ATM on April 15 to 20.
 
 “Till Saturday, 16 people came forward to lodge complaints, but the number crossed 40 on Sunday. As of now, the loss has been estimated at Rs 30 lakh to Rs 40 lakh, but it could be more,” said sources in the police department.
 
 Cops from Ludhiana cybercrime cell reached the complainants and started investigation.
 
 Cybercrime cell in-charge sub-inspector   said the bank officials didn’t inform the police about the theft of the ATM machine card reader and CCTV camera recording. “They instead installed new ones on their own. Since the card reader is inside the machine, it cannot be opened without keys. Therefore, the involvement of some bank officials cannot be ruled out as there was no damage to the machine,” he added.
 
 He said a case has been registered on the complaint of 16 card-holders. “The number of victims is more and they mostly belong to Sarabha Nagar. We have asked for CCTV camera footage of ATM kiosks in Delhi from where the accused withdrew money using cloned cards,” the sub-inspector added.
 
 Navdeep Singh said account-holders who have used that particular ATM must change their card PIN immediately.
 
 Sarabha Nagar police have registered a case against unidentified accused under sections 379 (theft), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 467 (forgery of value security), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC.
 
 
