NOIDA: MLA   toured several sectors on Friday to address civic issues such as potholed roads, blocked sewer lines, defunct street lights and unkempt parks before the onset of the monsoon, when taking up repairs becomes difficult. 

 Officials from the   have been touring the sectors to take stock of the situation for the past few days. While a team from the authority visited Sectors 34 and 93 on Thursday and Sector 51 last month, MLA Singh toured Sectors 20, 27, 19, Nithari crossing,   sectors 28, 29, Sadarpur and Kashiram colony on Friday. The officials evaluated the drains, sanitation and roads.
 
 “The MLA expressed dissatisfaction over the overflowing and clogged drains and directed officer on special duty Rajesh Kumar to ensure they were repaired at the earliest. Singh was also angry seeing the overgrowing shrubs in Sectors 20 and 21 and directed that the garbage vat near gate number 8 that has been lying open for over a year be repaired soon. He has given a deadline of 15 days for the repair of the vat. He also took a note of the parks and spoke to residents,” said Suresh Tiwari, a resident of Sector 20.
 
 Singh later visited the E and F blocks of Sector 27, where  , the general secretary of the local RWA, told him about unclean drains and sewers that need to be repaired ahead of the monsoon this year. The residents also sought the removal of the garbage vat in F block.
 
 “Singh directed the authority officials accompanying him to take immediate action and deliver concrete results,” said Awana. The issues that MLA Singh addressed in the other sectors were more or less similar.
 
 In Sector 93, officials of the water, streetlight, health and horticulture departments, listened to the residents’ grievances. The demands by the residents included identifying commercial activity to address rampant encroachment, allow a temporary grocery shop (run and managed by sector RWA) until the adjacent plot is developed, dedicated parking and speed breakers, and cleaning of drains.
 
 
