NEW DELHI: The United Nations Security Council's (UNSC) updated list of people it has designated 'terrorists' features as many as 139 Pakistanis, many from the Lashkar-e-Toiba ( ) and the Jaish-e-Mohammed ( ), reported Dawn newspaper.
 
 
 These 139 are identified as individuals who have lived in Pakistan or have operated from the country or have been associated with groups that used Pakistani territory for their operations.
 
  Included in the list are fugitive gangster Dawood Ibrahim and, of course, 
  . The UN Dawood has held several Pakistani passports issued in Rawalpindi and Karachi. It also said that he owns a “palatial bungalow in the hilly area of Noorabad, Karachi”, reported dawn
 
 Saeed, also a founder of LeT, is joined on the list by Haji Mohammed Yahya Mujahid, LeT's 'media contact', and two people known as his deputies, Abdul Salaam and Zafar Iqbal. All three are also wanted by Interpol.
 
 The UNSC has listed LeT as well as its various affiliates, including al-Mansoorian, Paasban-i-Kashmir, Paasban-i-Ahle Hadith, Jamaat-ud Dawa and Falah-i-Insaniat Foundation. In fact, just yesterday the US put another Saeed organisation, his political arty Milli Muslim League, on its list of designated terror outfits.
 
 
 
 Meanwhile, on top of the UN's terrorists list is al Qaida's Ayman al-Zawahiri, who was 9/11 mastermind Osama bin Laden's number two man. The UN said al-Zawahiri is still hiding somewhere "in the Afghanistan-Pakistan border area", reported Dawn.
 
 Number two on the list is Ramzi Mohammad bin al-Sheibah, who's identified as a Yemeni national, and who was arrested in Karachi and handed over to the US.
 
 Other terrorist outfits the UN says are based in Pakistan or linked to Pakistanis include Al Rasheed Trust, Harkatul Mujahideen, Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan, Wafa Humanitarian Organisation, JeM, Rabita Trust, Ummah Tameer-i-Nau, Afghan Support Committee, Revival of Islamic Heritage Society, Lashkar-i-Jhangvi, Al-Harmain Foundation, Islamic Jihad Group, Al Akhtar Trust International, Harkatul Jihad Islami, Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan, Jamaatul Ahrar and Khatiba Imam Al-Bukhari.
 
