Sundar Krishnan was enthralled by history when he visited the Brihadeesvarar temple in Thanjavur, his native place. He grew more enamoured after he started reading episodes of historical novels that appeared in popular Tamil magazines. Attracted by the narratives, he began borrowing historical novels from libraries. A visit to a friend’s house with its huge   of historical novels further inspired him. Today, Sundar Krishnan has an impressive collection of 800 out of 912 historical novels, published in Tamil so far.

 A school of writers believe that historical fiction in Tamil begins and ends with writer-poet Kalki Krishnamurthy. But that’s not true. There are at least 125 historical fiction writers in Tamil. The genre has produced more than 912 novels so far. This genre once flourished in Tamil literature during the 1970s and 80s and produced many remarkable works. Unfortunately, most historical novels, published during the 1950s-70s, have been lost due to lack of care and sponsorship.
 
  
 
 Although Krishnan started collecting historical novels from a young age, when in his 20s, he took the job seriously only after he moved to Chennai in the year 2000. His job as a software engineer helped him widen his search for historical novels. He travelled from book stalls to pavement book vendors and libraries in search of historical novels. Krishnan visited libraries in Singapore, Indonesia and Sri Lanka. The Kolkata national library allowed him to scan the original of two Tamil works. 
 
 It was a meeting with Venkatesh Ramakrishnan, a noted historical novelist in Chennai, in 2004, however, that eventually helped Krishnan go ahead with his collection. It took years but the result was positive. “I maintain a collection of 800 historical novels today, most of which are recovered from old book stalls, pavements and libraries. I have visited libraries across India and abroad and even collected works from there,” says the 53-year-old Chennai-based software engineer.
 
 “Venkatesh Ramakrishnan introduced me to many historical novelists, who are either being sidelined or marginalised. I met famous novelist Vikiraman (author of Udayachandran, Nandipurathu Nayagi) and collected works from him. I met many writers and understood the problems they faced. Publishers who offered big remuneration snapped ties with the writers once the novel is published,” said Sundar Krishnan. This eventually led to many giving up writing or shifting to other genres.
 
 At least 80% of the historical novels in Tamil are based on the Chola dynasty. There is a reason for this, he says. “The Cholas maintained a good record of their day-to-day activities in the form of inscriptions. This is the main reason why most novels talk about the Cholas,” says Krishnan, who expressed great hope in today’s historical novel writers. He even helped many publish their work. “I have great hope in today’s writers. They take history in a different perspective and the outcome is good,” he says. 
 
 Writing a historical novel, according to Krishnan, is not easy. “It involves a lot of painstaking research. The writer may need to travel to many places and collect details. Unfortunately, publishers take this for granted. And that’s why many great novels have disappeared today,” he says.
 
 Besides collecting books, preparing the list of historical novels was a challenge. Krishnan had to visit all the old publishing houses. “Many books are out of print today. So when I visited old publishing houses, they couldn’t provide any data. But some libraries helped me,” says Krishnan.
 
 Krishnan today maintains his collection in his private library in   in   district. The digital documentation, his dream project, is in progress. At least 200 novels have been documented. He owns more than 20 scanners in different sizes and shapes. He is also good at editing and proof-reading. “The new systems do not support the earlier “Periyar” fonts. So one has to check the text properly. It’s a tough job,” said Krishnan, who often devotes his weekends for it.
 
 For Krishnan, the journey is not over. He is now in search of the remaining 112 novels. “I have to document all the historical Tamil novels. At the same time, I have to find out the missing 112 novels. I will try to finish both in a couple of years,” he says. 
 
 EOM
 
 
