GANDHINAGAR: With   in   over   rising by the day and substantial numbers of students failing the   in class X, the   plans to make the study of the Gujarati language compulsory at all schools in the state, including those affiliated with CBSE, ICSE and other boards.

 At a recent programme in Ahmedabad, Rupani expressed concerns at the number of children failing in Gujarati and the number of students not choosing Gujarati as a subject.
 
 Bhupendrasinh Chudasama, the state education minister, said, “Considering the CM’s concerns about the future of the Gujarati language, we have formed an expert committee to advise the government on strengthening Gujarati language. The government is considering making Gujarati a compulsory subject in all boards for all classes. The state’s language cannot be optional. We are soliciting advice from experts on making it compulsory for non-government schools and non-Gujarat board schools. There will soon be a decision on this.”
 
 Rupani had recently expressed concerns at the number of Gujarati schools closing down. “Gujarati medium schools are shutting down. It’s important to frame policies to promote the Gujarati language. In the coming days, we will work to promote Gujarati. Narendra Modi had begun ‘Vaanche Gujarat’ to promote literature. We want to continue this. Books are integral to today’s life. We want to be associated with people working to promote literature,” Rupani had said.
 
 School authorities expressed apprehensions about the proposal, especially for non-Gujarati students from other states. Anand Niketan director Nashy Chauhan says, “Currently, students of classes V to VIII are given the option to choose either Gujarati or Sanskrit, while senior classes have Hindi as a subject. Something will be worked out if Gujarati is made compulsory, but students who move here from other states will have a tough time.”
 
 St Kabir principal Pragya Pandya says, “The language is optional for students from class V and there is no harm if students learn an additional language, but it will be difficult for non-Gujarati students to score in an language alien, affecting their overall scores.”
 
 Principal of Udgam School for Children, Sujata Tandon, says, “Learning and speaking a language does not need time, but learning a language as literature needs to start with the basics. So it will be good if Gujarati is introduced right from the start. It will, however, be a a challenge for transfer case students.”
 
 
