KOCHI: The   on Tuesday ordered police to register a first information report (FIR) against   head   and three others on a complaint alleging irregularities in land deals involving the church. Law is above all, the order said. 

 
 Justice B Kemal Pasha gave the order on a petition filed by   of Cherthala questioning the failure of Ernakulam Central police to register an FIR despite lodging a complaint.
 
 Repelling the cardinal's attempt to claim protection under the canon law, the court said canon law recognizes the importance of civil law. "No doubt, when matters related to civil or criminal matters are there, it is for the courts in India to deal with the matter even if it arises from activities of the diocese."
 
 A counsel for the cardinal had argued that he can do as he pleases with the property of the diocese and his authority cannot be questioned by anybody not authorized by canon law. He had claimed that the Pope is the appellate authority and replied in the affirmative when the court asked if the cardinal should be considered a king.
 
 The court said the cardinal was only a representative of the diocese in juridical affairs and he was expected to safeguard its interests. The properties of the diocese acquired using contributions from churches under it and not the income of the cardinal cannot be treated as property of the cardinal, the order said. 
 
 The court said the cardinal and others were mere trustees of the property entrusted to them by the diocese for sale. The specific instances and details produced in the case showed how recklessly the land transactions were made and an investigation is required as there is variation in statements of the cardinal and the real estate agent regarding money, it said.
 
 Besides Alencherry, the FIR will be registered against priests   and Sebastian Vadakkumpadan as well as middleman Saju Varghese of Vazhakkala. They were named in the police complaint alleging criminal conspiracy, criminal breach of trust and cheating.
 
 The scandal involves the sale of five properties, measuring over three acres in total, belonging to Ernakulam-Angamaly archdiocese of the church at Kalamassery and Kundannoor. It was alleged that the properties worth about 27 crore was sold for about 13.5 crore. The police complaint also said a priest involved in the deal had told a probe committee instituted by the church that 26 crore was received from the deal but only 8 crore was credited in the church's account. 
 
 The court also pointed out that the non-registration of FIR despite receiving a complaint violated the 2013 Supreme Court ruling in the Lalita Kumari case (Lalita Kumari vs. Govt of UP and Others).
 
 
