Rajkot: In a bid to create awareness about cleanliness, the Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) has launched a special Swachhata mobile application, which enables citizens to click photographs of filth and send them immediately for quick redressal.

 Civic body officials claim that Rajkot is at the fifth position in number of people downloading this app. The Swachhata application has been downloaded in 40,418 mobile phones. Officials said that 10 to 12 complaints are registered each day through this app at present. The civic body is also promoting the use of this app through its Facebook page.
 
 However, on the same FB page, a number of citizens have expressed views that a mere mobile app can’t make the city clean. Some people have also made comments on the performance of officials and said that the app hasn’t helped change the dirtiness scenario much.
 
 Sanjay Satta, a citizen and FB user, complained that, “Old, unsolved complaint data gets deleted without the user getting confirmation from civic body.” Harsh Gohil wrote, “Complaint status shows that it has been resolved while the truth is completely the opposite.” RMC claimed on its FB page that it has scored full marks out of 400 in swachhata. 
 
 Another resident Sunny Kubavat commented on this post and said, “I request the municipal commissioner to once visit Kothariya main road, Ranuja Mandir road and police chowki in this area and then explain how Rajkot scored 400 out of 400 points.” 
 
 Shailendrasinh Jadeja, an RTI activist, said, “I posted a complaint of filth at Airport Road near railway crossing. The problem was not addressed but solved on paper and I received a message too. When I complained about Nakravadi dumping site two months ago, RMC again showed that the complaint was resolved. When I protested, they opened the complaint and said this area is not in RMC limit. I registered the complaint again on this swachhata app and got a reply that the issue is resolved.” 
 
 Real estate developer Hitesh Bagdai said, “I don’t see any change in cleanliness in the city. I do believe that citizens’ participation is also required to keep city clean but RMC has failed to put dustbins at proper places and regularly clean roads. When people see dirty roads, they throw more garbage.” 
 
 Terming all social media comments as ‘motivated’, municipal commissioner Banccha Nidhi Pani said, “People repeatedly throw garbage at the same place which we clean. We have identified some problem areas and will penalize people who throw garbage on the clean road.” 
 
 
