NEW DELHI: The concerns of traders and residents about amendments to Master Plan Delhi 2021 might be contradictory, but they agree that the lack of proper policy and planning on public space has led to the need for coercive actions like the current sealing drive. At a meeting on Saturday, residents’ welfare associations said they didn’t grudge the traders their rights, but allowing commercial activities without proper planning would create chaos. The market associations felt constituting zonal committees to keep a check on illegal commercial activities and making officials accountable for encroachments could resolve the problem.

 
 RWAs agreed that civic officials should be penalised for any encroachments on public land. They also said heavy fines should be levied to prevent the loot of public land by unscrupulous elements. Jasbir Chadda, chief convener of URJA, a residents’ body, emphasised, “Unless a way is found to make the administration accountable and officers punishable for letting illegal construction and encroachments flourish, solving the problem is impossible.”  , CEO, URJA, was more scathing when he said, “The excuse of vote banks and public demand/supply were just red herrings to gloss over the corruption and the parallel economy. The floor-area ratio has to go up and can be done differentially, depending on the specific area. A parking policy must also be implemented urgently.” URJA said the RWAs had suggestions that it was submitting to the lieutenant governor. Traders’ association accepted that encroachments had to be dealt with, but said the on-going sealing campaign should have been conducted in a more legal manner.
 
 Atul Bhargava, president,  , said they were being targeted for illegal activities taking place right under the nose of the authorities. And  , vice-president, Confederation of All India Traders, added, “The population of Delhi has gone up exponentially, but no thought has been given to the space needed to accommodate the people.” After the traders charged the government with failing to provide parking space despite collecting conversion and parking charges,   of the   offered some ideas. 
 
 She was against a uniform parking policy for the whole city. “Parking problems differ from area to area and an appropriate policy should be formulated. The authorities perhaps need to also introduce shared parking for the use of both traders and residents,” she said. She added that random removal of encroachments wouldn’t help, but a clear-cut policy on this should be in place.
 
