NAGPUR:   governor Keshari Nath   on Sunday lamented that Hindi had taken a back seat as a number of people prefer English as their medium of speaking and writing and called upon youngsters to use the national language. 

 Inaugurating the Hindi Vidarbha Sahitya Sammelan at Ramgopal Maheshwari Sanskritik Sabhagruh, Tripathi asked why people shy away from speaking in Hindi when their Japanese counterparts take pride in their language. Similar is the case with various other countries where their mother tongue is predominantly used, he said. 
 
 Educationist Shankarprasad Agnihotri was the special guest.
 
 This year’s literary meet centred around the theme of ‘Hindi Bhasha Sabki Bhasha’. A lecture on the theme was delivered as part of the open forum by Agnihotri and it also saw individuals propose ideas to further the cause of Hindi language. Agnihotri shared his feelings by reciting his poem ‘Shishpar aashish hain Hindi’. 
 
 Coordinator   said that ‘Miss World’ should speak in Hindi even on the global stage to convey the beauty of the language. Introduction of Hindi language as a compulsory subject for students of Class 8, 9 and 10 was one of the proposals made at the meet, he added. 
 
 “Five proposals will be selected and submitted to the government for furthering the cause of Hindi,” Jain told TOI.
 
 In the evening, a comedy Hindi play, written by the late humorist Harishankar Parsai, was staged. The screenplay was done by   while playwright   directed it. The play, replete with funny arguments, put forth various problems in police system and corruption.
 
 The play had a few props but captured audience’s interest with background sound and use of lights. It was put forth by city-based Chirag Theatre. Pradip Parashar played the protagonist in the play, senior police inspector Matadin, who is sent on a Moon mission where he ends up spreading corrupt practices. Parashar and other actors did a fine job of embodying characters and delivering dialogues. 
 
 Dr Vipin Khadse, who lent a helping hand to a pregnant woman on a train to deliver with the limited resources he had, and Dr Omprakash Mishra were felicitated, besides two meritorious students.
 
 Baidyanath Ayurveda Bhavan’s joint managing director Suresh Sharma also spoke on the occasion.
 
 (With inputs from Nisha Hirani)
 
 
