LUCKNOW: Guns again roared in Amethi, on Tuesday noon during a shootout between criminal groups. The gang war led to the brazen killing of Ashfak Ahmad, a resident of Badegaon village. Police were on the lookout for Ashfak’s arch rivals and have detained two suspects.

 
 Around 1pm, along with two more persons Ashfak reached Jagdishpur block office where four others got off from two motorcycles and started firing at Ashfak as soon as he alighted from the SUV. He tried to retaliate along with his accomplices but having sustained multiple gunshots in abdomen, he collapsed on the ground. Crude bombs were also lobbed on Ashfak’s SUV.
 
  
  
 
 One of the assailant was also injured in the exchange of gunfire and the rival gang managed to escape. A passerby was also injured and sustained pellet wounds. The brazen attack in broad daylight that too in busy part of Amethi was enough to provoke the local traders and shopkeepers.
 
 
  
  
 
 After shutting the market for a while local residents started protesting. Senior officials learned about the brazen gang war and rushed to the spot. It was found that Ashfak had a criminal past. He was arrested for conspiring to kill former Jagdishpur block president Rajesh Vikram Singh in March 2015.
 
  
  
 
 With the rival group known, police teams started raiding the houses of people associated with Rajesh and picked up two suspects. ADG Lucknow zone, Abhay Prasad said, "It appears that Rajesh had planned the attack. But we are waiting for Ashfak’s kin to conduct last rites and tell us more details."
 
 Police have found that Ashfak used to support a strongman who had contested elections against Rajesh in the past in Jagdishpur. The two sides had often clashes over establishing supremacy. Meanwhile, extra forces had been summoned to control the irate villagers. "Some people are trying to add communal colour and hence force had been deployed in some sensitive parts," said an officer in Amethi.
 
 Communal tension in Muslim-dominated pockets has forced ADG Lucknow zone to camp in Amethi. He is expected to stay in the district overnight. 
 
 Villagers shouted slogans against police and Yogi government in the evening soon after body of the deceased reached his house. 
 
 Police have recovered two pistols from suspects. FIR against Rajesh Vikram and others had been lodged for murder. 
 
 The station house officer (SHO) of Jagdishpur has been suspended.
 
