CHENNAI: The opposition is stepping up pressure for a   Management Board (CMB), and the   government is set to urge the   to direct the Union government to name the authority — as envisaged in the draft scheme —   and get it notified at the earliest. An oral submission will be made before the court on Wednesday when the case comes up for hearing.

 A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting convened by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami with ministers and bureaucrats at the secretariat on Tuesday. The thinking is that the notification of the authority will help convene the first meeting ahead of June 1, the beginning of water year and get the mechanism going. “A board was what was recommended by the tribunal and we stand by that. The tribunal order was gazetted in 2013,” said a senior official, seeking anonymity. 
 
 Tamil Nadu will also seek to set up the headquarters of the board in New Delhi. While the tribunal did not mention the location, the draft scheme had said that it would be located in Bengaluru. Given the experience with the successive Karnataka governments in the past, Tamil Nadu is worried about the open defiance of its neighbour when it comes to complying with orders. The draft scheme endorses the tribunal that stated that the authority could seek the Centre’s help. The Centre’s decision in the matter will be final and binding on all the states concerned. What if a state does not comply with the Centre’s order? “TN will press for court’s clear-cut directions on Wednesday,” said another official. 
 
 The draft scheme is mostly in line with the tribunal order. “We have also taken a bit from our experience in Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) and   (NCA) on the selection of chairman,” Union water resources secretary U P Singh told TOI. BBMB is headed by a full-time chairman, an eminent engineer from hydro, while NCA is headed by secretary of Union water resources ministry. While presenting the draft scheme, the Union government told the court that it learnt during its discussions with the states that the name of the authority was a very sensitive issue. It sought the guidance/directions of the court as far as the name of the authority is concerned. Law minister C Ve Shanmugam on Monday told TOI that nomenclature would not be an issue.
 
 
