NAGPUR: The   appears to be an apt case of political contrast. While Congress president Rahul Gandhi was on fast on Monday to protest against   government and non-functioning of the Parliament during the recently concluded Budget session, his party’s woman corporator in Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) “supported” a   candidate for the zone chairperson’s election by abstaining.

 Even the leader of opposition Tanaji Wanve’s role has come under scanner. Though   issued a whip to 28 party corporators to vote for party’s candidates in all zone chairpersons’ elections, he did not nominate any candidate for any of the 10 posts. This ‘gifted’ Bahujan Samajwadi Party, with seven corporators, an easy win in Ashi Nagar zone, while absenteeism by Congress corporator Gargi Chopra helped the ruling BJP to retain Mangalwari zone.
 
 The elections to 10 zones began at 11am at the NMC’s standing committee hall. By the end of the day, the BJP posted a resounding win and claimed all the nine mini-mayors’ posts — of which the party retained eight unopposed.
 
 District collector Sachin Kurve was the presiding officer. The election concluded at around 5.30pm. In 2017-18, the BJP had mini-mayors in 10 zones.
 
 The BJP lacked majority in Ashi Nagar zone which comprises 16 corporators with the BSP having seven, Congress six and BJP three. Sources told TOI that the Congress had decided not to support BJP or BSP. However, three Congress corporators Parasram Manwatkar, Dinesh Yadav and Neha Nikose remained absent from the poll indicating their anguish against Wanve. With no Congress candidate in the fray, the corporators supported BSP candidate Vandana Chandekar and the party had an easy win.
 
 BSP corporators too said that they had not sought support from the Congress. “In the last election, they had ditched the BSP by supporting the BJP,” said BSP party leader Jamal Siddiqui.
 
 In Mangalwari zone too, the BJP easily won the mini-mayor’s post. With eight corporators, BJP fielded Sangita Girhe, while BSP with three corporators proposed Vinod Walde as its candidate. Even though Congress party’s four corporators supported the BSP candidate (having three votes), the absenteeism by of Gargi Chopra ensured the BJP winning this seat without any trouble.
 
 The BJP, however, won mini-mayors’ elections in other eight zones unanimously. Prakash Bhoyar was retained as mini-mayor of Laxmi Nagar zone, Pramod Karauti (Dharampeth), Rupali Thakre (Hanuman Nagar), Vishakha Bante (Dhantoli), Rita Mule (Nehru Nagar), Vandana Yengatwar (Gandhibagh), Yeshashwari Nandanwar (Satranipura) and Deepak Wadibhasme (Lakadganj).
 
 City Congress president Vikas Thakre said if party corporators lodge a complaint against Wanve, the city unit will recommend action against the leader of opposition to the Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee. Leader of opposition Wanve admitted issuing a whip but failed to explain why the party did not field any corporator in both Ashi Nagar and Mangalwari zones. He also failed to expalin whether the party will take any action against absent corporators.
 
 Senior Congress corporators Sandip Sahare and Manoj Sangole told TOI that there was a whip from the leader of opposition to participate in the elections or else action will be initiated. But now we are demanding action against Wanve for failing to announce any candidate for the elections, he said. 
 
 
