GANDHINAGAR: The Gujarat government, which has already officially announced that it will not give   this summer, and also planned to   from Narmada in major cities, has approached the Centre for immediate intervention. Given the  , and big reduction in water released from MP, the   wants the Centre to direct MP to release greater quantities of Narmada water daily to tackle impending drinking water crisis in Gujarat.

 M.S.Dagur, ACS, Narmada department on Tuesday met key officials of the Union government and made a presentation regarding the emerging water crisis in the state. He requested the Centre and Narmada Control Authority(NCA) to release more water in the Narmada river for Gujarat. According to sources close to the development, chief minister Vijay Rupani has also requested the Prime Minister’s Office(PMO) for required intervention and PMO has instructed the ministry of water resources to take necessary action.
 
 A source in the government said, “Compared to previous years, the inflow from Madhya Pradesh to the Sardar Sarovar has drastically come down. So we approached the Centre and the NCA and requested them to increase the supply in the Narmada basin from MP. The Centre has understood our concern and assured intervention and release of more water in next couple of days.’’
 
 The source added, “Compared to average 19,000 to 25,000 cusec per day we received in January 2017 in January 2018 we have received an average inflow of just 1,800 to 2,000 cusec per day from Madhya Pradesh. This may be further reduced as MP has received poor rainfall this season. Around 15,000 to 20,000 cusec more water per day has been assured.”
 
 This year, the inflow of the rainwater in the Narmada catchment area in Madhya Pradesh has been the lowest in last 15 years. Moreover, water quantity received from the water alls have also drastically reduced this year. Against the annual availability of 9 MAF( million acre feet), Gujarat has got only 4.71 MAF which is 45% less than that last year.
 
 Water allocation to Madhya Pradesh, Maharshtra and Rajasthan has also proportionately reduced to almost half of the quantity compare to 2016-17. Against the storage capacity of 5,860 MCM (million cubic metre) in the Sardar Sarovar dam as on Jan 23, 2017, Gujarat had 1,173 MCM water while on January 21, 2018 Sardar Sarovar had only 455 MCM water.
 
 
