JOHANNESBURG: In a Test match build-up, few elements make for a juicy debate the way dissecting a combination of the playing eleven does. Why this batsman and why not that. Why a five-bowler attack at the cost of an extra batsman. Why risk a debutant in place of an experienced Test cap.

 
 Experts rarely come to an agreement on these issues with opinions alone adding to the build-up of a game like little else. The Cape Town Test, one that India lost to   by 72 runs in almost four days, with one of those days getting robbed by rain, led to one such build-up. The young debutant Jasprit Bumrah’s selection over the more experienced   and Umesh Yadav wasn’t spared either, except that the bowler with the unorthodox action, mere 24 years of age, put an end to this one debate after bowling the spell of the Test match.
 
 
 
 
 Benching Lokesh Rahul to open with   and Murali Vijay; benching Ajinkya Rahane at No. 5 and opting for Rohit Sharma; and not roping in the tall Ishant Sharma to take advantage of the Newlands wicket still remain a topic of discussion and will continue to, perhaps, until the start of the second Test.
 
 Amidst all this noise generated by various talking heads, TOI can confirm that Karnataka opener Lokesh Rahul – who sat in the first Test – will return to the playing eleven at the Centurion for the second Test match starting Saturday.
 
 
 
 
 
 The case for Rahul being included in the first Test itself looked justified, given that the 25-year-old was in good touch, barring the last Test match he played in Nagpur. With both Dhawan and Vijay not doing themselves any favours, especially the former for having been sloppy in the field too, the team management can be expected to take some stern decisions.
 
 Rahul could make his way back at the cost of Dhawan and not Vijay, given that the latter still happens to be a more experienced hand given the conditions in South African. Yet, it’ll have to be seen what skipper   and coach Ravi Shastri have in mind after they visit Centurion on Thursday.
 
 Meanwhile, the debate over picking Rohit Sharma ahead of Ajinkya Rahane is likely to continue because the team will continue with the former over the latter simply because of the form and runs he carried with him from the home series against Sri Lanka.
 
 The team’s logic over Sharma’s inclusion is simple: By dropping him, what message do they convey to a batsman who scored an unbeaten century and two half-centuries (one unbeaten) in the only two Test matches he played in 2017.
 
 That aside, Sharma has to his credit 564 runs from 10 One-day Internationals at an average of 62.67 and a highest of 171 not out in 2016. In 2017, he took that performance several notches higher by registering 1293 runs in 21 ODIs at an average of 71.83 with a highest of 208 not out. Both these years, he has enjoyed a strike rate between 95 and 100, setting new benchmarks in the format.
 
 Compare that with Ajinkya Rahane, who has scored close to just 300 runs in the last seven Test matches, including a 132 in Sri Lanka in August last year. The beleaguered batsman played 12 ODIs last year, but would not warranty a comparison to Sharma.
 
 To be fair to Rahane, he’s a classic Test match cricketer who deserves a place in the eleven, especially with India playing overseas when he averages close to 55. The only way India can include Rahane in the eleven is if they decide to drop R Ashwin, a decision that’s unlikely at Centurion.
 
 
