Bhopal: Banking and business hit on bandh day due to violence, and hit the next due to shutdown of internet — the cost of violence is being felt in more ways than one in MP’s trouble-torn areas.

 The administration switched off internet in Gwalior, Bhind, Morena, Balaghat and Sagar districts to prevent social media from stoking violence during the Dalit-called Bharat bandh on Monday. It affected common people, too. ATMs didn’t work, train and flight tickets couldn’t be booked by card or e-banking, and office communication was hit.
 
 Neelesh Shukla, owner of a tyre shop in Chhatarpur, was a frustrated man on Tuesday. He lost half a dozen customers as they were not able to swipe their debit cards because point of sale (POS) machines were not functioning. One of the customers wanted to replace all four tyres of his SUV.
 
 “It was a big loss. The internet has been off for almost 24 hours, leading to business losses. We can’t afford riots in this era of cashless society,” Shukla said.
 
 About 250km away, in Shivpuri near Gwalior, shopkeeper Brijendra Singh had similar story. The POS at his hardware shop did not function, neither did ATMs, he said.
 
 In riot-affected Gwalior, sales executive Avinash Kapoor was not able to pay his bills at a hotel. “My card wouldn’t work on their POS machine. Hotel staff asked me to try an ATM that was reportedly functioning at the railway station. They even lent me a car to go there but I found that it wasn’t working either. Finally, I had to borrow from a friend,” Avinash told TOI.
 
 An official of State Bank of India, which has the maximum number of ATMs and POS in Madhya Pradesh, said, “Most POS machines do not require internet connection. This looks like an issue of digital wallets or some other digital product where online cash transaction takes place. SBI POS don’t need internet connection, they are run on SIM.” SBI ATMs were functioning in these areas, he said.
 
 Not only the riot-torn districts, even neighbouring areas were denied internet services. They include Chhatarpur, Panna, Tikamgarh and Damoh in Bundelkhand and Shivpuri, Guna and Ashoknagar near Gwalior, say sources.
 
 
