KOCHI: The high court on Thursday banned the state-wide strike planned by nurses from Monday, seeking better wages. 

 An interim order banning the strike was issued by the court after considering during admission hearing a petition filed by the   chapter of   (India). The court also directed for sending notices to   (UNA) and various state government authorities while posting the case for a detailed hearing on Monday.
 
 It was demanded in the petition that action should be taken under provisions of Kerala Essential Services Maintenance Act, 1994 (ESMA) to ensure that the indefinite, state-wide strike announced by UNA does not result in a situation where the entire healthcare system of the state is severely affected. Healthcare services have already been declared as an essential service under   through a notification issued by the state government on September 27, 1993, the petitioner association has contended.
 
 The petition by the association of healthcare providers states that the proposed indefinite strike by nurses from March 5 will have significant adverse impact on healthcare services in Kerala even resulting in the closure of emergency rooms, operation theatres, intensive care units, and dialysis units of many hospitals. "Critical care to those severely ill will be affected. Lifesaving surgeries and other planned medical procedures will have to be cancelled or postponed immediately. It would not be out of place to mention here that the private health sector provides more than 75% of healthcare delivery in the state and is one of the largest employment providers of the state having more than one lakh sixty five thousand staff," the petition said.
 
 "An immediate impact of the strike would be felt on the admission of new patients and will have significant adverse impact on the care being provided to the existing patients. In fact, the hospitals may even be put in a difficult position of having to discharge admitted patients in an effort to ensure minimum care to patients," the plea added.
 
 As per the petition, the demands raised by UNA in the strike notice issued on February 17 includes change in stance regarding resolving issues at   at  , desisting from retaliatory measures, and implementation of revised minimum wages which is still under discussion.
 
 
