CHANDIGARH: Security agencies in Punjab have expressed concern over   from Pakistan exploiting the poor financial condition of some farmers in Punjab’s border regions to turn them into contraband carriers.

 
 Sources in BSF told TOI that the smugglers are targeting those farmers who have their fields across the fence and are in desperate need of additional cash. Also, the modus operandi has changed. Instead of trying to smuggle in large quantities through the farmers, they have evolved ‘conceal and clear’ method where large consignments are broken down into small quantities and then sneaked in.
 
  
 Some 6,000 families in 212 villages of Punjab’s border regions have fields across the security fence. The land measures around 24,000 acres. 
 
 These farmers are treated as first-line couriers who clear the consignment from the area ahead of the border fence up to 400-500 metres and are paid between Rs 50,0000 and Rs 70,000 for sneaking in a 1 kg packet. 
 
 The same packet when carried from the border area to Ludhiana, Amritsar, Bathinda, Pathankot, Jalandhar, Patiala, Chandigarh, and New Delhi, costs between Rs 3 lakh and Rs 5 lakh.
 
 “Earlier, some farmers would hide large packets in their agricultural tools to dodge BSF guards but because of the deployment of additional battalions and joint operations with Punjab police’s special task force (STF), the smuggling was controlled,” said Mukul Goel, inspector general of BSF’s Punjab Frontier. 
 
 “Now, reports have emerged that they split the entire drug consignment into small quantities. This makes detection difficult and also minimises monetary loss in case the consignment is caught. Though farmers in border area are helpful to our troops, some of them fall prey to these smugglers for quick money.” 
 
 The smaller quantity is hidden in false cavities in tractor-trollies, agriculture equipment, drawbar, iron rod, cylindrical, coupling pin, false cavities in shoes and later handed over to peddlers. Sources also confirmed that Pakistani drug smugglers, under the guise of farmers, establish contact with innocent Indian farmers while they are working in the fields. 
 
 BSF officials added that with the higher frequency of special search operations near landmarks like submersible pumps, prominent trees and water channels, farmers have started hiding the split contraband at unconventional places. 
 
 BSF, however, has introduced rigorous frisking and unearthed several incidents where farmers were trying to clear a small consignment hidden in their fields.
 
 
