Kartik.Sood@timesgroup.com

 Chandigarh: The organising committee of India’s first-ever sports literature festival ‘Playwrite’ will send recommendations that’ll emerge from the event to the Union sports ministry for its consideration. The litfest would be organised at The Lalit Hotel on March 17 and 18.
 
 Vivek Atray, the convenor of the event, told TOI that some proposals pertaining to needs and changes required in the field of sports would be formulated. “There is a private think-tank ‘Suvichar’ — a non-profit organization — headed by former chief of army staff General VP Malik that has been requested to come up with innovative measures, which can be sent to the ministry,” said Atray.
 
 The literature festival would be conducted on the lines of similar events that are held in Melbourne and London.
 
 Centenarian runner, Fauja Singh, 106, who has the distinction of being the world’s oldest marathoner, has been roped in to inaugurate the event. Hockey legend   Sr is also slated to accompany Fauja to the event. One of the moderators of the lit fest will be Khushwant Singh, who had also written a book on Fauja Singh — titled ‘Turbaned Tornado.’ Fauja Singh completed nine 42km marathons since taking up long-distance running in his late 80s.
 
 “It’s a great idea to have a sports literature festival. The young generation will be apprised of the struggles faced by several sportspersons. There are so many inspirational sports stories; and, personally I believe it (the sports lit fest) is going to be a success,” said Khushwant, who also felt that the festival should be an annual affair.
 
 “Recognition is like elixir for a sportsperson. Books about sports and sportspersons bring well-deserved spotlight on them and their achievements, which on one hand encourages them to achieve higher levels and on the other inspires the reader to go out and replicate or surpass the achievements of their heroes,” opined Balbir Singh Sr.
 
 Atray and Chitaranjan Agarwal, the organisers of the fest, hope to provide a platform to bring together sporting personalities who have either written books or have been the subject of one or more books themselves.
 
 The sports literature festival will feature 10 interesting sessions covering sports like hockey, cricket, marathon, football, boxing, rugby and kabaddi.
 
 Among eminent sporting personalities scheduled to participate in the two-day festival are the players and staff of I-League winners Minerva Punjab FC, Indian women's rugby team, skiers Himanshu and  , boxer Akhil Kumar, golfers Shubhankar Sharma, Ajeetesh Sandhu and Gurbaaz Mann, and actor Aparshakti Khurana.
 
 
