Mom is that first word that springs to our minds when in trouble or agony. We know that she is just a phone call away — be it while trying to prepare your first dish or while struggling to deal with the butterflies in the stomach during a job interview. For all the various problems, mom is a surefire trouble shooter.

 On Mother’s Day, Mollywood celebs talk about what they love best about their mothers.
 
 
 
 
 She is a strong-willed woman with a clear idea about how things should be. She is very cool and calm yet bold so that none of us can actually take her for granted. However, she makes sure that things are on track. Back when I decided to choose acting as my career, amma was working as an assistant manager at a prominent bank and she opted for VRS to accompany me to the shooting sets. A national-level badminton player, my mom had no second thoughts when she decided to give up her career for me. I very well know that a ‘thank you’ isn’t enough to express my gratitude. From then on, I saw a mom who takes care of me at the shooting sets and makes sure I have everything – be it 5 am or midnight. Hats off to my mom for never complaining about the unpredictable shooting schedules. She is synonymous with selflessness.
 
 
 
 
 It is because of her that I am what I am today. She has moulded my character, my values and my confidence. I still remember her expression when I first did my stage performance back in kindergarten. She had more dance expressions than what I could produce on my face. It continues even now. She is always one call away and gives me the best advice when in doubt. She is also my role model on how a mom should be. She makes sure that we have everything. 
 I still remember, I was in school when she was pregnant with my sister. We were living as a joint family and she used to run around and take care of everything in that house. None of them had any complaints about her. I want to be like my amma.
 
 
 
 Amma is everything to me. We are very good friends and I enjoy going for walks with her, my hands around her. She is my biggest comfort zone and her care is beyond words. We also have a telepathic connection. While I was traveling to Andaman Islands for the shoot of Mosayile Kuthirameenukal, I was feeling homesick and missing amma. I knew I did not have time to go back to Wayanad and meet her and to rid myself of the uneasiness, I decided to sleep over it. While lying down on the cabin in the ship, I felt amma coming to me and is hugging me tight. I slept very comfortably, and I woke up after a while and realised that she wasn’t there. I couldn’t control myself and I burst into tears. I called amma and she too joined me (laughs). She is so soft-hearted that after watching my first film, Second Show, she broke into tears as Dulquer and I die in the movie. Soon after coming out of the theatre, she made me promise that I will never die in any of the movies. (laughs).
 
 
 
 I feel she has the purest form of love for me. The rest have certain conditions when they love me. The trust I have in her is such that I go to her with all my doubts, confusions and anxieties and I know she will give me a clear idea on how to tackle it. I know I can blindly depend on her. Another thing that melts my heart is that she never sleeps until I reach home. Even if I tell her that I will be late and she should not wait, she will lie down on the sofa in the veranda and wait for me. She tells me that otherwise, she may doze off and may not hear me ringing the calling bell. I am at peace when I am with her. It is priceless and precious and I am sure that she is the only one in my entire life who will love me like this. I have named my house Sujatha, and I know it is nothing when compared to what she keeps doing for me, but at least I can give back to her in whatever little ways I can.
 
 
 
 
 she’s my partner in crime and our craziness levels are on the same page - sometimes she beats me to it 
  
  
 
 
 
