BENGALURU: A gullible citybased schoolteacher paid conmen varying amounts — totaling Rs 7.2 lakh — over five days through online banking before she realized she had been taken for a ride. A cybercrime team from the city’s   tracked down the culprits and have them in their custody.

 While online scams and phishing schemes are a dime a dozen,  , the teacher and a resident of Basaveshwaranagar, has some hope of getting her money back. The task for police wasn’t easy given that the culprits operated out of New Delhi. However, in a matter of three months, cops managed to nab the thieves.
 
 Police identified the accused as John Rajan, 27, a bar waiter,  , 22, a salesman, and K Nagaraj, 2, a mason. All three are residents of Delhi.
 
 The trio was working on behalf of Nigerian scammers, who open bank accounts in India, said cops.
 
 Priyadarshini filed a complaint with cybercrime police on January 26 this year. She said she was informed by an unknown caller on January 16 that she would need to pay Rs 35,000 for customs clearance of a parcel of foreign currency addressed to her. Without cross-checking details, she paid up. In the next four days, the gang got her to part with Rs 6,75,000 on one pretext or another.
 
 Finding the modus operandi similar to many other cases,   police formed a team to trace the conmen. They began tracking mobile numbers, bank accounts and other details and soon found that the culprits were operating out of Delhi. The SIM used in Priyadarshini’s case was purchased by Nagaraj in his name. The investigators, which went to Delhi, tracked Nagaraj down and took him into custody. Based on information he supplied, cops nabbed his other two aides.
 
 “We traced the IP address and bank account details to New Delhi and zeroed in on the trio,” a cop said. “We learnt that John was the leader. He was working on behalf of Nigerian scammers. Efforts are on to find out how many people this gang cheated.” Police said the gang studied profiles on social media sites, including  , to find potential victims. “They collected mobile numbers and addresses using the internet. They would contact their targets and get them to part with money using the pretext of a parcel of foreign currency,” cops said.
 
 The accused were brought to Bengaluru and their bank accounts — in   — were frozen.
 
