MUMBAI: A BPO employee, waiting to get off a packed local   compartment to head for work, was thrown off between Andheri and Jogeshwari because of intense jostling among commuters for standing space. Saurabh Pendurkar (25) is in a  , having suffered severe skull and facial injuries, reports Nitasha Natu. 

 He has undergone neurosurgery, but his treatment will be long-term, doctors say. His family members have issued a   appeal online to meet his treatment cost, estimated at Rs 15-20 lakh for a month.
 
 Saurabh lives with his parents in Bandra (east) and commutes to his workplace in Malad by train. “On February 23, he took a down train from Bandra around 11am, as per his routine. The locals were running late that day and commuter traffic was higher than usual,” said his sister Anushka. “At Andheri, a huge crowd boarded his compartment. Saurabh was not far from the door as he intended to get off at Malad. Jostling for space continued even after the train started. Because of all the pushing and shoving, Saurabh lost his grip on the handrail and was thrown out. The train was at speed by then.”
 
 Gangmen working on tracks saw Saurabh   and rushed to help. They informed railway authorities and the GRP. “The police brought a stretcher, on which Saurabh was carried to Andheri station and then to the civic-run Cooper  , Juhu,” said a GRP officer. Since there was no neurosurgeon at Cooper, Saurabh was moved to Nanavati Hospital, Vile Parle, where he is being treated by Dr Rajan Shah, who heads neurosurgery there.
 
 “On arrival at Nanavati, Saurabh was comatose, with laboured breathing. He was put on ventilator. His CT scan revealed multiple fractures to the skull with… intra-cerebral haemorrhage. Facial bone fractures were noted,” said Dr Shah in a medical document handed to Saurabh’s family. “Facial bone repair may become necessary. He is likely to need long-term ICU care and the outcome cannot be predicted.”
 
 Anushka said the family’s combined income isn’t enough to cover Saurabh’s treatment cost. “Our father has retired from service and our mother is a homemaker. Through crowdfunding and loans from relatives, we have raised about Rs 2 lakh so far,” she said.
 
 Readers who wish to donate for Saurabh's treatment can go to his crowdfunding page
 
 https://www.impactguru.com/fundraiser/help-saurabh-shashikant
 
 
 
