Bengaluru: The fire raged for 30 hours in the Bellandur Lake area and kept hundreds of residents around the polluted water body in south-east Bengaluru on tenterhooks. Much to their relief, the blaze was finally doused by fire force personnel and armymen around 4.30pm on Saturday. About 40 acres of the 950-acre water body were damaged.

 The cause of the fire is still not yet confirmed. Despite initial reports of fire being put out late Friday night, tongues of flames were visible on Saturday morning and around noon, thick columns of smoke were still billowing. Karnataka fire and emergency services and army personnel were pressed into action to salvage the situation with fire spreading over several parts, including the grasslands on the lake periphery.
 
 Officials, including those with the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA), custodian of the lake, and fire department haven’t yet been able to lay a finger on what sparked the fire. Sources in the BDA said it could be an accident or a motivated exercise while others claimed it could have been caused by nearby garbage dumps being set ablaze or even possibly due to chemically ‘active’ sludge.
 
 A lot of garbage, especially plastic, in the affected area worsened the situation. "Either garbage had accumulated on the river bed from the periphery or some agencies or individuals were dumping it there. Thick grass around the lake added to the fire," said a senior fire brigade officer overseeing the operation.
 
 Karnataka director-general for fire and emergency services MN Reddi said: "Our team is yet to submit a report about the cause of the fire. There could be multiple reasons, including dry grass, a discarded cigarette or toxic methane gas. The exact cause will be ascertained only after investigation.”
 
 BDA commissioner Rakesh Singh said: "We have requested the Union ministry of petroleum and natural gas, Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change as well as Karnataka State Pollution Control Board to help us identify the cause. We have also sought central assistance for restoring the lake.
 
 Rakesh said they’re exploring various angles, including accidental fire, arson and chemical reaction as the cause. "We have yet to ascertain the actual area damaged in the fire. We doused the fire by 11am Saturday and smoke by late Saturday evening," he said.
 
 Residents allege waste is the cause
 
 Lake conservation expert and resident of the area, Shalini Batra, who visited the spot said: "The waste accumulated on the riverbed seems to have triggered this fire. BBMP is responsible for poor waste management.”
 
 She alleged that most sewage treatment plants maintained by the BWSSB around the lake are dysfunctional. "There should be stringent action against those letting sewage as well as medical and construction waste into this lake. If it was a blue flame, then we can say it’s due to burning of organic waste. But this was an orange flame since it was mixed with garbage. This clearly shows the negligence of civic authorities who have neglected the lake despite NGT directions," said Jagadish Reddy, a resident of Bellandur Rising.
 
 In February last year, the severely-polluted water body had caught fire with foam and froth from the lake, spilling onto adjacent roads scaring residents and motorists. With the city on the verge of entering another summer, residents in the vicinity fear more fires are around the corner.
 
 
