THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The freak accident at Kuravankonam on Sunday which claimed the life of Ashok Kumar, a city resident, could have been avoided had the ongoing work to cover the   measuring one km not dragged on for months, according to residents. The works standing committee of city corporation had approved the work before the end of previous fiscal but it could not be completed on time. 

 According to ward councillor Maya R S, erroneous preparation of estimate and revision in project led to delay in completion of drain work at Yuvadhara Garden Road, Kuravankonam. 
 
 The drain which was constructed by department of minor irrigation was transferred to city corporation and the works committee had prepared a project in 2017 to cover the open drains except in areas leading to houses. The ongoing work had been stalled for more than a week.
 
 “When I contacted the assistant engineer, I was told that the contractor was unavailable. The work was approved before March and it started a week ago,” said Maya R S. 
 
  Ashok Kumar was an electrician and his family was fully dependent on him. 
 
 Ashok Kumar, who had sold off his family house at   and had been staying with his family comprising two children and wife, was planning to move to his new rented house at Kuravankonam on Monday. He was trapped inside the drain overflowing with storm water for more than fifty minutes before he was rescued and rushed to the hospital. He had been walking along the drain with his friend on Sunday. He slipped into the open drain and hit his head on the slab. The force of water made it impossible for the person accompanying him to pull him out of the drain.
 
 “Since it was raining heavily, we couldn’t take him out quickly. We alerted the fire force ambulance immediately and it took almost 50 minutes to take him out from the drain. The drain is filled with muck, water and garbage to brim, people often fall in it but this was fatal,” said Sundar, a resident of Kuravankonam. 
 
 The death of a person has brought to fore the need to cover drains ahead of rainy season. Several residential areas of Kuravankonam and the city has uncovered drainages posing danger to motorists and pedestrians. The newly constructed drain near Kannettumukku Junction, has been left uncovered for the past four months. 
 
 “The drain has remained open for the past few months and no security measures have been taken by the authorities to avoid such accidents in this area. Out of fear we cannot even let our children play in the front yard,” said Arun Kumar, a resident of Kannettumukku. 
 
 In addition to drains on byroads, those on main roads are also left uncovered. The drain adjacent to Jagathy Road is one among them. “Speedy action will be taken to cover the open drains in the city,” said Suresh Kumar, executive engineer of PWD.
 
 A survey report prepared by   had found out that city corporation will have to restore old drains and construct new ones over a distance of 60km in 30 wards. 
 
 Mayor V K Prasanth, who visited the house of Ashok Kumar on Monday, said that works to the tune of Rs 30 lakh were approved for the area. He said that 600 slabs need to be laid and works will be completed soon.
 
 
