CHENNAI: A confrontation is on the cards between the state government and the Raj Bhavan with the   insisting that it would not allow "any other agency or official" to question Nirmala Devi, assistant professor of the   college, who is accused of luring students to offer sexual favours to 'higher ups'. A judicial magistrate court in Sattur in Virudhunagar district on April 20 granted five-day custody of   to the CB-CID. 

 A CB-CID official, seeking anonymity, said, "We are the investigation agency and Nirmala Devi is in our custody. We got custody of her from the judicial magistrate court and we cannot entertain any other agency or official questioning her. It is crucial for us to interrogate her and get more information about people involved in the scandal."
 
 Retired IAS officer R  , appointed by Tamil Nadu governor   to probe the Madurai Kamaraj University scandal, however, said, "There is no conflict whatsoever". The CB-CID wanted custody of Nirmala Devi and they got it. They will complete their questioning on April 25. "There is no need for me to seek the court's permission to question her. I have sought permission from the Madurai prison superintendent," he said.
 
 But Justice K Chandru, retired high court judge, rejected Santhanam's contention saying, "An accused cannot be questioned by any other agency when she is under police custody. Any investigation can be done only by the investigating agency. A governor's nominee can only do fact finding without disturbing the current investigation in progress. The CB-CID is well within its rights to say no to any other agency seeking access to the accused."
 
 Santhanam would resume his probe in Madurai from Wednesday by which time the CB-CID would have completed its questioning of the assistant professor, who would be brought back to Madurai prison. "I will write to the prison superintendent again seeking permission to question her," said Santhanam.
 
 He said the four college students, based on whose complaints the woman was arrested, appeared "shaken and stressed" when he interacted with them. The four, all doing final year BSc Mathematics, were questioned.
 
 "When I spoke to the students, they seemed shaken and under great stress," said Santhanam, adding that he did not want them exposed to the media. "Their final exams begin tomorrow. I did not want to stress them. We met them and heard what they said," said Santhanam, who last week co-opted two woman professors into the probe team led by him.
 
 
