CHANDIGARH: A man accused of sexually assaulting his two minor daughters has walked free after they turned hostile in  .

 Additional district and sessions judge Poonam R Joshi acquitted the father booked under Sections 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Sections 8 (punishment for  ) and 10 of POCSO Act.
 
 The matter dates back to November 16, 2017, when the police booked the father on a complaint of the women cell. The victims were 13 and 14 years old. They had approached the   police station, from where they were sent to the women cell.
 
  
 According to the complaint, the girls alleged their father used to sexually harass them. “The man used to sexually harass the elder daughter and when she objected and threatened to kill herself, he started   the younger daughter,” the complaint had alleged.
 
 It was alleged the father used to harass the two while their mother used to go away for work. When the victims reached police station they were send to women police cell and after registering an FIR against the father under relevant sections of IPC and POCSO Act, the accused was arrested.
 
 Sandeep Gupta, the defence counsel, argued the accused was falsely implicated in the matter. “The father had scolded her daughters and someone from the neighbourhood had motivated them to file a case against him at the police station,” the counsel claimed.
 
 During the trial, the victims backtracked from their earlier statement in the court.
 
 
 
 
 The father was accused of sexually harassing the two minor daughters, aged 13 and 14, when their mother used to go away to work
 
 The father allegedly started sexually harassing the second daughter after the elder one threatened to kill herself
 
 The two daughters had lodged a complaint against their father at a police station on November 16, 2017
 
 Defence counsel claimed the father had scolded the two girls and a neighbour had motivated them to file a false complaint against him
 
 
