Kolkata: A day after sacking  ,   on Tuesday appointed   as their new coach. The 51-year-old was last associated with Mumbai FC and had also managed Mohun Bagan earlier.

 Kashyap is being appointed for the remainder of the season and his aim for now is to take them up the   standings. At present, the club is at the sixth spot with 17 points from 13 matches. They have won four, drawn four and lost five, including two at home against their northeast rivals Shillong Lajong and NEROCA FC.
 
 “Aizawl FC are a great team and they have done really well over a small period of time. The players are also very talented and my main focus is on the remaining five matches of the I-League,” said Kashyap, who will join the team in Goa on Wednesday — three days before their match against Indian Arrows.
 
 Aizawl will begin their maiden AFC Cup campaign soon after the I-League but Kashyap does not want to think that far at the moment. “I don’t want to think about it right now. Let the I-League finish first and then we will think about it.”
 
 Apart from Mumbai FC and Mohun Bagan, Kashyap has also worked with several other clubs, including Salgaocar, Royal Wahingdoh, ONGC and Air India. The AFC pro license holder also represented India in his playing days as a striker.
 
 Explaining the club’s decision, Aizawl FC president Robert Romawia Royte said: “We have confidence and belief in him. I hope he will be the right person to address the needs of Aizawl FC at this juncture.”
 
 The president also said that the team will be signing some new players before the AFC Cup. “We want to sign some Indian as well as some foreign players and it will be decided after discussion between the technical director and the coach.”
 
 The players, on the other hand, are still in a state of shock with the kind of treatment meted out to Menezes.
 
 “We got to know about the club’s decision only on Monday night and were shocked to say the least. The management could have waited till the end of the season. After all it wasn’t that the team was performing very poorly,” said one of the senior players, on condition of anonymity.
 
 As far as Menezes is concerned, the Portuguese coach has decided to go back to his home country for now, once all his dues are cleared by the club. Although he is still trying to come to terms with the management’s decision, Menezes is more than happy with the support that he has got from the players.
 
 
