Surat: While crossing the Athwalines main road near Surat District and Sessions Court, one would feel that no traffic laws or rules exist in the Diamond City. The half-a-kilometre-long traffic jams during peak hours have become a routine affair on one of the busiest stretch of the city, triggering jam on connecting lanes and parallel roads. To escape the traffic on main road, vehicles get diverted in narrow lanes and end up clogging the already crowded Ghod Dod Road, creating heavy rush at crossroads in the busy market area. “I get delayed daily due to jam on the road and many a times it leads to argument with parents. There is unauthorized parking on road outside court since many years and it has worsened due to demolition of the old court building,” a school auto driver Satish Parmar said. The court campus is adjoining the collector’s bungalow, which again is few metres away from the city police commissioner and municipal commissioner’s houses on Athwalines. Hundreds of lawyers, their clients, court employees and police vehicles come to the court daily. Practice of unauthorized parking on footpath and road is common since many years. However, the issue has aggravated as the old court building is being demolished inside the campus and a large portion of parking inside the campus was not available. In current situation, hundreds of vehicles, including two-wheelers and cars, are parked outside the court campus on both sides of the road in several layers. The ongoing construction of bridge on river Tapi and connecting flyovers has only aggravated the situation.  “There is a major issue of unauthorized parking issue outside court campus due to mismanagement in the manner demolition of the old building is being done. We were told that it is time bound. We are hopeful that the parking on roads outside the court campus will end once some portion of the open area is be made available for parking after demolition of the building,” president of Surat District Bar Association Kirit Panwala said. “Traffic police have been deployed along with traffic brigade personnel to manage the traffic. There is a genuine reason for vehicles being parked outside, hence we are not taking strict action at large. We are working to improve traffic management on Athwalines,” deputy commissioner of police, traffic, B R Pandor said.