NEW DELHI: The medical examination of 19-year-old law student Diksha Dadu, who crashed a car near Kingsway Camp in northwest Delhi early on Sunday, has revealed that her blood alcohol level was more than the permissible limit.

 The   of the five youths travelling in the car were unaware   their plans for the night. Dadu’s father, a businessman, told police that he didn’t know that she has gone out. The three women, who study in Amity University, were living in the college hostel.
 
 Dadu’s friend, Joshita Mohanty (19), a native of Thane, had called her parents before they left the college campus saying that she was going out with her friends and may stay over at their place if it gets too late to return to the hostel. Her father works with a multinational company in Mumbai.
 
 The car   proved to be the difference between life and death for the five youths. Investigating officers said that Dadu and Mohanty suffered only minor bruises as they were wearing seatbelts and the airbags inflated immediately after the car collided with the road divider.
 
 The third woman, Rashi Sharma (20), suffered a collar bone fracture but is out of danger. When the car turned turtle, Sharma got buffered by Ritesh Dahiya (21) and   (20) as she was seated between them in the back seat. Her father is an astrologer in Meerut.
 
 Doctors at Sushrut Trauma Centre said Dahiya and Singh sustained fatal head injuries as they crashed into the car’s windows. Dahiya, a resident of Sonipat district in Haryana, started bleeding from his ears and nose probably due to internal injuries in the head. Singh, a resident of Pitampura, had abrasions on the body, but the cause of death has been established as injuries sustained to the head.
 
 Police have also found that the friends were taking turns to drive the car through the night. The case will be transferred to MACT cell for further investigation. Dahiya’s father will also be questioned as the car was registered in his name. The statements of Mohanty and Sharma will be recorded on Monday.
 
 
