AURANGABAD: The general body of the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has passed a resolution to cancel the membership of five Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (IM) corporators for indulging in inappropriate behaviour, abusing civic officials to force them to demolish a structure near Damdi Mahal recently. 

 During a day-long discussion,   and   corporators joined hands to move the proposal. The MIM members staged a walkout as soon as mayor   read the ruling. The NCP and   corporators chose to be silent spectators.
 
 About a couple of weeks ago, the issue of demolition of a house was raised by the MIM corporators, who wanted the structure to be removed as it was allegedly built illegally and was coming in the way of widening the 100 feet road. 
 
 The Sena corporators alleged that the land on which the house stood belonged to the revenue department and questioned the civic body administration too for razing the structure. "They should have informed the revenue department and should have acquired the land from that department properly," Sena members said, further alleging that the MIM corporators pressurized the administration to demolish the house.
 
 The mayor had convened a special general body meeting to discuss various issues, but it was finally devoted the civic body action on the house and the role of MIM corporators.
 
 The MIM corporators clarified in the general body that they had gone to the spot to help the administration as there were chances of law and order trouble at the site. They also denied that they had indulged in any illegal activities and were at the spot because the 100 feet road passes through their respective wards.
 
 Following discussion, the mayor gave a ruling that the general body resolves that membership of five corporators, including two women, be cancelled. The mayor directed the administration to send a proposal to the state government for its nod. The resolution is regarding opposition leader Feroz Khan, house leader  , corporators Zameer Ahmed Qadri, Sarwat Begum and Sajeda Farooqui.
 
 Feroz Khan alleged that the mayor had convened the special general body meeting to discuss firm action on removal of encroachments and dealing with hawkers. However, the entire discussion was directed at expressing pain over demolition of the illegal residence, he said. 
 
 "What interest Sena-BJP had in raking up the issue involving a structure that has encroached upon the government land and proving to be a hurdle in the widening of 100 feet roads," said Khan, adding that they did not raise any issue when the civic body demolished houses in minority-dominated areas for widening the road. 
 
 He added that they will approach the government and the court against the "undemocratic act of the general body led by a Shiv Sena mayor".
 
 
