BEIJING: Chinese scientists have said that   1, the country’s prestigious space laboratory, has not gone out of control as has been suggested by several international experts. Foreign experts have said that the 8.5 ton space station would come crushing to the earth in March.

 Refuting the analysis by foreign experts, the space lab’s chief designer, Zhu Zongpeng, said Tiangong I is being closely monitored and would be safetly decommissioned in the first half of this year. Tiangong, which means heavenly palace in Chinese, was launched in September 2011 and completed its task of providing data in March 2016. China has since launched Tiangong-2.
 
 Zhu, who heads the design unit of the space laboratory system of the fifth research institute of China Aerospace Science and Technology Corporation, said that the spacecraft would burn up as soon as it enters the Earth's atmosphere and the debris will fall into a designated sea area without endangering anyone on ground.
 
 The main point of difference is whether Chinese scientists have lost control over the space lab. Even foreign experts have said that the craft is likely to burn out before it touches the Earth and there is only a remote possibility of its debris falling on land.
 
 The US based   recently said there was a chance the space lab might come plummeting down and scatter debris on the ground. “For your safety, do not touch any debris you may find on the ground nor inhale vapors it may emit,” it said.
 
 "They have a PR embarrassment on their hands," Jonathan McDowell, an astrophysicist at the   told CNN. "The actual danger is small, but it is accepted international best practice nowadays that objects that big shouldn't be able to fall out of the sky in this manner."
 
 State media said that China's manned space engineering office is still updating its orbiting status. The latest report showed that the craft orbited the Earth at an average altitude of 286.5 kilometers, in a stable state between December 17 and 24, it said.
 
 It is international practice to control decommissioned large spacecraft orbiting near the Earth to crash into an abyssal region in the South Pacific, called the "spacecraft graveyard", Pang Zhihao, an aerospace expert, told China Daily.
 
 China has handled similar situations in the past, it said. It managed a controlled crash of the Chang'e 1 spacecraft onto the Mare Fecunditatis area on the moon in 2009. In September 2017, Tianzhou 1, the nation's first cargo spacecraft, left orbit under orders from ground control and its debris fell into the "spacecraft graveyard", it said.
 
