KOCHI: Parents of children, who underwent cochlear implantation surgery, are a worried lot as manufacturers only give a warranty of four years for the   and the spare parts for the same are quite  . The cost of the device is anything between Rs 4 and Rs 12 lakh. As many as 2,000 children have undergone   in Kerala.

 In 2012, government introduced   to facilitate cochlear implantation for 750 kids aged below five with 80% hearing loss. “Manufacturers provide a four-year warranty for the implant, while the same for some parts would be a year. Since maintenance and device repair is expensive, there are difficulties in purchasing a new part,” said secretary of Cochlear Implantees’ Association and Charitable Society Biju Avanthika.
  
  
 
 Though government had issued a circular to local bodies last year to provide assistance for   by designing projects, these bodies don’t offer aid to procure parts when the device malfunctions as the government has not mentioned it specifically.
 
 “The circular doesn’t mention repair cost and local bodies are not ready to provide aid for repairs or purchasing spare parts. If major parts like a speech processor need to be repaired, the cost would be Rs 50,000. If the government insert the words ‘maintenance and purchase of spare parts’ in the circular, it would help address the issue as local bodies have earmarked adequate amount for the project,” Biju said.
 
 But,   claimed that government had stepped in and enhanced the warranty period of major parts by two years. “When the expiry matter was brought up, government ensured that warranty period for major spare parts was extended by two more years. For parts like battery, cable and coil, the warranty period was extended by a couple of months. The annual repair of such parts may total to Rs 1lakh. We are thinking of an insurance scheme for all those underwent cochlear implant surgery with the help of local bodies,” said   executive director Dr Mohammed Asheel.
 
 Delay in getting spare parts is another worry. At present, three foreign manufacturers supply the device in Kerala and none of them have an office here. “We supply spare parts on the same day we get the order. There may be a delay as we have to send it from Bengaluru by courier or by post. The consignment will take four days by courier. For remote locations we use registered post that takes a week,” said Aravind Nair, clinical specialist and audiologist at Advanced Bionics, one of the three firms that supply cochlear implants.
 
 
