Puducherry: The centralised admission committee (Centac), which finalised and published the list of students allotted postgraduate medical and dental seats in government and private colleges, directed the candidates to join the respective colleges before 3.30pm on April 20 after transferring the fees fixed by the government to the committee’s account.

 Centac co-ordinator (admission) Rudra Goud said the committee will transfer the fees collected from the candidates to the colleges concerned. He said the directorate of health and family welfare services has appointed a grievance officer (Nilamani) and the candidates facing any difficulties in admission process may seek the officer’s guidance (mobile no. 93454 54505).
 
 Goud said a candidate, who had been allotted a seat but did not join the course, can attend the second round of counselling. Similarly, if a candidate, allotted a seat in the second round but aspires to participate in the mop-up round, can do so by depositing Rs 25,000 (half for SC/ST/OBC) for government college and Rs 2lakh for self-financing college as fees. This amount will be forfeited if the candidate takes a seat during the mop-up session.
 
 Centac allotted 83 of the total 84 seats under government quota and 43 of the total 81 seats under management quota for postgraduate medical programmes offered by Indira Gandhi government medical college and research institute, Sri Manakula Vinayagar Medical College (SMVMC), Pondicherry institute of medical sciences (religious minority institution) (Pims) and Sri Venkateshwaraa medical college (linguistic minority institution) (SVMC).
 
 The lone seat under physically handicapped category under government quota in SMVMC remained vacant, while all the 37 seats under management quota in the institute were allotted seats on all-India basis. Only two of the total 25 seats in Pims and four seats of the total 19 in SVMC under management quota were allotted after the first round.
 
 Pims has to fill up the vacant seats (23) with the students of the religious minority (Christians) of the Union territory of Puducherry, while SVMC with the students of linguistic minority (Telugu) of the Union territory. If seats remain vacant in Pims and SVMC even after first two rounds of counselling, they will be converted into management quota seats for candidates of Puducherry and filled up based on NEET-PG 2018 ranks. If seats remain vacant further, they will be filled up on all-India basis during the mop-up counselling.
 
 
