AHMEDABAD: Even as cops exulted in their success in ensuring that the assembly elections were conducted peacefully, the past fortnight has been a law-and-order nightmare for the city with as many as five murders occurring in that period. Moreover, it was a black Saturday for the city police as two youths were brutally stabbed to death in Gomtipur and Meghaninagar, while a constable was found drunk on duty at the LG hospital.

  
  The first two murders occurred in Vatva and Ramol. Then 82-year-old Rambhaben Patel was strangulated by a Mumbai-based contract killer at her bungalow in Ghatldoia. And on December 28, a 10-year-old class 6 student of Maninagar, Rudra Choksi, was kidnapped and murdered for ransom of Rs 20 lakh by three, two of whom were minors.
 
  In the Gomtipur case, on Saturday afternoon,   Dantani was stabbed to death by his maternal cousin Nitin and two others. Suresh’s mother Sharda was stabbed in the chest and stomach. She is undergoing treatment. “Suresh had an affair with Nitin’s wife, Tejal, while stayed with them in Vadodara,” a senior police official said. “Nitin was enraged when he learnt that. He came to Suresh’s house with two men — Anil Dantani and his uncle Raman Dantani — on Saturday afternoon.”
 
 Police sources said that without saying a word, Raman and Anil held Suresh — who was having lunch at the time — and Nitin stabbed him repeatedly with a long knife. “When Suresh’s mother Sharda tried to save her son, Nitin stabbed her too. The trio fled as local residents began to gather on hearing the cries,” the official said.
 
 Barely 12 hours later, Pankaj Rathod alias Jonty — a history-sheeter — was stabbed to death near Bhargavnagar in Meghaninagar on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday. “Pankaj had been externed from the city by the police commissioner for two years,” a police official said. “However, Pankaj came to the city and met his brother   on Saturday night. In the morning, Sagar was informed that Pankaj was lying in a pool of blood near Bhargavnagar.”
 
 Since Pankaj had a criminal background, cops suspect that he was killed to settle old scores. “We are trying to identify the killers,” a police official said.
 
 Constable found drunk on duty at hospital
 
 Police constable   of the Isanpur police station, who was deployed at the LG hospital, was found drunk on Saturday night while on duty. Rathod entered into an altercation with the relatives of a patient and refused to register their complaint. “The relatives of the man, who later died, called the police control room. Cops found Rathod in an inebriated condition and without uniform,” a senior police official said. “He has been booked under the Prohibition Act and has been suspended.”
 
 Rumour-mongers to be booked
 
 Since Saturday, rumours had been circulating about a gang of kidnappers prowling in the city. City police has reacted strongly to the fake news on social media. Crime branch officials have taken to the social media to stress that no such gang is active in the city. They have warned that anybody who deliberately spreads such rumours would face strict action.
 
 Death sought for boy’s killers
 
 A candlelight march was taken out in   to demand capital punishment for the killers of 10-year-old Rudra of Maninagar. Rudra’s father, Ketan Choksi, is a jeweller and owns a shop near  . He said that about 400 jewellers and a number of other people participated in the march. “I want nothing less than capital punishment for the killers of my son. In Delhi, they will try the minor nabbed for the murder of a student of the Ryan International School as an adult,” he said. “We want the same here.” Rudra’s kidnappers lived in his society. The crime branch has arrested all the three accused.
 
