CHANDIGARH: There is a need of modification in the curriculum and training of the teachers dealing with the differently-abled students in the city schools, stated a study by the centre for physically challenged persons, National Institute of Technical Teachers Training and Research (NITTTR), Chandigarh. conducted in the city schools. Dr J S  , head of centre for physically challenged persons, NITTTR and Neetika Sharma, project associate at the centre conducted the study among the city schools.

 With the help of a standardised questionnaire, an attempt was made to collect required data from all categories of schools. Out of 195 schools, 22 responded to the questionnaire. During the study, it was noticed that the dropout rate among the students with disabilities is more in higher class while less in the lower classes.
 
 According to the findings of the study, there is an immediate need to have a modified curriculum according to the disabilities of the children. Teachers dealing with such students need to pay additional attention to them. For capacity building of teachers, 90-day in-service training programmes should also be arranged.
 
 The study suggested that to teach the students with disabilities, teachers need to know how to handle students with disabilities without being offensive. Trained teachers or the training of the existing teachers is desirable to meet the different educational needs of students with disabilities.
 
 Training to teachers should be imparted by the experts from the different disability sectors through special training modules as there is always a specific necessity according to the type of disability of the students.
 
 Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan ( ) in Chandigarh is facilitating education for the special children. Special Resource Teachers (RTs) are also engaged in the cause. 20 clusters have been set up in Chandigarh, each having a head and a coordinator. In all, five resource centres have been set up in Chandigarh. A resource teacher visits every school once a week or whenever there is any specific request from the school.
 
 A special camp such as medical camp and therapy camp should be organised at special resource centres. It was found that there is inadequate resource staff in the schools to handle the special children. 
 
 Majority of the educational institutes have railings and ramps. Areas which deserve thrust include provision for special parking facilities, special toilets, sign boards, braille printers, talking books and teaching aids for students with disabilities.
 
 There is a need for special curriculum according to the disability specific needs of such students. Such specially designed curriculum is expected to help students with disabilities cope up with their studies and move forward with the rest of the class, noted the study
 
 The study suggested that home-based education (HBE) is also provided to children who cannot be mainstreamed due to the severe degree of disability.
 
 1.8% of the total were special
 
 -1.62% of those studying at primary level in schools covered
 
 -3.1% of those studying at middle level in schools covered
 
 -2% of those at high school level in schools covered
 
 -0.57% of those studying at senior secondary level in schools covered
 
 
