NASHIK: The   district and sessions court on Monday convicted six upper caste villagers in connection with a suspected honour killing case that took place at   village in neighbouring   district on January 1, 2013. The court of judge   will pronounce the quantum of sentence on January 18.

 The six men had killed three Dalit youths - Sachin Gharu, Sandeep Thanwar and Rahul Kandare - following a love affair between   and the daughter of one of the convicts. A seventh villager was acquitted by the court as charges against him could not be proved. The incident had sparked widespread resentment within the Dalit community in the state.
 
 Well-known lawyer  , who was appointed as special public prosecutor in the case, told TOI, "The accused had called Gharu, a sanitation worker, to their village on the pretext of cleaning a septic tank. Gharu went to the village with Thanwar and Kandare. Though the latter two had no connection with the love affair, they too were mercilessly killed along with Gharu."
 
 Six convicted for killing 3 Dalits in Ahmednagar
 
 While Gharu was killed and his body thrown in the septic tank, Thanwar and Kandare were hacked with sharp weapons and their bodies flung into a nearby dry well.
 
 Nikam said that technical evidence such as the location of the cellphones of the three youths and call records showed that they were speaking with their family members from the work site till 2.30pm on the day of the murders.
 
 Nikam said Gharu used to work at a college in Newasa, Ahmednagar, where the daughter of Popat Darandale, one of the convicts, was pursing her B.Ed course, and they had fallen in love. “I had declared the girl hostile during her examination after she had denied any love affair with Gharu. During her crossexamination, she accepted that she had stopped going to college from the day after the murders but could not give reasons why she had done so,” he said.
 
 The trio’s killing came to light after one of the accused told the police that a man had fallen into their septic tank. During investigations, the police also found the bodies of the other two youths. The complainant was made an accused in the case.
 
 Given the sensitivity of the case, the investigations were handed over to the state CID. On a request from various Dalit organisations, Nikam was appointed as the special public prosecutor in the case. The chargesheet in the case was filed in March 2013 after which the trials began in the Nashik district and sessions court. Nikam examined 53 witnesses in the case.
 
 Though the triple murders had taken place in Ahmednagar district, the case was transferred to Nashik in 2014 given the pressure on the witnesses.
 
 Apart from Popat, the other five convicted in the case are Ramesh Darandale, Prakash Darandale, Ganesh Darandale, Sandeep Kurhe and Ashok Navgire. Ashok Phalake was acquitted due to lack of evidence.
 
 
   
 
 
