TRICHY: The confusion over inviting foreign tourists to the Pongal festival organised by the tourism department at   village has brought to the fore the headless state of the district tourism department.

 Even though tourism minister   is a native of  , the department in the district has not had a tourism officer for close to six months now. In fact, it is not just Trichy, but 10 other districts too do not have tourism officers. Day-to-day affairs of these districts were being looked after by officials from the adjoining districts, according to tourism department sources. 
 
 Though officials from the department claimed that   results were awaited to fill the posts, absence of officials to such key posts had affected the tourism prospects of the districts. For instance, foreign tourists gave a miss to the Pongal festival at Kuzhumani village, which was meant for them to experience the traditional Pongal celebrations. It was usual to invite foreign tourists who are in Trichy city after checking their availability. But none turned up for the celebrations and the district administration maintained that there weren’t any foreigners staying in the city.
 
 Due to the lack of coordination between the district administration and tourism department, no proper arrangements were made for the event. A senior official from the district administration said that, “It could have been avoided if there was a tourism officer in place.” He added that there was confusion over inviting tourists and there were plans to call tourists from Thanjavur, which was also cancelled at the last minute.
 
 The forest department has been in talks with the tourism department on promoting   as tourism destination. In the absence of a full-time district tourism officer (DTO) in Trichy, DTO of Namakkal G   had to coordinate with the officials. He is also in-charge of Karur, Namakkal and   districts. The official said that TNPSC had conducted written test for candidates who had applied for the post of tourism officer. The results were expected anytime and the posts likely to be filled. The tourism minister was unavailable for comments. 
 
 
