TRICHY: A proposal to install incinerators across all schools in the state, achieving open defecation free (ODF) status were among the topics discussed at a state-level workshop to ensure availability of safe drinking water and safe sanitary practices held here on Tuesday. The workshop is being held with an objective to develop strategies for sustainable development in water and sanitation management.

 Organisers from   ( ), a global network of civil society groups said that the workshop discussed the challenges faced by stakeholders in promoting sustainability and water management activities in both urban and rural localities. With discussions on safe drinking water and safe menstrual hygiene taking centre stage, participants promulgated the need to ensure the availability of incinerators and menstrual hygiene awareness across all schools in the state.
 
 Maintaining that only 1% of schools in   district have incinerators installed in rest rooms, the need to promote awareness on menstrual hygiene for teachers was raised by social workers. “Strategies for collective advocacy for sustainable development can be developed through such interactions. The outcome of such interactions wanting for focus on specific sectors will be forwarded to the ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA) and ministry of rural development (MoRD) for consideration while drafting policies,” S  , state convenor, FANSA told TOI.
 
 Since many of the participants including environmentalists and local body representatives were from urban localities, besides menstrual hygiene, threats for water bodies such as pollution and encroachments were discussed in the Q&A session. “In Trichy district, water bodies like   and Aiyaru including their their flood plain area face contamination threats. Farming associations and NGOs have registered their suggestions to conserve water bodies which will be conveyed to the governments,” Annadurai added.
 
 As many as 45 members from 22 districts including Chennai and   attended the interactive workshop.
 
 
