MUMBAI: The idea of extracting crores of rupees for medical seats under management and NRI quotas has been struck down by the Fee Regulating Authority. The state-appointed FRA, which decides the tuition charges for all professional colleges in  , has stated that fees for post-graduate medical courses need to be quota-blind. Last year, several colleges had set their NRI and management seat fees at three to four times the merit/state quota fees. 

  The circular, which has been sent to all private colleges, has shocked managements. So much so, they have now refrained from participating in the admission process for this year that has already started. Many colleges are awaiting clarity from the government. 
 
  
  While the FRA released the policy only for PG admissions, many in the know say the same would soon be made applicable to undergraduate admissions too. Private college managements have threatened to close down their campuses and not hold any admissions this year. 
 
  "I have received a letter from the FRA stating that fees for all three categories-merit seats, institutional seats and NRI quota-will be the same," said Dr Praveen Shingare, head of the   (DMER). 
 
 Miffed, private college managements have informed the DMER that they would not admit any PG candidates this year. "I have kept the government informed about this," added Dr Shingare. The chaos among colleges is evident and they plan to move court, said a principal of a private medical college.
 
 Colleges have 50% seats for merit quota, 35% for institutional quota and 15% are NRI seats. "This is an expenditure-based fee structure and there is no question of charging higher fee to some student and lower to others," said a member of the FRA. After all, post the single entrance examination, all students are merit candidates as their admission is based on the National Eligibility and Entrance Test (NEET) scores, the FRA member said.
 
 But colleges argue that they don't get a fair chance to charge the fee according to their annual expenditure. "When we present our budget for our annual fees, there is negotiation and we cannot charge the fee as per our expenditure. At this rate, our colleges will have to shut down," said a managing trustee of a private institute.
 
 On Wednesday, managements of private colleges met and decided that they would put all admissions on hold till this matter was resolved. "If a government medical college is spending Rs 200 crore every year to run their medical college, we cannot be expected to run our colleges with Rs 25 crore. The FRA is trying to curtail our revenue and make our colleges substandard," said Kamal Kishore Kadam, president of the Association of Managements of Unaided Private Medical and Dental Colleges (AMUPMDC).
 
 He added that while the government is selecting students for all the quotas, the private colleges had the right to demand the tuition fees they need. There are a total of 1,500 PG seats in government colleges, 400 in private institutes and 900 in deemed institutes, the admission for which is conducted by the central government. 
 
 Domicile rule 
 
 The government's admission regarding the domicile rule has been admitted in the   and it is expected to come up for hearing in two days. The DMER moved the   against a recent Bombay high court ruling that makes medical postgraduate aspirants from outside the state who have done their MBBS here eligible for state seats. That will clear the air on who can participate in the PG admissions. 
 
 
