CHENNAI:   ( ) batsmen are on a roll. Such has been their dominance that even when they separated their regular openers — the in-form   was pushed to No. 4 and   opened the innings with Shane Watson — on Monday the outcome was the same. The Super Kings scored a mammoth total to outclass their opponents yet again.

 
 That the CSK batsmen have been looking dangerous this season is because of how they have adapted to tricky situations. While Shane Watson has rediscovered his touch after a poor IPL last season, the other CSK regulars — Suresh Raina and MS Dhoni — have delivered when it mattered. But what has made the difference for CSK this season is how players like Rayudu and Sam Billings have adapted to the team’s cause. The 32-year-old Rayudu has been giving flying starts to CSK as an opener. But he has been even better in the middle-order.
 
 Du Plessis feels that Rayudu’s batting position at No. 4 suits the team best at the moment. “Rayudu’s flexibility has impressed me. You can put him at any position from No.1 to No. 11. He will score runs. But the ability to come in at 4 and score boundaries from the outset is something which makes him unique. It is a very difficult skill and not everyone can do that. So if you ask me, I would say Rayudu coming at No. 4 slot is the best for the team. 
 
 “If Watson and I can give the team a solid start, Suresh (Raina) at three and Rayudu at four can just come in and play their natural game. It can become dangerous for the opposition,” Du Plessis told a media conference on Monday.
 
 Du Plessis, who found his groove with a well-compiled 33 against Delhi Daredevils on Monday, feels that the flexibility of Rayudu has given the CSK thinktank the freedom to tinker with their batting order according to the opposition and nature of the pitch. “I am not sure if the opening slot will keep changing or not. We haven’t had those discussions with the coach. But purely with the way Rayudu is batting in the middle, I would make sure that he is at No.4 for his skills. We are fortunate that we have got a lot of options in the batting unit. Sam Billings had come in at No. 5 and scored some good runs. He obviously adds a different dynamic to the team. So everything is stacking up really well in our batting department,” said Du Plessis. 
 
