Madurai: At noon, standing at Palanganatham Overbridge gives an eerie feeling, as the city underneath buzzes with traffic, the bridge that supposed to ease vehicular movement at Palanganatham is unusually calm with few two-wheelers and small vehicles passing by occasionally. The bridge constructed at a cost of around Rs 30 crore is yet to witness a formal inauguration as one of its arm extending towards Jaihindpuram is not yet completed. Two years ago, people started using the bridge and most of them now use it for walking in first place than driving. Gopalsamy R, a TOI reader, said that it stood as a symbol of a larger scam and was currently used as a den of thieves and rowdy elements using the stretch for anti-social activities. True to his allegations, the unfinished arm of the bridge is strewn with liquor bottles, some broken and rest intact. “Good drunkards leave the bottles intact and aggressive ones break them to shreds”, commented a two wheeler rider when stopped for a comment.  M Sheriff from Palanganatham said that it was very unsafe to travel on the bridge during nights. Police deployment is essential to ward off anti-social elements. In first place, the bridge should be given proper lighting, which will prevent all sort of these activities, he said.  The bridge was conceived to ease vehicular movement in Madakulam to TVS Nagar stretch in Palanganatham as traffic used to be chocked due to a presence of a railway level crossing. It was planned in Y shaped – one arm towards Madakulam leading to TVS Nagar with another arm stretching towards Jaihindpuram. The works which started in 2010 stalled, after completion of Madakulam – TVS nagar. Meanwhile, a subway was provided to eliminate level crossing, and the limited-use subway is utilized by smaller vehicles. After taken up, the design proved faulty as the U-turn in narrow Madakulam road turned out to be difficult for heavy vehicle maneuvering.  “The project was started during DMK regime in 2010. After regime change, it was simply abandoned during AIADMK rule. It will be useful once the Jaihindpuram stretch is also completed”, commented an auto rickshaw driver at Palanganatham, not willing to be quoted.  State Highways Department under Rural Roads scheme has taken up the project. The project is still be completed. From the starting, it has ran into complications including land acquisition and funding issues, official sources said. However there is a pressing public demand that it should be at least illuminated in night to keep away anti-social elements. 