Nagpur: Singers who performed in ‘Hits of RD Burman’ music programme did a splendid job by sticking to the rhythm for which Panchamda is famous for and got instant applause from the audience at Dr Vasantrao Deshpande Hall on Thursday. 

 Artistes paid a befitting tribute to RD on his death anniversary at a show organized by Swartarang Music Academy with the rendition of his compositions that wove a magic of sorts.
 
 Beginning with a pleasing instrumental piece of title song of popular film ‘Sholay’, the event was a nostalgic affair. Shreya Kharabe began well with ‘Do labzo ki hai’, followed by entertaining ‘Bachna ae haseeno’ by Niranjan Bobde.
 
 Bobde also brought forth a unique solo medley of popular hits like ‘Ratkali ek khwab mein aayee’, ‘Kehna hai’, ‘O hansini’ and ‘Aane wala’ which impressed the audience and received a thunder of claps.
 
 Anup Huddar sang ‘Jis gali me tera’ which he dedicated to his wife who passed away recently due to cancer. Post the tribute song, Huddar urged everyone to donate money to cancer patients and save their lives.
 
 Superhit numbers such as ‘Chehera hai ya chand’, ‘Mehbooba mehbooba’, ‘Pyaar hamein kis mod pe le aaya’, ‘Ek ladki ko dekha to aisa laga’, ‘Ek chatur nar’, ‘Yamma yamma’, ‘Kitna bhi tu karle sitam’ and many more were presented by Radhika Deshpande, Isbabul Hasan, Sanjeev Jagtap, Ashwin Motghare and Atul Kurve, besides others. 
 
 Visuals of songs in the backdrop made the experience all the more entertaining while interesting anecdotes by host Ajaz Khan kept the spectators spellbound. Khan also presented mimicry which was highly appreciated.
 
 Musical accompaniment was offered by Mahendra Dhole and Ajit Bhalerao on keyboard, Gaurav Tanksale on guitar, Subhash Wankhede on octopad, Pankaj Yadav on tabla, Ashok Tokalwar on dholak, Rajas Dhamankar on tumba and Sarthak on percussion. 
 
 Quotes
 
 * The songs were nicely selected and sung beautifully. Preparation of artistes for the show was evident in performances. I liked Radhika and Niranjan’s songs. Radhika's voice fits well with old songs
 
 Rajendra Singh Tawar | GST officer
 
 * The orchestra was flawless and song selection was apt. I liked the solo medley by Niranjan a lot. Atul is versatile. RD’s songs are always a treat to the ears 
 
 Neeta Anantwar | businesswoman
 
 * I was in awe of amazing performances. Atul’s songs were great and mimicry by the host was entertaining. The message to help cancer patients was kind gesture by the artistes. Rendition of ‘Mehbooba’ was the best
 
 Madhvi Talhar |Zumba instructor
 
 ends
 
 
