JAIPUR: Congress state president   and party workers staged a massive protest against ongoing water crisis in the state capital on Monday. Workers staged a dharna at nearly hundred circle offices of public health and engineering department (PHED) in 91 wards where they smashed earthen pots in protest.

 
 
 Pilot said, “Drinking water is not available in 50% of slum areas and colonies of Jaipur. If this is the situation in the state capital, imagine the water crisis situation in other parts of the state. It was the responsibility of the state government to draw an emergency plan before the onset of summers. Moreover, there should be a contingency plan to fight with the situation.”
 
 They said that neither the state government has increased the supply of water through tankers, nor from Bisalpur pipeline - which are two major sources of water supply in Jaipur.
 
 Party’s Jaipur district president Pratap Singh Khachariyawas demanded that the government should increase the supply from Bislapur within 24 hours. He added that there are many colonies where water is being supplied in two days while there is no shortage at residences of   ministers and chief minister.
 
 Singh threatened, “If the adequate water supply is not restored for the residents, we would break the earthen pots in front of chief minister Vasundhara Raje’s residence. Also we would disconnect the water connections of BJP ministers.”
 
 The party announced to intensify its protest if proper water supply is not made in the state. Many alleged that government officials are selling the tankers at higher rates and not supplying to the common people. Protesters further claimed that the state government would be responsible if law and order situation deteriorates due to water crisis.
 
 The sharp rise in temperature has led to a surge in demand for water across the state. In the state capital, over 150 colonies are reeling under water shortage. Protests for water in such colonies have become a routine affair now.
 
 Due to water crisis, colony residents have staged protests at PHED offices over 100 times in the recent past. Jyoti Sharma, a resident of  , said that for the past two months, they are not receiving water from the pipelines properly.
 
