PATNA: With the appointment of vice-chancellors and pro-vice chancellors, all the three newly created universities in the state are set to get going. Pataliputra, Munger and Purnia universities are likely to become fully functional with the commencement of the next academic session in July.

 With the establishment of these three universities the total number of universities in the state has reached 24. The state government also proposes to develop Patna Women’s College, a constituent unit of PU, into a full-fledged women’s university on the pattern of SNDT Women’s University, Mumbai.
 
 However, keeping in view the state’s population and the gross enrolment ratio in higher education, academics are sceptical whether the number sufficient for improving the higher education system. 
 
 Ever since the state got its first modern university in 1917 in the name of   (PU), it has witnessed a sluggish growth of higher education. PU managed the growth and development of higher education in the state till January 1952 when it was bifurcated into two – PU and B R A Bihar University. Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University and Ranchi University were created out of Bihar University in 1960. Two more universities – Magadh University and Kameshwar Singh Darbhanga Sanskrit University – were set up in 1961.
 
 In a bid to boost agriculture in the state,   was set up at Pusa in 1970. L N Mithila University was set up in 1973 and   in 1987. Jayaprakash University, Chhapra, B N Mandal University, Madhepura and Veer Kuer Singh University, Ara, were established in 1990, 1992 and 1994, respectively. Maulana Mazharul Haque Arabic and   was set up in Patna in 1998.
 
 The pace of opening new universities was accelerated during the regime of Nitish Kumar. Chanakya National Law University was founded in 2006, Aryabhatta Knowledge University in 2008 and Bihar Agricultural University in 2010. Besides, the Nava Nalanda Mahavihara (established in 1951) was accorded the status of a deemed university in 2006. In the meantime, an international university, in the name of Nalanda University, was set up in 2010. Two new central universities – Central University of South Bihar and Mahatma Gandhi Central University – were given to the state in 2009 and 2013, respectively.
 
 However, despite this supposedly vast expansion of higher education, the state is still being considered “educationally backward”. As per an educational survey conducted by the Union HRD ministry a few years back, Bihar has the lowest college density in the country. The state has just six colleges per one lakh students (18-23 years) against the national average of 26. Even Jharkhand is better placed with seven colleges per lakh eligible students. At the same time, Bihar has 2,142 students enrolled in each of 694 colleges on an average, the highest in the country, indicating a severe demand-supply mismatch, the survey revealed.
 
 Academics said the state government should also consider the proposal for creating many more smaller universities out of the existing universities seriously for ensuring proper growth of higher education. If the UK, with a population of a little over six crore, can have more than 100 class I universities, Bihar with a population of nine crore can easily have 50 to 60 universities, they pleaded. Even the National Knowledge Commission had, in its report, emphasized the need for creating smaller universities for their better management and also for enhancing the gross enrolment ratio in higher education.
 
 Federation of University and College Teachers’ Associations of Bihar working president K B Sinha and general secretary Sanjay Kumar Singh said mere opening of new institutions would not solve the crisis gripping higher education. “The universities and colleges must be run on a sound footing for ensuring proper career enhancement of local talents,” they said. 
 
 
