KOLKATA: The Kolkata traffic police has started implementing strict measures to make buses stick to the demarcated lanes and slap steep fines in case of violations.

 The police also began special drives to rein in rogue drivers across all the 25 traffic guards in Kolkata. Cops warned that multiple violations will lead to confiscation of buses and compounding of fines. Therefore, a Rs 100 fine can be scaled up to Rs 500 for repeat offenders.
 
 Prosecution for bus lane violations could not be carried out properly in the past for lack of dedicated bus lanes on some key stretches.
 
 
  
 
 According to DC (traffic)  , every major road in the city has dedicated lanes for buses now. "We have marked bus bays in bold yellow. In addition, we have introduced street furniture to demarcate these lanes. Thus, while   had bus lanes in place, we have introduced such lanes on other busy stretches such as Diamond Harbour Road and Khidderpore Road," Kumar said.
 
 So how does the system work? According to officers, all buses must compulsorily enter the designated lanes. "Those buses which do not want to enter the bay must not make unscheduled stops anywhere near the bus stop. Bus drivers holding up the lanes by waiting at a bus stop for too long will also be prosecuted," an official said.
 
 Under guidelines set by the  , it is mandatory for buses to ply on the extreme left of the roads and if they cross over to another lane, they are liable to be fined by the traffic police. However, the bus lane is not an exclusive one and other vehicles are allowed to use them.
 
 Kumar said, "We are monitoring the movement of buses through   cameras. Every illegal overtaking, speeding or racing will be recorded. When we match the driver to the bus, we will add the violation in the name of the driver."
 
 Kumar said they are going to introduce a carrot and stick policy. "Those following the law will be rewarded. Those violating them routinely will face the music," he said.
 
 During the U-17 World Cup, a similar system had been put in place to enforce road discipline. Police had slapped steep fines on offenders. It had proved to be an effective deterrent at the time. However, after the event, the fines had been reduced to Rs 100 and buses again started straying from the lanes, a traffic cop said.
 
 
