Chennai: At least 140 medical colleges, including nine from Tamil Nadu, have been denied permission to start new post-graduate degree and diploma courses or increase seats for their existing courses in 2018-19. A public notice published by the health ministry on Thursday said rejection letters have been sent to the concerned colleges by post.  The nine colleges in the state, including four government colleges — Vellore Medical College, Salem-based Mohankumaramangalam Medical College, Theni Medical College, and Stanley Medical College — have been denied permission to start various courses including degrees in paediatrics, dermatology, general medicine, opathalmology, anatomy and pathology. A senior MCI official said that the evaluation process has been reasonable this year.  “We did not approve courses if the college did not have adequate faculty or infrastructure,” he said, adding “While we understand that we cannot be stringent if more institutions want to run post graduate and specialist courses, we decided we will not compromise on minimum standards.”  Tamil Nadu health department said it will add 101 postgraduate medical seats across 14 government medical colleges during the 2018 admission season, taking the total PG seats in the state to 1,585. The state has been approved additional seats for Chennai-based hospitals Kilpauk Medical College (five seats in MD pathology) and Stanley Medical College (three seats in MD forensic medicine). Colleges in south TN — Thoothukudi Medical College (32), Tirunelveli Medical College (four) and Theni Medical College (11) — will get 47 seats in surgical and medical streams.  In the west, Coimbatore Medical College will get two seats, Salem three and Dharmapuri six. While Trichy will add 19 seats, Chengalpet gets 16.  The admission process for the academic year will begin in March with the sale of applications, TN selection committee member secretary Dr G Selvaraj said. “We are waiting for the National Board of Examination to send us the rank list for our state,” he added.