MANALI: Even though the Kullu-Manali airport has finally been connected by regular flights from Delhi and Chandigarh, very few people are showing interest in air travel due to extremely high airfare on both routes.

 Alliance Air, a subsidiary of Air India, is operating daily flights between Delhi and Kullu and Chandigarh and Kullu. The aircraft first conducts sortie from Delhi to Kullu at 6:45am and then to Chandigarh at 8:35am. The flight takes off from Chandigarh at 9:40am and lands in Kullu in 55 minutes. It again takes off from Kullu at 11:05am and lands at Delhi airport after 1 hour 25 minutes.
 
 However, the fare is exorbitant, which is why tickets are easily available despite the ongoing peak tourist season. One way fare on both   and Kullu-Delhi routes is generally more than 20,000. Hoteliers of the district had been demanding regular flights to Kullu. Now that the district is getting regular flights, hoteliers feel it is not of much benefit after all.
 
 Anil Sharma, who deals in flight booking, said few tourists travel by air due to the ticket cost. “We are happy that   has resumed its service on the Kullu-Chandigarh sector. But only chosen high-end tourists can afford to buy the ticket. Air travel is just a dream for local residents. The government should bring flights under UDAN ( ) scheme for low airfare,” he said.
 
 Kullu-Manali airport director AA Ansari said, “The airport has sorties from Delhi all seven days but the flight is being operated between Kullu and Chandigarh for six days a week, except for Sunday.”
 
 The runway of the airport in   is just 1,087m long and only small aircraft can land here. Depending on the size and weight of the aircraft, it cannot take off from the runway with all seats occupied as it will fail to acquire required speed.   river flows on the right side of the runway with high mountains on all four edges. Both landing and take-off from the runway is very risky. These factors keep private airlines away.
 
 The Airport Authority of India, with the help of IITs, conducted many surveys to explore the possibility of expanding the runway at Bhuntar in Kullu district but nothing happened on the ground. The government has assured expansion of the airport. One of the possibilities that engineers were looking at was to expand the runway by building a flyover over the Beas.
 
 
