NAGPUR: Rahul Gaikwad, whose age had created relentless confusion in the police and judiciary, managed to slip out of the district court housed in Nyay Mandir premises after the Addl Chief Judicial Magistrate (ACJM) had ordered him to be sent to jail on Wednesday. The constables from Dhantoli police station were busy collecting the order of the magisterial custody of   when the bag-lifting accused escaped from the court. 

 The CCTV cameras installed in the court premises have captured Gaikwad scampering down the stairs before stepping outside as cops on duty merely remained mute watchers as they had no clue about the youngster’s action. Gaikwad, who managed to dodge past the security layers of the court, landed on the road in front of the Nyay Mandir premises before heading towards the Akashwani chowk. 
 
 Gaikwad was rounded up by crime branch around a fortnight ago after his accomplice had been nabbed by passers-by after they were in the process of fleeing with a woman’s purse at Chhatrapati chowk having cash and some valuables. It’s learnt that Gaikwad, who do not seem to have any crime record as of now, had to repay a loan of Rs1,000 to someone else but his robbery bid had failed. An offence was registered at Dhantoli police station. 
 
 As per Aadhaar card, Gaikwad was a minor. His accomplice too was a minor. The cops had also recovered the stolen bag from Gaikwad and his co-accused. A medical examination was conducted upon Gaikwad after court ordered for it as his school leaving certificate showed him to be an adult. The outcome of the medical examination, however, had added to the confusion as his age group was declared to be between 16 and 18 years. The Dhantoli cops had shifted Gaikwad to Children Observation Home at Patankar Chowk after producing him before the court. His accomplice too had been already sent to the home earlier.
 
 It was on Wednesday that the   (JJB) came to a conclusion that Gaikwad was an adult on the basis of the records found in the school leaving certificate. The   had immediately informed Dhantoli police to shift away Gaikwad from the home where only minors are allowed to stay. Accordingly, he was produced before the Addl CJM by constables Satish Sagne and Rajesh. The constables are learnt to have not tied any rope around Gaikwad’s arm as they were still not sure about his age. 
 
 When the cops were engaged in the formalities, Gaikwad fled the spot leading to the registration of an offence at Sadar police station. A source from Sadar police station said CCTV footages are being scanned for clues. “The police stations across the city have been alerted especially   where Gaikwad stays,” said a senior officer from Sadar police station. 
 
 
