CHENNAI: In pursuit of alternatives to save the government if the Madras high court sets aside the disqualification of 18 rebel MLAs, the ruling   has offered to give the reins of the party to the   family, provided they keep T T V   at bay.

 Sources in the Sasikala family and the ruling party confirmed that   and O Panneerselvam sent some ministers to negotiate with the family. The barter: Don’t disturb the government. 
 
 Since January first week, ministers from Kongu region have been contacting Sasikala’s brother V Dhivaharan and other family members. Sources close to the ruling group said they were confident of winning over the ambitious   clan, but a deal could not be struck. 
 
 
  
 
 Despite the infighting within the family, members are reluctant to desert Dhinakaran, who has proven his leadership mettle by trouncing the mighty AIADMK and pushing the DMK to the third place in the   byelection in December. Moreover, Sasikala does not seem to be inclined towards sidelining Dhinakaran.
 
 “Some ministers came to us, but we have no inclination to change our stand,” said a family member close to Dhivaharan. 
 
 Another source said the ruling group had invited Dhivakaran for the party general council meeting in September last year and made an offer, but he said no. “We are sure that the party cadres are with us. A large number of cadres have worked for the victory of TTV in R K Nagar,” said the source.
 
 Those in the know of the developments said apart from re-inducting expelled leader   and other family members into the party, two key party posts have been offered to the Mannargudi family. Dhinakaran’s rising stocks in the legislative party and among the rank and file is giving sleepless nights to the ruling dispensation. Continuing mass expulsion of party functionaries and cadres is an indication that Dhinakaran’s influence spreads across many districts.
 
 The Dhinakaran camp, meanwhile, is not ready for any compromise that does not entail removal of EPS and OPS from the CM and deputy CM posts. Should Palaniswami step down, a section of MLAs is propping up school education minister K A Sengottaiyan as an alternative. 
 
 There are, however, not many takers for this proposition. “Edappadi will not agree for a compromise that involves his stepping down. Rather, he will go down with the ship. But ministers are a worried lot. They want the government to continue at any cost, even if it warrants a change of guard at the top,” said a source close to the chief minister.
 
 
