AURANGABAD: The waste   in the city has reached 76%, the civic authorities have said 

 The civic body has employed a slew of measures to ensure the segregation of garbage at source. The development has come as a sigh of relief to the civic body staffers, who were dubious about getting results soon.
 
  district collector Naval  , who is currently holding the additional charge of the civic body, told TOI, “As on date the segregation of the total garbage collected from the city has reached an impressive 76 per cent, which was 36 per cent on March 9.”
 
 The officer expressed confidence in taking it to over 90 per cent in next few days. Kishore, while taking an inspection of some dry waste segregation centres and compost pits on Sunday took a decision to get some more pits dug in different parts of the city for accommodating the   being produced daily by the city.
 
 The city produces about 430 metric tonnes of garbage on a daily basis, out of which a considerable amount is dry waste. Already the civic body has identified over 100 spots for processing wet waste, while the dry waste is being collected zone wise by creating a collection point in each of the nine zones.
 
 Kishore said, “As on date we have about 100 pits, where wet waste is scientifically being converted in to compost and in less than a month, we would be sharing this compost with the farmers, which would be a step towards sustainable development.”
 
 He said that daily zone wise records are being maintained to ascertain the amount of segregated waste that is being collected. “Constant efforts are being made to improve the segregation in the areas that are found to be less cooperative. With conviction I feel happy to inform that the segregation has reached an all time high of 76 per cent and the entire credit goes to the citizens as well as our sanitary staffers,” said the young IAS officer.
 
 In the past few days, the civic body using emergency funds to the tune of Rs 2 crores, have got composting pits constructed. Moreover, to avoid any delay in the construction of these pits, the civic body chief has given powers to the ward officers and ward engineers to sanction, allot the works and release funds accordingly. 
 
 
