BENGALURU: Dalit leader and newly elected Gujarat MLA   on Monday said he’ll campaign extensively in Karnataka for the upcoming assembly elections.

 Mevani was at the event marking the 56th birth anniversary of slain journalist-activist  , who was gunned down in front of her residence in Bengaluru on September 5, 2017. 
 
 The Gujarat lawmaker said he would be in Karnataka for three weeks during April 2018, to campaign against fascist forces. “Let’s collectively decide that we will root out Sangh and the   from Karnataka. We’ll make sure that out of the 20% Dalit votes in Karnataka, not even 20 votes will go to fascist forces,” he said. 
 
 He said Gauri never compromised and stood for constitutional values, something that younger leaders like him learnt from her. “When we raise issues like food, water, farmers’ suicide, public health and education, ‘they’ talk about Ghar Wapsi, Love Jihad and Gau Mata. That’s their agenda and it’s clear. They brand me as a ‘JNU product’ though I’m not,” he said. 
 
 He also said there are insinuations that the state government had paid for his ticket to Bengaluru to attend the Gauri event, when in fact, her sister Kavitha had paid for it.
 
 Coming down heavily on Prime Minister   and BJP president  , Mevani said fascist forces conspired against him and FIRs were filed against him when violence broke out in Koregaon, Maharasthra, though he was not involved in it.
 
 Former president of JNU students’ union Kanhaiya Kumar, who was present at the event, said Gauri always considered him her “ideological son”. He said when Gauri was killed, miscreants celebrated it on Twitter. “In Hindu religion when someone dies, food is not cooked till the body is cremated. But, people were tweeting celebrating someone’s death,” he said.
 
 Talking about the way forward, he said, “Stop chanting ‘Modi, Modi’, start saying ‘Gauri Gauri’.”
 
 There were talks by former vice-president of JNU students’ union Shehla Rashid, JNU student Umar Khalid, and student leader Richa Singh from Allahabad. Khalid said fascist forces were being programmed to be robots, and not think like humans. “We have so many robots around us. Either we think like humans or become robots,” he said.
 
 “RSS is a terrorist organization. Let’s not mince words. We don’t need lessons of patriotism, nationalism from right-wing forces,” said Shehla Rashid.
 
