GHAZIABAD:   has finalised a new plan for the Northern Peripheral Road (NPR). The modification was done after the UP power transmission department installed a power substation in Shamsher village a couple of months ago. This was coming in the way of the older NPR plan causing the GDA to chart the new plan.

 Ravinder Godbole, GDA secretary, said, “The first phase of NPR, which passes through Ghaziabad, had been initially planned on a 15km stretch from Dasna to Loni. However, once we realised the substation came up right in the middle of NPR route, we had to change it. Now, six months later, the re-alignment plan is ready and we can now move ahead with the work.”
 
 He added, “According to new plan, the NPR will bypass Shamser village, where transmission substation has come up. Instead, we will take a 3.5km detour before this village and will merge before   Kurd village.”
 
 
  
 
 
 
 However, the challenge before GDA would be to initiate the process of land acquisition again. “As per the new plan, we will need 35,000 sq m of land for the NPR while at the same time will have to forgo 40,000 sq m, which we had acquired under the old plan,” said Godbole. 
 
 The GDA had acquired close to 200 acres of land from eight villages and paid close to Rs 500 crore as compensation to the farmers.
 
 “Though majority of the compensation amount has been disbursed, we have held back compensation of three villages — Shamsher, Champat Nagar and Bhenara — after the need for a re-alignment plan to bypass the transmission substation,” he added.
 
 The NPR was conceived to tackle the huge traffic movement to the northern and western parts of the state via Ghaziabad. Vehicles at present pass through NH-24, the NH-58, which was de-notified; NH-91 and the state highway. With an urgent need to provide better road connectivity to a township like Raj Nagar Extension, the NPR will also keep heavy traffic from city roads at bay. 
 
 The 15km NPR stretch will start from Dasna and connect the Pipeline Road near Hindon, Tila Mod, Koyal Enclave, Bhopra, Tulsi Niketan. The expected cost of the project is about Rs 300 crore.
 
 
