Aapnu Amdavad has a lot to boast about. From being the first city to have been declared India’s first Unesco World Heritage City to being home to some prime educational institutes, this city has gained prominence on the global map. Having said that, the city has its share of dark spots too. The fast diminishing   in the city is one of them. India’s fifth largest city has a tree cover of approximately 35 crores (as per a 2017 census), which although is 13% more than the number of trees in 2013, is still not enough. The ongoing metro project has also led to a lot of felling of trees. Taking into consideration all this,   (AMC) has decided to build   in the city. It recently set up a small vertical garden along one of the pillars at the flyover at Helmet crossroads.
 
  What are vertical gardens?
  Essentially vertical gardens are the kind of gardens that grow vertically, along walls or pillars, with the help of trellis (which are wooden frames) or similar support systems. Such gardens allow people to make use of limited spaces and is an excellent way to give a ‘green’ boost.
  Vertical gardens generally make use of drip irrigation to water the plants, since traditional forms of watering plants will not be applicable to this form of a garden. These gardens, given their complex structure, are difficult to maintain.
  In March 2017, Bengaluru became the first city in India to set up vertical gardens in the city. AMC followed the suit a year later. Repeated attempts were made to get in touch with AMC officials but nobody was willing to comment on the same.
  
  Green’s the word
  Leading environmentalist, Katrikeya Sarabhai, shares his opinion on the same, “Our city needs to be much greener. City municipality can invest in road-side plantations to make sure that the city is greener. Given that the city has limited space for tree plantations, vertical gardening would introduce the possibility of a different kind of plantation in the city. The AMC has taken a lead in showing people the existence of another possibility, and that is a good thing”.
  Having said that, he adds that vertical gardens will not be able to compensate for the lack of green cover in the city. “Vertical Garden is not the main solution, but is a good possibility. It is required. People need to realize the fact that in any situation, there is a green alternative possibility. One has to see how the concept of vertical gardening evolves and gains acceptance,” concludes Sarabhai.
  This is the first public initiative by the city to install vertical gardens. A number of hotels, residences and commercial buildings in the city now have vertical garden installations. Paresh Patel, owner of a shop that specializes in vertical garden says, “We mostly sell vertical gardens to offices, hotels and other similar commercial set-ups. There are very little orders from individuals as it is difficult to maintain”.
  The lack of green cover in the city is a matter of serious concern. Although we have a long way to go in terms of making this city green, city officials are giving their best to make this city greener.  , Ahmedabad mayor, says, "We recently organized the annual flower show at the Sabarmati Riverfront Garden. We want more people to plant trees in their homes and office spaces. The flower show played an important role in encouraging people to adopt this idea. Several nursery stalls were part of the show and lots of people bought plants, saplings and home gardening material from there."
  So, it's time to go green and vertical too.
