KOLKATA: After a   that lasted the longest in the recent past, the mercury rose above the 12°C mark on Sunday. And it is unlikely that the temperature will dip below 12°C again this season since the   says the   is over. However, even if the  , nights will continue to be cold while the days will be pleasant.

 The minimum temperature on Sunday, at 13.5°C, was one notch below normal. The next few days will see the night temperature hovering between 13°C and 14°C while the day temperature will be around 26°C-27°C.
 
 “Climatologically speaking, the peak winter is over. It is unlikely for the mercury to dip below 12°C again under normal circumstances. The minimum temperature will rise slowly from now and by Tuesday, we expect it to come around to the normal mark. The rise will not be abrupt, but gradual,” said G K Das, director (weather) at Regional Meteorological Centre, Kolkata.
 
 However, even though the mercury is set to rise in Kolkata, Darjeeling might get its first snowfall of the season either on Wednesday or Thursday. A western disturbance that is developing over the Sikkim region may also trigger rain in northern parts of Bihar.
 
 “This western disturbance could trigger snowfall in Sikkim and parts of higher Darjeeling, and rain in parts of Bihar. Once this happens, the mercury in Kolkata could go down slightly. But it is unlikely to dip below 12°C,” Das said.
 
 Another western disturbance over Jammu and Kashmir has started blocking the path of the northwesterly wind. This weather system is expected to cause rain in Jammu and Kashmir from Monday onwards.
 
  
  
 
 This January has seen the longest cold spell when the mercury stayed sub-12°C for nine days at a stretch. The minimum temperature dipped to 11°C on January 5 and touched10.5°ConJanuary11.The absence of any big weather system to disturb the flow of the cold and dry northerly wind has helped the mercury to stay below the normal mark this year for such a long stretch.
 
 The last seven years have seen the mercury dipping below 12°C in the fag end of January twice each in 2016 and 2013, and once in 2012. Barring these years, the minimum temperature had either crossed the normal mark or was about to. Last January 21, the mercury touched 14.2°C while it shot up to 17.9°C on the same date in 2016.
 
 
