LUDHIANA: A local court sentenced a man to life imprisonment for murdering a married woman with whom he had alleged illicit relations. The court of additional sessions judge Virinder Aggarwal also imposed a fine of Rs 1.1 lakh on the convict and in default of payment, he would have to undergo an imprisonment of two years more.

 On July 7, 2012, Sidhwan Bet police booked 40-year-old   Singh of Chuhriwal in   under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC for killing   Kaur.
 
 When SHO inspector Jangjit Singh, investigating officer (IO), received information about the death of Gurcharan, whose body was lying at Jagraon civil hospital, his team reached there.
 
 Surjit Singh, the complainant, gave statement that they were four brothers and his elder brother Des Raj died in 2007. Gurcharan Kaur, wife of Des Raj, lived with her children in an adjoining house. Accused Mohinder Singh, who is a relative of Gurcharan, started visiting her and later they developed some differences.
 
 On the fateful night, Gurcharan and her family were sleeping in the courtyard of the house with lights on. At 1am, Surjit heard hue and cry and the family got up. They saw Mohinder armed with a sword with stains of blood. He fled towards the area bridge. They chased him, but he escaped taking the cover of darkness. When they returned, they saw bleeding Gurcharan lying on a cot.
 
 It was alleged that Gurcharan had illicit relations with Mohinder and he suspected that she had an affair with someone else too. The accused was arrested from Bhaini Raian bus stop and the police later recovered the unsheathed sword hidden at the cremation ground of Hujjran village.
 
 During the trial, the accused pleaded innocence and cried frame-up. He said he was implicated as kin of the deceased got to know about their relationship.
 
 When the defence said the sword was not produced during the trial, the court observed that recovery of the weapon of offence was only a corroborative piece of evidence. The court also observed that the complainant, who is brother-in-law of the deceased, her daughter and son deposed that they woke up on hearing the shrieks of Gurcharan and saw the accused standing near her armed with a blood-stained kirpan. The witnesses are close relatives of Gurcharan and would not save the offender in order to implicate the accused.
 
  
 
