AHMEDABAD: While the state administration has issued directions that offences be registered against those who resort to violence while protesting against the release of “Padmaavat”,   has gone a step farther. The city police has threatened to impose Section 308 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) — attempt to commit culpable homicide — for violent protests inside malls, multiplexes, and other enclosed spaces.

 In a strong letter to his subordinates, city police commissioner A K Singh said, “Multiplexes are dark and congested spaces vulnerable to stampedes. Miscreants are well aware that protests in such places may cause chaos and damage to property and life. Thus, cops should register an offence under Section 308 of the IPC.”
 
 K L N Rao, the special commissioner of police, Sector I, said: “All malls and multiplexes have been provided moving and static police bandobast from Sunday, which includes armed   personnel.”
 
 In-charge DGP, Pramod Kumar, also stressed that stern action would be taken against violent protesters. “Some 20 cases related to those protesting against the release of “Padmaavat” have been registered in   and over 100 persons have been arrested.” He said that security on highways and sensitive areas has also been increased. “We will provide security cover to theatre-owners who are willing to release the film,” he said.
 
 There was a massive traffic jam on the Ahmedabad-Udaipur highway near Bhiloda, as Rajput protesters burnt tyres on the road.
 
  (SRRKS) denies any role in torching of buses in Gujarat. “We don’t know who burnt the buses and blocked highways,” said  , the president of SRRKS-Gujarat. “We are repeatedly urging community members to hold peaceful protests. There is no need for violence as multiplexes have assured us that they will not screen the movie.” Most multiplex owners are firm about not showing “Padmaavat”. “Unless the dispute is resolved, I will not screen the film at my multiplex,” said Manubhai Patel, the president of the  . “If the GSRTC can suspend services, commoners like us will prefer being safe than sorry.” 
 
 
