KALYAN: The   (KDMC) had auctioned builder Asif Zojwala’s property a couple of hours before he was found hanging in his bungalow on Monday. Zojwala’s two properties—one in   and another in Titwala—were auctioned as he failed to pay Rs 7.5 crore open land tax (OLT).

 Kalyan and   builders said they had been protesting against the civic body’s high OLT and blamed civic co- mmissioner P Velarasu for the death. They said KDMC has the highest OLT in the state. 
 
 A source said, on Monday, after the auction, Zojwala was very worried and was seen talking to some developers about moving the court. A builder told TOI if KDMC continues its apathy, all developers may take such an extreme step.
 
 Ravi Patil, vice-president of MCHI, said, “We have been fighting against the tax. Among C-Category corporations, KDMC charges the highest OLT.” He further said that the KDMC had last month finally passed a resolution in the general body meeting to reduce OLT, but Velarasu had been sitting on it and had not sent the proposal to the state government for approval.
 
 Patil also claimed that after the auction, Zojwala had raised the tax issue on a builders’ social media group.
 
 Mayur Haria, another developer who was one of the last persons to speak to Zojwala, told TOI, “My property was also sealed and auctioned. Zojwala called me up and discussed the next course of action. He was very upset.”
 
 The KDMC had fined Zojwala Rs 7.5 crore, including interests and late fees, for the two properties collectively admeasuring over 4,000 sqm. However, if his close friends are to be believed, Zojwala had claimed that his actual tax liability was only Rs 1.29 crore and he was ready to pay that. He had told his friends that he had met Velarasu but the latter had told him he had to pay 75% LBT on the open land tax.
 
 As Zojwala failed to pay the amount, last month, KDMC sealed the two properties—one of it was auctioned on February 14 and the second one on Monday. Zojwala’s relatives confirmed he was upset. 
 
 Velarasu told TOI: “The allegations that i did not take serious note of Zojwala’s issues are wrong. Last month, KDMC sent a proposal to reduce OLT but it will be implemented in the next financial year. Till then, builders will have to pay at the current rate.”
 
 
