NAGPUR: The state government has made mandatory for 13 municipal councils — nine from the district, two from Bhandara and one from Wardha districts — to supply sewage for treatment to the NMC-run sewage treatment plants (STP) situated at Bhandewadi dumping yard.

 The state’s urban development department (UDD) had issued a notification in this regard on December 30 last year. But the   came to know about the notification after receiving proposals from three municipal councils — Kalmeshwar, Wadi and Kanhan-Pipri — a few days ago.
 
 The remaining 11 municipal councils are Mauda, Ramtek, Mahadula, Saoner, Khapa, Katol, Umred, Mohpa from the district, Paoni and   from Bhandara district and   and Sindhi from Wardha district.
 
 The government has issued similar directives to other municipal councils in the state and linked with nearby municipal corporations that have STPs. Municipal corporations and councils will get some points under Swachh Survekshan-2018 for treatment of sewage. This is also said to be an another reason behind the government’s decision.
 
 An NMC official told TOI, “The proposals of three municipal councils along with notification has been submitted to the general body for taking decision. The general body is likely to take a positive decision as the missive is from the government, that too under Swachh Bharat Mission.”
 
 Municipal councils have no STPs and also cannot afford installation and running them due to financial crisis. Municipal councils construct septic tanks in the towns for disposing of sewage. Sewage flows from septic tanks once full into nullahs that join one or the other river. Also, sewage is released directly into nullahs that reach rivers.
 
 As per the notification, the municipal councils will have to pump sewage from septic tanks and supply up to the NMC’s STPs.
 
 The NMC is running STP with installed capacity of 130 MLD. Another STP with capacity of 200 MLD is likely to be commissioned this month.
 
 The problem is likely to crop up for municipal councils. Some municipal councils like Wadi, Mauda and Mahadula are situated close to the city. But other municipal councils are 30-70km from the city. A big question arises whether the municipal councils will be able to bear the cost of pumping, tankers and transportation.
 
 Municipal councils’ benefit: Treatment of sewage will ensure prevention from contamination of ground water, pollution of water bodies and soil. Also, it will help in preventing spread of diseases. Reuse of treated sewage will conserve raw water. Additional marks will be obtained in Swachh Survekshan
 
 NMC’s benefit: Treated sewage from NMC’s STPs is supplied to thermal power stations. NMC’s revenue will increase. Also, the civic body will get some additional points in Swachh Survekshan
 
 Hurdles: Municipal councils will have to pump out sewage from septic tanks or from sumps/intake wells to be built on nullahs. Then, sewage will have to be transported to NMC’s STPs at Bhandewadi dumping yard. Transportation of sewage requires specially designed sewage suction and conveyance vehicles. All these will come at a cost
 
 
