There’s already a strong buzz around ' ', helmed by Shashanka Ghosh. With the film hitting the screens tomorrow, the makers list out reasons that make it a must-watch. Read on...

 
 A movie that celebrates girls and their guys, 'Veere Di Wedding' cannot be labelled. Above everything else, it celebrates friendship, unadulterated fun and conversations between four friends for life. The story is all the more relevant, because in today’s times, friends are the new family. 
 
 
 The film brings together   and  , who are among Bollywood’s most successful heroines, today. Powerhouse performers Swara Bhasker and   complete the ensemble cast. 
 
 
 The soundtrack of the movie, with its mix of distinct songs, has already garnered a lot of publicity. While 'Tareefan' has become a new party anthem for the youth, 'Bhangra Ta Sajda' adds more zing to a typical Punjabi wedding song. The title track, 'Veere', lends a vacay vibe. 
 
 
 
 While Bollywood has churned out many films on male bonding, the audience will now get a peek into the friendship between women. Filled with humour and unadulterated fun, everyone will relate to the chemistry between the girls — Kareena, Sonam, Swara and Shikha. 
 
 
 This is not a movie about a typical Indian shaadi. The lavish sets and well-dressed cast dancing at their veere’s ‘sangeet gone wrong’ gives a hint of what’s in store for the viewers. The story, which revolves around a wedding full of madness and imperfections, makes it a roller-coaster ride for everyone. 
 
 
 Two successful and talented female producers — Rhea Kapoor and Ekta Kapoor — have come together for the first time. Their vision, of course, has found a solid supporter in co-producer Nikhil Dwivedi. 
 
 
 The clothes worn by the leading ladies are already popular, as they are real, relatable yet aspirational. Designer duo Abu Jani and Sandeep Khosla have worked on an exclusive line for the film, marking their return to films after 15 years. Rhea Kapoor, who is known for setting style statements, has styled the girls. 
 
 Balaji Telefilms, in association with Saffron Broadcast Media Ltd, present Anil Kapoor Film & Communication Network’s 'Veere Di Wedding', which releases tomorrow.
 
