PATNA: State   Mangal Pandey on Thursday said the government would provide all necessary assistance to visually impaired kids for their better future.

 Addressing a function organised by Bihar Netraheen Parishad to mark World Braille Day, the 209th birth anniversary of Louis Braille, Pandey said, “The day signifies the importance of teaching and providing equal opportunity to blind people and highlights the problems faced by them. The government is aware of the problems and will provide all assistance to visually impaired kids for their better future.”
 
 General secretary of Parishad Nawal Kishore Sharma said the Braille system is a representation of letters and symbols within a grid in rows. “Louis Braille created the system after he went blind at the age of five due to an accident. The system has been very helpful in giving an opportunity to blind people to get education alongside their peers and be able to read at their impulses.”
 
 Sharma urged the government to increase the pension amount for visually impaired child from Rs 400 to Rs 1,000 per month. He also called for scholarship for the kids, upgradation of the Rajkiya Netraheen schools to senior secondary level, allotment of government land on 50% rebate and appointment of a disability commissioner, who is aware of law, in the state.
 
 Vice-president of Parishad Raghunath Prasad Singh and former joint secretary of building construction department Umesh Kumar also shared their views. 
 
 Meanwhile, Seema Kumari, a Class V student, won the first prize in dance competition organised at Anterjyoti Netraheen Balika Vidyalaya to mark the day. Class VII student Rabia got the second prize and Anita Kumari of Class IV third prize. Patna additional SP Rakesh Dubey, chief guest, congratulated the winners and appreciated their hard work.
 
 Students also participated in Braille Reading-Writing competition. The winner of the competition was Kajal Kumari (Class X) and second and third prizes were bagged by Manju (Class VIII) and Khushboo (Class VII), respectively.
 
 School secretary Vijay Singh said the function was aimed at encouraging the visually impaired children to make it big. “We help these kids to remain part of mainstream of society by reading and writing like a normal person,” he said.
 
 
