NOIDA: The city police will seek the remand of Harendra Pradhan, accused of plotting to kill land mafioso  , as they believe someone else must have tipped him to plan the murder.

 Pradhan was arrested by a Delhi police team on Friday night following a chase and shootout. Officers in Noida said a five-member team from Sector 49 police station had gone to Delhi on Saturday to question Pradhan but did not get much opportunity to interrogate him because of some “legal formalities”.
 
 Pradhan had been accused of hiring two shooters for Rs 5 lakh each to murder Moti over a plot worth Rs 14 crore. But the cops believe Pradhan might have planned the murder at the behest of someone else.
 
  had on April 24 arrested two persons — Amit and Rahul — believed to have shot dead Moti. Sources said sustained questioning had revealed that the plan to murder Moti had been hatched in one of Harendra’s flats in Noida’s Pi 3 Sector. Harendra, a Dankaur strongman, is the husband of the former pradhan of Kanarsi village and has several cases pending against him.
 
 According to sources, Amit and Rahul had followed Moti from a CBI court on April 16 and shot him dead on a vacant plot. Pradhan had apparently remained seated in his car and pointed out Moti to the two shooters.
 
 Noida police are now trying to establish links between Pradhan and old rivals of Moti. The slain land grabber’s family had in an earlier complaint named four of his friends — former business partner Brij Pal Nagar, Baghpat residents Vikram and Vijay, whom Moti had allowed to operate a dairy on a part of his plot where he was eventually killed, and Anil Nagar, son of local Congress member Phire Singh Nagar.
 
 Sources said the alleged killers could have had links with Anil, his father-in-law Ompal and a friend Onkar.
 
 Gautam Budh Nagar SSP Ajay Pal Sharma said his force would apply for Pradhan’s remand as soon as Delhi police were done with his questioning. “We are in touch with them. A police coordination meeting was also held between officers of UP, Haryana, Delhi and Rajasthan where such matters of common concerns had come up,” he said.
 
 There was also speculation about the way Pradhan was nabbed on Friday night. “He did not even have a scratch and was all smiles when he was produced before the media,” an officer pointed out.
 
 DCP (south-east Delhi) Chinmoy Biswal told TOI the case should essentially be probed by the police in Noida. Told there was speculation that the encounter had been staged, he said: “A criminal was absconding and we have arrested him. We have taken him in remand because a carbine was recovered from him.”
 
 
