CHENNAI: Four housing projects certified “structurally complete” by the directorate of town and country planning (DTCP) in Kancheepuram have come under scanner after consumers complained that they were actually incomplete. 

 These projects were among the batch of 130 others which were certified by the planning authority in November 2017. These are out of the radar of the   Regulatory Authority (TNRERA), but the realty regulator has received complaints against them and sought the DTCP to furnish inspection reports of the specific projects. “A communication has been sent to DTCP asking them to provide the inspection reports of the four projects as complainants said the housing projects are incomplete and should be considered ongoing projects. In one case three complaints have been filed against one particular project,” said a TNRERA official. Home buyers are irked that promoters are delaying handing over the units, sources added.
 
 DTCP as the planning authority does not have the provision of completion certificate like the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority. The problem partially stems from a technical ambiguity in the   Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Rules, 2017, which notified by the state on June 22, 2017 allowed the DTCP to declare ongoing projects structurally complete. Constructions were considered structurally complete if all the columns, beams and slabs were erected and certified by the architect or structural engineer or a licensed surveyor associated with the project supported with photographs. Such projects had filed applications with the concerned local planning authority or regional deputy director of DTCP for the purpose and were kept out of the purview of TNRERA. 
 
 But there are also instances of violation. In November last year, the DTCP had released the list of 188 projects that have applied seeking to be certified as structurally complete. Of these, TNRERA issued notices to about 50 projects that had pending work. “But, these complaints are pertaining to projects that were declared as structurally complete,” the official said.
 
 However, developers observed that projects that met the conditions of RERA should not be reviewed. “The situation does not arise to review the projects, when the housing projects have fulfilled  ,” said Confederation of   Developers Association of India (Credai), Tamil Nadu, president Ajit Kumar Chordia.
 
 When contacted, a DTCP official said the buildings were declared as structurally complete only after site inspections.
 
 
