PUNE: For the first time in the country,   has conceived and is showing good embryonic growth. 

 
 
  
 Doctors have confirmed that the 27-year-old   has entered her eighth week of pregnancy with a regular gestational sac, yolk sac and foetal heartbeat. This was the second time that the woman had undergone the embryo transfer to get pregnant.
 
 The presence of an embryo within the yolk sac is an indication that the embryo is growing well and that the risk of a miscarriage has decreased, doctors say. The woman had undergone the womb transplant surgery in Pune on May 19 last year.
 
 The other woman, a 22-year-old from Solapur who was the first   case, had also conceived following the first single-embryo transfer. 
 
 However, she miscarried during the fifth week of pregnancy, recently. She was the first to undergo the transplant on May 18, 2017.
 
 Doctors are hopeful that the Vadodara woman has good chances of a normal pregnancy in view of her present pregnancy indicators. If so, the woman is expected to deliver in December. She will be the first woman in the country to deliver a baby after a uterus transplant.
 
 “It is a precious pregnancy. We are closely monitoring her condition at all times. She is being taken care of at our hospital till she finishes her first trimester (three months of pregnancy),” transplant surgeon Shailesh Puntambekar of   told TOI.
 
 The woman, a beautician, received her mother’s uterus. “We need to understand that it (the uterus) is delivering after 20 years (the time from the mother’s last delivery). As the nerves are not transplanted the woman will not feel the pain of an abortion. So clinical and sonography monitoring will have to be carried out vigilantly,” Puntambekar said.
 
 Till she completes 12 weeks, the doctors have planned full medical supervision. The woman will have to undergo serial ultrasound sonography for foetal growth and anomalies, blood tests to check the level of drugs that lower the body's ability to reject a transplanted organ (immune-suppressants) and periodic blood sugar tests as she is prone to developing diabetes. Her diet is also being prepared under the guidance of a nutritionist.
 
 The hospital’s gynaecologist Milind Telang said, “The woman is on immune-suppressants which makes her prone to developing diabetes and pregnancy-induced hypertension.”
 
 There are other concerns in the pregnancy with a transplanted womb that include intrauterine growth retardation and premature delivery. 
 
 The hospital was following a strict antenatal monitoring, its gynaecologist and in-vitro fertilisation expert Pankaj Kulkarni said.
 
 
