KOTTAYAM: In a major breakthrough in investigation into the abduction and murder of  , the special investigation team ( ) recovered four machetes allegedly used in the crime, on Sunday. 

 The probe team also recreated the crime scene by taking the accused to Mannanam and Thenmala. 
 
 The SIT officials said the chargesheet in the case will be submitted in two months. The officials also said they have not yet received any evidence against Neenu's mother Rahana to make her an accused in the case. 
 
 SIT sources also said the possibility that Kevin might have been forcibly held under water with an intention to kill has been ruled out as there are no marks on his body to indicate the same. Either Kevin might have fallen into water and drowned while escaping from the gang or he might have been thrown into the river after he was brutally beaten up. In both cases, the offence is the same and it amounts to murder, said a senior officer. 
 
 Meanwhile IG  , the head of the SIT, is expected to file a detailed report on the lapse on the part of the police by Monday. Sakhare said the recovery of the machetes is a very important development in the investigation. The machetes, which the accused used, were recovered from a canal near the house of Vishnu, one of the accused. 
 
 The SIT also took Fazal, Niyaz, Nishad and Vishnu to the spot of crime in Thenmala. They were taken to a petrol pump at Edamon in Thenmala where they allegedly plotted to abduct Kevin.
 
  Kottayam SP Harishankar said the SIT could get a clear picture of the murder after recreating 90-95% of the crime scene.
 
 The accused were taken to the spot near the canal, where the body of Kevin was found. The accused also showed the SIT the path through which they claim Kevin had escaped. 
 
 Harishankar said that Kevin was brutally beaten up inside the vehicle at this spot. When Kevin heard another vehicle approaching, he could have fled for life as a last resort. Aneesh had also recorded in the FIR that he heard someone saying that Kevin had jumped. 
 
 Harishankar also said the allegation that Rahana had showed the house of Kevin to the accused is not true. So far there are no evidence against her, he said. 
 
 Sakhare reiterated that the police officers who are facing departmental and legal action would not be named accused in the  . They only failed to discharge their duties, he said.
 
 
