HYDERABAD: To curb malpractices in the  , which are set to commence from Thursday, the state government has decided to assign invigilation duties to languages teachers during non-language subjects and vice versa.

 Briefing the media on arrangements made for the smooth conduct of examinations this year, G Kishan, commissioner and director, department of school education (DSE), said about 38,000 invigilators and 148 flying squads will be in place to curb malpractices this year. As many as 5,38,867 students from 11,103 schools will be writing their Class 10 board exams this year at 2,542 centres across the state.
 
  
 “We have taken all the necessary measures to ensure that exams are conducted in a fair manner. CCTV cameras have been installed in 26 sensitive centres. Also, this year, invigilators will be assigned duties in such a manner that language teachers will be on invigilating duty during other subject exams and other   during languages exam,” said Kishan, adding that all the centres have basic facilities like fans, lights, and benches.
 
 He advised students to reach their assigned centres at least 45 minutes in advance.
 
 The commissioner asked students not to try passing the exams just by memorizing or copying as such practices affect the quality of education in the state. He said cases will booked against students and invigilators under the Telangana Public Examination Act if found guilty of malpractice.
 
 Stating that it has come to the department’s attention that some schools are recruiting 10th pass or intermediate failed candidates as water boys to help students cheat in the exam, he said such practices will be dealt with firmly.
 
 “We have also advised schools against employing young boys as water boys or using an adjacent building, in the same premises as exam centres, to conduct classes for any other work. Also, we have advised them against sending more than one candidate at a time to use the washroom. That candidate too will be sent with an escort so that he won’t be able to interact with anyone in the hallway,” he said.
 
 He said Section 144 will be in place near exam centres and asked the local police to make sure that photocopying centres around examination halls are closed during the exams.
 
 The commissioner of school education asked the chief superintendents in charge of each centre to maintain a register and take a written undertaking from invigilators that they will be accountable for any incidents of copying taking place under their watch.
 
 He also assured students from schools, who had failed to renew their recognition, that they will be allowed to write the exam. However, he said action will be initiated against the errant school managements.
 
 
