Coimbatore: A group of engineering students from a city college have designed a simple and cost-effective hysteroscope, that could be a boon for doctors and patients alike. A hysteroscope is a thin, lighted telescope-like device inserted into uterus for examining and operating in a procedure called hysteroscopy. Hysteroscopes in use have a fixed camera and are not much flexible. Also, they have only a single light source, limiting visibility. The hysteroscope designed by four third year Computer Science students at the Sri Ramakrishna Engineering College uses an elementary mechanical contraption – a nut and bolt mechanism – to address these limitations. They designed the device as part of TECHgium, an industry-academia initiative organised by L&T Technology Services — a national-level technical contest — in which they came first, said Keerthana Mithra Murugan, a member of the group. “The problem statements were given six months ago. We chose to address three problems, of which the solution we posed for the hysteroscope got selected. The existing hysteroscopes use a telescopic lens at the doctor’s end, which has a predetermined angle. We chose to move the camera to the patients’ end and also make it move to get a 360-degree view of the cavity. Our design was for a diagnostic hysteroscope,” she told TOI. The camera they used is embedded with six LED lights to give better visibility of the uterine cavity, said P Pranesh, another member of the team. “Ours is a purely mechanical device. The nut and bolt mechanism we have given at the proximal end is connected to a string, which would affect the camera’s motion,” he added. The students said they have also made the device space-efficient by embedding the lights in the camera, thus doing away with an extra component for light source. “We made the prototype at a cost of Rs 20,000. We hope this would bring down the cost of hysteroscopy,” said Keerthana. In course of research for the project, the students also watched a live hysteroscopy procedure in a hospital. Kaviya Kumaresan and B Pavithra were also part of the team. They were honoured at TECHgium held in Bengaluru recently. Though they are Computer Science students, they were able to adapt the basics of mechanics, said professor of Mechanical Engineering department A Murugarajan, who guided them.