In his heart-wrenching Twitter DP — an illustration —   still has his arm around his late teammate, Australian cricketer Phil Hughes. “I still have his number on my phone. Even four years after he is gone, it is not easy to talk about his death,” he says while answering questions from journalist   at an interactive event organised by Young Leaders Forum in the city. From his personal setbacks to his rise from the ashes like a phoenix with the World Cup win as the captain — the cricketer spoke about various shades of his extraordinary life. CT caught up with the cricketer, who was in the city recently as part of the   commentary team, for a brief chat. Excerpts…

 
 
 You get the best biryani in the world (laughs). I love biryani, I love Indian food. Why I love India the most — because of its people. They are so lovely. I love my country and I won’t live anywhere else. But every time I come here I get so much love. Indian people are very kind, very giving.
 
 
 Oh yes! Sweets (rolls his eyes)! Every time I come here, my friends feed me more and more sweets and that gets me to the gym for four hours (laughs). But yeah, sweets here are unbelievable. And I got a sweet tooth as well. Ice cream and chocolate are my greatest weakness. 
 
 
 I think T20 has made cricket more popular than before. It is entertaining and I can see more women and children are enjoying the game. However, I am selfish as a cricketer. I want Test cricket and one-day internationals to be as popular as T20. These three formats of cricket should stand on the same ground — no one should stand on a higher pedestal. A great cricketer is one who can mix tradition with modernity — one who can score a century in Tests and also hit a ton in T20. Take   for instance. His game is consistent in Test matches, ODIs, as well as T20.
 
 
 
 I don’t think so, and I hope not. Like I said, I still feel it’s about trying to get young boys and girls to play our sport — it doesn’t necessarily matter if they are playing T20 or ODIs. As long as they are choosing cricket, whatever format, it is a positive thing for our game. 
 
 
 Yeah I did! It’s a four-leaf clover for my daughter. Her initials (K and L, for Kelsey-Lee) are engraved. And there is a lot of Indian meaning in the tattoo with the pattern and all.
 
 
 
