Ludhiana: In a unique achievement of its sort, a fitness professional from the city successfully completed the difficult and dangerous six-day   in the Zanskar region of Jammu and Kashmir. Ranbir Singh Rana (43) of Model Town Extension is known for carrying out various adventures, including cycling to Leh from Manali, trekking to Hemkunt Sahib, and the Great Himalyan National Reserve, to bike expedition in Sach Pass.

 “About 12 years ago, I had seen this documentary on how difficult life is for people of Zanskar region, with some villages having connectivity for only four months. Later, I got to know that some villagers in the same region use the famous Chaddar route to walk to nearby towns, but this route is open for only a month or so. Then, some years ago, the administration there allowed trekkers to carry out trekking on the route, which is now famous as Chaddar Trek. Last year, I couldn’t go due to inclement weather. However, this year, I had already made a plan for it,” said the deeply spiritual Ranbir Singh.
 
 He added: “I joined a group of 18 persons from various states and cities of India, including Mumbai, Delhi, and Karnataka. I was the lone Punjabi in that group. On January 21, we hired a tempo from Leh and reached Chiling. The next day, we started a one-side 45km trek from that area. After covering about one-third of the journey, we did tenting on the riverside and stayed there for the night. The next day, we reached Tibb caves where we stayed for the night.” They reached the last point at Nereck village, which had a frozen waterfall, and stayed there for the night before returning in another three days.
 
 The avid trekker from the city said: “It is one of the toughest treks in the country, as the route is uncertain because of fragile and uneven snow track on the river. One does fall frequently and suffer hard ice injuries, which are dangerous. Also, trekking at more than 11,500 feet above sea level, and staying in temperatures of -15 to 21 degrees is the toughest challenge, and tests the strength of a trekker. It was an amazing experience, yet the journey was very difficult due to the hard terrain. It was like a meditation for me, which contributed to my inner strength, and made me more confident.”
 
 The fitness professional said after fulfilling this dream, he is planning to trek to the base camp of Mount Everest.
 
 
