Data from  , an NGO working in the field of organ donation, shows a kidney transplant can cost upwards of Rs 5-8 lakh, while a heart transplant can set you back by Rs 22-28 lakh. The total cost can be much higher, depending upon the patient’s health and the hospital involved. As such surgeries can ruin a family financially, a large enough health insurance cover is a must. Even then there are many restrictions.

 
 
 
  involve two parties, the organ recipient and the donor. If the recipient is a policyholder, most expenses to the extent of the sum insured are covered by standard health policies. Under the same policy, the donor’s expenses are also covered, but with restrictions. “We only cover in-patient hospitalisation expenses for the donor,” says Puneet Sahni, Head, Product Development, SBI General Insurance.
 
 Even if the donor has a health insurance policy, it is unlikely that expenses will be reimbursed, unless the insurer explicitly provides such a cover. “For a donor, It is not a health condition that requires treatment,” says Sahni.
 
 If a donor’s policy does cover these expenses, the claim can be only for expenses not payable under the recipient’s policy. “As the in-patient component is covered by the recipient’s policy, coverage will be limited to any eligible excess,” says Jyoti Punja, COO and Customer Officer, Cigna TTK Health Insurance.
 
 
 
 Donor related costs merit a close look before you sign up for a policy. Most policies come with a list of exclusions. For example, it could either be restricted to an ad-hoc amount of say Rs 50,000 or will be payable only to the extent of 10% of the sum assured and so on. Some insurers provide the donor cover to the extent of the sum insured. Then there are products that do not cover organ donor expenses as part of the main cover, but offer it as an add-on. “Pre- and post-hospitalisation of the donor as well as screening expenses are not covered. Any complications arising consequent to harvesting, will also not be payable,” says  , MD and CEO, Max Bupa Health Insurance.
 
 Stem cell donation, except bone marrow transplant, falls under exclusions. If you have to go through an organ transplant, make sure the hospital provides all details of expenses. This helps prevent disputes during the claim settlement process.
 
 You can limit your anxiety by buying a critical illness policy. Such policies hand out a pre-decided amount upon diagnosis of the listed ailments, narrowing the scope for disputes and repudiation.
 
