GAYA: But for several complaints of   and other minor issues including poll boycott at one of the polling stations, the somewhat exciting byelection for the Jehanabad assembly seat ended on a dull note, as nearly half of the voters did not exercise their franchise. Altogether 12 sets of electronic voting machines (EVMs), each set comprising three franchise instruments had to be replaced.

 The machine malfunctioning in a byelection left many a eyebrows raised as unlike general election, oiling the   machine in limited poll is presumed to be elaborate. DM Alok Ranjan Ghosh confirmed the replacement of 12 sets of EVMs. “The poll was peaceful and 'no major issue' has come to light from anywhere in the constituency,” said the DM. 
 
 Reports reaching the divisional headquarters say that voters at polling station no 6 (Akhtiyarpur village of Ratni block) boycotted the election to register their protest against the lack of road link in the village. Reports also say that miscreants resorted to air fire near polling station no 94 to cause panic among the voters. 
 
 Whereas RJD national vice president Shivanand Tiwari claimed victory in Jehanabad seat, education minister and JD(U) main campaigner Krishna Nandan Prasad Verma made a somewhat poetic response to Tiwari's claim by reciting a famous Ghalib line, “dil bahlane ko Ghalib ye khyal achcha hai (the assumption is good to keep you sailing).” I cannot deprive them the two days long (till counting of votes) pleasure of a non-existent victory,” said Verma. “Let the EVM say the final word on the bypoll,” the education minister added.
 
 Tiwari said that prohibition and an apparently flawed sand mining policy was bound to spell doom for the NDA. Whereas, prohibition has delivered double whammy to the poor, the rich can't care less.
 
 The first conviction under the draconian prohibition law has been made in Jehanabad where, in September 2017, two apparently ignorant Mahadalits, both of them daily wagers named—Mastan Manjhi and Painter Manjhi— were sentenced to five years imprisonment and a fine of Rs one lakh each for violating the liquor law. Sand crisis has put off many a hearth as construction activity has come to an end. “The thin attendance at CM Nitish Kumar's poll meet and the few present leaving the ground midway during the CM's speech has declared the result even before the counting ritual. Not only Jehanabad, the Mahagatbandhan was well placed in Araria and Bhabhua as well, ” said Tiwari, a former associate of the CM.
 
 
