PATNA: Union minister Ashwini Kumar Choubey on Tuesday accused the district administration of falsely implicating his son Arijit Shashwat in Bhagalpur   clash case following the Shobha Yatra organized in the town on March 17. 

 Speaking to reporters on the parliament premises in New Delhi, Choubey blamed the district administration for not taking action against the real offenders.
 
 “I am proud that he (Arijit) is a BJP-RSS swayamsevak. I am also proud of all the workers who had participated in the Shobha Yatra organized under police escort and following all the rules,” he said. “Some negative elements did the wrong things. You (police) haven’t been able to arrest them and, instead, the blame is being put on the Shobha Yatra. The administration there has become blind,” Choubey added.
 
 Arijit, who had unsuccessfully contested the 2015 assembly election from Bhagalpur on a BJP ticket, had allegedly led a procession in the town to celebrate the first day of ‘Vikarm Samvat’. The procession passed through the Muslim-dominated Nathnagar locality and incidentally led to a communal clash. Arijit has been named an accused in one of the two FIRs lodged by the Bhagalpur police in that connection.
 
 Meanwhile, wife of RJD chief Lalu Prasad and former CM Rabri Devi said Union ministers Choubey and Giriraj Singh should not be allowed to enter Bihar as they are disturbing communal harmony in the state. “The entire country knows that BJP is a party of rioters. They are the people responsible for the riots. Giriraj had said before the 2015 Bihar assembly election that those not voting for BJP would go to Pakistan. Bihar BJP chief Nityanand Rai said in a rally before Araria parliamentary byelection that the constituency would become a den of ISI if RJD candidate won. I want to ask the PM and Bihar CM, whether the entire country and the state is an ISI den? People like Giriraj, Choubey and Nityanand should not be allowed to enter Bihar,” Rabri told reporters on the assembly premises.
 
 Ruling JD(U), however, claimed the state government was taking all necessary actions in Bhagalpur. “The government is doing its job. FIR has been lodged without pressure from any corner,” JD(U) spokesperson Niraj Kumar said.
 
 
