PATNA: Low back and neck pain is one of the most common reasons why people visit doctors across the world. Blame it on modern lifestyle, including the use of desktops, laptops and cellphones.

 “At least one-fourth of the 200-odd patients visiting the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences’s orthopaedic department every day happen to be suffering from low back pain,” department head Dr Santosh Kumar says and adds one may develop low   by sitting in one posture for long.
 
 “People nowadays work continuously for hours on the computer, which is degenerative for the body. It strains the body muscles,” he says and adds with many nowadays staying indoors for long, their exposure to the sunlight is limited or negligible, which leads to osteoporosis.
 
 Paras HMRI Hospital’s spine surgeon Dr Gautam R Prasad lists obesity, slouched posture while sitting, sitting in one posture for long, lifting heavy objects, unhealthy dietary habits and lack of proper exercise or too much exercise as reasons for low back and neck pain.
 
 “Excessive use of cellphones and laptops is also to blame. You develop pain in neck if you sit with your neck strained in one position for too long,” Dr Prasad says and adds there has been a worrisome increase in cases of cervical spondylitis during the last three decades.
 
 According to Dr Prasad, neck and back pain is the second most common reason for people seeking medicare across the world. “No less than 70 patients of low back and neck pain visit   every day,” he says.
 
 Patna Medical College and Hospital’s orthopaedic HoD Dr Vishwendra Kumar Sinha says on an average 40 patients visit the department’s OPD every day with complaints of chronic pain. “Most of them complain of pain in lower back or knee,” he says and adds one needs to take regular breaks from sitting in a static posture at home or at workplace.
 
  director Dr H N Diwakar says chronic pain is also common in homemakers, especially after they attain menopause. “Obese women too develop chronic pain. People also develop chronic pain due to sitting cross-legged or squatting for long,” Dr Diwakar says.
 
 General physician Dr Diwakar Tejaswi sees even flawed bed as one of the culprits. “Very soft mattresses are not good for spine curvature. A mattress that is high in density with a thin built is good for the back,” he says and also cautions against junk food as it reduces the body’s calcium absorption level that leads to weakening of bones.
 
