LUCKNOW: The Muslim petitioners in the long-pending Ram-Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid dispute case said on Monday that senior   leader and advocate Kapil Sibal's announcement of not appearing in Chief Justice of India (CJI) Deepak Mishra's court will not cause any hindrance in the judgment. 

 They also refuted BJP's claims that notice for impeachment motion against CJI was moved to thwart an early verdict in the case.
 
 Babri Masjid Action Committee convener,  , said that senior counsels Rajiv Dhawan and   are debating for them in Supreme Court. 
 
 He further said that the court has been shifting dates while petitioners are fully prepared for day-to-day hearing. "We were prepared for day-to-day hearing since the date on February 8, but the hearing was then shifted to March 14. The court then said that it would hear our plea for re-looking at a 1949 observation which claimed that a mosque is not an important part of religion. The hearing has since been held on March 23, April 6 and next is scheduled on April 27. Our senior counsels are debating," said Jilani. 
 
 "Only when the title dispute will be taken up, will Kapil Sibal debate on a few legal questions. His pronouncement will not affect the Babri case and the BJP is only making a propaganda that the impeachment motion was brought to delay the Babri dispute judgment. Both are absolutely unrelated," he added. Another litigant, Iqbal Ansari, son of  , said, "We have proof of hundreds of years that it was a mosque. When the idols were placed inside its precincts in 1949, it was a mosque and the world saw that the mosque was brought down in 1992. No matter what happens, a judge changes, a lawyer leaves, the court will decide on proofs and facts, and they prove our claim." 
 
 He added, "There are at least six eminent advocates on our side, and if one of them decides for non-appearance, the team remains."
 
 UP Sunni   chairman Zufar Farooqui said, "Kapil Sibal is not the counsel of Sunni Waqf Board. We are being represented by other advocates so Sibal's announcement means nothing for the Board." 
 
 
