KARUMANDURAI (SALEM): Relatives of the five people, suspected to be woodcutters, who were found dead in a water body at Vontimitta on the Kadapa-Tirupati highway on Sunday said they have no idea why the men had gone to  . When TOI visited the families residing at Kerangkadu and   villages near Karumandurai on Monday, they said the men had left home separately. They usually go to Kerala or Mysuru to pluck pepper in February every year.

 After preliminary investigations revealed that all the five men were from Salem district,   police contacted Salem district SP P Rajan to trace their families. The families, all belonging to the scheduled tribes, were traced to Kerangkadu and Keelaavarai villages. C Kannammal, 30, wife of A Chinnapaiyan, 45, at Kerangkadu is at a loss for words. “I have three little sons. I don’t know what to do next,” she said. Chinnapaiyan had left home about 15 days ago. While leaving, he did not say anything about taking up any work in Andhra Pradesh, she said. Kannammal thought he had gone to Kerala or Mysuru to pluck pepper. She came to know about his death after watching TV on Sunday. The next day Salem police confirmed that her husband was dead.
 
 A Murugesan’s wife M Palaniammal, 37, is in a state of shock. She collapsed when she heard of her husband’s death on Sunday evening and has not got up since then. Their daughter Iswarya, 15, said Murugesan, 42, had left for Andhra Pradesh 10 days ago. 
 
 “He did not say anything about the work he was going to take up. But he told me that he was going to AP,” she said.
 
 P Karuppannan, 23, was not married. He had completed Class XII and worked in a knitting company in Tirupur. He had come to Kerangkadu a year ago. When he told his mother  , 42, that he wanted to go for work elsewhere, she agreed. “I would not have allowed him had I known he was heading for danger.” She said he had big dreams to added that, he had many dreams to uplift the family. “Everything is shattered,” she lamented.
 
 Unnamalai, wife of   of Keelaavarai, too is traumatised. They have three daughters - Palaniammal, Meena and Roja. Palaniammal and Meena are married. Unnamalai said she had no idea how she would conduct Roja’s marriage now that her husband is gone.
 
 
