SHIMLA: In a bid to send the message across bureaucracy that laxity and careless approach at any level would not be tolerated, Chief Minister   led government has transferred the   Deputy Commissioner and Baddi SP after finding total mismanagement and chaos during the recent visit of Governor and Chief Minister to the district.

 On Thursday, Governor and Chief Minister had visited the Solan district during their visit to Baddi area it was found that there was complete chaos during the programme and efficient co-ordination was not maintained at the highest level.
 
 Immediately after returning from Baddi area, state government transferred   and  .
 
 A Spokesman of the state government said that present regime on the day one of assuming office had made it clear that it was committed to provide transparent, clean and accountable administration to the people of the State. For this, every officer and official of the State has to work with total commitment, zeal and dedication, so that the objective of good governance could be achieved, he said.
 
 He said that during the recent visit of the Governor and the Chief Minister to Baddi area, last minute changes were made in already scheduled programme and district administration failed to establish co-ordination in this regard, which led to complete mismanagement and caused great inconvenience to the general public.
 
 He said this mis-management was viewed seriously at the highest level and the officers responsible for this were transferred. He said this decision was taken by the state government keeping in view its commitment to provide effective and accountable administration to the people.
 
 Spokesman said that state government was working with a sole objective of service, good governance and accountable administration and all-round development of the state and no compromise would be made on this front.
 
 He said that government expects all its officers to work with commitment, dedication and new zeal. Government would not hesitate in taking similar action in future also against the officers adopting carelessness and negligence in their functioning, he added.
 
 
