Turns out Charles Darwin was wrong. Not about monkeys though — our apologies to Union minister Satyapal Singh — but about women. Like several biologists of the Victorian era, the father of theory of evolution believed that women were intellectually   to men. Over time, this gender stereotype has manifested in the form of various serious theories lobbed by evolved scientific minds which — coupled with deep-rooted cultural odds — have not only hardened into gently whispered doubts today but also cheated women out of careers in science, argues   in her latest book 
 . The Indian-origin writer — who was the only girl in her math class in school — tells us why she wanted to dust off the film of biases from influential scientific gender studies. Excerpts from the interview:

 
 I understand that the minister who said Darwin’s theory of evolution was wrong has a PhD in chemistry. It’s strange. Then, there are also people who believe the earth is flat. I was speaking to the physicist Lisa Randall recently about faith and religion and how scientists and science writers can deal with the strain of anti-rationalism all over the world. How do you go as a scientist and science writer with those kinds of views? You just have to keep repeating the facts. As for Darwin, he was one of the best scientists in the world but he was human. His theory on women being intellectually inferior, like those of a lot of European biologists of the time, was driven less by facts and more by prejudice. A key part of science is humility; the ability to accept the possibility that we can be wrong.
 
 
 The papers in science journals that gave us women our perception of ourselves — that women can’t read maps and so on — didn’t always chime well with my experience. I wondered if there was bias at play. Especially when science studies humans, the picture that we get of human behaviour may not be baggage-free. I realised that I had to be careful with the topic as there was the Mars-and-Venus angle and theories that we are all the same. I picked out some of the most influential studies and realised that bias was at play, if not in the research, then in the interpretation.
 
 
 Oxford didn’t even award degrees to women until 1945. Women haven’t had the opportunities that men had. In fact, a lot of men in science are still very sexist. While introducing me, one of the senior biologists in Cambridge — who was not trying to be funny — said “she is one of the rare women who are good at math”. There were gasps from the audience of scientists.
 
 
 On social media, I am sent images of bell curves and where women stand on it and other strange little facts that say equality is impossible. It’s usually men’s rights activists and deep misogynists who do this. I’ve made the effort to make the book balanced. I’m not trying to pillory anyone.
 
 
 The image of a scientist is still a man wearing a lab coat and glasses. 
 , I think, introduced women scientists in response to public criticism about all four scientists being male and the women being ditzy blondes. It highlights the problem that women’s contributions in science are often overlooked or subsumed into those of men. Producers of culture and filmmakers need to be more imaginative. 
 , a movie about the discrimination against women mathematicians in Nasa in ’60s America, showed how common it was for women to not get credit for work or when they assist their husbands. Many women scientists were not given the Nobel Prize because they were women. It’s great that a new generation of women scientists is now unitedly speaking up against sexism. Earlier as lone voices, you risked being ostracised or labelled a troublemaker.
 
 
 I sat in for some lectures in IIT Delhi for my earlier book 
  and it reminded me of the time in school I was the only girl in the math class. IIT isn’t just overwhelmingly male but also overwhelmingly Brahmin. The system is so competitive. You have to undergo coaching for it but parents are not willing to pump in resources for daughters. They should be willing to let their talented daughters pursue their dreams as my dad did. I grew up playing Lego and Mechano, not because I was an exception but because it was what we had around the house.
 
 
 That was the publisher’s choice (smiles). It is millennial pink — a shade that millennials have reclaimed. Also, pink once used to be a boys’ colour.
 
 
