NEW DELHI: A 35-year-old man was   to death by neighbours in front of his family members during an argument over   a bike at Gautampuri colony in Badarpur on Tuesday night.

 The mother of the victim, Ashok Kumar, was also   with a   when she tried to intervene in the argument. Kumar’s family members said that their neighbour Anil had fought with Kumar a few days back also over parking during which Kumar was thrashed. 
 
 On Tuesday, when Kumar returned from work at 10.30pm, he parked his bike behind an auto-rickshaw, which belonged to Nitin. Kumar’s friend Mohammad Hussain said that after some time when Kumar came out to go for dinner, he saw Nitin sitting on his bike. “When Kumar asked Nitin to move, he refused to do so and suddenly attacked Kumar,” said Hussain.
 
 Hearing the commotion, Kumar’s mother stepped out and tried to intervene. But Nitin’s cousin, Anil, hit her with the lathi. By this time, both the families gathered in the area and someone also informed the police. A PCR team arrived at 10.50pm and resolved the matter. Both Anil and Nitin were detained. Kumar’s mother was admitted to a hospital with head injuries.
 
 Hussain said that Kumar returned from the hospital at 11.50pm and was waiting outside his house for his family members, when Anil’s son Vishal and his brother Mithun attacked Kumar. Anil’s other family members also joined in.
 
 When Kumar’s sister and his wife tried to intervene, Vishal’s family members dragged them to a corner and thrashed them, while Vishal stabbed Kumar at least six times. Kumar’s family members raised an alarm, but by the time neighbours gathered, Kumar had already fallen unconscious. Vishal fled from the scene after this.
 
 Kumar was rushed to the Apollo Hospital where he was declared dead on arrival. 
 
 Family members said that Kumar was the sole earning member of the family, after his elder brother and father passed away within a gap of six months. He is survived by his wife and daughter. Mithun was arrested late in the night.
 
 
