GURUGRAM:   Bhatt of DPS Sushant Lok has topped her school in the humanities stream with 94% in the   Class XII boards. This is a feat in itself, but what makes her achievement all the more special is that she suffers from cerebral palsy, a neurological condition that affects movement and muscle control. 

 “What motivated me to do well in studies is the confidence I had in myself to be the best. I am just like any other student, I have never considered myself special or different from others,” Shriya, who can’t use her right hand properly and does most of her work with her left hand, told TOI. While her mother is a teacher, her father is a clinical researcher.
 
  The 18-year-old wishes to pursue a psychology honours course from the University of Delhi (DU). “For the last one year, I’ve put in seven to eight hours of study daily. Now, I’d like to pursue psychology honours from DU,” she said. 
 
 The youngster, who lives in Sector 55, wants to become a psychologist and educate people to remove the stigma attached to mental illness. “People hardly talk about mental illnesses as there’s a stigma attached to them in society. I want to make people aware about it and bring the discussion into the open,” she said.
 
 Meanwhile,   from Amity International School, Sector 43, has scored 82.2% in the  . The humanities student suffers from   (a learning disorder which affects the brain’s ability to process letters and graphic symbols) and has difficulty with words. 
 
  
  
 
 Repeated tests and writing made it easier for him to retain what he had learnt. “I won’t deny that I faced difficulties in school. I simply put in more effort and ensured that I could read and write properly,” he said.
 
 The son of a government employee and a homemaker, Vikram wants to become an IAS officer. “I feel that there is nothing I can’t do. I’ll start preparing for my civil service examinations now, and hopefully, I’ll make it. As a student, I have learnt that once you have the will, nothing can stop you from doing what you want,” he said.
 
 
