GURUGRAM: Around 500 people claiming allegiance to various   came out on the streets on Monday in support of six men who were booked last week for disrupting   at a Sector 43 ground.

 The protesters demanded the scrapping of the FIR as well as a ban on prayer meetings in open spaces and government land (like the one in Sector 43) without approval from authorities.
 
 Ravinder Kumar, a spokesperson for Gurugram police, said the police had acted against the six men following a complaint being filed. “We do not differentiate between communities. We will act as per law and urge people to not take law in their hands,” said Kumar.
 
 The six men —residents of Wazirabad and Kanhai villages — were arrested last Thursday after a video clip showing them obstructing a prayer congregation at the Sector 43 ground on April 20 was posted on various social media platforms. They were booked under sections 295A (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings), 296 (disturbing religious assembly) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC. All six got bail on Sunday.
 
 On Monday morning, members of different organisations gathered at Kamla Nehru Ground on Old Delhi-Gurugram road and, after a brief meeting, marched till the mini secretariat. Later, they submitted a memorandum, addressed to the chief minister, to additional deputy commissioner (ADC) R P Singh.
 
 “Holding religious activities without permission from authorities is a ploy to encroach upon government land. The government should not allow such activities on open land without prior approval,” said Mahavir Bharadwaj, who was leading the demonstration organised by the ‘Joint   Sangarsh Samiti’, an umbrella group comprising members of of Vishwa Hindu Parishad, Akhil Bharatiya Hindu Kranti Dal and Bajrang Dal, among others.
 
 Bharadwaj further alleged such gatherings were mainly attended by migrants from other states. “The government should check papers (ID cards) of people gathering for such activities and identify illegal migrants,” he added.
 
 Ajay Singhal, president of Sanskritik Gaurav Samiti, said prayers and religious activities should be held at designated places only. 
 
 “The government should impose a blanket ban on the prayer meetings on open land,” he demanded. Rajiv Mittal of Hindu Kranti Dal threatened not allow any prayer congregation at the Sector 43 ground.
 
 An estimate suggests the city has a population of six lakh Muslims, who hold Friday prayers in open spaces at 110 places. Shahzad Khan, who is among those who congregate at the Sector 43 ground, said, “We assemble there for a few minutes once a week for prayers, without disturbing anyone.”
 
 
