CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and   high court has imposed a fine of Rs 10,000 on Ambala-based   recruitment authorities for withdrawing selection of a Karnal youth without assigning any reason or serving show-cause notice. 

 The HC was of the view that time and again the Supreme Court and other courts had held that if any decision or order was passed against a person, and if it was disadvantageous to him, in that event, necessary notice be issued. In other words, principle of natural justice is required to be complied, observed the court.
 
 Justice P B Bajanthri passed these orders while hearing a petition filed by Sonu, a resident of Salwan village in Karnal district.
 
 The petitioner was declared selected as soldier (general duty) into the Army in November 2016, but through a letter issued on December 14, 2016, an Ambala-based recruiting office informed him that he was not in the merit, hence, his candidature stood cancelled.
 
 Aggrieved from the decision of the Army authorities, the petitioner had approached the high court on the ground that his cancellation was without notice and any reason. Responding to the petition, the Army authorities submitted that petitioner was wrongly awarded 20 marks as bonus in the common entrance examination. 
 
 "The respondent concerned (army recruitment office,  ) has not assigned any reasons for cancellation of the petitioner's candidature. 
 
 They could have issued a show-cause notice stating that why award of 20 marks as bonus shall not be withdrawn in view of the fact that the petitioner was entitled to these marks. Had they informed by issuing of show-cause notice and passed a final order of cancellation by reasoned order after due consideration of the petitioner's plea, if any, the present petition would not have been filed," observed the court while setting aside the Army letter. The court also directed the Army authorities to pay Rs 10,000 cost to the petitioner within one month for forcing him to approach the court. 
 
 The HC, however, granted liberty to the Army authorities to issue a show-cause notice and, thereafter, proceed to pass necessary order after hearing the petitioner.
 
 
