LUDHIANA: Ten days after an   cylinder exploded at a house in Giaspura, another man succumbed to burns at a city hospital on Sunday. 

 Thirty-year-old   was declared dead at   and Hospital (CMCH) at 9.15am. With this, the   toll has climbed to 11. 
 
 Shattered, his father   said, “The family, especially his kids, wife Anju Devi and mother  , is yet to come to terms with the painful reality. His three-year-old daughter Hansika and two-month-old son Vansh are too young to understand anything. He had gone to Ashok Yadav’s house to help the family when their gas cylinder leak triggered panic. But the cylinder exploded, leaving him critically injured.” 
 
 The family could not perform Pawan’s last rites, as the post-mortem examination would be conducted on Monday, added Bhan, who works as a labourer in a cycle manufacturing company. 
 
 Pawan, a Giaspura resident and native of Uttar Pradesh, worked as a salesman with a private company. 
 
 The April 26 blast had left 34 injured, of which 11 have succumbed to injuries. 
 
 The dead include house owner Ashok Yadav, wife Sunita, son Raj, neighbours Kamlesh Giri, Rakesh Kumar, Ram Naresh, Shashi, Ashok Kumar, Amarnath and Meena Devi, besides   Kumar. 
 
 Kin seek 5-lakh relief
 
 The families of those killed in the Giaspura cylinder blast are seeking Rs 5-lakh compensation from the government. They are saying that the explosion claimed the lives of their sole breadwinners. The government had earlier announced Rs 1 lakh compensation to the next of kin of those killed.
 
 Cylinder catches fire, two injured 
 
 Two people were injured after an LPG cylinder caught fire at a house in New Kundan Puri on Saturday night. Tilak Puri, 60, the house owner who works at a hosiery factory, was cooking when the cylinder caught fire. Harjit Singh Bedi, his neighbour, rushed to his help on hearing his cries. But he too was injured. The two were rushed to a nearby hospital. The fire gutted a part of the house too. 
 
 Pic Caption: An LPG cylinder had exploded at a house in Giaspura on April 26, leaving 34 people injured 
 
 
