BHOPAL: The goons who hijacked a Dial 100 vehicle to kidnap a girl from Panna on Sunday are still one step ahead of the cops. Hundreds of policemen from   and Uttar Pradesh are combing the jungles near Bunda tehsil of Sagar district — once dacoit land — in search of them, but without any success.

 More than 48 hours have passed since 20-year-old Nirjala Patel was abducted from her home by five goons wearing khaki, there is no trace of her despite MP and UP cops joining forces and a reward of Rs 25,000 announced for information leading to their capture.
 
 The two Dial 100 cops — ASI Subhash Dube and head constable   — who were overpowered and tied up by the criminals have been suspended. They were unarmed when they responded to the hoax distress call and were taken at gunpoint by the gang in Bamori village of Panna’s Amanganj tehsil. P 4
 
 300 cops involved in search operation
 
 Panna SP Riyaz Iqbal said, “Police forces from Banda district in UP, and Damoh, Sagar, Chattarpur and Panna in MP have been pressed into the combing operations.”
 
 The SP said that five to six criminals were involved in the kidnapping and they had “dispersed in different directions”. “We have rounded up a few people during the operations and they are being interrogated,” he added. He refused to give any details, saying: “We have some clues and will crack the case soon.”
 
 Sources in Sagar said at least 300 police personnel are involved in the search.
 
 These jungles were once infested by dacoits.
 
 Police are under pressure to solve the crime, considering it made for sensational headlines on Monday. In the wee hours of Sunday, a gang of masked men lured a Dial 100 squad into a midnight trap and hijacked the vehicle. When the two cops and driver   arrived at the spot mentioned in the SOS call, they found a man lying facedown on the road. As the cops drew near, he rolled over and pointed a pistol at them. After stripping and tying up the cops, the gang locked them up in a car and sped off towards the girl’s house in the Dial 100 vehicle, wearing police uniform.
 
 The girl’s father opened the door at that late hour, believing they were cops. After kidnapping the girl, they returned the keys and uniforms to the policemen and sped off. Police are still looking for them.
 
