Chandigarh: Under fire from opposition parties over changes in Class XII history textbooks of Punjab School Education Board, Punjab government on Tuesday decided to hold back further release of the books till the newly-constituted oversight committee gives its opinion. The decision seems to have come as an afterthought, a day after the six-member panel was announced by chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh.

 An official spokesperson said after the decision to set up the oversight committee, headed by eminent historian Prof Kirpal Singh, it was felt that it would be better for the panel to undertake a review of the book before its further release. The education board ) has also been directed to facilitate the committee in completing the task at the earliest, he added.
 
 Meanwhile, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) claimed that its charge about deletion of Sikh history from Class XII syllabus “has been fully vindicated” with the setting up of the committee of eminent historians to review the entire issue.
 
 The committee has been mandated to consider and report on the recommendations of the expert group constituted by the education board in 2014, to review the changes made in the new history syllabus prescribed for classes XI and XII subsequent to the recommendations of the expert group, and to suggest corrections, if any.
 
 The panel would also examine the contents of the textbooks prescribed for classes XI and XII and to suggest corrections for factual and other errors, if any, and to align, as may be practicably possible, the history syllabus with that prescribed by the NCERT.
 
 It would review the syllabus and contents of textbooks prescribed for history for all classes in the Punjab School Education Board and to ensure that there are no factual discrepancies.
 
 The Akalis described the government’s decision as a “a correct though belated step in the right direction. “This is precisely what we have been demanding all along and this is just the step which the former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal had urged the CM Captain Amarinder Singh to take. Had the government listened to him then, the entire unsavory controversy could have been avoided,” said Dr Daljeet Singh Cheema, SAD’s senior vice president.
 
 “Nevertheless, we are happy that the government has finally done the correct thing,” he added.
 
 ‘Restore old syllabus’
 
 SAD has, meanwhile, demanded that, in the meantime, the old syllabus containing the history of the Sikh gurus and martyrs be restored immediately for Class XII students as before, so that students do not suffer any loss during the current session.
 
 
