CHANDIGARH: As many as 1,552 students of   received degrees during the 41st convocation of the college held on Sunday.

 Out of 1,552 students, 588 students received degrees in the discipline of commerce, 379 in science, 152 in IT and 433 in arts.
 
  vice-chancellor Prof Arun Kumar Grover presided over the convocation and delivered the convocation address. The event began with the rendition of   by the college students. GGDSD College Society president Upkar Krishan Sharma welcomed the chief guest and congratulated the students on their achievement.
 
 Delivering the convocation address, Prof Arun Kumar Grover congratulated the college for organising successful convocations for each batch. Appreciating the research and other achievements of the college, he said, “A college of the stature of S D College should also set new benchmarks in innovation and global education by starting innovative courses in the field of social sciences and liberal arts.” 
 
 Grover added that other city colleges will definitely want to follow in the footsteps of the S D College. “Given the high merit of students getting admission to S D College and the scholarly attainments of the faculty, it would not be difficult to run such innovative courses successfully in the college,” he said.
 
 College principal   read the college’s annual report for the session 2017-18. While sharing the progress made during the year, Bhushan said, “S D College has been conferred with A+ grade for its academic excellence and outstanding achievements by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC). For the second consecutive year, the college has been included among the top hundred colleges of the country in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) 2018. With a rank of 82, it is the only private college in North India to figure among the top 100 colleges. Further, ours is the only private college affiliated to Panjab University, Chandigarh to have attained this rank.”
 
 Dr Bhushan added, “In the Panjab University results of 2018, the college bagged many merit positions. In sports, the college bagged 212 gold, 173 silver and 153 bronze medals. In international tournaments, students of the college won three gold, two silver and one bronze medals. We also won the overall trophy in Zonal Youth Festival, Panjab University, for the fourth time in a row.”
 
 
