NEW DELHI: This is not a happy new year for some teachers of the Delhi University. Around 12  , which get 100% funding from the Delhi government have no money to pay their staff, after the government stopped the funds in July over a tussle on the names for governing body with the university administration.

 The principals of these colleges have claimed that they are now pinching their coffers to pay the staff, warning of a deepening crisis if the matter is not resolved at the earliest.
 
 According to SK Garg, principal of Deen Dayal Upadhaya College in Dwarka, there are no funds with them to pay for teachers’ salaries, especially after the excess from the past funds were used to pay off in the recent months. He said that though the government sent interim relief in November to pay for December salaries, it was less than what was required. “The fund was an average of the May-June-July salaries, which is much less than the requirement because that does not take in account ad-hoc teacher salaries. Ad-hoc teachers are given a lump sum, and last month we had to supplement the government funds with our funds to make do,” said Garg.
 
 He explained that the college had about Rs 4 crore from the previous grants which was in addition to the Rs 6 crore sent by the government last year. The college had to “arrange” for Rs 30-40 lakh to pay the workers. But with that also spent, the college is in a crisis.
 
 “The non-teaching staff needs the money because they specially have a hand-to-mouth existence. Even the teachers have loans and EMIs to pay off, and without salaries it is becoming difficult,” he said.
 
 Mamta Sharma, principal of Aditi Mahavidyalaya, also maintained that the college will have to make an “arrangement” if the funds don’t come in time. “We are in talk with the chairperson, and will have to do what is necessary on her direction,” she said. To pay for power and other utilities, she said, the college will have to use others funds to be able to continue running. “We got some money earlier as interim relief, but now we are in a crisis,” she said.
 
 
