Trichy: Farmers staged novel protests at Trichy and Thanjavur at the monthly grievance day meeting alleging that the Centre was acting against the interest of delta farmers by refusing to set up   ( ) as mandated by the  . They urged the state government to file a contempt of court petition in the apex court if the Centre didn’t honour the order. 

 The farmers arrived carrying clay pots to the collector’s office demanding that the Centre constitute the CMB before the stipulated time. Later, they staged a walkout from the monthly grievance day meeting. Meanwhile, protesting farmers at Thanjavur staged a “sleeping protest” inside the grievance day meeting hall.
 
 In Trichy, the protest in front of the collector’s office was led by the district secretary of Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam, Ayilai Sivasuriyan, MP, district president of Tamilaga Vivasayigal Sangam Chinnadurai, Bharatiya Kisan Sangam’s N Veerasekaran and the state organizer of farmers’ wing of Tamil Manila Congress Puliyur A Nagarajan. They raised slogans alleging that the central government was still in betrayal mode against Tamil Nadu farmers. 
 
 Meanwhile, district collector   told farmers at the grievance day meeting that banana plantains raised on 250 acres had been affected by the recent gale in Trichy district. “According to the report prepared by the horticulture department, crops which raised on nearly 250 acres have been affected severely. The report would be sent to the government within two days”, he added.
 
 Elaborating about the crop insurance disbursed, he said that 13, 614 of the 22,777 farmers who had insured their crops had been so far disbursed damages to the tune of Rs 33 crore during 2016-17. Among the 9,163 remaining farmers, 5,748 would get Rs 8.18 crore within a week, he added. A total of 30,416 farmers had insured their crops for 2017-18, he further said. “Farmers who lost coconut trees in the district would get Rs 1.32 crore as compensation in a few days. A total of 3,006 farmers would benefit. Compensation to the tune of Rs 64 crore had already been disbursed to 1.04 lakh coconut farmers during 2016-17”, he added.
 
 
