MUMBAI: A day after the city’s fire department said in its report that the   that killed 14 on December 29 started in the   and not at   as initially suspected, the N M Joshi Marg police arrested Yug Pathak, one of two partners who own Mojo’s.

 Pathak is the son of former Pune police commissioner K K Pathak. He lives in Nerul in Navi Mumbai. The other partner is Yug Tuli, a Nagpur resident. 
 
 Both were booked on Saturday for culpable homicide not amounting to murder and their names made a part of the first FIR registered in the case, said Deven Bharti, joint commissioner of police, law and order. If convicted, the maximum punishment is 10 years in jail. 
 
 Police recorded Pathak’s statement before the arrest. “He was called in for questioning and arrested at 4.10pm,” said Ahmed Pathan, senior police inspector. He has been lodged at the Agripada central lockup. 
 
 
  
  
 
 “Yug Pathak will be produced before court on Sunday. We are now looking for Tuli,” said Sussairaj Jayakumar, additional commissioner of police, central region. Tuli has a rented home in Chembur. No death or injury was reported from Mojo’s though 40-50 patrons were present there at the time the fire broke out, a police officer said.
 
 Earlier, the police had booked only 1Above partners Kripesh and Jigar Sanghvi (brothers) and Abhijeet Mankar, along with some others, for culpable homicide not amounting to murder. 
 
 These three are partners in the firm Sigrid Ospitalita, under whose name the rooftop resto-bar has been registered. Most of the 14 who died in the fire were in their 20s and 30s, and 13 of them were patrons of 1Above and one, a waiter.
 
 The three owners of 1Above have been on the run since the tragedy occurred. “They have switched off their phones. Their Whatsapp is not working. Moreover, they have deleted their Facebook profiles in order to avoid arrest. They must be thinking police could track them down with the help of technology,” said a police officer. But the officer added the three accused had not left the country. “Look-out circular (LOC) notices have been issued against them at all airports in India, and if they try to leave the country, they will be detained at the immigration counter. We spoke to the immigration authorities and as per their records, the accused have not left India from any airport,” he stated. The accused’s families have not been cooperating with investigators, the police said. Five local police teams and two from the crime branch have been formed to track down the wanted accused.
 
 A total of five FIRs have been filed in the matter so far. The first one was against the Sanghavi brothers and Mankar. On January 1, police arrested two managers of 1Above, Kevin Bawa (35) and Lisbon Lopez (34) in connection with this FIR; they have been sent to police custody till January 9. The managers also face charges of culpable homicide not amounting to murder.
 
 The next three FIRs were filed a day after the blaze against Mankar, Yug Tuli (one of Mojo’s owners), the owner of banquet hall P-22, and Ramesh Govani, who controls the Kamala Mills compound property. They have been charged under the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning (MRTP) Act for violation of land rules and not under the Indian Penal Code for criminal acts. Police have recorded Govani’s statement.
 
 In another case registered at Byculla police station, police arrested Mahendra Sanghvi (55) and his sons Aditya and Rakesh, both cousins of Kripesh and Jigar, for harbouring the partners of 1Above. They were later released on bail. A relative of Aditya claimed to be in possession of CCTV footage showing the fire had started at Mojo’s and then spread to 1Above.
 
 
