PATNA: The 90-year-old Patna Science College got a new canteen on Monday after a gap of more than five decades. The canteen was inaugurated by Patna University (PU) vice-chancellor ( ) Rash Bihari Prasad Singh in the presence of a large number of students, faculty members and non-teaching staff. 

 The VC also opened a stationery store on the college campus for the benefit of students. “Day scholars as well as hostellers will no longer have to visit roadside stalls as they will get nutritious food at subsidized rates on their campus,” the VC said.
 
 Magadh Mahila College: More than 500 students, faculty members and non-teaching staff of   participated in an earthquake safety mock drill conducted by the 9th   Battalion in association with the Bihar State Disaster Management Authority (BSDMA) on Monday.
 
 The participants learned about evacuation plans, emergency situations and rescue operations. Under the supervision of NDRF deputy commandant Alok Kumar, instructors showed everyone how one could save oneself from getting hurt during an earthquake. 
 
  (Bihar home guard and fire services) P N Rai, BSDMA member U K Mishra and college principal Shashi Sharma were also present on the occasion.
 
 DPS-Patna: Governor Satya Pal Malik on Monday launched the fifth edition of the daily online cryptic crossword challenge ‘A Clue A Day’ (ACAD) organized at Delhi Public School-Patna. 
 
 Addressing students and guests on the occasion, the governor said the most important resources of a country were its young, educated minds. He gave the example of the Second World War when buildings, monuments and even hospitals were bombed, but schools and universities were spared. 
 
 ACAD programme director Kusharga Singh said the clues would be uploaded on www.crypticsingh.com at 3.30pm every day. “The answers can be submitted by 3pm daily. The first Champions’ Gallery will be formed on January 17 and then every day till October 15.”
 
 IAS Vivek Kumar Singh, the chief mentor of the contest and principal secretary (labour resources) Deepak Kumar Singh also attended the event.
 
 
