HYDERABAD:   advocate general D   has submitted his resignation and forwarded a letter to this effect to governor ESL Narasimhan two days ago. The state government is yet to respond officially to the development. As of now, the resignation is yet to be accepted by the state.

 
 The immediate trigger for the development is said to be the ongoing legal tussle in the Hyderabad High Court over the expulsion of two Congress MLAs, Komatireddy   and S A  , whose ‘violent actions’ in the   allegedly injured the eye of Telangana legislative council chairman   during the recent address of the governor to the joint session of the assembly and council. Justice B Siva Sankara Rao, who was hearing the case, had summoned the video footage from the assembly secretary to ascertain whether such an incident took place or not as the expelled legislators, the petitioners before the court, have raised serious doubts over the government’s claims in this regard.
 
 According to sources, the state was unhappy about the assurance given by the AG on March 19 to HC about producing such footage before the court. He is a legal advisor to the state and hence can assure the court on behalf of the state. But extending such an assurance on behalf of the legislative assembly is not correct is, seemingly, the stand of the state. Though the court directed the assembly secretary to produce the footage by March 22, that did not happen. In fact, on that day, the AG did not appear before the court. Instead, state’s additional advocate general J Ramachandra Rao appeared and sought some more time as the authorities cannot furnish the video footage without the house passing a resolution to that effect.
 
 AG hopes govt will clear the air fast
 
 Though the petitioners’ counsel objected to the argument of the state, the judge gave time to the authorities till March 27 reminding them about the assurance given by the AG in the last hearing that he would obtain and furnish the video footage to the court.
 
 AG Prakash Reddy was unrelenting on his stand in making such an assurance to the court, it is learnt. “When the whole state saw the footage through news channels, what is wrong if a court looks at it,” is the question the AG posed to those who objected to his assurance to the court.
 
 When contacted by TOI over phone, Prakash Reddy refused to divulge anything on the issue. He wants the state government to clear the air fast. “It has to come from the proper channel. It would not be fair on my part to answer calls on this matter. Having accepted the offer and having worked for the state for eight months, I can only hope that the appropriate authority would look into the matter fast so that I am relieved from the task of clearing the air,” he said hinting at the numerous calls he was receiving ever since the news about his resignation broke out.
 
 As the matter is slated for hearing on Tuesday, the state has already engaged a senior counsel from the Supreme Court to argue its case, it is learnt. A legal analyst reasoned that if this was to be true, then the AG’s resignation letter must be lying with the state for the last two days.
 
