NEW DELHI:   on Thursday came under fire in the Delhi high court for “frustrating” its orders to kickstart testing of a facial recognition software (FRS) to trace missing children.

 The FRS has been recently acquired by   but hasn’t been put to use due to refusal of the ministry to share the data of missing children with the police.
 
 “This PIL has been pending for over 20 years. The WCD ministry has to demonstrate to the court its seriousness about tracing missing children. Else, the court might be constrained to require the implementation of the orders under contempt of court,” a bench of justices S Muralidhar and I S Mehta observed, ordering the secretary Rakesh Srivastava to furnish required data to a senior Delhi Police official on Thursday evening itself.
 
  was irked to discover that WCD stonewalled several requests from Delhi Police to access the missing children data, leaving the FCR of no use.
 
 “There can be no legitimate reason for the WCD to be sitting on the data of missing children and refusing to share it with the police in Delhi and elsewhere. The police are the persons who are ultimately responsible for tracking down the children. More the delay in sharing the database access with the police, the greater will be the problem,” the bench noted, terming the ministry’s stand as not just objectionable, “but unacceptable as well.”
 
 The bench directed the special police commissioner R P Upadhyay to ensure that the data recieved from the ministry is used “for the sole purpose of running the FRS purchased by the police on test basis.”
 
 It said “the software will be run by the Delhi Police on the said data and the results will be shared with the WCD ministry no later than two weeks from today” and told both Upadhyay and Srivastav to remain present in court on the next hearing if they fail to implement its orders.
 
 HC had earlier fixed February 20 as the deadline for the police to conduct a pilot run of the FRS to evaluate how successfully it can help trace and rescue missing children.
 
 The high court's direction had come after the Centre expressed its inability to immediately put into motion such a software.
 
 “Waiting for the perfect software to be developed with an open-ended time line does not serve the purpose of addressing the issue of missing children on an urgent basis. Given the possibility of the tender process taking a considerable amount of time, the WCD ministry will inform the court on affidavit the concrete time line within which it proposes to procure and test an FRS to track missing children,” it had noted.
 
 The bench is hearing a plea on missing children filed by   and others in which it has been examining ways and means to address the issue of tracing them and restoring them to their families.
 
