NAGPUR: Renowned mimicry artiste Rajesh   portrayed various characters that are seen in daily life to perfection and made people burst into peals of laughter, and also introspect, during his show ‘Ghatkabhar Basa Aani Potbhar Hasa’, staged as part of Mahila Udyojika Melava 2018, organized by   at Reshimbagh ground recently.

 The first character played by Chitnavis was that of a schoolboy going for a trip to   with classmates. The middle-aged Rajesh came on the stage dressed like a schoolboy that drew instant claps from the audience. Using typical Varhadi dialect, he narrated many incidents that come in the life of a school student. 
 
 In a reminder of the fact that students live in the world of their own, Rajesh used his tonal qualities effectively while expressing happiness, eagerness, and even angst. He also showed the humorous side of a schoolboy. School students being subjected to uncomfortable questions to which they have no answers is a common knowledge. 
 
 In one such incident, the schoolboy was asked who Chandragupta Maurya was? In a spontaneous reply, the boy said, “Maurya was a cousin of Ganpati Bappa Morya”, making spectators laugh aloud. Jokes apart, the actor gave a message about importance of education and condemned child labour.
 
 Rajesh was at his best when he mimicked a blind beggar, often found on trains or the railway platforms, to earn their livelihood.   no doubt is a curse, but people somehow like the mimicry involving a blind beggar who entertains by singing in a typical voice with ‘ghatam’ or ‘matka’ as the accompanying instrument. Rajesh showed his prowess as a blind singer by presenting a number of songs and also played ‘ghatam’ remarkably well. 
 
 This show too had a message for the society — of vaccinating children regularly so that they could become healthy and happy in the rest of their life.
 
 Amol Edlabadkar, a stand-up comedian, also presented several jokes and mimicries. His jokes were mostly based on common people that made the audiences giggle. 
 
 Cultural programmes are part of the exhibition in which women from Gondia, Bhandara, Gadchiroli, Wardha and Nagpur have put up several items for sale. Mayor Nanda Jichkar and deputy mayor   were present. 
 
 
