New Delhi: The appeal to pray for the nation ahead of the 2019 general elections was not aimed at Prime Minister  ,   or any other political party, the office of Archbishop of Delhi   said on Tuesday. The Archbishop’s office also expressed anguish at what it termed a “created controversy” over an appeal for peace that “does not target anyone and does not tell people who to vote for or against”.

 
 “The Archbishop of Delhi Anil Couto is not against Prime Minister Narendra Modi or any political party. All he has appealed for is a prayer for the nation ahead of the 2019 general elections,” the Archbishop’s secretary, Father Robinson   told TOI. “In fact the Archbishop of Delhi has good relations with the PM and other BJP ministers. It is unfortunate that some people have chosen to make it into a Church versus PM controversy,” he added.
 
 On whether there was a split among churches over the appeal, Father Rodrigues said, “There is no question of a split as the Archbishop has only issued an appeal. It is a request to the people to pray and it is their choice whether they want to join in or not. Some people were shown saying that they are supporting the PM. What I don’t understand is, when and where have we said we are opposed to the PM? We have not said anything about any political person.”
 
 On the   being mentioned, Father   said, “The Vatican has nothing to do with Indian politics. It is being dragged into this unnecessarily.” 
 
 TOI reported on Tuesday the Archbishop has launched a prayer campaign and appealed for fasting on Fridays ahead of the 2019 general elections to safeguard the values of “equality, liberty and fraternity” laid down in the Constitution. The appeal made to all parish priests and religious institutions in the Archdiocese of the national capital on May 8 asks for special prayers, citing the prevalence of “turbulent political atmosphere”.
 
 Father Robinson Rodrigues told TOI on Monday this is not the first time such a prayer campaign was being launched. “The call for prayer for peace and free and fair elections happens before every election. It happened in 2014 and before that too.”
 
 
