COIMBATORE:   Investigation Agency (NIA) will probe the sensational murder of Hindu Munnani spokesperson C  . A fresh FIR (first information report) has been registered in the case by   officials from Kochi on Wednesday. The FIR details have been submitted to the special court for NIA cases at Poonamallee in Chennai.

 Four suspects were already arrested by the crime-branch-CID (special investigation division), Coimbatore, in connection with the case. They were charged under section 302 of the IPC and Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. 
 
 Meanwhile, a NIA team from Hyderabad, led by superintendent of police LR Kumar, is camping in Coimbatore to collect more details about the murder case and suspects.
 
 Sasikumar was hacked to death by a four-member gang at Subramaniyampalayam on September 22, 2016. Initially, the case was investigated by the Coimbatore rural police. Eight special teams were formed to nab the murderers. As the rural police didn’t make any breakthrough in the case, it was transferred to CB-CID (SID), Coimbatore. The CB-CID arrested Syed Abudhakir, 29, of KK Nagar in Saibaba Colony in connection with the murder. Though Syed Abudhakir was not directly involved in the murder, he was a close of friend of one of the suspects. 
 
 Later, the CB-CID arrested S  , 27, S Zubair, 33, of GM Nagar in Ukkadam in connection with the case. On interrogation, the duo revealed that   of Coimbatore was the mastermind of the murder. 
 
 Two months ago, Mubarak was also arrested by the CB-CID police and he was remanded in judicial custody. While Mubarak is still behind bars, Syed Abudhakir, Saddam Hussain and Zubair were released under conditional bail. 
 
 Investigations also revealed that Khani, 37, of Rathinapuri in Coimbatore, was also part of the gang. But he died of cardiac arrest a few months ago. The police also tried to establish the role of Khani in the murder. 
 
 According to police sources, the suspects had told the investigating officers that they plotted to murder Sasikumar to avenge the murder of J Abdul Hakkim, 27, a wall painter from Krishnaraj Colony in Ganapathy. Abdul Hakkim was murdered in September 2016. 
 
 But the police suspect that the murderers were operated by a group of outfits. The NIA has planned to take custody of the four suspects arrested by the CB-CID (SID), Coimbatore. 
 
 
