She hails from neighbouring Odisha but is often mistaken for a Bengali. “People often think I am Bengali. They say, ‘Didi, amio Bangali’. And I am like, ‘Well that’s great, but I’m not, you see,’” says   flashing a million dollar smile. In a quick chat with CT on the sidelines of  , the actress-director talks about her most ambitious project,  , her Kolkata connect and things that matter to her. Excerpts…

  
 
 
  Well, I’ve been busy with other things. Though I keep visiting Kolkata, I don’t come here as an actor anymore. The last time I came here was for a lit fest. The last seven years have been extremely busy. I was the chairperson of Children’s Film Society and I might have taken my role too seriously (laughs). It was an honorary post and you can do as much or as little as you want. But I felt if I’m doing it, I might as well put my heart into it. We organised two international film festivals, produced films and made sure children films were distributed. I also wrote a play called Between The Lines. And most importantly, I spent time with my son, who is now seven and a half years old. Besides, I’ve been busy researching on Manto (Saadat Hasan) since 2012. It’s a vast subject that required me to go through a lot of reading material. He died in 1955 and there aren’t too many people who’ve actually met him.
 
  
 
 
  It’s quite a daunting project to begin with (laughs). I started off with the pure intention to tell the audience about what is happening today through Manto’s story — the way the country is functioning, the way the politics of identity takes place in the name of religion and nationalism, the state of freedom of speech and more. I think this is my chance to express how I feel about things around us. But I realised the challenges only once I started working on it. Recreating Mumbai and Lahore of the ’40s is very tough. With ACs and satellite dishes and grills, we live in an urban clatter. Also, you have to have a huge budget to make a period film and we were working on a shoestring budget. I used up all my goodwill (laughs). We got a lot of people to work either for free or for less than what they usually make. But fortunately, a lot of people have supported me. It will be completed by April and then we’ll see which festival picks it (laughs). We’ll try for  , of course. But then they get thousands of films.
 
  
 
 
  Everyone thinks that if you are a part of the jury there, the festival is in your pocket. But it doesn’t work like that. And it shouldn’t. I’d never use my friendship to find my way through it. In any case, you can’t because the system is very strict. So, if Cannes doesn’t work out, we’ll try Toronto. And soon after its world premiere, we’ll release it in India.
 
  
 
 
  How can I not? Unless something dramatic or sensational happens, we barely get to know about such issues. The urban population knows little about the plight of marginalised people, whose stories are diminishing today. I have always championed issues about women, secularism and everything that has an impact on our lives. Voicing your opinion as a concerned citizen can help save many lives. I am not a full-time activist but I feel passionate about many things in life and voice my concerns. I feel fortunate to have access to various media platforms — social media, films, talk shows et al.
 
  
 
 
  Forget about the censorship by a government board, there are so many independent custodians of culture that it is almost scary. Many of us are even scared to speak up because of this constant cultural policing. Today we also see a lot of self-censorship around us. But hopefully, despite all that, there will be enough voices that will speak what they must.
 
  
 
 
  We all have multiple identities. Besides acting and directing, I used to write a column for a magazine for eight years. I am also a mother, a writer and a speaker, among other things. All of these roles are a part of my life. Something takes precedence over the other at a particular time. For instance, right now my biggest preoccupation is completing my film.
 
 
