TIRUVANNAMALI: A 37-year-old   was arrested on Wednesday for opening fire at his mother in order to scare her, at Konnarampattu village in Tiruvannamalai, over a property dispute. The elderly woman escaped since the gun was loaded with a  . The Kannamangalam police seized a   from K Kadhiravan and remanded him in judicial custody. 

 The incident took place around 9am on Tuesday when Kasiammal, 67, widow of Kanna Goundar, was alone at her newly constructed house in the village, police said. 
 
 Kadhiravan, who joined the Indian Army 10 years ago, is working in Madhya Pradesh and had come to Chennai on March 7 on duty, to deliver letters to his senior officials in Chennai. After delivering the letters, he reached his native village on March 8 with permission from his senior officer. 
 
 Kadhiravan apparently got married seven years ago but separated from his wife a year after marriage, police said. 
 
 On Monday night, Kadhiravan went to his mother’s house and demanded that she transfer the ownership of the house to him. She denied his demand and stated that the property would be shared equally among all her children. “He approached his mother again on Tuesday morning and asked her to shift the property to his name. But his mother refused to do so. He then went to his house and returned with his licenced double barrel gun, and aimed at his mother from outside the house, through a window,” a police officer said. 
 
 Howvever, when Kadhiravan opened fire, the woman lowered her head and escaped. Meanwhile, on hearing the sound of the gunshot, neighbours came to the rescue of the elderly woman, while Kadhiravan fled the spot. 
 
 Inquires revealed that Kadhiravan loaded the gun with a dummy round (drill round) to threaten his mother. “Though it is a licenced gun, the Army man had failed to register it with the district police. He used the gun with an intention to scare his mother and get the house transferred to his name,” said the police official. 
 
 The police later arrested him from his hideout in the village and seized the gun. Acting on a complaint from Kadhiravan’s brother Saravanan, the police registered a case under Sections 294 (b) and 307 of the IPC read with 25 (1) (B)/(a) of the Arms Act and apprehended him. 
 
 “We have informed the Army about the incident,” the police official added.
 
 
