COIMBATORE: Sleuths from the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday raided five homes here in connection with the murder of Hindu Munnani spokesman C  .

 NIA teams began raids at the homes of Haider Ali of Sugunapuram in Kuniyamuthur, Anees of Fatima Nagar in Kuniyamuthur, Bipin Rehman of Selvapuram, Mohammed Ali of Vellakinaru and Saddam Hussain of Thudiyalur from 4.30am. They seized several mobile phones, SIM cards, documents, diaries, CDs and books from the homes.
 
 The five men were in contact with the accused, who were arrested in connection with the  , NIA sources said. “The men had known the accused and could have been involved in the case in some way. We have phone call records that suggested that these men had spoken to the accused,” an officer said.
 
 “Haider Ali is a real estate businessman. Anees is doing steel business and Bipin Rehman has a cellphone shop. The other two are also  ,” the officer said.
 
 The officers wanted to verify if the men were part of any banned group. After finishing raids at his home, the team took Haider to the unit from where he published a community newspaper.
 
 Meanwhile, family members of the five men petitioned the city police commissioner seeking relief from NIA investigation. Since the special investigation department of the CB-CID had completed the investigation, there was no point of NIA ‘torturing’ them again, they said. “There is a political motive behind this. They are asking us about PFI and various political parties. They threaten us that they will send us summons and if we fail to appear, they will get us arrested. They are forcing us to sign documents,” father of one of the men said.
 
 Last week, a family from Selvapuram had also petitioned the city police commissioner alleging torture by NIA officials. Febin Rahman said he had been forced to make statements and was also subjected to torture.
 
 Sasikumar of Subramaniyampalayam was hacked to death by a four-member gang on September 22, 2016 while he was returning home on his motorcycle. 
 
 CB-CID arrested Syed Abudhakir of KK Nagar in Saibaba Colony, S Saddam Hussain of GM Nagar in Ukkadam, the alleged mastermind Mubarak and S Zubair of GM Nagar Ukkadam, who were all members of Popular Front of India (PFI). Abudhakir and Saddam Hussain are out on bail while Mubarak and Zubair are lodged in the Salem Central Prison. Zubair’s bail petition has been approved and he will be released on bail soon, a police officer said.
 
 
