BHOPAL: The   candidate for Kolaras bypolls   filed his nomination papers on Wednesday afternoon flanked by senior party leaders. The party’s show of unity for Kolaras and   assembly bypolls was evident as Jyotiraditya Scindia,  , Suresh Pachauri,  , Ajay Singh, Arun Yadav and AICC general secretary in-charge of state affairs Deepak Babaria stood beside Mahendra Singh Yadav as he filed his nominations at around 1:30 pm at the SDM office in Kolaras in Shivpuri district. All leaders from the state, except for Digvijaya Singh who is presently on the Narmada Padyatra, were not only present for the nomination filing of Mahendra Singh Yadav, but also took part in a road show both in Kolaras and Mungaoli which go to bypolls on February 24.

 Scindia along with Deepak Babaria, Suresh Pachauri, Arun Yadav and Kantilal Bhuria reached Badarwas, 20 km from Kolaras. There they were joined by former Union minister and MP from Chhindwara Kamal Nath and leader of opposition Ajay Singh. Hundreds of motorbikes and vehicles participated in the road-show which started at 10:30 am and reached Kolaras at 1:30 pm where Mahendra Singh Yadav filed his papers. Speaking to reporters in Guna, Jyotiraditya Scindia said, “The BJP has ruled the state for 14 years, but it did bother about Kolaras and Mungaoli. BJP leaders are coming here now as guests and they are welcome. However, the BJP’s defeat is certain.” Scindia claimed that there has been no development in the two assembly constituencies and Congress will highlight issues like lack of development, farmers’ crisis and crimes and women during the election campaign.
 
 At Mungaoli, Congress candidate Brijesh Singh Yadav filed his nomination papers flanked by district Congress office-bearers at 11:30 am. However, Congress’ road-show which ended in Kolaras at 1:30 pm came to Mungaoli at 2 pm. Headed by all party stalwarts, Mungaoli also saw another show of strength of Congress in BJP-ruled  . The procession started from Bahadurpur, 20 km from Mungaoli and travelled through the highways till 5 pm. 
 
 
