Ludhiana: The Congress swept the Ludhiana municipal corporation elections and secured 62 out of 95 wards. The ruling party had expected more than 70 seats, but alliance between SAD and BJP, and LIP and AAP upset their applecart. The SAD-BJP has emerged as the biggest Opposition with 21 seats, while LIP clinched only seven seats and its alliance partner AAP, one.

 The initial trends showed the Congress leading and within four hours the results were almost final. There was a tough competition at some seats, while a few others were a cakewalk for the Congress candidates.
 
 Congress leaders, including Balkar Singh, Jaiprakash, Pal Singh Grewal, Gurpreet Gogi, Mamta Ashu, Rakesh Prashar and Maharaj Singh Raji, won. SAD’s Harbhajan Dang managed to save his position by winning with a margin of only 357 votes. The youngest candidate from the Congress, Yuvraj Sidhu, gave the former Akali Dal district president a tough fight.
 
 However, from ward 75, Congress’ Amrit Varsha Rampal won with a thin margin of 774 votes, defeating Sukhminder Kaur Bhinda of SAD. It was in this ward that firing incident was reported on the election day. A prominent SAD face, Tanvir Dhaliwal, lost to Congress newcomer Dilraj Singh by a margin of 1,243 votes.
 
 SAD candidate Pushpinder Kaur, wife of former mayor Harcharan Singh Gohalwaria, was defeated from ward 41 and LIP’s Charanjit Kaur was declared winner by a margin of 882 votes.
 
 Harkaran Vaid, son of Congress MLA Kuldeep Vaid, wrested ward 44 from SAD’s Meetpal Singh with a margin of only 221 votes. On polling day, Meetpal had levelled allegations of bogus voting against the Congress. Repolling was conducted at two booths of ward 44.
 
 As soon as the names of winners were announced, supporters started dancing to the beats of dhol and distributed sweets among party workers. The Congress leaders gathered outside MP Ravneet Bittu’s residence for celebrations. 
 
 New MC house members 
 
 Congress -- 62
 
 SAD- 11
 
 BJP-10
 
 LIP-7
 
 AAP- 1
 
 Independents -- 4
 
 Highest victory margin
 
 Baljinder Singh (Congress) -- 5,154 votes
 
 Balkar Singh (Congress) -- 3,902 votes
 
 Pankaj Sharma (Congress) -- 3,860 votes
 
 Mamta Ashu (Congress) -- 3,512 votes
 
 Manpreet Grewal (Congress) -- 3,421 votes
 
 Lowest victory margin
 
 Divya (SAD)-- 14 votes
 
 Gurmail Singh (SAD)-- 20 votes
 
 Sarabjit Kaur (INC) --27 votes
 
 Neelam Sharma (Congress)-- 29 votes
 
 Paramjit Singh (SAD) -- 36 votes
 
 Sole AAP winner 
 
 Aam Aadmi Party won just one seat in Ludhiana municipal corporation elections. Its candidate from ward 11, Balwinder Kaur, polled 1,832 votes more than her nearest rival Asha Garg of the Congress. 
 
 Then and now 
 
 As compared to the previous MC house, both the SAD and its alliance partner BJP have won lesser seats. While SAD bagged 27 seats in the previous election, this time its score is 11. BJP has 10 seats in its bag as compared to 12 it won in 2012. Together, the alliance had won 39 seats, but now it has been reduced to 21. The Congress, however, has made a giant leap from 19 seats in 2012 to 62 seats. In the previous house, there were 17 independent candidates. But this time, only four independent candidates could make it to the MC house, with AAP-LIP eating into their vote share. 
 
 
