

 CHANDIGARH: It may seem strange but the sector where the municipal corporation fills its tankers for the entire city gets no water supply from this source when in need.
 
 “In two hours I made four calls on help line number about the requirement of the water tank in the sector but no supply is made in the area”, said Surinder Sharma, president resident welfare sector 15 on Saturday. This is not the story of Surinder   but there are several others also who have same story to be told about the water supply through tankers. 
 
 Residents of Sector 15 claim they are tired calling MC-provided helpline number 0172- 2155304 but still struggling to get  . “The MC registers complaint after complaint but never sends any tanker to Sector 15. Residents alleged that even after an assurance from the MC official who had been receiving their calls over the helpline number, they had kept waiting for water tankers all day. They have little water supply, that too at low pressure for the past two weeks.”
 
 Bhupender Singh, a student putting up in Sector 15, said earlier he was able to fill his overhead tanks on the first floor by running a motor but, for the past one week, no resident had been able to do so. Local resident Harbir Singh said: “Last year also, the residents of Sector 15 had faced a similar problem. Their water supply discontinues well before the 9am schedule. The paying guests in my house have to get up early to fetch water from the ground floor for their morning bath. Even the families on the ground floor depend on the bottled water for drinking.”
 
 Local resident   said: “Even the quality of drinking water has declined along with the volume of supply. My group of students is trying to cope up with it by storing a couple of buckets of water for washing and doing the dishes, but that too is insufficient.” Resident   said: “For years, the sector has not witnessed a water crisis as big as this summer’s. Not a single tank on the second and third floors is filled with water for the past many days.”
 
 Resident   said: “Due to low water pressure, I can’t even store water in tanks or put clothes into the washing machine. I am so accustomed to using the washing machine that I can’t wash my clothes by hand.”
 
 Satvant Kaur, also from Sector 15, said: “Along with the pressure, even the quality of drinking water supply has declined. The rest of my family drinks bottled water but I am habitual of consuming regular tap water.”
 
 Resident Surender Sharma said: “I rang up the MC helpline four times within two hours. Even after registering my complaint, the municipal corporation of Chandigarh has not sent any water tanker to the sector.”
 
 
