NEW DELHI:   of the   who crashed a car into a road divider killing two of her friends in   of northwest Delhi has revealed that her blood   was 137mg/cc, which is nearly five times the permissible limit of 30mg/cc.

 DCP (northwest) Aslam Khan confirmed liquor bottles were present in the car. Investigating officers who questioned the car driver, 19-year-old Diksha Dadu, and her friend Joshita Mohanty said that the group had planned a get together as it was the final day of a cultural festival in their college.
 
  
 Dadu and one of the deceased, Siddharth Singh, are school friends. She had invited him and Ritesh Dahiya to the festival where they met Rashi Sharma and Mohanty. “The group bought liquor from a shop in Noida after leaving their college around 8pm and went to Connaught Place where they stayed till midnight,” an investigating officer said.
 
 The women told police that they left Connaught Place to go to North Campus. Dahiya and Singh wanted to stay there at a friend’s flat as it was late to go back home, but they decided to drop the girls back to Noida at the college hostel. En route, they planned to eat somewhere.
 
 Dadu’s family members told police that she used to commute daily between Prashant Vihar to her college in Noida.
 
 “The girl’s uncle told us that she usually returned home by 6pm. However, on Sunday she informed them that she may come a little late as she was going out with friends. She had also indicated about staying in the hostel with Mohanty and Sharma,” a police officer said, adding that Mohanty was new to the group and had met the men for the first time on Sunday.
 
 A probe is also on to check if Dadu had committed any other traffic violations in the past. The i20 car involved in the   was also checked for past accidents, but no results have come out so far. The car was bought one-and-a-half-years ago by Dahiya’s father when he got admission in Delhi University. He used to commute daily from Sonipat to his college in Dhaula Kuan in the car.
 
 Singh’s family conducted the youth’s last rites at their village near Chhawla on Sunday evening. Neighbours said that his father was informed about the accident around 3am on Sunday. The family was not aware with whom he had gone to party.
 
 The blood samples of the other four occupants of the car have been sent to a forensics laboratory to ascertain the presence of alcohol. The statement of Rashi Sharma will be recorded by police after she recovers from her collar bone fracture. She was shifted to a private hospital on Monday morning.
 
 
