NEW DELHI:   has lined up mega investment to scale up its operations, including a revamp of the signalling system across its network, a new $3-billion electric locomotive unit and a station-development plan for large cities such as Mumbai. Together these projects could be worth over $15 billion (around Rs 96,000 crore).

 Railway minister  , who was in   last week, told TOI that discussions are underway to ensure that the deals are structured in a way that local manufacturing gets a fillip and cost comes down. “We want to replicate the model that was used for  , where the cost was brought down. If costs are lower and local manufacturing is ensured, we will scale up investments,” Goyal said.
 
 Over the next few weeks, the railways is planning extensive consultations to work out a model that serves the twin goals with the minister maintaining that funds are not going to be a constraint. “There is enough   and we have many options to raise resources,” he said.
 
 The government has stepped up investment in railways as it seeks to modernise the creaking infrastructure, a result of low investment and overuse. Railways’   has increased from Rs 35,000 crore five years ago to Rs 1.3 lakh crore during the current fiscal, which is partly led by the need to step up public investment at a time when the private investment remains muted due to excess capacity and stressed finances of several Indian companies.
 
 Complete modernisation of railways’ signalling system, including automation at a cost of Rs 78,000 crore, is expected to get approval in the Budget, sources said. The Budget is set to focus on electrification as railways has advanced the deadline for complete switchover from diesel to electric by two years to 2020.
 
 As the transporter may get Rs 65,000 crore as gross budgetary support (GBS), an increase of Rs 10,000 crore from the last one, it will generate funds from internal resources and also from market to meet the huge requirement for infrastructure modernisation.
 
 The new signalling system, meant to bring about greater efficiency, will be spread across 65,000 route km. This number is only going to increase in the future and the railways intends to leverage it to get a better deal from whoever bags the keen-watched contract.
 
 Two locomotive factories in Bihar — an electrical unit in Madhepura and a diesel unit in Marhowrah — is under execution under PPP mode. Railways has planned a Rs 20,000-crore facility in Kanchrapara in West Bengal for manufacturing EMU (electric multiple unit)/MEMU (mainline electric multiple unit) coaches. 
 
 Sources in Rail Bhawan indicated that if the loco offer is good then the public transporter will increase size of the deal.
 
 
