CHANDIGARH: Missing out on the name of the case at the court hearing would be a thing of the past. Now, speakers have been installed outside all courtrooms at Chandigarh district court complex. This is being done to facilitate the litigants, who otherwise used to miss out the name of the case, when their case was called for hearing. At times, the litigants failed to appear before the court on time, which resulted in several adjournments.

 But now the scenario will change at the Chandigarh district court complex. It is becoming high-tech with each passing day. Also, the court is getting electronic gadgets, which will not only save time and resources but will also promote transparency. So, why is the court complex becoming high-tech?   passed the directions to lower courts that they should use technology to save time of both litigants and court.
 
 Earlier, just one speaker was installed at the courtroom of the additional district and session judge   on a trial basis. However, after the winter break, speakers have been installed outside all the courtrooms. Many a times, the petitioner fails to hear when his/her case has come up for hearing. These technological advancements will not only improve the infrastructure but will also facilitate the litigants so that they don’t miss their case names.
 
 After much reluctance, the judiciary has allowed   cameras inside the courtrooms. Each court has two CCTV cameras, which help in video recording the proceedings of the court. A total of 62 CCTV cameras have been installed inside 31 court rooms at Chandigarh district court complex. One camera is installed at the entry gate and other is installed at the back where the judge sits. In this way, these cameras cover the full view of the courtroom and record the entire proceedings and happenings inside the courtroom. This again has been being done as per   directions. The Supreme Court had asked to install close circuit (CCTV) cameras inside lower courts in at least two districts in every state and   within the next three months. However, the footage from these videos or feeds will not be open to the public under the Right to Information Act.
 
 Apart from CCTV cameras, the courtrooms also have LCD screens to facilitate video conferencing. This facility is already being used in many cases. Now, with each courtroom have the facility of the LCD screen, it is expected that soon the accused would not have to be brought to the court physically. This will save lot of time and resources.
 
 Besides this, the district court corridors have been changed to suit the special needs of differently-abled persons. The corridors have tactile navigation tiles, which help the differently-able persons to navigate directions without anyone’s help. The stairs, too, have been designed for the visually impaired people with the installation of tactile warning strips. These would help the visually impaired people to use stairs on their own. 
 
 
