 DEHRADUN: The state government may have embarked upon an ambitious plan to rejuvenate Rispana by planting 2.5 lakh saplings along the course of 30 km of the river, but what is being done to check the slums lying along the river which have contributed greatly towards making the river the current mess that it is?
  
  A visit by a TOI team to a few of these slums on Sunday, a day after around 20,000 pits for tree plantation were dug by the CM and others revealed that no government official had visited them nor were any pits dug in these areas for tree plantation. The residents in these slums were also ignorant about the plans for the river chalked out by the government and other agencies. “If the government is planning to plant trees along the river, we would have been happy to dig pits near our homes. But nobody came here yesterday, nor are any of us aware about the river cleaning project,” said  , a teenager living at Adhoiwala slum for the past two years.
  
  As per an estimation exercise conducted in 2015, there are almost 1.5 lakh people living in 128 slums along the Rispana in Dehradun. Most of these slums cropped up in the past two decades after the city became the state capital. The worrying thing is that the sewage from these slums, which is dumped directly into the river, is one of the major contributors to pollution in the water body. Those homes that do not have sewage connection build their septic tanks on the riverbed and the sludge from it often seeps and mixes with the groundwater.
  
  Urban planning experts say that these slums and slum dwellers need to be made a part of the river’s rejuvenation plan, if the project has to succeed. “It is no doubt true that the slums and the pollution that they generate are the major cause of the pollution of Rispana. While the government’s initiative to plant trees should be appreciated but they need to address the elephant in the room too which is rehabilitation of these slums,” said  , founding president of student group ‘Making a Difference by Being The Difference’ that is playing an active role in Mission Rispana.
  
  Anoop Nautiyal, social activist and founder of Doon-based think tank  , added, “Unless the government involves slum dwellers in the project, there in no way that the river will be clean. What is required is a network of sewage lines and sewage treatment plants. All the establishments along the river should be linked to them so that the sludge does not flow into the river.”
  
  When queried about the issue, urban development minister   said, “This is the first phase of the project and later, our focus will be on other factors affecting the river as well. We are working on policies to rehabilitate slums. The effects will be visible in a few months.” 
