MUMBAI: The Indian School Certificate (ISC XII) exam results announced on Monday brought cheer to several students with the top three places bagged by 49 students across the country. The first rank was shared by seven students in the country, second by 17 and the third by 25 students. Mumbai, too, had its share of toppers—two students each at first, second and third ranks.

  from Smt Lilavatibai Podar High School and Tansa Shah from The Cathedral and   shared the top position in the country with five others from Lucknow and Kolkata. “I expected to be the school topper, may be even the city topper, but I thought that national topper was too high an aim to reach. It feels great,” said Chakraborty. Shah, an all-rounder in her school, said that not stressing about the board exams helped her excel. 
 
 In the country, 96.21% of the 80,880 students who took the ISC exam cleared it, a marginal drop of 0.3% from the previous year. The state’s success rate is higher than the country’s at 97.9%. However, the state’s performance dropped by 0.81% this year. Though many schools saw an increase in the number of students scoring 90% and above, there were a few that witnessed a drop. 
 
 Kalyani Patnaik, principal of Hiranandani Foundation School, said most of the humanities students at her school have done well in political science and in commerce, most students have done well in business studies. The performance of students in different subjects has not been consistent all over. 
 
 At Jamnabai Narsee School, humanities students have done better in sociology, psychology and geometrical and mechanical design. In commerce, students have performed well in commerce and accounts, and science students scored better in chemistry. Of the 238 students who took the ISC exam at Jamnabai Narsee School, 126 got 90% and above—similar to last year’s performance.
 
  The principal of   in Kharghar, Alice Vaz, said most of her students have scored well in physics, despite it being a dreaded subject. “The question paper was easier this time,” she added.
 
 A principal from a city school said that   is usually done at the bottom as well as at the top. “Marks of students are moderated at the bottom to see if they can be promoted to the next level and at the top to see if full marks should be granted. However, we do not have any evidence to prove that the overcrowding in the   in ISC could be due to lack of moderation at the top,” said the principal.
 
 
