NAGPUR: 32-year-old Deepak Bansod owned a tea kiosk at Reshimbagh but turned to burglary to build his dream home some day. However, the ill-gotten wealth has now landed him behind bars.

 The central jail now is likely to be his temporary home for quite some time given the number of offences detected against Bansod.
 
 Crime branch unit three, under assistant PI Dnyaneshwar Bhedodkar, detected 43 offences of burglaries and thefts by netting Bansod. Police said it’s rare that one man has been found involved behind so many offences.
 
 Bansod also showed another at least 45 different places to the cops where he has earlier broken into for valuables, but the owners opted to refrain from getting them recorded at police stations. Police said Bansod, who has only been nabbed once so far in 2011
 
 He had broken into more than 100 places in around seven years on the trot till he was nabbed at Mahal last week during patrolling. He is currently in police custody.
 
 Following a unique modus operandi, Bansod mostly targeted temples, shops and residences from where he opted to steal only those valuables which he required for daily use or had intended to use them for the new house when it would be ready.
 
 Bansod, who was staying at a rented house in Siraspeth, has left the cops stunned for his inclinations towards stealing coins rather than cash. Two drums of coins, apart from other valuables, were recovered from his residence.
 
 The prime reason behind Bansod’s stealing coins was that he would not attract any doubt if he used them as currencies rather than notes of bigger denominations. Bansod, for the sake of coins, had broken into at least 25 shrines to steal them.
 
 In June last year, Bansod left the cops in a tight corner after he had stolen donations from Dragon Palace in Kamptee. Despite being spotted in the   camera, the cops could not identity him. Apart from donations, Bansod had also stolen ornaments of the deities.
 
 Police said Bansod had a unique mindset of targeting only those material which he needed in his daily life and leaving behind others even when they would be valuables. Fearing being trapped by the cops, Bansod would not sell the stolen material but used them.
 
 API Bhedodkar’s squad comprising head constables Shailesh Thaore, Ashu Dubey, Sham Kadu, Atul Dawande, Manish Bhosle and Shatrughan Kadu the recovered stolen material worth around Rs3.91 lakh.
 
 Police said Bansod was so focussed in his mission that he would continue breaking into places until satisfied. “Bansod required a wall clock. In order to find the ones of his choice, he broke into around four shops. He wanted talcum powder for which he ensured breaking into a few medical stores,” said a police officer.
 
 The probe, under supervision of DCP (crime)   and ACP Ashwini Patil, has led to the detections of five offences under rural police (Ramtek, Khaparkheda, Kondhali, Saoner and  ) and 38 in the city.
 
 
