NEW DELHI: The eagerly awaited   section of Delhi Metro's   is finally going to open for public from May 29.

 
 The 25.6 kilometre long Janakpuri West –   corridor will be formally flagged off by the Union Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs (Independent Charge), Hardeep Singh Puri and Delhi Chief Minister   on May 28th May at 4.30pm from the Nehru Enclave Metro station.
 
 The dignitaries will flag off the inaugural train from Nehru Enclave and then travel to Hauz Khas. Passenger services on the stretch will begin from the next day, May 29 from 6am from the Kalkaji Mandir and Janakpuri West stations simultaneously.
 
 This section, comprising of 16 stations, will be the longest so far in Delhi Metro’s Phase III. With the opening of this stretch, the entire 38.2 kilometre long Janakpuri West –   corridor, covering the city’s arterial Outer Ring Road, will become operational.
 
 The highlights of this corridor will be the two new interchange facilities that will come up at Janakpuri West (with the Dwarka – NOIDA/ Vaishali Blue Line) and Hauz Khas (with the HUDA City Centre – Samaypur Badli Yellow line). The domestic terminals of the   will also be directly connected by the Metro. Commuters travelling from Gurugram will now be able to change trains at Hauz Khas to reach south Delhi and NOIDA within 50 minutes. Residents of NOIDA will also get direct connectivity to the domestic terminal of the airport.
 
 The stations on this corridor are - Janakpuri West, Dabri Mor, Dashrathpuri, Palam, Sadar Bazar, Terminal 1 – IGI Airport, Shankar Vihar, Vasant Vihar, Munirka, RK Puram, Hauz Khas, IIT, Panchsheel Park, Chirag Delhi, GK Enclave, Nehru Enclave. Out of the 25.6 kilometre long section, 23 kilometres are underground and the rest is elevated. Only two stations – Sadar Bazar and Shankar Vihar are elevated and the remaining stations are all underground.
 
 With the commissioning of this section, the entire Delhi Metro corridor will expand to 278 kilometres with 202 stations. After the opening of this section, 88 kilometres of Phase 3 corridors would have been commissioned and another 72 kilometres are in the final stages of completion.
 
