NEW DELHI: Former India captain   believes that  , who have slipped from third to fourth place on the   points table, must look beyond   and   for runs as they chase a playoff spot. The R Ashwin-led franchise play last-placed Rajasthan Royals in game two of today's IPL double-header, and a win would give them 12 points to stay ahead of lagging franchises such as Mumbai Indians, Royal Challengers Bangalore and Delhi Daredevils. 

 
 
 
 
 Writing in today's TOI, Srikkanth observed that KXIP slipping down the table left them in a tough spot as far as the playoffs are concerned. 
 
 "For a team that started with all guns blazing with five wins in the first six games, things look a little different now. The ill-planned chase against Hyderabad could hurt them badly in the final analysis," wrote Srikkanth, who captained India in four Test matches and 13 ODIs.
 
 "The over-dependence on their openers: Chris Gayle and KL Rahul has now become obvious. They need their other batsmen to fire and make it count. They do look a different side if there is a solid opening start; else they look completely vulnerable and exposed. The game against Rajasthan will present Kings XI with another opportunity to slowly put things back on track. Another area where they need to shore up is their fielding, too many easy runs given away in the field and catches going down has also upset their chances."
 
 
 
 
 Before the KXIP v Rajasthan match, third-placed Kolkata Knight Riders play defending champions Mumbai who are all but out of the running for a playoff spot.
 
 "A positive result for Kolkata would mean the end of the road for Mumbai while the result between Kings XI and Rajasthan will decide who is likely to break free from the tight situation in the points table. It does have all the makings of a Super Sunday," wrote Srikkanth.
 
 Keeping an eye on the playoff race, Srikkanth did not rule out a few surprises.
 
 "Chennai and Hyderabad look certain of making the playoffs but strange things have happened in the second half of the tournament. Gaining momentum and peaking at the right time is of paramount importance in a long drawn league. This might sound clichéd but this is the hard fact. Chennai and Mumbai are the teams that have mastered it in the past and the number of trophies in their cabinets are standing proof," he wrote.
 
 "Mumbai need to win each of their final five games to be in the play-offs. It is extremely difficult to do against well-matched teams but one cannot put it beyond them. The teams that rise with a string of wins in the second half are also the most dangerous sides in my opinion, primarily because they play aggressive and play without the fear of losing."
 
