AURANGABAD: Multiplexes in the city on Friday screened the controversial Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s   amid tight police security. However, the movie was screened without displaying the posters. 

 Most of the single screen theatres deferred the movie screening for a day as a precaution to avoid untoward eventuality.
 
 As a precautionary measure, the cinema halls that are scheduled to play the movie have unanimously avoided putting up its posters outside the theatres and multiplexes. Also the city police had on Wednesday evening carried out an all-out operation to ensure the movie is released without untoward incidents. The members and leaders of Rajput   that has strongly opposed the release of the film had been served notices under section 149 of CrPC for preventing cognizable offences. 
 
 The police vans were stationed in an around the cinema halls, particularly around those that screened the movie starring  , Ranbir Singh and  . Incidentally, the movie received overwhelming response from the people specially from youngesters who made it to the multiplexes in hordes to watch the movie.
 
 “An assistant commissioner of police, inspector and 50 constables were deployed at each multiplex screening the Padmaavat while five policemen in civil dress were keeping an eye on the probable miscreants inside the cinema hall to avoid any eventuality,” said a police official.
 
 Inspector Avinash Aghav, in-charge of the   police station, who was assigned the job of maintaining peace around one of the multiplexes, in view of the impending threats from Karni Sena activists, told TOI “Screening of the movie was peaceful. No untoward incident has happened. Though not many families showed up, but it was youngsters who thronged the cinema halls in large numbers.
 
 Earlier on Wednesday, the police had increased the vigil around the theatres and were ready to tackle any untoward incident. The police provided adequate bandobast to the cinema halls displaying the movie.
 
 A senior police official said that heavy bandobast was already at place ahead of Republic Day and the same has doubled up for the movie. Thus, leaving barely any scope for the miscreants to pose a challenge to law and order in the city. The official also pointed out that several companies of the   were stationed in the city.
 
 
