CENTURION: Coming into this second Test at the SuperSport Park, all the talk surrounding the selection of playing eleven got further ignited when former India opener   told a television channel three days ago:   should drop himself if he fails to perform in Centurion.

 That will not be the case. While the debate over team selection and the playing XI in the two Tests so far will continue, Kohli - an assertive skipper presently leading a timorous bunch of batsmen here - raised that bar on Monday.
 
 
 
 Here are a few things that Kohli has had to go through in the last two weeks: India not managing to save the Cape Town Test, them not gaining control of the Centurion Test, batsmen struggling to stand up to the opposition, a barrage of disparaging views over team selection, experts pouring opinions down his throat, opting for   over   raising all hue and cry, dropping   despite his first Test haul being questioned and more.
 
 
 
 And then, there was that other important task of Kohli himself scoring the runs.
 
 There was too much on his mind when he had walked out on the field on Sunday afternoon, at the fall of  's wicket - an utter brainfreeze that led to a run out.
 
 There's too much on his mind, one thought, when he dropped Kagiso Rabada at first slip off R Ashwin on Day Two. A decline in intensity is what it was attributed to.
 
 Kohli would have been tense when he walked out. The task on hand was to put all those thoughts away and concentrate on scoring runs. It had to be him because there was no one else. It had to be now because the time for another occasion had already passed. 'Intent' is what he had to fall back on, the word he likes to use often. It did see the skipper, brash in his quest to be among the best, switch to the split-brain therapy.
 
 The left took care of the baggage off the field. Right took care of on-field mission.
 
 India were 152 runs behind South Africa when the day began. Kohli walked out with  , just the partner one thought he needed at that moment. Disruption of patterns had to be the key if the likes of Kagiso Rabada - that unrelenting paceman who can bowl lengths and line like a machine - and the two had a good track to begin with.
 
 Pandya, in fact, looked good for the 66 minutes he stayed at the wicket, looking comfortable against a far less threatening SA attack. Kohli could've well heaved a sigh of relief as the partnership began, if not for Pandya ridiculously running himself out.
 
 It was during this stand that Kohli reached his century, 21st , with a double that included a joyous celebration even as he was called for the second run courtesy an overthrow. He had a point to prove, both to himself and his team.
 
 Pandya's exit saw the skipper partner R Ashwin to build India's second highest innings partnership of 71 runs as the two reduced the deficit. The newball would later help the hosts wrap up India's tail but until that came, Kohli would work his way to a neat 153.
 
 Trademark punches and drives had topped up Kohli's knock. The South Africans had been relentless, ordinariness of the pitch notwithstanding, and the India captain certainly played an innings that displayed sheer character. The thwack with which he punished South Africa's errors - little as they were - the batsman in Kohli was once again the day's unquestioned champion.
 
 
