NAGPUR: The state government’s effort to get farmers compensated from seed makers, on account of losses due to pink   attack, promises to be a long drawn out affair. More than 12 lakh farmers have filed complaints against seed companies, but only 900 cases have been taken up for hearing as yet.

 The office of director quality control (seeds) in the agriculture department began hearings on the basis of complaints since January. So far, only 900 complaints have been taken up, and are yet to be concluded.
 
 Getting compensation from seed companies is a part of the compensation package, as these companies had produced genetically modified cotton seeds that were supposed to be resistant to bollworm pest. The action is being taken under the Maharashtra Seed Act, which is normally resorted to in case of sporadic complaints. For the first time, complaints have been filed at a mass scale. The law calls for initial hearing before the director quality control. 
 
 As a result, all 12 lakh cases will have to be dealt with the director alone. Even the stand of the seed companies will have to be heard in each case.
 
 Hearing for the first 900 cases has not been completed as yet, because seed companies had sought certain documents pertaining to the field inspection reports. The papers have been submitted only recently.
 
 Sources say 900 is only a small number as compared to the total complaints filed. No time frame as such can be given for completion of the entire process.
 
 A proposal has been mooted to get the hearings done at each division, so that it reduces the burden on the director. There is also a plan to club all the cases concerning a single company in a district as one. This would also help finish the work faster, a source said. The proposals will have to be approved by the state government.
 
 After the director passes a compensation award, it can be further appealed by the seed companies. The seed industries have already contended that farmers have not followed the guidelines leading to losses. Certain farming practices had to be followed to ensure bollworm does not attack the crop. The industry has also stated that in the next season the seeds would be sold with a disclaimer about resistance to bollworm, a source said.
 
 
