Mumbai: Several multinational banks planning to set up shop in the   at   in Gujarat are awaiting an   clarification on capital requirement. While the RBI has granted permission to 11 Indian lenders, no multinational bank is yet present in the country’s first IFC, which is competing with the likes of Dubai and Singapore.

 In March 2015, the RBI had issued a notification under the foreign exchange management act operationalising Gujarat International Finance Tec (GIFT) City as an   (IFSC). It had also come out with a draft scheme for setting up   Banking Units (IBUs). The   for all purposes were treated as branches in foreign soil.
 
 “Several multinational banks have shown interest in setting up operations in the GIFT IFSC. While the guidelines are in place for IBUs, clarification is awaited on the issue of capital required to be maintained,” said Ajay Pandey, MD & group CEO, GIFT City. 
 
 In its guidelines for IBUs, the RBI had said that the parent of foreign bank branches would be required to provide a minimum capital of $20 million or equivalent in any currency, other than Indian rupees, to the IBU. Multinational banks are seeking clarification on whether the $20 million (Rs 126 crore) has to be maintained in the IBU itself or can be held at the parent branch in India. Indian banks do not maintain this capital at the IBU level. According to bankers, if the capital does not have to be maintained at the IBU, most large multinationals would want to be present to take advantage of the liberal regulations.
 
 Meanwhile, the government is fine-tuning guidelines to have a unified financial regulator for banking,   and   at GIFT IFSC. The setting up of a unified regulator and the opening of an office by   ( ) in GIFT IFSC is expected to improve the ease of doing business there.
 
 The presence of foreign banks is crucial for the development of the IFSC as the objective of any Global Financial Centre is to facilitate free flow of capital from other international centres. It is expected that institutions that go overseas to raise foreign currency resources will do so at the IFSC. 
 
 An Ahmedabad-based pharma company has raised foreign currency loans for an overseas acquisition from GIFT IFSC, and Yes Bank has become the first lender to establish a foreign currency-bond programme on the Global Securities Market at the BSE’s   ( ). The two exchanges at GIFT INX and NSE IFSC are recording daily turnovers of $250 million.
 
 
