PATNA: Hundreds of BTech students of   (MACET), who could not clear the annual examinations held in June-July last year, ransacked the furniture of college’s office and smashed windows to register their protest on Monday. After much delay, the results were announced in February this year. The protesting students alleged that despite being selected in campus placement drives, they could not join the job due to the delay and anomalies in declaration of results.

 The angry students even vandalised the principal’s chamber, prompting the college authorities to leave the office. The situation came under control only after police intervened. MACET is a Magadh University-affiliated college located in the city.
 
 Rishabh Raj, a fourth year student, said he lost his job as he was “wrongly” failed in the final year examination. “We requested the college authorities several times to take up the matter with the university administration and ensure re-evaluation of answer sheets, but to no avail. Our future is at stake now,” the student added.
 
 Some students said they missed the deadline of securing admission in other institutions of higher studies due to no fault of theirs. 
 
 “My result is still pending. Under the circumstances, I cannot appear for competitive examinations,” said Sudhir, another protesting student.
 
 College director Masood Ahmad has put the blame on the university administration. “The college is facing the wrath of students because of the university’s fault. It is for the first time in the history of the college that so many students have failed in annual examinations,” Ahmad said. He added 180 of 360 students failed in final year, seven in third year, and more than 50 in first and second years.
 
 “We raised the issue with the university officials on many occasions, but nothing happened. Instead, the university officials asked the failed students to appear for supplementary exam,” Ahmad added. He rued that even the MU vice-chancellor did not intervene to resolve the issue.
 
 
