The 65th National Film Awards were presented in Delhi on Thursday night amid protests against the President handing over only 11 awards out of 137, leading to many winners boycotting the ceremony. In a departure from tradition, the function held at Vigyan Bhavan was divided into two phases. The first set of awards was conferred by Union Information and Broadcasting Minister   and the Minister of State Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore. The second lot, which included posthumous recognitions for   and   (Dadasaheb Phalke and Best Actress, respectively), was presented by President Ram Nath Kovind. The two-phased ceremony also left guests confused as to whether they should attend only the second phase of the award ceremony or both.
However, the ceremony ultimately ended on a filmi note, with the President borrowing a Bollywood dialogue – picture abhi baaki hai – to wish the award winners, who were mostly from regional cinema. 
 
  
    and daughters Janhvi and Khushi collect the Best Actress Award on Sridevi’s behalf from President Ram Nath Kovind and I&B Minister Smriti Irani
 
 
 
 While announcing the National Film Awards last month, jury head Shekhar Kapur had said that even though regional cinema doesn’t have “a Shah Rukh Khan”, Hindi cinema doesn’t come close to it. And coincidentally, the President concluded the award ceremony on Thursday with a Shah Rukh Khan dialogue. Addressing the winners, he said, “May you and may our film industry go from strength to strength. To borrow a line from a film that some of you may remember – picture abhi baaki hai – the best is ahead of us.”
 
  
  
 Rima Das receives Best Film, Best Audiography and Best Editing from President Ram Nath Kovind and Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore, MoS, I&B, for Village Rockstars
 
 The big winners this year were regional films, and the President made the point that art has the power to go beyond language barriers. “One doesn’t need to know Bengali to understand the films of Satyajit Ray and Rithwik Ghatak... And let us not forget that AR Rahman – who has won the National Award again – made an early impression even among those who did not understand Tamil, but were nevertheless enchanted by his music,” he said.
 
  
  
 
 
 I&B Minister Smriti Irani pointed out that more than 21 of the winners were women. Rima Das, director and producer of Best Film winner Village Rockstars, got quite emotional when Smriti Irani mentioned her victory in her speech and said, “Rima Das ne ek sadharan si kahani li, Assam ke ek gaon ke baare mein kuch aise prastut ki, ki usne na keval har Hindustani ke dil ke taaron ko chhua, balki vishwa bhar mein Bharat ka naam raushan kiya.”
 Prakruti Mishra, who got a Special Mention for the Odia movie Hello Arsi, said, “I feel honoured to get this award, but it’s also a proud moment for me because my name is on the same list with an actor like Sridevi. It’s huge for me. When you look at a ceremony like this, you know nothing else can match up to this honour.”
 
  
  Prakruti Mishra receives Special Mention Award for the Odia film Hello Arshi from Smriti Irani and Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore
 
 
 
 Boney Kapoor, along with daughters Khushi and Janhvi, received the Best Actress National Award conferred upon Sridevi posthumously, for the film Mom. Before the ceremony, Boney said, “I wish she was here with us. She has always given her best to all her films. Unfortunately, she has been given this honour after she has left us.” He added, “As long as the entertainment industry exists, she will continue to entertain everybody.” 
 Janhvi, wearing her mother’s sari, was accompanied by her sister Khushi as they walked up to receive the award with their father. While both sisters remained calm, it was Boney who broke down during the I&B minister’s address. Remembering Sridevi, Smriti Irani said, “Aaj is manch par samman ek aisi mahila ka bhi hua jo ab hamare beech mein nahin hai. Jinhe shayad pehli baar is samman se nawaza ja raha hai. Kisne socha tha ek din yeh samman unhe marnoparant prapt hoga.” 
 Rahman, who was given the Best Music Director award for the songs of the Tamil film Kaatru Veliyidai and for the background score of Mom, said, “Coming back here is nostalgic because my first movie got a National Award. This time again, it is very special, because this time it is for Mom.”
 
  
   , winner of Best Actor for  , with  
 
 
 
 Paying tribute to the late Vinod Khanna, who was posthumously awarded the Dada Saheb Phalke Award, Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore, Minister of State, I&B, tweeted, “Legends live forever! With a career spanning over four decades and an eternal legacy, Late Sh Vinod Khanna ji was one of them. His was a journey that deserved the Dada Saheb Phalke award.”
 Actor Akshaye Khanna, who was teary-eyed during the ceremony, said, “I wish my father was here to receive this award. I am missing him. It is very humbling as a son to be receiving this on his behalf. It’s a very proud and emotional moment for all of us.”
 
  
  WINNERS' GALLERY: (L-R) Divya Dutta, who won Best Supporting Actress, Pankaj Tripathi, Special Mention and Ganesh Acharya, Best Choreography
 
  
 
 The ceremony, for the most part, stayed away from the topic of the boycott by 55 awardees who didn’t turn up even after Shekhar Kapur’s persuasion. After the awardees found out that the ceremony would be held in two phases, they wrote a letter to the Directorate of Film Festivals (DFF), saying, “It feels like a breach of trust when an institution/ceremony that abides by extreme protocol fails to inform us of such a vital aspect of the ceremony with a prior notice. It seems unfortunate that 65 years of tradition are being overturned in a jiffy.” During the ceremony, the DFF officials didn’t announce the names of the signatories who didn’t attend it. 
 However, there were plenty of such moments when an awardee’s name was called out and Smriti Irani and Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore waited in vain for the recipient, or the reshuffling led to awards being delayed for an awardee who was present. 
 Shekhar Kapur later tweeted, “As filmmakers, rebellion is in our DNA. Let controversy not stop us from celebrating the breathtaking talent and creativity we as Jury members saw. Creativity and talent that lay beyond what we call Bollywood. We are about to witness rise of a new Indian Cinema.” 
 
  
  Shekhar Kapur, jury head, with Sunil Sethi, who designed the venue for the award ceremony
 
 
 
 Pankaj Tripathi, who won a Special Mention award for Newton, and Divya Dutta, who won the Best Supporting Actress award for the Punjabi film Irada, were all smiles throughout the ceremony. Divya, who received her award from the I&B minister, said, “It’s my first National award. My certificate will have the President’s stamp and it doesn’t matter if I get it from him or not.” Boney Kapoor also pointed out that he would have been equally happy if the I&B minister had given him the award, and that he doesn’t understand what the fuss is about. 
 Riddhi Sen, who received the National Film Award for Best Actor, expressed solidarity with the protesting award winners, but said that this award is less about who hands it over, and more about the acknowledgement of one’s work. He said, “I am happy to be present in the same space as legends like Rahman Sir. He is an example of how the National Award means you have just begun – he got his first National Award for his first film and he didn’t stop there. He went on to do excellent work, and this time he is here for his fourth National Award. I want to achieve that excellence in my career.”
 
 
  
  President Ramnath Kovind with Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore, MoS, I&B, present the Best Music Director and Best Background Score Award to AR Rahman
 
 
  
  Amar Singh and Prasoon Joshi
 
  
  
 
 
