KOLKATA: The domestic help, who had been looking after 89- year-old Gopal Chandra   for the past few days after the police found his wife’s frozen body inside a freezer on the ground floor of his Behala house, left the job on Sunday in “fear of ghost”. 

 In fact, Majumdar himself is no longer willing to stay at the house any more and has asked some of his relatives to find a good oldage home, where he wants to spend the rest of his life. “She told uncle that she was hearing voices and could not work in the house any more. She had left home on Saturday night but didn’t turn up on Sunday. When we called, she told she would not return,” said a relative of the Majumdars. 
 
 Since Thursday, the domestic help had been a constant support to Dey, taking care of him, efficiently managing the kitchen, buying essentials and patiently attending to a flurry of visitors — from relatives and neighbours to cops and media persons. However, as the buzz dimmed and people stopped frequenting the house, she allegedly started feeling uneasy staying at the house. “She told us that constant questioning by police and media persons has also unnerved her,” said the relative. 
 
 Meanwhile, left lonely at the house, with his son   in an asylum, Majumdar has reportedly told his relatives to send him to an old-age home. “He has told us that he doesn’t want to live in the house any more and asked me to look for an old-age home. We told him that we all are here to take care of him but he says he doesn’t want to stay in this house,” said Tollygunge-based Ruma Chakraborty, the daughter of Bina Majumdar’s sister. Chakraborty and Subhabrata’s other cousins have been regularly visiting the house to look after Majumdar and are also enquiring with cops about Bina Majumdar’s body that has been kept at Katapukur morgue for autopsy. 
 
 “After the maid left, I told uncle that I would be bringing food from home. But he refused and said that he would have puffed corn for lunch and dinner. He also said he wanted to stay alone,” said Chakraborty. She had called an officer of Behala police station in the afternoon to know if they would be handing over the body on Sunday but didn’t receive a “favourable” reply. In the meantime, strangers kept peeping through the broken window on the ground floor and some even tried to enter the house but found the door bolted from inside. 
 
 “This house used to be a dream place for us during our childhood days. We used to come over here and play in the spacious rooms, the terrace and the verandah. This was the first house in the locality that had a dish antennae and people used to talk about it. But look what has happened today. People are still talking about it but for a different reason,” Chakraborty said.
