NAGPUR: The   forest division officials under Gadchiroli Circle on Monday night busted an interstate teak smuggling racket by arresting five persons and seizing 111 logs of wood worth Rs3.18 lakh.

 Talking to TOI, Sironcha deputy conservator of forests (DyCF) Tushar Chavan said acting on a tip of sub-divisional forest officer Shankar Gajalwar and range forest officers (RFO) Vinayak Narkhedkar laid a trap midnight to nab the culprits. SDPO Gajanan   also coordinated the raid.
 
 In the wee hours, patrolling teams intercepted a truck laden with teak going toward   in neighbouring  . “When we stopped the truck near Mariguddam, three accused including the driver fled under cover of darkness. Later we managed to arrest five accused,” said Chavan.
 
 The accused have been identified as Sadanand Bandula, Parikota, Shravankumar Katkoji, Hanamkonda, Gundeboina Ramswami, Pambapur, Laishetty Rajlingu, Kamanpur, all from Telangana and Pocham Gawde, Mariguddam in Sironcha. Hunt for other accused have been launched.
 
 Smuggling of precious teak from Sironcha is a chronic crime where smugglers from Telangana and   are involved. The smugglers hire locals for felling teak for petty sums and transport the material to their state with local help. Every year teak worth crores is smuggled out from Sironcha. Since 2010, cost of illegally felled timber would be well over Rs25 crore.
 
 However, Chavan, who joined in 2016, says in the last couple of few years, the forest department has managed to curb teak smuggling due to interstate meetings between  , Maharashtra and Telangana forest officials.
 
 “In the last 9 months of 2017, teak worth Rs25.89 lakh was felled,” said Chavan. He added an interstate meeting held on December 7, 2017 between Telangana and Maharashtra emphasized on joint patrolling. “Hand-shaking after regular intervals conducted at range level has been appreciated by both the states,” he said.
 
 “Of the late the involvement of local police force has started as SDPO Sironcha and police officers from Telangana are taken into confidence for controlling smuggling activities. Information network is being strengthened,” Chavan said.
 
 The forest official informed that a camp had established by Maharashtra side at Somnur which has staff of all three states, and frequent visits of staff and joint patrolling at that point has started. This activity is monitored at DFO level.
 
 
