PUNE: Citizens are forced to depend on personal vehicles, cabs and autorickshaws with the existing public sector buses failing to cater to their needs and the multi-crore   project being nowhere near the commissioning stage. 

 The trend was clear as the   (RTO) on Wednesday released the latest figures of vehicle registration that revealed a sharp rise in the number of two-wheelers,  , autorickshaws and cabs. 
 
  
 With private cab aggregators such as Ola and Uber expanding their base in the city, registration of such vehicles shot up to 28,344 as on March 31 this year from the same date in 2017. In 2016, the total number of cabs and taxis stood at 10,076. 
 
 Similar was the situation with autorickshaws with the number of three-wheelers recording a rise of 8,223 units between March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2018. 
 
 The two-wheeler growth story continued to accelerate in 2018, with their number crossing the 27 lakh-mark as on March 31, 2018 — an increase of 2 lakh as compared to what it was on March 31, 2017.
 
 RTO officials said figures of vehicles in the   (PCMC) areas were still being collected and would be released within a couple of days.
 
 Transport activists said the citizens continued to depend on private vehicles and cabs or autorickshaws because the existing public transport system is unreliable and in a shambles. 
 
 “This is leading to the rise in the number of private vehicles, be it cars or two-wheelers. The city’s administrators have failed to run the public buses effectively. If properly looked after, the buses could have served the city most efficiently. This would have reduced the number of two- and four-wheelers,” transport activist Yatish Devadiga said.
 
 “For a common man with a decent income, buying a two-wheeler or hiring a cab or an autorickshaw is always a better option than depending on a   (PMPML) bus,” he added.
 
 Dhairyashil Vandekar, an aviation expert with adequate knowledge in public transport, said, “An affordable and efficient public transport system is the need of the hour for those representing the economically weak, middle and working classes. A smart city is recognized by the ease and comfort of its public transport system.” 
 
 He added, “The city urgently needs a reliable public transport system that offers comfortable commute, affordable fares, dependable frequency and round-the-clock access to all areas. The number of vehicles is rising, but the road space remains the same. The result is congestion. The situation can change only if there’s a strong political will.”
 
 Transport activist Satish Sawale said, “The authorities are yet to effectively advertise e-rickshaws, which could have been an environmentally healthy mode of transport. It is surprising that the transport authorities are flaunting the new registrations but ignoring the fact that the load on the city’s roads is only increasing”
 
 He added, “A major factor for the rise in the number of cabs is that Pune has a lot of companies and most of the firms need cab service for their employees. The bus services have to be improved if the city’s roads need to be decongested.” 
 
 
