NEW DELHI: Prime Minister   said on Thursday that the fight against terror should not be seen as a war against Islam or Muslims but against a mindset that promotes extremism and hatred. 

 “Our democracy is a celebration of our age-old plurality. It gives us confidence about our future and a rich diversity of traditions gives us strength to fight extremism,” Modi said, addressing a conference on “Islamic Heritage: Promoting Understanding and Moderation”, which was attended by Jordan’s King  , who is on an official visit to India. 
 
 Modi stressed his mission is to take the entire country along as India’s prospects are linked to every citizen’s progress. Every belief professes humanitarian values, Modi said, adding that he envisages a future where Muslim youth are taught the humanitarian message of Islam along with modern scientific and technological developments. “Muslims must have the Quran in one hand and a computer in the other,” Modi said.
 
 Modi praised King Abdullah for his sustained efforts at fighting radicalisation and emphasised that those indulging in extremist acts cause more harm to the very religion they claim to represent. He stressed that India’s plurality and rich diversity gives it strength to fight terrorism and extremism. 
 
 King Abdullah II, who released the Urdu translation of “A Thinking Person’s Guide to Islam” by Prince  , echoed Modi’s message that war on terror needs to seen as fight between moderates and hatred than any religious war. He said it is the need of the hour to spread the message of peace which   preached.
 
 King Abdullah said an attack in the name of religion is an attack on religion. “We must identify and reject those spreading hate in the name of religion,” he said. The King of Jordon, a Hashemite who traces his descent from Prophet Mohammad, has been on the frontline in the fight against Islamic terrorism. He elaborated on Jordan’s effort in social integration and deradicalisation and asserted that young people cannot be left in isolation. “Our strongest defence against turmoil is inclusion,” he said. 
 
 “Too much of what is heard in news and what is seen about religion today is all about what separates people. Around the world suspicions are inflamed by what different groups don’t know about others. Such ideologies of hate distort the word of God to stir conflict,” said King Abdullah.
 
