Isidore Domnick Mendis Cortalim is not just a village that connects commuters to several places across Goa, but also has its fair share of historical stories and legends. Cortalim is called Kutta’le in Konkani and the origin of the word is etymologically derived from Khushastali (place where holy grass is grown for ritual sacrifice). The other school of thought associates Khushastali with Dwarka, the birthplace of Lord Krishna. Cortalim houses a population of 15,000 persons, of whom 9,000 are voters. Cortalim lies on the midpoint of the routes connecting Panaji and Margao and Vasco to the eastern parts of the state. While the village panchayat has 11 wards, Cortalim’s ‘vadde’ (vaddo: singular, meaning traditional village ward) include Zomboll, Chovoth, Bondir, Almabhat, Maddant, Novo Palmar, 1st Arvalle, 2nd Arvalle, Igorje Vaddo, Chaudi, Nauta, Consua, Sotrant, Vollant, Panzentar, Dumiabhatt, Gallio, Thana and Virabhat. “Cortalim is not only an ancient village in Goa, but also an important location from where commuters can reach several places,” says Amancio D’Souza, a local resident. Prior to the Portuguese arrival in Goa, the Mangueshi temple, dedicated to Lord Shiva, was located in the village. The idol was shifted to Priol in Ponda, where the famous temple now stands today. Cortalim village was part of Salcete during the Portuguese era. In 1543, it was the first village where Christianity was introduced and the first Holy Mass was celebrated on May 1, 1560, by Jesuit priest Fr Pedro Mascarenhas. Parish priest of St Philip and St James Church, Fr Diego Manuel Fernandes, says “The scenic historical village of Cortalim has also made giant strides in the field of higher education. St Joseph Vaz DEd college and St Joseph Vaz Arts Higher Secondary School play an important role in providing quality education to students.” Residents’ Speak Cortalim, among Goa’s ancient villages, is famed for its rich heritage. Its religious monuments, ancestral houses, water bodies, educational institutions and agricultural fields make it a versatile place. Its residents have also carved a niche for themselves in diverse fields. Anthony Miranda | ex-sarpanch and resident of Igorje Vaddo The fellowship among both Catholics and Hindus in the village is second to none. Both communities co-exist peacefully and celebrate each other’s religious festivities. Bandiantulo Khuris (the miraculous cross), in particular is revered by people of all faiths. Pratap Naik | ward member and resident of Nauta Vaddo Sarpanch’s take Almost 90% of segregated garbage is collected by the panchayat and soon the remaining trash will also be tackled.The new complex being constructed at Thana by Goa Industrial Development Corporation is going to be of immense importance for all residents as it will house everything under one roof; a panchayat office, market, bank, police outpost and post office. Senia Pereira RENOWNED RESIDENTS Late Nicolino Colaco: Regedor (village administrative head) of Cortalim during the Portuguese era and first sarpanch of the village after 1961. He was also a philanthropist and social worker Late Fr Loriano Fernandes: Philanthropist Late Biluarte Miranda: Professor in Portuguese Late Dr Ravindra Kamat: Renowned general physician Late Dr Rajaram Kuvelkar: General physician Late Caetano Sequeira: Columnist Late Minguel Rod, late Junior Rod, late Champion Peter, late Seby Coutinho, late Louis Rod and late Nicholas Xavier: Tiatrists Anthony Miranda: Tiatrist Amancio D’Souza: Tiatrist and winner of the state govt’s Kala Gaurav Purashkar 2017-18 in the field of music Alvaro Colaco: Helped in building the mini-museum of Christian art in the village Fr Joe Rodrigues sfx: Posted at provincialate, Padre Agnel Bhavan, Margao Nevis Coutinho: Social worker Heritage Trail/Landmarks Foodgrain godowns: During the Portuguese era, boats used to dock at this spot at Novo Palmar and unload foodgrain at the warehouses run by the Commercio Junta Externo (Board of External Trade). St Philip and St James Church: This parish church was constructed in 1566 and is one of the oldest churches in Goa. Chapel of Sacred Heart of Jesus: This place of worship is located at Manxer, where the first Mass in Salcete was celebrated on May 1, 1560. Our Lady of Perpetual Succour Primary School: The 50-year-old English medium co-educational institute caters to 178 children from Classes 1 to 5. It is housed in an ancestral house that was donated by a priest. Mangueshi Temple: The temple was built at Vollant around 10 years ago and is dedicated to Lord Shiva. St Joseph Vaz DEd College: Situated near the St Joseph Vaz Arts Higher Secondary School, this new temple of learning offers a three-year diploma course. Comunidade de Cortalim: Located at Chaudi, this structure is over 250 years old. The Cortalim comunidade has around 100 shareholders, besides its native gaunkars. Ancestral House of Colacos: Over 180 years old, this abode of the Colaco family today lies in a dilapidated state. Kolvontachem Tollem: It was once a lake in which women dancers from the original Mangueshi temple used to bathe in. it lies in ruins today. The village panchayat, in association with the state government, is keen on restoring the water body. Cruise Point: Set up in Novo Palmar around five years ago, a boat cruise takes one through the villages of Madkai and Quelossim villages every evening.