MUMBAI: If there was one team the  , returning to the IPL after a two-year ban for their owner’s alleged corrupt activities, would’ve wanted to play first up, it’s the  . 

 
 
 
 In a contest which should kick-off IPL-11 in perfect style, CSK resume their famed rivalry against the defending champions in the opening game of the league here at the Wankhede on Saturday night.
 
 Since the inception of the IPL, CSK vs MI has always been an anticipated clash. In the early years of the league, CSK, under the inspirational captaincy of  , dominated the scene, winning the tournament twice and reaching the final once even as MI were finding their feet. However, since Rohit Sharma’s elevation to captaincy in 2013, MI have won the title thrice, even as CSK endured a dip in fortunes on and off the field.
 
 Filled with big names on either side, both teams have fought tooth and nail for supremacy — of their 22 clashes, MI have won 12 games, while CSK have won 10. The last time they met was in the 2015 final, which MI won by 41 runs. 
 
 This time should be no different. Leading the charge for the Chennai brigade, so high on experience and age that it can be referred to as 'Dad’s army,’ will be former India skipper MS Dhoni, who, it was apparent, was hardly the same player when he played for Rising Pune Supergiant. 
 
 The game also marks Dhoni’s return to captaincy after one year. The 36-year-old had quit as India’s limited overs captain, before being removed by RPS.
 
 Though Faf du Plessis will miss the opener due to a finger injury, Dhoni has proven performers in Suresh Raina, Ravindra Jadeja, Shane Watson and Harbhajan Singh.
 
 It would be interesting to see Harbhajan lead CSK’s heavily-loaded spin artillery. Since the inception of the IPL, the former India spin veteran’s face was prominently displayed on the posters of MI stars which greeted you once you entered the Wankhede.
 
 Apart from Harbhajan and Jadeja, CSK have an embarrassment of spin riches in South African Imran Tahir and leggie Karn Sharma. New Zealand’s Mitchell Santner, though, is out with injury.
 
 MI have the arsenal to make CSK stumble. Like Chennai, they’ve retained their core in skipper  , allrounders Hardik and Krunal Pandya, Kieron Pollard, and pacer Jasprit Bumrah - the best death overs bowler in the world.
 
 It would be interesting to see if they play both their overseas left-arm seamers - Bangladesh’s Mustafizur Rahman and Kiwi Mitchell McClenaghan. Though they don’t have Lasith Malinga, their seam attack has been strengthened with the addition of Australia’s Pat Cummins.
 
 
