KOTTAYAM:B A sprawling 12,000 sq ft traditional home in Plachira village near Mallappally in Pathanamthitta has countless stories to tell. The building constructed by Abraham P   (49) on his ancestral property is unique as it was constructed using building materials sourced from 24 different old structures, some even centuries old. What's interesting is that not a single tree was felled for the house work. 

 These buildings include four government schools in Kottayam, three government hospitals in  , two churches, old building at Kottayam KSRTC bus stand, the railway goods shed building and the court building in Ettumanoor. Abraham directly bought 16 of these 24 buildings, while the rest he collected from scrap dealers and finished the project in 27 months along with a 60,000 litre rainwater harvest tank.
 
 Costford was roped in as a consultant with RD Padmakumar, a close associate of  , joining the project as the architect. A total of 26,000 laterite stones were used for the purpose. Another 250 truckloads of granite, 29 truck of lime powder and 35,000 tiles were used during construction; but no cement was used. Wooden cross beams, rafters, door and window frames, shutters and clay tiles left unused from old structures were used.
 
 "Initially, people thought I was crazy for using materials that were anything between 50 and 900 years. Now researchers, students and faculty want to replicate the idea and have come here to study the plan," he said, adding that the beam in his office room is 850 years old. One of the doors in the building is 300 years old and window frames are over 50. There is a wooden stair that is 900 years old. There is also a 400-year-old small window he secured from a dismantled heritage home in Thazhathangady."
 
 Kurien, who was working for an NGO in Delhi for 26 years, relocated to his hometown to look after his aged parents nearly four years ago. That's when the idea of an eco-friendly house came through. Kurien named it 'Oor' (home in local parlance) and the 14-room structure was finished just three months ago. "I realized that the elderly in this region need a support system as their children are living abroad. In 32 houses, there is only a single person at home. I wanted to develop a retirement home with an active community life," he said, adding that over 2,000 elderly couple were staying alone within a 4km radius of his house.
 
 At present, five of the rooms are occupied by aged couples. People come here for birthday celebrations, meetings, and family gatherings. "We also have guestrooms for families and a cafeteria," he added. Recently, Kurian started home delivery of food for aged couples. The rate for a couple wanting breakfast, lunch and dinner within a 2 km radius is Rs 260. For those within 2-4km, Rs 300 is charged.
 
 
