MUMBAI: Many SoBo residents were left fuming when they found three trees on the footpath outside a five-star hotel in   completely shorn of its green cover. 

 On approaching the municipal corporation, they were informed the contractor had ‘overtrimmed’ the trees. Churchgate resident   said he was at Cuffe Parade on Sunday when he noticed the trees without any leaves. He said he was taken aback because it looked like someone had tried to hack them. “The trees were left in such a pitiable condition with just the bark visible. I immediately informed the BMC office. Every tree matters and it was clear someone had tried to fiddle with them in an unscientific manner,” said Nagpal. 
 
  
  
 When TOI visited the spot on Monday, only the three trees were without green cover, while the rest on the same stretch wore a lush green look. The BMC ‘A’ ward authorities said they were looking into the issue. “We have already issued the contractor a notice for over trimming without any instructions from the civic body. We are also checking if the trees have been damaged in any way,” said  , assistant municipal commissioner ‘A’ ward. 
 
 However, some civic officials said the trees were in need of trimming. “There were fears they could fall and, therefore, heavy trimming was needed. The contractor was instructed to carry out the same,” said an official. Activists said every year, before monsoon, trees bore the brunt of the callousness of contractors. Activist Zoru Bathena said, “In the name of trimming, trees are almost completely shaved. 
 
 There are ways to scientifically trim a tree which clearly does not appear to have been followed here. If they continue with such practices, it could harm their health and growth.” It maybe recollected that in February last year, residents around the same area in Cuffe Parade had come out opposing the massive cutting of trees for the construction of   3 --the 33.5- km long fully underground line running between Colaba-   (Andheri) and proposed to have 27 stations.
