MUMBAI: The   on Friday identified seven major accident-prone or ‘black spots’ in the island city where it plans to undertake awareness programmes and precautionary measures to bring down accident fatalities. 

 This comes in the wake of the   which may be observed from next week. Sources said the RTOs in the suburbs are also drawing up their list of black spots—around 30 in the eastern and western suburbs.
 
 
  
  
 
 “We are serious about inculcating road discipline among drivers as human error is believed to be responsible for more than 70% of   in the city,” said a senior transport official. 
 
 The seven accident-prone spots identified in the island city are Badhwar Park junction near Machchimar Nagar, Cuffe Parade; JJ flyover in Pydhonie; Lala Lajpatrai Road south-bound carriageway in front of NSCI towards Tardeo; Haji Ali Junction; north-bound bridge near Sion hospital; Bengal Chemical junction near Siddhivinayak temple, Prabhadevi; and near Zarapkar market, below Tilak bridge and Ruparel college signal in Dadar, a RTO official said.
 
 Sources said the ‘black spots’ in the suburbs have been identified on the Eastern Express Highway and Western Express Highways; in Bandra and Malad in the western suburbs; and Vikhroli and Kurla in the eastern suburbs.
 
 “Teams comprising   and RTO officials will keep continuous vigil at these   to nab those flouting rules, not wearing helmets/seat belts, talking on phone while driving car or riding bike, lane cutting or overtaking from the wrong direction or for rash, negligent and drunk driving,” said a senior transport official.
 
 The RTO, along with traffic police, will also conduct a series of lectures at colleges and schools to tap young minds and sensitize them about road safety. “We have seen that youngsters influence the elders at home and make them aware about road discipline and safe driving,” said a deputy RTO. 
 
 On speed limit, joint commissioner of police (traffic) Amitesh Kumar said, “The speed limit is different for city roads (40-60 kmph) and highways and main roads (80 kmph). Also, motorists should always maintain safe distance to ensure safety of self and others.” 
 
 The Bloomberg Philanthropies Initiative for Global Road safety has been working with the Mumbai traffic department to reduce the number of deaths in road accidents in the city. Sources said they have been working on four parameters —engineering, enforcement, emergency services and education. 
 
 
