Ever since   made his debut as an actor in 1995, his quintessential Malayali traits have cast a spell on women audiences across ages. 

 With his career spanning more than two decades, the actor has proven his mettle by essaying an array of characters, be it as a Good Samaritan, the romantic hero, a villain or the naadan goofy guy. He has had his ups and downs, but the actor is still going strong and steady in terms of his performance. In a candid chat, Biju Menon tells us about his latest release Orayiram Kinakkalal, the path he had trodden and his journey as an actor.
 
 
 
 Pramod Mohan (its director) had narrated the story to me two and a half years ago. It is a family entertainer told in a humorous way and I felt that it will really click if a viewer doesn’t use too much logic. One needs to see it just as entertainment. We could have made the same film in a different way by making its second half a very serious one, but we decided to take the humorous route. In my opinion, to narrate a serious incident with a tinge of humour is sheer brilliance.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 My character Sreeram is an NRI. The foreign returnees I know usually prefer wearing mundu and shirt when they come down, so I asked Pramod if I should follow the same. But he insisted that I go for a formal look and it worked. I am receiving a lot of appreciation for the look and it has stood out from among the ones I have experimented with.
 
 
 
 I do a film with the intention that people should watch it. Also, it should not bring about losses to anyone involved in it — be it the producer or even the viewers. Only then will I be satisfied as an actor. I love doing serious films but now I select films that tell stories in a lighter vein, as I realised that people prefer fun films. All my films in the past one year have a comical touch.
 
 
 
 When a director narrates a story, what I see in my mind might be totally different from the director’s imagination. Rosapoo was very exciting as a story — a group of people making a movie and the funny incidents that follow. But when it was executed, it wasn’t as I expected. I am not blaming anyone as I committed to the film after listening to the script. So it is my mistake as well. However, as an actor, I have my limitations. Also, I prefer to be a director’s actor than intrude into other aspects of filmmaking.
 
 
 
 
 Even now, let me confess, being a lead actor is something I really do not like at all (theere thalparyamillatha meghalayanu). What I do in films now are those imposed on me, according to the demand. I would rather do a good character role which has a lot of scope as a performer. I keep asking people to give me good character roles but I get these in the end. (laughs)
 
 
 
 It ran well in theatres though it wasn’t a huge hit. It is a film that I personally loved doing. I can relate to Baiju very well and being a person who is nostalgic about the good old days and playgrounds, I enjoyed doing every scene. I am a father who wants my son to play outdoors, like how I grew up, not just bury himself in books. I prefer to tell my friends’ kids ‘kalicho?’ and also ‘odiyum chadiyum kalikkanam’ than ‘padicho?’. The kids now have no time to play.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 No. It is never about the star value. Viewers have different expectations and we need to cater to all kinds of audiences. Sometimes our judgments may go wrong. A movie works when everybody’s expectations are fulfilled.
 
 What I intend to do now are commercial films. I have always wanted to do good films but if I go after the kind of movies that I love to do, it will be painful if they don’t work in theatres, if people do not appreciate the effort we have taken. It will also be a loss for the makers. So I now opt for feel-good films that will attract the viewers and also fetch commercial success. 
 
 I feel that my involvement in each film is less due to back- to- back schedules and shoots, so I have decided to take it slow and concentrate more on each film.
 
 
 
 It’s not that I have a laidback attitude. It is just that I feel it isn’t right to do things just for the sake of promoting a film or to attract people to the theatres. I find it tough to do it that way. I’m an actor and I believe that if I have done my job well, it is more than enough. However, it doesn’t mean that I don’t promote my films. I just don’t think it is fair to praise myself and the team before the public after every film. If I do that over and over again, people will lose trust in me. If I have something to say, I will definitely say it. I don’t think this attitude of mine is affecting the success of my films.
 
 
 
 As an actor, over the years, I have always tried to give my best. I think I have given 75 percentage of my calibre while playing Sreeram and have tried to give justice to the character. I have never tried to do superhuman things, beyond what the character demands. I trust the director, follow the instructions and try to improvise. I believe that I am doing well. If not, the audience would have rejected me long back.
 
  The Malayalam industry too is flourishing and has also changed a lot with many newbie directors and new styles of filmmaking taking over. Cinema is changing with time – there are different genres from realism to fantasy. There are amazing talents popping up and everybody is working towards making good films.
 
 
 
 No, never. I may have sidelined myself, but nobody else has.
 
 
 
 All are happy and fine at home. Regarding Samyuktha, it is a question that everybody asks me. There are no plans as such. When a good movie and the right time comes, she will be definitely making an appearance on-screen. 
 
 
 
 It isn’t a serious movie at all. It is a complete entertainer which tells the incidents that happen during a road trip from Thiruvananthapuram to Kasaragod. I play a guy named Chengal Raghu and I have a totally different look. Though my character is a serious one, the movie is a humorous one.
 
 
 
 
 I have two movies coming up - Oru Vadakkan Selfie director Prajith’s next, written by Sajeev Pazhoor and a Lal Jose film.
 
