CHENNAI: A day after actor Rajinikanth called upon Chennai Super Kings (CSK) players and fans to wear black badges during Tuesday’s IPL match between CSK and KKR in the city, if the match itself cannot be cancelled, to draw the Centre’s attention to the   issue, the voice of support to ban the IPL matches altogether in Chennai have only grown louder.

 On Monday, a group of Tamil film directors came together under a new forum and charged that the IPL match has been scheduled in Chennai to draw the attention of the youth in the state away from the Cauvery issue. They seemed to be ignorant of the fact that the schedule for the IPL matches was drawn months ago and not last week. Tamilaga   leader   on Monday said he had asked his cadres to buy tickets and gain access into the stadium to create trouble and stall the IPL match.
 
 Rajinikanth himself seems to have forgotten that, despite the on-going strike by the Tamil Film Producers’ Council ( ) which has banned new film releases from March 1 in their fight against theatres and digital distribution companies, his latest film ‘Kaala’ was submitted to the Censor Board for certification last week and is kept in ready mode for release. There is no word from the producers on whether they would postpone its release until the Cauvery strife ends.
 
 “Even in the past, but for a symbolic one-day shutdown of theatres and film shootings, there were no instances when the Tamil film industry joined the people of the state over a long duration for any public cause and remained shut, stopped shooting and cancelled release of new films,” recalls an industry veteran, who did not want to be named.
 
 Why is sport, especially cricket, targeted? “We are not against cricket. But, boycotting or cancelling IPL will help draw the attention of the nation to the Cauvery issue,” a spokesman for the newly launched forum Tamizhar Kalai Ilakkiya Panpaatu Peravai said.
 
 “This is a short-sighted approach by segments of people to grab larger public attention, as everyone in Tamil Nadu is now vying for a share of the larger political spectrum. IPL or cricket does not have anything to do with finding a solution to the Cauvery problem, which is a larger issue for the Centre and the states to handle,” says Madras School of Economics Prof K S  .
 
 “None of these politicians and those from the film industry were bothered when farmers from Tamil Nadu were protesting in New Delhi for weeks. This is opportunistic at the societal level. While politicians are always opportunistic, the fact that many more sections of people are becoming opportunistic is sad,” added Kumar.
 
 On the other hand, Prof Ajay Gudavarthy from the Centre for Political Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University feels this is more a “symbolism” than “opposing sport”. “In a diverse country like India, it becomes very difficult to communicate in one voice across segments. Symbolism has helped in India since anti-colonial times. In a society like ours with scarcity, such events - be it a Bollywood show or IPL - are seen as elite. Here IPL is seen as something driven by corporates on one side, while the masses suffer due to Cauvery crisis,” Gudavarthy says.
 
 
