KOLKATA:  , an architecture style that took the world by storm in the early 1920s, is making a comeback in Kolkata with Mumbai-based architect Hafeez Contractor proposing the style in a project on 59 Ballygunge Circular Road.

 The development comes at a time when a movement on saving Kolkata’s Art Deco buildings is gaining steam with a citizen’s group — Calcutta Architectural Legacies — trying to raise awareness on how important these buildings are to maintain the city’s distinct architectural fabric. In 1920s, the style became a rage in Kolkata and Mumbai, alongside Paris, New York, Havana and Miami with architects adopting the philosophy with zeal before it went out of fashion in the 1960s.
 
 
  
 
 Contractor opted for Art Deco that in its time combined modernist styles with fine craftsmanship and rich materials, and represented glamour and exuberance progress for the 14-storied building adjoining the heritage   to subtly contrast yet complement the Indo-Saracenic architecture.
 
 The proposed project, Nexome Tripura, sits on the grounds of Tripura House, the residence of the royal family of the erstwhile princely state. Initially set on a sprawling 5.5-bigha plot opposite Dover Street, a residential complex named Tripura Enclave had been developed on 1.5 bighas to the east of the palatial house around two decades ago. Now, work is underway on an upscale project on 30 cottahs on the western edge of the plot.
 
 The two-storied Tripura House with a large central dome and four smaller domes in four corners is an amalgam of various architecture styles, including Indo-Saracenic, Hindu and Islamic. There are also prominent elements of Art Deco, especially in the design of bunting bars in windows.
 
 Initially, Contractor had proposed a building with domes in keeping with the architecture of Tripura House but following advice from Kolkata Municipal Corporation’s   that the new building’s design should be stylistically different from the heritage Tripura House and not appear a copy, Contractor settled on an Art Deco building that subtly contrasts with the Tripura House and complements it as well.
 
 “A glass facade may have sufficed but we didn’t wish to add to the city’s growing stock of non-descript steel and glass buildings. Hence, the decision to go in for a classic architecture style that is vintage yet timeless,” said   of Nexome Properties.
 
 Contractor’s associates, architects   and Ali Hyder who spent days fine-tuning the building’s exterior, say it is one of the most intricately designed piece of Art Deco architecture to be attempted in Kolkata in over half a century. “We created new Art Deco elements with a lot of vertical lines that contrasts with the low horizontal lines of Tripura House. Like the Chrysler Building in New York where the vertical lines converge into a top spire, we have taken vertical circulation of the staircase and elevator blocks and terminated them into an interesting top feature that gives the building a quintessential Art Deco look,” explained Parikh.
 
 The handrails and top grilles in the balconies have Art Deco motifs. Even on the ground level, all elements have an Art Deco touch to it. “We will control the design right from the plinth level to the top so that it looks like a true blue Art Deco building and not one on which elements have been superimposed,” said Hyder.
 
 Test piles are currently underway in the 90,000-sq ft project that will house 24 apartments, two flats to a floor with one floor dedicated for amenities like health club, children’s play area, library and community hall.   will begin this month with a three-year timeline for its completion.
 
 
