PUNE: A state-backed set-up, run as a joint venture between Kolkata-based miniratna public sector undertaking   and  , an arm of automaker   and Mahindra, has begun “trial runs” to dismantle old end-of-life vehicles, industrial waste and old abandoned vehicles.

 “The set-up in   is doing trial runs. In the first phase, there will be collection and dismantling of vehicles,” said B B Singh, the chairman and managing director, MSTC. 
  
 
 The second phase will involve setting up the India’s first organized auto shredding plant in Kandla, Gujarat, where steel and iron will be broken down and recycled again into units for sale. This is expected to go on steam early next year.
 
 Be that as it may, all stakeholders, including the  , await a policy that looks at scrapping of end-of-life vehicles. It is expected to get the cabinet nod in a month.
 
 Even as this policy is in the works, as things stand, there is no policy to scrap and shred old abandoned vehicles. These not only occupy precious public space but also pose serious health hazards and security risks.
 
 “We will work with the police to get abandoned vehicles too,” Singh said.
 
 The phase I of the unit in Noida is not getting enough vehicles as there is no policy either around scrapping of abandoned vehicles or end-of-life vehicles. So, the unit also dismantles industrial waste for now.
 
 Result: Seized abandoned vehicles continue to gather dust at police stations and on dumping grounds.
 
 “The seized vehicles in police stations hardly have any value compared to when they were seized. There has to be a change in law… without adequate support, it is not going to work,” said Sanjay  , president, Metal Recycling Association of India.
 
 He said with proper policy, such vehicles could easily end up commanding double the price.
 
 “An 8-tonne truck yields about Rs1 to 1.5 lakh when it goes for scrapping currently. After the policy, it can easily yield up to Rs3 lakh,” Mehta said.
 
 He said scientific recycling of waste could mean that these could be used for other applications.
 
 For now, the country has to contend with the unorganized market where the scrapping is done to salvage some parts and bulk of it is disposed of in landfills.
 
 The government is thinking of mandatory scrapping of only commercial vehicles which are 20 years or older. Experts believe that a policy that leaves out cars and two-wheelers will not “sufficiently” serve the purpose of environment or generate big employment.
 
 
