NEW DELHI: From burnishing its pro-poor credentials to appeasing the restive, sprawling rural constituency and speeding up job creation, the   seeks to achieve crucial objectives for PM   and his party in the run-up to the 2019 polls.

 For several years, the government considered bringing back the longterm capital gains tax on equities but dropped the idea because of the fear of a stock slump. On Thursday, the government bit the bullet and seems poised to reap benefits for summoning the courage to stop incentivising a tiny section. 
 
 The calculation is that the levy on capital gains on equity will, in part, provide the funds needed for ‘Modicare’, supposed to be the world’s largest public-funded health insurance scheme, an audacious initiative which should bury the political insinuation that Modi’s was a “suit-boot ki sarkar”.
 
 The charge had looked an exaggeration after the government managed to sell demonetisation as a wealth redistribution scheme, a tool which robbed the corrupt rich to pay the honest poor.
 
 The sheer optics of a Budget — which blends the imposition of capital gains tax with ambitious schemes of health insurance for the poor and paying farmers 50% over the cost of production along with benefits for women and senior citizens — should blunt whatever punch, if any, the “Ambani-Adani taunt” would have still packed.
 
 If the setback among   farmers warned government of rural unrest due to stagnation in agriculture, the Budget shows that the   leadership did not waste time imbibing the message. 
 
 The plan to cushion producers and consumers of perishable crops like potatoes, onions and tomatoes against the vagaries of production should help deal with grouses that took away from the government’s success in checking runaway inflation under the   and dulled the appeal of its welfare moves. 
 
 Expansion of   cover to 24 crops covering 90% of arable land, extension of credit facility to animal husbandry and dairy farming and the plan to extend the benefit to share-croppers and lessees should calm a countryside that’s displayed its annoyance with BJP yet again by going with   in the Rajasthan bypolls.
 
 The measures will amplify the message that   has sought to put across by providing free cooking gas connections to the poor, reaching electricity to thousands of unlit villages and constructing subsidised houses for the rural populace at a fast pace. 
 
 Micro, small and medium enterprises have been celebrated as the new potential engine of growth, with benefits proposed to compensate them for the hit they took post-demonetisation and in the wake of GST rollout.
 
 Concern for job-creation that fits the conventional description was reflected in FM’s incentives for labourintensive sectors of leather and textiles and the nudge to employers to formalise jobs. 
 
 Sullenness among youth — another constituency, which like farmers, turned out in huge numbers for Modi in 2014 — has emerged as a major worry. The government expects jobs to emerge from the thrust on infrastructure as well.
 
 Absence of tax relief for the middle class may not necessarily reflect a shift of affection away from Modi. It is sure to upset vocal categories, with the surprise decision to announce fixing salaries of MPs fuelling angst.
 
 But what looks like an ommision in a perfectly political budget may perhaps also be an indication that it may not be this government’s last one before it faces the popular test.
 
