KOCHI: The Ernakulam CJM court on Monday issued witness summons to two bishops and three priests in connection with a land deal controversy which erupted in the Syro-Malabar Church recently. Accepting a petition filed by advocate  , the court issued the summons to auxiliary bishops   and Jose Puthenveettil and diocesan priests Fr Kuriakose Mundadan, Fr Augustine Vattoly and Fr   to appear before it on January 31.

 The complaint is that   suffered a loss of Rs 20 crore in the sale of its property in Ernakulam district and Syro-Malabar Church head and major archbishop cardinal George Alencherry and two priests -- Fr Joshy Puthuva and Fr Sebastian Vadakkumpadan -- are responsible for the loss. 
 
 "I had lodged complaints with the Ernakulam range IG and Ernakulam circle-inspector two weeks ago. But, the police are yet to take any action," said Puthuppara.
 
 Fr Mundadan, who is also the secretary of the Presbyterian Council, a body of priests, said that he had not got the summons so far. "But I heard about the development. None of the priests to whom the court issued notice are respondents in the case. The priests should give their statement as witness," Fr Mundadan said.
 
 Meanwhile, cardinal Alencherry is learnt to have convened an urgent meeting of Presbyterian Council on Tuesday. The Synod of the Syro-Malabar Church, which was held a few days ago in Kochi, had recommended the cardinal to convene the meetings of various church fora like the Presbyterian Council and Consulters' Council, an advisory body of the Church. 
 
 The Consulters' Council which consists of 12 priests met last week and discussed the issue. Though a meeting of Presbyterian Council was scheduled two weeks ago, it didn't occur as a section of laity reportedly disrupted the proceedings.
 
 Church sources said that the much-awaited Presbyterian Council meeting of the Ernakulam-Angmali archdiocese is expected to witness some heated discussions.
 
 Cardinal Alancherry, auxiliary bishops   and Puthenveetil, and Fr Mundadan will be among those attending the council. It is expect that the inquiry commission report and Synod report on the land deal will be discussed at the meeting. "The priests belonging to the Ernakulam-Angamali archdiocese want the Presbyterian Council to discuss all matters related to the deal and take strict action. But the present actions by the cardinal show that the Church authorities won't take any action," said a senior priest of the archdiocese.
 
 "Earlier we expected the   to take strict action. But the Synod did not. Now the priests' council wants the Vatican to intervene. We have got information that the Vatican has studied the issue. We want the Synod commission report to be published as a public document," said the priest.
 
 The controversial land deal in the archdiocese took place in 2016. The Church had then authorized cardinal Alencherry and two priests to sell off five plots of land owned by it in and around Kochi city to pay bank a loan. Later, there arose suspicion that the Church suffered huge loss as the land parcels were sold at prices much lesser than the market value. Then, an inquiry committee was constituted and it found irregularities in the deals. A committee appointed by the Church Synod had blamed the cardinal and the two priests for lack of vigilance while selling the land.
 
 (With inputs from Idukki bureau)
 
 
