JAIPUR: In a massive drive to recover the urban development (UD) tax from the defaulters, the revenue wing of   (JMC) on Monday sealed 65 shops in   and many other commercial establishments.

 A revenue wing official informed, the drive was carried out after defaulters did not deposit the UD tax despite issuing notices.
 
 “The JMC has to recover dues of approximately Rs 1 crore from shop owners in Ganpati Plaza. Action was taken after shop owners not deposit dues even after organising several camps and issuing notices.” said a JMC official .
 
 The JMC would continue its drive on Tuesday as there are 92 shop owners who have not paid the UD tax. “Seal of nearly 30 shops were opened after they deposited the amount. The JMC recovered Rs 32 lakh on Monday,” added an official. The team also recovered approximately Rs 9 lakh after sealing more than two dozens properties in   and  .
 
 In a separate drive, the JMC’s fire wing also issued a notice to close down a rooftop restaurant which was illegally operational in a prominent hotel situated at JLN Marg. Official claimed, the rooftop restaurant is operational at 9th floor and there is no availability of adequate firefighting system.
 
 “We have asked the owners to develop firefighting system within days. The JMC will take action if owner does not comply with the notices.”
 
 In a bid to prevent fire accidents, the local self-government department had earlier directed municipal corporations and councils to start a drive and inspect every rooftop restaurant across the state. Those flouting norms on fire safety, parking and other civic rules would be penalized under the Rajasthan Nagar Palika Act 2009.
 
 The city has many reputed properties which doesn't have a fire exit or parking space. “Those who cannot comply with the rules will face closure. We would continue our drive,” said a JMC official.
 
 The department has found several rooftop restaurants running without permission in both residential and commercial areas.
 
 “These illegal places neither have proper fire safety mechanisms nor parking and are vulnerable to accidents. It has also come to the notice that they play loud music till late in the night causing inconvenience to people. They indiscriminately use gas cylinders which can cause incidents like in Mumbai,” informed the official.
 
