Chandigarh: The lackadaisical attitude in repairing of the   dug in Sector 44 and 46 for the installation of gas pipeline by the contractor to whom the work was allocated has annoyed the residents who are facing inconvenience in their day to day activities.

 During a visit to the sectors, it was found that the pits which were dug for the installation of the gas pipelines have not been repaired. At some spots, the paver blocks were lying loose and even broken.
 
 Narinder Pandey, a resident of Sector 44, said the work of gas pipelines was completed in the mid of March. “We were hoping that the staff will repair the road dug up during the work, but nothing of that sort happened. Now that it is raining, the commuters are facing severe problems. The pits are proving to be dangerous as many are not aware of their exact locations. Invisible under muddy water, the pits make the situation tricky for the pedestrians,” he said.
 
 Rashpal Singh, a resident of Sector 44, said every month a contractor turn up in the area and started digging up the road. “We are clueless whether they even have any permission or not. Earlier, a telecom company dug pits and did not repair them properly. Now, workers came to install the gas pipelines and did the same,” he said.
 
 Similar is the situation in Sector 46 where work has been completed, but the pits are yet to be filled properly. Taranjeet Singh, a resident of Sector 46, said for the gas pipelines, the work was initiated by the authorities and the residents were hopeful that the contractor will repair the pits outside the houses once they were done with their work. “However, the work is done and they are still waiting for the repair,” he added.
 
 In the dock
 
 I have received a complaint from the residents of my ward. I will take up the issue with the authorities and the repair work done for the convenience of the residents
 
 Ravinder Kaur | Area councillor 
 
 Photo quotes
 
 I have to spend from my own pocket to get three pits outside my house repaired for the safety of my family
 
 Trishala Prasher | Resident of Sector 44
 
 Mud from the pits had blocked the sewer line during the recent rain
 
 Bhupinder Kaur | Resident of Sector 44
 
 Parking has become a major issue after these pits are dug outside our houses
 
 Amrit Lal | Resident of Sector 44
 
 
