JAIPUR: Rajasthan has issued Unique Disability ID (UDID) cards to 51.86% of its ‘Divyang’ population. This is highest in the country. Next to Rajasthan is MP, which has issued cards to 35.83% of its   population as on May 3, 2018.

 
 The UDID card is a single document of identification for the specially abled, meant to store data of of their disability, health record, financial status and links to welfare schemes. This card is equivalent to the Aadhaar card. It’s required to avail benefits under the central government schemes in the field of education, health, financial schemes, direct transfers of scholarship, employment, and marriage allowance in the bank accounts of  .
 
 
 
 
 The data is sent to the ministry of social justice which keeps track of people falling under this category. Once the data is uploaded, the disabilities directorate of all states has the duty to provide all required assistance even if they (beneficiaries) don’t ask for it. The state has generated 2,33,191 UDID digital cards to Divyangs having six types of disabilities since October 2017. The total number of disability certificates issued is 4,49,618 in the state and the department is hoping to make it 100% -cards in the next six months. In fact, the number of UDID cards issued in Jaipur (30,826) is the highest among 24 states.
 
 “The department for the first time has real time information on specially abled population of our state. This database will help in creating tailor-made schemes and allocating budget in accordance with the disability. It also contains information relating to the type and percentage of disability to connect beneficiaries with health schemes. The state has achieved this feat in less than six months. It took Madhya Pradesh five years to achieve this landmark,” said Arun  , minister for social justice and empowerment. The minister has appealed to the families and members of civil society to reach out to the beneficiaries of this scheme. “It is important that every beneficiary should be connected with the e-card,” said Chaturvedi.
 
 The Census report says that the state has a population of 2.65 lakh specially abled persons. The figure could be several times higher as families don’t acknowledge the Divyangs in their families. Highlighting the importance of the UDID card, the director of social welfare and empowerment department   said, “The UDID card passes through several verification steps. It begins with the online filing of the application form, physical verification and finally is passed by the medical board to certify the disability.”
 
 
