GURUGRAM: Residents of New Gurugram reeled from   on Thursday as the Chandu Budhera water treatment plant halted operations for about six hours because of repairs. Supply was restored by evening.

 According to residents, sectors 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50 and 56 didn’t have water supply at all for over 12 hours, while those residing on   and Golf Course (extension) Road didn’t receive the usual quantity of water. 
 
 “The weather is so hot, so it becomes a big problem if water supply is halted even once a day. I couldn’t attend office on Thursday as I was struggling to arrange water since the morning,” said Sangeeta Kalia, a resident of Sector 47. 
 
 Residents also said they were overcharged by water tanker suppliers. “While a water tanker is available for Rs 700 on normal days, we had to pay Rs 1,000 on Thursday. Whenever there is an announcement by the authorities that water supply will be hit, the tanker suppliers raise the rates,” said  , a resident of Sector 56.
 
 The shortage on Thursday also raised the issue of the lack of water   in Huda sectors. While housing societies built by private developers usually have a water storage facility, sectors developed by the civic authority are generally supplied water twice a day and have no water storage options. However, the city’s two water treatment plants have storage tanks to store treated water for future use. On Thursday, the tanks at Chandu Budhera plant couldn’t be used as work was also being done on them.
 
 “It is shocking that the authorities have no storage facility in residential areas. As the population of Gurugram is going up every year, the authorities should have a big storage capacity within each sector,” said Rupali Thakran, a resident of Sector 45.
 
 On Wednesday, the district administration had advised people to use water judiciously as the Chandu Budhera water treatment plant wouldn’t be operational for a few hours due to upgradation work. A   official told TOI, “The plant was shut for some upgradation work for only about five to six hours. Water supply was restored to all areas by evening.”
 
  Gurugram is dependent on two water treatment plants —   and Chandu Budhera. While water is supplied to most parts of old Gurugram, DLF and Sushant Lok 1 from the Basai plant, sectors in new Gurugram, including those on Sohna Road and Golf Course Road, get water from Chandu Budhera plant.
 
 
