BATHINDA: Taking serious note of an act in which a former Dera Sacha Sauda follower and his sister-in-law tried to take out a ‘bir’ (holy book) from a gurdwara of Bhunder village in Muktsar district on April 22 evening without informing the gurdwara committee, members of Sikh organisations on Tuesday held a protest outside Kotbhai police station. They demanded adding of stringent sections in the case and the name of dera head Gurmeet Ram Rahim in the case.

 Former dera follower Charan Dass and his sister-in-law Sapna Rani tried to take the ‘bir’ to their home to take a pledge over it in some family dispute. Their attempt was thwarted by the granthi after they were spotted on a   camera doing so. The granthi stopped them. Both were   and a case under Sections 295 (injuring of defiling place of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class) and 34 (act done by several persons) was registered.
 
 On Tuesday, after Sikh bodies held a protest, the police added Section 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings of any class), 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups of religion, race), 452 (house trespass) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC in the FIR. Meanwhile, SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal has formed a four-member committee to investigate the matter.
 
 Certain Sikh bodies have compared the incident to the theft of a ‘bir’at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village in Faridkot district on June 1, 2015, which was still untraceable.
 
 Meanwhile, Sarbat Khalsa-appointed ‘jathedar’ Baljit Singh Daduwal, activists of Ek Noor Khalsa Fauj, Sri Guru Granth Sahib Satkar Committee and Shiromani Akali Dal (1920) sat on a protest. Daduwal said that, “It has been proved that a former dera follower tried to take the holy book from the gurdwara. Had the granthi not seen them, it would have become untracable. If anyone has to take pledge over the holy book, there is no need to take it home. Such persons could go to the gurdwara and inform the granthi. Sikh bodies will hold ardas (prayer) on April 30, where the next course of action will be decided.”
 
 Gidderbaha DSP Rajpal Singh said that Charan Dass had confessed that he was a dera follower in the past. He said as per demand of the protesters some sections had been added in the FIR and the matter would be investigated thoroughly. “If any other person is found involved, action will be taken against them as well,” the DSP added.
 
 
