MUMBAI: With her brazen comments in defence of the “casting couch” syndrome in Bollywood, veteran choreographer Saroj   sparked outrage on social media, and unwittingly blew the lid off sexual exploitation in the film industry.

 
 She made the remark in Sangli on Monday in reference to the stir that Telugu actor   caused recently when she sat semi-naked on a road in Hyderabad to protest against the prevalence of the casting couch in the film industry.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Khan said that the casting couch was something that has been in existence for ages; it was nothing new. “Someone or the other tries to paw every girl. Even the government does it. Why are you after the film industry? At least it gives you food. It doesn’t rape and then abandon you,” she added. Khan said the onus was on the woman to choose her actions.
 
 Yeh toh chala aa raha hai Baba Adam ke zamaane se.   se thodi? Har ladki ke upar koi na koi haath saaf karne ki koshish karta hai. Government ke log bhi karte hain,” Khan said. She then went on to defend the film industry saying it at least provided a livelihood, and that girls were not just raped and dumped. “Tum film industry ke peeche kyun pade ho? Woh roti toh deti hai. Rape karke chhor toh nahi deti.”
 
 Khan then went on to add that a woman chooses her actions. “Yeh ladki ke upar hai ki tum kya karna chahti ho. Tum uske haath mein nahi aana chahti ho toh nahi aaoge. Tumhare paas art hai toh tum kyun apne aap ko bechoge? Film industry ka naam mat lena, woh humaara mai-baap hai. (It’s up to the woman to decide what she wants to do. If you don’t want to give in you won’t. If you have the talent, why would you sell yourself ? Don’t defame the film industry, it is our provider),” said the 69-year-old.
 
 In the line of fire after clips of Khan’s speech began to be telecast, she did apologize to the media but refused to offer a clarification. “I’m sorry, I apologise,” is all she was willing to say.
 
 After Khan came Congress leader Renuka Chowdhury’s shocker. The senior politician admitted that the Parliament was not immune to this unpleasant reality either when asked to respond to the choreographer’s justification for the casting couch offering work in exchange of sexual favours.
 
 “It’s the bitter truth. It’s not just in film industry. With women this happens everywhere. Don’t imagine that parliament is immune or some other work space is immune to it. If you look at the western world, established top actresses have taken this long to come out and say ‘me too’. It’s time India stood up and said ‘me too’,” urged  .
 
 Speaking to the press at her residence later in the day, Chowdhury elaborated on her comments. She said, “Casting couch means privileges of women are taken away and used for personal benefit or in lieu of other compensations.”
 
 According to agencies, referring to the incident in   where Prime Minister Narendra Modi had commented on her laughter in the House, Chowdhury said, “Narendra Modi had snatched my dignity when he said I remind him of Surpanakha. Okay, I am Surpanakha and I do not want to become Sita,” she said. Chowdhury also accused   minister Kiren Rijiju of circulating videos targeting her over her laughter in Rajya Sabha.
 
 Chowdhury appeared to contradict herself later by saying the casting couch menace was less prevalent in politics than in other areas. Pitching for a “you too” movement, Chowdhury said, “There must be a ‘you too’ campaign so that any woman can say, ‘I am naming you because you are responsible and you too are an offender’.”
 
 Meanwhile, Bollywood stars alternated between denials and justifications over Khan’s remarks even as people on social media took sharp digs at Khan and at them. Actor Richa Chadda argued that people were making “a mountain out of a molehill” and later took to Twitter to say: “Look at a narrative being spun about the film Indt being an amoral, vacuous, intoxicated place. The film indt if anything is a microcosm of society. I believe   is being misrepresented, no one, especially no woman in their right mind could defend that.” Actor Ranbir Kapoor deadpanned: “I’ve never faced it,” when quizzed at different media gatherings on Tuesday.
 
 But not all were forgiving. Actor   maintained: “Though Saroj Khan has apologised, what she said was atrocious! No woman or man should be raped and/ or exploited or extorted so that she/he gets a livelihood! Nobody should have to face any pressure to “compromise” from people in power, whether in Bollywood or anywhere else!”
 
