COIMBATORE: Several industrialists, trade bodies and NGOs came together here on Saturday to form  , a forum that will study, suggest and demand infrastructural projects for the city.

 They decided to launch the forum after several people pointed out the plight of the Gandhipuram Flyover, chairman and managing director of Codissia Industrial Parks Limited AV Varadharajan told TOI. “Even after spending crores of rupees, the flyover not just has a flawed design, but is underutilised. It prompted us to become active participants in the development of the city. The city is on the cusp of development with the announcement of various infrastructure projects such as Avinashi Road Flyover, Ukkadam Flyover, metro rail project and western and eastern bypass roads. We will form an expert committee that will acquire the designs from the government, study them and propose suggestions,” he said.
 
 President of the local chapter of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industries   said industrialists and trade bodies had remained silent for several years. “Now, we will push for change. We will engage public opinion and be active members in the development of the city. More than 30 associations in the city have come forward to join the council,” she said.
 
 The council plans to study the Avinashi flyover project, Ukkadam flyover project, metro rail project and the Eastern Bypass Road project next month, said president of the Residential Awareness Association of Coimbatore (Raac) CR  . “The Association of Architects and various urban planners in the city are part of the council. We will ensure that every design aspect is discussed with us and approved by us. The council will act as a proactive body that will lobby for flawless design and development of the city. We will work towards providing alternate solutions and plans for the projects,” he said.
 
 As almost all the flyovers proposed in the city are not connected, they will not be of much help, Vanitha Mohan said. “We want the future projects to be citizen-centric and try our best to ensure the government listens to the objections and suggestions. If required, we will even protest,” she added.
 
 
