India frittered away an excellent chance to wrap up the T20I series against South Africa on Wednesday, letting   and Co. run away with the game despite posing a challenging total of 188/4.

 
 
 It’s quite possible that the team management, after the loss, would have looked at the decision to play   at Centurion while rain was around the corner as a serious lapse in judgment. As it turned out, it proved to be a poor choice, one of the key reasons why India lost.
 
 It had rained for most part of the day in Centurion on Wednesday, leading to the abandonment of the India-SA women’s T20I midway through the game earlier in the day. More rain was predicted for the evening, and as it transpired, a sizable period of the game was played under a fine drizzle.
 
 
 
 Just a few days back, in the fourth ODI at the Wanderers in what was another rain-hit tie, Chahal had been taken to the cleaners by Klaasen. Then too, India had to bowl second after a rain interruption and Chahal and  , the two spinners who had tied the Proteas up in knots in the ODI series till then, became completely ineffective. Chahal was brutally dealt with and returned figures of 5.3-0-68-1 as the hosts managed their solitary success in the ODI series.
 
 All bowlers face problems while bowling with a wet ball, but more so wrist spinners. Their control goes awry and the ball doesn’t grip the surface, which negates their spin.
 
 
  
 
 Thus, playing Chahal was a risky move. The team could have played left-arm spinner   who has an impressive limited-overs record and who would have presented a different challenge to the South Africans, chiefly Klaasen. Being a finger spinner, Patel would have controlled the ball better in wet conditions and even fired in yorker-length quicker ones on the pads to control the run deluge. It’s highly unlikely that Patel would have conceded as many as 64 in four overs which Chahal did.
 
 Also, India probably erred by giving Chahal his full quota of overs and not trying someone like part-timer Suresh Raina, who has bowled quite a number of overs in limited-overs cricket. The move might not have worked but it was worth a try.
 
