 has started taking ideas from implementation of   Infocomm’s telecom infrastructure to other global markets. The networking and technology major said its network implementation work for the Indian company was one of the biggest “greenfield” projects and that customers from other markets recently visited India to see it. “Not everyone has the opportunity to build a greenfield network,”  , chief executive, Cisco, told ET in an interview.

 
  “It created a platform that allows us to take a lot of the thinking we did with them and insert it into different pieces of other customers’ work. We have had a few customers here during the last couple of months. They came from America, Europe and all around the world.” He added that the type of digital transformation work done in India in the recent past was not new, but the sheer scale was unprecedented.
  
  Robbins, who met with Union IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and people from   on Thursday, during his three-day India visit, said even though the   in India has been good, things might not be as “black and white,” given the size of the country. “I cannot imagine the scale...
  
  A country trying to deal with complexities of all the different dynamics is never black and white. You (are) dealing with political, social and economic dynamics and you have to put them together and actually find the right solution.” Robbins said India continues to be Cisco’s second-largest global headquarters and the company was contemplating taking solutions developed in India to Africa, parts of Asia and Latin America.
  
  “Every time I come here, I see new opportunities here. In the last 72 hours, we really talked about how to build solutions that have a speed to implement... that will not only be solutions for us to develop and deliver here in India, but also scale (and) move into Africa, and other parts of Asia. We are going to begin to really think about that strategy,” said Robbins.
  
  He added that India centres have had “the broadest diverse mix of different functions representation” compared with other locations. Cisco Networking Academy, the company’s communication technology skilling programme, has added training on internet of things and entrepreneurship, apart from the traditional courses and a committment to educate 2.5 lakh people in India by 2020.
  
  
