Chennai:   knows how to play through pain, but this is going to be different.

 One could see on Sunday in Mohali that the 36-year-old   captain was struggling with his back and had it not been the stage that the   is now, Dhoni would surely have looked for a break to get himself fully fit. But it might not be possible for the skipper to take that much-needed break in the next game itself against Rajasthan Royals in Pune on Friday.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CSK have been forced to change their home from Chepauk to the MCA Stadium in Pune following protests over Cauvery issue by political parties and fringe groups, and now the team has to get accustomed to a new venue. If that was not enough, they already have two of their star middle-order players Kedar Jadhav and Suresh Raina out. While Jadhav is out of the tournament, Raina, struggling with a calf injury, is set to miss the game against Rajasthan as well.
 
 
 
 In a situation like this, Dhoni’s presence in the middle-order becomes even more crucial. It showed on Sunday as well when CSK tried to chase down 197 against Kings XI Punjab. Had it not been for Dhoni’s experience and his ability to handle death overs, CSK would most probably have lost by a bigger margin that the four runs that they did ultimately.
 
 But it took a toll on Dhoni’s back as CSK physios kept running in and out trying to keep the man in motion. The skipper, though, gave hope to the CSK fans when he said that he believes it’s not a very serious injury. “It shouldn’t be too bad because I know what happened. And when you know the extent of your injury, you know how bad it really is,” he said.
 
 The other thing in favour of Dhoni is the power he generates from his arms. Even on Sunday, when he was uncomfortable running, MSD kept clearing the fence en route to his 44-ball 79 and it was all from his arms and wrists. Dhoni, too, mentioned that in the post match press conference saying: “The back is pretty bad but God has given me lot of power and I don’t need to use my back a lot. My arms can do the job.”
 
 But if not for batting, the back comes into play when he is keeping. But Dhoni has an option there with England keeper-batsman Sam Billings in the lineup. In a worst case scenario, the skipper can always opt to use Billings as the keeper and he can himself be in the outfield. That was something that Dhoni used to do in the first edition of IPL when he allowed Parthiv Patel to keep. But with time, he has always chosen to keep, even when his back has not been in the best of shape. But these are difficult times for CSK and Dhoni has to take a decision on how to preserve his back taking everything into consideration.
 
 
