NAGPUR: With an objective to empower youngsters and motivate them to step out and follow their dreams, YOUth organized ‘Youth Talks’ at Persistent Systems Auditorium on Saturday. The event witnessed amalgamation of incredible ideas from young achievers of the city.

 YOUth is an organization working to empower and enlighten youngsters to make a mark in their respective field. It provides a platform to the youths to share their remarkable stories, ideas, experiences and talent. ‘Youth Talks’ is India’s foremost platform that develops speech, leadership, emotional intelligence and career skills for today’s youth. 
 
 The organization has been founded by filmmaker of national repute Ketki Pandit Mehta and Abhay Kimmatkar. 
 
 Speakers in this one-of-its kind event were  , CPO, Persistent Systems; Shashikant Chaudhary, co-founder, Nagpur Angels;  , founder and CEO of India Network; Divya, a RJ at Radio Mirchi; Dr Jerryl Banait, nature and wildlife conservationist; former flight lieutenant  , trustee of Prahar; Nakul Agrawal, founder of NGO Renovatio;  , public speaker and entrepreneur; Siddharth Roy, writer; Meher Walia, actor; Shreya Jain, singer, and Vivart and Sanket, founders of CO Creato. 
 
 Mehta spoke about the story behind creation of YOUth and said that extremely talented youths of India lack platform to showcase their mettle. Thereafter, the speakers took up the podium one after the other and narrated their journey and motto. 
 
 The event was a blend of phenomenal ideas through the methodologies of story telling and presentations. The speakers left no stone unturned in kindling the fire in youngsters.
 
 Speaking on the occasion, Roy who wrote a book ‘The special dish’ at the age of 16, said how he was fascinated by superheros and people keep on finding them in movies and comics. “Real superheros are in our lives in the form of common people and most important out of those are our parents,” he said.
 
 Further taking up the podium, where Swaima Ahmad gave a rather motivational speech encouraging youngsters to overcome all the shortcomings and follow their aspirations, Banait expressed sad scenario of tigers in the country thereby giving solutions for the same.
 
  Chaudhary branded belief as most important thing in life and also suggested elder ones to be out of the youth's way if you cannot guide them well.
 
 
