MUMBAI: City students failed to secure a spot in the all-India toppers’ list for the third year in a row. Subjects like biology pulled down scores while physics brought in the marks. While the toppers from north India secured a near-perfect score of 99.8%, one of the highest scorer here was   (98.6%) from Delhi Public School, Nerul. 

 Principals feel fewer students and diversity causes city students to lose out. “ICSE schools are concentrated in Mumbai, hence students have more resources, which isn’t the case with CBSE. Also, CBSE students are competing at national level,” said Avnita Bir, principal, RN Podar School, Santacruz. Unhappy with their biology scores, several students are planning to apply for revaluation. Principal of Army Public School,  , Vipanjot Sehdeva, said, “At least seven students who scored 90+ in biology in the pre-boards scored in the 80s. Many also want to send their English paper for revaluation. 
 
 
  
 Our school topper, Mahendra Pratap from commerce stream, scored 95.8% with 100 in economics and physical education, but scored 88 in English.”  , regional director (western) of DAV Public Schools too said many kids who scored higher marks at school in English and biology got comparatively lesser in the boards. “The highest marks scored by our students in science and commerce have dropped marginally, but students scoring above 90% have gone up,” he said. According to him, students had done exceptionally well in physics, followed by mathematics and accountancy. 
 
 Students had found the physics paper extremely difficult and several online petitions had sought lenient evaluation. “I was caught off guard by the paper which was quite different from previous years. When I saw the 100 on my transcript, I was overjoyed,” said Saachi Jain, who with a score of 97.8% topped the science stream at R N Podar School. But for some, accountancy was a dampener. At Kendriya Vidyalaya 1, Colaba, and R N Podar School, Santacruz, several students received lower than expected in the subject. “Also, humanities scores took a hit due to political science,” said KV-1 principal  . 
 
 Results of the economics exam, which students had to take twice had mixed reviews. Josika Mahindru, Navy Children’s School, Colaba, said, “The exam interfered with my entrance exam studies. I didn’t do as well in the second exam. I plan to go for revaluation.” But Kalpana Dwivedi, principal, St Joseph School, Panvel, said students scored well in the paper. Mamta Bhattacharya, principal of Kendriya Vidyalaya-IIT, Powai, said no student who selected biology group scored 90% and above.
