THANE: Self safety equals to safe journey, this is a message being driven by the   to motorists, especially two-wheelers drivers who refrain from wearing helmets. In  , the traffic officials have fined around 1,058 motorists. Out of this, Kalwa leads the chart with 365 motorists fined, followed by Wagle Estate at 272 and   at 140.

 In recent times, the number of bike accidents in the city has risen drastically. Most of them are fatal. At times, a motorist’s life could have been saved if they were only wearing a helmet, claim officials from the traffic department. 
 
 Holding placards with safety messages, traffic department conducted an awareness drive on Friday during which an official dressed as a beheaded man approached bikers   without helmet. “In December, we had fined around 1,058 motorists for not wearing a helmet. So, in order to make motorists aware of the dangers of not using a helmet we had staged an act. A headless man was shown walking on the streets holding his head in one hand and a helmet in another. The official, dressed as a beheaded man, was requesting motorists to wear a helmet while riding,” said Amit Kale, DCP at the traffic department.
 
 The drive was carried out at major junctions in the city. “As many as 365 bikers were booked for not wearing a helmet in Kalwa, following Wagle Estate with 272 and 140 in Naupada. We have noticed that while most motorists carry a helmets along with them, they do not wear it on their head. Instead, they either tie it to their backseat or just hand it around their wrist. Bikers do not realise that wearing a helmet will ensure that own safety in case of an accident,” said a traffic official.
 
 Meanwhile, bikers as well as pedestrians were taken by shock and surprise as they saw the beheaded man walking on the street. While the traffic cops fine an offender Rs 500 for riding without a helmet, on Friday offenders were let off with a warning and a keychain, in which the message self safety=safe journey was inscribed.
 
 “The traffic department adopted a unique way to make one realise how a small negligence could not only harm ones life, but also affect the family. They let off the offenders by making them aware about the importance of wearing a helmet. This time, the officials did not charge us a fine, instead they handed us a keychain with a safety message,’’ said  , a biker.
 
 
