JAIPUR: In a bid to check the construction of high-rises in the periphery of Sanganer   and state hanger, the government has fixed the height slab of such buildings within a radius of 500 metres from the airport.

 The 500 metre distance has been fixed after considering state hanger as a centre point. Following the state government’s direction, the   ( ) will issue notification and frame the new bylaws. The building permission in the surrounding area will be provided as per the norms which will be fixed. 
 
 An official said, while only 10 metre height of a building will be allowed in areas up to 200 metres, it will be up to 30 metre after a distance of 450 metre to 500 metre. Beyond 500 metre, the height of the building up to 34 metre will be allowed. 
 
 A senior official at JDA informed, “Civil aviation and intelligence officials inspected the site to fix security parameters and height of the buildings. The new rules will be framed following their recommendations,” he said.
 
 Sources in the department claimed, “Three high-rise buildings near the state hangar, adjoining the Jaipur International Airport, which pose a security threat to VVIPs using the airstrip, will remain sealed.”
 
 The construction of high-rise buildings near the Jaipur airport was halted after objections were raised by chief minister   claiming them to be a 'security threat'.
 
 In August 2016, a letter was written to the ministry of civil aviation regarding the security threat posed by high-rise buildings in the vicinity of Jaipur, Jodhpur and Udaipur airports without mentioning any specific building.
 
 Following this, the bureau of civil aviation security issued a draft on standard operating procedures (SOP) to monitor and regulate land use, including constructions, near airports. It included scrutiny of other activities outside the perimeter wall up to a distance of 100 metres, in order to address security and safety concerns at the airport.
 
 In February 2017, the   ( ) went a step further and put a cap on the distance for constructing multi-storied buildings from the boundary wall (500 feet, about 152 metre) of Jaipur airport.
 
 This brought three high-rises into the ambit of security threat. Later, the UDH department too revoked the permission for high-rise buildings near the airport and state hangar. A proposal was then floated to acquire these buildings.
 
 
