PATIALA: Beating the stereotype of guns and ‘geri’, youth here have helped the   achieve a rare feat during the ongoing four-day book fair. The university has sold out all the books put up for sale, earning Rs 30 lakh. The total sale has reached around the mark of Rs 50 lakh in just three days.

 One of the major contribution came on the day of inauguration with Sarbat da   chairman S P S Oberoi buying books worth around Rs 21 lakh. He announced setting libraries in 12,000 villages and some jails and gifting these book of them. Oberoi said that next time his trust would purchase more books of the university and the total would cross Rs 40 lakh.
 
 In the fair, the university had displayed its books published by it and written by historians including Dr Ganda Singh, Fauja Singh, and others. It sold off all the stock of old and rare books at 50% discount. As is has the copyright, the university would publish these books again and sell them at a much higher prices.
 
 A number of students, research scholars, teachers from schools, some professors and retire professors also caught hold of the some of the rare books of the university. Some private book sellers who were provided the space sold their rare books at a high cost than its actual cost as these books were not published for a long time.
 
 Book seller   said, “I had sold the rare books that were my own collection. One of these books included ‘Rajas of Panjab’ and the set was sold at Rs 1,200. A professor from Punjabi University purchased this set.”
 
  head Professor   said, “We are making efforts to revive the reading habit among the youth. We displayed the entire stock of the university, including some rare books, so that students may purchase and learn from them. Private sellers like the NBT, Oxford and others have also been given space and books of over Rs 50 lakh have been sold out in only three days. I have myself purchased books of Rs 1 lakh to distribute among my friends on their demand as they could not reach here. We have the largest collection of books in comparison to other universities in Punjab. We own over 5,200 titles. Now we are also selling our books through etailers. We already have got an order of around 2500 books.”
 
 The Punjabi University had recently tied up with the online sellers like Amazon and Flipkart to sell their books. It publishes over 100 new titles of the books every year. The university, however, is also facing financial crisis these days and it have been making all the efforts to chip in the funds by donations or to save its own expenses.
 
 The university, however, failed to participate in the recently held New Delhi World Book fair. It had recently got two printing machines donated by the university staffers including non-teaching ones.
 
 
