INDORE: From planning surprise lunch or dinner and spa dates to ordering bouquets and cakes, the residents of   are going an extra mile to make this Mother’s Day special for their beloved mothers. 

 Preparations have been on for many days ahead of the Mother’s Day. “This is the day when my sister and I don’t allow our mother to even move a glass. We pamper her throughout the day with small   including roses, cakes, and handmade greetings,” said Vandana Sadashiv, who plans to go about with the same tradition with some additional gifts this time.
 
 The newly married couples in the city are trying to ensure that both-their mother and mother-in-law make the most of this day. “My wife and I have decided to take both our mothers on healthy date to a local café, which serves protein rich meals and smoothies, to make certain that they eat healthy food on this special day,” said businessman Jatin Sachdeva.
 
 The residents of Indore are leaving no stone unturned to make the day special for their mother. There are some Indoreans, who are not only planning to make the day special for their mother, but for mother of their friends too, since they won’t be able to celebrate with their children for some reasons.
 
 For city-based businessman Divya Maheshwari this year has become even more emotional since he will be celebrating Mother’s day along with his friend’s mother too. The 27-year-old, who lost his close friend in a road accident last year, has plans to celebrate Mother’s Day not only with his mother, but his friend’s mom as well.“Ansh was the only child, so my friend and I decided to make sure that we make her day by getting a cake for her and spending some quality time with her so that she doesn’t feel left out on this day,” added Maheshwari.
 
 As for those who are staying in the city away from their own mother, want to make this day special for other mothers too. Mahima Singh, who has shifted to Indore some months ago, has decided to make this day special for the mothers, who live in the old-age homes as they don’t have anyone to celebrate this day with.
 
 “My brother will make this day special for my mom so I have decided to go to an old-age home and spend some hours with those   who don’t have anyone to celebrate the day with them. I don’t want them to feel left out on this day,” Mahima said.
 
 
