NEW DELHI: India continued their dominant run in the Under 19 World Cup by dishing out a clinical all-round performance with the ball that saw them steamroll Papua New Guinea by 10 wickets in their second Group B match on Tuesday. Left-arm spinner   finished with impressive figures of 5/14 as PNG were rolled over for a lowly 64. 

 
 ALSO READ: 
 
 
 Indian batsmen, in reply, broke no sweat and took just eight overs to register their second win of the tournament and fourth over PNG in Under-19 World Cups.   and Manjot Kalra made ensured India sealed a rather comfortable win that helped improve their NRR to 3.89 to go atop Group B.
 
 Shaw in particular looked in hurry. Once he cracked Semo Kamea for three boundaries in the second, there was no looking back. Shaw finished things up with a boundary, his 12th of the innings and remained unbeaten on 57 off 39. 
 
 With an overcast sky and strong wind blowing across the Bay Oval in Mount Maunganui, Prithvi Shaw called it right at the toss and showed no hesitation in bowling first. His decision was backed well by the Indian pace duo of Shivam Mavi and Kamlesh Nagarkoti, both of whom racked up some serious pace no later than the first two overs of the match. 
 
 PNG batsmen were looked all over the place from ball one. Mavi provided the first two breakthroughs for India when he trapped Igo Mahuru right in front of the stumps and followed it with a picture-perfect yorker that cleaned up Heagi Toua for nought. A needless run out saw PNG slip to 26/3, and they never recovered after those early dents. Simon Atai and Ovia Sam were able to muster a couple of boundaries each but once Anukul was introduced in the ninth over, it all went downhill. PNG lost their last five batsmen for just three runs.
 
 
 
 The last four batsmen’s score read 0, one of them remaining unbeaten and rest scalped by Anukul. The left-arm spinner sent one between Semo Kamea’s bat and pad to pick up his maiden five-wicket haul in ODIs. Fittingly, he was named Man of the Match. 
 
 This remains the 18th lowest-total in an Under-19 World Cup and five of them have come from PNG.
 
 
 
 
