HYDERABAD : As the wait got longer, stranded passengers got into verbal duels with the authorities, while others sat helplessly, perhaps praying for the ordeal to end. Hundreds of women, children and aged passengers, many of whom had connecting flights to domestic and international destinations waited all night.

 “After the first hour, there was just no place to sit. We stood for six hours at a stretch,” said Sreekesh  , a resident of Hyderabad travelling to New Delhi for a job interview. “Forgot about food, even water was scarce. We had to run from pillar to post to seek updates,” said the flier, only glad that the Delhi firm had agreed to reschedule his interview.
 
 Scores of others booked with Yeniganti on the IndiGo flight to Delhi, narrated similar tales of despair. Crammed inside the airport, they shared how uncertainty coupled with lack of basic facilities made life miserable for those hours. That mobile phone batteries were fast draining compounded their problem.
 
 “I was worried about my two young children. After a point, I didn’t know how to calm them. I could only find some dry rice to feed them. It was depressing and infuriating at the same time,” said Anita R, travelling to Bengaluru.
 
 “Both the airlines and the airport officials must share the blame for our horrible experience. Our airports must improve their management skills in times of such crisis,” said  , another aggrieved passenger.
 
 While the   airport has a second runway, sources said it does not have night landing facility. In fact, it is only used when the primary runway is under maintenance, said a source.
 
 In a statement issued on Thursday, a GHIAL stated: “In light of the nature of incident, the aircraft recovery was managed in the shortest possible time through combined efforts of IndiGo airline, Hyderabad International Airport, AAI, DGCA and all other airport stakeholders. Once the flight operations resumed, Airport Operations Control Centre, the nerve centre of the airport, effectively managed the airside and terminal resources for seamless arrivals and departures.”
 
 TIMES VIEW: It’s unfortunate that one of the country's best airport doesn't have night landing facilities on the secondary runaway. The harrowing experience of passengers at the Hyderabad airport due to inordinate delay in towing away the stranded ATR aircraft should serve as a wakeup call for all airlines and airport authorities, who should plan for emergencies.
 
 
