MANALI: Mountains of garbage that welcome all those visiting otherwise picturesque Kullu and Manali towns are apparently here to stay. No panchayat in the district is ready to give land for garbage disposals, even as both the dumping yards, on the banks of Beas River, are full to the brim.

 Kullu Municipal Council (MC) and Bhuntar nagar panchayat dump the waste collected near   in Kullu. Manali MC dumps garbage at Rangari.
 
 The towns are generating several tonnes of solid waste, which has resulted in several feet high heaps of waste visible from long distances. Even segregation and proper treatment of garbage is very difficult in the limited space. Stinky smell from garbage makes it difficult to stay in the area.
 
 Both, the   high court and the NGT, had given directions to the MCs to shift the dumping site but they have failed in finding new chunks of land. Residents say the garbage sometime falls into river as wind blows.
 
 In Kullu, MC has installed a biomedical waste incinerator to destroy biomedical waste but it produces so much odor that residents of nearby area say that they are forced to close their doors and windows.
 
 Kullu MC vice-president Gopal Krishan Mahant claims Kullu is cleanest town in the state where no garbage is found on streets. “We burn biomedical waste in incinerator. Plastic waste is being sent to a cement factory at   for proper destruction. We are doing our best in garbage dumping and treatment,” he said. There is still no answer to the civic body’s search of a new dumping site.
 
 Manali MC has also tried with nearby gram panchayats and forest land. Manali MC president Shabnam Tanwar said panchayats were not giving   to let their land be used as dumping ground. “Manali town area is already congested and we do not have any vacant space. We are now on final stage to set up a power generation project that will run on garbage by using it as fuel. It will decongest the dumping site and we will be able to treat the garbage efficiently without worrying for future,” she said.
 
 Concerned about increasing pollution in Beas, NGT has ordered imposing fine of Rs 1 lakh whoever pollutes this river or its tributaries. This week only, Kullu deputy commissioner fined the National Highway Authority of India Rs 1 lakh for dumping mud into the Beas.
 
 
