KOLKATA: On a day Kolkatans took to the streets and   to register their strong protest against the   and murder and  ,  , who had lacked out their profile photographs and criticized the incidents, were trolled and some, threatened with gang rape. 

 "You consider yourself very brave? Since you are born a girl, rape is inevitable. Don't try to threaten with your stupid posts. Don't try to raise your voice on these matters. You step out on to the streets. Do you want to be gangraped?" read a post sent by one Pappu Mukherjee to a woman, who had joined the blackout movement and been vocal about politicians trying to shield rape accused. 
 
 She wasn't the only one to be threatened. Kolkata police said they have has been tagged to several messages, chats and conversations on social media where protesters-especially women-received various threats, "including that of gang rape". Police said they had detected three fake profiles till Wednesday evening from which threats had been issued to multiple women.
 
 A cyber cell officer said all the complaints would be looked into. "We are inquiring and if required, will lodge FIRs. We are trying to contact Facebook and WhatsApp," said a senior Lalbazar officer.
 
 The police also sent out a warning against rumours that were communalizing the situation. 
 
 "A false rumour being spread on social media about a missing minor girl held captive in a Metiabruz house and police being afraid of raiding house. Don't believe in rumours being spread to create communal tension. All indulged in spreading rumour would be severely dealt with," tweeted Praveen Tripathi, joint commissioner of police (crime).
 
 Over the past few days, netizens have been changing their profile photos on Facebook and Whatsapp to black to protest against the rape of an eight-year-old child who was kept sedated and tortured for several days before being killed at Kathua in Jammu and Kashmir. 
 
 But from Tuesday, some of the protesters claimed they had started receiving threats on Facebook. Pappu Mukherjee was one such abuser who posted threatening messages on the profile of a 19-year-old south Kolkata resident. The man was not even on her friend list. 
 
 The girl immediately posted a screenshot of the threat on her Facebook profile, which was shared over a thousand times through the day, tagging the Kolkata Police. Many reported against Pappu's profile, following which Facebook suspended the account by evening.
 
 "My daughter is in the third year and my son is in Class VII. I fear what dark and barbaric world they are stepping into," said Aditi Berari, a homemaker from Santoshpur.
 
 Author user, Jashodhara Roy Chowdhury, said changing Facebook display picture was a symbolic protest to raise voice against the vicious incident.
 
 "I believe in the power of collective protest. Social media or on streets. It is now proved that Kathua and Unnao were neglected for nine and three months. After collective outrage, mainly on social media, Supreme Court, Allahabad High Court and the Prime Minister took cognisance. MLAs resigned, MLA arrested. I hail this power of collective protest," said  , ENT surgeon at Medica. 
 
 In the evening, a candle light march was organised by Indian Pluralism Foundation, where people from all faiths and religions joined in a walk from St. Paul's Cathedral Church to MG Road statue near Esplanade. 
 
 "The march is about safety of women and children, irrespective of the faith they subscribe to. We are united as Indians to protest against such barbaric act. We hope it sends a strong message," said Alexander Anthony, president of Catholic Association of Bengal, who had participated in the march.
 
 
