NEW DELHI:   Hardeep Puri on Friday slammed the Sealing Committee for carrying out sealing drive in the past two days in Delhi without using “common sense” and despite being aware that the process of proposed changes in the   has started as per the direction of the  . He also warned strict actions against officials, who sealed properties without doing due diligence.

 “It’s a misfortune that sealing happened in some parts of Delhi even as the   has allowed the government to undertake the process of amending the Master Plan, and the process of inviting suggestions and objections is underway. The SC has given us 15 days time,” Puri told reporters adding that the civic officers involved in the recent sealing drive had done it in contravention of the SC order.
 
 Puri said, “It (sealing action) has to be anchored on rule of law and doctrine of common sense...Please use your common sense...The officers are aware which all streets have been proposed to be designated as mixed use or commercial streets. So, these shops could get regularised after complying with the norms.”
 
 The minister also said in such cases the sealing committee should have issued notices to the property owners before taking action. “They did not follow these norms in the past as well. Had everything been done properly, why properties were also de-sealed?” Puri asked.
 
 This is not the first time that Puri lashed out at the sealing committee. Earlier he had charged the panel of “sitting in air-conditioned rooms” without having proper understanding of the ground realities. 
 
 Even an official release from his ministry said the sealing drive has led to untold misery, loss of livelihood and business and inconvenience to those whose premises were “wrongly sealed”. 
 
 However, Puri said now with Delhi’s situation reaching “rock bottom” the government has taken steps to put in place a system to streamline everything. “The ecosystem that has allowed a culture of impunity to thrive is being dismantled. Henceforth, there shall be no tolerance towards encroachments and illegal constructions in Delhi. Strict and swift action will be taken against officers who allow any such activity.”
 
 Hinting at how there is connivance of local officials in illegal constructions, Puri cited the example of how drugs industry cannot flourish without support of police.
 
 The ministry said no officials will be spared for inaction against illegal construction. The actions will include registration of  , cases under the Prevention of Corruption Act for “abetment” to corruption. The government will launch a mobile application and website next week through which people can complain against unauthorised constructions in their vicinity. Complaints relating to old cases will also be investigated and action will be taken against guilty officials.
 
 
