NAGPUR: Experts at N-COPS Excellence Training Center have succeeded in bringing transformation among police personnel by conducting 39 workshops on ‘emotional quotient’ during a 300-day journey.

 Police have claimed that the workshops have helped rebuild the confidence among woman cops who had developed suicidal thoughts under acute pressure.
 
 The center, a brainchild of city police commissioner  , is the only sort of ‘transformative laboratory’ of cops in the state. It was inaugurated by chief minister   on April 4 last year.
 
 Along with EQ workshops, many other seminars have since been conducted to increase police personnel’s knowledge pertaining to law, how to perform more efficiently, get effective results in less time, time management, using past experience to get focused, attain clear vision in forthcoming cases and professional development.
 
 While talking to reporters at old administration building on Tuesday,   (EoW)   talked about the ‘impact study’ of N-COPS center. “Police also want someone to listen to their queries and problems. During the interactive EQ sessions, experts told us that every cop has a different story to share. During duty hours, they suffer from emotional breakdowns which affect their credibility,” the DCP said.
 
 “Beating old policing is unquestionably important to change the perception of citizens towards the cops,” Khedkar said.
 
 In 300 days, altogether 137 workshops were held which were attended by 11,250 police personnel. As many as 39 workshops on EQ were organized for cops’ families to make them understand the challenges. During these workshops, the cops taught to manage their anger by assuming its consequences. They were told to debate with their own destructive thoughts and discard them soon.
 
 For example, a woman cop and mother of two was depressed due to her marital dispute. She tried to commit suicide several times. After attending the EQ workshops, she understood that every dark cloud has a silver lining. Now, she is one of the better performers in the department.
 
 Besides, seminars were also held to teach the techniques of ‘garbhasanskar’ to women cops so that they can handle pregnancy in a better way during duty hours.
 
 
