GREATER NOIDA: Marriages are made in heaven but solemnised on earth — sometimes twice if the offer is lucrative enough.

 At least 10 married couples have tied the knot again in Gautam Budh Nagar, it has emerged, to partake of government benefits worth around Rs 35,000 each. Some like Ravindra and Babita have been married for 13 years and have three kids together, but wedded again at the mass ceremony organised by the district administration on February 24.
 
 As part of the UP chief minister’s pet project, the Gautam Budh Nagar administration had organised the   of 66 couples who have an annual income of less than Rs 48,000 each. When TOI visited their villages in Cheeti-Nangla, some were found to own double-storied houses and have children. The mass wedding, organised on the YMCA club ground, had cost the state exchequer Rs 23 lakh in taxpayers’ money, officials said.
 
 On Monday, the families of at least six of the couples confirmed to this paper that they had married again for the lure of money and gifts. They claimed they had been advised to do so by the panchayat pradhan’s husband to get easy money.
 
 Dharmendra Bhati, the husband of the pradhan Babita Bhati, said he was not aware of the couples being married already. The district administration is planning to file an FIR against the couples. But that is hardly a cause for their concern — some couples said their “second marriage” hadn’t been registered and they could not be held accountable.
 
 As news started doing the rounds, district magistrate BN Singh on Monday sent a team of officials headed by chief development officer Anil Kumar Singh to speak to the couples and their families.
 
 A visit to Nangla village revealed that the oldest of the couples was Ravindra and Babita, who had married 13 years ago and have three kids together. Ravindra, an auto driver, owns a single-storied house in Nangla.
 
 His cousin Vineet, too, got married to Nishu, his wife of one-and-a-half years, last month. The couple have a child. Similarly, Naveen, a private contractor, remarried his wife of two years.
 
 “It was the   panchayat pradhan’s husband who had asked for newly wed couples. We were told we would get gifts,” Naveen’s uncle Mukesh Bhatia said.
 
 Asked if he knew the administration was planning an FIR against couples found to have married again, he was nonchalant in his reply. 
 
 “There is nothing in writing. The marriage was not registered with the block development office. What will an FIR do in such a case?” he asked.
 
 The list of such couples was longer in Cheeti. Sobindra and Lakshmi, Bunty and Sonia, Mohit and Pinky, Ranjit and Soni, Girish and Saroj, Hariom and Poonam and Pawan and Foola had all married again at the mass wedding last month.
 
 “It is not something we did on our own. We just acted on the directions of the panchayat pradhan’s husband,” said Sheela Devi, whose son Bunty married Sonia, with whom he had tied the knot in June last year.
 
 Administrative officials pinned the blame on the panchayat pradhan’s husband and the block development officer. They, however, admitted a lapse on their part as the identity of the couples had not been verified before they were registered for the mass wedding.
 
 District magistrate Singh said an FIR would be lodged against the couples found to have married again.
 
 “It has been found that the panchayat pradhan’s husband had brought these 10 couples to the wedding and informed officials of the social development department. They should have got these couples registered with the BDO, who has to verify the list, but it was not done. Two officials have been found to be involved in the fraud. We will reveal their names later,” he said.
 
 The DM said the officials found guilty and the panchayat pradhan’s husband would “have to compensate” the government for the gifts distributed among the couples.
 
 Launched in October 2017, the government’s Mukhyamantri Samoohik Vivaah Yojana aims at helping poor couples get married by giving Rs 20,000 to the bride, gifts worth Rs 10,000 and additional expenses of around Rs 5,000 for their wedding.
 
 At the mass wedding on February 24, Union minister and local MP Mahesh Sharma, Dadri MLA Tejpal Nagar, Jewar MLA Thakur Dhirendra Singh, DIG/SSP Love Kumar and other officials were present.
 
 
