PUNE: The Pune airport has dropped one place in the global ranking of airports handling 2-5 million passengers.

 A survey done by the   (ACI) gave Pune airport the 35th rank in the fourth quarter of the year (October-December), though in the third quarter, the airport had a slightly better rank of 34. The deciding factor was the quality of services provided to the passengers.
 
 Sources, however, said the Pune airport’s performance was still good as it was ranked 35th among 300 airports across the world that fall in the 2-5 million passenger-traffic category.
 
 “We are 35th among hundreds of airports. This is a good sign. Of course, there are many things that can be improved and developed at the airport, and we are working on that. Many projects, aimed at improving passenger amenities, have been launched and the works are going on at the moment. This year, we expect to see some big projects being completed,” an airport official said.
 
 
  
 Of the 33 parameters, which are used to rate the airports, the survey revealed that the Pune airport’s performance in the fourth quarter had declined in 31. The parameters include parking facilities, waiting time in queues, the efficiency of the check-in staff, courtesy and helpfulness of the airline staff, waiting time at the security check area etc. The airport has, however, scored well in areas like making connections with other flights, availability of washrooms/toilets, overall passenger satisfaction etc.
 
 George Andrews, who works in a multinational company and is a frequent flyer, feels the biggest problem is the small size of the airport. “I got to know that they are increasing the size of the apron area. That is a good idea. Flight delays cause a lot of problems at the airport. There are very few parking bays for the aircraft and that causes a lot of frustration among the passengers. There have been times when I have had to sit in the flight for about an hour after it had landed, only because the plane could not find a bay,” Andrews said.
 
 Samrat Dheer, another frequent flyer, was positive and hopeful. “I think the airport has improved a lot. However, there is still scope for improvement. The authorities should train the staff to improve their behaviour. The food outlets and the airport lounge must improve too,” Dheer said.
 
 Dhairyashil Vandekar, an aviation analyst and expert, said a controlled growth was required. “There will be chaos if the growth isn’t controlled. All the stakeholders, including the AAI, DGCA, airlines etc. must ensure that proper services are provided to the people. One shouldn’t point fingers only at the AAI,” Vandekar said.
 
 
