CHENNAI: Reiterating its earlier conditions that no bird should be either intoxicated or 'armed' with knives, the Madras   has permitted the popular rooster fights in Tiruvallur district this year. The events are to be held for three days from January 17 to mark the birth centenary of former chief minister   and the birth anniversary of his successor J Jayalalithaa. 

 Justice R Suresh Kumar, passing orders on a writ petition filed by M   seeking the court's nod to hold the contests at   in Tiruvallur district, said that during the fight, there should not be any injury caused to the birds and that the birds should not be intoxicated with any alcoholic substance. 
 
 No knives should be tied around the birds' legs, he said, perhaps taking note of the practice of organisers at several events dipping the tip of a knife in poison before attaching it to the bird's leg. Also, a veterinary doctor should ensure compliance of these conditions before the start of the event, the judge said.
 
 Justice Suresh Kumar made it clear that the organisers should take precautionary measures and avoid untoward incidents during the event. Songs praising communal leaders or having communal overtones should not be played at the event and no hoardings depicting leaders of any community should be allowed at the venue, he said. 
 
 Noting that the Tiruvallur district superintendent of police should be present at the events and monitor them, the judge said that in case any of the conditions laid down are violated, police are at liberty to take appropriate action against the organisers.
 
 The judge said that in view of the earlier orders passed by the high court, pursuant to which rooster fights had been held smoothly in the past, there could be no impediment to issuing a direction to police this year also to consider granting permission besides providing security for the event.
 
 Munuswamy said residents of his village had formed a committee which organised the birth anniversary celebrations of MGR every year.
 
 
