NOIDA: While commuters have a smooth ride on the elevated   from   18 to Sector 60 and further, wrong-side driving is rampant on at least two stretches under the road. 

 Those headed towards sectors   come down the elevated road and travel on the wrong   for almost 200 metres, disrupting heavy traffic coming from sectors 24, 57 and nearby areas on the  , over which the elevated road has been built.
 
 
 
 On Saturday, commuters on bikes,  , vans and even bicycles from the Sector 18 side headed to sectors 12/22 could be seen travelling on the wrong side of the elevated road merely to avoid driving all the way to a U-turn at   intersection around 1km away.
 
 When asked about the violation, Anil, an accountant headed towards sectors 12/22 after exiting the elevated road, seemed embarrassed. “I have to travel over 1km till the U-turn in Mamura to take the turn towards sectors 12/22 chowk. It becomes too long. I know it is not right to drive on the wrong side,” he admitted.
 
  
 A class XII student, Sumit, could also be seen following a few bikes travelling on the wrong side on his bike.
 
 “There should be a turn available on the road adjacent to the road towards sectors 12/22. We wouldn’t have to go all the way ahead to Mamura intersection then. I do it only to save time and effort,” he said.
 
 
 
 Countless commuters exiting the elevated road to the companies in Sector 60, who are also supposed to take a turn at Mamura, can be seen violating the rule. 
 
 In a span of two minutes, this TOI correspondent saw as many as three pick-up vans, carrying employees, travelling on the wrong side after exiting the elevated road to reach corporate offices in Sector 60.
 
 These pick-up vans blatantly travel on the wrong side without fear of action. Kanhaiya, who plies a pick-up van on the stretch, said: “Though I know that I’m driving on the wrong side, I will have to travel over 1km for reaching the company office from the correct route.”
 
 
 
 Commuters emerging from sectors 53, 54 and adjoining areas routinely drive on the wrong side of   Marg to get onto the elevated road.
 
  No traffic police officer is present at the elevated road entry point to stop them from violating the rules.
 
 Traffic police, however, said commuters tend to violate rules despite their taking action against violators.
 
 “On Wednesday, we had led a drive against those driving on the wrong side. Those wanting to take a wrong U-turn continue to take wrong U-turns no matter what, even though challans are issued against them. People should commute in an orderly manner,” traffic inspector Layak Singh said.
 
 
