MUMBAI: The state’s   (ACB) has turned down an RTI request for details of pending cases against housing minister   on grounds that this is personal information which will cause unwarranted invasion of privacy. Also, that it could endanger the life or safety of a person or identify the source of information and impede the investigation process.

 These are exemption clauses under Section 8 of the Right to Information Act, 2005, which allow for information to not be disclosed. 
 
 Interestingly, Mehta says there are no cases pending against him with the ACB. “There are no cases pending against me. There was only one old matter in 2008 which was disposed of,” Prakash Mehta told TOI. 
 
 The complainant in the case,  , also confirmed, “This matter had been closed a while ago.” Anti-Corruption Bureau chief Vivek Phansalkar (additional charge) declined to comment on whether there were any cases pending.
 
 The RTI application was filed by lawyer Ankit Shah, who sought information on the 2008 case as well details of other investigations pending against the minister. The application was filed in January and the reply received on February 20.
 
 “If there are no cases pending against the minister, the ACB should have said so. This reply gives the impression that the ACB wants to keep the information confidential,” said Shah.
 
 The ACB used sections 8 1 (g) and (j) to decline information on the 2008 case against Mehta. Section 8 1 (j) allows for an exemption if the information sought is personal and does not serve any public interest or would cause “unwarranted invasion of the privacy of the individual”. The information has specifically been declined on invasion of privacy grounds.
 
 Section 8 1 (g) of the Act allows exemption from information if it endangers the source of information. In case the disclosure “would endanger the life or physical safety of any person or identify the source of information or assistance given in confidence for law enforcement or security purposes.” 
 
 The ACB then declined information on the list of investigations pending against Mehta. Information was declined once again because it could engender the life or safety of the source, but an additional section was invoked which allows exemption of information which would “impede the process of investigation or the apprehension of offenders.”
 
 Former central information commissioner   said that invoking such exemptions could end up creating doubt. “How can information on cases against a public figure be viewed as personal information?” he asked.
 
 Housing minister Mehta of the BJP is currently facing a Lokayukta probe following Opposition pressure after TOI’s report on July 12 last year which said that Mehta had cleared an irregular SRA proposal that allowed extra building rights granted to slumdwellers at the MP Mill compound near   in Tardeo to be transferred to a scheme for the project- affected (PAP).
 
