Love will still keep us alive, though the love landscape of 2018 is filled with mines. So, how does one find this elusive emotion? Well, to begin with gadget-y habits must go.

 
 Skip the apps: from Tinder to texting, it’s killing romance and confusing your heart. You are becoming a made-up version of yourself, worried more about your ‘best face/traits’ forward rather than who you really are. And along with controlling this best version profile, you are also trying to control love. That is the No. 1 killer of romance, believes romance author Aastha Atray Banan. “The idea to control and manipulate the other is so strong these days that men and women are both hooking with people who would worship them and put them up on a pedestal. Everyone is pretending to be someone else that’s why relationships are failing,” she says. Such people will never be your equals and will only disappoint both the man and the woman. Look for people who are your equals; someone whose friendship can develop into a strong bond over the years. 
 
 
 
 Eyes locked across a crowded room; phone numbers scribbled on napkins; writing poetry, long “no you hang up” conversations late into the night; flowers; date nights; chocolates; followed by comfortable settling into togetherness. Go in for old-fashioned love. Allow your feelings to bloom organically. 
 
 
 
 Yes, we know how it sounds. But a Dr Hitch can guide both men and women through the ever-changing and increasingly-challenging landscape of love. Millie Kerr in her essay, What I Learned from Hiring a Love Coach, talks about cultivating lightheartedness and openness in modern romance. Love coach Kavita J Patel helps people find love through “a no-nonsense approach that helps women skip superficial dating rules and helps them change the patterns that keep them from finding love”. 
 
 
 
 Romance book   states that some fundamentals of caring/romance/love have changed. “The very basic question of why and how we love has changed. We have gone beyond fairy tales. Now, we enjoy reading real life stories – the ones we can identify with,” he explains. People are expressing their desires. Extra-martials are de rigueur for both men and women; there are those who have moved into open relationships. Singh adds, “Today, the bigger villain in Laila and Majnu’s story isn’t society – it’s Laila and Majnu themselves. They aren’t so sure about how they feel anymore.” 
 
 
 Hear this out loud. Even soulmates come with problems. The biggest myth about love is the idea that there will be no conflict and everything will be fine once you find your soulmate. No, it will get boring. Differences make life interesting. Says Banan, “The secret of long term marriage is being friends for life, being non-judgmental about your spouse. Lovers get into the judgmental mode, but not friends. That makes a marriage last, having no grudges, letting the partner feel and behave freely.” Don’t look for partners who fit your own template of how life and love should be. 
 
 
 
 Intimacy, surprise and spontaneity shouldn’t take backseats. One of the most crucial ingredients of a love potion is: surprises. It’s tender and flows unconditionally. When love matures, we mature and change, and so do our desires. Banan advises, “Love is found in the small things you do for your partner. Like my husband makes a cup of tea every morning. That’s love for me after 11 years of marriage. He also simply lets me be in a very accepting way.”
 
 
 
 This one is right in tune with the first point we made. The more you swipe right, the more rejection you are likely to face. And this despite the ‘best version’ of yourself. Says relationship expert Dr Kamal Khurana, “Our insecurities stem from the fear of rejection, and make us more wary of love. But if you want to find love, free yourself from the fear of rejection. If you don’t leave your anxieties behind, you won’t be strong.” And strong people have more capacity to love another as they aren’t confused about their own feelings.
 
 Today, the bigger villain in Laila and Majnu’s story isn’t society – it’s Laila and Majnu themselves. They aren’t so sure about how they feel anymore
 — Ravinder Singh, author
 
 
