Mumbai: The Union finance minister’s announcement about free health insurance worth Rs 5 lakh each for 10 crore families was welcomed, but experts warned that scheme should be have checks and balances to ensure it is not misused.

 One healthcare expert said it would pave the way for Universal Health Care, while another said it would give economically backward patients a “choice’’. Dr Ravi Duggal, who is the country coordinator for the International Budget Partnership said, “Insurers would gain business but the poor households may actually not gain much.’’ 
 
 On the positve side, a doctor said, “People would no longer have to be a part of a long waiting list at government hospitals. They will be welcome at private hospitals as well.’’ Apollo hospitals chairman Dr Prathap Reddy said, “Such ambitious out-of-the-box thinking was a burning need of the hour.’’ 
 
 The Budget merely announced the new scheme with no details. Wockhardt Hospitals group’s Zahabiya Khorakiwala said, “The intent is positive, as almost 40% of the underprivileged population would be able to access the secondary and tertiary healthcare, and this would increase the market size for healthcare providers radically.’’ Parijat Ghosh, Bain and Company Partner said the National Health Protection Scheme is a game-changer. However, he said the devil will be in the details. “There are lessons from countries like Indonesia, Mexico, China, Thailand that need to be addressed – managing the quantum and quality of supply infrastructure, unifying the multiple   schemes with this program, clarifying the coverage of drugs, diagnostics, procedures and financing arrangements.’’
 
 However, the announcement also came in for criticism. Dr Sunil Nandraj, former adviser to the Union health ministry, said, “Most regulations are not in place. Costs of procedures have to be fixed. The state government’s role in funding has to be fixed.’’ A researcher said, “The scheme will be is a windfall for insurance firms and private hospitals.’’
 
 
