CHENNAI: Smarting under the salvos fired by dissident   leader   on his leadership and government, the stability of which is still under scrutiny given the plea of disqualified MLAs pending before the Madras HC, chief minister Edappadi K   on Friday sought to assert that the government would treat the allegations as stepping stones for success. The elections to local bodies would be held shortly, after the delimitation exercise gets over, he said. 

 Palaniswami has completed 10 months in office with the support of 111 MLAs. Replying to the motion of thanks to governor's address to the assembly, the CM said "Amma's loyalists," deputy chief minister and cabinet colleagues, along with him, toiled day and night for people's welfare. "We believe the people of  , who are affectionate towards Amma, will stand by us," he said, amid a thumping of desks among the treasury benches.
 
 The chief minister said the fiscal deficit, which was estimated at 2.79% of the GDSP in the current fiscal year, was within the norms prescribed. The fiscal status, he said, was managed better than other states. 
 
 While his government was confronted with disasters, political developments and agitations by various sections, he credited late   for the achievements in all spheres. "It was made possible, also because of the lessons of hard work learned from the late leader," Palaniswami said, recalling the successful ending of transport unions' strike and the release of 750 crore of statutory pending dues for the retired workers and entering into a wage revision deal with the unions. The CM patted himself on the back for having successfully taken the policy decisions and speedy welfare measures in time. He said he had cleared nearly 4,903 files in the last 10 months and that there was no file pending in his office.
 
 Reading out a statement of achievements of his government under various heads for more than an hour, he made a special mention of the Modi government's support to the state for implementing schemes, including 1 lakh crore assured help from the surface transport ministry. The Centre released 6,343 crore for the several programmes, including TN Health Mission, upgradation of medical infrastructure and for setting up super speciality facilities in Madurai, Thanjavur and Tirunelveli hospitals. "People will never accept the opposition's attempt to create a wrong notion about the government that it was submissive to the Centre and given up its rights. We have not given up even an iota of our rights," the CM said.
 
 
