An actress who is young and at the peak of her career, not only points out the misogyny in a male superstar’s film in a public forum but also sticks to her words and goes on to file a police complaint against those who abused her online, in retaliation.

 What   did, and is continuing to do, is remarkable, to say the least. Considering the kind of boycott threats she has been getting, does she fear for her career? Has her comment led to the kind of positive discussion she hoped for? We ask Parvathy all this and more:
 
 
 
 
 
 Mr Mammootty has said what he deemed fit. I had nothing but respect for him even when I criticised his film. It was never an attack on him and I’m happy that he understands that. It’s completely up to him how he wants to communicate with his fans and what he wants to say. My focus is still on what I said at the open forum. My energy will always be driven towards that.
 
 
 
 At this point we are lacking a legal system which maps out what cyber bullying is. Social media is still pretty new to us. Trolling has been condoned for a long while now, because it was veiled as humour. But when the trolls are directed at women, and other sections like transgenders and men with feminine qualities, it becomes abuse, a means of intimidating them, to make you pay for something the bullies are not comfortable with.
 
 I’m not placing it on par with sexual assault but it’s a crime. Such threats would lead people to believe that it’s ok to do so, even physically. These arrests are just a beginning in making people understand how faulty our system is.
 
 
 
 
 Rima (Kallingal), Sajitha (Madathil), Deedi (Damodaran) and many others have been unabashedly political and openly speaking about existing issues for a while now. It just happened that in the recent years some of my films have been successes and I won awards. I would have spoken about them even if I weren’t successful. I have evolved into a different person and actor from what I was a few years ago. This awakening has been coming for a long time for me.
 The remark about Kasaba wasn’t pre-planned. But of late I’ve been watching and studying films and I’ve many such examples to give. If not this venue I would have said this somewhere else. There is no way I can stop talking about what I really feel should change in my workplace. I think I have the right to say that.
 
 I will keep repeating it until people get it – misogyny and violence and everything that’s bad in our life and society should be reflected in our films. It’s the glorification that is wrong.
 
 
 
 
 I’m extremely proud of Prithviraj for having said that. It shows immense maturity. There are so many others who have that sort of power and fan following. They too should understand the responsibility and I’m hoping more will make the right choices, even if they don’t speak.
 
 
 
 The writer and the director are ultimately responsible for what is portrayed and glorified in a film. Then comes the producer. There are several occasions when the producer requests ‘mass scenes’ and dialogues which lead to this kind of sickening glorifications.
 
 I wish every actor would read the screenplay, analyse it and discuss it with the writer and director if he has any reservations. The actor must take the effort for that discussion. I can only speak for actors, not for others. Not a single area of creativity will be curbed by weeding out unnecessary glorification of misogyny and violence.
 
 
 
 Not at all. When I look back, there isn’t a single film that I would disown because with every film I’ve learnt a lot. That’s why I’m the person I’m now. There are even films which taught me why these things are wrong.
 
 I’m not saying I’m perfect. But I’m someone who analyses and reflects on what I do, whether it’s in keeping with the ethics that I talk about in public. That’s how I’ve been all my life.
 
 Everybody can analyse and pass judgment on me as much as they want. But as long as l do my job right, as long as I’m dedicated, focused and respectful to the people I work with, as long as I fulfil my promise to the audience by doing good work, I don’t see how I’m wronging anyone.
 
 
 
 It’s definitely not because they don’t have an opinion. Many have come forward and supported me in what I said, when I was attacked. My very good friends have been vocal about it. I welcome anyone who disagrees with my point of view. There have been many who said, ‘Parvathy, I don’t agree with you but I don’t condone this attack against you.’ 
 
 
 
 I believe that those who understood the intention of what I said and why won’t resort to things like boycotting my films. Those are people who understand that a film is way beyond one person.
 
 I have faith in the audience that they will choose the right thing to do. They will see that I’m not speaking against an actor but about the general state of affairs. They could agree or not agree but to take it out on a group effort, a movie that affects a lot of people, including the producer, is an extremely irresponsible thing to do, especially when it comes from the so called ‘fans’. But it doesn’t affect me because I don’t take back what I said.
 I haven’t got any such hints from within the industry that they won’t associate with me. So I’m extremely secure with what I said in this workspace. That’s the sort of love and respect I’ve received from this industry.
 
 
 
 If anyone feels I’m too forward it’s time for them to up their game. I’m stating something which is extremely important, which has to be discussed. If someone doesn’t understand it, it’s alright. I’m asking anyone who can understand to pass on the baton.
 
 There have been a lot of wrong definitions of feminism which have been going around. The general perception of the word is a bad one. I believe, in the actual core of what the movement stood for, it’s not to win over or to take power away from a particular gender but to work together. But for us to reach a particular level of equality, a lot of things have to be discussed. But just as we are beginning to talk about it, if we are shunned like this, what is the point of discussing equality?
 
 
 
 It’s definitely to have open discussions and a better, respectful manner of welcoming such discussions. I believe it’s upon us to keep the fire burning, with no fear of being shunned. If we are tax-paying, law-abiding citizens of the country, I think it’s also up to us to not be silent when our society is going through such a volatile phase. I for one will not take the risk of silence anymore, I think that does way more damage than action. I urge people to see each other’s point of view and be respectful in such discussions. The only way forward is to keep talking.
 
 
 
