RAJKOT/AHMEDABAD: Owners of multiplexes and single-screen halls looked increasingly scared to release Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s ‘Padmaavat’ on January 25 after Karni   and other Rajput community outfits threatened of disruption, including arson and vandalism.

 Raj Shekhawat, Gujarat president of Shree Rashtriya Rajput   (SRRKS) on Friday openly threatened to torch all movie halls that dare to screen Padmaavat. “We are ready to face all consequences. The feelings of Rajputs have been hurt by the Supreme Court decision. Our members will resort to undemocratic means if needed. We won’t let the film release at any cost and torch all those theatres which release the film.”
 
 On Friday, Karni Sena members blocked traffic movement on several roads and highways across   by burning tyres and even stone-pelted a state transport bus, a private luxury bus and two trucks on Bhavnagar-Ahmedabad highway. Vehicle movement was badly disrupted on the Palitana-Bhavnagar highway, Ranpur road in Botad district, Samakhiyali-Bhachau highway and Samatra village in Kutch. In Rajkot too, Karni Sena members organized a bike rally on Thursday night and later held a candle-light march. Chances of the film being released in Saurashtra looked bleak with many multiplexes and single-screen theatres already deciding against screening it.
 
 Manish Parekh, manager, of a multipex in Bhavnagar said, “We are getting daily threats over phone warning against releasing the movie. Now, even if we get police protection, are not going to screen it.”
 
 In   too, none of the three single-screen theatres will release the movie, said Kishore Patel, owner of two movie halls. Rajkot’s Galaxy Talkies owner Rashmin Patel too echoed similar sentiments.
 
 Rajendrasinh Zala, a Karni Sena office-bearer told TOI, “We have issued an ultimatum to all the movie halls in Saurashtra to clarify their stand before January 24. We will not be responsible for any consequences later.”
 
 On Friday night, a meeting of Karni Sena was held in Rajkot to decide on the future course of action. Owners of multiplexes and cinema halls have been called for the meeting along with the   and   members.
 
 In Ahmedabad, SRRKS members are in discussions with the cinema halls asking them to ban the film. “The police have assured us of security as much as required but what if someone manages to barge in and vandalizes the property? We cannot afford such a risk and are seriously considering not to screen the movie,” said a member of the multiplex owners association.
 
 However, Pradipsinh Jadeja, minister of state for home said, "Barring few minor incidents, there is no major disturbance reported anywhere. Police are taking all measures to prevent any untoward incidents. We appeal people to maintain peace. The process of examining Supreme Court's order ongoing.''
 
 
