The merger of a non-descript village of 7,685 people into the civic limits in 2012 is gradually changing the face of  . But the merger is not enough as the residents want the   ( ) to take measures and preserve its pristine hills, lakes, forest and quarries.
 
 Most of the farmland have vanished and construction activity is sweeping through Yevlewadi. Plotting of hill-top land has started and business establishments and industries are mushrooming. However, there’s no plan in place to protect the natural surroundings.
 
  
  
 
 PMC has prepared a development plan for undertaking projects on land reserved for public amenities, but it’s not clear if the green zones have been identified or not.
 
 Property owner   said, “Villagers have filed numerous complaints with PMC to prevent destruction of environment after the merger, but in vain. Our elected representatives have raised the issue at the general body meeting. Civic officials are still not taking cognizance of our complaints. We have exhausted all legal options.”
 
 He added, “Properties owned by the villagers were free from reservation as per the original plans of PMC and the state government. PMC, at its general body meeting, suddenly decided to reserve our properties for constructing public amenities without consulting us. We have filed our objections.”
 
 Activist Dashrath   said, “We were deprived of basic amenities such as power supply, drainage line and street lights because the Yevlewadi gram panchayat did not have funds. The problem of water scarcity was also there as the lakes dried up in January and February. We are receiving water from the Vadgaon Dhayari pumping station. Most of our problems have been resolved after the merger. PMC has constructed road and the work of laying drainage line is in progress.”
 
 Kalbhor said, “We are opposed to the development plan because it has converted the hill top into a residential zone. Plans are afoot to start a garbage disposal unit and a crematorium atop the hills. We have filed over 700 objections opposing the plan because the villagers were not consulted. A garden and school will be constructed at a far-off place, while the garbage depot will come up nearby.”
 
 He added that the   has submitted a proposal to PMC, asking it to hand over 500m of land on the front and rear sides of the village for a ring road. We have requested the authorities to lift the land reservation by making necessary changes in the development plan.
 
 Former zilla parishad member Satish Gunjal said, “Development work has commenced in the village, but it’s slow because of the appointment of an administrator between 2012 and 2017 (after the village was merged in the PMC limits) and lack of funds. For instance, Rs 5 crore was sanctioned for development work but only Rs 1.5 crore was spent. Of this, Rs 30 lakh was used for concreting roads. The rest of the funds lapsed. We want the PMC to construct lanes and bylanes and take action against illegal constructions.”
 
 He added, “The village was formed in 1972. The gram panchayat came into existence in 2002 and used to take fast decisions for providing various services to people with limited funds. But now we are dependent on PMC.”
 
 Shiv Sena leader Tanaji Lonkar said, “Yevlewadi remained neglected even after the merger at it is tucked away in one corner of Pune city. The development also took a backseat because of a dispute between politicians over disbursement of funds and taking credit. PMC is collecting taxes, but is not providing basic amenities. We want the civic body to execute the public projects as per the development plan and take action against illegal constructions.”
 
