KOLKATA: Morning walkers at  , looking forward to breathing easy and an improved air quality index (AQI) with the rise in temperature, were let down as the PM2.5 count climbed an all-week high on Saturday. While some complained of discomfort, those with distressed lung condition went home.

 On January 20, when Kolkata’s air toxicity quotient was at its miserable worse, TOI reported that things were as bad (322microgram/m3) at Lake — the lungs of south Kolkata.
 
 
 NGO World for Better Living (WBL), which had taken the recordings then, and has been monitoring the AQI at Rabindra Sarobar over the past one week was surprised to find it at 188microgram/m3 around 7am on Saturday when the temperature was hovering between 20 and 29 degrees Celsius.
 
 “We had a premonition when the sunlight broke later today, around 6am. The instant heat contributed to high levels of air pollution, even in places where one is supposed to inhale clean and fresh air,” said environmentalist and WBL president S M Ghosh, adding, “The popular perception is that AQI is supposed to improve with the rise in the temperature level. But we found the PM2.5 count was more than 180 — 200% higher than the permissible limit of 60microgram/m3.”
 
 This means young people and those with with respiratory problems should stay away from the Lake early in the morning and avoid exertion.
 
 “When we talk about air pollution we refer to a number of different possible pollutants, all mixing up in the air. But the heat adds an additional factor, intensifying what’s known as ‘ground-level ozone’ which gets worse if the temperature rises,” said Sudakshina Gupta, CU’s head of the department of economics, that’s engaged in a number of studies related to air pollution and Kolkata’s emission scenario.
 
 Sumita Banerjee, a member of the HC-appointed monitoring committee overseeing conservation of Lake, blamed the extensive burning of leaves and the road-laying and paving activities at Rabindra Sarobar. Raja Dhar, consultant pulmonologist,  , said, “Studies indicate that longterm exposure to ozone in childhood can lead to decreased lung function as an adult.”
 
