LUCKNOW: Lucknow’s air this year is more polluted than during the same period last year, reveals an   from Central Pollution Control Board.

 Over the past 15 days, the city has been ‘severely’ polluted twice with Air Quality Index (AQI) of 400 and above, which means air quality is so bad that it affects even healthy people and seriously affects those with existing diseases. For the remaining days, AQI in the city was above 350. The average AQI of 15 days was 390 this year from January 1to 15.
 
 In comparison, last year was less polluted during the same period as pollution levels didn’t touch the severe level of 400. For the first half of the month, the AQI average was 310.
 
 AQI is the average of values of pollution levels recorded from various locations of the city.
 
 On the first day of this year, the state capital recorded a   of 332; last year, AQI was only 200 on January 1. On January 12 and 8 this year, the city was among the most polluted in the country with AQI of 411 and 400 respectively. On the same days, last year’s AQI was 288 and 304 respectively.
 
 This year, the state capital has been more polluted than even the national capital which attained the dubious distinction of being the most choking city in the country last year.
 
 “There is heavy dust load on Lucknow’s air. The city is in transition with a lot of construction activities, Metro work and smoke from brick kilns is polluting the air,” said director of air quality monitoring station of   Prof Dhruv Sen Singh. He said the city has been continuously under the ‘very poor’ and ‘severely’ polluted category on all days of this year. Thick dense fog was also responsible for high AQI.
 
 For seven days, AQI was just two or four units less than the ‘severe’ levels of 400.
 
 “There is an urgent need for remedial measures to improve Lucknow’s air. It includes halting construction, reducing automobile load on city roads and drafting a strong policy to reduce pollution levels,” said Alok Dhawan, director of Indian Institute of Toxicology Research.
 
