KOLKATA: Move over  . India’s new super chef   is here. India’s first Grandmaster’s culinary skills were on display on the rest day of the ongoing highly-competitive chess meet, featuring world’s top-10 players, in Norway.

 
 
 Anand and Chinese   Ding Liren emerged as the best chef pair in a friendly culinary contest on Thursday as the players enjoyed the break. They formed two-member teams and tried their hand at preparing a fish dish following set recipes.
 
 Although Anand will not feature in the upcoming   showdown later this year, he got the better of the two contestants --- Norwegian GM Magnus Carlsen and his challenger US GM Fabiano Caruana — in the culinary competition.
 
 At the end of the day, the Anand-Ding duo outshone others with Carlsen and US GM Wesley So finishing second and Russian GM Sergey Karjakin and Caruana placed third.
 
 Anand, a five time former world champion did most of the cooking as his partner had sustained injuries following a bicycle accident early on Thursday afternoon. The Chinese GM, who could not keep on his feet for long, however, lent a helping hand by assisting Anand. Ding’s match on Friday had to be postponed after it was discovered that he needed a surgery on his fractured hip bone.
 
 Anand appreciated Ding’s role. “My partner cut the vegetables & fish with the same precision with which he does in rook endings! He was injured but still braved all pains!” he tweeted.
 
 Although many contestants had to re-start their preparations after initially getting it wrong, Anand and Ding were on the right track in their first attempt itself. In spite of being a vegetarian, Anand prepared and served a mouthwatering dish of Halibut fillet with vegetables and hollandaise sauce.
 
 The jury members were so impressed that one of them even asked Anand: “You wanna to quit playing and come and work here (in the hotel)?”
 
 The former multiple world champion himself was happy with his show. “Sometimes I’m moving pieces, sometimes I’m cooking! And more pleasantly we won!!” he tweeted after the results were declared.
 
 When asked if he has ever won a bigger title in his life, Anand was quick to respond “Not one where the expectations were lower!”
 
 Anand also thanked wife Aruna for the support. “Was nice to have Aruna watch me and it must be true love that she ate what I made,” Anand added. Aruna too appreciated his effort. “It was delicious and very acceptable! Hollandaise is a very tricky sauce and he got the right consistency. I think he can push his cooking up from opening a box of cereals!” she was quoted on a website.
 
 
