Mysuru: In the wake of some of his detractors holding him responsible for the predicament that the   (KSOU) finds itself in, former vice-chancellor of the varsity Prof.   challenged his critics, among whom he counted former chief minister  , to a debate on the raging issue.

 Alleging that the KSOU controversy was being used to tarnish his image, Rangappa said, “No investigating agency has named me.” Rangappa, who was also V-C of the University of Mysore, is contesting the assembly elections from the Chamaraja assembly segment on a JD(S) ticket.
 
 Unhappy with Moily’s allusion to a former V-C of the varsity, Rangappa said, “Earlier, Moily congratulated me on the all-round development of KSOU. Today, he is listening to others and making these allegations against me. Let us have an open debate. I am ready to face action if allegations against me are proven true. But, if these allegations turn out to be false, then those who have pointed fingers at me must apologise.”
 
 Stating that he was willing to subject himself to a narco-analysis, Rangappa added, “Let there be an investigation of my properties. Let the government also investigate those close to Moily. The people should know everything.”
 
 Rangappa pointed out that, while the state government had ordered a CID probe into the controversy, he had not been named in the chargesheet. “Someone is trying to tarnish my image. Those who were once on the street have become crorepatis, and are running educational institutions. These things should also be investigated,” he said, promising to get KSOU re-recognised in three months if the JD(S) was voted to power in the upcoming assembly elections.
 
 “The people of Chamaraja constituency and leaders of JD(S) know the amount of knowledge I possess. I will not answer those standing on the road and making allegations against me,” said the former UoM V-C.
 
 ‘I have explosive information’
 
 I am in possession of two explosive pieces of information about the  . I will make it public at the right time. I have documents to prove that corruption occurred at KSOU, and those behind the scam.
 
 - KS Rangappa | Former Vice-Chancellor, Karnataka State Open University
 
 
