Nagpur: A gang of burglars decamped with cash Rs19.73 lakh after using gas cutters to break open two unguarded ATM machines of Bank of India (BOI) on Dongargaon-Gumgaon Road, in the jurisdiction of Hingna police station, in the early hours of Friday. Burglars had stolen around Rs10 lakh cash from the same ATM site on November 31 last year. The two ATM machines were cut open with using sophisticated gas cutters by unidentified burglars at the site in a secluded location. The ATM centre, burgled for the second time, was visited by a woman officer from Hingna police station between 2am and 2.15am as part of a routine check of the place. The burglars seem to have struck the unguarded place after she left. The closed circuit television cameras (CCTV) were not functioning. Police claimed the modus operandi and the gang’s expertise in cutting open ATM machines indicates they could hailing from Bihar or Andhra Pradesh. Interstate gang from these two states had targeted several ATM machines across the country in the last few months. Police said the gang seemed to know ATM technology and the configuration of the machines. The gang, after collecting cash from the machines, had thrown the trays outside the outlet. The cash trays were later seized by the cops. Senior PI Moreshwar Barapatre of Hingna police station said BOI management did not pay heed to his suggestions to deploy guards or even ensure CCTV cameras were in order. “The gang is likely to have seven or eight persons. They gained entry into the ATM centre after cutting open the shutter locks,” he said. “After entering the ATM centre, the gang most likely lowered the shutters again as they cut open the machines to take the cash. We also cannot rule out that some watchers may have been deployed to keep vigil on the road outside while some members operated inside,” he said. The burglary came to fore in the morning when a customer came to the centre to withdraw cash at 7am. Seeing the shutters half open and machines cut open, the customer raised an alarm and the police were summoned.