Supermodel, actor and fitness freak,   was in town for the annual   being held to spread awareness on women's health. In a candid chat with   Times, the ‘Iron Man’ spoke about women and fitness, his inspirations in life, running, what the gastronome in him loves in Vizag and more. Excerpts….

  
 
 
  In other countries, when running events are organised, women make up a majority of the participants. But in India, women make up just about 5% of the participants. I wanted to figure out why women were not running in our country and decided to create an event just for them. When we organised the first Pinkathon in Mumbai in 2012, 2000 women turned up. While the number is really low for a huge city like Mumbai, it was the energy that stood out. It was the first time women had congregated in such huge numbers for non-religious, non-ideological or non-political reasons. None of the women who came were runners but they were there to celebrate the occasion and the excitement was something we believed we could take to other cities too. The second run was held in Bengaluru, and the response was even better. The response in Vizag has been growing over the last three years. I can see ‘running’ catching up here in the future although it will take time to break the barriers down. 
 
  
 
 
  My mother, Usha Soman, is a sprightly 78-year-old who has no qualms about challenging anyone less than half her age to a push-up or plank challenge. She inspires me a lot and vice-versa. When I see her doing planks or push-ups like a pro, I don’t want to do it better than her, it’s not about that. But I am definitely inspired to do it better than the previous time.
 
  
 
 
  Gandhiji once said, ‘If you want to see a change, you must be the change’. If you want to see a fitter country, each of us must be fit. We needn’t wait for the government to start a programme to keep us fit. And it all starts with the women. If they do it, their families will do it. Understanding your mind and body is what fitness is all about. I discovered it myself when I ran my first half   in 2004. A person is capable of much more than what his weak mind thinks. The human body is incredible and you need a strong mind to test its potential. There are no limits, except what we set for ourselves.
 
  I believe it is also the joy of running that inspires women to push their limits. Last year, we had 20 non-runners running from Mumbai to Pune over a span of three days, the oldest of these women was 67. The year before that, three women who were all above 40 did the same. The pressure that women face from society and the lack of belief they sometimes hold, overcoming these obstacles and running is what’s beautiful about it all.
 
  
 
 
  I think our biggest weakness is procrastination. There are 168 hours in a week, if you eat for 3 hours and work for 8 hours every day, you will still have 13 hours left. Where did it go? You didn’t sleep or travel in those 13 hours. It’s there, you have to find it. I’m just going to start finding more time for myself. When people ask me what they need to do to stay fit, I tell them that fitness and health are different. Fitness is about evaluation, health is a bodily function. For good health, the most important thing is sleep, it’s important because we don’t pay attention to it. When we’re reasonably active, whatever we eat is fine because our body is well-equipped, but a sedentary lifestyle has to be avoided. The more we sit, the worse it is for our body. Chair and shoes are the worst invention of mankind.
 
  
 
 
  Right now I’m doing a show called I Can, You Can and it’s something I’m really pumped up about. But I’m so busy with my ventures I can’t pick up TV work even if I want to. I’m open to anything, but TV requires 20-25 days a month, time that I do not have. Chef required only four days. While I did have to work on Bajirao Mastani, on and off for about a year-and-a-half, I made time because it was something I was really interested in. I have neither a job nor a career! But yes, I don’t usually pick up work unless it excites me. 
 
  
 
 
  I like Vizag and I just love the beach road here! The other day I went to Dolphin Hill and it was fantastic. The air here is so clean. I don’t know what they do with the garbage here, we can’t see it at all. In bigger cities, it isn’t like that. Also, I love the Bobbatlu and Putarekulu I can find here, they’re just fantastic!
 
