Mumbai:   protesters on Wednesday broke the Shiv Sena’s monopoly on bringing Mumbai to a halt by virtually paralysing the city as violence broke out in mainly the suburbs, especially along the JVLR (Jogeshwari-Vikhroli Link Road), including Powai.

 Rampaging mobs damaged vehicles, blocked roads and suburban  , and intimidated shops into pulling down shutters. It was a near free-for-all as crowds indulged in stone-pelting, damaging BEST buses and several private vehicles.
 
 Schools shut and some college exams were postponed while office-goers were scared to step out and harried commuters found themselves   in trains.
 
 The Mumbai police came in for a lot of flak as citizens vented their anger at them for remaining passive bystanders instead of acting against the miscreants.
 
 A senior BJP state cabinet minister told TOI that the police was directed not to use tear gas, lathis or any physical force.
 
 On Tuesday evening when the   was declared, many people thought a Dalit protest would be restricted to a few pockets of the city and that the bandh would not disrupt life. However, most parts of the city were affected as the law-and-order machinery proved ineffectual.
 
 Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Wednesday targeted left-wing extremists and also accused Jignesh Mewani, newly elected Dalit MLA from Gujarat, Radhika Vemula, mother of Rohith Vemula, and others who visited Koregaon Bhima on Sunday. “Maharashtrians don’t want communal tension; they want development,” he said.
 
 Around 30,000 policemen including personnel from Rapid Action Force, riot control unit, State Reserve Police Force and crime branch officials were deployed all over the city. 
 
 Most of the deployment was in sensitive areas like Chembur, Ramabai Nagar in Ghatkopar, Sion Pratiksha Nagar, Vikhroli, Mulund, Sakinaka, Asalpha, Kurla, Borivli, Goregaon and Kherwadi in Bandra (east).
 
 Till late Wednesday evening, police reported stone-pelting incidents from 10 to 15 places in which more than 50 vehicles including private cars and BEST buses were damaged. A BEST spokesperson later said 90 buses were damaged. Four BEST bus drivers were injured when glass panes were shattered by miscreants.
 
 Police resorted to a mild lathi-charge when protesters tried to set ablaze a Powai police chowky situated near an Ambedkar statue near the L&T entrance on Wednesday afternoon. Twenty policemen were injured in the attack and two police bikes were burnt by the  .
 
 Late evening, Powai police registered half a dozen cases against the protesters for unlawful assembly, rioting, assault and damaging public property.
 
 Police said they would scan closed-circuit televisions (CCTV) between Powai and Vikhroli and Powai and Jogeshwari to identify rioters. Locals said maximum damage and violence occurred in Powai and in the Vikhroli-Sakinaka belt. Powai residents said protesters used paver blocks as missiles to damage vehicles and pelted stones at cops.
 
 
