SURAT:   (BDB) and   (GJEPC) have advised   to deliver diamonds and jewellery only on receiving legal documents, which includes invoice and jangadh, from senders of the goods. 

 The decision has come after Goods and Service Tax (GST) department of Mumbai seized parcels from angadias at Mumbai Central railway station and a majority of seized parcels are yet to be released. Some 125 parcels containing diamonds and gold jewellery were seized from 80 couriers of various firms at Mumbai Central railway station during the crackdown by GST and central excise officials in the first week of January. The couriers were also carrying cash to be delivered to the parties in Mumbai. 
 
 The investigation revealed that some of the parcels were genuine as the applicable duties and tax had been paid, while majority of them were found without proper papers. While the genuine parcels were released, the department seized others on which duties were not paid. 
 
 Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) represented the issue to the Union finance minister and the concerned authorities in New Delhi following the crackdown on the angadia firms. The GJEPC had received assurance that the genuine parcels seized by the department will be released. 
 
 GJEPC regional chairman Dinesh Navadiya told TOI, “After continuous follow-ups by GJEPC, the GST department has asked the owners to furnish personal bonds for the release of goods. A meeting of industry stakeholders and angadias was organized in Mumbai last week, where the angadias were told not to accept delivery of valuable goods without proper legal documents. The angadias have accepted the suggestion of the GJEPC.”
 
 Surat Angadia Association president Babu Patel said, “Angadias are working in the industry for the past many years and the entire business depends on us. We have clients who are yet to take registration, but we still used to deliver their goods in Mumbai. From now on we are not going to accept delivery of goods without proper documents.”
 
 
