BENGALURU: What does one do when the Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board ( ) ignores multiple requests to resolve a perennial sewage problem despite a note from the chief minister’s office? While many would continue to put up with the menace, nearly 40 residents of   off   decided not to take things lying down.

 Fed up with the water board’s apathy, they approached a city   claiming that the service provider had failed to deliver despite collecting a monthly fee for water supply and sanitation. The residents recently tasted victory, with the court ordering the BWSSB authorities concerned to realign and reconstruct the entire   in the area within six weeks. 
 
 Bani Mitra, a 54-year-old teacher, spearheaded the fight. “Residents of nearly 44 houses have been suffering since 2012 due to the lack of proper sewage lines. BWSSB has been regularly collecting monthly fee from all the houses but hasn’t bother to fix the problem,” lamented Mitra who’s a resident of 10th Cross, Manjunath Nagar. The area also witnesses overflowing of sewage during rain.
 
 Apart from sewage, the locality is dogged by another problem. Portions of the Vrishabhavathi stormwater drain’s (SWD) walls are in a dilapidated condition, posing a threat to adjacent houses. “We urged BWSSB authorities to find solutions to both the problems on many occasions, especially after heavy spells of rain every year, but we have got no respite for over five years now,” said Lakshmamma, a resident of 9th Cross.
 
 With local politicians and BWSSB turning a deaf ear to their pleas, the residents petitioned the CM’s office in 2013. Much to their surprise, they received a reply on June 1, 2013, directing BWSSB authorities to take necessary action. “Work began soon but our joy was short-lived as BWSSB workers abruptly left the job half done and and never returned,” said Mitra’s son Bikramadithya Udgata.
 
 Having had enough, residents signed a petition outlining the problems and Mitra decided to take the battle to the consumer court. On behalf of the residents, she lodged a complaint with the Bangalore 4th Additional District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum on March 4, 2016 against BWSSB, mainly the executive engineer of Bengaluru West based in Vijayanagar.
 
 While Mitra presented all the facts and documents pertaining to the problems through her counsel, BWSSB authorities failed to appear for the litigation that lasted over two years despite court notices.
 
 The court slammed BWSSB, saying that not appearing and presenting their version amounted to admission of the allegations. After a thorough examination of the complaint, the judges said many citizens in Manjunath Nagar had been suffering simply because of the authorities’ apathy, which was appalling given that they didn’t even act despite instructions from the CM’s office.
 
 3 weeks after ruling, work yet to begin
 
 Holding BWSSB responsible for deficiency of service after promptly collecting money from the residents since 2012, the court said the government agency was duty bound to realign, rearrange and reconstruct the sewage network. In a verdict pronounced on April 3, 2018, the consumer court ruled that the BWSSB must fix the Vrishabhavathi drain and sewage lines within six weeks. The court further ordered the authority to pay Rs 1,000 towards litigation expenses to complainant Bani Mitra. With three weeks having elapsed after the ruling and no sign of any work commencing, the residents are hoping that BWSSB will abide by the court order. 
 
 
  
  
 
