PANAJI: Following the government’s failure to explain why the Rs 180 crore collected in the district mineral foundation fund were not utilized for the welfare of mining affected villages, the high court of Bombay at Goa, on Friday, has asked it to furnish details of the accounts in which the amount has been invested.

 A division bench comprising   and Justice   also directed the government, till further orders, not to disburse any amount above Rs 2 lakh from the fund without informing the chief secretary in writing.
 
 The court passed the order in the   village case, which brought to notice that Rs 180 crore collected in the fund had not been utilized at all. The court had sought explanation from the government as to why the fund lay unutilised.
 
 “We repeatedly asked the learned additional government advocate for an explanation for such colossal neglect, but none is forthcoming. We are at loss for words to describe the apathy,” the division bench said.
 
 Coming down hard on the government, the court said the affidavit filed by the state gives no particulars about where the money has been invested. It further directed collectors of both the districts to attend meetings of district mineral foundation funds in their respective jurisdiction whenever they are held, and apprise the court of the development and decisions taken in the said committee meetings, when called upon by the court. 
 
 The high court also said that the “foundation cannot be a passive spectator, but must take a pro-active role to reach out to the needy.”
 
 Stating that no publicity whatsoever was given to fund, the court said it was necessary that wide publicity be given to the fact that the fund was available for activities mentioned under the   Rules, 2016.
 
 It directed secretaries of the fund to issue advertisements at prominent places in two English, Marathi and   dailies circulated in the state, within two weeks from the date of the order, as also put up notices in every panchayat office with directions to the respective sarpanch to spread the information. The government has been asked to repeat the advertisements monthly till July. 
 
 The court said the advertisement should specify amount of fund available, and call for applications from mining affected persons to seek benefits referred under the rules.
 
 
