MUMBAI: A 31-year-old Nalasopara resident who had a daughter through a   has approached the   seeking a   for her child without the father’s name. The single mother said she is not interested in disclosing the father’s name and does not want to be compelled to do so.

 “The child is a test tube baby. Sperms were obtained from an unknown person,” her advocate Uday Warunjikar told a bench of Justice Abhay Oka and Justice Pradeep Deshmukh. He urged the court to allow the petition to be amended to bring these facts on record.
 
 The high court subsequently directed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation ( ) to reply to her petition.
  
  
 In her petition, the woman said she is unmarried. She became pregnant and delivered a girl child in August 2016. She also said she is capable of taking care of the child. “However the petitioner wanted that the name of the child’s father should not come on record,’’ it said. She sent a notice to the BMC’s P North (ward office) which was acknowledged in December. Her petition said since there was no communication or decision from BMC she moved the  .
 
 She relied on a 2015 Supreme Court judgment which says that if a single parent/ unwed mother applies for a birth certificate for a child , the authorities may only require her to furnish an affidavit to that effect. “The judgment is binding on the respondents (BMC). However, the respondents have failed, avoided and neglected to comply with the said SC direction,’’ her petition stated.
 
 In such a situation, her petition said, there is no necessity to go to court to obtain a direction. “Independently, the petitioner submits that otherwise also she is not interested in disclosing the name of the father. The petitioner cannot be compelled to approach the court of law and get an order of non-disclosure of the name of the father. Therefore interference of the court is necessary,’’ it added.
 
 She urged to direct BMC to issue a birth certificate without the father’s name and not to “share, disclose, circulate and/or give inspection of the record about the birth” to any one.
 
 The judges directed BMC to produce the birth record register at the next hearing in March. Noting that BMC has not replied to earlier notice issued, the judges made it clear that no further time will be given to it.
 
 
