MADURAI:   and residents of Madurai city were divided over the proposed drinking water project to augment drinking water for the city by 125 Million Litres a Day (MLD) at a public meeting conducted on Friday. While farmers vehemently opposed the Rs 1140 crore project, residents demanded it to be carried out immediately.

 The major source of drinking water is Vaigai drinking water project. At present 115 MLD of water is being drawn to meet the requirement. But it is not enough to achieve the civic body’s aim of providing 135 litres per person a day. According to 2011 census, the population of the city was 14.64 lakh and it is projected to grow to 16.28 lakh in 2019. At present only 192 MLD is available, whereas the demand is 220 MLD. In 2019 the demand would be 268 MLD.
 
 An equal number of farmers and residents took part in the public hearing at the Madurai district collectorate in the presence of collector   and corporation commissioner Aneesh Sekhar. A resident and a farmer from the city,   said that the water shortage was due to the civic body’s fault. He claimed that the corporation failed to save the water bodies while 90 percent of them are being converted into concrete buildings and housing plots. It is not fair to draw the water meant for farming without taking any measures to create a new drinking water source, he said.
 
 A representative from sugarcane farmer’s association Kathiresan said that already farmers from four districts who are dependent of the Periyar water are under stress due to scant rain and poor water level in the dam, further drawing of water will only worsen their condition, he added.
 
 However, almost all the residents took part supported the project and wanted the officials to complete it as quickly as possible. They also expressed concern over the 56 new OHTs proposed under the project as many of them lie unused.
 
 Senior president of Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industries, S Rethinavelu talking on behalf of residents said that the project is indispensable to meet the growing population. Moreover, as industries are cropping up in the city, it is important to provide sufficient water to generate employment opportunity.
 
 
