AHMEDABAD: People in the kite city of   - are set to celebrate   on Sunday. The town does not celebrate its kite-flying festival on January 14, the day of  , the way the rest of the state does. It reserves its celebrations for the Sunday immediately after January 14. 

 Another reason why the ancient town's Uttarayan is different is that that entire town throngs the beach to fly kites. As the kite-flying takes place by the sea, it is called ' '.
 
 Kite-makers in Khambhat are credited with the invention of the 'cheel kite', which instantly became the most popular of all fighter kites. It is the most sought after kite among kite flyers across the state.
 
 Tapan Shukla, a local kite enthusiast, said that contrary to popular belief, Khambhat residents do not indulge in aggressive competitions while kite flying. "Unlike conventional kite flying, where the string is pulled to cut a kite, here the string is set loose to ensure the opponent's kite string is cut," he said.
 
 "Since kite flying is a tribute to the sea, people cut the string themselves and allow the kite to fly into the sea in the evening. Nobody takes their kites and manja home," Shukla said.
 
 Khambhat's Dariyai Uttarayan is popular even among kite enthusiasts from Surat, Vadodara and Ahmedabad. People from these cities join Khambhat residents to enjoy kite flying by the sea.
 
 Paresh Shah, a trader in Khambhat, said that more than 15,000 people gather on the beach. "As it is a carnival-like atmosphere during Dariyai Uttarayan, kite enthusiasts from nearby villages and towns also come to Khambhat in large numbers," Shah said.
 
 It is believed that since a large number of people in Khambhat are traditionally involved in the kite-making business, they have always been overburdened with work to meet demand till the penultimate day of Uttarayan. Hence, kite-flying festivities take place here at a later day.
 
 Currently, more than 6,000 people are engaged in making kites round the year, said Mirza Zafarali Khan, who is also associated with the business.
 
 Besides its kite-making industry, Khambhat (or Cambay) has a rich history. Celebrated for its agate and ruby business, it was once Gujarat's main port and was the first town to witness the gentleman's game, cricket. 
 
 
 
 
 History says that an East India Company team first played the game just outside the town during a stopover at Khambhat.
 
 Lieutenant Clement Downing led this fleet which consisted of company officials, sailors and some armed soldiers. Downing’s book “A Compendious History of the Indian Wars” — written in 1737, is the first reference to the gentleman’s game in India, “played here by sailors and watched by coolies”.
 
 Khambhat also boasts of exporting a eunuch slave-general to Delhi in the late 13th century, Malik Kafur. He conquered most of southern India, including Gujarat, for the Delhi Sultanate and for his emperor and lover, Allaudin Khilji.
 
 
