Arjan Singh Bhullar, the first-ever Indian-origin signee of the   ( ), had a successful debut at UFC 215 on September 9, 2017, against Luis Henrique, winning the bout by unanimous decision and is now preparing for his second against   to be held on April 14th. 

 
 
 Despite being Canadian, Bhullar is through and through Indian, and he wanted to represent his community the best way possible during his first fight by wearing a turban to the fight. Unfortunately, he wasn’t able to do that, but he has been given the go ahead to wear a turban on April 14th, which incidentally is the day India will be celebrating, Baisakhi, making it even more special for Bhullar. 
 
 TOI Sports caught up with Bhullar as he discussed the importance of wearing the turban, representing his community and what Wieczorek can expect from him come April 14th. 
 
 
  
 
 
 It will be an amazing moment for Indians and Sikhs around the world, especially since this will be happening on April 14th, Baisakhi.
 
 
 
 To Indians tuning in ... be proud, one of your own has made it. Keep supporting as I make my march to the world title. To everyone else, make sure you follow us this is going to be a fun ride. #OneBillionStrong
 
 
 
 I am doing what I have done for a long time. I have a process that I have fine tuned with years of competition at the world level, and I will be ready for whoever is across the cage on April 14th.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 We are always improving in every aspect. Physical, mental, and spiritual. This is a way of life for me, and I enjoy every step of the process. It is a never ending chase for perfection.
 
 
 
 Your first one, and your last one are naturally more special than every other fight. That being said, I have mastered my approach to training and competition. I will have the same success on April 14th. 
 
 
 
 He is fighting to survive as you’ve suggested. I am fighting to prove my dominance. I will pressure him and methodically break him down. How long he chooses to stick around before breaking, will show us what he has on the inside.
 
 
 
 Jinder and I haven’t talked about it yet, but regardless if his schedule allows him to make it or not, I know he will be a supporter of mine no matter where he is watching from.
 
 
 
 
