COIMBATORE: The district administration has sought a report from the executive officers who were posted at the   town panchayat after the   reported about the alleged involvement of panchayat officials in financial irregularities. As per a CAG audit report, the panchayat officials have spent more than Rs 1 crore every year from 2011 to 2016. 
 
 District collector T N   had told TOI that he would ask the assistant director (AD) of Othakalmandapam town panchayat to look into the scam and take action. The assistant director   told TOI that he had sought a report and he would conduct an on-field enquiry very soon into the financial irregularities of the panchayat. 
  
 “I joined only two years ago. I have asked for a report on these irregularities and will take appropriate action soon,” he said. 
  
 As per the CAG audit report sent every year to the assistant director of town panchayats, officials at the Othakalmandapam town panchayat had not produced bills and accounts for the expenditure of Rs 5 crore for five years. “For street lights maintenance alone Rs 36 lakh was spent which is five times the actual expenditure of Rs 5.5 lakh every year. For water supply maintenance and pipeline work, Rs 1.67 crore was spent for the same period even though Rs 1 crore was the revenue received from water tax for the same period. 
  
  Apart from this, bills for product purchases such as bleaching powder, phenyl and acid were not produced and Rs 50 lakh was spent on it,” said  . As per the bills in possession with TOI, the cost of various items quoted by the company to the panchayat and to TOI differed. 
  
 “A thorough probe should be carried out not just in Othakalmandapam but in all panchayats as such financial irregularities are very common,” he said. 
  
 Senior officials at the district administration however told TOI that most of these irregularities took place due to the panchayat presidents. “It is unfair to blame the officials for this as most of it was done by local politicians,” an official said. 
  
  
