KOLKATA: They were classmates and best friends who loved to do everything together. This weekend, they had planned to have a blast at another friend’s brother’s wedding. But destiny had other plans.   Bhuniya and   Banu, both 19, were mowed down by a bus at the   crossing when they were on their way back after buying sweets for the wedding.

 Biswajit and Sanjay, both residents of  , were first-year students of Bangabasi College. According to friends and locals, their exams had ended on Friday and they were excited about friend Sayan’s elder brother Saurav’s wedding.
 
 
 They were carrying rasogollas to Sayan’s place when the accident took place. “It was around 11am when they were crossing the road on a bicycle. I was returning after taking my daughter to school and the bus just took a turn and ran over them. It was a horrible sight,” said Lakhsmi  , a neighbour of the victims.
 
  
 
 “It was around 11am when they were crossing the road on a bicycle. I was returning after taking my daughter to school and the bus just took a turn and ran over them. It was a horrible sight,” Niyogi added. The entire Shantinagar locality was left stunned. Both Biswajit and Sanjay’s parents reached the accident spot, only to find them lying in a pool of blood.
 
 Biswajit’s parents Sushil and Purnima Bhuniya broke down as his lifeless body was carried back home. Many locals claimed they got beaten up by the police. Biswajit’s father was among them. “I lost my son, but the police abused us and thrashed us. What kind of justice is this?” fumed Sushil, who runs a cycle shop. His wife Purnima was not in a state to speak.
 
 Police said they had not taken any action for over two hours — between 11am and 1pm — and tried to pacify the crowd. “The police commissioner and the MLA was at the spot when they resorted to brickbatting. We were left with no other option. We had managed to push them inside Sukantanagar. But they started pelting stones from inside their houses. We were forced to enter the bylanes,” said an IPS officer from Bidhannagar police.
 
