Already hit by scanty rains last year, the king of   is making slow inroads into the Koyambedu market this summer on the back of a fear among traders over a crackdown against artificial ripening.

  
 
 The bustling fruit market at Koyambedu that used to see the arrival of nearly 100-150 tonnes of   every day now receives barely 30-80 tonnes of the fruit daily.
 
 Although the fruit began to arrive in the market in mid-March, traders say that the fear of raids over the use of ripening agents has made them wary about stocking it this summer.
 
 “The authorities are hell-bent on not allowing us to artificially ripen mangoes using calcium carbide. This has led to a decline in the fruit’s entry into the market,”
 
 the Chennai Fr tion.
 
 “In Hyderaba made ethylene ri eners are di solved in water a mangoes are the in this water to r This method is from harm. We h approached fo safety officials w a sample of ma ripened this w he said, adding th traders want this method of ripening to be since using calcium carbide is banned. However, ethylene is also forbidden under the food safety regulations.
 
 The reduced rainfall last year has led to a dip in the produce, say vendors. The cascading effect is now being seen on the prices of the fruit. However, they add that prices are likely to decrease by May.
 
 “Customers will have to wait if they want to experience the best mangoes. Banganapalle is available now but not Alphonso. The rainfall has led to fewer mangoes in the market and the rise in prices has also put off many customers. If there is an increase in demand, we would at least make some profit,” said T Rajasekhar, a fruit vendor.
 
 However, buyers are shying away from picking up ripe mangoes from store shelves. “I would prefer buying the raw ones and letting them ripen instead of eating chemicals,” said Meera C, a resident of Adyar.
 
 Dieticians say that letting the fruit ripen on its own is preferable.
 
 “Eating artificially ripened mangoes is likely to cause acidity and gastric troubles. It is better to buy them raw and then ripen them. Also, mangoes should be enjoyed only in moderation as it could lead to spiked sugar levels,” said Dr. Dharini Krishnan
 
 
