NAGPUR: The   (NU) on Monday extended the registration deadline for doctorate of philosophy (PhD) degree till 6pm on May 5. The online registration was originally scheduled between April 2 and 16, followed by submission of hard copies by April 20.

 However, the announcement came a bit late as some scholars have already decided to give up registration this year. One of the candidates told TOI that there were a lot of problems just in the application part. “Besides, it was really difficult for me to understand the logic for having a common guide and place of research. The officials were very rude with scholars though not all mistakes were ours and most of the fault lies with them,” he said.
 
  
  
 
 TOI has been consistently highlighting the harassment faced by scholars, guides and colleges, who were at the receiving end due to the skewed policies of the board of deans committee led by Pro-VC Pramod   as well as inept PhD cell officials.
 
 On October 22, TOI was the first to report about NU’s move to increase negative marking in PhD entrance test (PET) which ultimately led to abysmally low number of students qualifying for registration.
 
 On January 11, this newspaper also questioned the tight schedule for registration in the light of several anomalies being exposed from time-to-time this season. 
 
 On Monday too, the PhD cell didn’t bother to inform colleges and scholars about its decision to extend the deadline though the demand for extension had been made soon after the launch of PhD portal.
 
 Yeole, who is chairman of   (RRC), couldn’t be reached as he had left city to appear in the interview for the post of Solapur VC.
 
 Vice-chancellor SP Kane didn’t answer to TOI’s calls.
 
 On April 16, TOI had reported how Yeole’s preoccupation with the interviews for the post of Mumbai and Solapur VCs were proving consequential for NU.
 
 The clueless colleges and scholars were made to do rounds of exam section on Amravati Road and NU’s main building opposite Maharajbagh Zoo. Several colleges were yet to complete even a single registration though they had 20 seats vacant against each subject.
 
 Some of the candidates, who were made to run pillar to post by PhD cell officials, gave up on Monday.
 
