JAIPUR: In a major crackdown against money laundering in the cheating and fraud case of  , the sleuths of Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday provisionally attached movable and immovable property worth Rs 184.68 crores that belonged to some private persons including Bharat Bomb who is an Udaipur-based chartered accountant, Shankar Lal Khandelwal, Himanshu Verma and also bank officials including  , Deshraj Meena and their family members. 

  
  
 
 The attached assets included commercial establishments like hotel, real estate projects and large pieces of prime agricultural and commercial land.
 
 The banking security and fraud cell of   (CBI), New Delhi had registered an FIR on March 7, 2016 under sections 120-B (Criminal Conspiracy), 420 (Cheating), 467 (Forgery of will and security etc), 468 ( Forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (Using a genuine forged document), 472 (Making of possessing counterfeit seal etc) and 474 (Having possession of document described in section 466 or 467, knowing it to be forged and intending to use it as genuine) of IPC and section 13(2) and 13(1)(D) of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 against the officials of Syndicate Bank and private persons. 
 
 Thereafter, the zonal office of Enforcement Directorate, Jaipur initiated investigation for the offence of money-laundering by recording a case on July, 11, 2016 under provisions of Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002.
 
 “Thereafter during the investigation we had issued a provisional attachment on December, 27, 2016 of a total value of Rs 117.88 crore. It was later confirmed by the adjudicating authority, PMLA, Delhi,” said a senior officer of ED on the condition of anonymity.
 
 About the crime that actually took place, a senior officer said, “Over a period of five years from 2011 to 2016 the mastermind in this case Bharat Bomb an Udaipur-based chartered accountant in connivance with bank manager, Santosh Gupta and other officials of three Jaipur-based branches of Syndicate Bank in Malviya Nagar, MI Road and   siphoned off nearly Rs 1,055 crore through discounting of forged cheques, discounting of forged inland bills and availing overdraft facility against no existent LIC policies.”
 
 On the provisional attachment order the sleuths added that movable and immovable property worth Rs 184.68 crores was attached.
 
 Asked about the difference between provisional attachment and final attachment, an official while explaining, said, “After gathering evidences we issue provisional attachment order. Thereafter it goes to the adjudicating officer who confirms our attachment in a span of 6 months where the person or group of persons also give their point of view and stand. Usually properties provisionally attached are confirmed by the adjudicating authorities.”
 
 
