KAPURTHALA: After the shocking decline in the number of migratory and resident birds reported during the recent Asian Waterbird Census (AWC) at   wetland, environmentalist Baba Balbir Singh   has taken up the task of removing hyacinth from the water body. TOI had reported on February 22, about this decline at the wetland, which one of the 26 Ramsar Sites in India and smallest wetland out of three Ramsar Sites in Punjab.

 AWC Delhi state coordinator T K Roy, who led the census, had reported that around 90% surface area of this wetland was thickly covered by water hyacinth which degraded the wetland habitat for water birds and biodiversity. He had also said that it was possible that migratory birds might not be spotting it as a wetland even as change in global climate could also be the reason for reduction in their numbers.
 
 “We started the work on December 31, after coming to know about this report of AWC. A few years ago, Punjab government had announced to develop Kanjhli wetland as a tourist spot and some work was done also. We expected that the government would be taking care of the wetland but now we saw that almost entire wetland was covered with water hyacinth, so started the work on our own by pressing into service an excavator and a motorized boat, along with some volunteers,” said   while speaking to TOI on Friday.
 
 Already, a few hundred-feet-long stretch of the wetland has been cleared. “We shall continue working on it till the hyacinth is completely removed,” he added.
 
 Punjab Pollution Control Board chairman   and   DC Mohd Tayaab also visited the spot on Thursday. Baba Seechewal said that currently 200 cusec water was being released in the wetland and if its quantum would be increased then hyacinth would not grow in the   Bein and the wetland. “But for that the government first needs to strengthen the embankments in upstream stretch the Bein. The wetland is on the way of Kali Bein which flows further after the wetland and finally joins river Satluj.
 
 Notably, around 50% decline in total population of the birds at the site was reported during the census, conducted on January 16, as only 110 birds were spotted against 232 last year. In the 2016 AWC, total 263 birds were spotted. This year only three birds of a long distance migratory species were spotted as compared to five species spotted last year.
 
 
