MUMBAI: Roadside   as well as grocery stores have stopped handing out   to buyers even before a formal notification is issued. The prospect of being fined by civic authorities has prompted this move.

 Across Four Bungalows market and Lokhandwala Complex, streetside sellers are using newspapers to wrap perishables and non-perishables. “I had to collect onions and potatoes in newspaper before I resolved to bring a cloth bag from home,” said Vedant Vaidya who lives in Manish Nagar.
 
 Vegetable and fruit sellers on RRT Road and J N Road in Mulund West had stopped giving plastic bags to customers a couple of days ago as they feared that there could be action from BMC vigilance squads. “We heard the fine is as high as Rs 25,000 and that is a big deterrent,” said Anand Jaiswal, a vegetable vendor. “We had stopped giving plastic bags to customers although there was no official notification," he stated.
 
 Another vegetable vendor, Ramesh Singh, said he had incurred loss of business of over Rs 1,000 per day due to not giving plastic bags. “Many officergoers buy vegetables on their way home during evening hours. Many were not carrying   and we were not issuing anything in plastic, and so they went away." Vendors are, however, confident that once the rule is implemented across city, all buyers will come with cloth and jute bags.
 
 Vendors in Parel said civic authorities have been making three rounds a day to check if they are giving plastic bags to buyers. Meanwhile in Dahisar, vegetable and fruit vendors have been telling customers they would finish their existing stocks of plastic carrybags and thereafter, customers will have to carry their own cloth bags. 
 
 An egg seller on J N Road said, “We have switched to paper bags for giving eggs, and it is a good old feeling.” A potato seller said it brought back memories of 20-30 years ago when women would buy everything in one cloth bag and separate the veggies, chillies, coriander, fruits and bread, etc at home instead of having separate packets. There were unconfirmed reports of an eatery being fined Rs 4,000 for using plastic bag on Thursday, and this spread like wildfire among vendors in Mulund.
 
 Plastic glasses are also out from sugarcane juice vendors. “People who used to demand the juice in plastic glasses are no longer drinking sugarcane juice as they can see that we are serving in glass and then merely washing the glasses with water and serving other people. Many think that is unhygienic and go away,” said Ramu Bhoir, a sugarcane juice vendor in Bandra.
 
 Vendors at Malad are using newspapers to pack vegetables and fruits. A few regular customers get lucky as vendors pull out plastic bags kept hidden away.
 
 A vendor Anto Singh from Malad market said that they have been threatened with a hefty fine if caught with plastic bags. He said that very soon cloth bags would be available in the market for sale.
 
 
