

 MUMBAI: After two years of labouring on his master’s in social work, 23-year-old Ajeet Shekhar went up on stage and refused to accept his degree during the annual convocation at the   ( ) on Monday. 
 
 Shekhar returned his degree as a mark of solidarity with the beneficiaries of the   (GOI-PMS) who are being asked to pay higher fees. 
 
 Ajeet Shekhar completed his MA in social work in Dalit and   from TISS’s School of Social Work. Instead of collecting his degree from the dais, he conveyed his concerns and message to chairman S Ramadorai, before handing over his degree and walking off the stage. 
 
 “My gesture was to protest the upfront payment of high fees from students belonging to the marginalized communities,” he told TOI. It has been 75 days since the protests over the GOI-PMS issue started after the administration could not fulfil the students’ demands. Shekhar was not alone in his protest. 
 
 Another 15 students who graduating on Monday were seen sporting ‘#injusTISS’ badges during the convocation. Students said that until now, the housing and diser to the government and chairman of scientific advisory council to the cabinet. 
 
 A graduating student told TOI: “Almost all of us are silently in solidarity with the cause.” Some students claimed that they were asked to remove the protest badges during the convocation. Ramadorai, who is the chairman of the governing board of TISS, reminded the students in his address that “the management and faculty are trying to do all they can to offer students best opportunities with their limited resources”. 
 
 Deputy director (research) Surinder Jaiswal too remarked that she was “not certain whether the convocation would be conducted”. Despite threats to stop the convocation, the students’ general body meeting on May 6 decided not to disrupt the event, keeping in mind the sentiments of the graduating students. Notwithstanding the students’ promise of peaceful protest, a large posse of police personnel was deployed on the campus.
 
