The violence that erupted at Koregaon Bhima near Pune on Monday has spread to other parts of the state, including  , where police had to fire in the air and burst tear gas shells to disperse the mob that was forcing business establishments to down their shutters. 

 The police also had to resort to lathi charge at various places to check the mob from indulging in violence. Shops and business establishments in Aurangabad downed their shutters to avoid untoward eventuality while streets wore a deserted look.
 
 The police were on their toes to ensure peace and law and order. The police have issued prohibitory orders banning gathering of more than four people at public place under section 144.
 
 Meanwhile, an alert resident averted a major mishap by tipping off the police about some miscreants throwing burning tyres on the railway track that passes through the area closer to  .
 
 The police immediately rushed to the spot and braving stone-pelting miscreants removed the tyers from the track and dispersed the mob. "We had to burst teargas shells to disperse the mob from the railway track," deputy commissioner of police   told TOI. 
 
 She added that track has been cleared and several people have been detained, adding that the police had to fire in the air in   and Ranjangaon near   to disperse the mob. 
 
 Earlier, miscreants roamed around the city and damaged several vehicles. A car, parked outside a private hospital in Laxman Chowdi area, was set on fire by a few protesters. 
 
 The police had to focus on areas like Osmanpura, Peer Bazaar, Eknathnagar, Ramangar, Jawahar Colony, Cidco TV centre, Ranjangaon along with several other places in order to bring situation under control.
 
 "In Beed, the mobs damaged private and MSRTC buses. Business establishments and other institutions also downed their shutters," S A Khiradkar, the deputy superintendent of police, said, adding that the situation is now under control and peaceful.
 
 In Jalna, tension prevailed for some time and shopkeepers downed shutters for a while. 
 
 
