KOLKATA: Pollutants hung heavy in the ambient air of the city and refused to dissipate even in the evening when the ambient air tends to get cleaner. Throughout Sunday, according to   nsulate air-quality monitoring station, the air was hazardous (301-500 µg/m3) with the PM2.5 count of city’s air remaining above the 400-mark for too long. Health experts raised alarm against prolonged outdoor activities.

 On Sunday, Delhi’s air could not match Kolkata’s, where air quality degenerated sharply compared to that of the Capital. Delhi’s air oscillated between unhealthy (151-200) and very unhealthy (201-300). The Capital is considered to be one of the most polluted cities in the world. Kolkatans woke up to a hazy morning on Sunday with a thick layer of smog hanging low in the atmosphere of the city, bringing down the visibility below 800m.
 
 A high influx of moisture in the air (88% humidity) trapped the particulate matters in the lower level of the atmosphere without allowing them to escape, said an   official. From 7am to 4pm, the air mostly remained above 400-mark, which is seven times higher than the permissible limit.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Smog consists of harmful particulate matters, mostly carbon, polycyclic acetyl hydrocarbons, water vapour and sometimes lead and sulphur dioxide, due to high vehicular pollution. With the ground radiating heat faster in winter, the cooler and heavier air hangs low, trapping particulate matters that can’t escape the dense haze. Smog starts forming after 8pm and turns densest between 3am and 4am. It lasts till about 8am the next day, provided sun rays dissipate it. But on Sunday the haze refused to dissipate throughout the day.
 
 The US consulate reading, which has thrown up Kolkata as the most polluted city in India, has also sounded an alert from the   (WHO) — Kolkata’s severe air pollution poses serious health risks, with suspended particulate matter emerging as the main health threat. The WHO health advisory has suggested against long-term exposure to pollutants to avoid serious health hazards.
 
 “Unfortunately, pollution is not on anyone’s agenda here. There will be no action till the court intervenes,” said green activist  .
 
 
  
 
