NAGPUR: The case against  , incumbent deputy director of town planning (DDTP) of Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT), is becoming murkier by the day. Not only no action was taken against her even after being chargesheeted on January 7, 2011, now it emerges that the chargesheet itself has gone missing.

 As assistant director town planning, Aloni was chargesheeted on six counts by then NIT chairman  . Some of the charges included causing monetary loss to the NIT due to submission of wrong opinion. Mukherjee had clearly stated that disciplinary action should be taken against her as she had violated Section 3 of the   (Conduct) Rules, 1979. However, no action was initiated in the last seven years. Interestingly, Aloni was promoted to the post of deputy director of town planning despite being chargesheeted.
 
 TOI had handed over a copy of the ‘missing’ chargesheet to incumbent chairman   on December 13, 2017. He had promised to look into the matter but did nothing.   corporator Bunty Shelke along with his supporters staged an agitation against Mhaisekar on Thursday. Mhaisekar then woke up from his deep slumber and asked NIT general manager   to conduct an enquiry into the missing document. He also asked Ramteke to lodge a police complaint.
 
 Ramteke told TOI on Friday, “The chargesheet had gone missing from superintending engineer (SE) section. I will ask the SE to lodge a police complaint.”
 
 The first case against Aloni pertains to wrong opinion given to the NIT regarding release of public utility plots in mouza Jaripatka, which caused financial loss to the NIT. The public utility lands in the layout were to be handed over to the NIT. If this was not possible, the layout developer was to pay a sum equivalent to the cost of the land to the NIT. Even though this had not happened in this case, Aloni recommended that the plots be released.
 
 Another case involved NIT's land in mouza Chikhli (Deosthan). NIT had planned to create residential and commercial space on this land. However, the use of this land in the city development plan (CDP) was industrial. NIT chairman has the powers to change the use of land but Aloni advised the chairman to go for public hearing. By the time the chairman realized that this was not required, NIT’s time and money had been lost. There were four more cases including submitting wrong opinion to the director of town planning in case of Hotel Pride.
 
 
