Nagpur: The book keeping and accounts paper of ongoing HSC board exam turned out to be a tough one according to the students, though the teachers did not agree.

 Accounts is deemed to be the toughest subject of commerce stream and requires a lot of practice. Some students complained about lack of time, while some had a hard time interpreting the questions.
 
 However, experts had a different opinion. Bhavana Gattuwar, vice-principal of GS College of Commerce and Economics who also teaches accounts, found the paper very well constructed and scoring. “The paper was not at all difficult and students who had practiced throughout the year would score good marks. The MCQ section was a bit tricky, but the rest of the questions were straightforward. None of the difficult adjustments were asked and not much brainstorming was required,” she said.
 
 The students had done a lot of practice by appearing for the mock test series. Commerce student Palak Rathi said, “I had solved many sample question papers as advised by the teachers. But I still could not finish the paper on time due to lack of time management. Bills of quantities was the most difficult section and the choices were confusing too.”
 
 Umesh Patil also emphasized on the tricky set of questions. “There were a lot of options which made the paper easier. But they were asked in a very confusing way and I spent a lot of time in deciphering the questions. I found the paper difficult than the mock test series I had appeared for,” he said.
 
 The exhaustive question paper left many students scrambling for marks as they found the objective section tough. “Students don’t generally pay attention to optional chapters, and this year the objective section was solely based on those topics. The MCQs were the only confusing part in the entire paper, and students might have had difficulty placing the questions,” Gattuwar said.
 
 Student Tanany Kuril said, “Only regular practice and time management can help in cracking this subject. I found the final accounts section the toughest in the paper. It was time consuming as well.”
 
 Janvi Shende and Rani Sheik were also left with little time to finish their papers. “I did not expect the paper to be so comprehensive. I was struggling to tally my answers,” Sheik said.
 
 Paper rating
 
 Toughness: Medium
 
 Questions’ relevance: Straightforward
 
 Length: Lengthy
 
 
