NAGPUR: Bus commuters are set to face problems from Tuesday due to the strike by drivers and conductors of city’s three red bus operators. The staff, belonging to the Shiv Sena-affiliated Bharatiya Kamgar   Nagpur Union, is demanding payment of minimum wages.

 Currently, the civic body through — three red and one green operator — plies 375 buses (including 25 ethanol buses). The strike will affect students the most. Over 1.6 lakh people commute daily in buses, of whom 28,000 are students.
 
 The office-bearers of the union claimed they are firm on the strike, but   transport department officials and representatives of three red bus operators met deputy commissioner of police (special branch)   on Monday. Mayor Nanda Jichkar said the civic body was trying hard to convince the bus employees, and there will be no disturbance in city bus operations.
 
 Apart from minimum wages, the drivers and conductors are demanding inquiry committees in all bus operators and conductors’ agencies, and induction of all employees from ousted city bus operator Vansh Nimay Infraprojects. They also want all employees of all operators to be recruited on permanent basis, since NMC is operating the city bus service.
 
 The department has sought protection from the agitating employees. As a precautionary measure, the city will deploy police force outside four depots — Hingna, Khapri, Patwardhan Ground, and Zero Mile. Besides, police will keep vigil at   bus stop. 
 
 A senior NMC official said police protection has been sought to avoid any damage to public property, especially buses. The department has also instructed operators to move all buses from the depots. “If needed, in case of a strike, bus service will be provided free of cost to commuters,” NMC has told bus operators.
 
 Speaking to a delegation of union members, DCP Patil said they should not prevent any driver or conductor wishing to continue duties on Tuesday. “Any use of force to stop bus services will face action,” she said.
 
 She also tried to convince the union against the strike, as students are to appear for HSC exam from February 21. The union responded they had been pursuing their demands since January 19 with the transport department, and municipal commissioner  . “They ignored our genuine demands,” said union secretary Ambadas Shende.
 
 Meanwhile, Delhi Integrated Multi-modal Transit System Limited (DIMTS) — the firm entrusted with monitoring city bus operations — has also written a letter to DCP (SB) seeking police protections at all major bus depots and stops like Mor Bhavan, Maharajbagh, Dhiran Kanya and  , from where city buses run on 123 routes and destinations.
 
 Sena claims to have a major following among drivers and conductors, and expressed confidence the strike will paralyse services. Former corporator and Shiv Sena leader Bandu Talvekar claimed, “We will not take law into our hands but strike peacefully.” Former MP   and Talvekar will led the strike.
 
 
