KOLKATA: Failing to convince a section of residents of insecure buildings to move out, the   has decided to issue an express notice, directing them to vacate the houses immediately so that the most vulnerable structures can be razed without delay.

 
 The   buildings department recently approached municipal commissioner   to use his special powers to issue the express order for the demolition of the dangerous buildings. Under Section 404 of the KMC Building Rules, the municipal commissioner under special circumstances can exercise his powers to ask inmates of insecure buildings to vacate the structures for public and their safety.
 
 But the reluctant residents made it clear that they would not move out of their shelters. “We know we are under threat owing to the structural instability of the buildings. But it is impossible for us to vacate the house as we have nowhere else to go. So we have decided to stay put, come what may,” said a septuagenarian living at one of the dilapidated houses on Lenin Sarani, listed on the KMC buildings department for demolition.
 
  
  
 
 Top officials of the KMC buildings department have already sought Ahmed’s permission for the demolition of around a dozen buildings located within a 2.5km radius of the civic body headquarters on S N Banerjee Road. This is not all. Assured of the municipal commissioner’s cooperation, the buildings department has written to senior police officers at the Kolkata Police headquarters, seeking assistance for the protection of the civic employees.
 
 A demolition squad was being readied for the special operation, which might begin from May 30, said a KMC building department official.
 
 According to sources in the buildings department, these extremely vulnerable buildings are located on Rani Rashmoni Road, S N Banerjee Road, Lenin Sarani and B B Ganguli Street. “We had identified these buildings after multiple insecure structures collapsed in the past two years. Despite our repeated attempts to vacate the inmates, a section of them put up resistance and refused to move out of the dilapidated houses. We have no option but to issue an express order to save the lives of the residents as well as that of the public,” said a KMC buildings department official. “We have made an elaborate arrangement for demolition of these buildings, which will begin next Wednesday and will continue for more than a week, subject to approval from the Kolkata Police top brass.”
 
 According to a senior official from the department, the civic body had earmarked over 100 buildings across the city as Grade-1 dilapidated buildings, which need to be pulled down without delay. These are among the 1,500 houses, which have been declared as unsafe.
 
