Arun Menon, an associate professor at IIT-Madras and an expert in structural engineering, is part of the 12-member committee formed to study the damage in the fire-ravaged Veera Vasantharayar Mandapam of Meenakshi Amman Temple as well as its restoration. In an interview to Devanathan V of The Times of India, he explains the methods to be used to study the extent to which the stones of the mandapam suffered damage. 

 Q: What is your assessment of the Veera Vasantharayar Mandapam from your visits?
 
 In our assessment, more than one-third of the mandapam is quite extensively damaged. In fact, the damage is not just in the ceiling but even in some of the columns. Since its stability is affected, propping is done for the entire structure. 
 
 What are your suggestions and advice for restoration of the damaged area? Do you think it should be pulled down as being suggested?
 
 It is premature to talk about restoration. We are currently concentrating on salvaging it so that further damage can be ruled out. Thorough investigation of the condition has to be carried out. We have no idea whether that (pulling down the mandapam) should be done at this stage. Every part of the mandapam should be accessible safely to take a visual inspection. Whether it (mandapam) should be retained and restored or replaced, has to be decided later. 
 
 Using modern techniques of structural strengthening, is it possible to save the old structure?
 
 Everything is possible in engineering. We can put concrete and enclose the whole structure. But, that is not acceptable as it is a heritage structure. Standard methods that one would use for the regular buildings for repair and structuring cannot be used for historical structures. We have to think of other strategies which are compatible with the typology and the materials used in the historical structure. 
 
 Can the restoration help retain the structure’s old charm?
 
 As I said, modern methods cannot be tried to repair and strengthen the historical monument. While strengthening we have to ensure that the aesthetic quality of the original stone and typology are not altered. We have to retain the characteristics of the original structure as much as possible. But what is important is that it must be safe for the use of the people. On the one hand there is structural safety that we have to take care of and on the other hand we have to ensure that the structure does not lose its historical aesthetic value. It is a challenging situation.
 
 How can technology play a role in studying the damage and restoration?
 
 First we have to thoroughly study before commenting on the restoration, as I said earlier. Techniques like Nondestructive Testing can be used to try and understand the extent to which the stone is damaged. We have to take samples. Microscopic evaluation can also be done to get information on how the structure withstood the fire. 
 
 
