KOLKATA:   ( ) has decided to increase the number of undergraduate engineering seats to 1,273 this session from 1,137 in 2017-2018 academic year. The seat hike will be under the reserved OBC category. Also, around 5% of the increased seats will be under the total fee waiver quota. All reserved seats that will remain vacant will be deserved and made available for general students.

  
  
 
 “More students will get an opportunity and can avail quality education at JU. Amid the poor employment scenario, those passing out from branded institute like JU will get a stand a better chance,” said  , professor of construction engineering department.
 
 However, there is a concern as well. “When seats are being increased, proper infrastructure needs to be developed and existing ones need to be improved. The physical infrastructure, teacher-students ratio plays a vital role in a technology institute. Class, laboratories, equipment, maintenance will get affected with increasing number of students. Once the intake increases, its an opportunity on one side and is also a challenge on the other to maintain academic standard to excel further,” added Biswas. The university has decided to revamp placement cell and business incubation activities to accommodate more students. The class size will also play a very important role, he added.
 
 “We are increasing laboratory instruments. However, faculty shortage remains a concern. Guest lecturers and contractual teachers will not be sufficient. Remedial coaching has been proposed for first-year students only for those finding it difficult to grasp the subjects. Internship will be extended from six to eight weeks,” an official said.
 
 The engineering faculty has proposed to divide first-year students into two sets. “Classes will be structured in such a way that one set of students will be taught eight subjects and the second set will be given lectures on eight completely different subjects. From the second semester, it will be opposite,” another teacher explained.
 
 “Last year, the university was caught in a dilemma after a few reserved seats in engineering remained vacant. This year, we will ensure that all vacant reserved seats are de-reserved at the right time to ensure no vacancies,” said JU vice-chancellor Suranjan Das said.
 
