MUMBAI: An Air India   has accused a senior airline official of sexually harassing her for the past six years and alleged that the airline management did not act on her complaint filed nine months ago in September 2017. 

 She also took to social media to seek “help” on Tuesday to get the airline to act. 
 
 Following this,   minister   tweeted that he has asked the AI chairman “to immediately address this issue. If necessary, will appoint another committee”.
 
 In a complaint sent to Prabhu on May 25, the “proud single mother” alleged that over the past six years, a senior executive “has sexually harassed, tortured and discriminated against me… This senior executive (whose name will be revealed when I meet you) is a predator and has sexually… abused me… and has tried to compel women in his office (including me) to come and drink with him at various bars and many of us have been forced to do so… He has insulted and denied me positions and privileges after I rejected his advances… He has made my life a misery and work and continues to do so.”
 
 The airhostess further alleged that she complained to the airline management last September and wrote to the then chairman but no action was taken. “I used the internal processes because I did not want to attract publicity or attention… But six years of torture and nine months of tortuous delay and coverups have left me frustrated. When no action (from AI) was forthcoming, rather than filing an FIR, I appealed to the ministry who ensured that AI women’s sexual harassment committee heard the case,” she wrote in her complaint letter to the   while alleging that “other women have been through this with the same senior executive”.
 
 “Sadly the AI women’s cell did nothing… During the mockery of inquiry… the lady chairperson of the committee had to temerity to respond ‘you know how he talks. He has even flirted with me like this so many times’.”
 
 “In any other company, this offending officer would either have been suspended or transferred out. Yet in AI, through his old boys’ club, (he) has continued to serve in the same office,” she said in her letter to Prabhu, which was also marked to Prime Minister  , and sought a meeting with the minister.
 
 
