CHANDIGARH: The cash-strapped   government would prefer to be a   than a tenant. The   has written to all department heads, deputy commissioners and district and sessions judges that while sending their budget proposals for the year, they should not include rent of private buildings. Departments operating out of rented buildings have already been told to shift to the nearest government building. 

 The move is aimed at saving around Rs 40 crore every month. Though most departments have already shifted to government structures, there are many that continue to operate from private buildings for lack of space.
 
 The state government had found that a number of government buildings were underutilised even as it was paying hefty rents. Officials also said that in some districts of the state, the rent was going to politically influential people.
 
 The finance department has now written to all departments that if the rent of a private building is included in the budget proposal, it should also include the finance department's letter, permitting it to hire the private building.
 
 Kripa Shankar Saroj, secretary of the general administration department, said, "We could not shift 10-12 departments in Chandigarh and   to government buildings in the last around four months for lack of space."
 
 Finance dept approval must for renting private building
 
 There are around 25 departments which are yet to be shifted to government buildings and the rent of some of these offices is over Rs 1 lakh every month. The finance department has been approached for approval to allow them to function from private buildings till government accommodation is available.
 
 Many private building owners had even moved court alleging that the departments, including the police, had encroached on their buildings. Till last year, the state government was paying lakhs as rent for around 30 private buildings for which the landlords had moved court.
 
 Saroj said the state government is coming up with more government buildings in Mohali to accommodate departments. One such under-construction building is of the Punjab vigilance bureau. Other departments still on rent are social welfare and office of the DGP (jails) and information technology department.
 
 
 
