Mangaluru: Citing instances of untoward incidents during funeral processions in the past, the Mangaluru city police have denied permission for funeral procession of Deepak Rao, who was hacked to death on Wednesday.  Meanwhile, police have clamped prohibitory orders under Section 35 of Karnataka Police Act in the entire commissionerate limit till Thursday 10pm. According to sources, the members of BJP and other right wing organisations had asked city police commissioner T R Suresh for permission to take out a funeral procession from AJ Hospital to Katipalla, a 15km stretch on the national highway. However, the latter denied the permission considering that procession may lead to a law and order problem like in the past and result in a communal violence.  It may be recalled that stone pelting incident was reported during the funeral procession of RSS worker Sharath Madivala, who was hacked to death in July. This had led to the arrest of several leaders of right-wing organization.  Even in 2006, the murder of Sukhananda Shetty, Moodabidri BJP unit general secretary and Mulki Town Panchayat member, had sparked off violence in Mulki town and two people were killed and a couple were injured when police opened fire to quell the mob which attacked the police station. The funeral procession was taken on the highway and the trouble started when the procession moved very slowly as hundreds of bikes and cars accompanying the van carrying Shetty’s body.  Meanwhile home minister Ramalinga Reddy has asked ADGP Kamal Pant to be in Mangaluru and monitor the situation. Police have deployed KSRP and other personnel at strategic places in the city limits to prevent any untoward incidnts. What is KP Act The act will not allow people to carry or transport weapons, knives, pistols, lathis or any other type of equipment that may be used for assault. The act also prevents people from carrying explosives, parading effigies, shouting slogans, delivering speeches that may trigger crime or pose threat to national security. Using posters and pictures or any other materials that may instigate crime also has been prohibited during the period.