GURUGRAM; Three villagers, including two women, were   with their   on the foothills of Aravalis near Bhondsi on Tuesday morning.

 Police suspect the involvement of a fourth person, the husband of one of the two women killed, who is currently missing, in the triple murder. Cops also hint at an illicit relationship being the trigger behind the killings.
 
 Post-mortem reports suggest all the three were attacked with a sharp weapon, ruling out rumours of a man-eater being on the prowl in the vicinity. But the murder weapon was not found on the spot.
 
 “There was no animal-inflicted injury on the bodies. They died due to injuries caused by a sharp weapon on their throats,” Dr Deepak Mathur, who conducted the postmortems, told TOI.
 
 According to residents of Ghamroj village, the four — Lakhan (32), his wife Sheela (30), Komal Bai (38) and her husband Raju (40) — had gone to collect firewood from jungles near the Aravali hills on Monday afternoon. When they didn’t return till late night, Lakhan’s two daughters — one six years old and the other eight years old — started crying, raising an alarm that alerted their neighbours. Eventually, the entire village came to know about the two missing couples.
 
 After waiting through the night, some villagers went to the jungles early on Tuesday and eventually stumbled upon Lakhan, Sheela and Komal’s bodies even as Raju was missing.
 
 Both the couples are all originally from Panna district of Madhya Pradesh. The two families moved into rented houses at Ghamroj near Bhondsi after Lakhan and Raju started working as masons in the city.
 
 “We all are in shock. The two couples came to this village together six months ago. They were neighbours here,” said Teeka Ram, a villager.
 
 Based on the complaint filed by Kalicharan, the brother-in-law of Lakhan, an FIR has been registered against unidentified men under sections 302 (murder), 201 (hiding evidence), 346 (wrongful confinement) of the IPC at Bhondsi police station.
 
 Police said three teams had been formed to probe the matter and nab Raju, who is still missing. Police have also picked up two relatives of the suspect for questioning.
 
 “Raju is the prime suspect and we are trying to trace him first. His mobile phone location suggests he was in Mewat area last night. After that he switched off the cellphone. Rumours of an illicit relationship are also being probed,” said Ashok Bakshi, DCP (south).
 
 Police have handed over the bodies to relatives after the post-mortems.
 
 According to a theory put forward by police sources, Raju was in a relationship with Lakhan’s wife Sheela. On Monday, Raju and Lakhan had gone to the jungles where they had a fight. Circumstantial evidence hints at scuffles. As per the police theory, Raju first murdered Lakhan. But, probably Sheela saw it and thus he murdered her also. Source said there were scratches all over Komal’s body, which suggested she too had a scuffle with her husband Raju before she was killed.
 
 
