NOIDA: Step by Step school held classes for the first time on Monday since last Thursday’s ‘food poisoning’ episode, and wrote to the district magistrate to clear the air amid a standoff with police and administration officials who have accused the reputable institution of non-cooperation.

 “We understand that certain officials have complained of being denied access to the school premises. In this regard, we wish to convey our regret of such perception. The school has not, and shall never, hinder any authority or public official in the discharge of his/her duties,” the school management said in a two-page letter to BN Singh.
 
 After officials waited for hours for access to the school premises on the afternoon and evening of April 5 — the day students threw up, complained of stomach ache and loose motion — an FIR was filed against the school at the expressway police station in Noida under section 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from duty), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 328 (causing hurt by means of poison), based on a complaint filed by city magistrate  , who was among those who had to wait for access.
 
 The school admitted that in the last 10 years of its operation, it had never faced an incident of such magnitude and misfortune. “The incident took everyone by surprise and required full attention to the students who were everyone’s concern and first priority. This may have caused inadvertent delay and led to the perception that the school denied access. The misunderstanding is unfortunate and the school profusely and unconditionally apologises for the same. We assure full cooperation with the administration and authorities in all respect,” it said.
 
 In the letter, the school also outlined the sequence of events on April 5, saying some students were initially brought to the infirmary with symptoms of nausea, vomiting and stomach ache. “The school provided first-level treatment to such students. Soon, thereafter, the number of students with similar symptoms increased. The school promptly called   for medical assistance. The hospital sent a team of doctors, paramedics, and nurses along with two ambulances to the school,” it wrote in the letter, adding parents of the affected students were also informed.
 
 According to parents and health department officials, around 150 students were affected after eating meals, with the symptoms manifesting in several kids the next day. Around 90 children were treated at various private hospitals in Noida and Delhi. The school’s meals are prepared and served by  , whose services it suspended on Thursday itself.
 
 The school’s letter to the DM did not specify how many students were affected or what they had eaten that might have led to them falling ill. The food department found only ajwain and edible oil in the school’s pantry during its inspection. It said it found none of the prepared food, not even in the dustbins. The school had said in an email to parents that it shared samples of food and water for tests. Asked about it on Monday, Noida’s food safety and drug administration officer   maintained only ajwain and oil samples had been found at the school.
 
 Police said they were talking to students and parents on the issue. They have also written to the school, asking it to state the exact number of students affected by the meals. District Magistrate Singh said the probe will continue.
 
 
