HYDERABAD: The Telangana Disaster Response and Fire Services Department’s recent audit has revealed several lacunae in the fire fighting system at the   building in   in the city which houses valuable manuscripts and records about Bhamani, Quli Qutb Shah and Nizam era.

 Fire extinguishers with an expired date, fire alarm system not in working condition and thousands of records stacked in large racks are some of the critical violations that have been recorded during the audit indicating that in case of fire in the archives building, the historical treasure trove will turn into ashes.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 C Lakshmi Prasad, director (full additional charge) of the fire department, told TOI, “During the fire audit, we found that extinguishers were not in working condition. We suggested to the State Archives officials to go for smaller racks to keep the records so that in case of fire, it will be at least restricted to that portion. Now, there are big racks with continuous rows and columns of manuscripts and records”.
 
 ‘More funds needed for implementation’
 
 “As water can’t be used in case of fire in the archives department, we suggested that they buy oxygen reducing dry extinguishers. We were told the department is taking measures as per recommendations,” said Lakshmi Prasad.
 
 The Telangana   is a Schedule 10 department and is yet to be bifurcated and hosts the records of AP too. Though most files are digitised or microfilmed, the original documents are at stake in case of a fire.
 
 However, the department is facing a severe fund crunch to implement all the recommendations. S  , assistant director of State Archives Department, told TOI, “Based on the recommendations of the fire department two days ago, the government issued an e-tender for procuring equipment needed to upgrade firefighting capabilities. The tender is about supply, delivery and installation of CC cameras, aerosol suppression system and ceiling mounted automatic fire extinguisher with 5 kg capacity. We have written to the government for more funds,” He added, “It is not that all there were no fire extinguishers. Based on request of the principal secretary of archives department, fire officials came and audited.”
 
 Mahesh Reddy said, “There are around 50 million records. Among them is the 2nd oldest paper with manuscript belonging to Bahmanis of 1406 AD.”
 
