NAGPUR: Taking a big leap in promoting conventional energy sources, the   ( ) has decided to generate 883 kilowatts peak (kwp) energy by installing   at 18 stations and service buildings.

 “We have executed a power purchase agreement (PPA) with   for installation of rooftop solar power plants costing Rs 5.74 crore. It will improve reliability of power supply and will conserve conventional energy,” said divisional railway manager (DRM) Amit Kumar Agarwal.
 
 “The average saving works out to be Rs 67.3 lakh per year and the average cost of installation for 1kwp plant comes to Rs 65,000,” Agarwal added.
 
 Taking to yet another source of energy saving, 18 stations have been provided 100% LED fittings during the current year. The work to replace existing conventional lighting with LED was completed at 60 stations in 2016-17 by spending Rs 44.93 lakh.
 
 Officials said SECR could save around 1,97,297 units and Rs 17.68 lakh per annum. Another 58 stations are under gauge conversion and LED fittings will be provided by the electrical construction department.
 
 All the class A stations are being provided various LED fittings along with super energy efficient air-conditioners and ceiling fans. Officials said the work is being executed by Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL), a joint venture of PSUs under the ministry of power, with an estimated cost of Rs 87.85 lakh. “The amount will be repaid in 5 years in equal instalments,” they said.
 
 Agarwal said now over 39 stations are proposed for 100% LED conversion through EESL at an estimated cost of Rs1.41 crore. The proposed work includes provision of 3,046 various LED light fittings, super energy efficient ACs and 833 ceiling fans.
 
 Not only tapping rooftop solar energy, the SECR’s signalling & telecommunication department is also going for solar-powered signals in a big way. Today, almost the entire machinery and locomotive are supported by conventional energy sources like diesel and electricity.
 
 Recognizing how deep an impact the growing power consumption the system can make on the environment, the SECR has started use of alternative renewable sources of energy for producing another 60kwp power. The S&T department has widely introduced the use of this non-conventional power source for driving its equipment at the newly commissioned broad gauge stations in   and Jabalpur-Ainpur section.
 
 
