KEEZHATTUR: ‘Betrayed’ and left alone in the cold during the days of struggle,   of Keezhattur in Kannur, now feel they are running into a stonewall.

 Yet, the fire in them—ignited by an organization that boasts of a glorious past of proletarian struggle, sweat and blood—rages against the might of the same outfit, the  .
 
 “Our struggle may fail but the issue we raised will remain,” Manoharan C, an activist of Vayalkilikal, did not hide the tinge of sadness and insecurity in his voice.
 
 Vayalkilikal know the consequences of inviting the CPM’s wrath, because they know several examples of how the organization had quelled dissent in the past. Torn between the loyalty to the party and the need to protect their land, the agitators are further hit as the numbers in their fold dwindles.
 
 But the ordinary men and women, leading a peaceful life till the other day, have decided to stay put and face the consequences for challenging the might of a party that normally crushes the feeblest voice of dissent.
 
 “I’m 68 now, and the only political party that I have associated with and voted for till the last Assembly election was the CPM, because we all grew up with the party, and we wanted it to remain strong for people like us. But today, if you ask me whom will I vote for the next time, I am not sure,” said 
  a farmworker and activist in the forefront of the agitation against the proposed   bypass that bisects their paddy fields.
 
 People like Janaki are in a fix after the party turned down their plea to protect their livelihood and the water resources which need to be preserved for the future generations.
 
 “We lived harmoniously and worked for the party, but we are saddened to see the changes in the party. We cannot leave the party or our land, but they don’t understand our pain. This is our party, but it is changing beyond our comprehension and getting intolerant towards us,” she said.
 
 Ever since the residents of Keezhattur started their agitation against the bypass, defying the party diktats, this has been the confusion haunting the residents.
 
 Before the election, the   manifesto said paddy fields across the state would be declared as ‘protected areas’, and ensure watershedbased planning for agricultural progress. “The CPM is now distancing from the promises, and there is every reason to believe that some real estate interests are at play,” said Manoharan.
 
 “Keezhattur and surrounding places are the water reservoir of the entire locality including Thaliparamba town. If the paddy fields are filled and the hills around are razed for landfilling, all these resources will be drained. But those who call us ‘vultures’ fail to understand this reality,” he said.
 
 CPM leader and public works minister   had recently termed the protesters “vultures.”
 
 Party loyalty has been preventing Vayalkilikal accepting the BJP’s offer that if they cross floors to the pro-Hindutva party, it would help in getting the alignment of the bypass changed. But it is something unthinkable for the Vayalkilikal to seek the support from a party they detested most and fought tooth and nail in Kannur.
 
 “CPM is the party with which we grew up. But the intolerant stand it takes will not only ruin our environment, but the party itself and by the time they realize it, things would be beyond redemption,” Manoharan warned.
 
 “The CPM has a history of treating the dissidents from its own rank and file more harshly than the enemy from outside. The Naxalites who broke away from the party were its worst enemies,” said social activist K Venu.
 
 “Unfortunately, those who come out of the CPM turned out to be worse than their parent party. See the RMPI which is more Stalinist than the CPM in its approach,” he said. “The Keezhattur agitators are unlikely to be a major threat to the CPM as they don’t have any alternative political line. What we saw in Bengal was the bursting of the anger that was pent up for 25 years and such a scenario is absent in Kerala,” Venu added.
 
 K S Hariharan, state secretariat member of the RMPI, that is struggling hard to fight the CPM in Onchiyam, also doesn’t see an upheaval in the CPM on the Keezhattur issue.
 
 “The CPM is a religion of sorts for the people of Kannur and the party workers are heavily dependent on the party for sustenance. Those who have joined the party during the past 25 years are careerists who do not have any political ideology and there is no chance of an ideological struggle in the CPM in Kannur,” he said.
 
 “If you turn against the CPM, you are branded enemy number one in the true Stalinist style. Then you are hunted down in every possible way,” said Hariharan who was assaulted by suspected CPM members at Atholi after he fell out with the CPM. “I think the CPM will destroy the Vayalkilikal at any cost and it will not have much impact on the party. But the way the CPM handled the issue would be an example for the world to realize the pro-neoliberal attitude of the party” he said.
 
 
