Kolhapur: The University Grants Commission (UGC) has asked universities and their affiliated colleges across the country to participate in the Unnat Bharat Abhiyan, latest by March 15.  It said Unnat Bharat is a conceptualized movement to enable processes that connect institutes of higher education with local communities to address the development challenges of rural India through participatory processes and appropriate technologies for accelerating sustainable growth. The letter from Rajnish Jain, secretary of UGC on March 6, said that the ministry of human resource and development has launched a ‘Unnat Bharat Abhiyan’ with an aim to connect the higher educational institutions to the villages around for transfer of knowledge to enrich rural India. The primary objectives of Unnat Bharat Abhiyan are to engage the faculty and students of higher educational institutions in understanding rural realities, identify and select existing innovative technologies, customise and implement the technology as per local needs, allow the institutions to devise systems for smooth implementation of various government schemes, he said. He added that both central and state higher educational institutions (technical and non-technical) will be selected through challenge method, based on certain parameters. The selected institutions will work closely with state government/district administration to provide customised technological solutions, undertake field studies, study the implementation of government schemes and facilitate their implementation according to the local needs. The select institutions are expected to meet some expenses from their own resources, as the HRD ministry would be funding them partially. He added the interested institutions may apply online latest by next week. An official of Shivaji University the scheme aims to create a virtuous cycle between the society and an inclusive university system by providing knowledge and practices for emerging professions and to upgrade the capabilities of both the public and the private sector. The official said that the participating institutes may get the chance to work on projects like MNREGA, Jalyukt Shivar Abhiyan, Jal Swarajya Abhiyan and many others. These projects can be undertaken through the coordination of various government agencies and educational institutions.