PUNE: The   authorities have arrested a flyer from Dubai for trying to sneak into the country through the airport here with gold, worth Rs 11.70 lakh, in a semi-solid jellylike form.m Customs officials on Thursday said  , a resident of   in Kerala, was held with 374.04g of gold as he reached Pune in the   flight IX-212 around 2.45pm on Tuesday, a day after a woman was arrested for trying to smuggle in the yellow metal from Dubai by adopting a similar technique.

 
  
 
 “This is a new modus operandi. As the gold is mixed with different chemicals, it takes time to extract and weigh it. The way the man was concealing the entire mix was clever, but we managed to arrest him,” an official said.
 
 As the man’s activities appeared suspicious, the officials frisked him thoroughly and found the plastic pouch containing the gold in the inner linings of his jeans.
 
 “This was the second time in the last three days that we stumbled upon a smuggling attempt at the Pune airport in this way (see graphic),” the official said.
 
 On Monday, the Customs authorities found gold worth Rs 46 lakh from the woman and a man after they reached Pune on the   flight SG-52 from Dubai.
 
 While the woman from   in Mumbai was carrying the gold in a semi-solid jelly-like form, the man from Kerala had tried to sneak into the country with the yellow metal in the form of a bright wrapper with chocolates inside.
 
 After the woman’s arrest, a Customs official had admitted that it was difficult to detect a smuggler passing through the door frame metal detector with such substances.
 
 “The methods these people are adopting to smuggle in gold are becoming quite innovative. We are, however, on our toes. The changes in the modus operandi show that the smugglers are trying out various ways to sneak into the country with gold. Our system is in place and we can deal with any type of methods,” another official said.
 
 With gold catches becoming a common affair at the airport, the Customs authorities have set up a new carat meter at the facility to speed up the valuation process of the seized yellow metal.
 
