True love always stands the test of time. And a rock-solid marriage is testimony to time-tested love. Hyderabad Times turns the spotlight on four city couples who’ve stood by each other through thick and thin, proving that at the end of it all, love always prevails. But what’s the secret to keeping that fire alive, we asked. Here’s what they had to say....

 
 
 I guess our requirements of love and its peripherals change with age and experience. From an upheaval rugged climb, it’s now more settled (like a plateau). We started enjoying each other’s company more with time and after years of togetherness.
 We may not be ‘soulmates’ but we are made for each other. Ours was an arranged marriage, we are poles apart. But as you know, opposites attract and love blossomed. That’s what happened in our case. 
 We filled the gaps and shortcomings of each other without much ado. Initially there was a bit of a fuss around this but over the years it's been an unspoken, subtle understanding.
 
 
 
 When you meet somebody, the vibes that you get has a positive impact on you. You walk a few inches taller and feel a lot lighter. However, don’t deny yourself the time to absorb it. I don’t believe in love at first sight. What happens fast, perhaps, would also recede fast. From friendship to attraction to love — live the entire journey. In my case, we knew each other for seven years before tying the knot. We had built beautiful memories of our conversations, by writing each other letters that gave us enough time to think and respond while presenting the joy of waiting for the next letter. We met over several discussions that primarily unravelled our real selves and persona. Only then did I come to know that she is the right person for me. Love is an endless magic. Give and take some time for it to settle in your relationship.
 
 
 
 Xavier and I have been together for nearly 18 years and married for over 13 of them. Our relationship has seen different stages over the years — as a married couple, 
 business partners and parents. I think the key elements in a relationship are companionship, mutual respect and trust. As a woman, it's crucial to have a man who allows you to grow personally and professionally. It’s so important to retain your sense of individuality and to know that you have the freedom to chase your dreams. You must also have the confidence that your partner is there for you, no matter what. To me, Xavier is that safety net and the foundation of our home. Shared interests and hobbies are also instrumental in making a marriage work — be it simple pleasures of life like bingeing on masala dosas and puris, spending lazy family evenings together, or bigger elements like the thrill of our work, our love for travel or hiking across countries.
 
 
 Jayant and I met at my railway office! He was an Accounts Manager for Modi Xerox then and his job was to ensure that the xerox machine, which our 
 department had purchased, was placed in a conducive place. As Assistant Operations Manager, I was in-charge of the office. It began with friendship over a Xerox machine — signing maintenance contracts and sometimes, a cup of chai! That was in 1990. We got married in 1991, after about 7-8 months.
 For us, love means creating our own space in our togetherness. As   says, ‘let there be spaces in your togetherness, and let the winds of the heavens dance between you.’
 We have both grown in love and life, and have nurtured each other. We have different tastes and likes — dance being my passion and bikes being his. But we never forced our opinions and ideas on each other. We are best friends; we define and complete each other. We are still the same young ones in love, just 26 years older.
 
 
