Growing up in Vigo, a town in northern Spain sandwiched between the sea and the mountains, Diana always wanted to be on a plane, to see new places. Her first major trip, for which she did all the preparations herself, was to Italy with her gang of college mates. “From that moment, life changed,” says Diana Miaus, who is now a full time traveller and Instagram influencer, winding up her second trip to Kerala, rather reluctantly. Miaus is no family name but one that the cat lover has assumed, which in Spanish stands for the plural of ‘meow’.

 She started planning more and more trips since that fun trip. After specialising in social psychology, she chose such jobs that allowed her enough holidays and though unplanned, vacations eventually became her vocation. “Since last July, I have been earning enough from my travels, though not so much to make me rich,” says Diana.
 
 The income is mostly from Instagram, where she has 38,000 followers, besides her blog. “The earnings are not always linked to the number of followers. Brands contact you and want you to post stuff about them. You have to create a picture that they can associate themselves with — it could be a destination, fashion or even a smartphone. I promote them through my pictures taken in beautiful locations. My pictures get shared a lot and so these firms like to associate with me. Sometimes, they use my pictures for their publicity,” she explains.
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 Marketing is taking on new forms by the day and social media influencers like Diana find a lot of takers in the corporate world. “We would advertise only what we believe in, so it carries a lot of credibility,” she says. These days, she has been focusing on luxury and fashion and her corporate clients are mostly from Europe and the US.
 
 Self-tutored in photography, she uses a tripod or seeks assistance from whoever is around, when she travels alone as she is there in most of the frames. Of course, she has picked up tricks of the trade from her boyfriend and ‘insta hubby’ Jorge who is also from Spain and has studied photography. Often, they   together and Diana says her best pictures come from these trips. Once, they fell off from a bike in Thailand and had to cut short their tour.
 Diana has visited around 25 countries and nowadays takes a break from ‘trips’ so that she can be at home, at least once a year. Last year, she came down for the Kerala Blog Express and loved her experience. “Munnar is my favourite destination in Kerala, with its amazing scenery, colours and general tranquillity. This time, besides Kerala, I visited Rajasthan too and loved it.”
 
 One of the top 60 bloggers selected from all over the world for the Great Indian Blog Trail, an Incredible India initiative, she travelled on Palace of Wheels before branching out on her own to explore Jaipur and Agra and of course, Kerala. “The way people look at you lovingly and kindly, I can’t but tell myself that India is my happy place,” she sums up. 
 
