MUMBAI: Even before the first month of 2018 has ended, 806 trees in the city are on the block – to be cut or transplanted.

 Most trees identified for cutting or transplantation are for various   —  , road and nullahwidening as also for obstruction of traffic, slum rehabilitation and construction projects.
 
 Municipal commissioner Ajoy Mehta said the debate is infrastructure versus tree cover. “We in the BMC are tree lovers and make every effort to save a tree. But we need infrastructure too and while I personally do not want any tree to be cut, as a bureaucrat I have to follow policy.”
 
 He said that the BMC has been planting 19,000 trees a year and citizens too have been planting as many trees.
 
 Activist Zoru Bhathena, who has been filing objections for every notice of tree-cutting issued by the BMC, said that if there is no objection, a tree is cut without asking any questions. “There have been times when a tree does not obstruct anything but has been marked for cutting,” he said, adding that survival rate of transplanted trees is abysmal.
 
 Bhathena said that owing to a high court stay on new constructions, currently there are very few tree-cutting proposals for real estate. “There will be a flood of applications once the stay is lifted,” he said. Bhathena also said that so far, 206 new trees have been added to a list of trees to be cut along the Metro III route.
 
 Kamlesh Shah, a former tree authority member, said that the body has been functioning without an expert member for nearly a year. Mehta said it has sent the proposal to the tree panel which is still to take a decision.
 
 Tree lovers said that if citizens do not object, a tree could be cut for no reason.
 
 A resident of Bimbisar Nagar, Goregaon, said trees outside the housing society were marked for cutting. “I happened to see all notices read the same — obstructing entrance to a particular building. None of the trees were in front of any gate. I made enquiries with the tree authority and was informed that the federation of societies had sought cutting of the trees. After our society objected, the BMC did not proceed,” he said.
 
 Uma Modi, an Andheri (east) resident, has been fighting to save old trees in Nagardas lane. Traffic obstruction by hawkers is the reason cited for  . “The BMC has cut full-grown trees and has replaced them with palms. Our query under the RTI Act revealed that a single letter copied several times was used as an excuse by the K-East ward to cut trees,” she said.
 
 Regarding cutting of trees on a large scale, civic chief Ajoy Mehta said: “In 2008 there were 19.17 lakh trees and in 2017 there are 27.25 lakh trees in the city. There has been an 8.75 lakh increase in tree cover. The census is authentic...,” he said, adding there is now a lot of consciousness about trees.
 
 
