CHENNAI: Congress president  's announcement that all pradesh Congress committee (PCC) presidents would be retained “unless a decision is taken to replace them” has set off a ‘war’ within the TN Congress Committee.

 While the incumbent, S  , sees it as an endorsement for his continuation as PCC chief, his rival E V K S Elangovan would like to interpret the caveat as an indication of Thirunavukkarasar’s removal. Sources said the DMK too had taken up the issue with the Congress leadership when the TNCC chief set up a panel to probe the RK Nagar debacle. The Dravidian major was unhappy about the Congress probing its failure. The Congress panel was disbanded.
 
 Leading the group opposing Tirunavukkarasar is Elangovan, a former Union minister, saying the state unit would soon get a new chief as the party high command was unhappy the state unit miserably failed to expose the anti-people policies of the   and the   governments. “We have not organised any public rallies all these months. We have not highlighted the failures of the two governments. Neither the fishermen issue nor the bus strike was handled properly by the state. But we did not expose it. I have a strong feeling Thirunavukkarasar still thinks he belongs to the AIADMK,” Elangovan told TOI. The former TNCC chief has urged the high command to change the leadership, given the political dynamics in the state.
 
 The allegation against Thirunavukkarasar is that the party did not go beyond the four walls of Sathyamurthy Bhavan, while the rival BJP is gaining a foothold in the state. Leaders in private confided that none of the major cities had seen public rallies last year, except agitations with very few members in the state capital. Even the fishermen meet took place in the party headquarters and not in Kanyakumari or Ramanathapuram. The nonvisibility of Congress in RK Nagar bypolls has been a matter of debate in the DMK camp. Thirunavukkarasar has been feeling the heat as most district congress committee presidents — more than 30 — got the postings after he took over the reins. Ironically, one is still facing a case for burning the effigy of Congress leader   years ago.
 
 The charge that he remains an AIADMK man at heart hasn’t gone down well with Thirunavukkarasar. “It is utter nonsense. I feel pity for him (EVKS). I think he is depressed. Only after knowing (about my background), did Rahul appointed me as chief of the state unit. Who are these people to question me,” the TNCC chief asked. He said he had been repeatedly charging the EPS government with corrupt practices. “It does not enjoy majority and the court verdict (on the disqualification of 18 MLAs) will topple the government,” he told TOI. The leader said the party had been organising meetings and agitations and many leaders participated in them.
 
