Planning a baby is one of the biggest steps in a couple’s life. As one in every six couples face   problems in India, this whimsical process of making a baby ends up becoming strenuous and stressful for many. Well, even though some fertility problems are not preventable, there are certain vital actions one can take to help initiate your new beginning. So, if any of your close ones have been trying to get pregnant for quite some time without success, Dr  , a city-based gynaecologist, gives you six smart tips that you should share with them. These will ease their stress and help them in the process...

  
 
 While many couples don’t focus on this,   and fertility are closely linked. Help your body in conceiving by consuming a balanced nutritious   of vegetables rich in vitamins and iron like spinach and broccoli; whole grains like whole wheat, brown rice and millets; and protein like paneer, eggs, fish and soya. Also, reduce the intake of processed food items such as maida and sugar. 
 
  
 
 Cutting down on caffeine and eliminating alcohol can also improve your chances of conception. While moderate amounts of tea or coffee is safe, you shouldn’t have too much. Alcohol, on the other hand, is definitely a no by all means, as it can aggravate problems like irregular periods and a lack of ovulation. Fertility issues are very widespread these days and affect millions of couples in India. These simple tips of following a healthy lifestyle and tracking fertile days using fertility monitors can go a long way in helping couples conceive naturally.
 
  
 
 We know how daunting the process of getting pregnant is. However, letting yourself get affected by the constant pressure of starting a family can affect the chances of getting pregnant. Stress and anxiety tend to reduce the release of fertility hormones and can even suppress ovulation. So, the next time you think your stress levels are reaching for the roof, try meditating or doing yoga to calm your nerves.
 
  
 
 Pent-up emotions may have an adverse effect while trying to get pregnant. Talking about it to your partner or a confidante may help you to relieve yourself of the tension, as well as find a viable solution to the issue. Many a time, talking to friends and family and sharing your inner thoughts can help you combat bouts of anxiety.
 
  
 
 By this, we definitely do not mean over exerting yourself. But following a daily regime of doing moderate physical activity improves hormone balance, blood flow and maximizes your chances of getting pregnant. Avoid straining yourself in order to stay slim. Instead, maintain a healthy weight. Try brisk walking, light jogging, cycling and sports like swimming to help overcome infertility. Track your fertile days using a fertility monitor. It is possible to get pregnant only during a few days every cycle. That is why it important for couples to educate themselves about their most fertile days, as every woman has her own unique cycle which is controlled by their hormone levels. Therefore, using fertility monitors which identify up to six fertile days of your cycle can help you a lot. These devises are gaining popularity as they can help you identify up to six fertile days of your cycle. These are at home tests that make tracking your ovulation cycles easy and convenient and have been proven to increase chances of getting pregnant naturally.
 
 
 
 
 
