KOLKATA: The traffic restrictions on  , on the stretch between the race course to the National Library, for the construction of a foot overbridge, slowed down vehicular movement in south and south-west Kolkata for more than three hours during the peak office hours on Monday.This was the first working day since the 66-hour-long restrictions were put in place.

 
 At least five important roads — Diamond Harbour Road, DL   road,   (from Exide crossing to Hastings), AJC Bose Road (towards PTS ) and Belvedere Road — which are the lifelines for south Kolkata, witnessed chock-a-block traffic between 9.30am and 12pm.
 
 The worst affected were residents of Alipore, Behala, Kidderpore, Ekbalpore, Maheshtala and Joka, who spent around 1.5 hours to 2 hours on the road to reach Esplanade, Howrah and  . “While going to Esplanade, I got stuck at Ekbalpore around 10.30am as all buses were being diverted through Hastings. By the time I reached Esplanade, I had already spent 50 minutes inside the vehicle,” said Satadru Banerjee, a CA working in Dalhousie.
 
 By 11.30am, several office-goers were forced to take autos to Metro stations in south Kolkata after buses, which had left on previous trips, failed to return to the Behala and Alipore terminuses on time. “It took me oneand-a-half hours to complete a trip between Behala Chowrasta and Dalhousie. It is usually takes around 50 to70 minutes. I kept switching the ignition on and off. Now that diesel costs more than Rs 71 a litre, I have decided to withdraw from the route for the next two days,” said bus driver  .
 
 While buses were asked to take the Hastings route, those trying to come towards the affected areas from central Kolkata got stuck in jams from as far as the Exide crossing. “DL Khan Road is a narrow single-lane road and it isn’t enough as an alternative route. We found it difficult to handle so many fourwheelers and were forced to divert them to DH Road. Some were even diverted through Hazra and then SP Mukherjee Road,” explained a traffic cop. But people travelling towards Bhowanipore and Rashbehari Crossing got stuck.
 
 Among vehicles that got stuck were ambulances. “While standing on the approach bridge to Vidyasagar Setu, I could see vehicles lined up from as far as PTS and up to Hastings and Kidderpore crossing on my right. A few ambulances did try taking the other flank (towards Rabindra Sadan), but they could not manoeuvre from the spot,” said Satyendra Tripathi, a Howrah resident.
 
 Cops at   said there were some hiccups, but they tried to prioritize the office-goers.
 
 “From the beginning, we had two important goals — keep central Kolkata, including the AJC Bose Road flyover and Maa flyover, congestion-free, and ensure that the central business district has free movement. Otherwise, the entire city traffic would have collapsed. We were successful on both counts,” said DC (traffic) Sumit Kumar.
 
 According to cops, Monday evening saw lesser congestion due to two reasons: office-goers mostly took alternative routes, and Harish Mukherjee Road was used to divert a large chunk of vehicles headed towards southwest Kolkata.
 
