NEW DELHI:   is the talk of Indian cricket after a record-setting 2017-18 domestic season. After a mountain of runs in the   - 1160 at 105.45, with five centuries - as Karnataka reached the semi-finals, Agarwal switched seamlessly into T20 mode to score 258 runs at a strike-rate of 144.94 in the   and then in the recent   racked up a tournament record 723 runs at 90.37, which culminated with Karnataka lifting the domestic one-day title. 

 
 In Tuesday’s final, Agarwal punched his way to 90 off 79 balls after Karnataka slipped to 5/2, an innings that set up his team’s victory. His run in the Vijay Hazare Trophy has to spelled out to underline the supreme form he’s been in: innings of 109, 84, 28, 102, 89, 140, 81 and 90 to take his overall domestic season tally to a mind-boggling 2,141 in 30 innings, surpassing Shreyas Iyer’s record of 1947 from two seasons ago.
 
 Speaking to TOI, the 27-year-old batsman opened up on his landmark season, batting when the chips are down, his captain’s support and how removing the fear of failure allowed him to cash in like never before.
 
 
 
 
 
 I worked very hard during the off season and that gave me a better understanding of my game. That gave me additional confidence. To know that I understood my game better was a really nice feeling. But I never expected the season to go the way it did. It’s quite tricky, to be honest. Having your role cut out always helps. The basics remain the same. It’s the mindset and how you use the practice sessions in between formats that is crucial.
 
 
 We know how to play good cricket. Having won the two trebles in the past few years, we understand what it takes to have a trophy-winning season. The kind of energy everyone needs to put in, the kind of team culture which is required…we knew all that. We tried to emulate as much of that as possible.
 
 
 To be honest, winning that game [against Hyderabad] was extremely important. Winning is what matters. Two zeroes are not any sort of contribution, but when you win the side can look at a player and say ‘he’s batting well, we can give him another go’. When I got those two zeroes, as a player I let go of the fear of failure. In my head, there was nothing worse that could happen. You never know what will happen next, but letting go of the fear of failure helped. I told myself ‘this is as low as you can go, it can only be upwards and onwards from here’.
 
 I would really like to thank the management and the selectors for backing me at that time, and a special thanks to my captain Vinay Kumar. He came up to me and told me that it was alright, that everyone goes through this and that I needed to once I got set I value my wicket and score big. He told me that nobody likes the feeling of not scoring runs, and so that when I started to score runs, I make sure I made it big.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 In the very next game I got a start, and I said to myself ‘wow, you’ve got an opportunity to make amends’. I just carried on and on. Somewhere at the back of mind the two zeroes were there, and getting to a ton in the next game gave me the confidence that I should not throw it away.
 
 
 I think I faced around 200 balls for the hundred. I thought ‘this is good, now take it further’. The conditions were good for batting. Vinay Kumar’s words were ringing in my ears: when you’re set, make sure you make it count. I had to make up for what I had not done in the previous game, so the idea was to bat as long as possible. Once I got to 170-odd, I started to play a bit more positively. The situation demanded that we get a big score, so if I started to play a little quicker we would have more time to bowl them out. So after I got to 170 and then 200, I opened up.
 
 
 Most definitely. You have to adapt to different situations. In this case I had to be patient. When you are 19/3 you cannot go onto the attack. I thought Railways bowled extremely well. It was tough conditions, it was cold in Delhi and the ball was moving around. Manish [Pandey, fellow centurion] decided that we had to build a partnership and play six to ten overs and then see how it went. Once we got a partnership going, we realised we had a measure of their bowling. Then we re-evaluated the situation. We were both confident and said to each other that if we kept defending all day then Railways would not be able to barge through. We then decided to mix caution with aggression and I think we did that really well. Once the partnership was forged we didn’t look back.
 
  
  
 
 
 To be honest, I never thought about the season and how it would pan out. Once I started getting runs it was about making every innings count. And not count for myself, but for the team. Every time we were in a tough situation it was about someone or the other putting their hand up in those conditions and seeing the team through. In the Karnataka dressing room, we’ve always spoken about how those players who are doing well need to carry the team through during tough times. Not everyone is going to perform in a game, so the guys who get set or who are doing well should make sure they finish the job.
 
 
  
  
 
 It was unfortunate for Rahul to get run out when his bat got stuck. When R Samarth came in, the talk between us was about biding time because Saurashtra’s bowlers were bowling very good lines and lengths. They didn’t give us anything loose. We decided to get ourselves stuck in and forge a partnership, because it becomes very important to get even little partnerships between wickets. If one of them blossoms, you can get a big total. Once we did that, it was important that we didn’t let their bowlers settle. We couldn’t let them have us three down with nothing on the board. I stayed positive and decided to let the bowlers know that if they were going to bowl in my half, they could get hit over the top. This puts pressure back on the bowler.
 
 
 I think that is very important. Staying in the present is something cricket has taught me. That is easier said than done, however. But trying to be in those moments, blocking out what is not in your control is something you can try and do, and in my case it worked wonders. That is something that top cricketers speak about. That’s something I have learnt.
 
 
 When everything is going well on the field, and then things fall into place on the personal front, it is a nice feeling. So yes, definitely.
 
 
 The IPL has been a tremendous learning experience. Sharing dressing rooms with stalwarts who have succeeded in international cricket and who continue to do so is amazing. The stuff of dreams. It depends what you can pick up from them and add on to your game, but for a youngster, getting that opportunity to learn has been great.
 
 
 I am very excited. Totally geared up. A new franchise for me, but they’ve been there for ten years and that excites me … to get the chance for a team like   is special.
 
