It is only fitting that the actor who made his debut with a film called   and has come to be known for his penchant for sports and fitness is the brand ambassador for Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports’ Khelo India programme. Akshay Kumar was recently in Delhi and visited the Indira Gandhi Stadium to watch some action from the Khelo India School Games. Speaking to DT on the sidelines of the event, Akshay talked about why his career depends on sports, his earliest memories of playing gully cricket in   and how he finds time to play even during shoots.

  
  Akshay Kumar (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
 
 
 Akshay said that he was impressed by the Khelo India programme and the platform it has given to the young sporting talent from across the country, which is what compelled him to become a part of the movement. He said, "This should have been done long back. You need to nurture players at a young age and school is the best time. That is when they are beginning to blossom and getting to know what the world is about. So Khelo India can give these kids the experience of how competitive life is going to be ahead. They will get to see big stadia, cheering crowds, and will experience things all around them for the first time. I feel promoting this right now is the most important thing for my country."
 
  
  
 
 
 Some of Akshay’s earliest memories of sports come from Delhi. Growing up in  , Akshay told us that he played a lot of gully cricket on the streets of Delhi, something that developed his passion for sports later. 
 
 He recalled, "Some of my best memories from Delhi are about playing here. We used to play cricket near the Red Fort. Abhi toh band kar diya hai unhone wahan khelna. Allow nahi karte. My friends and I used to go to India Gate and play in the lawns a lot. In those days, there weren’t as many security concerns in these areas. Whenever I see the Red Fort, it reminds me of the days I spent hitting fours and sixes on the streets there. Every Sunday, we would have a match there. Paison ke match lagte thay – Rs. 1100 or Rs. 1500 for the winning team. And then the Rs. 100 every player would get on winning was spent on chhole kulche in Purani Dilli for days to come. All that was so amazing because in the absence of computer games and phones, sport was all we had. Ab toh pata nahi kya ho gaya hai ki logon ko phone se fursat hi nahi milti hai." Akshay’s love for sports has a pedigree: his father was a wrestler and inculcated a love for sports in him since his childhood. He said, "My father used to be a wrestler. He was someone who was always fit and stayed active, and those are the habits that I have adopted from him. What I learnt from him was that you can achieve success in any sphere because of sports, because it makes you a fitter person."
 
  
  
 
 
 The actor, who was known as Khiladi Kumar throughout the ’90s,admitted that his success is all because of sports and his image of a sportsman. He added, "My whole career depends on sports. I entered the film industry as a sportsman, as a martial artist. Meri toh pehli film hi Khiladi thi. Whatever I am today isn’t because of acting. It is because of sports. I am a stuntman and a martial artist first, then an actor."
 
  
  
 
 
 He might be among the busiest actors in the industry now but the 50-year-old says he manages to sneak in some play time during most of his film shoot schedules as well. "I still play whenever I get time. I play with my children. Of course, it is not as intense as competitions and tournaments, but it keeps me active. I will play anything, any sport. Koi na koi khel khelna hai, chaahe woh kanche kyun na ho. Even during shoots, if I am shooting near any army or paramilitary camp, I’ll call them and request them that I want to play volleyball or cricket. I will go and join them for some time. Watching and playing sports is essential for my survival," Akshay said.
 
 
 
 The actor has also been a part of sports-based films as well. He starred in Patiala House, a cricket-based film in 2012, and will be seen as a hockey coach in the upcoming film Gold. The actor said that cinema has a responsibility to promote sports too as it has a far-reaching canvas, something that could give all sports a push into the mainstream. "Sports films can make a lot of difference. Cinema has the power to bring about change. After Toilet – Ek Prem Katha, we used to get letters from men who had constructed toilets for their wives, and they were proud about it. That was a change in mindset the movie brought about. Similarly, sports films can go a long way in creating sports culture in the country. Films like Dangal, Bhaag Milkha Bhaag, etc. told people in India that there are other sports in the country apart from cricket; other sportspersons we can be proud of. And cinema needs to keep doing that," Akshay added. 
 
  
  
 
