MUMBAI: The school bell won’t ring anymore at New Era. Founded in 1930, the Grant Road-based institution will see its last batch of 28 students graduating from Class X this year.

 The writing was on the wall from the day, some years ago, the striking fresco that had adorned the school’s façade and exemplified its Gandhian philosophy for generations was removed. There is little clarity as to what will come up on the premises.
 
 Last month, alumni of the school met at a “closure gathering” and recalled the days that were, finally taking home a piece of history with them in the form of three CDs and a coffee table book comprising a collection of memories. “Our association with the school has only grown with time,” said former student Parag Jhaveri.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 It is sad that an institution like this which shaped the lives of so many of us will close down,” said Jhaveri, who was among the many responsible for keeping the school functional for the last few years.
 
 In 2007, the founders sold the school to the   and Orbit Corporation. This sale was preceded by rumours that the construction company was going to raze the school to build a shopping mall.
 
 Students and parents protested and the new management was forced to promise that they would not shut the school or move to another board till the last student passed out. What the school management did was stop all new admissions, signalling its disinterest in continuation.
 
 Soon, the painting that greeted every Mumbaikar who passed by the campus was pulled down and it now remains only as a long, folded photograph in the coffee table book. “It was like a sick unit. Teachers left, activities were a lso cut down,” said parent Rupen Doshi whose son passed out two years ago.
 
 “In a school meant for 1,200, there were merely 50-60 students,”said Tushit Amin, another parent.
 
 New Era was set up just when the   had declared its struggle for “poorna swaraj” (complete independence) from the British rule. The campus has several other historic markers. It is from New Era that the secret radio station operated by freedom fighters   and Rohit Dave would clandestinely broadcast the progress of the freedom struggle to Indians and goad them to keep the spirit of freedom alive after Mahatma Gandhi was arrested in 1942. The school’s red-and flaming-orange fresco reminded Mumbaikars of the struggle.
 
 A spokesperson for the Aditya Birla Group said it had moved out of the management of New Era in 2009. But the managing trustee,  , is listed on Linked In as the CEO of Udyog Services Ltd and joint president of Aditya Birla Management Corporation.
 
 Malti Renjen, the school’s principal from 2006 up to now, refused to comment when contacted but in her coffee table memoir of the school, she has said, “The school has moved with the times, in fact the vision of its founders seems to have been in sync with today. This school has given to the world bright young individuals who, though modern in their outlook, have continued to embrace traditional values.”
 
