NAGPUR: The decision of   Chief Minister   to expand the scope of farm loan waiver to include defaults since 2001 has been hailed as ‘historic’ by farm activist Kishore  .

 Tiwari, who also heads the   for tackling farm distress in the state, said with Fadnavis granting this demand of agitating farmers in Mumbai on Monday, around 90% of farmers in the acutely distressed suicide-prone Vidarbha and   regions would be able to get benefit of the waiver scheme. Earlier, the cut off was 2008.
 
 “What makes this more significant is that after a long gap of 10 to 15 years, a large chunk of farmers who were denied fresh bank loans because of past defaults, would now be eligible for crop loans providing an opportunity to start afresh in their struggle for existence,” Tiwari told ToI. 
 
 But he is sceptical if the nationalized banks will do so and says the government should ensure that they fall in line and provide crop advances in right quantity at right time to farmers.
 
 “Unless NABARD is proactive and the banks rise to the occasion, the chance provided to benefit most farmers would be squandered,” Tiwari has warned.
 
 He has also pointed out that the Rs72,000-cr farm loan waiver rolled out in 2008 by the UPA government had left out large numbers of farmers in the drylands of Vidarbha and Marathwada because of the insistence of then Union agriculture minister Sharad Pawar to cap the land holding at 5 acres for waiver beneficiary. The average holding in Vidarbha is over 5 acres. 
 
 “With no such limitation now, more farmers will be included in the scheme. For them, the doors for institutional finance will open after a decade” he added.
 
 Tiwari has also suggested that to make the most of this new opportunity, the British-era system of seasonal crop loan be disbanded. Instead, farmers should be given an advance for a five-year term to even out the up and down crop cycles in that period. “This will make repayments feasible and reduce delinquency,” he said.
 
 He acknowledged that the state had done a lot in the last three years for farmers with schemes like   and farm ponds for water security, crop insurance plans with subsidies and adequate supply of seeds and fertilizers. “With the relief through loan waiver and fresh chance to get crop loans, the situation can be consolidated and an effort be made to come out of the farm crisis that seemed never-ending,” he said.
 
 
