NEW DELHI: The stir by   against   got a shot in the arm after a  ,  , in a series of  , stated that the issue was never on the   and had cropped up at the meeting only by accident.

 According to Kishwar, the matter came up during a discussion on low scores among SC/ST students, with attendance being a possible reason for their dismal performance. 
 
 She tweeted: “Some teachers expressed concern about the poor performance of SC/ST students despite special classes being organised for them. Teachers pointed out that the performance was related to students not attending even regular classes, leave alone the special coaching. In that context, someone mentioned the need for compulsory attendance. At that point, I asked the VC if JNU had any data regarding the workload of teachers and whether teacher absenteeism was contributing to poor attendance in classes. Some members then said why not have compulsory attend-ance? (sic)...” 
 
 She then claimed to have questioned the rationale behind compulsory attendance. “I reiterated that we must first identify source of the problem and have proper data on the number of teaching hours assigned to faculty in various departments and the data on student absenteeism. For instance, do all SC students fare poorly or only those who miss their classes? Is special coaching of any help?” she tweeted.
 
 Kishwar also expressed unhappiness over the imposition of the same rule on PhD students. “It was a rude shock to read in newspapers that the VC had implemented compulsory attendance for all students, including those doing their PhD. It makes no sense whatsoever because no regular classes are held at that level. PhD students are expected to do field work or archival research,” Kishwar wrote on the micro-blogging site.
 
 She, however, suggested that if attendance system had to be introduced, it must be done in a better manner.
 
 JNUSU president Geeta Kumari said the comment made by a VC-appointed AC member proved what the authorities have been pushing all this while. “This is now proof to what we have been saying and can use it to intensify our fight,” Kumari told TOI.
 
 Kishwar is visiting faculty to JNU. She was, in May 2017, appointed by the VC to represent the School of Arts & Aesthetics as an outside expert for two years in the academic council. 
 
 Her appointment had been widely criticised by the university faculty, claiming that her name wasn’t on the the list of experts provided by the school to VC.
 
 
