NEW DELHI: In the largest ever takeover   in the Indian health space,   (FHL) demerged its hospital business into Bengaluru-based  , which also acquired a controlling stake in its subsidiary, diagnostics company SRL, creating a $2.2-billion medical services entity.

 
 A decision was taken by boards of Fortis and Manipal on Tuesday in a marathon meeting. Billionaire Ranjan Pai-led Manipal’s takeover deal is backed by private equity giant  . The merged company — which would rival Apollo Hospitals as the country’s largest private healthcare provider — will have 45 hospitals and 11,000 beds. 
 
 “The deal makes a compelling strategic fit in terms of complementary geographies and clinical strengths benefiting all,” Manipal chairman Ranjan Pai said. “We continue to support the management and the board to successfully transition to the new joint entity. We thank everyone involved in the deal for reposing faith despite challenging circumstances,” Shivinder and Malvinder Singh said in a statement.
 
 Under the deal, for every 100 shares of Fortis, a stockholder will receive 10.83 scrips in the combined entity Manipal Health Enterprises (MHEPL). With this, the shareholding of Singh brothers in the merged entity will come down to a mere 0.3% from the existing 0.8% in Fortis. The shareholding of Ranjan Pai will reduce to 37.9% in the combined entity from 58.8% in Manipal Hospital before the merger.
 
 According to a source, Manipal Hospital was valued at around Rs 6,000 crore and FHL at Rs 5,000 crore. Therefore, the merged entity MHEPL will be valued at Rs 11,000 crore.
  
  
 
 The Fortis board also decided to sell its 20% stake in diagnostics firm   to Manipal for Rs 720 crore. Manipal Hospital will also buy 30.9% stake from other investors at Rs 3,600-crore net value of SRL. On the whole, Manipal Group and TPG will invest an additional Rs 3,900 crore in the restructuring and hold 50.9% share in SRL.
 
 Out of Rs 3,900 crore, Manipal Hospital and TPG will use about Rs 1,800 crore to buy out the 50.9% stake in SRL. Rest of the amount would be used to acquire hospital assets from Singapore-listed REIT. 
 
 TOI first reported on TPG’s efforts to script a multi-billion-dollar merger deal on February 16 last year.
 
 Fortis Healthcare, on the other hand, will become an investment holding company and will continue to hold 36.6% stake in SRL. Fortis CEO Bhavdeep Singh said that the company will also explore opportunities in healthcare businesses.
 
 The deal was necessitated following an award by an arbitrator against the promoters Malvinder Mohan Singh and Shivinder Mohan Singh to pay Rs 3,500 crore to Japan’s Daiichi company. After the Supreme Court judgment asking Singh brothers to pay Daiichi, both the brothers resigned from the Fortis board. 
 
 Manipal is the fourth-largest hospital chain in the country with a strong presence in South India. Manipal Hospitals has built a strong brand over the past 65 years and currently owns and operates 11 hospitals, including one in Malaysia, with 2,900 beds and employs 1,350 doctors. It also manages operations of 3,400 beds across multiple teaching hospitals with 1,500 doctors. However, teaching hospitals are not the part of the deal.
 
 Fortis is the second-largest hospital chain in the country, currently encompassing both the hospitals and the diagnostics businesses. It operates a network of 34 hospitals with 4,600 beds employing 2,600 doctors and 6,500 nurses. It operates its healthcare delivery services in India, Dubai, Mauritius and Sri Lanka.
 
 
