KOLKATA: The city is set to witness another celestial spectacle within a fortnight of the  . While Kolkatans will get an exclusive view the full moon this weekend, the rest of the world will get to see it only on March 1.

 On Saturday evening, a giant full moon in all its splendour and glory will descend over the northern lawn of Victoria Memorial Hall (VMH). Though half a million times smaller than the real moon, the 7m diameter moon will look way bigger as it remains suspended a mere 20ft above the ground.
 
 ‘Museum of the Moon’, an art installation of the moon’s replica created by British artist  , will be showcased at VMH over the weekend in association with the British Council. On both days, the lawns will be open till 9pm as we expect huge crowds,” said VMH curator Jayanta Sengupta. The garden usually closes at 5.45pm.
  
  
 The installation created with the help of detailed   imagery of the lunar surface will offer a complete view of the moon. “Since the moon always faces the same direction, no one on earth gets to see its far side. This artwork will provide the opportunity to see the unseen,” explained Sengupta.
 
 When the internally-lit full moon glows at the VMH grounds, only a sliver of the actual moon will be visible in the sky as it will be barely two days after Thursday’s new moon.
 
 Since its first exhibition in late 2016, ‘Museum of the Moon’ has travelled within the UK, France, Netherlands, US, Spain, Italy, Latvia, Dubai and Hong Kong. The venues have ranged from a swimming pool, an atrium, a dockyard and a cathedral. Before Kolkata, the moon was displayed at Bengaluru, Udaipur and Mumbai. Jerram’s moon has evoked reactions from across the world. The artist recounts how a young girl in Bengaluru asked him if he would put the moon back into the sky.
 
 Jerram came up with the idea 20 years ago but couldn’t execute it due to logistical issues and fund crunch. There was no NASA imagery and there weren’t printers big enough to make this artwork. The imagery used by Jerram was taken by NASA’s Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter camera. The moon finally took shape two years ago with the help of the UK Space Agency, University of Bristol and The Association for Science and Discovery Centres and a several festivals.
 
 Birla Planetarium director (eduction & research) Debiprosad Duari and British Council director   will be present at the inauguration .
 
 
