KOCHI: Kochi   Rail Ltd (KMRL) and several stakeholders, including the state government and Cial, are looking seriously at the possibility of   and baggage drop points at Metro stations for passengers flying out of Kochi international airport.

 
 Transport secretary KR Jyothilal said the concept to provide airline check-in facilities at – to begin with, JLN Station – Metro stations is part of the effort to integrate   with the airport. “The modalities have to be worked out. We should look into how luggage can be transported from the metro station to Cial. Talks have to be held with airline companies to find out how they can associate with this plan,” he told TOI.
 
 The idea is that passengers can check in their baggage, collect boarding pass and take a Metro train to Aluva. From there they can take a feeder service, in all probability an electric bus connecting Aluva Metro station and Cial. Cial managing director VJ Kurian said that the airport will provide its views on the concept once it gets a proposal from the state government or KMRL. “I have not received any proposals in this regard. Let’s see what they have planned, and then give an opinion,” he said.
 
 KMRL managing director APM   said that the check-in facility at Metro stations “is an exciting possibility”, and its implementation will depend on the concurrence of airline companies, international airports and support from all other stake holders.
 
 Airline professionals have welcomed the move. “It is a good move if there is proper connectivity from the Metro station to airport. The airlines have to take responsibility of baggage. The security screening can be done at airport,” said a senior airline official.
 
 Delhi Metro offers similar facilities at counters in various metro stations on Airport Express Line. The baggage gets transferred to Indira Gandhi International Airport through a secured baggage handling system (BHS). The baggage has to be checked-in a minimum of two hours and maximum of 12 hours prior to scheduled departure of the flight.
 
