HYDERABAD: Forum for Good Governance (FGG) has alleged that Municipal Administration and Urban Development (MAUD) department of Telangana is protecting tainted officials of GHMC and HMWS&SB, who were involved in   cases. Based on the RTI replies obtained from MAUD and Telangana ACB, the FGG said that three cases booked against top officials of the civic bodies have either been withdrawn or kept in cold storage.

 FGG secretary and retired IFS official, M  , on Tuesday said, “When we asked about the status of cases against three officials, we received RTI reply from MAUD on January 27. In the response, MAUD said that it is not feasible to furnish the note files as they are under process at different level of enquiry.”
 
 However, FGG obtained information from ACB through RTI, which revealed that government dropped further action in the case against former Pedda Amberpet municipal commissioner, Upender Reddy. In connection with the ACB case against M Rajashekar Reddy, the then general manager of HMWS&SB, the departmental action has not been initiated. For the past eight years, corruption case is pending in the Secretariat. The case against GHMC assistant city planner, Amruthkumar Gowrishetty, is pending in the Secretariat since 2011.
 
 Retired IFS official Padmanabha Reddy said, “On February 1, 2014, Upender Reddy was trapped and a case was registered. After conducting a detailed enquiry, ACB sent final report in September 2014 through Vigilance Commission. The commission, while agreeing with the ACB report, advised the government to accord permission to prosecute Upender Reddy. However, after 15 months, the government dropped further action in the matter.”
 
 “ACB raided house of   in November 2010. After enquiry, ACB concluded that the accused officer possesses disproportionate assets. The ACB has sent final enquiry report in October 2013 through Vigilance Commission, requesting the government for permission to prosecute him and also asked government to take departmental action for not submitting annual property statements. The commission concurring with ACB report recommended the government to accord permission for his prosecution. After 14 months, the government decided to initiate departmental action. However, it has not yet started.”
 
 In case against Gowrishetty, agreeing with the ACB report, the commission in May 2011 advised the government to accord permission to prosecute him. The government kept the file pending for over 16 months and finally issued GO, rejecting ACB’s request, instead ordered departmental enquiry. The enquiry has not yet been initiated.
 
 When contacted, MAUD principal secretary   said he will look into the matter. GHMC commissioner B   was not available for comment.
 
