CHENNAI: It was a historic occasion for   football on Wednesday as the women’s team stunned favourites and defending champions Manipur 2-1 to win their maiden senior national football title at the   in Cuttack on Wednesday. The triumph was all the more sweet as Tamil Nadu had made the final for the first time in the tournament’s 23-year-old history.

 
 Incidentally, the Tamil Nadu men have never won the   for the senior national championship. They made the 1973 and 2012 finals, where they lost to Bengal and Services respectively.
 
 The chief architect of Tamil Nadu’s triumph was striker Indumathi, who has represented India in the last South Asian Games in 2016. The 24-year-old Cuddalore girl, who was affected by 2004 tsunami, scored 10 of Tamil Nadu’s 25 goals, including one in the final. Interestingly, Indumathi, along with two other Cuddalore girls Vineeta and Saranya, had switched allegiance to Tamil Nadu from Pondicherry this season after getting a job with Tamil Nadu police. “I was playing for Tamil Nadu for the first time. The average age of our team is 22. So, being an Indian player, I had more responsibility to guide the others. I am happy that they responded well. The credit for the 10 goals goes to my teammates for providing me the passes,” Indumathi, who is a sub-inspector, told TOI from Cuttack on Wednesday.
 
 Tamil Nadu had gone into the tournament with an attacking mindset. On Wednesday, too, coach Murugavendan’s strategy was no different. TN took the lead in the third minute when Indumathi, who was adjudged the best player of the final and tournament, dribbled a couple of defenders to slot home past an onrushing Manipur goalkeeper. Indumathi set up TN’s second in the 40th minute when Indhrani headed home her free-kick. Ratanbala scored the lone goal for Manipur in the 57th.
 
 Most women of the 20-member Tamil Nadu team come from poor families. Murugavendan said that the girls have developed a fearless attitude due to their humble background. “Almost 90 percent of the girls come from below poverty line. They have nothing to lose and want to succeed at any cost. So that has made them fearless. So when they went up against teams like West Bengal and Manipur, they wanted to prove themselves. We trained hard and they never complained. That shows their character and how tough they are mentally,” Murugavendan said.
 
 Coming from same backgrounds also helped the team unite. Murugavendan selected 10 rookie university girls from trials and they mingled well with the rest. Similarly, the Cuddalore girls joined the team for the first time and Indumathi says that they have always felt welcomed. “I had already played in the Indian team but I didn’t have any ego. So initially when I went to speak to them, they were keen to learn from me. Now, we are friends and enjoy each others’ success. I have even promised some to recommend their names for government jobs,” Indumathi said.
 
 Despite the national success, the fortune of the girls might not change much. Chairman of the women’s committee   wants to take up the mantle to seek jobs for the footballers. “A lot of women footballers leave after getting disoriented because of few job opportunities. So I want to submit a memorandum to the chief minister and the sports minister so that these girls get some jobs and continue to play. This success shouldn’t be a flash in the pan,” Mohaideen said.
 
