NEW DELHI: The nitty-gritty of the sensational   of five-year-old Vihaan Gupta were taken care of by 21-year-old Pankaj Singh, who was injured in Tuesday’s encounter with crime branch, sources said.

 Singh, who was arrested on Wednesday after getting discharged from hospital, said that he came out on bail from Tihar Jail on January 5. He gave the suggestion of targeting Vihaan when Nitin Sharma, the prime accused, discussed the plan to commit kidnapping for ransom.
 
 Sharma often sent Singh to Vihaan’s father’s shop to procure raw material for his dhaba. During one such visit, he overheard a conversation in which Sunny Gupta, Vihaan’s father, was talking about getting Rs 57 lakh from a deal. TOI had reported this on Wednesday.
 
 The Gupta family had planned to buy a shop worth Rs 1.15 crore from another businessman, Mukesh Singhal, early last year. However, Singhal (47) was shot dead by three bikers in Mansarovar Park of Shahdara on March 16, 2017. Singhal’s wife and son were also injured while trying to save him from the criminals. The case is still unsolved and cops are probing if Sharma and his accomplices were involved in that robbery as well.
 
 After Singhal’s death, the deal did not go through and the kidnappers believed that the family had received the advance of Rs 60 lakh they had allegedly paid Singhal. This was why they had kept the ransom Rs 60 lakh.
 
 A native of Uchhawan in Rajasthan, Singh has studied till Class X. He was never happy with the wages he received while working as a waiter at wedding functions and stole a bag from a car last year. He was arrested and jailed. He decided to do “something big” after learning about the crime world while he was in jail.
 
 The trio had tried to execute the kidnapping on January 22, 23 and 24, but failed. This has been corroborated from their mobile locations. “Singh had asked Sharma to get the ransom transferred into a bank account, which would have been given to a jeweller in exchange for gold. Singh had learnt this trick in jail,” said a police officer.
 
 Police are trying to ascertain the role of a woman who had accompanied Sharma to a wedding on Monday. He had dropped the woman home and was on his way to his hideout in Shalimar City when he was nabbed. He has been taken on remand for two days.
 
 
