NAGPUR: "Atharva, ek bada score hona agar next level ke liye highlight hona hai to... 100 se kuch nahi hota aaj kal." This was the advice from one of the Vidarbha players to under-19 skipper   before the   final began on Sunday.

 The 18-year-old captain nodded his head and gave a reply which showed his determination. "Yeh match mein karta hun, bhai." The left-hander did it with a monumental unbeaten triple hundred. Atharva, who hails from Akola, has made it a habit of knocking out the opposition single-handedly.
 
 On Tuesday, when Vidarbha were eyeing to bat Madhya Pradesh out of the final, Atharva (313 no; 468b, 34x4, 1x6) put his head down and rolled his bat the best way he can to become the first Vidarbha player to score a triple century across all age groups. He has left behind teammate  's 223 against Himachal in a league match in November last by several miles.
 
 In first-class cricket,  's 221 scored against MP in Ranji Trophy in 1991-92 is the highest score for Vidarbha.
 
 It is also Atharva's second consecutive century and the first triple ton of the tournament this season. He becomes the second batsmen after   to score a triple ton in the Under-19 final. Yuvraj had notched up 358 against Punjab in 1999 and Atharva is just 46 runs away from setting a new record.
 
 "Atharva led by example in the final match. He guided the Vidarbha innings and helped us take lead. He batted really well today. A triple century in the final is an achievement to be proud of for entire Vidarbha cricket," said  , the coach while talking to the media.
 
 Atharva, who began playing at the age of 9 in Akola, was labelled as a bright batsmen then by everyone. Atharva's father Yayati, a professor, then began taking special interest in his game.
 
 Yayati consulted cricket experts and made a firm decision to let his ward pursue cricket. He prepared a pitch in their backyard and even bought a bowling machine. The hard-working Atharva's promising journey had started on the right note.
 
 Within a few years, Atharva was inducted into VCA's residential academy. He went on to lead under-14 VCA team that lifted the Rajsingh   in 2013-14 season. "Atharva is with me since his under-14 days. Even then he had leadership qualities," added Ghani.
 
 The opener is widely known for being calm and composed when he stands in the middle. No matter how challenging the bowling attack is, Atharva influences the bowlers with a solid orthodox technique imbibed through tireless practice sessions. Punjab got a taste of his prowess in the semifinal as Atharva made 124.
 
 This season, Atharva has been in good form. He scored 391 in five Vinoo Mankad Under-19 One-Dayers and even made it to the Indian team for Youth   in November. He played one match and scored 13.
 
 Atharva currently lacks first-class experience like Prithvi Shaw, Shubman Gill and Manjot Kalra, all of who are in the World Cup under-19 team that will play the final against Australia on Saturday. "Had he got some matches to play in the senior category, he too may have been in the team to New Zealand," a source in   told TOI.
 
 
 
