The latest episode of   starts with   getting shocked seeing her brother Adi and   together. Later, she follows them and notices that Adi is forging signatures of their father   Bhalla. Ruhi confronts Adi and believes that her brother has been trapped in Suraj's evil plan.   tells Ruhi that it is his own business which he built and he would not allow anyone to ruin it. 

 Further Ruhi threatens to expose him in front of everyone but Adi does not get affected and tells her to go ahead. He tells her that once she exposes him she will be responsible for anything that follows after that. On the other hand, Roshni feels worried as Shagun blames her for ruining 3 lives. 
 
 Shagun comes to meet Roshni and tells her about a boy who is interested in getting married to her. Shagun tells her to take the next step and not let herself ruin everybody's relationship by staying with Adi.
 
 Roshni agrees to meet the boy and Shagun tells her that she is thinking about her kids. Ruhi reaches home and assembles everyone. Raman asks Ruhi to tell him about the matter and Ruhi tells everything about Adi to her family. Raman loses his calm and calls Adi. Adi tells that him that he is ready to take the blame on himself for his sister's sake. He further tells Raman that he does not want Ruhi to go to jail and will take up all the blame that she has made. Adi shows a video of Suraj confessing about his illegal business and also reveals his partner name-Ruhi.
 
 Raman tells Ruhi to sort out things within 2 days. Ruhi is shocked to know that her brother has in return blamed her. 
 
 Later, Adi taunts Ruhi and asks her if she liked his game. He tells her that he will not let anybody ruin his game as it was not given by Raman to him. He blames Ishi ma and says that when he needed her she was busy saving Pihu and on the other side, Ruhi built another rival company. 
 
 
 Adi confesses that Param had blocked all the accounts and he had no options left as he wanted money. Ruhi confronts him about Sonakshi's death and is shocked to know that her brother has changed a lot. Adi warns Ruhi and tells her to not speak about the topic otherwise Raman would go to jail.
 
 
