GHAZIABAD: Three   boys drowned in the   river near the Karheda bridge in Ghaziabad on Tuesday where they had entered the waters for bathing. 

 
 The bodies of two boys, Salim (15) and Aleem (13), were later found by local divers while efforts were underway to trace the third boy at the time this report was being filed.
 
 The third minor boy has been identified as 11-year-old Prateek. More than half-a-dozen life boats were pressed into service by National Disaster Response Force ( ) to trace Prateek’s body.
 
 According to police, all three   belong to   area where their parents do petty jobs. The boys had entered the river waters at around 1.30 pm around half-a-kilometre away from the Karheda Bridge in the direction of Raj Nagar Extension.
 
 “The boys are from extremely poor backgrounds and did not go to school. They had accompanied elders of their colony for the cremation of a minor girl on the banks of Hindon river on Monday afternoon. The elders left after the cremation but the boys stayed behind and entered the waters for bathing. The boys were probably swept away by the currents where the waters are really deep. Locals who saw them   informed police,” said local police outpost in-charge Ravindra Singh.
 
 A team of local divers was immediately sent by the police. It took the divers more than one hour to retrieve two bodies before the NDRF team arrived.
 
 According to the NDRF, an emergency call was received from the local police at 4.25 pm regarding the drowning. “A 10-member team of divers was rushed to the spot at 4.35 pm with life boats and other equipment. The team conducted searches over a radius of more than 1 km in the area. Another kid who had accompanied the three into the waters but had managed to return safely said the boys were swept away by the strong current of the river. We called off the search at 8.30 pm after informing the local administration about difficulties faced by our team members to carry out the operation in darkness. The search is likely to resume on Wednesday,” said second-in-command of 8th NDRF Battalion Roshan Singh Aswal.
 
 
