GREATER NOIDA: A 19-year-old boy was allegedly kidnapped by a tenant and then murdered in a   village when the repeated ransom calls he made to the victim’s father went unanswered.

 The body of the Class XII student,  , was found under a heap of garbage near a Shani temple on Friday. The accused   (25), who had been staying on rent in a one-room house owned by Tarun’s father for the past three years, was arrested along with an accomplice, Sajid.
 
 Police said Arun had admitted to killing Tarun because he and his accomplice had no place to keep the kidnapped boy through the night and feared he would approach the cops if released. Arun allegedly wanted to extort his landlord of Rs 20 lakh ever since he had organised a lavish wedding for one of his daughters in January.
 
 Tarun, who was a student of   in Tilapata, had left home in Gulistanpur village for a nearby Sai temple on Thursday evening. His father  , who runs a grocery store in the village, had gone to a relative’s wedding along with wife and two daughters.
 
 “I left one of the mobile phones at home. When I returned from the wedding around 9pm, there were 10 missed calls from Tarun’s number. I called back, but his phone was switched off,” Subhash said.
 
 The family launched a search for the boy but failed to find him in the neighbourhood. Subhash then lodged a missing person’s complaint. 
 
 Tarun’s sister Divya said Arun returned home around 9.30pm and even offered tea and water to the neighbours and relatives who had gathered to enquire about the boy’s whereabouts. “He pretended as if he did not know anything.” 
 
 Arun, who hails from Etawah, stayed with his wife and a three-year-old kid in one of the 10 rooms that Subhash had given on rent. He paid Rs 1,500 every month as house rent. 
 
 Police said they zeroed in on Arun after a scan of the boy’s call records revealed the accused had made at least 4-5 calls to his phone. “A police team raided Arun’s room and found him packing goods and valuables in a bag in order to flee. He was detained and questioned. The accused broke down and confessed to have murdered the boy. He named an accomplice, Sajid, who was also arrested,” said Pankaj Rai, the SHO of Surajpur police station.
 
 Arun, a labourer at a private factory, earned Rs 8,000 a month and wanted to make easy money. “I believed my landlord could easily shell out Rs 20 lakh if his son is kidnapped. I hatched the plot with Sajid and decided to kidnap Tarun.”
 
 The two allegedly waylaid Tarun while he was on his way to the temple on Thursday and forced him to have a soft drink laced with sedatives. They snatched his mobile phone and made the calls to his father, but the calls went unanswered. “We had no place to keep him. We feared he would go to the police if we released him. So, we strangled him to death with a rope and buried his body in a pile of garbage.” Arun said.
 
 
