KOLKATA: Overrun by construction  , which has spiralled in the past couple of years,   (KMC) is planning to set up a crusher unit at Dhapa for grinding chunks of concrete and other debris into grains, which can be transported back for use as base layer in road construction and repair.

 According to municipal solid waste management department, not only has the quantum of waste being dumped at Dhapa increased by 50% since 2015 from 4,000 tonnes a day to 6,000 tonnes, the composition of waste has altered dramatically with construction debris pie increasing by 400% from 800 tonnes a day to 2,400 tonnes per day.
 
 “Like any other metropolis, there is a lot of construction activities underway in Kolkata. This has increased manifold in the past couple of years with various Metro projects, flyovers, housing projects along the EM Bypass, Behala-Joka belt and other areas of Kolkata. In addition, hundreds of old houses in north, central and south Kolkata get torn down each year to make way for multistoried apartments. About 270 truck loads of construction waste is dumped in Dhapa daily. This is putting considerable strain on the already saturated site,” a KMC solid waste management department official said.
 
 The alarm bells on spurt in debris buttresses the concerns that citizens like writer Amit Chaudhuri have been voicing on the rampant destruction of the city’s built-heritage in localities like Hindustan Park, Lake Road, Purna Das Road, Fern Road, Jodhpur Park and New Alipore, where bungalows and two-storied houses are being torn down.
 
 The civic authority’s primary headache is the loss of precious space to construction debris when it should really be used for non-construction waste — both biodegradable from homes and markets. The space that should get filled in 10 days is getting saturated in six days due to the sheer volume of construction waste.
 
 To create a little more elbow room, KMC is exploring ways to utilize construction and demolition debris in road repair and maintenance work. It’s in talks with both Central Glass & Ceramic Research Institute (CGCRI) and Indian Road Congress for using it as a base layer in road construction and repair.
 
 Times View
 
 This is an innovative approach to solving an old problem. This can help the city significantly if everything goes according to plan.
 
 
