GURUGRAM: Nearly 85,000 government school teachers in Haryana have not received their   for the month of   owing to delay in creation of digital signatures of drawing and disbursing officers (DDOs), who are   in most schools. The task of creating digital signatures of DDOs has been entrusted with Haryana Electronics Development Corporation Limited (HARTRON).

 According to the government, DDOs must digitally record their signatures on pay slips of teachers in the pen drives provided to them, which will be then sent to the treasury department for approval for salary disbursal. Only following this, teachers will receive salaries.
 
 CN Bharti, president, Haryana Vidyalaya Adhyapak Sangh (HVAS), said, “Around 85,000 teachers haven’t received their salaries. Whose fault is this?”
 
 Only schools in three out of 21 districts have received the pen drives. Arjit Shastri, a teacher from Government Senior Secondary School, Fatehabad, said, “Schools in Fatehabad, Hisar and Sirsa have received the pen drives. Now, it will take another week for principals to get to know how they are used, as no training has been given to them on how to record their signatures digitally.”
 
 The digital signature is a type of a computer code, which can be used only by authorised persons as it requires a user ID and a password to access it.
 
 The finance department on April 19, 2017, had announced the implementation of digitisation of pay vouchers. This is being done to switch to e-vouchers, which the state government had decided to make mandatory. HARTRON was to procure digital signatures for all DDOs, for which around 20,000 pen drives were to be bought at a cost of Rs 5.5 crore.
 
 Mukesh Kumar, deputy district education officer, Gurugram, said, “District education officer Ravinder Alawadi is in Panchkula to get the pen drives. We are hopeful this issue will be resolved soon.” Rajiv Jain, the media adviser to CM Manohar Lal Khattar, told TOI that the education department had written to the finance department to exempt teachers from the digital signature clause for a month. “The finance department will issue a notification in a couple of days and the teachers will receive their salary right after that,” he said.
 
 Teachers, however, have planned to protest the delay in salary disbursal on April 19 in Panchkula.
 
 
