CHENNAI: Actor Rajinikanth, who was hesitating for decades to take the political plunge, would have got his first lessons by now on how dirty politics could be.

 On Friday, Tamil Nadu Fisheries minister D   chided Rajini, wondering as to whether he was an engineer to detect faults in the system. Jayakumar was reacting to Rajini’s comments on Thursday that “the   has to be set right in Tamil Nadu”. While   was referring to the political system, which has allegedly become corrupt in the state, Jayakumar gave it a spin to poke fun at the actor.
 
 Social media has been agog with memes making fun of Rajinikanth’s reference to “the system”.
 
 Jayakumar was talking to the media on Friday. “Let him clarify on what he means by ‘system not right’ and highlight the issues that are not right. We will set them right,” Jayakumar said.
 
 On Thursday, Rajini himself was responding to a question from the media as to whether the system was not right in the state or centre?
 
 “If Rajinikanth is so keen to set the system right, let him first visit Karnataka, which is refusing to release Cauvery water, and set the system right over there and get them to release Cauvery water,” Jayakumar said.
 
 Jayakumar’s intention is to drag Rajini into the Cauvery row, which he has been cautiously avoiding all these years as he started his career in Bengaluru as a bus conductor. The two neighbouring states have been fighting over sharing of Cauvery water and the   is expected to deliver the verdict any time.
 
 Jayakumar continued, asking the actor as to what he meant by ‘spiritual politics’. “Is he propagating religion-based politics?” the minister asked, before stressing that the   believed in secular politics, and followed the path of Anna (C N Annadurai).
 
 The actor’s talk about ‘spiritual politics’ in his address to his fans on December 31 in Chennai, in which he announced his entry into politics, had set the political tongues wagging. But Rajinikanth had clarified then that by ‘spiritual politics’ he meant politics that was above “caste, creed and religion”.
 
 
