JAIPUR: The  , especially markets such as  ,   and many more areas, are the most vulnerable to fire acidents.

 While much has been said by the Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) and even the local fire office on modernising the department, it is evident that they are not equipped to fight fire in congested city markets. Various trade associations too have written to the   (JDA) and JMC and made various representations. However, nothing has been done in this regard.
 
 The last time Walled City witnessed a raging fire was in 2011 in the heart of at Baba Harish Chandra Marg. A 14-year-old girl and her father died in the accident. Public representatives and former mayor Jyoti Khandelwal had then promised to strengthen fire offices. Promises included buying smaller fire tenders and bike fire tenders to handle fire in narrow lanes.
 
 “Cities like Chandigarh, which are planned cities, bike fire tenders. There are many chemical factories in the Walled City and many godowns of firecrackers. If a massive fire breaks out, it will be fatal,” said Jitesh Nandwani, a wholesale trader of groceries at Purohit Ji Ka Katla, on Sunday.
 
 Fire incidents in the heritage area are not frequent and thus the department does not have a clear picture idea of their requirements.
 
 When contacted, a senior fire officer, who was suspended after the Vidhyadhar Nagar fire in which five members of a family were killed, said, “It is easier for authorities to suspend and take action against us. But, are they serious about strengthening the fire office. Whenever a fire breaks out in Walled City, we use water tanks on terraces of high-rise buildings to control fire in the lanes as our vehicles cannot move into the area.”
 
 The specialized markets in the area such as Naataniyon Ka Raasta, Purohit Ji Ka Katla, Masale Walon Ka Raasta, Ghee Walon Ka Raasta are narrow.
 
 “We have godowns of LPG, firecrackers and even chemical factories. After the last fire incident, JMC had conducted a survey and given notices to factory owners not having firefighting devices. We have fire extinguishers. But they won’t be of help in case of a massive fire,” said Deepak Dhir, a trader in Purani Basti.
 
 
