THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: All   ( ) has rejected the state government’s request that no new engineering courses be granted to any of the existing engineering colleges in the state, for the time being.

 The AICTE regional council committee, chaired by AICTE south-western zonal committee chairman T  , however, agreed with the state’s argument that no more new engineering colleges should be set up in the state, at least for now.
 
 Generally, the AICTE central committee seldom makes changes in the decisions taken by the regional committees on state-centric issues.
 
 The state government, in its perspective plan for engineering education, submitted to the AICTE, had pointed out the large number of vacant seats in engineering colleges and the deteriorating quality of engineering education as the reasons for batting for a moratorium on new colleges and courses. The regional committee, which met here on Wednesday, questioned the rationale behind the state’s demand that no more courses should be sanctioned in existing colleges. As per the AICTE norms, only those institutions having accreditation of the   (NBA) are eligible to apply for new courses.
 
  
  
 The NBA accreditation has to be obtained departmentwise and only 15 colleges in the state have so far acquired accreditation for their courses. Among them, majority are in private sector. The regional committee, according to sources, asked how it would be possible to deny new courses to NBA-accredited colleges since the norm was applicable to engineering colleges across the state. Education department principal secretary   who represented the state at the regional committee meeting, however, argued that the AICTE should stop the practice of sanctioning new courses to all NBA-accredited institutions. “Rather than blindly reciprocating to the applications from NBA-accredited institutions, AICTE should sanction courses on need basis. If the AICTE is not in favour of rejecting applications for new courses in the state, it should at least ensure that strict norms are followed while sanctioning new courses,” she said.
 
 According to sources, applications of at least two engineering colleges, including one in government sector, for new courses are pending with the AICTE whereas nobody has approached AICTE with the request for permission to start new engineering colleges.
 
