HYDERABAD: A major fire broke out in the 80-year-old building housing the offices of the   state road transport authority ( ) at Khairatabad here on Wednesday. There were no casualties but a portion of the building, one of the last grand old structures reminiscing Hyderabad-British style construction, was gutted.

 The blaze started around 9.50am during the office time in the first floor of the building. Four fire tenders and nearly 35 fire personnel doused the flames.
 
 The   building is not an officially declared heritage structure. However, the tilted roofs and stone and lime construction, which was common during the Asaf Jahi-British residency era, certainly makes it a building of heritage value. According to nonagenarian Olympian Jeelani Pairak, the building was a private property where a senior police officer used to stay.
 
  
 Later, the state government took over it. After the formation of Hyderabad state in 1950 the office of the road transport department was located there. City historian Dr Mohammad Safiullah said the RTA building along with the Bella Vista (ASCI building) and Shah Manzil ( ) the official residence of the prime minister are of heritage value.
 
 “It is an old building dating back to the Nizam’s time. It is now used as a store room. The RTA office is shifted to a new building on the premises,” said M  , district fire officer.
 
 According to Reddy, apart from wooden furniture, a few documents and iron shelves were also destroyed in the fire. There was no one inside the building at time of fire.
 
 “Most officials, including me, were busy with Republic Day rehearsals when we got the SOS call. We suspect it must have taken place due to short circuit ,” said Reddy.
 
 However, this is the third fire incident that took place in the same building. Two days back, a minor fire was triggered at the ground floor of the same RTA building, which was of electrical origin.
 
 “In 2013, another major fire took place in the same building. We did not see any fire extinguisher inside the building. It took us three hours to douse the fire,” said Reddy. According to Joint Transport commissioner of RTA Khairatabad, the building’s fire extinguishers were not in working condition.
 
 “The building was being used by accountants mostly. No other officials work from there.
 
 “No data have been affected as all have been moved to computers, only old data documents got burnt. Few days back a pillar started falling off in the same building, that is why we have asked the officials to evacuate the building after that,” said C Ramesh, Joint Transport commissioner of RTA Khairatabad.
 
 The Panjagutta police have registered a fire accident case, while investigation has been taken up by fire officials.
 
 
