Mumbai: In both the ICSE and   announced on Monday, the top was crowded with 10-25 students from across the country tied in the first three rankings. The high number of top scorers has college principals in the city question the  , where an increasing number of students get a near-perfect score.

 “We haven’t used any forms of   and whatever scores the students have got this time are raw scores,” said Gerry Arathoon, the CEO of   for Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE). “The number of students securing a rank has bettered, but we think it is because students have done well, and not due to any steps taken by the council.” 
 
 Competition to get into the top-rung colleges in Mumbai will become tougher this year with several city schools recording a rise in their number of students scoring above 90%. The same will be seen in self-financed courses in degree colleges. 
 
 Ashok Wadia, principal of Jai Hind College, said the overcrowding at the top ranks in ISC will impact admissions in colleges. “The paper pattern they follow is simpler than that followed by the state board. Though these students do well in their exams in grade X, they do not score similar marks in the same subjects, especially languages, when they pass out from the state board in class XII. This is one major reason why now many parents want their children to continue in the same school. They want to ensure that their scores remain on the higher side to ensure better opportunities for higher studies,” said Wadia. He added that state board students may suffer at some of the sought-after colleges due the higher scores in  .
 
 Zeenat Bhojaboy, principal of Jamnabai Narsee School, said students score well in languages because the board focuses on training them in the functional aspect of the language and not in-depth grammar. “Other boards should also follow a similar pattern. Just last year, the council had organized several teacher training sessions to bring uniformity in the way the curriculum is delivered,” she said.
 
 Principal of KC College, Hemlata Bagla, said there will be overcrowding at the top and state board students will be a little affected by the high scoring students from the national board. “But our students outnumber them in the total count. More students take HSC than ISC,” she said. Bagla said the overcrowding in the top ranks in ISC could be due to the lack of moderation too.
 
 
