CUTTACK: Healthcare services in   medical college and hospital and  , the state's premier paediatric hospital, have been affected as house surgeons and senior residents on Monday joined the ceasework agitation by the junior doctors in the two hospitals. 

 At least 450 postgraduate and M.Ch students (a superspecialty course) have been boycotting hospital duties since February 19, demanding action against a senior doctor of urology department for allegedly engaging students in his private clinic. As their demands were not fulfilled, the postgraduate doctors union has intensified its agitation. 
 
 Expressing support to the issue, at least 150 senior residents on Saturday had joined the strike while on Monday 150 house surgeons abstained from work. The impact of the ceasework was clearly visible on   as patients had a harrowing time at the out-patient department (OPD) on Monday. Long queues of patients were seen outside the OPDs in both the hospitals, said a doctor.
 
 "Due to the strike, very few doctors are present in the OPD. I had to wait for three long hours for consulting a doctor," said  , a patient. Even in the wards, condition of patients is no better. 
 
 With an aim to improve the situation, health and family welfare department's additional secretary Surajit Das had issued directions that if the in-service senior residents and postgraduate students are involved in the strike, they will be reverted back to their parent cadre for disobedience under government servant conduct rules. However, his warning has no impact.
 
 "The inquiry committee has submitted its report to the state government still SCB authorities are yet to act on it. The ceasework will continue until our demands are met," said secretary of postgraduate doctors' union Phanidra Swain.
 
 The junior doctors are major workforce in the hospitals. "It's practically difficult to manage the situation in the absence of 700 junior doctors," said a senior doctor of the SCB.
 
 The hospital authorities have claimed that measures are being taken to deal with the situation. "To ensure that emergency services are not affected in any way, we have roped in doctors from periphery areas and leaves of all senior doctors have been cancelled. Besides, at least 56 senior doctors from Koraput and   have been deployed at SCB to manage the crowded wards like gynaecology and medicine," said SCB superintendent Dr Shyama Kanugo.
 
 
