It was a bright summer of 2002 when we were in Edinburgh, Scotland, along with a few tourist friends. After visiting a few places, we reached the famous Edinburgh Castle. We had engaged an elderly lady who guided us around the castle. She was neatly dressed and a knowledgeable person with a constant smile on her face. While taking us around the castle she gave us a lot of information about the castle its structure and other details. 

 But my mind wandered elsewhere-Shakespeare's 'Macbeth'. I vividly remembered that the story of   some thousand years ago had taken place somewhere here. In fact, the words began ringing in my head: 
 
 Double, double toil and trouble; 
 
 Fire burn and cauldron bubble. 
 
 Fillet of a fenny snake, 
 
 In the cauldron boil and bake. 
 
 The guide looked at me . She had probably noticed that I was not attentive. In fact, her face betrayed a shade of annoyance. I gathered myself and started listening to her. 
 
 A little later, she started walking towards another part of the castle. I caught up with her and whispered to her, "Will you please show me Birnam Wood and the heath where the three witches made their prophecies?" 
 
 The old lady's face lit up and she said in a quivering voice, "You-you want to know the places in  's Macbeth?" 
 
 "Sure I do," I replied with trepidation as I didn't know how others in the group would take it. 
 
 "Ok. Let me finish this regular thing," she said and proceeded to talk about the history of that part of the castle where we were standing. When the people were busy taking pictures, she turned to me and said, "A few places in Macbeth stand today as they were in those days, but many may be just fictitious. There has been research and attempts though to find which those places could be. We don't know whether those places exist." 
 
 "But can you show me the places which are identified?" I persisted. 
 
 "Sure. From where we are standing across the bay is all Fife. It was ruled by Macduff." 
 
 "Macbeth himself was thane of Cawdor and then Glamis," I said and the lady immediately understood that I wanted to know where these places were. 
 
 "Yes,   you seem to have studied Macbeth well," she said and continued, "Macbeth's own place is up north at   and Forres is on the east of Inverness. King Duncan lived in a palace in Forres. Macbeth was something like a governor of Cawdor. It is also close by. Inverness is a big place which you can visit." 
 
 "So Macbeth invited Duncan at Inverness and killed him," I refreshed my reading. 
 
 "Yes, he betrayed Duncan, killed him there at the behest of Lady Macbeth," she said with a smile. "Tell you what. The final fight took place at-" 
 
 " ," I blurted. "True. It is just across the bay from here. That was where Macduff killed Macbeth." 
 
 "And Birnam Wood? The three witches prophesied that when it starts moving there would be a threat to Macbeth's life isn't it?" I was curious to know where all those things in Macbeth had taken place. 
 
 "Oh Birnam Wood is between-you can say-Inverness and Dunsinane. There is a curious thing where the witches told Macbeth that he would be the king..." 
 
 "And he would be killed by a man not born of his mother because the witches had said: No man that's born of woman / Shall e'er have power upon thee." 
 
 "Yes. Also they had prophesied: Great Birnam Wood to high Dunsinane Hill/Shall come against him," the lady said enthusiastically. 
 
 "But you were telling me a curious thing," I persisted. 
 
 "You see in Forres a stone slab called Sueno's Stone is shown. It is believed that it was at that place that Macbeth first met the three witches." 
 
 And the conversation would have gone on and on had it not been for other tourists looking askance. So we curtailed our tete-a-tete. Later, as we waited for our bus, both of us resumed our talk. I quoted the lines: 
 
 Double, double toil and trouble; 
 
 Fire burn and caldron bubble. 
 
 She smiled and continued... 
 
 Fillet of a fenny snake,
 
 In the cauldron boil and bake.
 
 Eye of newt and toe of frog,
 
 Wool of bat and tongue of dog,
 
 Adder's fork and blind-worm's sting,
 
 Lizard's leg and owlet's wing,
 
 For a charm of powerful trouble,
 
 Like a hell-broth boil and bubble.
 
 "It is sad that people are forgetting Shakespeare. It has been years since anyone has asked me about places in Macbeth in the surroundings. Last when it happened as I recollect was a professor of English literature who wanted to know where things in Macbeth took place." The guide looked sad. 
 
 "But it is heartening to know that a person like you who comes from a faraway land remembers Shakespeare," she said. Thanking her, I moved towards the bus that appeared near the kerb.
 
 (The writer is an expert in innovation, product development and value engineering)
 
 
