NEW DELHI: The ongoing fierce cross-border firing duels between India and Pakistan, with artillery guns, anti-tank guided missiles and heavy mortars being regularly used by the two sides, have broken all records over the last 15 years.

 
 Latest defence ministry-Army data shows that if 860 ceasefire violations (CFVs) were recorded along the 778-km long Line of Control (LoC) in 2017, which itself was a new high, the number has reached 881 already this year. The overall tally zooms further north if the CFVs along the 198-km International Border (IB) in J&K, largely manned by the BSF, are also considered.
 
 Sources say the government may have gone in for unilateral suspension of counter-insurgency operations in J&K during   but there is no move to reduce the military pressure being exerted on Pakistan along the border as of now, said sources.
 
 Though defence minister   on Monday did say that any concrete peace overture from Pakistan will be taken seriously by India, sources stressed   would have to “demonstrate concrete action to stem its export of cross-border terror” for any serious de-escalation to take place.
 
 "Any comment on wanting peace will definitely be taken seriously," said  , on being asked about Pakistan   chief General  's recent statement that a peaceful resolution of bilateral disputes, including Kashmir, can be found through “comprehensive and meaningful dialogue” between the two countries.
 
 As for the suspension of operations against terrorists in the hinterland, Sitharaman said, "We (the armed forces) shall fully honour the policy which the home ministry on behalf of the government of India announced. The policy has clearly laid out how it is going to pan out and we shall abide by everything that was announced."
 
 The Army reluctantly agreed to suspending operations during Ramzan because it believes that similar initiatives failed in the past, with terror outfits using the intervals to regroup, re-arm and unleash further violence, as was earlier reported by TOI.
 
 But the defence establishment is in no mood to also ease its “pro-active” approach to “dominate” the LoC with Pakistan, with the targeted fire assaults and covert tactical operations, despite rising casualties on both sides. “The terror factory is Pakistan is alive and kicking. Almost 30 of the 50-55 terrorists who have tried to infiltrate into India this year have been successful,” said a senior officer.
 
 The border ceasefire, which came into force as a major CBM in November 2003, had already begun to fray after some initial years of calm. The “surgical strikes” against terror launch pads by Indian Special Forces in September 2016 triggered a fresh spike in cross-border hostilities. If 152 CFVs along the LoC were recorded in 2015, the number increased to 228 in 2016 and then jumped to 860 in 2017. In the first 141 days of this year, the number already stands at 881.
 
