LUCKNOW: A day after it issued an order to make the campus out of bounds on Valentine's Day, the LU administration on Wednesday locked all gates and deployed   to ensure that its orders were not violated. 

 This was for the first time on a holiday that police officials were seen taking rounds of the campus and all entry gates of   were locked.
 
 Though the university was closed on account of Mahashivaratri, it was for the first time that entry of anyone was barred.
 
 "Usually, police officials are seen on the campus only at the time of student protests or any other indiscipline. It was strange to see police deputed when the campus was completely locked and there was no student indiscipline," said PhD scholar Anil Yadav. 
 
 He said the reason was that the university wanted to keep students away from Valentine's Day celebration, terming it western influence. 
 
 "The university should not forget that computers and technology used on the campus are also western adoption. They have created an emergency-like situation on the campus," he added.
 
 Representatives of various student wings said that the university behaved like a "khap panchayat" ordering students not to enter the campus on Valentine's Day and had beefed up security as if a major crime incident or indiscipline was expected.
 
 "Even on holidays, professors, officials and non-teaching staff are present on the campus to complete their work. The university administration has deployed security as if the university was threatened in a terrorist activity," said Pooja Shukla of  . 
 
 On February 10, LU had issued an advisory, pouring cold water on the plans of students wanting to celebrate Valentine's Day on the campus. Chief proctor   termed the day a western influence and asked students not to enter the campus, else strict action would be taken.
 
 The advisory also appealed to parents to not send their wards to the university on Wednesday. 
 
 After the advisory received criticism and was trolled on social media, LU reissued a milder advisory on Tuesday, removing the term Valentine's Day and asking students to not roam on the campus on February 14 as the university will remain closed on account of Mahashivaratri.
 
