VELLORE: The commissionerate of municipal administration (CMA) has dismissed three employees of the   municipality from service for embezzling over 56 crore from the general fund and other funds allocated by the government under various schemes. 

 Sources in the CMA said that former manager of Vaniyambadi municipality  , former accountant   and assistant accountant  , who had been placed under suspension since October 27, 2014, were terminated from service for swindling over 56.77 crore from 2010 to 2014. 
 
 Regional director of municipal administration,   region, C   told TOI that the three employees of the Vaniyambadi municipality have been terminated from service on charges of "misappropriation of funds". "We received the orders from the CMA on Thursday (April 19). We served them on the trio subsequently," said Gopu, commissioner (in-charge) of Vaniyambadi municipality. Reliable sources said that the special audit is still going on. 
 
 "The audit team is yet to arrive at the final figure of the amount swindled by them. It may cross 70 crore," said an official on condition of anonymity. Another official said that the department took disciplinary action against the trio. Though there were provisions to take criminal action and initiate measures to recover the misappropriated fund, no such action was taken till date. "Such initiative should be decided by the higher authorities (CMA). As of now, there is no sign of such stern measure," he added. 
 
 The large-scale scam came to light in the mid-2014 after the cheques issued by the local body to the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board to complete the construction of the sumps under Combined Water Supply Scheme (CWSS) in the town returned due to insufficient funds in the municipality account. Following this, a departmental inquiry was ordered. It was found that the trio had diverted 2.48 crore to their personal account between July 26, 2013, and May 30, 2014, from the fund allocated for the CWSS project. Legal action was taken against them , though they deposited the amount in the local body's account. 
 
 
