NOIDA: A 30-year-old woman died at her parents’ house in Dadri’s Kot village on Sunday morning apparently after being tortured by her in-laws for dowry at the latter’s house in Faridabad. Guddi, who had married Rohit Bhadana, a school teacher from Pali village in Sector 55, Faridabad in 2011, was allegedly beaten up with a horsewhip and sharp-edged objects by a  , whom the in-laws allegedly used to take her to.

 According to Guddi’s family, her in-laws were demanding a Scorpio and Rs five lakh from them. Her family members have shared photos of the woman’s back which had red patches all over.
 
 A post-mortem report has confirmed that she had “no external injury” even as her viscera and blood samples have been preserved for examination, sources said. The report also revealed that the woman had been operated in the stomach and had undergone an intestinal colostomy a few years back, they said. The samples will now be sent to the government   to check the exact cause of her death.
 
 Birender Singh, Guddi’s elder brother, told TOI that at the time of her marriage, they had given an Alto car, jewellery and Rs 2.71 lakh as dowry.
 
 “However, soon after the wedding, her in-laws started demanding a Scorpio and Rs five lakh. Initially my sister used to hide these things from us but later we realised that the she was being harassed,” he said.
 
 In a written complaint to police, her father Deshraj Singh said that after Guddi reported the troubles to him, he collected Rs 1 lakh and gave it to the in-laws requesting them not to trouble his daughter again. 
 
 “In March 2013, the in-laws had beaten up my daughter and left her semi-clad outside our village. She was told that she should not return till we provide a Scorpio and cash or they will get their son married to another girl,” he said in his complaint to police. It further says that Guddi was taken back when an air conditioner and Rs 50,000 were given to the in-laws by the woman’s family.
 
 Guddi and Rohit have a five-year-old son named Shivam who stays with her in-laws. According to Birender, for the past few days, Guddi was being taken to a tantrik and was made to drink medicines given by him.
 
 The complaint mentions that on May 5, her father received a call from Guddi’s father-in-law Karan Singh who said that they have shown her to a tantrik and that she was possessed by a ghost.
 
 “He said that her treatment would incur Rs 2 lakh,” the complaint says.
 
 On May 8, the woman's family brought her to their house in Kot in  . She expired around 7 am on Sunday.
 
 Birender said that she was taken to Mohan Swaroop hospital in Dadri and Holy Family hospital in Delhi. “Both the hospitals ruled out any disease,” he said.
 
 However, the police have refused to accept the complaint saying that they would file an FIR only after getting the post-mortem report. 
 
 SHO, Dadri, Shavez Khan told TOI that the woman was suffering from cancer and died of the same.
 
 “We have not received any written complaint so far. I only received a call from the woman’s brother who said that they suspected that Guddi had died of unnatural causes. The body has been sent for post mortem. If there is anything in the post mortem report that suggests unnatural causes of death, we will lodge an FIR,” he said.
 
 A two-member panel of doctors which had been formed to conduct the post-mortem on the woman’s body had to wait for almost three hours as the mortury’s electricity connection could not be fixed.
 
 The post-mortem could be conducted only around 9 pm on Sunday.
 
 
