He’s building bridges of a different kind in London and has brought relief to several distressed   in the   over the past decade.

 His name is  , administration officer at the  , London, and presently the only Goan among 350-odd staff at the embassy.
 
 Son of Francisco and Anita Barreto from Khorlim, Mapusa, Clayton studied at New Goa High School, graduated at St Xavier’s College, and post-graduated with a master’s degree in International Relations at Goa University.
 
 After a brief stint with the British deputy high commission in Goa, Clayton moved to London with his wife Dione de Souza Barreto where he underwent several interviews and tests to qualify for his current role at the high commission.
 
 Says councillor Rabi Martins, vice-chairman of Watford Borough Council, “Clayton is a first-rate ambassador for Indians in the UK. He has been instrumental in raising the profile of the UK Goan community within the higher echelons of the embassy, the Indian diaspora as well as the host community. He has much more to contribute to the commission’s desire to foster closer links between UK and Goa.”
 
 Senior officials at the Indian embassy concur. Says A S Rajan, minister (co-ordination) also in-charge of diaspora at the embassy, “Clayton has bridged the gap. If it was not for him, I don’t think we would have an understanding of the large Goan presence and their needs in the UK.”
 
 The lone Goenkar in the Indian embassy has also assisted the Goan Welfare Society, UK, to repatriate bodies as well as distressed Goans to Goa.
 
 “Apart from putting us in touch with respective high commission officials to resolve issues that arise, Clayton goes out of his way to help Goans who have difficulty with their respective needs,” says Flavio Gracias, chair of trustees at the society.
 
 Dr Lauren Cruz, who recently shifted from London to Toronto, Canada, says that Clayton helped her cut through bureaucratic delays in getting her family’s OCI (Overseas Citizen of India) card and visa matters resolved quickly. 
 
 Clayton has also touched the lives of many Goans outside the embassy as well.
 
 On her first day in UK in January 2015, Regina Dias was left in the lurch, as a student without accommodation. “He made my problem his life mission. Within two hours, he sent me contacts of people who were willing to accommodate me,” says Dias.
 
 Fr Patrick D’Souza, representing the Goan Chaplains in the UK, says, “Clayton is very much involved with his local parish and Goan Chaplaincy. He recognises the need of an individual and helps them out if he can or directs them to the concerned office.”
 
 “Goa is very close to my heart,” says Clayton, “had it not been for my financial constraints, I would have never moved abroad. Being able to reach out to my fellow Goans keeps that ‘Goenkarponn’ alive in me.”
 
 
