KOLKATA: Is Kolkata getting regressive? That’s the question the entire nation has been asking since reports of moral policing went viral on Monday evening. Many of those who protested the moral polices insist that this should be treated as a stray incident. Be it public display of affection or freedom of verbal expression, most Kolkatans believe the city doesn’t interfere with individual choices.

 
  
 
 As a mark of protest against the Metro incident, author Srijato put up a photograph where he is seeing planting a kiss on the cheek of his wife Durba. Not known to publicly display his emotions, Srijato’s post stood out. “I did it to protest what had happened,” he said. Did he get trolled for doing so? “Some tried to put forward an argument that this isn’t in our culture. But they were trolled badly on my   wall,” Srijato said.
 
 According to producer Mahendra Soni, who launched the ‘Metrote Alingon’ campaign after Monday’s incident, would like to believe that the Metro event is no yardstick to determine if Kolkata’s ‘bhadralok’ veneer stands exposed. “As exhibitors, we own 10 screens across Bengal. It’s common for youngsters to be close when they are watching movies. I haven’t ever come across any moral police trying to be judgemental about this. The average elderly people in the city won’t go and bash up a couple inside a theatre if they embrace each other,” Soni said. That also explains why the page with ‘Metrote Alingon’ campaign #hoyejak went viral within hours of its launch. “We had 15,000 shares of the campaign in eight hours,” Soni said.
 
 Riddhiman Dutta Roy, an   and Applications student who was part of the #HokAlingon campaign in front of the Tollygunge Metro station, is apprehensive about the growing intolerance in the city. “People do pass comments but, I don’t think a couple can get bashed up in Kolkata again for hugging in public. Monday’s incident, in that sense, was an exception,” Dutta Roy said.
 
 Srijato has a fitting reply to Kolkata’s new critics who insist that the city is now subscribing to a culture of impunity. “If Kolkata was regressive, people wouldn’t have batted an eyelid after the moral police went overboard. Having travelled across India and even abroad, I vouch for the fact that this city still retains its cosmopolitan flavour. If two consenting adults hug each other in public, Kolkata will not disturb them. The Metro incident is an aberration and we must protest,” Srijato said.
 
 Tumpa Mukherjee, assistant professor of sociology at Women’s Christian College, remembered an incident she was witness to on Tuesday afternoon. “My friend and I saw a young couple walk down the Lake Avenue neighbourhood hugging each other. They walked through the bylanes. There were many bystanders and no one gawked at them. I’ve been living in south Kolkata for 35 years now. Stray incidents shouldn’t portray the city in a negative light.”
 
 
