KOCHI: A police team with the help of local youths on Friday arrested the   who murdered Father  , the rector of St Thomas Church, Malayattoor, a prominent pilgrim centre. 

 He was arrested from around three kilometres away from Adivaram. 
 
 The accused, Johny Vattekkadan, came to know of the priest's death on Thursday afternoon and had attempted suicide by hanging from a tree using his dhoti, police said. 
 
 The man, who was on the run following the attack on the priest, was apprehended when he came to a village near the woods looking for water.
 
 Police officers said the attack on the priest was pre-planned and did not happen in a fit of rage. "He had kept his gold chain at home before coming to attack the priest. He attacked him even as another person tried to dissuade him. It seems he wasn't aiming for the thighs," said  , circle inspector, Kalady.
 
 The accused, who went hiding in the forest after committing the crime, was familiar with the area, officers said. He had spent time in a shed attached to a rubber plantation as well. 
 
 "Johny came to know about the priest's death only at around 5pm on Thursday. He had approached the house of a woman seeking a phone and was informed about the death by her. A hefty man, he had tried to commit suicide by hanging from a tree using the dhoti. However, it got torn due to his weight. It seems he couldn't make another attempt and we caught him soon after," said Baiju Paulose, Perumbavoor circle inspector. 
 
 The police team also found the knife he used to attack the priest. "He was arrested at around 1.30pm after a thorough search of the area by the police and the local residents," said G Venu, Perumbavoor DSP. 
 
 Police officers said Johny has given a statement that he attacked the priest for ordering his suspension from the post of sexton. "He was worried that he would lose the position and the attack was for exacting revenge for the suspension," said a police officer. 
 
 Thousands on Friday paid homage to the deceased priest at Malayattoor pilgrim centre. The funeral ceremony will be held on Saturday.
 
 Father Thelekkattu was fatally atacked on the way of cross that leads to Kurushmudi. The priest who was injured in the legs suffered profuse bleeding and had to be carried downhill through the rocky pathway on Thursday morning. The injury on left thigh had result in rupturing of the femoral artery. The priest was under medication following cardiac ailments and this also contributed to the profuse bleeding, police sources said. 
 
 
