CHANDIGARH: The   government is all set to appoint retired Punjab and   high court judge Justice Surinder   as head of the proposed revenue commission, aimed at making existing land laws and procedures match modern agricultural and non-agricultural necessities. 

 Sources in the government confirmed to TOI that the concerned authorities had approached Justice   and he had given his consent to take up the appointment. "The required modalities for constitution of the commission and its terms and conditions will be finalised shortly," revealed a senior officer.
 
 Known for his meticulous approach, Justice Saron had superannuated on September 3 last year at the age of 62. Before his retirement, he also served as the acting Chief Justice of the high court for a brief period.
 
 He was heading a division bench that quashed the appointment of chief parliamentary secretaries in Punjab as well as Haryana governments in 2016 and 2017, respectively. Before he was elevated as the high court judge on July 2, 2002, Justice Saron remained as assistant advocate general, deputy advocate general and additional advocate general in Punjab advocate general office.
 
 The proposed revenue commission would be mandated to revisit the existing land Acts and to examine the need for new Acts. The commission can also suggest amendments in the existing laws for legalizing land lease practices to provide a firm basis for a modern high value agriculture or horticulture in place of current mono-culture of wheat-paddy. Punjab financial commissioner revenue   on Monday revealed that the state government wants the revenue commission to explore the possibility of replacing the current practice of presumptive ownership of land with appropriate legal title.
 
 Focusing on making the revenue administration more accountable to the public, the state government is planning to simplify the procedure by laying special emphasis on private or family partitions so as to reflect such cases in the revenue records. The revenue department also aims to dispose of evacuee or nazool lands in a transparent manner. The department is also focusing on modernization and digitization of all revenue records over a period of time in phased manner.
 
 
