Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) Dhantoli Zone has proposed that the inspectors who are alleged to have demanded money from a showroom be transferred and disciplinary action be initiated against them. BJP corporators Vijay Chutele and Narendra ‘Balya’ Borkar had lodged the complaint against assistant civil engineer Shyam Dharmamali and sanitary worker Sanjay Luderkar to municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal.

 The suspension of tax inspector Anand Fulzele, of Laxmi Nagar zone, for allegedly misappropriation of property tax amount has been approved by the commissioner.
 
 On Thursday, TOI had reported about the complaint by Chutele and Borkar. The corporators had alleged that Dharmamali and Luderkar had demanded Rs2 lakh on behalf of Chutele from the owner of a car showroom.
 
 Rathod submitted a proposal about the punishment to be meted out to the duo to the general administration department which is expected to take a decision on Friday. 
 
 Alleging a conspiracy against him, Dharmamali told TOI that Chutele is “taking revenge” for having acted against encroachers on Great Nag Road. “Commercial establishments had made unauthorized constructions and also encroached on footpaths. I am taking regular action against them. The owner of the car showroom situated near Mokshadham has constructed a ramp up over the footpath, which is against the norms. I asked him to remove the encroachment. Chutele asked me not to take action against some commercial establishments,” he said.
 
 Chutele did not respond to TOI’s calls.
 
 Borkar said Dharmamali went to the car showroom three times in the last month and asked for money. “The owner resides next to my house. He complained to me. I spoke to Dharmamali once and asked him not to demand money. Yet, he did so. Chutele had lodged a complaint against Dharmamali twice in the past but no action was taken against him,” he said.
 
 Fulzele’s suspension order is likely to be issued on Friday. He had generated receipts from property tax online system after receiving tax amount from some taxpayers but later cancelled it.
 
 Assistant commissioner (property tax) Milind Meshram said, “Fulzele embezzled tax amount by cancelling receipts in 2015-16. We came to know about it following complaints from taxpayers,” he said.
 
 
