KOLKATA: One frame, shot on a mobile phone, shows two first-year college students sitting and chatting on the railway tracks. The next frame is blurred and there is a deafening noise as the cell phone falls from someone’s hands. The last frame is that of stone chips that you see on railway tracks. Then there is silence — and darkness — as the video ends abruptly.

 Two first-year college students, both 19 years old, died in those couple of seconds that were recorded by their friend on a mobile phone. Saisab Dolui and   ended up as two more lives lost to the senseless craze of taking pictures with a train in the background. Their friend, Soumyadip Santra, was admitted to R G Kar Hospital with serious injuries.
 
 Dolui, Tanti and Santra, all residents of   in Panihati, North 24-Parganas, went to neighbouring colleges — Surendranath and Bangabasi — near   station. Cops, who reconstructed the chain of events that led to the deaths, said the three took a train from Sealdah on Monday afternoon and then got off at either Belgharia or Dum Dum station and then walked to a lonely stretch — near Bediapara — that afforded a view of a bridge over the railway tracks.
 
 Santra, who managed to talk to cops briefly, said Dolui and Tanti were shooting “a short film” and asked him to record them talking on the railway tracks. Dolui and Tanti sat on the tracks and chatted as Santra started recording their conversation. No one noticed a down Naihati-Budge Budge train that was bearing down on them. Santra, who was shooting, was the first to notice the train and jumped out of its way but his friends did not have so much time.
 
 Locals living along the railway tracks heard Santra screaming and found him lying a few feet from the tracks. Both Dolui and Tanti were dead.
 
 Locals first called cops, who took Santra to the Dum Dum Municipal Hospital. He was later referred to R G Kar hospital.
 
 The incident occurred less than three weeks after a 25-year-old Hyderabad student was seriously injured after being hit by a train near the Borabanda railway station while he was shooting a   video. The January 24 incident prompted railway minister Piyush Goyal to issue an appeal the next day, urging people to refrain from such stunts on railway tracks. Sealdah railway police superintendent Ashesh Kumar Biswas said: “We have been unable to question Santra properly to establish the exact sequence of events.”
 
  “However, the video clip shot on the cellphone, which was found close to the spot, showed the two victims sitting and chatting on the railway tracks, while the Santra was possibly shooting them. But only a detailed probe will be able to confirm the exact sequence of events. Our investigation is on,” he added.
 
 
