Some mesmerising performances, presence of celebrity guests and the blessings of the rain god, the Sankat Mochan Music Festival, had it all. The much-awaited six-day musical event for the music lovers in Banaras, turned out be a well-attended affair with audience staying all night to enjoy some soul stirring performances.
The event kick started with a performance of celebrated Odissi danseuse   who narrated the tale of vishpaan of Lord Shiva. Bhajan samrat Anup Jalota was the other attraction of the inaugural day. The highlight of the second day was Pt  , who, with the magic of his talent, kept the audience regaled. This was followed by a legendary performance by Pt Jasraj who presented an aradhana of Lord Hanuman in raag Jaijaiwanti followed by other compositions.
 
 
  
  Sonu Nigam (BCCL/ Unmesh Pandey and Arvind Kumar)
 
  
  Dr L Subramaniam (BCCL/ Unmesh Pandey and Arvind Kumar)
 
  
  Mahanth Prof   (L) and   (BCCL/ Unmesh Pandey and Arvind Kumar)
 
  
    (BCCL/ Unmesh Pandey and Arvind Kumar)
 
 Ace flautist   regaled the audience on the third day of the festival. He began with raag Maru Bihag and then went to play devotional songs, including Om Jai Jagdish Hare on the instrument.
 The mystical impact of music on the weather was also seen during the festival as ace musician Niladri Kumar played raag Malhar on sitar on the fourth day of the festival and it started to rain! The fifth day had the presence of  , who along with his band, had the audience asking for more. The other artists of the evening were Kucchipudi exponent Vanaja Uday and vocalist Ulhas Kashalkar .
 
  
  Pt Hariprasad Chaurasia (BCCL/ Unmesh Pandey and Arvind Kumar)
 
  
  Pt Jasraj (BCCL/ Unmesh Pandey and Arvind Kumar)
 
  
  Pt Tarun Bhattacharya (BCCL/ Unmesh Pandey and Arvind Kumar)
 
  
    (BCCL/ Unmesh Pandey and Arvind Kumar)
  
  Sivamani (BCCL/ Unmesh Pandey and Arvind Kumar)
 
 The last day of the festival also witnessed some commendable performances by Ratikant, Sujata Mahapatra, Odissi exponent,  , vocalist, among others
 The festival also saw some celebrity guests. Ace Bollywood singer Sonu Nigam evoked loud cheers with his presence. As he was called on stage to be honoured by Prof Vishambhar Nath Mishra, Mahant, Sankat Mochan Temple , loud requests were made for him to croon some lines and he happily sang  , as the audience clapped along .
 
  
  Yella Venkateswara Rao (BCCL/ Unmesh Pandey and Arvind Kumar)
 
  
  Shiraz Ali Khan (BCCL/ Unmesh Pandey and Arvind Kumar)
 
  
  Shraddha Singh and Sonal Man Singh (BCCL/ Unmesh Pandey and Arvind Kumar)
 
 Prominent lyricist and writer Javed Akhtar was also given the Shanti Doot title on the occasion. Speaking on various issues including secularism, he said "This music festival and those who come to enjoy music here is the real India. We should learn from the artists who have contributed in our rich music traditions. The only religion for them is music."
  
  Surabhi Singh and Vasundhara (BCCL/ Unmesh Pandey and Arvind Kumar)
 
  
  Vishal Krishna, Yaiv and Nicole (BCCL/ Unmesh Pandey and Arvind Kumar)
 
  
  Saurav Mishra (L) and Gaurav Mishra (BCCL/ Unmesh Pandey and Arvind Kumar)
 
