HYDERABAD: A majority of the 3,000 additional convenor quota   added to the kitty this year have been earmarked for branches such as information technology,   engineering, and   and engineering, shows data available with the   commissionerate of collegiate education.

 
 The engineering seat count in Telangana has seen a rise this time, after going through a year-on-year dip over the last four years. The total number of seats on offer, across all colleges affiliated to various universities in the state, in 2018 stands at 95,235 as opposed to 91,076 seats that were available in 2017.
 
 
  
 
 Of them, 84,124 seats are available in colleges affiliated to the Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad (JNTUH), alone.
 
 As per official figures, there
 
 are 882 additional seats in information technology, 410 in civil engineering, 378 in computer science and engineering, 340 in electronics and communication engineering, 84 in electronics and computer engineering, 42 in industrial production engineering and 10 in mechanical engineering.
 
 “Due to certain shortcomings, some colleges were not granted permission to enhance their intake in various branches late year. The problems included appointment of PhD faculty members, laboratory equipment. This year, the colleges fulfilled all the norms and secured permission, resulting in rise in number of seats,” said N Yadaiah, registrar of JNTU-H.
 
 The only branch that’s observed a slight drop in seat count is electrical and electronics engineering — from 8,412 to 8,373. However, the intake for other branches such as chemical engineering, aeronautical engineering, metallurgical engineering, among others, has remained the same. This year, two new courses — petroleum engineering and technology and pharmaceutical engineering — have been added to the list off 33 branches on offer as against 29 branches last year. The intake for the two new courses is 42 students each.
 
 Data suggests that the number of engineering seats on offer in the state is slightly higher than the number of qualified candidates this year. There are 94,592 qualified candidates in the engineering stream undergoing counselling process.
 
 According to figures shared by Navin Mittal, commissioner of Telangana collegiate education department, 34,652 candidates from rank 1to 54,000 have completed the certificate verification process at 38 help line centres across the state. “Candidates who have attended the certificate verification process can exercise options upto June 5,” said Mittal.
 
 
