HYDERABAD: In a sign of the realty sector's revival in the city, the   ( ) netted Rs 352 crore through auction of open plots. 

 Among 210 plots put up for auction, the authority received the highest bids of Rs 1.53 lakh per square yard for plots in Attapur against the up set price of Rs 20,000 per sq yard. The lowest bid was received for plots in   near Ghatkesar at Rs 4,500 per sq yard against the up set price of Rs 4,000 per sq yard. 
 
 According to officials, this is the highest amount HMDA collected for plot auction in the last 12 years. In 2006, the then Hyderabad Urban Development Authority ( ) earned Rs 436 crore by auctioning 377 plots. In the subsequent years, all HMDA got was a maximum Rs 125 crore. The fall was attributed to the slow down in realty. 
 
 In this auction, Rs 352 crore was earned through an auction of only 189 plots. HMDA earned Rs 115 crore through auction of 25 plots in Chandanagar, Madhapur and Nallgandla. 
 
  Attapur got the highest bid amount surpassing upmarket Madhapur (sector I) rate where it got Rs 1.52 lakh per sq yard. The highest bid in Madhapur was Rs 1.19 lakh per sq yard while a plot in   received Rs 1.11 lakh per sq yard. 
 
 "Of the 229 plots proposed, 19 plots were removed from the auction due to disputes and other reasons. In the auction, 21 plots were unsold in places like Dhulapally, Anantaram and Jalpally. The amount earned would be utilized for various developmental works," HMDA metropolitan commissioner T Chiranjeevulu told TOI. 
 
 HMDA conducted e-auction, bidding through online, for 210 open plots in various locations such as Miyapur, Chandanagar, Jubilee Hills, Nallagandla, Attapur, Tellapur, Vanasthalipuram, Shaikpet, Shanakrpally, Ananthara, Bachupally, Dhoolapally, Dundigal, Bhongir, Ghatkesar and Pocharam. The e-auction was conducted between April 22 to April 24.
 
 Even before the auction was held, there was overwhelming response from the public with over 1,000 registrations. The authority had expected good response for plots auction as ownership disputes do not arise for government plots and they don't have to pay any Layout Regularization fees.
 
 Buoyed with the response, HMDA is gearing up for more auctions in the future. Principal secretary of municipal administration department Arvind Kumar congratulated and appreciated HMDA metropolitan commissioner Chiranjeevulu and other staff for the auction's success. 
 
 He directed the Chiranjeevulu to plan for auction of plots in Uppal Bhagat layout near Nagole soon.
 
