PANAJI: Goa police on Tuesday arrested a man from Anjuna for allegedly molesting a US national after her post about the incident went viral on social media.

 The woman was in Mumbai on Monday evening from where she uploaded a post onto a social networking website, alleging that she was molested by a bike rider at Morjim during the Republic Day weekend. After the post went viral, Anjuna police contacted the woman and sought details of the incident. Anjuna police detained the accused, Isidore  , and handed over the case to Pernem police station as the allegedincident took place in Pernem police jurisdiction.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Pernem police inspector   said that Fernandes, 44, resident of Anjuna, has been arrested for allegedly molesting the woman. Police registered the first information report under Sections 354 and 354 A of the Indian Penal Code.
 
 ‘I was in Goa for about 48 hours over the Indian Republic Day weekend and I got sexually assaulted by my bike driver. He calls himself Ezy M and he is dangerous,’ the woman said, in her post on social media.
 
 
 
 
 ‘I was at the Arpora night market and it is here that I hired this man to drive me to   where I was having dinner,’ she further stated. The woman said that Fernandes was friendly and she saw nothing wrong in having a safe, platonic conversation with him.
 
 On reaching Baga, the woman stated that Fernandes asked her where she was staying and further offered her a good rate to take her back to her hotel. ‘He waited for two hours for me. He picked me up  , and when we were making our way back to my hotel in Morjim, he started misbehaving,’ she stated.
 
 ‘He asked me if I would give him a kiss and obviously, I said no. I tried to keep it light and suggested he “keep it professional”. I noticed that he kept taking turns into lanes that weren’t on our route and he kept saying that they were shortcuts, but it had already been 40 minutes on his bike,’ she stated.
 
 The woman alleged that Fernandes started getting physical with her during the ride despite her constantly telling him to “keep it professional”. She then alleged that Fernandes stopped the bike and molested her.
 
 ‘I got off the bike, threw a 500 rupee note at him and ran down the street. Thankfully, I got to a busy main road and he lost me. But I'm shaken. If this guy does not get pulled up for what he did, he will get bolder and do something even worse the next time,’ the woman stated.
 
 ‘I will go back to Goa again someday and try and not let this   of such a beautiful place. But let’s try and make it safer than it is,’ she added.
 
