JAIPUR: Battered real estate sector in the   wanted some relief from the Budget but there was no announcements that would help revive the sector. The proposal to set up an Affordable Housing Fund (AHF) in   is nothing new, experts said on Friday.

 Under Prime Minister Awas Scheme Rural, 51 lakhs houses in 2017-18 and 51 lakh houses during 2018-19, which is more than one crore houses, will be constructed exclusively in rural areas, finance minister   said while announcing the Budget on Thursday.
 
 The government provides subsidies ranging from Rs 2.10 lakh to Rs 2.70 lakh under the scheme and the proposed Rs 1 lakh crore fund is expected to meet the funding needs of the existing schemes.
 
 “There is nothing new in this announcement. When the scheme was first announced, the government committed the financial resources. Setting up a Rs 1 lakh crore fund gives the impression that it is a new measure which is not the case,” said  , director of a leading real estate company in the city.
 
 Housing prices in the Pink City has crashed to multi-year lows, according to National Housing Bank’s   index. Demonetisation and introduction of GST added further stress to the sector. In the last year’s Budget, the government had extended infrastructure status to affordable housing for providing housing for all by 2022.
 
 But Mishra said, “The FM could have come out with more clarity about the infra status provided to EWS/LIG housing as it has remained a mere announcement of the last Budget and banks are not offering the rate of credit that is ought to be provided to infra projects.”
 
 Due to slump in real estate, there are cases where genuine hardship is faced by sellers and buyers. On many occasions the DLC/circle rate is higher than the market rate. The FM has announced that in cases where the circle rate does not exceed 5% of the sale consideration, no addition will be done by income tax authorities.
 
 Mishra said this a small step and will not lead to any improvement in sentiment. “This is like correcting an anomaly and not intended at reviving the sector,” added Mishra.
 
 The builders are disappointed that the finance minister has ignored a sector that has multiple economic impact on other industries. After the demonetization, the sector witnessed significant job losses and is still to come to terms with it.
 
 Ajay Modi, another real estate developer in the city said that it is really demoralizing that an important sector like real estate is not on the priority of the government.
 
 
