TUTICORIN: Chief minister Edappadi K Palanisami has sought a detailed report on the   row from the Tuticorin district administration. The report will soon be sent to him and we expect a good decision to be taken by the chief minister, minister for information and publicity   told reporters in Tuticorin on Tuesday.

 The minister said that upon getting instructions from the chief minister, the minister and the collector would visit the villagers of  , located close to Sterlite, who are continuing their protests to stop the expansion of Sterlite and permanently stop copper production in the plant.
 
 “It was the   (NGT) that gave clearance for the plant to be established and not the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB),” the minister said. He added that the TNPCB has sent a notice to SIPCOT, Tuticorin, seeking explanation on the industrial activities on the site without obtaining permission from TNPCB.
 
 Meanwhile, an image file of a notice served by the TNPCB to the SIPCOT in Tuticorin is going viral on social media. The letter dated April 2 has asked for an explanation from SIPCOT within 15 days on the grounds on which industrial activities are carried out in the industrial estate without obtaining clearance from the TNPCB.
 
 Interestingly, the projection officer of SIPCOT in Tuticorin A S Leo, who has been named as the respondent in the showcause notice served by the TNPCB, told TOI that he did not get the notice till Tuesday evening. “Since I am unaware of the contents of the notice I am not able to comment on it,” he said.
 
 The project officer added that officials in the SIPCOT head office in Chennai alone are authorised to respond to RTI petitions or such official queries.
 
 On Monday, responding to issues pertaining to the protests and petitions against Sterlite, collector   told reporters that all complaints against Sterlite are sent to the government. He reassured that the government is studying them and is closely monitoring the issue and will soon come out with a good decision. The collector recalled that last week the sub-collector inspected Sterlite and the village where the protest is going on.
 
 
 
 Even as protests against Sterlite Industries are gaining ground in Tuticorin district, the company has knocked on the doors of the Madras high court Madurai bench seeking police protection to its employees, plant and machinery on the premises. Vedanta Limited Unit (Sterlite Copper) general manager (legal) A Satyapriya has filed the petition. It is expected that the case would be come up for hearing on Wednesday. The petitioner said that Sterlite Copper had been functioning in Tuticorin district for 20 years and had been an important source of revenue to the state. The company, which operates a 400KTPA copper smelter plant, is going to commission a second unit with the same capacity adjacent to the existing unit in the middle of 2019. The company has started work after obtaining all necessary approvals and clearances from the ministry of environment and forest and from the departments of pollution control board, fire, health and local planning authority. The company has employed more than 3,500 people directly and indirectly.
 
 
