LUCKNOW/NEW DELHI:   suffered a huge setback on Wednesday when it lost the prestige bypolls for Gorakhpur and Phulpur Lok Sabha seats in UP to the SP-BSP alliance, and could not take advantage of its resurrected alliance with JD(U) to wrest the Araria Lok Sabha seat in Bihar from RJD. The two UP seats were vacated by chief minister Yogi Adityanath and deputy CM Keshav Maurya.

 The outcome sends out a warning signal to BJP about its strength in two states that are critical to its prospects of staying in office in Delhi beyond its current term. It could also put a fresh question mark over its unquestioned frontrunner status for the next Lok Sabha polls, spoiling the party over the recent saffron successes in the north-east.
  
  
 In Gorakhpur, SP candidate Pravin Nishad defeated BJP’s Upendra Shukla by a margin of around 22,000 votes,
 
 cornering 49% of the total votes. Shukla received around 46%. Likewise, in Phulpur, SP candidate Nagendra Singh Patel defeated BJP's Kaushalendra Patel by a margin of almost 60,000 votes, receiving around 47% of votes polled. This was higher in comparison to 2014, when vote share of the SP and BSP taken together was around 37% on both seats. BJP had a vote share of 52% on both the seats.
 
 The twin victories have taken SP's tally in Lok Sabha to seven and will encourage the party and BSP to try the “winning formula” in the 2019 polls, an estimate reinforced by SP chief   Yadav’s “thanksgiving visit” to  , who has bounced back as a factor, defying the obituaries which were penned after she drew a blank in LS polls and finished a miserable third in assembly elections.
 
 
 
 
 
 The loss of Gorakhpur, the first since 1989, was a personal embarrassment for UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath who had scored five straight victories since 1998 from the seat, which derives its name from the Gorakhnath Math headed by him. Adityanath vacated his seat after his appointment as CM, causing the byelection, and the rebuff will serve to chasten those who had proclaimed him the second saffron icon after PM Narendra Modi.
 
 Keshav Maurya, deputy CM and the party’s prominent OBC face, had quit Phulpur seat after landing the number two job.
 
 SP’s wins in Gorakhpur and Phulpur were facilitated by its understanding with BSP, signifying the threat that the BJP might face should Akhilesh and Mayawati, with their committed following among Yadavs and other sections of OBCs and Dalits, decide to go into the 2019 polls as a front. The two parties had teamed up successfully in 1993 to thwart BJP at a time when the ‘Mandir’ factor had not waned.
 
 Their staunch constituencies assure them of the support of Muslims who overwhelmingly vote for the formation best positioned to defeat BJP. The saffron party’s landslides in UP — in 2014 when it won 71seats (73 if two won by its ally Apna Dal are taken into account) out of 80 Lok Sabha seats and, again, in last year’s assembly elections — were helped by a division in the opposition ranks and, to a lesser extent, the split in Muslim votes.
 
 In Gorakhpur, Congress’s Muslim candidate Sureetha Kareem won a meagre 2% votes, while community heavyweight Atiq Ahmad, who was in the Phulpur fray as an independent, could not take his vote share beyond 6.5%. The loss in Gorakhpur is especially shocking for the BJP since the seat had been associated with the prestige of Yogi who represented it as an MP five-time since 1998. Interestingly, this was for the first time since 1989 that BJP fielded a candidate, Upendra Shukla, who was not a direct choice of Gorakshnath temple, which is considered to be an important factor on the electoral outcomes in Gorakhpur. Yogi’s absence as a candidate not only deactivated the members of `Hindu Yuva Vahini’, the organisation founded by him, but also led a large chunk of Yadav and Nishad to shift their loyalty towards the opposition camp.
 
 Yogi had launched a campaign blitzkrieg single-handedly, addressing as many as many as 21rallies in Gorakhpur and Phulpur within a span of 15 days. Turning himself into the lone star campaigner, he was hardly assisted by any senior BJP leader. SP chief Akhilesh Yadav, on the other hand, addressed just one rally each in Gorakhpur and Phulpur. BSP chief Mayawati, despite her support to SP, stayed away from campaigning leaving the entire show to her party cadres.
 
 BJP's defeat also brought the spotlight on its choice of candidates for the two high stake seats. BJP's Gorakhpur candidate Upendra Shukla was not a direct choice of Gorakshnath temple, while in Phulpur, BJP para-dropped Kaushalendra Singh Patel, the former mayor of Varanasi, who apparently could not connect with the people in the otherwise OBC dominated constituency.
 
 Sources close to the CM claim that differences between the BJP government and the organization was one big factor behind the loss of the party. They reveal that the organizational hands of the BJP showed reluctance in campaigning to the extent that the campaign material, brochure of government’s achievements and resources were not even distributed to workers for their mobilization.
 
 The CM himself addressed 21 public meetings and functions, but the party severely lacked grass-roots workers. The RSS volunteers, who always play a key role in mobilising voters, were conspicuous by their absence. Besides, as candidate Upendra Shukla was not considers from Yogi camp, his socio-political outfit Hindu Yuva Vahini also did not go full-throttle into campaigning.
 
 Experts said that the byelection results could also turn the Mandal (caste based politics) vs Kamandal (religious politics) fiercer. Soon after coming to power in UP, the BJP has been giving a decisive push to its Hindutva card even as CM Yogi turned Hindu religious festivals like Diwali and Holi into high decibel cultural events. This was close on the heels of 2017 UP assembly elections when BJP, pushed the Hindutva agenda while muscling its way to cut through caste lines to consolidate various communities, including Dalits and MBCs, into its fold. BJP election campaign also saw its leaders launching sharp barbs against Mayawati and Akhilesh Yadav. CM Yogi called the SP and BSP as `saanp aur chhachundar' (snake and mole) and `chor-chor mausere bhai', while cabinet minister Nand Gopal Nandi went on to compare SP patriarch   with `Ravan', Akhilesh with `Megnaad' and Mayawati with `Surpnakha'.
 
