CHENNAI:   has been India’s best bet behind the stumps in Test cricket in recent times. The 33-year-old once again proved his credentials on Monday when he pouched his 10th catch of the contest, dismissing   off   in the second innings of the Cape Town Test, and breaking the record of the most dismissals in a Test by an Indian ’keeper. The 5ft, 8in ’keeper went past MS Dhoni’s nine dismissals, including a stumping, against Australia in Melbourne back in 2014.

 Playing his first Test on South African soil as a ’keeper, Saha’s glovework has been one of the highlights in India’s otherwise pathetic submission to the Proteas. He was never uncomfortable, looked balanced and showed composure against the pace and bounce of the pitch.
 
 Former India wicket-keeper   said that he was impressed with the manner in which Saha read the pitch and the ball movement. “I love Saha’s attitude and approach. The best aspect is his reading of the pitch. He anticipates and moves in the right direction and makes difficult catches appear easy. That shows how sharp his brain is. He might not have taken extraordinary catches but then it’s never a mean task to keep against the rising and moving ball. He never let the bowlers down on the pitch, which had equal amount of bounce and pace and was offering seam movement as well. His safe hands give the bowlers a lot of confidence and they can go full throttle. Like Dhoni, Saha has produced results for India, especially over the last couple of years,” Kirmani told TOI during an event here.
 
 The 68-year-old Kirmani feels superb fitness is key to Saha’s consistency. “Saha always had sound technique as a ’keeper but the way he has improved his fitness is amazing. He has a very well-balanced and athletic physique which has helped him to attain such fitness level. It was also possible because of his determination and discipline. If you see his career, he hardly got injured. That’s the reason he has performed so consistently,” the member of the 1983 World Cup winning squad said.
 
 Despite keeping the wickets well, Saha has struggled with the bat in both the innings, scoring a duck and eight runs. Kirmani said the gritty Saha needs to show the same determination in front of the stumps. “The only competition for Saha is Dinesh Karthik. He is an utility cricketer and a fantastic allrounder. He can bat at any position, is a brilliant fielder and can keep wickets. That makes him an automatic choice for all three formats. But Saha has been a regular in the Test side because he has made most of his opportunities. He has never been complacent. He has always been gritty and I feel Kohli appreciates his dedication and has given him the confidence to express himself. I am sure Saha will make most of the chances he will get next time and bat with more determination,” Kirmani said.
 
