MUMBAI: Enrolments in   schools, or classes I to VIII, across the state have seen an almost 3.2 lakh decrease in the past five years. By contrast, enrolments in   schools, or classes IX to XII, have seen a steep increase of over 10 lakh during the same period. But since enrolments for secondary   during the period make up just about a third of those for primary  , a large majority appears to have dropped out after elementary education. The state has attributed the fall in primary school enrolments to reducing birth rate. 

 The data, which was included in the   released last week, includes enrolments in state as well as privately run schools affiliated to national and international boards. In 2012-13, primary school enrolments stood at 1.6 crore, which dipped to 1.59 crore in 2017-18. Secondary enrolments, on the other hand, increased to 66.5 lakh in 2017-18 from 56.2 lakh in 2012-13—a jump of 18%. “In the past decade or more, due to efforts under the Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan, school enrolments have definitely increased. Additionally, parents now have aspirations that their children must go to school because this generation has received at least some form of education and understands the importance of it,” said a Pune-based education expert.
 
 The sample registration system survey shows the state’s birth rate—number of live births per a 1,000 population—fell to 16.7 in 2011 from 20.7 in 2001.
 
 On the decrease in primary school enrolment, education secretary Nandkumar said, “The birth rate has decreased in the past decade, which is the main reason for decreasing enrolments in the primary section. Meanwhile, the state is taking all efforts to bridge the gap between primary and secondary education. Our aim is bring down the dropout rate of girls till Class X to below 5%.” The overall dropout rate of secondary students in the state is approximately 12%.
 
 But experts said the enrolment numbers may not be a reflection of ground realities. “The data is collated on the basis of details submitted by schools on the number of students enrolled with them. A lot of schools, especially non-state board ones, do not provide necessary details. Even if the birth rate has reduced, it is still in the positive; as per our estimates, 2.3 crore students are enrolled in primary schools. The state has, in fact, taken some decisions like decreasing teacher positions for extra-curricular subjects etc, which could discourage students from going to school,” said J M Abhyankar, former state project director, Sarva Shikshan Abhiyan.
 
 
