CHENNAI : As   struggles from lack of capacity to add international flights, travellers fly via   to  , the far east, China and Australia this summer. There are only a few direct flights from Chennai to Bangkok, Kuala Lumpur and Singapore, the most popular international leisure destinations, which are not enough to handle the summer rush. Colombo, which is just an hour’s flight from Chennai, offers easy connectivity with one hour to two hours   time to these three cities and also to several other destinations on the east.

 Airline officials say that the flights from Chennai have more than 90% load during summer months as against the usual 70% and the rest of the travellers use Colombo to transit. Sri Lanka had been positioning Colombo as a hub airport and is also planning more expansion work.
 
 From Chennai, the Singapore route has the maximum flights, 55 flights a week, followed by Kuala Lumpur with 40 flights a week in May. However, there are just seven flights a week to Bangkok where Thai Airways has more than 80% load every day. As the number of flights are inadequate to meet the demand,   are also high. It costs Rs 20,000 to Rs 30,000 for a return ticket on these sectors. And there are no direct flights to Australia and China which have also emerged as summer destinations.
 
 Basheer Ahmed of   Agents Federation of India said, “A large number of leisure travellers travel to Singapore and Kuala Lumpur from Chennai in May. The rush will be huge for Bangkok too. As the number of direct flights are not adequate, we route the travel groups via Colombo. People who book online too have started to prefer Colombo as a transit hub because there are flights from Colombo to more destinations than Bengaluru.”
 
 An airline official said that the foreign airlines have exhausted their quota of flights as per the bilateral agreement. “They now want Indian carriers to fly. But, Chennai airport is crowded and there are no slots for more international flights. The terminals will get congested if more flights are added.”
 
 
