TIRUNELVELI: The public hearing organized by the   (TNPCB) regarding the ‘Draft Revised Coastal Zone Management Plan’ for   district met with strong protest from fishermen who did not allow the officials to make a presentation. They alleged that the draft violated the basic structure and was prepared illegally hiding facts about the coastline. Following the protest, the meeting was called off in minutes. 

 A senior revenue official who participated in the meeting said that the public hearing would be organized once against after informing all stakeholders in the villages concerned. Convener of the   said the documents (map) uploaded and purported to be the draft CZMP were not complete and had not been prepared in accordance with the CRZ Notification, 2011. “It falls foul of the order of the   (SZ) in 2014,” he said and added that their objections have already been uploaded online.
 
 Though villagers from Kuttapuly, Perumanal, Panjal, Idinthakarai, Somayarpuram, Uvari, Kuthenkuly, Kootapanai and Kooduthalai participated in the meeting, they alleged that the officials did not inform the fishermen. “Villagers of Kuttapuly were told about it and we shared it with the other villagers last night. Many stakeholders could not be here as they are fishing,” said  , 37, of Kuttapuly.
 
 Fishermen added that the manner in which the draft was prepared without consulting or properly informing fishermen has led to suspicion among the fisherfolk that the government was trying to implement some project against the interest of aquatic life, coastline and interest of fishermen. J Ajay, a fisherman, claimed that there was no transparency in preparing the report. “The Coastal Zone Management Plans (CZMP) were prepared in 1996. The revised classification in 2013 was incorrect and was objected, following which the draft in 2018 was to be prepared based on the CRZ Notification of the National Green Tribunal in 2011. But the map was published online on February 19, 2018, ignoring various key factors,” he said.
 
 The government asked people to give their objections to the draft in 45 days of publication. “This draft has been prepared without field study and by merging the satellite map and survey done many years ago. The map in 1996 marked eco sensitive areas in the district, but these are missing in the map prepared this time and officials are refusing to give us reasons for the change,” he added.
 
 
