PATIALA: A report prepared by the state   (VB) probing former senior superintendent of police (SSP) Surjit Singh Grewal has found that the retired police officer had amassed wealth worth more than Rs 10 crore during his various postings in  .

 The report, which was put before the court of additional sessions and district judge Mohamed Gulzar on Thursday to oppose the anticipatory bail plea moved by Grewal, stated that the bureau had received a complaint from one   of Virgina in US. The complainant had said that during the period from 2005 to 2014, Grewal remained posted on important posts such as SSP vigilance bureau, Jalandhar; SSP Mega; and SSP Fazilka. He allegedly amassed huge wealth by indulged in corruption at these places.
 
 The complainant had alleged that Grewal had parked this ill-gotten money in moveable and immovable assets including ‘benami’ land at different places across the state and investing the money in fixed deposits (FDs) worth around Rs 25-30 crore. It had also been alleged that Grewal had bought around 40 kg of   and jewellery and stashed it away in his bank lockers.
 
 After receiving the complaint, an inquiry was conducted by SSP of Vigilance Bureau of Patiala range who found that Grewal indulged in massive corruption to amass the black money. The VB report stated that he had opened accounts in Killa   village bank branches in the name of his son Jasjit Singh, daughter-in-law   and grandson Ranvir Singh and deposited close to Rs 80 lakh.
 
 The former SSP also deposited a sum of Rs 4.38 crore in the name of his wife Jaswinder Kaur and purchased 5 kg gold for Rs l.5 crore. He also bought a rifle worth Rs 15,000 in the name of his wife.
 
 According to the VB report, the accused purchased 12 pieces of land in the name of his son at different places worth nearly Rs 50 lakh. He also bought land pieces in the name his son’s father-in-law Ranjit Singh worth Rs 60 lakh and Rs 5 lakh. More land was bought in the name of his relative Harvinder Singh for Rs 85 lakh, where three bungalows were constructed, the probe agency said.
 
 He also purchased some land in the name another relative Bachittar Singh for Rs 9.68 lakh and in the name of Mahesh Inder, another relative, for Rs 31 lakh, the report says, adding land was also bought in the name of Jaswinder Singh, brother-in-law of his son Jasjit Singh, for a sum of Rs 25 lakh. Grewal also spent Rs 1 crore for 11 industrial motors in the name of his relative Harminder Singh.
 
 The VB stated that it could only find evidence of legitimate income worth Rs 85 lakh between April 1, 1999, and March 31, 2014. After collecting the details of his assets listed above, which add up to well over Rs 10 crore, the vigilance department called the accused to explain his position and produced relevant documents regarding known source of income of such expenses.
 
 However, the former SSP refused to get his statement recorded following which the VB registered a case against him on December 21, 2017, under the Prevention of Corruption Act. Based on this report, the court dismissed his bail application and stated that as the accused had failed to join the investigations and his custodial interrogation was required.
 
 
