NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s ( ) fire and emergency services department is set to scrap 10 vehicles, including three firefighting tenders, three emergency tenders, one 15m hydraulic platform, and three ambulances.

 The department has 20 fire tenders, three emergency tenders, one foam tender, one hydraulic platform, 11 jeeps, four ambulances, and 11 motorcycles, including four firefighting bikes (55 vehicles).
 
 Of the 20 fire tenders, six are 25 years old, and virtually over the hill. According to sources in NMC, the fire department has received a nod from the civic administration for disposal of three fire tenders, one hearse, three jeeps and four motorcycles. Along with permission to discard the vehicles in phases, the department has received permission to discard hydraulic platform bought in 1991.
 
 Along with scrapping old vehicles, the fire department will rope in new, mini firefighting tenders. The official said the department has already ordered four mini fighting tenders with a capacity to carry 2,000 litre water. These mini firefighting tenders will help the department combat fires in city’s congested areas like Mahal, Itwari, Satranjipura etc
 
 Fabrication of these mini fire tenders is being done by an Ahmedabad-based firm, and they will join the department in July this year, said the official.
 
 Besides this, the department is also procuring water bowser having capacity to carry 16,000 litre water. “This vehicle will help the department refill the mini tenders engaged in firefighting,” the official said.
 
 The city, with a population of 30 lakh, and   (NIT), which is planning authority for Nagpur Metro Region Development Authority, for areas up to 10km from the city municipal limits, are serviced by the present firefighting arrangement with NMC, which is not sufficient, said fire experts.
 
 Even a survey carried out by ministry of home affairs in 2009 had indicated Nagpur should have over 20 fire stations. Besides, each station should have at least two fire tenders. On the contrary, Nagpur has only eight stations with around 20 fire tenders. Of these, five vehicles have completed over 25 years of service, and need to be discarded. Subsequently, the fire department is set to discard three fire tenders in the first phase.
 
 The source pointed out that in the recent past the city and its suburbs have witnessed tremendous growth in terms of infrastructure development. But, at the same time, the basic infrastructure of the fire and emergency services has been totally ignored.
 
 
