HYDERABAD: Lynch mobs spurred by social media rumours struck again, this time in the heart of Hyderabad when an elderly beggar dressed as a transgender was bludgeoned to death on suspicion of being a child-lifter. This takes the death toll from mob lynchings to four in 13 days despite the police brass in two Telugu states putting forces on high alert. 

 The mob frenzy happened minutes before midnight on Saturday in Chandrayangutta area of  , which was abuzz and crowded in the holy month of Ramzan. 
 
  
  
 The victim, Chandraiah, 52, was a native of   district and he along with three others had come to the city seeking alms. Another member of his group,  , is battling for life in hospital. 
 
 Police commissioner Anjani Kumar held a meeting on Sunday afternoon with senior officers and hammered out a security blueprint to stop attacks, particularly during Ramzan. While rural heartland of both states has been the epicentre of mob fury triggered by panic social media messages, this is the first time a man was lynched in Hyderabad. The area remained tense through the night. Police resorted to mild lathicharge to disperse mobs. 
 
 A case of murder was registered and 15 persons were arrested. The first spark was lit at a roadside cafe, where two cross-dressers from Mahbubnagar were haggling for alms when other customers in the hotel accused them of being child kidnappers and flashed WhatsApp videos of their lookalikes from Zaheerabad, who were arrested for abducting kids. 
 
 
 
 Casual talk and a stray WhatsApp video shared between three customers at Sohail Cafe over transgenders’ role in alleged child-lifting cases fanned mob frenzy on Saturday Around 11.30pm on Saturday,  , a cross-dresser, went to the cafe demanding money. The person manning the counter offered `10, but he demanded `100, Hyderabad police said. 
 
 Another cross-dresser, Narasimha, was standing at a distance. Three customers—Hussain, Mukhram, Rafeeq — noticed Ravi. Hussain told his friends that he suspects the two ‘transgenders’ could be child-lifters. Hussain walked up to Ravi, confronted him and started to misbehave with him, but the latter dismissed it. To prove his point, Hussain flashed his phone and played a video, showing police taking some transgenders into an auto-rickshaw and claimed Ravi and Narasimha were the ones featuring in the video and they were arrested for kidnapping recently in Zaheerabad. Within minutes, a mob started thrashing Ravi. He informed them that his father Chandraiah was nearby and they could talk to him. 
 
 The mob reached Azeem Hotel, where Chandraiah and his associate Swamy were present. The mob picked up an argument with the duo. Though Chandraiah and Swamy claimed they were beggars, the angry mob launched an attack on them too. Deputy commissioner of police ( ) V Satyanarayana said, rumours spread thick and fast and crowds were mobilized with minutes. 
 
 The beggars dressed as transgenders were moving from place to place seeking zakat. The locals shoved policemen aside and even damaged two police vehicles. The mobsters picked a concrete slab from an under-construction wall and smashed the head of Chandraiah, while Swamy lay profusely bleeding on the road. Chandraiah succumbed in hospital, while Swamy is critical. The third member of the group managed to wriggle out.
