In the latest episode of  ,   moves away from  's body after he sees her hands held by Yash.   asks people around to help her get  's hands off the woman. She then recalls the ring episode and how it didn't fit her. She suddenly realizes her ring is missing and starts looking around for it. Police speculates it to be a case of infidelity. They take Zoya and Aditya along with them in the ambulance. 

 While they are on their way, Aditya gets off the vehicle as he is angry but Zoya doesn't. When they reach the hospital, she is unable to take Pooja's hands off Yash. The doctor tells her it is not possible to separate them since dead bodies become stiff after some time. She then gets a call from Yash's sister, who inquires about her brother. Zoya informs her that Yash has met with an accident but drops her phone midway. The police gives Zoya's sister all the information. 
 
 Afterward, Zoya's mom is shown to be tensed as she is unable to reach her daughter and son-in-law. She tells her husband how she had thought of inviting Zoya and Yash for their anniversary dinner. Mr. Siddiqui tells her that they have never celebrated the occasion, so how does it matter. Just then, Zoya's sister enters and informs that Yash is no more. This leaves them shocked.
 
 
  
 At the hospital, Aditya and Zoya are informed that the bodies would have to go through autopsy. They are given some of the things that were found with Yash and Pooja. Their families arrive and Aditya walks past his parents and shows Pooja's mom her belongings. He then tells his parents that Pooja was cheating on him and he is upset about it. Mr. Hooda intervenes and asks him to talk about the matter at home. Aditya confronts him and exposes how his father has been unfaithful to his mother. He questions his mom's silence and congratulates his father as his daughter-in-law followed in his footsteps. 
 
 Mr. Hooda asks the hospital people and his wife to not let this matter get any attention in the media. Elsewhere, Pooja's mom recalls her memories with her daughter as she stands beside her body. Zoya's parents support her. The families are seen in mourning. The doctor comes with the autopsy report, which has been manipulated due to Mr. Hooda’s influence. When Pooja's brother-in-law questions the report, the doctor is made to leave by his father. 
 
 Zoya's father asks her to come home with them. He tel ls her how can she be at the hospital when she has been cheated by Yash. Zoya refuses to believe that Yash could be disloyal to her and holds the circumstances responsible for making them think in such a way. Aditya, who is hearing their conversation, comes to Zoya after her father leaves. He blames her for being foolish enough to believe that her husband was faithful to her. This makes Zoya slap him.
 
 
