PATIALA: He is a die-hard Virender Sehwag fan. Has a deep passion for cricket and wanted to play in the Indian Premier League (IPL) and earn some fast bucks. He also loves to get his body inked – presently he is sporting a flashy tattoo on both his biceps which reads “The Beast Never Stops”.

 
 But the 19-year-old boy from Saket (Delhi),  , chose to become a high jumper and try his luck in   instead. Shankar would not regret his decision as Wednesday the watershed moment of his nascent high-jump career. The 6 foot 4 inches athlete rewrote the history books with an effort of 2.28m to qualify for the Gold Coast   on the third day of competitions at the   senior national athletics championships. En route his gold medal effort, Shankar also broke his own national record of 2.26m, set in Coimbatore in November 2016 and the meet record of 2.21m by Nikhil C in 2014.
 
 Shankar looked to go even higher, setting the bar at 2.31m, but failed in all his three attempts despite coming very close to clearing it in the first attempt. By that time, he had breached the   qualification mark of 2.25m comfortably. Had Shankar cleared the 2.31m mark, it would have been a truly world class performance by him. The Rio Olympics bronze medal in the men’s high-jump was decided at 2.33m.
 
 Another high jumper, Haryana’s Siddharth Yadav, also cleared the qualification mark with an effort of 2.25m and there are good chances that both the athletes could be named in India’s CWG athletics contingent. In the women’s 10,000m event, Tamil Nadu’s L Suriya scorched the track with a timing of 32:23.96s to qualify for the CWG by breaching the qualification mark of 32:30.00s.
 
 “This year is very important for me. My target would obviously be to win medals at both the CWG and Asian Games. It’s a long season ahead with the college level competitions in the USA starting. I will compete in the US Collegiate events and look to earn the invitation for the Diamond League,” said Shankar, who is enrolled in the four-year undergraduate programme at the Kansas State University and is studying his first semester. He is training under coach Cliff Rovelto at the university.
 
 Before coming to India for the Federation Cup, Shankar had participated in the ‘Big 12 Indoor Athletics Championships’ in Ames, Iowa and had cleared the 2.28m mark. Similarly, one month back, he had breached the 2.19m mark at another meet in the US. “Today was a big learning experience for me. I have started making notes of my performances to assess what are my strengths and weaknesses. In the US, even the level of competition at the college is very tough. Certainly, the US exposure has helped me immensely,” he added.
 
