NAGPUR:   transactions across the state have been affected for about three months following a technical snag in Pune-based server. The problem aggravated last week, when hardly any transaction took place in a majority of 450 sub-registrar offices across the state, according to citizens who thronged to various registrar offices in the city.

 Thousands of people are facing harassment on account of this. It is taking a long time to upload their property related documents. Nagpur has 10 sub-registrar offices where about 40-50 documents are uploaded each day. It included sale deeds, agreement to sale, mortgage, gift deeds, power of attorney, lease deeds and other registrations.
 
 Joint district registrar in Nagpur, RJ  , under whose jurisdiction all sub-registrar offices function, told TOI the problem would be rectified soon. “It is persisting since last four to five days due to huge load of 450 offices on a single server set up in Pune head office. It was closed for for a few days for maintenance. We are trying our best to rectify the problem of saving huge data. It would take another four-five days to restore normalcy,” he said.
 
 However, citizens said they were hearing this “excuse” for the last couple of months but things failed to improve. “In fact, they deteriorated since last week, wasting our time and money. We are coming here everyday and it takes more than an hour to upload single document. Last week, only four documents could be uploaded in entire day. It is really frustrating when you come here for some work and even after waiting for a couple of days, it isn’t completed,” an upset lawyer   told TOI.
 
 According to aggrieved citizens, the delay in uploading documents has a cascading effects, as further works like loan disbursal from banks can’t be completed, and ultimately the entire project gets delayed.
 
 A broker engaged in property related work added the officials were doing nothing despite repeated complaints. “On the one hand, the government promotes digital transactions, but they failed to install servers with adequate capacity to handle the ever increasing load. There is complete lack of vision. Many of my clients arrive from long distances for preparation of documents. They had to go back disappointed,” he said adding it was also causing a loss of business to them.
 
 Raut clarified they had already sent a proposal to set up additional server in property registration offices, which was pending since long with the government. “Offices in this part of the state are more affected due to distance from Pune. Another factor is use of copper connector which is slowing down the speed,” he said.
 
 
