CHANDIGARH: In what may come as huge embarrassment for the   government, one of the accused allegedly involved in the cash for-jobs scam of the   ( ) has claimed before a   court that the racket “could not be possible without involvement of the members and senior officers of the HSSC” and also politicians.

 
 The accused claimed that names of some HSSC members and officers have been specifically referred to in the recordings of the phone calls intercepted by the agency.
 
 Considering the sensitivity of the matter and serious allegations levelled by the accused, Panchkula additional sessions judge   has directed the police “to produce a transcript of complete conversation of mobile phones of all the accused from the date on which their mobile phone numbers were put on interception.” The police have been asked to provide the details on Friday, when the case would be heard again.
 
 Police have not seized HSSC recruitment record: Counsel
 
 Questioning the police role, the accused also claimed that neither the call detail records (CDRs) of any of the members, chairman or secretary had been collected by its investigation team.
 
 It was necessary for fair investigation, the counsel for the accused claimed, adding that if these accused were not in touch with the said persons, they could not have committed the offence mentioned in the FIR.
 
 The issue was discussed in the local Panchkula court during the hearing of a bail plea filed by  , one of the accused arrested by the Panchkula police.
 
 “Fair investigation is right of every citizen and even if it is taken that there was any examination scam, that could not be possible without involvement of the members/officers of the commission being decisionmakers and some of them have been specifically referred (to) in the recordings of the co-accused. However, no action has been taken by the police against any higher officers, politicians, and members/ chairman of the HSSC,” the accused’s counsel argued.
 
 For a just decision in the case, the petitioner’s counsel submitted that it is necessary to at least go through the conversations between different persons to know who the other persons are.
 
 The accused also submitted that the record of the recruitments, which are under cloud, has not been taken into possession by the police till date.
 
 The accused was head of the confidential branch of the HSSC and as per disclosure statements, another accused,   used to collect money on his behalf.
 
