NASHIK: Finding proper footpaths along roads has become a rarity in   these days. 

 Among the Smart Cities in the country, Nashik seems to have scant regard for pedestrians. Most road-related works are focused on ensuring proper vehicle movement, little thought has been given for allocation of space for pedestrians, citizens rued. 
 
 In January, 13 pedestrians were hit on city roads. Four of these pedestrians died, while the remaining nine sustained injuries. While some pedestrians may have be knocked down while crossing the road, others could have been hit while walking on the roads in the absence of footpaths. 
 
 Moreover, the existing footpaths are largely encroached upon, leaving little space for pedestrians. Even motorists, who do not find any parking space, leave their vehicles on the pavements. 
 
 Senior citizens are worst affected due to the absence of proper footpaths.  , 65, resident of  , said the departments concerned should ensure that the footpaths are free of encroachments. 
 
 "Nowadays, everywhere, there are vehicles parked. Then, there are pan stalls, tea stalls, extensions of small hotels and various other kiosks blocking these pavements. Senior citizens like us have no option other than to walk on the road even in heavy traffic," Jadhav said.
 
 Senior police officials said they have brought the issue of encroachments on pavements to the notice of the civic administration. They were also expecting action to clear the pavements for pedestrians. 
 
 In August last year, the city police and the civic administration took joint action against shopkeepers having their establishments in the   area for encroaching upon the roads or footpaths in front of their shops. This was hampering traffic movement on the busy road.
 
 Police officers said they were constantly in touch with the civic authorities regarding various road-related problems. The problems of the footpaths has also been brought to their notice and they were expecting some action against the shopkeepers.
 
 Abhay Kulkarni, industrialist and president of Nashik First organisation, which also runs the Children's Traffic Education Park, said the impart training regarding making way for pedestrians during the training programme for drivers. "In other countries, importance is given to pedestrians, but the situation is opposite here. Given the state of footpaths and pavements in Nashik, we will definitely write to Nashik municipal commissioner to ensure that the footpaths are made free for pedestrians," he said. 
 
 
