Ludhiana: The   on Saturday lodged a complaint with the district election officials regarding a flag of   being “put up” at Raghunath temple in Durgapuri area of Haibowal. Congress claimed that the saffron party was trying to play the religion card in the MC elections. The BJP however denied the allegations and claimed none of its members had erected the flag. 

 The saffron leaders also claimed that the party would fight the election on development agenda and does not want to bring religion into the polls.
 
 Sabi Toor, husband of   (a Congress candidate from ward number 93), who is spearheading her campaign alleged that the area residents had sent them pictures of a BJP’s flag put up at Raghunath temple in Mandir Waali Gali in Durgapuri of Haibowal following which they took up the matter with MC zone D superintendent  , who receives complaints about poll violation. “ They need to keep away politics from religion. Now it is for the officials to take suitable action on the complaint,” he said. 
 
 Rajeev Bhardwaj when contacted maintained confirmed having received the comlpaint and added that the flag was soon brought down.
 
 When asked about the likely action on the complaint, he said a number of complaints were being received on different issues and the action is taken accordingly. 
 
 The BJP representatives meanwhile denied having erected the party flag at the temple.
 
 Ravinandan Sharma, husband of Sonia Ravinandan Sharma a BJP candiadte from the ward, who is campaigning for his wife, said,” We also came to know about it from someone and our members had no role in putting up the flag. We are not for bringing religion into politics and would fight the election on development issue,”.
 
 Blaming rivals for trying to create a controversy he said the BJP flag could be printed by anyone, and not necessarily by someone having affiliations with the party. 
 
 Meanwhile, a section of Hindu groups also came forward seeking action against those who had erected the flag on the temple.
 
 “The tomb should have only temple’s flag and not of any political party. We suggest the officials to scan the CCTV footage of the temple to find out who was behind the act. If BJP workers have done it, action should be taken against them,” said Prince Sharma, district chairman of   Punjab. 
 
 “ Temple is for devotees and not for politics. But if it is found that the BJP members have done it, then they will have to face the music,” said Arvind Kumar Walia, district president of Shiv Sena Samajwadi.
 
 
