If you are a fashionista who loves to keep yourself abreast with the latest clothing trends and go shopping, Zingbi multi-designer store in Gopalapuram is a place you can explore. It is the brain child of two professionals who have completely different work experiences and educational backgrounds. Mohan, the founder of the store, is a techie. Whereas, its co-founder, Dr R Karthikeyan, is a clinical psychologist, management consultant and writer.   Launched on January 19 by Kollywood actress and singer Andrea Jeremiah, the brand stands for women like her who have a taste for fine luxury. Apart from showcasing works of some of the most-accomplished designers in the country, it also has works by talented aspiring designers. Designs done by leading fashion designers from Kollywood and Bollywood are available at the store. Unlike others in the market, the store also showcases new collection every month.    “Generally, when it comes to premium designer fashion in Chennai, it is limited to Khader Nawaz Khan Road and a few other places which are either crowded or places with low accessibility and limited parking. Chennai has to catch up in terms of designer fashion. Our store is the answer to that and offers luxury shopping. The store is spread over 7,000 sqft across three floors and has ample car parking. It gives each customer a superb touch-and-feel experience,” says Karthikeyan.    It offers designer wear for all occasions for women and girls. They can choose from ethnic, contemporary, Indo-western, western and also bridal wear. Belts, jewellery, clutches, handbags, hair accessories and footwear are also available. The price range begins from `7,500.    Through their mobile app and social media channels, the brand provides updated information about designers and fashion wear for women. Android users can download the app from the Play store.  Speaking about the inspiration for opening the store, Mohan says “Chennai customers have limited sartorial choices and many wonderful fashion trends get missed out even though we have some of the most fashionable and celebrative culture in India, be it Kollywood, festivals or fine arts. Many customers do not know that they, too, have access to fashion of their choice and sport something unique which is designed only for them. We want to serve this segment, giving guidance and facilities to fulfill the dream of customised designer wear.”    “Our research shows aspirational shift of middle-class Indians towards designer wear as opposed to off-the-shelf wear. We want to set up a dialogue with this segment, making it is easy for them to embrace latest designer fashion that too in a customised way. We have made a video conference facility, using which customers can interact with our designers in India to get their customised outfit. Of course, they can also interact with our designers through text chat within the comforts of their homes, using the mobile app. We will be expanding, setting up branches in the UAE and the UK soon,” adds Karthikeyan.    Address: Zingbi, 7, 7th Street,  Gopalapuram, Chennai 600086   For more details, call: 6380979210, or visit www.zingbi.com