BADAMI: Chief minister Siddaramaiah’s first electoral foray out of old   region, where he built his political career over 35 years, had fallen flat when he lost the 1991 Lok Sabha elections from Koppal in Hyderabad-Karnatak. After 17 years, he is again headed north, seeking election from an assembly constituency in Mumbai Karnataka.

 
 An epic political battle is unfolding in the historic city of  , between   and BJP’s “rising star” B Sreeramulu. Unlike the battle of Vatapi (Badami) in 642 AD, when powerful Pallava king Narasimhavarman- I invaded the Chalukyan kingdom and battled Pulakeshi II, the electoral battle this time is between two outsiders.
 
 While the CM’s detractors are calling him a “coward” who has run north fearing an end to his political career in the south,   is trying to portray the contest as proof of Siddaramaiah’s pan-Karnataka popularity.
 
 While Badami town itself is small, the 111 villages in the constituency hold the key to victory from the segment. Siddaramaiah’s lieutenant. Satish Jarkiholi, puts it aptly when he says: “While in the cities it is difficult to read the voters’ mind, it is not the case in villages where we can read their sense.”
 
 
  
 
 But a visit across the segment suggests that rural voters are not only as divided as their urban counterparts but also not completely averse to causing major embarrassment to both the CM and the   powerhouse who are considered outsiders in the constituency.
 
 “He may have given us four meals a day with his Anna Bhagya but he is also the same man who tried to tell us Lingayats and Veerashaivas are different,” says Bheemanna Kori from Kutanakeri village.
 
 Sreeramulu too is seen as someone fielded only to tackle Siddaramaiah. “While his work and influence in neighbouring district of Gadag is quite popular, he is here only because he has the financial muscle to take on Siddaramaiah,” says Manju, a local taxi driver and BJP sympathiser.
 
 On whether the Reddy brothers’ taint will rub off on Sreeramulu, Manju counters: “No one spends their hardearned money in elections. Everyone knows that it is haram (illicit) money. Sreeramulu’s past has no impact.”
 
 In the battle between the two biggies in Badami is a dark horse too: Hanumantha Mavinamarad, a local “worker” who is standing on a JD(S) ticket.
 
 According to Kutanakeri villager Basegouda Badthanppanavar, Mavindmarad, in fact, has the sympathy of the entire constituency as people have found him efficient in addressing their concerns. “In fact, had it not been for chief minister Siddaramaiah’s candidature and the counter candidature of Sreeramulu, Mavinmarad was destined to be the winner. However, in the battle between the two lions, Mavinmarad may become the innocent scapegoat,” he says.
 
 The caste arthimetic in the constituency favours all the three candidates, making the contest fraught with imponderables.
 
 With 42,000 voters from the Kuruba community, Siddaramaiah is a clear favourite. That apart, he can bank on 15,000 minority votes and close to 20,000 scheduled caste votes.
 
 For Sreeramulu, BJP is looking at close to 20,000 voters from his Valmiki community, besides 68,000 Lingayats votes. But a big chunk of Lingayat voters are also likely to back Mavinmarad as he is the sole candidate from the community who can corner the votes.
 
 Further, the influential Shiva Yogi Mandir in Badami has apparently decided to back JD(S). The Mandir is the training ground for Lingayat pontiffs of Karnataka, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh.
 
 Mavinmarad, however, says caste calculations always go haywire. “Just because I hail from the Lingayat community, it does not mean I can sit at home and win this election. Similarly, Siddaramaiah and Sreeramulu, too, cannot take the caste calculations as the premise for their victory,” he said.
 
 In such a scenario, it is to be seen whether Siddaramaiah will become Narasimhavarman I who won the battle of Badami and ruled the region for a long time. The other legend, Pulakeshin II, died on the battlefield and his death resulted in the annihilation of the once powerful Chalukyan empire.
 
