Police have expressed concern over the number of crimes and protests involving minors and students in Tirunelveli region and warned that the cases registered against them would affect them in the long run. Students and youth were behind the huge success of the Jallikattu protests in January 2017. Since then . political parties and organisations have been motivating youth to protest against various issues.

 Interestingly, in most cases police deny permission to some protests, for reasons at large. The growing number of agitations such as the anti-Sterlite protests that began at Kumarattiyapuram in Tuticorin and spread to many villages and to Tuticorin city over the last four months and the anti-International Container Transhipment Terminal (ICTT) protests in Kanyakumari have become a cause of concern for the government and police.
 
 As they fight with vigour for social causes, police have asked them not to take part in protests for which permission has been denied. "Students have the right to protest, but they cannot take the law into their own hands," the deputy inspector general of police (DIG) for Tirunelveli Range Kapil Kumar Saratkar said.
 
 The DIG said that they were not trying to threaten the students and asking them to refrain from protests. "We are only explaining the legal consequences as cases pending against them will force us to mention it when their applications come for police verification. Be it government or private jobs or for passport verification," he said.
 
 Saratkar recalled that recently a couple of youths who had cleared the tests and interview for joining the police department could not make it to their dream job as they had once participated in protests or were having cases pending against them.
 
 The police have made an appeal to parents of students and youth to ensure that their wards do not take part in protests for which the police have denied permission. This will help them avoid hanging their heads in shame at police stations on a later day, requesting the police to clear the names of their wards.
 
 This word of caution comes at a time when the High Court has banned the entry of political parties into educational institutions. The warning from the police has attracted opposition from student bodies and political parties, who feel that the police are using cases as a tool to threaten students to keep them away from protesting.
 
 Students Federation of India (SFI) central executive committee member and state vice-president A T Kannan said that over decades students have been fighting for their rights and rights of the society and nation at large. "Students have fought against wrong education policies, employment and economic policies of the government," he said.
 
 Kannan added that invariably for most protests the police had denied permission as it was against the state or the union government. "But these protests have resulted in constructive changes at the policy-level and benefited students and the society. There are many vibrant student protesters who are into government jobs and in high ranks," he claimed.
 
 "But now there is a trend in   where the police register cases against students and youth to instil a psychological fear so that they would refrain from staging protests," he said and added that in the past many such cases have got verdicts favouring students. Students will not stage protests without permission if the police granted permission for democratically showing their protest, he said.
 
 
