TRICHY: The addition of seven more courses at the Central University of   (CUTN) has led to an unprecedented 50 per cent increase in the number of applications received this year, many from outside the country. Administrators said they had received 60,000 applications this year against last year’s 40,000.

 University officials said while the   have helped at tract more students from outside the country, there has been an increase of 3,000-4,000 applications from students within the state too.   tests were conducted on Saturday and Sunday to fill 1,135 seats in the university across three undergraduate, six integrated five-year, one postgraduate diploma and 17 postgraduate courses.
 
 A consortium of 10 central universities conducts the Central Universities Common Entrance Test (CUCET) to select students for its postgraduate, five-year integrated and research programmes. A decade-old university in the central region of Tamil Nadu, the management credits the increasing visibility of the university for the overwhelming response this year. “The 5-year integrated MSc in Physics and Chemistry programmes were the most sought-after this year receiving 7,000 applications,” said controller of examination (CoE) A Ragupathy.
 
 “We had introduced seven new departments last year alone apart from a diploma in performing arts. Further, our alumni have been making it to many reputed universities overseas which has also been adding up to the popularity,” said Ragupathy. “There are a total 1,659 students in the university at present and we have 100 permanent faculty members, a bulk of who were recruited in the last two years,” says Francis Philip Barclay, department of Media and Mass Communication.
 
 “Innovative programmes like epidemiology and public heath, microbiology and material science which have professional value are key to our popularity, said Francis. “Though we are a new university we have been doing extremely well in research because of which our H index is 21 which is high for a decade-old university,” he added. 
 
 Though they had introduced many innovative programmes, CUTN vice-chancellor A P Dash said that infrastructural development would be their focus in the upcoming academic year with a couple of projects including that of a new administrative building underway.
 
 
