THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government has asked the   (AICTE) -- the regulatory body for technical education -- to stop clearing not only new engineering colleges in the state but also new courses in existing colleges.

 The request has been made in the perspective plan on engineering education submitted to the council last week. “We have explained in detail why there should be no more colleges and courses, at least for the time being. Over 25,000 seats, especially those in the self-financing sector, were vacant last year. It will not be wise to start more colleges or courses,” higher education secretary   said.
 
 Three self-financing engineering colleges have closed their operations in the state this year while a management has approached the AICTE to convert a college into a polytechnic. The trend of managements ending their operations started last year while they used to improve facilities and restart operations earlier when admissions were denied.
 
 Sources said the plan also called for mechanisms to improve the teaching-learning experience in colleges. The demand for   on new colleges and courses will primarily affect colleges in the self-financing sector but the plan has not mentioned anything specifically against the sector. Barring a few exceptions, almost all seats in the government, aided and government-controlled engineering colleges in the self-financing sector were filled even amidst this crisis.
 
 The progressive decline in the number of admissions in engineering colleges, especially in the private institutions, and the trend of declining number of students appearing for engineering entrance examination are the major factors that prompted the state government move. The development is also seen as an attempt to gain more control over self-financing colleges, which have of late won several cases against the state government.
 
 The Kerala Self-Financing Engineering College Managements’ Association has, however, welcomed the move. “Only 30,000 of the 56,000 engineering seats in the state were filled last year. A moratorium on new colleges and courses for a few years makes sense,” association secretary   said.
 
 The association has petitioned the government and admission supervisory and fee regulation committee for more freedom in selection of candidates to management seats this year.
 
 
