SURAT: All eyes of the world’s largest diamond cutting and polishing centre in Surat are set on the first banking summit post the sensational banking scam worth Rs 13,600 crore by billionaire   and his uncle Mehul Choksi scheduled to be held in Mumbai on May 11. 

 As diamond companies in Surat and Mumbai have been struggling to get finance from Indian banks after the banking fraud, the Gems and   (GJEPC) will be collaborating with leading banks and release a white paper at the banking summit. 
 
 The paper would aim to address assessment of credit limit, collateral security and other important issues aimed at mitigating the concerns of key stakeholders of the industry hit by the fraud.
 
 The white paper also proposes setting up of credit risk investigation team to track and provide intelligent information from trade members, which can be used by the bankers to take informed credit decision. It also proposes to provide critical data analysis and meeting between GJEPC, bankers and trade members once in a quarter. 
 
 The GJEPC also intends to take up advance remittance and its likely misuse with the  , mandatory registration of all members under My KYC BANK, which will help banks establish genuineness of the members. Bankers will be given access to GJEPC portal to access and get information on trade members. 
 
 A formation of regulated arbitration body consisting of GJEPC, Bharat Diamond Bourse and bankers for dispute resolution has also been proposed. On the related part transactions, the GJEPC proposes to send goods directly and documents will come later through the banks for acceptance.
 
 GJEPC chairman Pramod Agarwal said, “The white paper will be historic for any industry and play a critical role in creating an enabling environment for this labour intensive sector going forward. The banking summit will be held in the presence of Union commerce minister  .” 
 
 Agarwal added, “The white paper will request bankers not to reduce their current credit limits as this would hit exports and hamper employment. Downgrading of the trade will further lead to spiking up of costs such as interest, processing fee, which is financially not viable as gems and jewellery is a labour and working capital intensive industry.”
 
 Agarwal said besides stock evaluation, GJEPC proposes for at least one valuation in a financial year by external independent valuers and adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) or accounting standards and system audit. 
 
 
