JAIPUR: It’s a double whammy for commuters who travel between   and   via Hawa Sadak. After erecting barricades for the construction of an   road,   ( ) has started the Bais Godam bridge rehabilitation work. The arterial road has become commuters’ nightmare during peak hours as long traffic snarls are witnessed between   and Bais Godam.

 Commuters are having a harrowing time as traffic crawls till Sodala during peak hours . Even though traffic diversions are made, the already congested roads of C-Scheme swell with traffic. Rajveer Singh, who travels from Lal Kothi to   daily says, “Even on Sunday it took me more than one hour to reach my destination in the evening. After barricades were erected I changed my route to reach  , however, the width of the bridge is reduced to half due to ongoing repair work.”
 
 The situation is not expected to improve soon as elevated road proposed between Ambedkar Circle and Sodala will miss the deadline. According to the official sources, the project would miss its official deadline of January 2019 and would be completed by June 2019 instead. “Till April this year, the financial progress of the project was estimated around Rs 42 crore as against total cost Rs 213 crore.”
 
 A civic body official claimed that the work has been delayed after the supply of sand was interrupted. Majority of foundation work has been completed and half of the structure construction has been done, which is visible on ground.
 
 As monsoon is approaching closer and completion of elevated road has been delayed, the construction will not only create inconvenience, but also pose a risk to thousands of commuters who travel every day on this route. “For so many years, water-logging is a major problem near Sahkar Marg. If work is not completed on time, the situation will be worsened,” said a commuter. 
 
 A senior JDA official said, “The maintenance and repair work was expected to be completed by May 31. The work is already completed and bottleneck will be cleared soon. It’s an initial hurdle, once completed, the road is expected to save nearly 40 minutes of travel time and decongest Hawa Sadak as it would offer a non-stop drive at a speed of up to 50km/h.”
 
 
