KOCHI: The continuing depletion of groundwater has imperilled the water security of several districts in the state. Palakkad, experienced an alarming fall in groundwater levels between April, 2016, and April, 2017, according to data collected from 67 groundwater monitoring stations in the district by the groundwater department.

 Three blocks have registered the highest-ever depletion in groundwater levels. A fall of seven meters was experienced at Ozhalapathy grama panchayat in Chittur block, while Kanjikode industrial belt and Nalleppully of Malampuzha block suffered a fall of 2.53m and two meters, respectively, resulting in acute drinking water scarcity in these areas.
 
 According to the state groundwater department, the fall in water level in Pattambi block is between one to two meters in the past one year. At   in Pattambi block, the groundwater level depleted by .09 meters, said hydrogeologist V Sudarshanan.
 
 In the past one year, 43 mini drinking water supply schemes based on borewells failed at   grama panchayat in Chittur. In   grama panchayat, also in Chittur, nine borewells failed at Kottilpara, said KWA executive engineer R Jayachandran.
 
 The alarming fall in groundwater levels in the blocks of Chittur, Malampuzha and Pattambi shows that the district is under the grip of water crisis, said Jayachandran.
 
 The frequent failure of northeast monsoon and the failure to get the due share of water from the inter-state Parambikulam-Aliyar Project (PAP) resulted in the present water crisis in the district, he said. In   district, the average depth of groundwater is 5 to 15 MBGL (metres below ground level). Officials with groundwater department said that drilling of borewells, reckless filling of wetland and paddy fields and demolition of hilly areas have resulted in groundwater depletion.
 
 Malappuram experienced an average dip of one meter compared to the levels in the corresponding period last year. The bore wells in the district recorded depletion of water level up to five meters.
 
 
 
 
