MANGALURU: Mangaluru city will not face any   crisis till the end of May, said mayor K Bhaskar Moily.

 “Water stored in the new vented dam at Thumbe will be sufficient for 47 days. Even if the water level dips further, the city will not face any water scarcity till the end of May, since AMR Dam, which is on the upstream of Nethravati river, has 9.17 MCM of water in it. Water from   can be released to   if required,” Moily said. 
 
 The new dam of 7 metres height in Thumbe in Bantwal taluk, with a maximum storage capacity of 14.73 MCM, has water at a level of 5.6 metres as on Friday. As water is at a level of 5.6 feet, the dam has 8MCM water in it, and as per calculations of Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) engineers’, it will be sufficient for 47 days without inflow. 
 
 The water level at the new dam, which was commissioned in December 2016, was maintained at five meters till December, 2017. However, the water level at the dam was increased to 6 metres in January.
 
 Mayor K Bhaskar Moily visited the dam along with MCC council chief whip M Shashidhar Hegde and MLC Ivan D’Souza, to ascertain the storage level. Moily said the city will not face any water shortage. “As on Friday, the water level in Thumbe dam is 5.6 feet. It is sufficient for 47 days for Mangaluru. We will maintain the water level in Thumbe by releasing water from AMR Dam based on the situation. Accordingly, citizens of Mangaluru will be getting uninterrupted water supply till the end of May,” Moily said. 
 
 On compensation to be paid to villagers, whose land was submerged after the increase in storage of water, Moily said the government has already released funds for the same. “A total 20.53 acres belonging to 28 villagers was submerged when the water level was maintained at 5 metres in Thumbe Dam. The government has released Rs 7 crore and compensation to the tune of Rs 4 crore has already been paid to 12 landowners. Meanwhile, for 36 landowners who lost 30 acres when the storage was increased again to 6 metres, the government has released additional funds of Rs 10 crore, and the process of paying compensation will be completed within a month,” he added. 
 
 “Though the city may not suffer a water crisis, citizens should use water judiciously,” he appealed. 
 
 
