JAIPUR: Almost a year after the Real Estate Regulatory Act ( ) was enacted, buyers still do not have a clear roadmap and builders continue to sell them distant dreams in absence of full-fledged authority.

 The RERA was introduced with an aim to bring more transparency in the existing system and protect the interests of homebuyers.
 
  government had earlier appointed additional chief secretary ( ) of urban development and housing (UDH) department to head the RERA.
 
 The charge to the ACS, UDH, was additional and a dedicated head has not been appointed till date. To complete the quorum, the state government had to appoint two more members along with the authority chairperson. But, it has not be done as a result in past 11 months, out of 240 complaints received at RERA against the developers, only 27 are been disposed of.
 
 Sources in the UDH department said, “The process to establish full-fledged real estate regulatory authority in the state was started a few months ago. For the same, the department had forwarded a proposal to finance department to appoint staff of 49 members for the regulatory authority. The proposal has not received an approval yet.”
 
 As per the proposal, the authority will comprise members from legal, planning, finance, administration and informative technology fields.
 
 Source added, “Full-time chairman and members are essential for smooth functioning of the authority. Their presence is required for swift action and quick disposal of the grievances of home buyers,” sources said.
 
 After RERA Act came into force, chief minister   launched the RERA website on June 1. It became mandatory for all the builders and real estate agents to register on the website.
 
 According to the official, “Across the state, 704 housing projects and 588 real estate agents have registered online with RERA.”
 
 Even though, majority of the developers have registered their ongoing projects in the state with (RERA) in urban areas, the residents cannot heave a sigh of relief as state government as full-fledged authority is yet to take shape.
 
 However, official at RERA said , the consumers wishing to register their complaints with the regulatory authority can go ahead after seeing the registered project profile on the RERA online portal, in case they feel duped. Those who have booked their flats in a residential complex and their developer has not registered on portal can also inform the authority.
 
 
