CHANDIGARH: Going by the success of 16 science and knowledge parks that have made science interesting for the students of government schools, the   is planning 20 more such parks. The matter will be taken up in the upcoming   (PAB) meeting scheduled in June that will also decide upon the schools where the science and knowledge parks will come up. This agenda has been included in the budget proposal being prepared these days by the UT education department. Through these parks, the department further looks forward to popularize science, general knowledge/awareness and to give practical experience of theoretical concepts.

 
  
 
 
 A budget of Rs 3 lakh per school is being proposed for the development of the same by the department that will include concepts from classes VI onwards.
 
 The parks will include concepts of science including law of conservation of energy, invisible light, periodic table, mechanical waves, pinhole waves, kaleidoscope, periscope, rain gauge, anemometer to measure wind speed, models on multiple reflections, models based on friction,   disc, DNA double helix and parabolic dishes. 
 
 “The response to these parks has been good and, therefore, we have decided that we should ask the authorities concerned for 20 more such parks in one go. Let’s see how many they approve,” said an official on condition of anonymity.
 
 In the year 2016, for the first-the time department had come up with seven parks after approval of budget from the ministry of human resource and development (MHRD) and in a year later 10 more such parks were approved and the same were developed and started in January this year, except one.
 
 The PAB meeting is held by the MHRD every year to approve budget for   (SSA) and   (RMSA). This year only one PAB meeting will take place in the month of June.
 
 Director school education Rubinderjit Singh Brar said, “This year the MHRD has kept a special budget for innovation under which various activities can be proposed. The proposal for PAB is expected to include several other activities, but the same are yet to be finalized.” 
 
 
