Trichy: As the summer inches towards its peak, juice sales have also picked up in the city with some outlets recording almost double what they sold last summer. Fruit and juice sellers say that muskmelon juice has been topping the popularity chart in the city with pomegranate coming in second.

 With muskmelon juice jumping to Rs 30 from Rs 20 and pomegranate Rs 60 from Rs 40, vendors have been making a quick buck. Customers plump for melons as they are rich in water content while pomegranate contains high levels of antioxidants. This apart, the sale of sugarcane juice, palm fruit and lassi has also gone up. Apart from fresh juice centres and roadside juice vendors, outlets in hotels also have been remaining packed throughout the day with the mercury levels rising.
 
 Manager of K A S Ramdass juice centre at Central bus stand, A Murugesan, said that the usual sale of juice had already doubled and this would only go up in the next two months. The demand for fresh juices has been high despite a number of carbonated bottled drinks available in the market, said S Raghavan of Srirangam.
 
 “The best nourishment is eating the fruit as a whole. But since very few people do that, we should at least drink fresh juice during summer to avoid heat-related diseases. Though this is off-season for pomegranate, I like it because of its health benefits”, he added.
 
 The manager of Covai Pazhamuthir Nilayam located in front of Government Hospital, V Ranjith, claimed that they would not change the prices be it season or off-season. As a number of people visited the centre to buy juice for patients, they gave quality fruit juices for a reasonable price, he said. Sometime ago, farmers used to cultivate cucumber in the district. However, very few came forward to take up the cultivation. Cucumbers, muskmelons and watermelons were related crops of tropical origin and had similar health benefits, he said. 
 
 Doctors said that fresh juice was better than stale juice and definitely better than sugar-filled sodas and the so-called health drinks filled with harmful chemicals. “We should drink fresh juice, particularly those extracted from our native breeds, as it is a great way to hydrate because of the water content and electrolytes. Since the nutrients from the juice enter our cells in 20 minutes, it is the most nutritious and ultimate fastfood”, the district siddha medical officer Dr Kamaraj said. 
 
 
