PANAJI: Nirmala Institute of Education (NIE) decided to take a detour down memory lane and uphold Goa’s cultural past by opting for a festival themed on abolim flowers, at a time renowned DJs and popular Bollywood numbers more commonly set the tone during musical events at annual day functions and colleges fests.

 “The abolim is on the verge of obliteration from memory despite being intrinsic to Goan culture. The idea behind the festival is to revive the flower’s popularity and its various uses. Contrary to popular belief that the flower is used only in religious rituals, garlands made of it were also worn by women on their heads,” said NIE’s former principal and director, Rita Paes.
 
 The festival held on Saturday in tandem with the institute’s annual Goa Day celebrations saw students handing out abolim tiaras to attendees. Besides a knowledge series wherein heritage and horticulture experts spoke about the importance of abolim, displays of medicinal plants and herbs also caught visitors’ attention at the day-long festival.
 
 “There are three main types of abolim — ratan, sadim and pixim — in yellow and orange colours. But, wild varieties in blue and purple can also be seen in the hinterlands of Goa,” said one of the visitors.
 
 “Plants like vattelax and kodunim were used by our elders for stomach ailments and skin allergies while asan and saton were used for injuries. This traditional knowledge was lost to modern medicine, but now people are coming back to organic roots in a bid to live healthy. This festival is an avenue for people to rediscover Goa’s medicinal heritage,” said  , a student at NIE.
 
 At the festival, the weaving of coconut palm leaves which serve as shade were also demonstrated. Art also unfolded at the premises as renowned artist   painted on ghumots and   whose innovation of painting with syringes drew many curious eyes to the art stall.
 
 “Abolim must be given the status of a state flower. The festival will keep our heritage alive, but the horticulture department has to seriously take it upon themselves to promote the flower,” said heritage activist Prajal Sakhardande.
 
 
