UDAIPUR: Camaraderie that characterises the armed forces were on ample display on Sunday as veterans and the present generation of soldiers interacted with one another during the Veterans’ Rally at Udaipur. Every serving soldier seemed to symbolise the sentiment ‘We Are Because You Are’ with which he greeted the over 1,500 veterans, ‘Veer Naaris’ and widows who attended the Veterans’ Empowerment Rally organised at Udaipur Military Station by Battle Axe Division.

 The aim of the rally was to reach out to the veteran community of Udaipur and neighbouring districts of Sirohi, Dungarpur, Banswara, Pratapgarh, Rajsamand, Bhilwara and Chittorgarh. With this year being commemorated as the ‘Year of the Disabled Soldier’, special emphasis was laid on the disabled veterans and in resolving their issues. A number of awareness and assistance stalls were established by representatives of the Zila Sainik Board, Rajasthan Ex-servicemen Corporation (REXCO), Veterans’ Pension Cell, Records Offices as also by various corporate houses including hotels, industries, hospitals, banks and automobiles for information on employment, health and loans related issues.
 
 Enthusiastically attended by over 1,500 veterans, veer naaris, widows and their dependents, the event provided an apt platform for their interaction with senior officials from   that included Lt Gen RK Jagga, , GOC, Konark Corps, Maj General OP Gulia, GOC, Battle Axe Division, and Collector  , . On the occasion, a number of disabled veterans, gallantry awardees, veer naaris and widows were felicitated. Disabled soldiers were felicitated with five modified scooters donated by Hindustan Zinc Ltd. Reema Jagga, zonal president,   also felicitated the veer naaris and widows on the occasion. 
 
 Speaking on the occasion, Lt Gen RK Jagga, conveyed his gratitude to the veteran community for their matchless contribution to national cause and while exhorting them to continue serving the country in their respective capacities, he also reassured them of the organisation’s commitment towards their dignity and well-being.
 
 pic- The rally provided a platform for resolving the issues of veterans, and widows of soldiers of the armed forces.
 
 
