NEW DELHI: With a peak demand of over 7,000MW expected this summer, power utilities are   to ensure  . Last summer, the peak power demand was 6,526MW, highest ever-recorded in the national capital.   usually prepare for a 10% hike in power consumption every year.

 Reliance-Infra backed discoms   and  , who supply power to east, west, south and parts of central Delhi, have finalised power purchase agreements and banking deals with several states including Himachal Pradesh (425MW), Uttar Pradesh (72MW), Andhra Pradesh (50MW), Sikkim (50MW), Tamil Nadu (25MW) and Bhutan (40MW). “BSES discoms will get upto 665MW of power through banking arrangements. Additionally, around 150MW of renewal energy from Himachal Pradesh and around 20MW from Rajasthan will further boost the power arrangements. In case of unforeseen contingencies because of low generation and outages of power plants, the discoms will purchase short-term power from the exchange,” said a spokesperson. 
 
 Peak power demand in BRPL areas of south and west Delhi, which had reached 2,745MW during 2017 summers, is expected to cross 2,880MW this year. In BYPL areas of east and central Delhi, the peak power demand — which had reached 1,469MW last year — is expected to touch around 1,670MW. 
 
 Strengthening the distribution system is another priority area. “During the year, BSES discoms have invested substantial resources to strengthen the network. A large part of the distribution schemes have already been completed. This has made the network more robust for taking the additional power load this summer,” said officials.
 
 BSES officials said they were using a mix of in-house advanced statistical forecasting models, combined with rich domain expertise and state-of-the-art weather forecasting solutions, including those provided by IMD-POSCO, to meet the summer demand. “This accurate day ahead, intraday and medium term demand forecasting is vital for optimal and cost effective power planning, besides ensuring reliable supply to consumers at an optimal cost,” said a spokesperson.
 
 Tata Power Delhi Distribution, the power utility that supplies electricity in north and northwest Delhi, has estimated a peak electricity demand of about 2,000MW this season. Last year, the peak demand touched 1,852MW during summers. The discom has exported power upto 300MW to Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh during winter of 2017-18 under banking arrangements. The same power will be returned by these states to the discom this summer.
 
 “As the metrological department forecast an extremely hot summer this time, we are expecting the peak demand to reach 2,000MW in our areas,” said Praveer Sinha, CEO and MD, Tata Power Distribution.
 
 
