LUCKNOW: If you are a tourist in Varanasi seeking advice on the fare of a boat ride or aarti timings in Allahabad, there is help at hand. All you need to do is call on the 24-hour helpline. The state tourism department has come up with the facility for the assistance of travellers.

 
 Though a formal launch is awaited, a trial of the helpline 18601801364 is underway.
 
 “The helpline aims at assisting tourists at all times. From providing information about destinations to help in case of a crisis, the helpline will act as a link between visitors and the tourism department. Depending on the need, the tourists would be told about what places to visit, easiest mode of transport, rentals and advisories on food. It will also aid in online bookings,” said   managing director Akhand Pratap Singh.
 
 Officials said the callers can also seek information like fees to be paid to tour guides or fare for a boat ride in Varanasi. Tourists can also dial the helpline if they face harassment by locals. Their complaints would be lodged and they would be guided for future course of action.
 
 Since the helpline will act as a link between the police and administration, redressal of any tourist complaint will also be facilitated by the helpline. Adequate arrangements are being made to spread the helpline number among tourists. It will be displayed at important places such as railway stations, airports, hotels, restaurants and departmental website.
 
 Officials said that a special software has been developed by   ( ) to run the helpline. “It is one of the many activities planned under one-stop solution for better tourism experience in UP,” said an official, adding that the helpline was announced in December 2017 during the launch of   logo where UP’s tourism website was also inaugurated.
 
 Initially, the helpline will be available in Hindi and English. There are plans to add French, German, Japanese and other languages. Besides, efforts are on to obtain a short code for the helpline which will reduce the toll free number from existing 16 digits to four digits.
 
