Madurai: Pulling up the Hindu religious and charitable endowment (HR&CE) department for failing to maintain temple properties properly, the Madras high court Madurai bench on Monday expressed concern over   being usurped by encroachers. It then suo motu impleaded the state’s HR&CE department commissioner and revenue secretary in a case and ordered them to retrieve the properties of temple/ religious institutions in Tamil Nadu.

 The court also refrained the revenue officials from issuing patta to the temple lands without getting written communication from the HR&CE. It further directed the HR&CE commissioner to initiate prosecution charges against people who are in the possession of temple lands, by following due process of law.
 
 Trustee of Arulmigu Avudainayagi Samedha Desiganatha Swami temple in   district R   filed a case demanding action against former temple trustee U Muthu Chettiar for alienation of temple property and to restore the land. Out of 76 acres 65 cents of land of the temple, 4.5 acres have been granted with patta by the settlement authorities, the petitioner said. 
 
 Justice R   heard it and passed the order. He said, “Needless to say, the properties of religious institutions, more particularly, the temple properties have to be maintained properly in order to derive more income to spend for the betterment of the temples. Statistics reveal that a few years ago there was 5.25 lakh acres of land and only 4.78 acres of land exist now. The balance of nearly 50,000 acres are in the hands of encroachers. No doubt, the HR&CE department, being the competent authority to regulate the affairs of the public relations institutions/temples in the entire state, having failed continuously for a considerable time, should now initiated appropriate steps to retrieve the properties of the temples / religious institutions in the state.”
 
 The judge said, “Prima facie it appears that the properties of the Avudainayagi temple are being swindled in one way or the other by the erstwhile trustees of the temple. The petitioner filed copies of 50 unregistered and unstamped sale agreements to show as to how the clumsily the transactions have been entered into. The agreement is in cyclostyle. The agreements only disclose that the same are executed in the interest of the persons in possession and not in the interest of the temple. The agreements are nothing, but sham documents.”
 
 The judge further said, “It is highly condemnable that despite the court’s directions as early as on October 31, 2014 in another case, the HR&CE commissioner has taken no steps to manage the temple properties properly,” and set aside an order of the HR&CE directing the petitioner to approach appellate forum for retrieval of the temple property. 
 
 Justice   also said the court, considering the various allegations and lapses on the part of the department and in the capacity as ‘parens patriae (parent of the nation in law) wanted to issue directions in the case. 
 
 
