TIRUNELVELI: The mortal remains of Army havildar R  , 36, who died in an accident in   on Sunday, was cremated with full state honours in his native Kalingapatti village in Tirunelveli district of Tamil Nadu on Wednesday morning.

 Minister for adi dravida and tribal welfare V M Rajalakshmi and MDMK general secretary Vaiko were among those who paid homage to the soldier.
 
 Selvakumar from the Madras Regiment was among 18 jawans who were travelling in a truck that fell into a gorge in the early hours of Sunday (April 22). As many as 15 soldiers were rescued. The bodies of two soldiers were retrieved. Selvakumar’s body had been missing and was retrieved after a search. 
 
 Vaiko said the soldier from his village was engaged in a search for extremists on the day the accident happened. He said the truck had fallen into the gorge due to heavy rain and landslide. 
 
 Recalling his interaction with the defence minister to expedite search for Selvakumar who had been initially missing, Vaiko said that on Monday they got information that he had died and his body had been retrieved.
 
 Selvakumar’s family said he joined the Army in 2001. Recently he was promoted as havildar.
 
 The body was flown to Thiruvananthapuram airport early on Wednesday morning and brought to Kalingapatti by road. Scores of villagers thronged his house to pay homage. His body was placed in front of his house for the public to pay homage, before it was taken for cremation.
 
 Minister Rajalakshmi, Vaiko, Vasudevanallur MLA A Manoharan and collector Sandeep Nanduri placed a wreath on the soldier’s body. The body was cremated after a 21-gun salute. Army officers and personnel , police and villagers took part in the final rites.
 
 Selvakumar is survived by his parents Rajendran and Rajesjwari, wife Mariyaselvi alias Kavitha, 34, a son Rahul, 10, and a daughter Pavithra, 8. 
 
 After offering condolences to the family, the minister handed over a cheque for Rs 20 lakh to Kavitha as solatium announced by the state government.
 
 
