Chandigarh: The sight outside the civil   in Sector 22 C, Chandigarh, is a deplorable one. It raises questions on the level of healthcare being offered here. 

 The area outside the main gate of the civil hospital, just next to a police beat box located at the backside of Kiran Theatre, pushed to a side of a street leading to Shastri Market, is completely covered in heaps of garbage and filth. 
 
 The left corner of the gate, just a few feet away from the smaller gate used for entry and exit by people is covered in a tall pile of solid waste, that seems to have not been cleaned since a long time and has thus grown and spread all over the place with time and neglect. The same pile of garbage, also falls in the middle of the rear gate of a veterinary hospital by default, which is located adjacent to the civil hospital, just towards the left of the hospital’s main gate. 
 
 Another pile of garbage can also be seen sitting and growing just a few feet towards the right of the first pile, near the boundary wall of the establishment.
 
 “This is a hospital and look at the condition of its main entrance gate. The garbage here has been accumulating since many days and weeks even, but no pone bothers to clean it. Sometimes, stray dogs come and urinate or defecate on it and the dry leaves keep decaying. The foul odour gets too strong to bear,” said Satyavan, a street vendor selling mattresses. When asked about the regular cleanliness of the spot, numerous shopkeepers and vendors said there was almost a constant absence of safai-karamcharis from the spot. “The last time someone came to clean this place was a almost a month back and since then the place has not been cleaned,” added Satyavan.
 
 The deplorable sight was not only found to be persistent outside the hospital gate, but a large portion of the premises of the hospital was also found to be equally dirty, infested with garbage and filth, raising serious concerns of basic sanitation in the facility. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, Sudha Mathur, a local resident and a customer visiting the market said, “A sight like this, that too outside of a hospital, is alarming. This is an old sector and this market is visited by tourists from outside too. What will they think of our city if heaps of garbage lie neglected like this?”
 
 In the dock
 
 I will look into the matter first and then if need be, we will definitely get the area cleaned.
 
 P S Bhatti | MOH in-charge, Chandigarh municipal corporation
 
 
