The first edition of Bangalore Times Hotlist saw 
  from 
 , 
 from 
 and 
 from 
 top the Best Special Song, Best Romantic Song and Best Party Song categories, respectively. An interesting connect for all three songs is that they’ve been sung by  . The singer, naturally, is over the moon and we caught up with him to take us through each of these songs. Excerpts...
“As an artiste, it is overwhelming, because it shows that people have accepted songs that you have sung in three different genres. For these songs, I would first like to offer a big thanks to music composer  , because Bombe Helutaite and Alladsu Alladsu are two different extremes in terms of genres. 
 is a fun track, yet it has a deep meaning. That is the best part about Yogaraj Bhat’s lyrics. I’m a big fan of his for a simple reason — on the surface, the lyrics he writes are entirely different from what they actually mean. 
 is a song that can have multiple layers. If one gets the song right, it can act like a wake-up call to pursue your dream and accomplish something big. At the same time, it has such a fun tone to it. And this song is the biggest hit for me when I do shows for the IT sector. At corporate events, even non-Kannadigas sing along for this song. Also, the legendary actor-filmmaker Kashinath, who is no more with us, was part of this song. I feel blessed that I got to sing it. 
 Coming to 
 , I don’t have words to express my gratitude for the song. I am amazed at how it took birth and how Harikrishna thought of me to sing it. It was a beautiful song. I went to the studio thrice and I didn’t sing it. I needed a different frame of mind and I requested Harikrishna that I needed some different energy and I needed to do it another day. I want to thank Harikrishna for being so patient. I remember that I finally slept for 10 hours flat and woke up and went directly to the studio and sang the number in 15 minutes. 
 This song is so sensitive, because you are talking about Dr Rajkumar. And there has to be pride when I sing about him, along with humility. I cannot be arrogant, that wasn’t his personality. He was known to be the epitome of humility and yet he was the pride of Karnataka. It was this that I had to portray through the song. I wanted to achieve these two qualities in the song. When I sang this in that frame of mind in 15 minutes, Harikrishna approved it in 15 minutes. Puneeth Rajkumar loved it when he heard it and then the rest was history. This is why the song was so special.
 Talking about
 , it was the most rejuvenating and refreshing song that we’ve heard in the recent times. I have to thank both Ajaneesh Loknath and  . I remember how they had come to my Mumbai studio where we had recorded the song for 
 . I’ve been a huge fan of Ajaneesh and he is an amazing and very talented composer. In fact, the same song in Telugu is topping the charts right now. There was another song I recently sang for Ajaneesh for the Tamil film Nimir that did extremely well. This shows how he’s such an amazing composer, who has crossed many languages now and we should be proud. All these these three songs have done magic in my career. As an artiste, I believe that the song chooses the artiste and as opposed to the other way around. And I’m fortunate to have these three songs as part of my career over the last year.”
 
 
