BHOPAL: Taking a cue from Amit Shah’s statement, BJP supporters in   took to social media on Tuesday to mock   by releasing a cartoon film based on Ramayana which shows Congress state president Kamal Nath as demon king ‘Ravan’ and chief minister Shivraj Singh   as ‘Angad’. BJP president Shah, during his recent visit to Bhopal, had compared BJP as `Angad Ka Paon’, saying nobody could displace the party from MP.

 
 Interestingly, BJP denied having released any such film on social media, Congress has complained about the matter to cyber crime police, naming CM Chouhan, BJP state chief Rakesh Singh and IT cell in-charge Shivraj Dabi. As soon as the cartoon film went viral on social media, Congress and BJP launched verbal attacks on each other.
 
 
 
 
 The cartoon film, laced with humour and wit, mocks the Congress claim to win the elections in Madhya Pradesh after recent changes in the state organisation led by former Union minister Kamal Nath. It depicts Kamal Nath as demon king `Ravana’, and other Congress leaders - Jyotiraditya Scindia, Arun Yadav, Suresh Pachauri, Jitu Patwari and Kunal Choudhary - as courtiers of the demon king. The film also depicts chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan in the role of Angad, the legendary son of Bali, who planted his foot in Ravana’s court and challenged Ravana and his men that if they could move it, Ram would concede defeat and return back without Sita. Each and every generals of Ravan’s army and even his son Indrajit tried to lift his foot, but did not succeed.
 
 While Congress slammed BJP for playing dirty politics ahead of assembly polls, BJP leaders denied that the cartoon film was released by it. Congress has complained the matter to the cyber police alleging that BJP leaders are stoking religious sentiments through such films. “BJP has insulted Ramayana by making trivial cartoons. We have lodged a complaint with the cyber crime police and demanded action against BJP state president Rakesh Singh, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and IT cell in-charge Shivraj Dabi”, Congress state general secretary (administration) Rajiv Singh told TOI.
 
 Rejecting Congress claim, BJP leaders said that Congress was trying to blame BJP without any evidence, which shows how demoralised it is before the elections. “What Amit Shah said is true, but I am not aware of any such cartoon film”, cabinet minister and government spokesperson   said.
 
 Party’s state spokesperson Deepak Vijayavargiya also denied having released any such film. “What our president Amit Shah said is very much true, but BJP did not release any cartoon film. Congress is trying to play dirty poltics by blaming the BJP”, he said.
 
