

 
 
 We (RSS) generally get involved when it comes to national politics. This time we are involved in state assembly elections because of Lok Sabha polls next year. This we deem as semi-finals. Karnataka is the only stronghold of Congress in the country and once we make the state Congress-mukt, it is the end of the story for them. In short, our participation is to influence the 2019 verdict. Otherwise, usually we do not involve ourselves in state or district-level politics.
 
 
 
 There’s an undercurrent of support for the BJP. I’m not thinking that far (fractured verdict). We will think about it when the situation presents itself. As of now I’m sure the   will get a majority and form the government. We’ll definitely get 115 plus. The ground-level report from party workers indicates that.
 
 
 
 No. I don’t think so. Last minute is better. One week of his state tour will help us tremendously.
 
 
 
 There may have been reasons for Yeddyurappa to revolt against the party and leave. But what we cannot forget is that he’s the person who built the party over four decades. He’s a true ‘mannina maga’ unlike JD(S) supremo  . Definitely, when he becomes CM he’ll give a good administration.
 
 
 
 Yes, I’m campaigning for the first time for the party (not candidate). I don’t share stage; my priority is door-to-door visits. We conduct meetings with party workers, assess the situation, check the number of houses covered by them and give them direction on how to go about creating awareness among voters. There are some shortcomings, I agree.
 
 
 
 We want good politics and it takes time to change people’s minds. Till then some compromises are necessary. To undo what the Congress has unleashed in the last seven decades takes time. We cannot change it with the snap of fingers.
 
 
 
 No. We are against policies of the Congress and Rai. Rai, the right hand of CM, has been causing damage to society on a large scale here.
 
 
 
 I believe the BJP can get five to six in Dakshina Kannada district, including Bantwal, Puttur, Belthangady, Moodbidri and Sullia.
 
 
 
 No. It’d mean money power and caste politics have won. Money never played a part in polls here till this time. If they win, it’d be due to their appeasement politics and money power. I heard that in the first round they have distributed Rs 2,000 per house. It may go to Rs 2,000 per individual as poll day nears.
 
