JAIPUR: Health department’s drug controllers have sent out a message to those selling   illegally by filing FIR against three persons in Jaipur and Ajmer as they seized oxytocin injections from their possession.

 Drug controller   said, “We have checked more than 100 dairy farms in the state in past few days to find out if any of them were using it in their farms.”
 
 Sharma said that they took action against the three persons as they were found with oxytocin to prevent its misuse in the dairy sector.
 
 The   will continue its action against misuse of oxytocin in dairy farms by conducting sudden inspections.
 
 “We have inspected over 100 dairy farms but there many more dairy farms in the state which will be inspected to prevent misuse of oxytocin in dairy farms,” he said.
 
 Injecting oxytocin to milch cattle enhances milk production but it has its own risk to human and animals. According to health experts, oxytocin causes hormonal imbalances which shorten life of milch cattle. Also, it increases risk of abortion among human, if they consume vegetable, milk and fruits on which oxytocin is used for enhancing its production.
 
 Drug controller officers inspected dairy farms in all the districts of the state. But, they have found it at one dairy farm in Jodhpur. The officials found 76 bottles of oxytocin from Jodhpur’s   in Shastri Nagar area. The samples of oxytocin have been sent for testing.
 
 Besides, the officials found oxytocin from a Manish Provision Store in Ajmer. Moreover, officials seized 264 bottles of oxytocin from a house in Arjun Nagar and samples sent for testing.
 
 Officials also unearthed a manufacturing a unit producing oxytocin injections in Durgapura in Jaipur. An FIR has also been registered against the owner of the unit at Shiprapath police station.
 
 Officials said that Oxytocin in any form or name is not allowed to be sold through retail chemist.
 
 Recently, the ministry of health and family welfare has restricted the manufacture of oxytocin formulations for domestic use to public sector only. It has also banned the import of oxytocin and its formulations.
 
 
