NAGPUR: Taking cue from the Bor tigress episode, the wildlife wing of the forest department has decided to constitute 10 rapid rescue teams (RRT) in the state to shed dependence on outsiders. Training of elephants with forest department is also part of the project in future.

 “Presently, we will deal with training forest guards and foresters with the help of experts from all over the country. In later stage training to elephants will follow. These RRTs will work as specialized units and be dedicated on the lines of  ,” said principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife) AK Misra.
 
 Misra added the teams will be repeatedly trained in tracking, monitoring and shooting problem animals. They will also be given trainings on the lines of commandos and police. The teams will also be made available to forest divisions to handle man-animal conflict.
 
 “Each RRT will consists of 10 people with 2 shooters. These RRTs will be for four tiger reserves — Pench, Navegaon-Nagzira, Melghat & Bor and territorial circles — Nagpur, Amravati, Yavatmal, Chandrapur, Nashik and Thane,” said N Rambabu, APCCF for wildlife (east).
 
 At least 50 interested young forest guards and foresters from the state have been chosen for three-day training by experts at Vanamati premises at   from January 16-18. Nine experts including controversial hunter Nawab Shafat Ali Khan has also been called as a resource person. 
 
 Presently, there are RRTs but these teams lack skills. Setting up self-sustained RRTs is a long-pending demand. In absence of dedicated RRTs, the forest department has been long dependent on outsiders to tranquillize or shoot problems animals.
 
 Rambabu said, “Our basic objective is to be self-sufficient. Though our officials and staff have handled many cases where stationary animals were involved, our aim to train them to handle moving animals.”
 
 On the inclusion of hunter Khan, APCCF Rambabu said, “We will decide whom to call and whom to not. We are not taking him to the field but want to take the positive aspects of his skill.”
 
 Apart from Nawab, other resource persons include deputy conservator Dr  , retired DFO GK Vashishtha, DFO Uttam  , wildlife vet Dr AD Kholkute and others.
 
 
