Ludhiana: The treatment of polluted Buddha Nullah is going to be a tough task for National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) experts. The scientists, who are taking up the project as a challenge, are likely to visit the city again in March after signing a memorandum with the state government.

 The experts plan to first remove the causes of nullah’s pollution. “We will upgrade the existing capacity of the sewerage treatment plant on Tajpur Road, which is a major cause of Buddha Nullah’s pollution. The plant has a capacity to treat 48 MLDs of water daily, but it receives more than 80 MLD water. As a result, it is unable to function properly and releases untreated water into the drain,” said NEERI scientist Tuhin Banerjee. 
 
 Besides Ludhiana, the environment institute team plans to launch the clean-up project in other cities of Punjab, including Amritsar, Jalandhar and Patiala, too, in a phased manner from March. As part of it, saplings will be planted along the drains and water cleaned with advanced technology. This treated water will be fit for gardening, toilet flushing and even irrigation.
 
 “After the sewerage treatment plant, we will take up the other causes of Ludhiana drain’s pollution. We have signed a memorandum with the state government to take up the related issues with the departments concerned. The work to clean drains will first start in Amritsar and then Ludhiana. It is a tedious task and will take at least three to four years,” Banerjee added. 
 
 Local bodies minister Navjot Sidhu said the cabinet would approve the project work after NEERI scientists submitted their report. “We plan to develop walking parks along the drains after their water was cleaned,” the minister added.
 
 Even in 2009, NEERI had suggested ways to clean up Buddha Nullah. It had then advised installation of separate common effluent treatment plants to check pollutants released by dyeing units. However, the common effluent treatment plants are under-construction eight years later. 
 
 
