MADURAI: As many as nine political leaders, including   executive president M K Stalin, Makkal Needhi Maiyam Kamal Haasan, VCK leader Thirumavalavan, Congress’s S Thirunavukkarasu, CPM’s N Balakrishnan and CPI leader R Mutharasan visited the   government hospital to mourn the victims of the police firing. They also spoke to the families of those injured on Wednesday. All of them had only one demand : Closure of the Sterlite plant and resignation of the AIADMK government.

 Stalin, who spoke to mediapersons after visiting the patients, said that the chief minister Eddapadi K Palaniswami and his ministers should have ideally come to Tuticorin on Wedneday and assured the people that the Sterlite plant would be closed permanently. “They are more concerned about their positions, it is time that the entire government resigned. DGP Rajendran should take responsibility for the brutal massacre and resign and the Collector and SP of Tuticorin should be transferred immediately,” he said. The DMK leader also handed over cash relief to the families of the victims as well as injured.
 
 Kamal Haasan said that the violence and the loss of life had proved that the only solution to the problem was the closure of the Sterlite plant permanently. Most of those injured as well as those who died were daily wagers who had come to see the protest. ``No compensation can compensate the loss of life,’’ he said. The postmortem should be conducted by a neutral doctor and it should be revealed without further delay as to who was responsible for giving the shooting orders,’’ he said.
 
  state secretary   who decided to go on an indefinite fast along with five others was arrested near the VVD Signal. He said that the families of the dead should be given Rs 1 crore each and that the superintendent of police and district collector of Tuticorin should be placed under suspension. Actor-turned-politician T Rajendran said that the government should not be allowed to continue as it is a “puppet government dancing to the tune of the BJP government and killing people,’’ he said. IAS officer Gagandeep Singh Bedi told reporters that he had come to help the district return to normalcy as soon as possible.
 
 
