VIRUDHUNAGAR: Four workers, including a woman, died and six others suffered grievous injuries in blasts at two different fireworks manufacturing units in Virudhunagar district of Tamil Nadu on Friday.

 Four workers were loading finished fireworks on to a truck at Ramuthevanpatti around 11am when the first blast occurred. Two of them, P Ravi, 43, from Alagankulam and A Sekar, 41, from Lakshmiyapuram died on the spot while two others, S Senthilkumar, 36, and P Palanisamy, 35, suffered severe injuries. They were admitted to the Centre of Excellence to   at Sivakasi. 
 
 Fire tenders from Sivakasi rushed to the spot and doused the blaze. The truck was damaged in the fire. Workers sensing the danger fled from the spot. 
 
 Half-an-hour later, there was another blast in a fireworks unit at Kakkiwadanpatti in the same area. The workers were involved in making fancy type fireworks, involving pellets of volatile chemical mixture, when the blast occurred. Two workers, S Subramani, 40 and B Deivanai, 28, from Kannatipatti were killed on the spot while four others, I Paramasivam, 19, S  , 31, S  , 31, and M Ganapathi, 30, suffered severe injuries. They were rescued and rushed to the Centre of Excellence to treat Burn Injuries at Sivakasi where their condition is said to be critical. 
 
 The   and the Maraneri police stations registered cases against the factory owners and managerial staff of the two fireworks units. Maraneri police arrested the manager and foreman of the unit while Alangulam police arrested the factory accountant for negligence.
 
 This is third incident in one week’s time as a worker, M Alagar, 50 from Moorthinaickenpatti died in a blast at fireworks unit at Chathiram near   on Thursday. He was first to report to duty and was mixing chemicals when the accident occurred.
 
 On March 30, two workers were killed and one more worker suffered severe burn injuries when there was a blast at a fireworks unit at O Kovilpatti near   in the district. The accident too occurred in the morning when the workers were involved in mixing chemicals for the day’s production.
 
 
