AMRITSAR: Assured marketing of their produce has encouraged farmers of villages situated in lower Shivalik ranges of Punjab to diversify from traditional wheat and paddy cultivation to growing medicinal and  .

 “I used to collect fuel and fodder from the forest and take animals for grazing but now in one year our group of five has earned around Rs 2.7 lakh by growing medicinal plants and preparing end products at our homes,” said   of Kakdui village, 12km from Pathankot, on Tuesday. Sudarshna is one among hundreds of men and women who had meagre source of income since their fields were in the rainfed areas and had no other source of irrigation, said Pathankot divisional forest officer ( ) Sanjiv Tiwari.
 
 “We have a tie-up with ayurvedic pharmaceutical companies to assure 100% buyback of their produce. These firms also provide farmers with know-how on cultivating medicinal plants,” said Tiwari. He said their products were uploaded on the Make in Punjab website, which has attracted several buyers so far. These self-help groups cultivate common medicinal trees, including ‘amla’, ‘basuti’, ‘giloey’, ‘behera’, ‘harrar’, ‘kachnar’, ‘jamun’, ‘arjun’ and ‘khair’ and aromatic plants, including lemon grass, palmarosa, mint and geranium.
 
 Tiwari said that the state forest and wildlife department also extends financial help to these groups by way of constructing sheds, providing various types of equipment and machinery. He further said not only the farmers of these villages were entirely dependent on rain for their crops but they had to suffer heavy losses due to crop damage by wild animals. Tiwari added that they had also opened a herbal outlet in Pathankot, income of which touched Rs 1.4 lakh in a year.
 
 About her success story, Sudarshna said she started all alone but now she had a group of five women, who grow medicinal plants and prepare products like ‘amla’ juice, pickle, power, candy, marmalade and seeds and had no problem with marketing since it had been assured by the forest department. “These groups in turn also help to protect the forest from fire and tree felling,” said the DFO.
 
 A success story
 
  has scripted a success story by planting aromatic plants lemongrass and palmarosa at Rohag village of Dhar Kalan block in Pathankot. Pathania began growing aromatic plants on five acres of non-cultivable land with the help of Punjab State Council for Science and Technology, which has now become a major source of his income. “Cultivation of lemongrass and palmarosa has proved to be a boon for this area,” he said, adding that the same could help double the income of farmers. He said like other farmers of the area, he too had to suffer immense loss of crop due to wild animals. He saidd that cultivation of aromatic plants could yield around Rs 70,000 to Rs 80,000 per annum.
 
