MUMBAI: If a builder breaches the Supreme Court’s conditions for lifting the ban on new constructions in Mumbai, the   can revoke permission and order stoppage of work. Also, the BMC cannot permit construction unless it locates a landfill and obtains an NOC from the owner for allowing debris to be deposited there. A builder must adopt adequate safeguards to prevent the dispersal of particles in the air.

  
  
 
 An SC division bench of Justices S A Bobde and L   made it clear that the order was not intended to set aside or modify the HC’s order. Rather, it was only to explore the possibility of a safe method of permitting certain constructions in Mumbai for a limited period to pave the way for further orders. The bench observed that near-total prohibition has serious ramifications on the housing sector, which is of great significance in a city like Mumbai.
 
 
 “It also has a serious impact on loans obtained by developers. Such a ban makes serious inroads into the rights of citizens under Articles 19, 21 and 300A of the Constitution. Though it might be equally true that... neglect in disposing of debris invades the rights of other citizens under Article 21, etc. That issue is left open for proper determination,” it said.
 
 Laying the premise for the order, the bench said the ban was imposed by the HC because of the alarming impact of the inability of the BMC to safely dispose of debris generated by the construction industry.
 
 It was argued before the SC that such debris can be safely disposed of at designated sites, whoever they belong to, provided they were available for the purpose. To ensure that the order is followed, the SC has allowed a monitoring committee to inspect municipal records pertaining to the grant of IODs and also visit disposal sites; the panel can also bring to the notice of the BMC any breach of IOD conditions. The SC has said the BMC shall pass a speaking order on such objections within a month. The top court has directed the BMC to submit a report after six months.
 
 Anuj Puri, chairman,  , said developers were hit hard by the ban. “It caused the construction cycle to increase at great cost to the affected builders. New projects were put on hold. The lifting of the ban comes in the nick of time to save the day for the coming festive season, during which many people traditionally buy new property. The lifting of the ban will help builders announce new launches and begin recovering some of the ground they lost. In a market environment, where almost every decision has been going against developers, this comes as a huge respite.”
 
 Architect Vilas Nagalkar said the order will discipline the construction industry. Developer   said, “Many residents of old buildings in the suburbs were affected because of the stay order which prevented redevelopment (as sale components werent allowed).” Builder Nayan Shah guesstimated that around 700 to 800 redevelopment projects were affected this way each year since the stay came into force two years ago.
 
