NAGPUR: The blaze in two coaches of 22416 New Delhi-Visakhapatnam   Express not only threw train traffic out of gear on the north-south route but also gave a harrowing time for passengers of 18238 Amrtisar-Bilaspur Chhattisgarh Express which had no water for more than 20 hours.

 Fire in two coaches of AP Express at 11.45am near the Birlanagar station near Gwalior delayed several trains including Chhattisgarh Express which was stranded at 12.30pm for over 5 hours at an isolated place ahead of Gwalior station.
 
 According to Tulsidas Varma, a Nagpur-based passenger, the train left Amritsar at 4.15pm on Sunday. “At Ludhiana there was no water in the train and a complaint was lodged but the station manager said it will be filled at the next station.”
 
 Varma said the matter was also reported at Agra and Mathura but still water was not filled. Later, due to the fire incident traffic came to a standstill and the train was stopped near Gwalior for over 5 hours. There was no food or water.
 
 Another passenger Sanjay Agrawal said, ‘It is peak summer and ACs too were not working and several passengers had come out the coaches where the train had stopped.”
 
 “After the train left at 6pm for Gwalior, water was filled partially, but again there was a problem. The train was packed with devotees returning from   in Punjab,” said Inder Kumar, a passenger.
 
 “We complained to train ticket examiner (TTE) Ajay Dubey but he did not do anything,” said Varma.
 
 A passenger Subhash Dahagane said there was no water filling even at Jhansi station where passengers resorted to chain-pulling for five times. “We were told y RPF personnel that it would be filled at Bina station,” he said.
 
 The South East Central Railway (SECR) train perhaps takes the longest running time (44 hours) from   to Amritsar. SECR’s senior public relations officer (SrPRO)   said, “It is completely the fault of stations falling in between or those did not do at the start. There is a policy to do refilling of water where facility is available.”
 
 Meanwhile, in a release Central Railway said, following the fire incident at least five trains were running behind schedule by 3 to 13 hours from north to south direction.
 
 
