MUMBAI: Two businessmen and a   agent who fraudulently diverted ‘duty drawbacks’ incentive of legitimate exporters were arrested by the Directorate Revenue Intelligence (DRI).

 Duty drawback compensates exporters for the duties paid on inputs used to manufacture exported products. On Friday, Customs agent Mohammed Shaikh alias Arife, businessmen   and Ramesh Singh were taken into custody. DRI officials are looking for Arjun Goregaonkar, a Customs agent operating at  .
 
 “Goregaonkar appears to be the kingpin behind the racket. Goregaonkar would hand over the details of exporters, whose duty drawbacks reimbursement had been put on hold, to Lassanwala and Singh,” said an official.
 
 “The two businessmen, in turn, would give exporters’ names, import-export code numbers, shipping bills and amount of drawback kept on hold to Arife who would open new bank accounts in the names of such exporters. Arife would forge documents like PAN card, Aadhaar, income tax and service tax returns,” he added.
 
 Once the account was opened, the accused would apply to customs for change of bank accounts of the exporters in their system through Goregaonkar. Goregaonkar would use his influence to ensure that exporters, whose incentives were withheld for some reasons, would get a clean chit and the duty drawbacks disbursed, but without them getting any alerts. When the duty drawbacks would get disbursed, the money would land in the bank accounts opened fraudulently by Lassanwala and Singh. The money disbursed would later be withdrawn and shared between the fraudsters, said an official. Investigations have revealed the accused fraudulently claimed around Rs 10 crore of duty drawback. Ravi Hirani, counsel for the accused, said, “My clients have helped genuine people to claim duty drawback, which was pending with the department for a long period. They had no knowledge about any irregularities done by others. The real culprits are absconding and department has made a scapegoat of my clients.”
 
 Over the last few years several cases of people misusing the incentive have surfaced. In February, after arresting the two businessmen from Surat for alleged fraudulently availing duty drawbacks, the DRI arrested an NRI who aided in the racket. The DRI arrested  , a businessman based in Dubai, after he landed from the UAE at the international airport. Officials said that the immigration cell alerted the DRI as a look-out notice had been issued. Premjani was the sixth person to be arrested in the duty drawback racket worth crores. In January, businessmen   and Viral Vora were accused of fraudulently exporting merchandise by wrongly declaring them and inflating its value and availing duty drawbacks and getting illegal remittances from abroad.
 
