AHMEDABAD: Former chief minister   has been appointed the next governor of Madhya Pradesh, in what could potentially bring the curtain down on the long and successful political career of a woman who rose from a humble background to serve as the first woman chief minister of  .

 Gujarat governor O P Kohli, who holds additional charge of Madhya Pradesh, will shortly hand over charge to Anandiben.
 
 Anandiben, who became Gujarat CM after Narendra Modi assumed office as PM in 2014, was forced to step down in August 2016 following the Patidar agitation and national uproar over the Una Dalit flogging. She had resigned on Facebook, citing her nearing 75 years of age and saying “she was old now and it was time for new leadership to take over”.
 
 Ahead of the Gujarat assembly polls in December, Patel, the MLA from   constituency, had declined to contest polls citing her age. She, however, actively campaigned for the party amid strong speculation that it was a matter of time before she was nominated as governor of a neighbouring BJP-ruled state.
 
 On Friday night, the President’s official Twitter handle announced, :The President of India is pleased to appoint   Patel to be the governor of Madhya Pradesh with effect from the date she assumes charge of her office.”
 
 Anandiben told TOI, “I have heard about my appointment as governor of MP but have not yet received the formal order. I am ready to take on any responsibility entrusted to me by the party. It is a new responsibility and am ready to take it.”
 
 Interestingly, veteran BJP leader from Rajkot and Karnataka governor   was also keen on a transfer to a Raj Bhavan in a Hindi speaking state citing the “language barrier in Karnataka”. Anandiben’s appointment indicates that he will have to wait.
 
 Anandiben has long been discussed as among Modi government’s likely gubernatorial picks. In fact, in March last year, there was a strong buzz that she had been asked to take charge as governor of Tamil Nadu, which she denied. She was also speculated as BJP’s possible preference for vicepresident.
 
 
