TRICHY: Several events were organised with different themes and on various issues concerning women in the city on Thursday on the occasion of International Women’s Day. While women’s groups conducted felicitation programmes, academic institutions organised speeches and skits to create awareness about women empowerment.

 As many as 44 women’s clubs joined hands and took part in ‘International Women’s Day – 2018’ programme that was held at Femina Hotel. The event was conducted under the leadership of former vice-chancellor of   K   and prominent actress   presided over as the chief guest.
 
 Nithya delivered a speech on the topic ‘Press For Progress,’ “We as women should not only think about taking care of our family members as our responsibility – taking care of our own selves is equal to or more important,” she said.
 
 At Women’s Day celebrations conducted at Holy Cross College (HCC),   leader Seeman was invited as the chief guest. He spoke on various topics including the current political scenario and the reformations that should be made in the state. He urged women students to fight for their rights and to question government policies and decisions.
 
 The theme for the event at HCC was ‘Women – Architects of the Society’ and skits that were staged, primarily focused on day-to-day issues faced by women and on the scenario of women farmers. Assistant professor at HCC M   stated that the college wanted to lay emphasis on issues that weren’t focused on in the previous years. “Previously, our college usually used to invite a woman chief guest and the topic would only be about basic empowerment. But this year, we did skits wherein we spoke about the socio-economic scenario, the opportunities for women farmers and more,” he stated.
 
 Meanwhile at National College doctor   who was invited as the chief guest, conducted a session to create awareness about women’s health issues and how they should go about treating them. Apart from award ceremonies for women achievers, book releases were also organised. 
 
 
