KOCHI: The authenticity of data on ‘casteless and religion-less’ students in the state has been questioned but there are many who feel   could show the way to the rest of the country by turning into such an egalitarian society gradually. The decision by some parents to leave the columns on caste and religion blank is indicative of the progressive outlook of citizens, they said.

 “It is a welcome decision as it is a voluntary one. The main purpose of a religion/caste certificate is for facilitating marriages and access welfare schemes provided by the government. Parents wanting their children to learn to live without caste is a positive development and I hope that a time will come when it will cease to be important,” said Justice G  , chairperson, Kerala state commission for backward classes.
 
 The only consequence is that the identity regarding an individual’s caste remains unknown. “In case of college admission and government jobs, if you do not show caste, it will be treated as general category. That is all. Those who are desirous of maintaining the caste name for all purposes will give their details,” he said.
 
 Justice Sivarajan said that at a later stage, if someone feels that a certificate is needed, he/she can approach revenue authorities who will issue it after verification.
 
 There is a need for an institutional mechanism and legal framework to ensure that children who are forgoing the social benefits do not lose out because of the decision taken by their parents, said Dr  , econometrist and director, Centre for the Study of Social Exclusion and Inclusive Policy, Cochin University of Science and Technology.
 
 “The impact of such decisions will be known probably after 15 years when the child gets into college. Almost all the central government schemes including those for education and jobs are linked to reservation. The very purpose of the caste census was to plan the percentage of reservation based on the community numbers,” he said.
 
 “For example, OBCs or Muslims may be better off in this state, but across the country, that is not the case. So, unless the country achieves such an egalitarian status, I don’t think it is a cause for celebration. Lot of serious discussion needs to be done to bring about such a social revolution,” he added
 
 
