LUCKNOW/LONDON: Continuing with his disclosures on   (CA), the firm at the heart of allegations of data leak from  , whistle-blower   on Wednesday claimed that the UK-based firm's offshoot, SCL India, managed campaigns of a number of candidates in 2009 Lok Sabha polls. 

  The firm also handled election work in UP, MP, Rajasthan and Bihar for various clients between 2003 and 2012. While Wylie named JD-U as a client for the 2010 Bihar assembly polls, parties for other assembly polls are not named. Wylie claimed that SCL India carried out a caste census in UP in 2012 on behalf of a national party aimed at identifying the "party's core voters and likely swing voters". 
 
 
  
 
 Wylie said SCL India also undertook a research communication campaign to counter recruitment into jihadism in six states - Kerala, West Bengal, Assam, Bihar, Jharkhand and UP. It was also involved in psephological studies and behavioural polling in Delhi and  .
 
 SCL India was a joint venture between SCL UK and the firm of JD-U leader  's son Amrish, Ovleno Business Intelligence (OBI) Private Limited. It was floated in 2011 and registered with the Kanpur office of Registrar of Companies (RoC).
 
 Apart from Congress, Wylie has directly named only one political party, JD(U), while claiming that "SCL India was asked to provide electoral research and strategy for the 2010 state elections for the JD(U)".
 
 Talking about the work SCL did for JD-U in 2010 Bihar polls, the tweet says: “SCL undertook a behavioural research programme targeting over 75% of households to assist the client in not only identifying the correct battlegrounds, but also the right audiences, messages and most importantly the right castes to target with their campaigns.”
 
 Reacting to Wylie’s revelations, KC Tyagi said: “The so called whistleblower worked for four months or so. These are complete lies. Even the parent firm has denied his claims. Besides, I have only one point to make: if anyone wants investigation, they should do it.”
 
 There was no response from CA’s Oxford Street head office in London when contacted by TOI. However, in a statement posted on its Twitter account, the firm branded Wylie’s statement to a House of Commons committee on Tuesday as “false information, speculation, and completely unfounded conspiracy theories”. Wylie had told the committee that CA undertook work for Congress and worked “extensively in India”.Documents available with TOI though reveal that SCL India was officially registered in Kanpur in India in 2011with the operational address at 540, Niti Khand-III, Indirapuram, Ghaziabad.
 
 SCL India, which still continues to exist, has had four directors including Alexander James Ashburner Nix, who has now been suspended from Cambridge Analytica, since 2011. Among other directors is Amrish.Wylie has also claimed that SCL India had 10 regional offices in Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Cuttack, Ghaziabad, Guwahati, Hyderabad, Indore, Kolkata, Patna and Pune.
 
 Wylie further claims that SCL India in 2007 was asked to undertake a research communication campaign to support a "transnational programme for countering the non-desired behaviour of recruitment into and support of, violent jihadism”. “The project focused on ancillary populations as opposed to perpetrators of violent jihadism themselves and required in depth motivational understanding of the populations of six states,” the document in the photo tweet says.
 
 The tweet reveals that SCL India has a database of more than 600 districts and 7 lakh villages in India, which is constantly being updated.
 
 It also says that in 2011, SCL India undertook a research campaign among 200 million people in UP to “identify voter caste by household” while in 2007 UP polls, it carried out a full political survey “on behalf of a major party”.
 
 
 
