Around 65 million people across the world suffer from the skin disorder called Vitiligo. It shows up as unsightly white patches on skin. Doctors say this occurs because of the complete absence of pigment producing cells in the skin, called melanocytes. It is not a serious, mortal disease, and is common enough too, but unfortunately, there is a certain stigma attached to it. 

 Fitness and lifestyle professional   shares, “My husband  , has had it for many years. The good news is that exercise, good nutrition to boost immunity, adequate sleep, and a healthy lifestyle plays a huge, positive role, and work wonders in fighting vitiligo.”
 
 
 
 Dermatologist Dr   says, “With our current knowledge of the condition and treatment options, the word ‘cure’ cannot be used with vitiligo. It can be controlled and individual patches can be re-pigmented. It is difficult to predict the future course of the condition in a patient right at it’s onset. Certain oral medications, which modify the function of the immune system, are used to control the spread of the disease. Topical medications and controlled exposure to ultraviolet light are used to re-pigment patches.”
 
 
 
 Dermatologists state that there is no relation between diet and 
 . Dr Rickson adds, "Those with 
  tend to avoid non-vegetarian foods including fish; milk, citrus foods, white colored foodstuffs after listening to people around them. But it is important to follow a balanced diet which incorporates a wide range of nutrients such as vitamin B12, folic acid, vitamin D and antioxidants. These nutrients are important for cell growth and survival of melanocytes. Incorporate fresh fruits and vegetables containing yellow and red pigment (carotenoids) for their favorable antioxidant profiles."
 
 
 
 The legendary Micheal Jackson had excessive vitiligo and doctors had to opt for different kinds of treatments for him. Dermatologist Dr   says, “His case was rare – 90 per cent of his skin had become white. It was almost impossible to treat that and make it black again. So doctors, after much debate, had come to a conclusion that the remaining 10 per cent be turned white. They used Monobenzylether of hydroquinone in very high concentration to make the remaining black skin into white.”
 Dermatologist Dr   says, “Placental extracts contain an abundance of stem cells, vitamins, growth factors, proteins and enzymes, which help the body to heal and repair itself. It is sometimes used for vitiligo treatment.”
 
 
 
 Exercising and doing yoga asanas are effective in developing stamina and increasing immunity, say experts.   says, “Exercise will help develop new cells while removing and clearing away dead skin cells. Perform your exercises under the supervision of trained exercise personnel. Perspiration minimises the occurrence of skin problems. Exercise acts on the endocrine glands, thus regulating the production of hormones.”
 
  
  
 Fitness model and entrepreneur  , an Indian-American has fought against this disease for nearly 15 odd years before she decided to finally come out in the open and take the cause head on. An overcomer, today she lives her dream of spreading awareness about the cause that has since generations been a stigma in Indian society. 
 
 
 
 These days, very high quality concealors are available and also prescribed by doctors to conceal the discoloured patches of skin. These are usually waterproof and can give complete coverage for hours.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Although vitiligo-specific diet isn’t supported by much scientific data, experts recommend a diet that can boost the immune system. A strong immune system can easily prevent the spread of the disease. Keep in mind…
 
 
 
