Lack of seniority was an expansive ruse on the   government's part to return the recommendation for Justice K M Joseph's appointment as a   judge to the collegium for reconsideration. Since the   came into existence in 1950, each and every Chief Justice of India, whether singularly till 1993 or collectively as part of the five-member collegium, had given scant importance to 'seniority' while recommending the name of an HC judge or a chief justice for appointment to the SC. 

  In this column, we had mentioned how Y V Chandrachud, the CJI with the longest tenure of seven years, had expressed frustration with the Union government which always used 'delay' as a weapon to stall appointments recommended by the CJI. 
 
  P N Bhagwati became CJI on July 12, 1985, after being the senior-most judge for seven years behind Chandrachud. Nearly a year later, the sanctioned strength of the SC was increased to 26 from 18, both inclusive of the CJI, despite opposition from Bhagwati. 
 
  Bhagwati faced one of the most difficult tenures as CJI with regard to appointment of  . Rajiv Gandhi government's law minister A K Sen pressed Bhagwati to accept appointment of Delhi HC CJ Prakash Narain as an SC judge. Bhagwati refused and threatened to resign if Narain was forced on him. 
 
  Bhagawati wanted Bombay HC judge P B Sawant, who was a leader of the PIL movement in Maharashtra, in the SC. Sawant was eighth in seniority in Bombay HC. Bhagwati's proposal was opposed by Bombay HC judges and advocates. Senior judges threatened to resign and conveyed this through the governor to then President Zail Singh. Sen asked and Bhagwati agreed to withdraw the proposal. Sawant made it to the SC four years later in 1989. 
 
  "Only five of the dozen recommended during Bhagwati's 17-month tenure as CJI were accepted. For a man who wanted to redefine the court's mission and was eager to bring to Delhi men who would either share his goals or would not stand in the way, Bhagwati's inability to gain approval for his choices was very disappointing," wrote George H Gadbois, the legendary researcher on SC and its judges. Bhagwati told him that his experience with government regarding appointments was "absurd and humiliating". 
 
  On the eve of his retirement, Bhagwati said, "I cannot help saying that the non-appointment of judges to the Supreme Court for several months has operated as an act of cruelty to the existing judges who are carrying an intolerable burden." When he retired on December 21, 1986, there were only 14 judges against a sanctioned strength of 26. 
 
  R S Pathak, who succeeded Bhagwati as CJI, faced difficulty in getting names cleared for appointment as SC judges. For nearly a year in 1988, there were no appointments as the government just sat on recommendations. Exasperated by the long delays, an SC bench of Justices R N Misra and M N Venkatachaliah (as reported in TOI on November 18, 1988) set a December 7, 1988, deadline to fill up vacancies. The bench said if the government failed to meet the deadline, "entire record about such recommendations must be submitted to the court for scrutiny". The threat worked. S R Pandian, K N Saikia, K T Thommen, A M Ahmadi and Kuldip Singh took oath on December 14, 1988. So, delaying appointments is not a new trick that the NDA government has discovered. 
 
  I have watched the SC and its judges closely since 1998. It is still a mystery why some judges took more than 16 years as an HC judge to become Supreme Court judge while some took less than 10 years to reach the apex court. 
 
  Let us examine past CJIs since 1998. Justice A S Anand served the longest - 16 years and five months - as HC judge before being appointed to the SC. Those who served more than 15 years in HCs before coming to the SC are B N Kirpal, Altamas Kabir and Dipak Misra. In the category of serving more than 14 years as HC judge are S P Bharucha, K G Balakrishnan, R M Lodha and T S Thakur. 
 
  In the over 13 year category are V N Khare, Y K Sabharwal and H L Dattu. While G B Patnaik and S H Kapadia served a little over 12 years as HC judges before getting appointed to the SC, P Sathasivam and J S Khehar were luckier as they became SC judges after serving 11 years and some months as HC judges. The luckiest among all was S Rajendra Babu, who made it to the SC after serving 9 years and seven months as HC judge. 
 
 When Dattu was appointed as an SC judge, his seniority in the all-India list of HC judges was 39th which means he superseded 38 HC judges. Similarly, Lodha superseded seven HC judges in getting to the SC. In a pool of over 1,000 HC judges, nearly 50 are always in the race for getting appointed as SC judges.
 
 A sitting judge said, "The race is so competitive that even the best HC judges need some kind of help, either a godfather in the collegium or a bigwig in the government."
 
  This makes me recall what CJI Anand had said in December 1999. Several recommendations from the collegium were pending with then President K R Narayanan, who was refusing to sign warrants of appointments. When Anand went to persuade the President, Narayanan bluntly told him that he would not approve appointments unless the collegium recommended Justice K G Balakrishnan's elevation to the SC. The collegium could delay recommending Balakrishnan's appointment to the SC by eight months, long enough to curtail his tenure as CJI to three and a half years. 
 
  When the selection of judges is opaque, arbitrary and smacks of favouritism, there is enough room for the executive to put a spoke even on a ground as frivolous as 'seniority'. 
 
 
