PUNE: Yerawada police arrested eight men on Tuesday for   a   and robbing two persons — a man and a woman — of cash and jewellery in two separate incidents at Laxminagar slums on the night of February 19. They had also threatened the victims. The incidents occurred at c around 9.30pm on February 19.

 Shahrukh Sayyed, one of the arrested suspects, was earlier detained by the Pune police at the Kolhapur jail under the Maharashtra Prevention of Dangerous Activities (MPDA) Act. Sayyed was released from the jail about two months ago and had returned to criminal activities. The others arrested men include Ronak Dhotre, Dinesh Siddha, Sameer Shaikh, Ashraf Pathan, Shahnawaz Khan, Swapnil Chavan and Vicky Sarode. Many of these men too have police records. Police investigations have revealed that Shahnawaz and Ashraf are wanted in a molestation and body offence cases, while Chavan has five cases against him.
 
 Sayyed and his accomplices had established a reign of terror in Laxminagar slums in Yerawada. On February 19, at about 9.30 pm, they vandalised a car and robbed 33-year-old Rehana Shaikh of Rs 1,000. They threatened to disfigure her by throwing acid on her face. Later the same night, the suspects robbed 24-year-old Javed Shaikh of his gold chain, silver bracelet and Rs 700.
 
 “We have clubbed Rehana and Javed’s complaints. Sayyed and his accomplices have been arrested on charges of dacoity among other charges of the IPC and Arms Act. A magisterial court sent them to police remand till February 25 on Wednesday,” said Suryakant Marode, assistant inspector, Yerawada police.
 
 Incidentally, some of the arrested men are also connected to a separate case of extortion. On January 21, Akash Phuge was arrested for demanding Rs 10,000 from a hotelier here. Sayyed, Sarode and Chavan are Phuge’s aides, and investigations have revealed their role in the extortion bid. Phuge is in police remand till February 23, Marode said.
 
 All the suspects were registered under the guidance of senior inspector Mukund Mahajan and inspector Ashok Kadam.
 
