JAIPUR: Three months after the bypoll debacle that left the state   and   for answers, the much anticipated change in the party’s leadership finally came on Wednesday. Ashok Parnami has resigned as the state president of BJP, though citing personal reasons.

 
 
  
 
 “I have forwarded my resignation to the party high command on Monday. I have resigned on personal reasons but will continue to serve the party in a dedicated manner. Accepting whatever responsibility that the party gives me, I will work towards strengthening it,’’ said Parnami, while addressing the media at his residence on Wednesday.
 
 On Wednesday only, he was appointed as a member of the national working committee.
 
 When asked if his resignation was a fallout of the bypoll debacle, he said, “A party’s performance in an election – be it victory or defeat – is a collective responsibility. Individuals are not responsible.’’ Speculations of Parnami’s ouster was doing the rounds since February 1 after   lost by-elections in two Lok   seats and an assembly seat in the state. All the three were previously held by the party.
 
 With the state assembly elections scheduled for later this year, the bypolls defeats put the state BJP in a tight spot. This was followed by the party’s dismal performance in panchayat and civic body polls which further fuelled speculations of a major change in the party organisation, building pressure on the seniors to find a scapegoat.
 
 The demand for an image makeover ahead of the assembly polls, which is viewed as a major challenge for the ruling party, had been rising.
 
 
 
 
 In a tenture spanning four years and two months, what is believed to have gone against him is that the grassroots level workers were unhappy with him.
 
 Several people within the party said that the poor performance of the party in the bypolls reflected his failure to mobilise the workers on a massive scale.
 
 Despite having a strong RSS background, which worked in his favour when he was appointed as the state president in 2014, he had failed to ensure a cordial working between the RSS and the party.
 
 It is also alleged that he failed to get a handle on the caste-politics. “Parnami, who belongs to the Punjabi community, does not fit into BJP’s social-engineering in an election year. In the current scenario, the party needs to gain support of larger communities to win the state assembly election,’’ admitted a senior party leader.
 
