Madurai: Prices of the famous Madurai malli, the fragrant jasmine endemic to this region, touched an all-time high of Rs 3,500 at the Madurai flower market on Thursday, due to low supply and high demand. Jasmine is a major produce in the Madurai flower market, one of the biggest flower markets in the state, and during peak season the market received about 10 tonnes per day. A study undertaken by DHAN foundation said that jasmine is cultivated on 7,800 hectares in Tamil Nadu, out of the total 20,000 hectares which is under flower cultivation. About 60,000 tonnes of jasmine are produced annually in Tamil Nadu. In Madurai, about 2,000 hectares are under jasmine cultivation with 20,000 farmers focusing solely on jasmine farming. Farmers in some parts of Peraiyur, Melur, Thirumangalam, Usilampatti, Chellampatti in Madurai and also other districts including Aruppukottai in Virudhunagar, Natham in Dindigul and Uthappanaickanur in Theni district, are known for large-scale production of the Madurai malli, which is characterised by its intoxicating fragrance and thick petals.  Jasmine, a seasonal shrub, starts flowering between February to April and the market starts receiving about a tonne of buds, by which it is weighed and during mid-season, even 10 tonnes arrive in the market on a daily basis. The flowering starts to decline by the end of August. Though this year’s supply in the last one week was not unusual with the market getting a supply of one tonne or less, the huge demand resulted in the price going up. President of the Madurai Meenakshi Flower Market Association, Pookadai S Ramachandran said, “I have been a trader here for the last 47 years. It is the first time that I am seeing jasmine prices reaching so high. I expect that the prices will remain high for the next few weeks, till the flowering pattern changes, with the onset of summer.” Retailers are selling a strand of 100 buds at Rs 100, as with the marriage season beginning on Friday, there are takers for it irrespective of the price. “I sold my entire basket for Rs 5,000 in a house where there was a wedding,” said Vedavalli, a vendor in Anna Nagar. A G Pandi, a farmer from K Perumalpatti village in Kaloothu panchayat in Usilampatti union said that extremely cold climatic conditions prevailing in the district was affecting the flowering. “We are struggling to get even two kg from an acre, in spite of spraying chemicals in large quantities to keep off the pests,” he said. A sunny weather is what aids jasmine production, where, as much as 120kg of buds can be collected in a day from an acre, he added. Drought that prevailed in the region also destroyed the jasmine crops in hundreds of acres and farmers did not go for replanting for want of water, another reason for the low supply to the market.