MADURAI: The tahsildar of   has been asked to appear before the Madras high court Madurai bench in a case seeking to allow traditional fishermen to attend the St Antony’s Church festival at   in   by using their country boats fitted with engines. 

 A division bench headed by justice M Sathyanarayanan gave this direction on a batch of two petitions including one filed by   from Rameswaram and adjourned the case to February 21. 
 
 The petitioners appeared before the court and said that the festival, scheduled on February 23 and 24 is very famous among fishermen in Rameswaram. At present, Fr Antonysamy of   is acting as co-ordinator in sending people for the festival. The coordination committee has given permission to only 60 mechanised boats and not to any country boat.
 
 The mechanised boat people collects Rs 1, 300 per head. Since fishermen in and around Rameswaram are very poor, they are unable to mobilise the money. Poverty also restrains them from attending the festival. Earlier, the fishermen were going on country boats to attend the festival. 
 
 Last year, we had approached the court regarding use of country boats. The court directed the fishermen to give a fresh representation to commissioner of fisheries and directed the commissioner to consider our request. However, the fishermen abstained from going to Katchatheevu year after one of their counterparts   from Rameswaram was shot dead allegedly by the Sri Lankan navy.
 
 This year, the traditional fishermen requested the   district collector to allow fishermen to use country boats fitted with engines to go Katchatheevu by sending a representation on January 16, but the collector refused permission on January 29 on the ground of stability of the country boats.
 
 There is not much difference between mechanised and country boats fitted with engine (mechanised country boats). There is a roof in a mechanised boat while the other doesn’t. Rich people use mechanised boats and poor people use mechanised country boats. The mechanised country boats have registration certificates and insurance.
 
 Thus, it is necessary to set aside the collector’s order denying permission to use mechanised country boats and to direct the authorities to permit them to go to Katchatheevu.
 
 
