NAGPUR: In an unprecedented move in its history, the Nagpur University ( ) withdrew the PG   in Gandhian Thoughts awarded to decorated academician Dr   three decades ago. The decision was cleared in the Board of Examinations and Evaluation (BoEE) meeting on Monday.

 Mishra was found guilty of copying in his field report from RV Rao’s 1969 book by  , which had submitted its report in 1992. 
 
 The decision is likely to bring curtains down on the row going on since last year and resulting in Mishra accusing the NU vice-chancellor SP   of insulting his mother, returning the lifetime award and diploma.
 
 The official announcement was made by the vice-chancellor and Pro-VC Pramod Yeole in a hurriedly called press meet that prompted former senators to slam the top brass for “witch-hunt” and “misuse of power”. Registrar Puran Meshram and BoEE secretary Neeraj Khaty were conspicuous by their absence.
 
 Another important decision recommended in the Ratnaparkhi report was finalized by the BoEE. The panel had found that Mishra had submitted his field report two years after the final exam of the two-year course. Till date, thesis of postgraduate students are accepted by the NU even after the final exams. Now, such students would be marked absent if they fail to submit thesis by May 31. They will have to fill fresh forms as and when they submit the thesis.
 
 The VC also informed that action on recommendations of another report submitted by former pro-VC   in illegal appointment case involving current finance and accounts officer Raju Hiwase and former BCUD director DK Agrawal among five others would be initiated.
 
 Surprisingly, Kane has handed over the task to Yeole, whose previous appointments as assistant lecturer and principal were not done as per UGC and AICTE norms.
 
 At the press meet, Kane skirted serious queries regarding other reports and the NU’s stand on different plagiarism complaints received over the years. During the entire address, Kane reiterated what he has been saying for the last three months on the issue. At one point, he admitted that he was unaware of Mishra’s plagiarism case and came to know about it through a paper in November last year.
 
 When TOI confronted Kane with one of the irregularities reported by it two months ago that he “took note of Mishra case”, the VC referred the query to Yeole who too was clueless.
 
 On September 22, 2017, TOI had reported that four BSW students of Aniket College at Wardha were declared pass in winter exam against the rules which mandated repeating the year. 
 
 Case history
 
 In 1991, then academic council member   alleged that Mishra had used unfair means to complete his thesis in 1987
 
 In 1992, Ratnaparkhi Committee submitted its report which indicted Mishra
 
 On Oct 9, 1992, the then management council approved the Ratnaparkhi report. Mishra challenged it in civil court
 
 On Nov 24, 2013, the court rejected Mishra’s claim, upholding the Ratnaparkhi panel report
 
 In Nov 2017, report resurfaces and Kane makes clear he would implement it
 
 On Feb 26, the BoEE withdraws Mishra’s diploma after giving him four chances to defend himself
 
 
