Ludhiana: Dr  , vice-chancellor,   Agricultural University (PAU), on Thursday called upon the farmers to make balanced use of water, opt for joint marketing and mechanization, keep farm records, and focus on yield, income and profit.

 He was speaking at the annual function of  , which witnessed the participation of about 600 farmers from across Punjab.
 
 Saying that sowing of paddy in 13.5 lakh hectares area of Punjab could sustain agriculture, he urged the farmers to reduce at least 10% area under this water intensive crop. “Today, the farmer is in crisis,” he observed, while advising the participating farmers to give their feedback and share their experiences with the PAU experts for necessary solutions to their problems.
 
 Combating the agricultural challenges and developing/recommending the best technologies to the farmers have always been the top priorities of this university,” he added. Later, he distributed prizes to the farmers.
 
 N S Bains, director of research, while presenting the research highlights, said the university keeps devising its research programmes after receiving feedback from the farmers.
 
 J S Mahal, director of extension education, PAU, and director of executive committee of the club, underlined the need for strengthening research-extension-farmer linkages.
 
 Bal Mukand Sharma, additional managing director, Markfed, Chandigarh, spoke on the role of Markfed in the development of agriculture and apprised the farmers of various schemes being provided by Markfed.
 
 Baldev Singh, chief agriculture officer, promoted the adoption of subsidiary occupations for additional benefits while Dr Balwinder Singh, project director, Agricultural Technology Management Agency, Moga, gave tips for the conservation of natural resources. K Choudhry, an expert, delved on silage making.
 
 Coordinator Dr T S Riar, while referring to various activities of the club, said the club has completed 52 years of its establishment.
 
 N K Bhatia, manager, agricultural services, IFFCO, highlighted the role of   (IFFCO) in agriculture development.
 
 Earlier, Manpreet Singh Grewal, president of the club, said a total of 2,600 farmers and 500 farm women members of the club received trainings in various aspects of agriculture during the year. 
 
 
