PATNA: The   (EC) on Friday announced byelection to Araria parliamentary and Jehanabad and Bhabhua assembly seats in Bihar next month. It took the political temperature a notch high, as it brought out the confusion prevailing among the NDA constituents and also in the rival group comprising RJD and Congress.

 Jehanabad and Bhabhua assembly seats fell vacant after the death of sitting MLAs Mundrika Singh Yadav of RJD and Bhushan Pandey of BJP, respectively. The Araria parliamentary seat fell vacant after its MP and RJD stalwart Taslimuddin died in August last year.
 
 The byelections in Bihar will be held on March 11. The results will be declared on March 14. The filing of nomination papers will begin from February 20. Like the recent bypolls in Rajasthan, the Bihar byelections are being perceived to test the popular pulse.
 
 RJD president Lalu Prasad, serving jail term in Ranchi jail in fodder scam cases, raised the political mercury high. He announced from the Ranchi court premises that his party would contest all the three seats.
 
 On the face of it, it should not ruffle the feather of the Congress, as the final decision in its internal matters would be decided by the party’s high command, party sources said.
 
 However, former state Congress chief  , who along with like-minded Congress legislators, has been on the radar of the high command for his alleged proximity to the state CM and JD(U) national president Nitish Kumar, had earlier said the Congress should contest the Araria parliamentary seat.
 
 The scene in the NDA is more complicated. For, BJP candidate Pradip Kumar Singh had fared second in Araria in the 2014 parliamentary election, implying that neither the JD(U) and nor the Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) led by Union minister   can claim to contest the seat.
 
 But given the grapevine that Kushwaha might embrace Lalu in the long run, the confusion persists. “As on date, we are in the NDA. We are not even contemplating to contest the Araria seat,” said RLSP state secretary general Satyanand Prasad Dangi, adding: “Our claim is to the Jehanabad assembly seat is genuine because this seat was our share in the 2015 assembly elections and our candidate   had fared second.” Ostensibly, the RLSP would not like the JD(U) to eye for the seat.
 
 The JD(U) had contested the Bhabhua assembly seat under the seat-sharing arrangement among the now defunct ‘Grand Alliance’ partners. However, the confusion in the NDA arises from the fact that the JD(U) cannot lay claim on it, as it is with the NDA and the BJP’s   had won it. For obvious reasons, the JD(U) functionaries chose to remain tight-lipped on the matter on Friday. 
 
 
