Nagpur: The state’s anti-corruption bureau (ACB), on Tuesday, filed a second chargesheet in the irrigation scam case related to tenders awarded in Vidarbha region. The document covers a dozen individuals, including five government officials and seven persons from private contract firms.  The case is scheduled for a hearing before the special ACB court, which is presided over by the seventh district judge AC Raut, on Thursday. Six out of the seven charged from the private contractors’ side, which include two senior citizen women, have applied for bail.  TOI was the first to report about the anomalies in the tenders in December 2010. It is the fourth chargesheet following investigations carried out by ACB units in the entire state for tender granted during the last Congress-NCP regime. The first was filed on September 7, 2016 which named M/s FA Construction, another private firm, along with VIDC officials. The other two are related to projects under the Konkan Irrigation Development Corporation. The ACB began its investigation in March 2015 into 40 tenders awarded for the Gosikhurd dam project by the Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation (VIDC). Subsequently, an FIR was registered on March 2016 for which the chargesheet was filed on Tuesday.  The 4,457-page chargesheet has accused the contractors and VIDC officials of collusion for wrongfully floating tenders. It led to M/s R J Shah and D Thakker Construction — a joint venture formed by private firms — bag a Rs56.57 crore contract in the Gosikhurd project.  The work pertained to building of the tail branch canal of Mokhabardi lift irrigation scheme (LIS) which is one of the components of the dam. The chargesheet says that the rules were tweaked to accommodate the Shah-Thakker joint venture (JV).  In one of the documents, the wording ‘and’ was replaced by ‘or’ in the list criterion for the JV to qualify for the tender. “The change helped in accommodating the Shah-Thakker firm,” says the chargesheet. In the joint venture, M/s RJ Shah Co is run by the sister duo of Tejaswini and Kalindi Shah, both of whom are in their late 60s and now named in the chargesheet. In D Thakker Construction, the directors named in the FIR and chargesheet are the Thakker brothers — Vishal and Jigar, their father Pravin and directors Arun Kumar Gupta and Ramesh Kumar Soni. The latter held a power of attorney on behalf of the rest. According to the chargesheet, the tender was issued even before the technical approval was secured for the work. The investigations also indicated a cartelization as the earnest money deposit (EMD) of the three competing firms was also paid by the JV which eventually bagged the deal. The other two firms which bid for the projects were Srinivasa Constructions, which is run by Rama Rao — a TDP MLA from Telangana, and SN Thakker Co in which the Thakker family members are the promoters. “The cost of the project was increased without going through the laid-down procedure,” says the chargesheet. The papers related to the experience of the firm were also forged, the chargesheet said. It also claimed that the firm was a main contractor though it had been engaged as a sub-contractor.  The VIDC officials did not properly scrutinize the documents related to the prior experience, which is one of the key criterion for a contractor to bid for a tender. “The rules too were tweaked to favour the joint venture,” says the charge sheet.  The firm also concealed the fact that it was also executing another contract of Dagadparwa project in Akola district. To prevent a monopoly, there is a limit on projects to be granted to a single firm. According to district government pleader Nitin Telgote, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court has directed the ACB not to take coercive action against the Thakker family and Shah sisters for at least a month after the charge sheet is filed. This means, they cannot be arrested immediately.  The irrigation scam has been at the centre of political controversy though no bigwigs have been named in it so far. Despite veiled warnings by Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis on action against top opposition politicians, the latest FIR filed in December — the eighth in the state — covered only an employee of a private firm and Sanjay Kolhapurkar, a former OSD of Union surface transport minister Nitin Gadkari. Controversies over the irrigation projects led to former deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar quit for a brief period. For Fadnavis, cleansing the irrigation sector of corruption was one of his poll promises. The chappan (56) bhog of irrigation It was the Rs56 crore contract under Gosikhurd project now covered in the charge sheet which led to irrigation scam being bared. Two contractors were vying for the project. It was named ‘chhappan bhog’ which is a traditional delicacy known for its lavish spread of 56 type of sweets. The contract too was worth Rs56 crore.  A spat among the rivals led to bringing out of the alleged irregularities through a series of documents secured under right to information (RTI) act. “No payment has been made to the contractors as the case was registered before that,” said ACB sleuths.