PATNA: Deputy CM   on Wednesday launched Comprehensive Financial Management System (CFMS) for handling financial matters of all the state government departments, including budget preparation through   process. The TCS has developed the Rs130-crore system for the state government.

 The new system will gradually replace the old Comprehensive Treasury Management Information System (CTMIS), which was adopted by the state government in 2008. Modi said it would bring transparency in the system and take less time in any financial work.
 
 Giving a presentation of the scheme, additional secretary (finance) Ashwini Dattatraya Thakare said with CFMS, the entire budgetary system of state government would be shifted to   and the execution of work would become faster several times. “At present, letters related to budget preparation are sent to accountant general’s office manually, which at times get delayed. With CFMS, the official of the accountant general will get integrated with the finance department and every process will become online,” she said.
 
 Thakare said there are more than 12,000 drawing and disbursing officers (DDO), who have more than one bank account. With the CFMS implementation, the requirement would come down to around 8,000. “Then, every DDO will have to maintain only one bank account for  ,” Thakare said.
 
 She said all budget allocations and funds disbursal would be reflected in the system in real time and monitoring would become very easy. “Officials will know within seconds how much funds are allocated to them under which scheme and how much have been used,” she said, adding disbursal power of respective officer would be defined through the system.
 
 She said the system would have a master database of more than two lakh employees and four lakh pensioners for whom funds disbursal in future would become automated on the digital platform. “At present, as a pilot project, finance department’s employees are receiving salary automatically as CFMS’s server is integrated with Reserve Bank of India’s e-Kuber for funds disbursal. Later, the same will happen for other departments also,” she said and added the target is to implement CFMS in all 77 treasuries, 44 departments and 98 directorates of the state government by June this year.
 
 She said   would have the most advanced system in the country after West Bengal for managing all financial matters of the state government.
 
 
