PUNE: The government’s carrot and stick policy to get   notified has failed to cut ice with the doctors and chemists’ associations, who have raised the issue of violation of a patient’s privacy in the exercise.

 Under the government’s policy, private medical practitioners and chemists will get an incentive of Rs 500 for notifying a TB patient to the government. They may, however, land in jail if they fail to do so.
 
  
 “On one hand, law expects doctors to take consent for HIV testing and on the other, the government wants us to breach the confidentiality clause by notifying TB patients. Is it not contradictory?” asked senior orthopaedic surgeon Nitin Bhagli. 
 
 He said there are many questions that are yet to be answered. “Many times, patients move from one doctor to another for various reasons. In such cases, who should notify? If all the doctors treating the same patient report, will it not lead to duplication? Many HIV-infected patients also have TB and they don’t want their diagnosis to be known. So, what should be done in such cases?” Bhagli asked.
 
 “Threatening doctors of imprisonment is the latest trend of the government. Why don't they arrest people spitting or urinating on roads since that is the biggest source of communicable diseases?” Bhagli said.
 
 Even chemists’ associations have raised the breach of privacy issue, among many problems faced by them in notifying TB patients. “It will be unjust to penalize a chemist for not notifying TB patients. Some chemists have computerized data. So, it is easy for them to collate and compile data of TB drugs dispensed under schedule H1. However, many chemists keep manual data, making the reporting of the TB data difficult. Besides, it involves breach of confidentiality and many patients are averse to divulging personal details to chemists,”  , president of   and Druggists, said.
 
 Health activist and medical expert   said breach of confidentiality in such cases is a lame excuse.“It is not correct to hide behind patient’s right to confidentiality because this right is not absolute in case of notified communicable diseases with grave public health implications,” More said.
 
 Eye surgeon Sanjay Patil, vice-president of IMA, Pune branch, stressed on sensitizing doctors and chemists about notifying TB cases. “There is a need of a forum to discuss and to solve issues regarding this notification by involving all the stakeholders,”   said.
 
 
