NAGPUR: The civic body’s Rs 3.5 crore sterilization programme has finally started again, and this time without involvement of any private organization.

  ( ) has appointed three private doctors on contractual basis, who are carrying out Animal Birth Control (ABC) operations at its animal shelter in Bhandewadi.
 
 Started over a month ago, some 150 stray dogs have been sterilized till now. In the initial phase, the civic body is focusing on public places. NMC veterinary officer Dr Gajendra Mahalle said, “Right now, we are sterilizing strays at railway station, airport and other prominent places. Apart from this, areas witnessing dog bites and other menace due to dogs are a priority.”
 
 Dr Mayur Kale, one of the veterinary doctors appointed by NMC, said that both male and female dogs are being sterilized. “After carrying out the operation, we are keeping them under post-operative care for three days,” he said.
 
 In view of the capacity at the Bhandewadi ABC centre, five dogs are being operated at a time. However, to fast-track the process, NMC is constructing another centre at the same premises. “The construction work will be over in the coming 15 days. Once this centre is ready, a total of 25 dogs will be operated at a time,” said Mahalle. 
 
 Apart from this centre, animal activists feel that more centres should be set up all over the city. “The centres should be convenient for all animal lovers who want to bring dogs for sterilization. NMC should also create awareness about the programme,” said  , founder of the Save Speechless Organisation (SSO). Mire recently submitted a letter to NMC demanding more centres in different areas.
 
 On this, Mahalle said that zone-wise centres will be set up soon. “We are in the process of finalizing a place at Sonegaon and North Nagpur,” he added.
 
 Not just ABC operations, the appointed doctors are also responsible for treating sick and injured animals. “We are treating all animals, including birds, which are getting severely affected by the heatwave,” said Kale.
 
 The sterilization programme has started after much controversy and a prolonged gap. The estimated stray population of the city is around one lakh. Earlier, NMC had roped in private NGOs for the programme. However, following complaints of improper ABC operations, which allegedly lead to widespread infections and death of some strays, the corporation decided to carry out the task on its own. 
 
 In 2015, TOI had reported how despite spending huge amount of money, there was no decrease in the population of stray dogs. Animal activists hope that the sterilization process is implemented successfully this time.
 
 
