Anchor   does not seem to have the universe in her favour since the last two days. 

  First, a woman alleged in a video that the anchor had refused to take a selfie with her son and even broken their cell phone in the process. The resident of Tarnaka even lodged a police complaint against   for the same, as the incident took place on Monday near the actress' mother’s residence. 
 
  Anasuya had however rubbished the claims, insisting that she had done no such thing. She had previously clarified, “This is completely false. The lady is spreading lies. I had gone to visit my mother at her residence in Tarnaka. When I was coming out, the lady, along with the boy, were taking my video and approached me for a selfie. I was not in the frame of mind to oblige, so I refused. However, when they came closer, I was startled. I covered my face, told them to get lost and hurriedly got into my car and drove off. I don't remember any phone being broken.” 
 
  She has been repeating the same, asking netizens to understand her right to privacy and reinstating that she had not broken the phone. However, matters just seem to escalate with people taking it for granted that she had in fact broken the phone. When one such netizen tagged the Hyderabad City Police Twitter account, asking them to take action on the actress, the police account replied with, “Good afternoon sir, kindly share us full details.” (sic) However, Anasuya who was also tagged in this thread, couldn’t stop herself from replying, “Good to know the police is so prompt! But sir you should get into the details before I am being tagged #Respect” (sic) 
 
  Now, the ‘Rangasthalam’ and ‘Gayatri’ actress seems to have deleted all her social media accounts and gone off-grid. However, it’s not just Anasuya who’s facing flak in this situation. Even her co-anchor/friend   keeps getting tagged in posts when she has nothing to do with the situation at all! When a fan asked her not to be ‘rude like Anasuya’ she replied with, “Thankyou for the info and advise I appreciate it but every story has two versions to it n since u or me were not part of the situation we shud not be passing judgments off course advise is free.” (sic)
 
  She even requested fans to not drag her into the issue as she wasn’t even a part of it and kept urging that there would always be two sides to a story. She even humorously ‘thanked Anu’ for getting her ‘so much attention’ and took the opportunity to announce her new show. Phew!
 
