Madurai: The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) was on Tuesday firmly told to adhere to an earlier interim order of the Madurai bench of the Madras high court, which directed it to reduce the toll fare by 50% on the Kappalur toll stretch from Madurai to Virudhunagar till the road is repaired.  When the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by one Manimaran came up for further hearing before the division bench headed by justice M Sathyanarayanan, the petitioner’s counsel informed the court that the NHAI did not obey the court’s interim order and was collecting full amount from the vehicles.  Following it, the court gave this order and adjourned the case to April 16. According to the petitioner, the Kappalur toll gate is located between Virudhunagar and Madurai. The NHAI, which collects toll is not maintaining the road properly. The entire stretch of the road is damages. There are no proper signals/ indicators. There are many potholes and craters, due to which accidents take place. Regarding that, the petitioner filed many complaints with the project director of NHAI.  But, there was no action from them. Hence, collection of toll is unjustifiable on equity and law. Hence, it was necessary to close the toll plaza situated at Kappalur, the petitioner pointed out and also produced photographs in that regard. Expressing its anguish, the court said the road laid by the NHAI is supposed to be an all-weather road and though lakhs of rupees have been collected by way of toll for the purpose of maintenance, it appears that not even a fraction of amount has been spent at least to fill up potholes.  The NHAI project director side told the court that the maintenance of the stretch was awarded to concessionaire (Raima Toll Roads Private Limited) for nine years from 2013. But, it committed defaults. Hence, its rights were suspended. It also accepted that the condition of the road for the first 50km starting from Madurai is bad and needed repairs. The cost estimate for repairing work is Rs 83.45 crore. The overlay work is expected to complete by June 2018.  After hearing, the court said that the approved estimate cost for repair work appears to be very astronomical. If the NHAI has taken timely and proper action, there is no need to incur such a huge cost. Till the completion of repair work, road users have to bear with a lot of inconvenience and risk while using the said road. 