BHOPAL: It was a day of anxiety and endless wait at the state   headquarters as the core committee met for announcement of the next state unit president. Six months before the assembly polls, the entire BJP rank and file waited with bated breath till late Tuesday night for even the slightest hint to who would lead the organisation into Battleground 2018, but the suspense looks set to linger at least till Wednesday.

 Just hours before the meeting, CM   made his stand clear by announcing in public that he’d like   to stay on as state BJP chief. It left no doubt about the agenda for the meeting scheduled for the evening. At Bhikangaon in Khargone, the CM said, “State BJP chief   Singh Chauhan has expressed his desire to step down. He wants to work more for his Lok Sabha constituency. I have asked him to continue. But I will consider his request.” He repeated it at Palsud.
 
 Meanwhile, the atmosphere at the state BJP office was gripped with apprehension. The core group meeting, scheduled for 6pm, was postponed as leaders waited for Nandkumar, the CM, and BJP national organisational general secretary Ramlal to arrive.
 
 Nandkumar arrived at 7:35pm, exactly five minutes before CM Chouhan. Those who attended the meeting included Union minister for rural development and former state BJP president Narendra Singh Tomar, BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya — both said to be favourites for the post. Tomar, however, told the media that he would not accept the job. As soon as he arrived at the BJP office, Tomar said, “I have come to participate in the core group meeting.” Asked if he was willing to become state BJP president for a third time, he said, “No.”
 
 Vijayvargiya arrived around 6:15pm. Asked if he was among the contenders, he said, “The party has given me big responsibility as in-charge of Bengal and some more work in Karnataka. But if orders of the party are to even pick up a broom and sweep the floor of the BJP office, I will do it.”
 
 Former Union minister Vikram Verma, former CM Kailash Joshi, senior cabinet ministers Jayant Malaiya, Rajendra Shukla, MP Rakesh Singh, state BJP organisational general secretary Suhas Bhagat were present at the meeting. But conspicuous in their absence were BJP national vice-president Vinay Sahasrebuddhe and party national vice-president and Rajya Sabha MP Prabhat Jha. Jha was also state unit president until he was removed in December 2012, and Tomar brought back on the insistence of CM Chouhan. Union minister Thavar Chand Gehlot also did not attend the meeting.
 
 Minister for water resources  , who according to certain sections of BJP and media, is a front-runner in the race was also missing from the scene of action.
 
 Seating on the dais in the core group meeting told a certain story. From right to left were state organisational general secretary Suhas Bhagat, Tomar, Nandkumar, CM Chouhan (who is also a former state BJP president) and Vijayvargiya. Ramlal arrived from Delhi at 9:45pm and went straight into the closed-door meet.
 
 
