NAGPUR: Will it be the   this year, instead of the traditional winter outing for state legislature? There is some confusion yet, but top sources in the government averred it will be Nagpur though it was not officially announced on Wednesday at the end of the budget session despite much anticipation.

 As per the practice, presiding officers of both the houses while concluding an ongoing session, announce the date and venue of commencement of the next session. But on Wednesday, the Speaker of the Assembly as well as chairman of the Council just declared that July 4 will be the date of starting the Monsoon session. They stopped short of announcing the venue. 
 
 Sources in the government said a large number of legislators from Vidarbha region had urged the government to have Monsoon session in Nagpur as it was normally of three to four weeks’ duration while the Winter session for the last several years has been restricted to two weeks or ten sittings. To consider their demand, the government set up a three-member sub-committee headed by finance minister   with legislative affairs minister   and industries minister (Sena)   as members. A final decision may be taken on April 3 when the sub-committee meets for its conclusive sitting, said sources.
 
 The committee formed last week hardly managed to have one meeting and it decided to seek some more time to study pros and cons of the change of venue from Mumbai to Nagpur. The Opposition, however, is not convinced with the reasons cited by the government that a stretched Monsoon session would help them take up problems of Vidarbha seriously devoting it more time. 
 
 Another reason cited was need for urgent repairs to   of MLAs in Mumbai as buildings in it were in a dilapidated condition, said Naseem Arif Khan, a Congress MLA. He also claimed that at the business advisory committee meeting held on Wednesday a consensus could not be reached on the issue hence the formal announcement of the venue was not made by the presiding officers.
 
 The Opposition is suspicious about the move. Some feel July session in Nagpur could mean that farmers, who form the fulcrum of all public agitations and morchas during Nagpur session, would be too busy with Kharif operations that start in June end to join Opposition-sponsored marches. If it rains well, even other protesting groups would not venture out. They believe Nagpur session in July could also be a necessity as it could the last major one for the Devendra Fadnavis government if the state elections are held simultaneously with Lok Sabha elections early next year. 
 
 
