MADURAI:   chief minister Edappadi K   on Sunday justified bus fare hike citing various reasons including increasing diesel price, revised salary for the transport corporation employees and rising cost of the new buses. However, the government has reduced the fare hike to a possible extent due to the appeals from the public as well as opposition parties, he said.

 Palaniswami was in Madurai to take part in the ear piercing ceremony of cooperation minister Sellur K Raju’s grandchildren. Deputy chief minister   and a number of ministers and MLAs also took part in the grand function held at Pandikovil.
 
 Talking to reporters at the airport, the chief minister compared the bus fare in Tamil Nadu with that in other states and said, “It is still lesser.”
 
 The chief minister said when the AIADMK took over the government in 2011, the transport corporation was burdened with a debt to the tune of Rs 3392.15 crore, left behind by the DMK regime. Additionally, the DMK also had left behind a backlog of Rs 922.24 crore for retired employees and another Rs 1528.05 crore towards the serving employees. In the DMK rule, 112 properties belong to the corporation had been pledged, he said. As many as 8,500 bus had exceeded their life time, he added.
 
 He said that the diesel price had increased by Rs 24 per litre and the cost of new busses increased by 30% to 40% compared to that prevailed during DMK rule. Although the DMK left behind in difficult situation, Amma (former chief minister J Jayalalithaa) rule did not increase the fare in the six years. He said the recent salary revision has resulted in spending Rs 240.5 crore more every month.
 
 Replying to DMK working president M K Stalin’s recent remark that government was unkind, the chief minister said that the government was kind enough to settle a whopping Rs 922 crore backlog for the retired employees, left behind by the DMK rule.
 
 The transport corporation was incurring a loss of Rs 12 crore a day. While the fare hike was expected to cover around Rs 8 crore, the rest would be borne by the government, he said. He also said the state government had injected Rs 12, 059 crore to the transport corporation as loan and subsidy in the last six years. “Still the corporation’s debt stands at Rs 18, 012. There are over one lakh employees working and 1.4 crore passengers are being transported. The fare hike is to save the corporation,” he said. He added that the Center had cut the fund to Tamil Nadu to 31% from 41%, citing that it is a developed state. It resulted in a loss of Rs 6,200 crore.
 
 
