JAIPUR: Sawai   (SMS) converted its CT scan machine room into operation theatre to conduct its first CT guided radiofrequency ablation of a tumour located in the middle of the heel bone of a 17-year-old patient on Saturday.

 
 The patient was suffering from calcaneum   (knee bone tumour), which is quite rare among the tumours of bones. It is for the first time when SMS Hospital doctors used radiofrequency ablation with CT guidance and cementoplasty to remove a bone tumour. It was a multidisciplinary surgery which was conducted with the help of interventional radiologist Dr   and anasthesia specialist Dr  .
 
 The orthopaedic surgeons used CT machine to reach upto the tumour which was located in the middle of the knee bone. It was difficult to reach to the tumour to burn it using a radiofrequency probe. But, the doctors successfully used radiofrequency probe, which generate heat to burn the tumour inside the bone. The probe has a “coolant” which prevents other parts of the bone and tissues from being burnt.
 
 “Chondroblastoma is a tumour of a bone. Calcaneum chondroblastoma is a tumour in heel bone. It is condition which almost always affects children but it is quite rare and very few cases are reported in the world. It is for the first time our hospital has conducted such a surgery for chondroblatoma on CT scan machine table as we required CT guidance to reach upto the location of the tumour,” said Dr  , senior professor (orthopaedics) and medical superintendent, SMS Hospital.
 
 The patient is a Class XII student, a resident of Bikaner. He noticed some swelling in his leg and it was painful. The pain and swelling was progressive. “He thought that it might just be ankle sprain. But, two months, ago, he felt severe pain. It became difficult for him to walk. He consulted with a doctor in  , who suspected that something is wrong. He referred the case to us at SMS Hospital,” said Dr  , assistant professor, SMS Hospital, who conducted the surgery.
 
 At the hospital, the doctors conducted MRI and biopsy to diagnose chondroblastoma in his heel. “It was a CT guided biopsy that diagnosed condroblastoma.
 
 “The conventional method of surgery of the tumour is to cut portion of the heel to remove the tumour. Chondroblastoma grows on growth end of bones. These are the ends from where the bone is grown in children. In such conventional surgeries of tumour of bones there is always a risk of damaging growth end of the bone. If these ends are damaged, the bones growth will be affected and it will be grown in irregular way,” said Dr Harshwal.
 
 It was a minimal invasive surgery. Through a hole in the heel, the doctors inserted radiofrequency probe, which burnt the tumour. After burning the tumour, the doctors conducted cementoplasy, a process to fill the vacant space left by burnt tumour with a whitecolour paste, which solidifies inside the bone. It reduces pain of the patient.
 
