MUMBAI: A couple of dropped catches at crucial junctures, a blazing start followed by a sudden lull in the scoring pattern— it wasn’t a performance Mumbai Indians would have been proud of. But a score of 181 eventually proved too much for Kolkata Knight Riders to chase, as the defending champions walked away with yet another crucial win in the Indian Premier League at the Wankhede Stadium on Sunday. Kolkata could manage just 168-6, giving the hosts a win by 13 runs and two critical points.

 
 
 
 
 
 Kolkata skipper   called correctly at the toss and put the hosts in. Mumbai openers   (59) and Ewin Lewis
 
 (43) gave them a fantastic start. The duo scored at a healthy rate and by the time the powerplay overs had finished, the home side had put on 56 runs without losing a wicket. Both Yadav and Lewis complemented each other well and ensured neither was under any sort of pressure or discomfort.
 
 Yadav, who before coming into this match had three half centuries to his credit, looked in sublime form right from the outset. Lewis meanwhile, struggled a bit initially, but soon found his bearings.
 
 The two seamlessly laid a foundation for Mumbai Indians to set a massive target for the opposition. Just when things looked completely settled for Mumbai, Lewis holed out to Chris Lynn at short third man off the bowling of Andre Russell. Mumbai, at that stage were 91-1.
 
 Skipper Rohit Sharma was the next man out. In between, though, Yadav had reached his fourth half century and Mumbai had breached the 100-run barrier. Sharma was caught at deep midwicket by substitute fielder Rinku Singh off the bowling of Sunil Naraine. When the skipper departed, Mumbai were 106-2. Two wickets in quick succession pegged back Mumbai, who until then were cruising at over 10 runs an over.
 
 Their problems compounded further when the in-form Yadav edged a Russell delivery to   skipper Karthik. Haridik Pandya (35*), Krunal Pandya (14) and JP Duminy (13*) played their parts to ensure Mumbai reached a competitive total.
 
 Even before Kolkata could begin their chase, they were jolted by Naraine’s illness. The tried and tested opener, who bowled his quota of four overs during Mumbai’s innings wasn’t feeling too well and subsequently couldn’t open the innings for the visitors. In his absence, young and promising Shubman Gill opened the innings for KKR with Lynn. The Australian slammed a few boundaries before being caught at short fineleg by Jasprit Bumrah. He had made 17 by then.
 
 Gill, who showed some deft touches in his last couple of outings for KKR failed to impress. He was out caught at mid-off by Krunal off the bowling of brother Hardik. He made 7. Kolkata at that stage were 28-2. Things could have gotten worse for Kolkata had Mayank Markande not dropped Robin Uthappa at mid-on.
 
 
