JAIPUR: Expressing concern over the leakage of recommendations for the transfer of sub-inspectors, director general of police (DGP) O P   said on Saturday that corrective measures will be taken to prevent such major lapses.

 The list of recommended transfers of sub-inspectors reached the public domain and became a heavy embarrassment for the state police. The Opposition   too lambasted the government for political patronage of the police.
 
 The letter in question was an internal communication sent to superintendents of police (SPs) across the state asking for service records of policemen who had sought transfers. It contained a list of 145 policemen. The concerned clerk or officer, who made the list, had also included a column in the communication informing who recommended who for transfer.
 
 The police headquarters had to face the ire of the Opposition over the leak as those who sent recommendations included the chief minister’s office, MPs, MLAs and other people’s representatives.
 
 “We will take corrective measures. My men are on the job to find out how it took place. It is a clerical error,” said Galhotra while speaking to TOI.
 
 However, senior officers maintained that it was not a political issue as seen by the Congress party. “Be it any government, political leaders and public representatives express their ‘desire’ and make recommendations for postings of policemen. The only lapse this time is that it has come into the public domain. This should have been avoided,” said a senior officer of police headquarters on condition of anonymity.
 
 Sources further stated that the clerk concerned, who prepared the list, was a new employee and did the typed the whole letter. “It appears that the paper with various recommendations was also sent to him. He typed them out too and put it in our system. That’s how it came into the public domain,” an officer opined.
 
 Asked if this leakage would impact the transfers, a senior officer said, “It’s not that the police headquarters and SPs concerned give nod to every transfer and posting suggested by MPs, MLAs or other public representatives. As a matter of record and practice, we seek the service record of policemen from the district SP where the policemen are posted. If his record does not have any indiscipline charges or 16cc notices, he would get the new posting.”
 
 As for recommendations, four came from the chief minister’s office, two from the additional police commissioner’s office, two from the IG office, 10 from the SP office, six from the   office, seven from the MP office, six from ministers’ offices, 35 from the home department, two from the   office, 59 by concerned officers and one from a husband.
 
 
