SHIMLA: Facing growing public resentment over acute shortage of potable water in Shimla, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Monday constituted a high-level   under the chairmanship of chief secretary Vineet Chawdhry to monitor the situation. 

 Thakur has directed the chief secretary to personally monitor the water situation and also supervise the distribution of water. He told the officials concerned to check water losses due to leakage in the pipes and also plug all water connections used for construction purposes. He said that strict action would be taken against the erring officers who will show laxity towards their duties.
 
 The committee has been authorized to take all necessary steps, including requisitioning, hiring of tankers and other resources both from the government and private, to ensure proper supply of drinking water to the consumers in Shimla town.
 
 The chief minister also directed the officers of irrigation and public health department (IPH) and municipal corporation to make to ensure adequate supply of drinking water to residents of Shimla town. He said 17 water tankers, 15 utilities and four tippers had been pressed into service to supply water in Shimla town to ease the situation. In addition, three tankers from Sirmaur and three from Bilaspur had also been requisitioned for making available sufficient water to the people of the town, he added.
 
 Thakur directed the officers to evolve a foolproof mechanism for equal distribution of water through tankers so that people do not face inconvenience. He said wide publicity regarding supply of water through tankers should be ensured so that people residing in particular area could get information about these tankers. 
 
 After the meeting, Chawdhry alongwith senior officers of IPH department and civic body rushed to the field to personally monitor the situation at the grass root level.
 
 Additional chief secretary (urban development), deputy commissioner Shimla, special secretary (revenue), commissioner,  , engineer-in-chief (PWD), engineer-in-chief and chief engineer (IPH) will be its members while secretary (IPH) would be its member secretary and convener.
 
 
