Mangaluru: Thousands of crores are at stake with the state government listing 440 housing projects under investigation for violating RERA norms but Sunil Kumar P, the secretary for real estate regulation and development, says there is no reason for homebuyers to panic, “for now”. 

 He said the list of “projects under investigation” had been made public to warn errant builders to fall in line. Kumar said it was necessary to make the names public to protect the buyers from fraudulent companies and also maintain transparency. The original list, made public on January 5, had 780 names, which had come down to 440 in the updated list of January 12.
 
 CREDAI, the association of developers, has opposed the move, saying the government had caused severe damage to the image of the builders across the state and their projects.
 
 “These 440 projects are under investigation for not complying with RERA. We gathered the names of these projects through websites and newspapers. We had to make their names public as they did not reply to our notice. Currently, we aren’t aware of what these developers are doing with the money from the buyers as they have not registered with us. So, the only way to make them comply is to pick up their names randomly from all possible sources and make them public. If builders do not reply, we will consider such projects suspicious. However, it doesn’t mean that they are on the wrong side,” Kumar said.
 
 Following the list of 780 names being made public, he said, there was a long queue of developers outside the RERA office to clear their names.
 
 “Every developer has to comply with and accept RERA, which is brought out in the best interests of customers. Now, the developer has only two choices. When the customers keep pestering the developers to ensure that the name of their building is kept off the list, the developer will invariably plug the loopholes and comply with RERA. If the developers don’t, a heavy penalty will be levied on them. There is a provision to even jail the defaulters,” Kumar said.
 
 “We may remove some names and add some in the future. I have opened many channels to gather information on such builders from the urban local bodies, people and journalists on our web portal. We will cross-check the names with our database, serve notice to defaulters and put them on the ‘under investigation’ list,” he said.
 
 
