ALLAHABAD: The CBI, which has submitted a special leave petition (SLP) in the   challenging the acquittal of Rajesh and Nupur   in the   murder case, had only last week received a detailed 20-page opinion from its senior empanelled lawyer Anurag Khanna, who had been representing the agency in the Allahabad high court in the high profile case.

 The opinion deals with grounds such as absence of outsider, conduct of the couple derived from the statements of witnesses who met the Talwars on 16 May, 2008 and inconsistent sound simulation test findings.
 
 According to Khanna’s opinion, “the Allahabad high court” had wrongly supposed, in its acquittal order on October 12, 2017, that it was incumbent on the CBI to establish that the accused were awake”.
 
 “No outsider had come into the house between 10 pm and 6 am, nor there was any forced entry. The CBI, has succeeded to prove this and also through the testimony of Umesh, the driver who saw the two deseased alive with two accused (Rajesh and Nupur Talwar) at 10 pm on 15th May 2008 and the testimony of Bharti Mandal, who was the first to reach the house at 6 am and found the house to be locked from inside” the opinion has said.
 
 The opinion has rejected the theory that the couple were asleep during the murders, saying their statements are recorded under CrPc section 313, which does not have any evidentiary value.
 
 “The court could have accepted the explanation given by the accused only if they had placed some evidence on record to prove they were sleeping by either bringing any oral or documentary piece of evidence on record. The Talwars failed to do so, hence the court erred in accepting their explanation of sleeping the entire night. Moreover, the CBI has placed multiple evidence on record to prove that the accused were not sleeping on the night the murders took place.
 
 The opinion has also sought to counter the sound simulation test findings, according to which “if someone was sleeping in the Talwars’ bedroom with air conditioners on, then it would not be possible for that person to have heard the sounds of moving foot steps”.
 
 “The test suggested that a person in the Talwars’ bedroom would hear the noise of a fork falling on the ground, but would not hear anything if he was in deep sleep. The test fails to take into the account the magnitude of the noise that would have come on the night when the act of assaulting the victim on her head by a blunt weapon was being performed,” the opinion has said.
 
 “The high court erred by not giving due regard due to the fact that Aarushi’s room was right next to the room of her parents, with a wooden panel dividing the two rooms. This would have made the existence of the proposition of sleeping the entire night rather impossible to occur.
 
 
