BHUBANESWAR: Olympian   on Wednesday criticised the state government for not providing her with a residential plot in the state capital as was promised two years back. In May 2016, the state sports and youth affairs department had recommended the names of five sportspersons to the general administration department (custodian of government land in Bhubaneswar) to be allotted residential plots in the city. 

 Besides Dutee, the names of Purnima Hembram, Jauna Murmu, Amiya Kumar Mallick and Srabani Nanda were recommended. On Wednesday, Dutee, in a   post, wrote, "Despite two years after the government promised to provide a piece of land to Olympians, I am yet to get it. How long will we wait like this?"
 
 Speaking from Hyderabad, Dutee said she and other athletes approached the sports minister several times on the department's promise for residential plot.
 
 "I only got assurances every time I met the sports minister. When I contacted the sports department officials, they asked me to meet the chief minister. If I have to run from pillar to post to get a piece of land as promised by the government itself, how can I concentrate on my game and practice?" Dutee asked.
 
 The 22-year old athlete, who represented the country in the 100 metres in  , asked why the government had to make the promise when it could not keep it?
 
 Jauna, who participated in the recent Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast, Australia, said it was humiliating when sportspersons are treated like this.
 
 "The state government's effort in improving sports infrastructure is praiseworthy. But it should also take care of sportspersons who have excelled in various fields and brought laurels to the state and country. We should not face administrative hurdles," Jauna, who is in New Delhi for training, said. The other three athletes could not be reached for their comments.
 
 When contacted, sports minister   said the sports department has already recommended the names of the sportspersons. "I will certainly look into it and try and expedite the process," he said.
 
