LUDHIANA: Deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal on Tuesday directed the officials to make elaborate arrangements for celebrating Republic Day with patriotic fervor and gaiety in the district on January 26 where   minister Manpreet Singh Badal will be chief guest and will unfurl the national flag.

 Presiding over a meeting to review the arrangements of Republic Day at Bachat Bhawan, the deputy commissioner said to mark the celebrations of Republic Day, the district-level function will be held at Guru Nanak Stadium. He also said that various contingents of Punjab Police and NCC would participate in the march past in the function.
 
 Agarwal said, “A committee has been formed to decide the cultural items which will be performed by the students of various schools and colleges of the district. Requisite arrangements would be made for traffic diversion, parking of vehicles, security arrangements and other facilities during Republic Day function.”
 
 The deputy commissioner asked every officer to make the sure smooth conduct of affairs during the function. He also directed the Ludhiana municipal corporation to ensure proper cleanliness around the venue of the function.
 
 He also asked the district mandi officer to ensure availability of drinking water in the mega event. Further, he asked health department to depute medical teams along with medicines and permanent Ambulance to facilitate the people during the event. The DC also asked the PSPCL to ensure uninterrupted power during the Republic Day celebrations.
 
 Additional deputy commissioner (development) Surabhi Malik, additional deputy commissioner (G) Iqbal Singh Sandhu, additional MC commissioner Dr  , assistant commissioner (G)   Malhi, sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) Damanjeet Singh, Amarjeet Singh Bains, secretary Regional Transport Authority Lovejeet Kaur Kalsi, GLADA estate officer Navraj Singh Brar, deputy director (local government) Shiv Kumar, Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP)   and others were present during the meeting.
 
 
