BENGALURU: A day after a Hyderabad court acquitted all the accused in the   blast case,   national president   has asked his poll-bound party workers to make the   party's failed narrative of saffron terror a poll issue in  .

 
 Shah's directive to booth leaders came at a meeting of party workers that he addressed here on Wednesday.
 
 "Yesterday's judgement in the Mecca Masjid blast proves that terrorism has no colour. This is the same case which AICC president Rahul Gandhi used as an example and said there was saffron terror in the nation," Shah said.
 
 "When the blast happened, and Hindu terror was spoken about, we remained quiet as the case was being heard in court. But now the case is over and the court has said the case was completely fake and fabricated. Police caught several of our party workers. But now it has been proved that they were not involved and the real culprits continue to be free," he said.
 
 "On December 16, 2010, Rahul Gandhi spoke of saffron terror with the American ambassador and, subsequently, P Chidambaram in 2012 and Sushil Kumar Shinde and Salman Khurshid in 2013 said the same thing." Shah claimed even Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah had spoken about saffron terror on January 10 this year.
 
 "Congress has committed the sin of attaching the great Hindu civilisation with terrorism. I ask a simple question to Rahul and Congress. Will they apologise to the nation for defaming this pious religion or should the people of Karnataka force them to apologise (by throwing them out of power)," he said.
 
 Shah directed party workers to go door to door with the party's development plank and publicise the good work done by Prime Minister  , former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee and BJP state president B S Yeddyurappa. "But I would also appeal to the workers to take this issue of so-called Hindu or saffron terror and tell people as to how the Congress was fabricating cases and putting innocent people in jail," he said.
 
 
 
 
 Shah later held a roadshow in the small town of Hoskote, 40 km from Bengaluru city. At the end of the 90-minute roadshow, Shah posed five rhetorical questions to party workers. "All of you should reach out to 50 people via phone and ask them to vote for BJP. Will you ask them to vote? Will you throw out the Congress from Karnataka? Will you strengthen the arms of PM Modi? Will you make Yeddyurappa the next CM? Will you ensure the victory of Hoskote candidate Sharath (Bacchegowda)? Then shout with me, Bharat Mata ki Jai..." he said.
 
