MUMBAI: His run-ins with Indian cricket notwithstanding, former International Cricket Council (ICC) match referee Mike Proctor happens to be a huge admirer of Indian cricketers from the previous decade. And right at the top of the chart, from all the cricket he’s witnessed in a long career, stands Sachin Tendulkar’s 241 not out in Sydney scored more than 14 years ago. “That was extremely special. To not play a single shot through the covers for close to around 200 runs has to be special. Fabulous, fabulous effort,” remembers Proctor.

 
 ALSO READ: 
 
 The South African will be present at the Wanderers Stadium on Wednesday, the first day of the third Test between India and South Africa. There’s no Tendulkar representing India any more, nor any comparisons to be made with one of the greatest batsman this game has seen, but Proctor is keen to see if the current Indian batsmen in South Africa have it in them to show any degree of discipline and resilience whatsoever and learn from the former great.
 
 ALSO READ: 
 
 
 That kind of discipline alone, he believes, can placate Indian nerves when playing cricket overseas.
 
 Discipline. That’s the word Tendulkar had used in an interview with TOI before the start of this series when asked what would be the key to India tackling the new ball overseas. Rabada, Philander, Ngidi and Morkel aside, it is discipline, rather the lack of it, that has got India’s goat this series. The urge to play every ball moving away from the body on occasions when leaving it alone and staying around has been more critical.
 
  
  
 In that, yet again, lies the key to India’s fortunes if they aim at seeking any consolation whatsoever from the last Test match of this series. Between  ,   and  , India’s three regular openers have 113 Test matches between them. In December, 2013, it was in South Africa that Vijay and Dhawan had opened in the first Test match at the Wanderers, marking the beginning of a change in India’s opening pair that would go on to become a regular feature. With Rahul coming into contention later, the responsibility of opening the innings for India has been theirs for close to five years now.
 
 It is not the inability to score runs here in South Africa that have brought these three batsmen under the scanner. Handling the SA pace attack in their home conditions can get tough for any team touring here, current form notwithstanding. It is the manner of the dismissals that has been painful to India’s prospects here.
 
 It is clear already that no captain or coach can help a bunch of cricketers bent on showing no degree of application whatsoever. The Johannesburg Test match leaves the Indian team management with no choice whatsoever but to help serve the openers a stark reminder.
 
 Dhawan’s pull off Steyn, Vijay’s urge to cut and slash, Rahul’s unsettled feet have meant that India’s No. 3 and No. 4 have been left exposed to the new ball with the pressure of having to build an innings and score at the same time and Kohli’s 153 in Centurion aside, it’s only meant more trouble for the visitors.
 
 The openers have clearly failed to do away with the white-ball syndrome and adapt to the red-ball philosophies of Test match cricket and that hasn’t helped to any degree. Vijay, Rahul and Dhawan – all three openers spent enough time at the nets going through a gruelling session on Monday morning here.
 
 A choice between walking in with Rahul and Vijay or Rahul and Dhawan is likely be taken on the eve of the game.
 
 
