Kolkata: Charu   and a large part of south Kolkata around it may be on the cusp of a huge change, with the   now assessing for approval a mixed development proposal for the century-old market.

 A nod from the KMC’s building department will not only transform the market — set up in the early 20th century by nat-ionalist Charu Chandra Chattopadhyay — but also its neighbourhood, much like big-projects elsewhere in the city have changed their surrounding areas.
 
 Similar big-ticket projects that have changed entire zones include South City (which has transformed Prince Anwar Road from a belt overrun by slumlords to a genteel neighbourhood), Diamond City South (Karunamoyee in Tollygunge), Diamond City North (Nagerbazar), Genexx Valley (Joka) and, much more recently, Urbana (in Madurdaha behind Ruby Hospital).
 
 The market, set up on a plot larger than a football field, is located between   police station in the north and   in the south and meets the daily requirement of provisions, including vegetables, fish and meat, of a large population staying between the Rashbehari crossing to Tollygunge.
 
 The KMC’s building department hopes to earn at least Rs 10 crore in sanction fee if the project — the result of Chattopadhyay’s heirs entering into a joint venture with the Muskan group — gets its nod. To be developed over three-and-a-half years beginning this July, the project will rehabilitate a section of shops, besides creating additional high-street retail space and premium condominium towers.
 
 “The agreement was inked five years go. Of the 400 shops that were there, we are rehabilitating 150 and have entered into a settlement with the remaining 250. The market will be housed on 20,000 square feet of space on the ground floor. In addition, there will be 30,000 square feet retail spread over the ground and first floors. The second floor will house a 5,000-square-foot banquet. Above will be 115 apartments in conjoined tower blocks that range from nine stories to 22 stories,” said Amardeep Bhalotia, one of the three partners of the Muskan group developing the Rs 350-crore project. The total built up area will be around 3 lakh sq ft.
 
 Ayan Mukherjee, another partner in the group that has steel and mining among other business verticals, said this was the first foray into a real estate project of this scale.
 
 “The redevelopment of Charu Market is an ambitious project that will see high-street retail and 22-storied condominiums replace a tiled-roof, ramshackle market spread over 88 cottahs. If the project is executed properly, it will lift the profile of the entire area and raise estate value,” N K Realtors vice-president Biplab Kumar said.
 
 The project architect is Virendra Kumar Chadha, whose other projects in the city include Park Plaza and Unimark Solitaire.
 
 The 30,000-square-foot basement will have space to park 213 cars. The KMC building department is pushing for adequate parking within the complex to prevent encroachment on the road.
 
 
