NEW DELHI: The   Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains (Amendment) Bill was passed by the   on Tuesday, lifting the ban on government and infrastructure projects within a 100-metre buffer zone around protected monuments. But this is unlikely to provide relief to residents who own properties within such controlled zones. This is because while the amendment now permits construction of public infrastructure in the hitherto prohibited radius, the culture ministry clarified on Wednesday that no private projects will be allowed.

 A large of number of monuments is located in densely populated residential areas such as Green Park, Hauz Khas, South Extension, Nizamuddin, Greater Kailash and Saket. Since the lifting of the ban does not relate to private constructions, the problems confronting residents in repairing homes, building additional floors or carrying out alterations will persist. Such activities will continue to require the permission of the National Monuments Authority.
 
 “I have been pursing this problem with the Archaeological Survey of India for two years now. My family is growing and we need to build a second floor, but ASI dismisses it as not permissible,” complained Kanishk Gupta, who owns a house close to the Hauz Khas monuments.
 
 Many residents argued that allowing big government development posed a bigger threat to monuments than private projects. Heritage experts agreed that private work should also have been allowed if the prohibition was being lifted for official projects. “If you allow government work, why not allow a few citizens to carry out a few constructions?” mused an expert.
 
 “South Extension was established in 1959, way before anyone could have foreseen prohibitory rules about heritage,” reasoned Manjit Singh Chugh, executive member, South Extension Residents’ Welfare Association. “Today, over 60% of our colony falls under the controlled zone since there are protected monuments here. Many houses are in poor shape and have even been declared dangerous, but the owners cannot repair them.” Claiming these rules are a harassment for such residents, Chugh said the RWA would go to court for a public interest litigation soon. 
 
 Other residents insisted the strict rules were unfair and the government itself did little to protect monuments. “I live near Neeli Masjid,” said Major Rajnish Panwar (retd), a resident of Hauz Khas, “and have been watching it being encroached upon for years with no action from the authorities. The government is punishing law abiding citizens who are unfortunate to own properties in the vicinity of a centrally protected monument, but turns a blind eye to illegally occupation of the monuments. If you want to protect national heritage, at least do your duty properly.” 
 
 
