GURUGRAM: Allotment of alternative plots to those whose land is being acquired for the   has come under the scanner for alleged irregularities, a new twist that has the potential to pose a fresh hurdle to the project that is running several years behind schedule.

 Preliminary investigation suggests that at least four GPA (general power of attorney) holders, whose properties were coming in the way of the expressway’s alignment, have been given alternative plots in Sector 110A by  , in violation of the government’s rehabilitation policy. According to rules, alternative plots were supposed to be given to only those who had registry.
 
 Sources said an investigation was under way, even as highways minister Nitin Gadkari recently claimed that most of the houses hindering the expressway would be removed soon and   would begin work on the project in a month or so.
 
 Officials said the “irregularity” was recently brought to the notice of Huda administrator Chander Shekhar Khare, who ordered an investigation and asked officials to cancel allotments if the irregularities were confirmed. 
 
 “According to the preliminary investigation, four people somehow managed to get their properties registered after the notification for land acquisition for the expressway project was issued (in 2004). Later, they were given alternative plots along with other residents of New Palam Vihar. This is illegal and we are investigating how it was done,” said a senior Huda official. “Action will be taken against those involved in the irregularities.”
 
 The authorities had classified the properties — those that were coming in the way of the expressway in New Palam Vihar and Kherki Daula — into three categories, namely open plots, houses with registry and houses with GPA and SPA (special power of attorney). While owners of open plots were given compensation, those with houses having registry got alternative plots in sectors 110A and 37C as well as compensation for building new houses.
 
 Around 568 property owners from New Palam Vihar and Kherki Daula had applied for alternative plots, of which 223 were found to be eligible under the rehabilitation policy. Huda has already given allotment letters to 148 of the 223 eligible oustees. However, around 75 houses of GPA and SPA holders are still coming in the way of Dwarka Expressway. A case related to the GPA and SPA holders is pending in the Punjab and Haryana high court that is expected to hearing the matter again on April 26.
 
 Huda sources said the alleged irregularities in allotment of alternative plots might complicate the matter further.
 
 Rajeev Singh, a GPA holder, said   was developed in 1992. “People who bought houses in the initial years had managed to get their properties registered. Later, the government had stopped doing registry and people bought properties with GPA and SPA. The land acquisition for the expressway started in 2004 and as per rules, no registry can be done for plots to be acquired for the expressway project,” Singh said.
 
 
