JAIPUR: A   is looming large as the thermal power stations in the state are facing acute coal shortage. Some units are in ‘critical’ condition and others are being described as ‘super critical’ as coal stock of has come down drastically.

 Power consumption is on the rise as heat wave conditions are prevailing in major parts of the state.
 
 R G Gupta, managing director of  , said, the power consumption in the state has reached 1,800 lakh units per day which is equal to the consumption last year despite a sharp reduction in the distribution loss by 5.5%. This means power consumption is on the rise.
 
 He said power per unit at the energy exchange has already reached Rs 5 per unit even before the peak summer months and if the coal situation is not improved it would seriously impair power supply in the coming days.
 
 S S Meena, director (technical),  , said, “one unit of the 110 MW capacity Kota thermal power station has been shut down. The condition in Kota and Chhabra thermal station is super critical with just a couple of days of thermal grade coal stock available.”
 
 Even in Surajgarh coal stock for just five days is left. If replenishment is not made urgently the situation would be out of control, he said. On an average, companies are supposed to have a critical stock of 21 days. 
 
 “Only in Jhalawar the situation is under control as the power plants depend on captive coal mines in the state while for the other plants Coal India is the supplier. Temporary shortage of coal is attributed to   achieving its targeted production for the financial year 2017-18 and production could be resumed only in the next year.
 
 The coal situation is expected to improve from April first week, Meena said.
 
 In land-locked desert states power demand is mainly met by coal-based thermal power plants. Kota super thermal power plants have a total capacity to produce 1,240 MW power while ranking among the best thermal power plants in India, the six units of Suratgarh Super Thermal power plant with a total installed capacity of 1,500 MW cater to major demand for power in the state.
 
 
