GAYA: Following the appointment of a new registrar and financial adviser, a search has begun for other key positions including the controller of exams, inspector of colleges and director, distance education. The incumbents of these posts—  , Anjum Ashrafi and Ramayan Prasad—will be repatriated to their parent institutions, now falling under  .

 Of the three positions, the most important one is that of controller of exams. Besides integrity, the occupant of the post needs to be equipped with tact and efficiency. The examination department of the university, in recent years, on account of series of degree scandals and questionable financial transactions, has been in the news mostly for wrong reasons.
 
 Police from states like Andhra Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana etc are investigating the cases in which residents of these states have got government jobs on the basis of   degree, ostensibly acquired in a fraudulent manner. Nearly a dozen senior functionaries of the university including three former VCs and an equal number of former examination controllers have been chargesheeted in exam-related cases. A former controller of exams PK   had mysteriously disappeared.
 
 According to sources, Bimal Prasad Singh, the present controller of exams, enjoys the confidence of the vice-chancellor. But Singh cannot continue for long as he is from AN College, Patna, now part of Pataliputra University.
 
 To add to the VC's problems with regard to availability of suitable candidates for key positions, his choices are limited. Eighteen of the 108 sanctioned post of post graduate teachers are vacant. Of the working 90 teachers, several of them will have to move to Patna under the new arrangement. Several teachers who could have been considered for these positions are currently facing vigilance inquiry and as such they cannot be deputed in key positions.
 
 The option to depute teachers from colleges, is also not there. The colleges, in any case face acute faculty shortage and as such there are virtually few teachers who can be spared for deputation at the university headquarters. Gaya College, Gaya, the most important college, post bifurcation is doing with a very limited faculty. Nearly 60% of the 158 post of teachers in the college is vacant.
 
 Asked about the likely incumbents to these positions, MU VC   said, “He will cross the bridge when it comes. As of now, these posts are not vacant, apparently keeping his cards close to the chest.”
 
 
