JAIPUR: The   busted a major inter-state racket and arrested 94 candidates, all hailing from  , for cheating during postman and mail guard recruitment exams held across multiple centres of the city on Sunday.

 The candidates were caught with range of Bluetooth, spy and calling card devices which will be sent to FSL. Many of the candidates had hidden small Bluetooth earpiece devises deep into their ears. The police said that they will take help of the doctors to remove the devises from the ears of the accused.
 
  
  
  
 
 The matter came to light when a 20-year-old boy from Haryana was caught when invigilators found him murmuring and raising his left arm near his face. When the invigilators asked the suspected candidate to stand up, he tried to flee from the classroom. However, he was overpowered by guards and other invigilators.
 
 “The teachers frisked him and found a mobile phone hidden in his undergarments, it was attached to an earphone lead which was stitched under his shirt,” said Guru Bhupendra Singh, SHO, Jhotwara police station.
 
 The invigilators searched other candidates present in the room and found 16 of them cheating. They were handed over to the Jhotwara police station. All 16 had come from Haryana to write the test.
 
 At a different centre, invigilators found candidates were sitting in a suspicious posture while their OMR sheets were still blank. “One hour into the examination and many of these candidates had not even touched their answer sheets. We frisked them multiple times and found wires and mobile phones hidden in undergarments,” said Raghuveer Singh, teacher of a government school in Adarsh Nagar.
 
 A few minutes later, a vigilance squad of post department swung into action and raided as many four examination centers under the limits of Mahesh Nagar and Shyam Nagar police stations and caught 53 candidates for cheating.
 
 “The Mahesh Nagar police picked 35 boys and three girls from a centre, while Mahesh Nagar police caught 15 candidates. An FIR has been filed against them under multiple sections of the IPC, including 420 (cheating) and 120-B(Criminal conspiracy),” said additional deputy commissioner of police (South), Manoj Choudhary.
 
 According to investigators, the primary investigation hints at the involvement of a major gang based somewhere in Haryana as all candidates hailed from Jind, Hisar and Bhiwani districts. “The candidates claimed that they had paid Rs 1 lakh to clear the test. Many of the Bluetooth devices, headphones, and mobile phones look identical, which means that one person had brought all gadgets and distributed it among others,” an official informed TOI.
 
 According to Malviya Nagar ACP, Kavendra Singh Sagar, the accused were found using sophisticated devises to cheat in tests. “We have arrested 14 students from a centre located in Bajaj Nagar and 11 other candidates from Malviya nagar,” he said.
 
 ACP Sagar said that a portable GSM bug devise was seized from a candidate and it will be handed over to the FSL for further investigation. “We have collected all term samples and it will be sent to the FSL to understand what it is,” he said. The police informe
 
 Meanwhile, the sources informed TOI that the racket was operated by some cheating mafia.
 
 
