In most of Mumbai you might feel fairly sure about the ground beneath your feet. At home you or your housing society controls it; if outside then the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) probably does.

 In the lanes of Janki Kutir, the quiet Juhu neighbourhood best known for being home to Prithvi Theatre, you have no such assurance. When you turn off the congested Juhu Church Road and enter the enclave’s gate you are on a no man’s land of sorts. The BMC disavows it and the original owner has, literally, little interest left.
 
 At a little over seven acres, Janki Kutir is larger than its winding, peaceful lanes let on. There are around 700 people living in 19 apartment blocks, 10 bungalow plots, and, rather unusually for Mumbai, two sets of row houses. It all seems well maintained by the Janki Kutir Residents Welfare Association (JKRWA), whose signs dot the walls of the enclave, but this is where the peculiarity starts.
 
 The association has no legal status and the common facilities it manages, like the tarred roads, the streetlights and the pipes underground, are no one’s responsibility. Yet everything works—because residents want it to.
 
 The entrance gate to the enclave, which is maintained by the residents welfare association; a mix of row houses, apartment blocks, and bungalows cover the seven-acre neighbourhood 
  
 
 
 
 Janki Kutir’s odd status stems from its particular history, the wider history of Juhu and the reality of a city where piecemeal development has not affected desirability. “I get calls all the time from people who say they really want a flat in Janki Kutir,” says Jilesh Babla, secretary of JKRWA.
 
 The enclave has its share of wealthy residents, and this may be on the rise, but most are still middle-class professionals, some with links to theatre and film. A few inhabit dangerously crumbling flats—relics of the 1970s cement scandals—that they can’t afford to leave. But those with children value the place fiercely. “You can still let your kids play and ride their bikes outside the building safely,” says Merle Almeida, a communications professional. “In how many other places in Mumbai is that still possible?”
 
 Then there is Juhu beach, accessed from a private gate.
 
 The beach is why Janki Kutir exists. “Many industrialists in Bombay bought land along Juhu beach for weekend retreats,” explains Rajesh Shah, chairman and MD of Mukand Iron & Steel, who is president of JKRWA. “This belonged to the Bajaj family and was named after Janki Devi, Jamnalal Bajaj’s wife.” His family was close to Bajaj’s and he recalls coming here as a child on weekends. “It always seemed like a great place to live.”
 
 Juhu was Bombay’s balmy beach suburb. Mahatma Gandhi convalesced here after an appendicitis operation in 1924, staying with Shanti Kumar Morarjee, chairman of Scindia Steam Navigation. “Mr. Andrews and I take a walk along the beautiful sandy beach in Juhu for about half an hour. I fancy that I shall gain strength day by day,” he wrote to the wife of his British surgeon.
 
 For businessmen, a Juhu beach house was an executive privilege. British banker Jeremy Tait, in his memoir ‘The Obedient Banker’, describes a Juhu beach party that was such a success that nine months later there was a sudden spate of births among the couples who attended.
 
 British soldiers during World War II delighted in Juhu. “It’s a paradise perched on the edge of the beach,” recalled one of them in ‘A Corporal’s War’, Pauline Hayton’s memoir of her father. One bungalow in Janki Kutir was used by the British Overseas Air Corporation as a club house for pilots and air-hostesses taking a break between their long flights.
 
 But the community that would really influence Janki Kutir was Bollywood. In the 1950s, actors started renting the shacks that dotted the property as weekend refuges. Shanoo Mehra was born 58 years ago in Janki Kutir after his father, the actor Jankidas, moved to a plot close to the gate. He recalls Meena Kumari’s Mercedes sweeping in and knocking over the stones in the game of seven tiles that the kids were always playing. “But when   came on weekends to see his father Prithviraj, he would always stop and play with us.”
 
 Lyricist Kaifi Azmi and directors Ram Mukherjee and Ravi Tandon all lived here, giving their actress daughters Shabana, Rani and Raveena childhoods in Janki Kutir. Azmi’s bungalow is now one of the last to retain the original style. And so many struggling actors have spent their time hanging out at Prithvi Theatre that Janki Kutir almost counts as their second home.
 
 Anthropologist Kirin Narayan, in her memoir ‘My Family and Other Saints’, recalls the laid-back life of growing up here in the 1970s: “Set into our porches were squares of earth from which coconut trees rose up, through the roof…. On weekends, parties swelled out of the divans in the living room into butterfly chairs or cane modas under the pipal tree in the garden. There newspaper editors, musicians, physicists, documentary filmmakers, and other Indians from downtown Bombay mixed easily with the Westerners associated with universities, news agencies, consulates and the  .”
 
 In the 1960s the Bajaj family started selling off Janki Kutir. Tenants who could afford it bought their homes, but the bulk of the estate was acquired bit by bit by one builder, M L Gupta of Vikas Builders. Each apartment block and set of row houses was developed piecemeal as a separate entity with its own housing society.
 
 A small area remained with the Bajajs who, unsurprisingly, had little interest in this patchy possession. Y R Arora, a former president of JKRWA, recalls that when he moved there in the 1980s, there was still only a kachcha road. There was no street lighting or planned sewage lines. But the BMC refused to step in—as far as it was concerned, Janki Kutir was still all private property.
 
 The problems finally forced residents to come together and form JKRWA (although, to keep things complicated, there is also a dissenting group). The Bajajs assigned JKRWA the right to manage the roads while they supplied the lighting. But enforcing order has been hard. One lane has been narrowed so much by houses on both sides that it barely fits a twowheeler. “Before,” says Arora, “you could drive an Ambassador through.”
 
 In recent years, JKRWA has stepped up. When a private trust, which owns the last empty plot in the enclave, proposed to build a marriage hall, the association scraped together enough money to challenge it in court. The association has tried to demarcate parking, a difficult issue with so many large new cars. “Prithvi has really helped by posting their own guards to prevent people parking,” says association secretary Babla. “Even when there is a big occasion, they make sure there’s no congestion.”
 
 Still, problems loom. A fire a few years ago was an acute reminder of the lack of easy access to large parts of the property. “Luckily they could bring one tender into the end of the main lane, but it was scary,” says Babla. Some apartment blocks may redevelop in the coming years, raising the prospect of construction chaos and the influx of more people.
 
 Janki Kutir’s future is as uncertain as its legal status, yet residents hope it will remain a place where kids can play in the lanes. “There is nothing compelling us all to come together, and yet we all have a strong sense of being Janki Kutir,” says Almeida. This sentiment perhaps reflects the wider city by the sea —developed piecemeal, plagued by problems and yet, somehow, a place where people want to live.
 
 
