PANAJI: While the post-monsoon maintenance of 51 monuments is nearing completion, the department of   and archaeology (DAA) is also looking at a two-pronged objective of availing students’ help at these sites and also promoting heritage consciousness.

 The four-month long rainy season being intense, heritage sites are largely defaced by overgrowth of vegetation, requiring a rigorous clean-up effort to restore them to their aesthetic ambience. “This year, the work started after monsoon and 90% of the sites have been cleaned up using allocated funds worth Rs 15 lakh,”  , aassistant superintending archaeologist (DAA), said.
 
 Work at Cabo de Rama, Our Lady of Mount, Old Goa, and a few other sites is in their last stages. “The work of cleaning Shigao and Mangueshi caves will be taken up soon,” Sabnis said.
 
 The department now plans to inculcate love for heritage among students by allowing college teams to clean the sites. “After maintenance, which requires machinery and labour, we will look at this initiative,” Sabnis stated.
 
 A few college institutions have shown interest in taking their teams to the monuments. Sixty students of Dhempe College of Arts and Science, Miramar, under national social service (NSS) conducted a clean-up drive late-December at the St Estevam fort, which was built by   originally in the early 16th Century.
 
 “We were shocked to see the amount of garbage at the site. Young people, picnickers and others hold alcohol parties and litter the place daily and on weekends,” said Prajal  , a history lecturer of the college, said. The students picked up plastic cans, chips packets, bottles, liquor cans, cigarette packets and other waste littered from the fort and its slopes.
 
 NSS teams from St Xavier’s Higher Secondary School, Mapusa, and Government College of Arts, Science and Commerce, Khandola, had cleaned up the Corjuem fort and the 9th Century Khandepar caves last year. 
 
 The remote location of monuments makes them vulnerable to vandalism. The onus also lies on people to respect heritage sites and historic precincts, Sakhardande said.
 
 
