NEW DELHI: While they are making a comeback after a two-year suspension,   are yet to identify their 'home ground' for the upcoming edition of the IPL. It is learnt that the   will meet on Monday to discuss the possible options, including the   in Jaipur, which was Royals' base before it was suspended. The venues for Kings XI Punjab's home matches will also be finalised on the same day.

 According to sources, a faction of   has raised the issue of the   (RCA) administrators still not functioning fully after the board recently revoking the suspension of the state body. TOI understands that a section in the board is lobbying for matches to be hosted at the new stadium in Lucknow.
 
 "The Rajasthan High Court had directed to RCA to hold general body meeting to implement the clauses put in by BCCI to revoke the suspension and allow elected administrators to resume functioning. They have held an emergent general meeting and done the required. The next hearing, where RCA will put up its final submission, is on January 24," a top BCCI official told TOI on Friday.
 
 It is learnt that the BCCI now faces a problem in accommodating Pune since last year's runners-up Rising Pune Supergiant won't feature in the tournament anymore. "Pune has also been made a Test centre by BCCI and it hosted its inaugural Test match against Australia last year," the official said.
 
 With Kings XI Punjab's request of shifting out of Mohali being turned down by the board earlier, it is likely Indore would get to host a fair share of KXIP's matches. Indore, too, was awarded the status of a Test centre in 2016. Accommodating Pune in KXIP's schedule could, thus, become taxing for the franchise.
 
 "BCCI can't let go of the home grounds of the franchises. There has to be a connect with the name of the franchise. Jaipur has seen good crowds all these years. The Rajasthan government too has been very supportive and has looked after BCCI's concerns during RCA's suspension period too. It will be unfair if all the matches are moved out of Jaipur," the official said.
 
 The   is also slated to discuss the final list of players going for the auction and get legal update on the   draft case.
 
