RANCHI: Most political leaders are blessed with the gift of the gab, but probably not with as big as the one   has been bestowed with, so much so that the   chief had the cheek to enter into a banter with even the special   judge who nailed him. 

 Despite being sentenced 3.5 years in jail only four days ago, he did not for once seem dejected when he appeared in the special CBI courts hearing the   on Wednesday. On the contrary, he engaged in a light hearted chat with special CBI judge Shivpal Singh before he attended the proceedings in the Dumka treasury case. It was Singh who had sentenced Yadav to jail on January 6. 
 
 The conversation that followed, witnesses present in the courtroom said, filled the room briefly with smiles. When Singh inquired whether Yadav was facing problems in jail, the latter complained that the authorities were not letting him meet his party leaders and other visitors. To this, the judge said visitors will only be allowed following the jail manual. "This why I recommended you to be taken in an open jail," Singh added.
 
 The 69-year-old leader's quick reply was: "There will be genocide if the workers are stopped in open jail. All the 20,000 policemen in Jharkhand will have to be deployed in the security." Singh shot back saying there would be no such thing. Yadav complained to Singh that he was being treated like a "common prisoner". To this, the judge asserted that "law was equal for all, including mass leaders". Yadav was on January 6 sentenced to 3.5 years in jail and fined 10 lakh after being found guilty of cheating, criminal conspiracy, corruption and abuse of his office as a public servant in the case of fraudulent withdrawal of public money worth 89.27 lakh by the Bihar animal husbandry department from Deoghar district treasury in undivided Bihar. 
 
 On Wednesday, the former Bihar CM pleaded before Singh to deliver his judgment in the Dumka treasury case soon. "Sir, please sentence me to 2.5 years of imprisonment in this case," Yadav pleaded. "Why do you say this? Such statements are not to be made," Singh shot back.
 
 With   festival just days away, Yadav rued before Singh about the fact that he could not eat 'dahi-chura' this time for being in jail. To that, the judge said: "We will have dahi-chura here itself. I will order it if you say." Yadav's reply was witty. "No sir, this is a thing of the Yadavs. If I eat dahi-chura with you, then I might end up in a problem like Syed Shahabuddin of Siwan," he said. To this, everyone present in the courtroom broke into laughter.
 
 
