PUNE: As summer peaks and the hills around the city get dry and vulnerable to wild fires, the forest department is banking much on remotesensing to be better prepared to tide over any emergency.

 Besides adopting cuttingedge technologies, the department is focusing much on on-ground awareness programmes to prevent forest fires as most of such incidents are man-made — inadvertently or even deliberately.
 
 
  
 
 “We have commissioned a study through remote-sensing techniques. The aim was to find out places where forest fires have been frequent over the years. The idea is to have a focused approach towards forest fires and deploy resources accordingly,” said chief conservator of forests (Pune region)   said.
 
 “The report is expected to be out sometime in May. Once we are certain of the ground situation, we should be better prepared to deal with forest fires,” he said.
 
 In the past three years, about 875 hectares of forest land has been lost in around 200 wild fires in the district. This led to damage of timber worth a few crores and grassland, a habitat for animals such as leopards.
 
 Based on the report,   said, preventive actions will be taken and more resources stationed at the vulnerable spots. He, however, made it clear that people should be made aware of the dangers of setting vast swathes of land on fire. Many farmers often set after grassland on fire, briven by the myth that it leads to better soil health.
 
 “We have to procure more portable blowers and have more water resources and capable fire-fighters near those spots. Natural factors such as hot wind or dry grass do cause forest fires. But most of the recent fires were man-made,” he said.
 
 Khandekar expressed concern over the chances of fire in hills and forests near the city this year as well. “We have to be cautious about spots such as Warje, Parvati hills, Bhor, Khed, and the Dive Ghat hills and forests. Some of these spots are near human habitation and some are close to bio-heritage sites,” he said.
 
