HOWRAH: The five employees of the toll plaza in  , who were arrested on Saturday evening for inappropriate behaviour with a judge of the Calcutta High Court, have been charged with attempt to murder, assault or use of criminal force to deter a public servant from discharging of his/her duty, wrongful restraint, criminal intimidation, committing crimes with a common interest.

 They were booked under sections 307, 353, 506 and 34 of the IPC and remanded in three days’ police custody by acourt in Howrah on Sunday. While traffic assistants Provash Ghughu and Suvankar Senapati have been identified as the prime accused, the others involved are toll collector Partha De, toll manager Manab Samanta and assistant toll supervisor Bablu Bagchi.
 
 “Justice   was driving towards Bally from Kolkata on Saturday evening when the incident occurred. He was driving the car himself and a friend was occupying the seat next to him. Justice Somadder’s Personal Security Officer (PSO) was in the back. As beacons are not used nowadays, the personnel at the toll plaza could not identify the vehicle initially. However, when it reached the gate meant for vehicles exempted from paying toll, the staff refused to budge even after the   identified the judge,” a senior police officer said.
 
 The PSO also showed the toll plaza personnel a folded National Flag on the car (it was folded as it was evening) but Ghughu, Senapati and others refused to see reason. The altercation between the PSO and toll plaza employees continued for nearly 20 minutes following which the policeman finally informed the Nischinda PS leading to the arrests. The complainant was  , an ASI of the Bally Traffic Guard, who was among the first to reach the spot.
 
 While most police officers in Howrah chose to remain tightlipped, there was no official comment from the   (SVBTC), which handles the toll plaza. An official of the company said on conditions of anonymity that: “We have received complaints of misbehavior in the past as well. Unfortunately, action can’t be taken due to pressure from the unions. In fact, one of those arrested is a union leader.”
 
