KOLKATA: Three-year-old   Nayak conquered death and went back home on Friday after spending 21days in hospital.   head injury, followed by a cardiac arrest and a spine fracture, had posed a threat to Riyan’s life. Despite the challenges, doctors did not give up and the parents did not lose hope as the little boy fought it out.

 Riyan was among the nine children injured during a squall on April 1. The storm had toppled the inflatable slide in  , hurling them on the ground. Riyan’s head hit the cemented ground, causing near fatal injury. His elder sister  , too, was injured.
 
 “We knew from the first day that it was going to be a tough battle for Riyan. But we did not lose hope and the doctors kept on giving him the best care. They saved my child,” said mother  , who too has not gone back home once during the past 20 days.
 
 Riyan was first rushed to   along with her sister. The doctors said they could treat Manisha but suggested to take Riyan to a better facility. That was when the parents sensed trouble and took both the children to Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals.
 
 “Riyan had suffered diffuse axonal injury where he had developed small clots in the brain. It caused swelling in the brain. In many such cases, this leaves the patient in a vegetative state. Luckily, we could save the boy,” said Dr SN Singh, neurosurgery head at Apollo.
 
 The doctors tried to take the boy off ventilation after 48 hours but had to put him back in four hours as Riyan developed respiratory distress. A tracheostomy was done on the fifth day so that ventilation could be weaned off, a step necessary to prevent infection due to prolonged ventilation.
 
 “Riyan had also suffered a cardiac arrest in the ambulance while he was being brought to our hospital. Luckily, caregivers from Charnock Hospital who were in the ambulance successfully resuscitated him,” said Dr Avishek Poddar, consultant paediatric intensive care.
 
 Riyan was taken off ventilation on the 10th day and the tracheostomy was taken out three days later. The boy can now walk, talk and eat normally. But he still has to move around with a cervical collar for the spine fracture. Fortunately, this fracture will not need any surgery and will heal with medication.
 
 Though Riyan is going back home fit, elder sister Manisha could lose vision in the right eye as the fall had ruptured the optical nerves beyond reparing. Manisha had come down from the slide immediately when she felt the gust only to climb up to rescue her brother. But both crash-landed seconds later.
 
 “We are getting in touch with eye speciality hospitals for Manisha but so far there has been no positive feedback. I do not know how she will cope with life ahead with vision in only one eye.” said father Subrat, an IT professional.
 
