What is your hobby?’ has got to be the most common question you face — be it in school or for a job interview. It’s probably because having a hobby gives you another option to find joy, and for some, another way to make some extra cash on the side.
As   is the  , we ask college students about some of their new  .
 
 
 
 
 
 I am a movie geek. Irrespective of the language, I try and watch films on the first day of their release. My hobby is collecting movie tickets of the films that I watch. I began it from Class 10 and used to file the tickets in a separate folder. Earlier they were very colourful but nowadays with the introduction of online booking, a screenshot is enough. Few months ago, I lost many tickets as the file got misplaced at home. I didn’t keep a count earlier but now I have only around fifty. It is special to store these tickets as they hold memories of watching the films with my friends.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 It all began when I joined the CET cycling club two years ago. I am a travel freak and had a craze for motorbikes. But soon I started to fancy cycles and that’s how cycling became my favourite hobby. I challenge myself to cover maximum distance each attempt. Past December, I bought my own cycle and named it Jinn. I have already covered 1250 km, travelling to Kanyakumari, Thenmala and Ponmudi hills on different days. I was also able to inspire my friends to take this up as their hobby as it is healthy, refreshes our body and improves our stamina. The cycling speedometer and route planning apps help me record my speed and distance, and thus get trained to participate in cycling championship
 
 
 
 
 
 I love drawing and am passionate about it. I found my new love for cartoons after I enrolled myself as MCJ student at the college. As women cartoonists are rare in print media, I am happy to become one. I mostly draw cartoons depicting socially-relevant issues including politics. It is fun to sketch your own thoughts and I consider it a mode of self-expression. I also used to draw cartoons for the academic lab journals for my classmates. I scan and save them as soft copies in my computer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Taking tuition classes for schoolchildren is my hobby as it improves my knowledge and oratory skills too. After my graduation in English Literature, I began to give tuitions for school students near my house in Anchal. After joining PG in journalism at Karyavattom campus, I came to know that for the past two and half years a group of students from our men’s hostel has been giving tuitions to underprivileged kids at the Juma Masjid in Sreekaryam. I was happy when I got to know that and decided to join them. We help them out for minimal fees only. For us, it is a way to earn money for our expenses and also do a bit of social work by teaching kids who can’t afford to go to school. We take turns every week and teach them general subjects. My passion is to become a teacher and my hobby helps me get closer to that aim.
 
 
 
