DHARAMSHALA: At least 23 children and four adults accompanying them were killed when the driver lost control of the school bus and it fell into a 100-metre deep gorge at   area in Kangra district of Himachal Pradesh on Monday. 

 
  
  
 
 Kangra district officials fear that the death toll may rise as 11 other children were also injured in one of the worst school bus accidents in the region in recent years. Condition of at least three of the injured children, hospitalised at   in Punjab, is stated to be critical.
 
  All the children are between 5 and 14 years of age. Of the 23 children killed, 13 were boys and 10 were girls. The four adult victims include two teachers, the driver and a woman who had asked for a lift.
 
 The bus, belonging to the   private school, had left the campus around 3pm. It had covered a distance of barely 6 km towards   village when the driver is believed to have lost control of the vehicle and it plunged into a gorge.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 The entire region of Malkwal, about 80 km from   and about 25 km from Pathankot, has narrow and mountainous roads.
 
 Officials said it would be difficult to ascertain the cause of the accident until they speak to the survivors. They registered a case against the driver, Madan Lal, an ex-Army man, who too was killed in the accident. He was booked for rash driving and causing death by negligence under the Indian Penal Code.
 
 Officials said they would talk to villagers who were the first responders at the accident site. Many of them had rushed to the spot the moment they heard the loud noise of the bus hitting the rocks. They could be seen carrying bodies as well as survivors in their arms, their shirts drenched in blood, the officials said.
 
 “I heard a loud bang and rushed out only to see the bus falling down. It reached bottom of the hill quickly,” said Sahil Kumar, a witness.
 
 The vehicle was crushed due to the impact, Kangra SP Santosh Patial told TOI. “We had to cut open the body of the bus to pull out the victims and survivors. We have been able to account for 38 people in the bus. As a precaution, we are making sure no one fell out at the time of the accident,” he said.
 
 Principal of the school, Sunita Kumari, said that the bus was carrying students of all standards — from nursery to class X. “The bus had been inspected by all authorities and had met all norms,” she insisted.
 
 Chief minister Jairam Thakur announced Rs 5 lakh each for the families of the dead and ordered a magisterial inquiry into the accident. Two cabinet ministers — Kishan Kapoor and Sarveen Choudhary — reached the spot late evening to monitor relief operations.
 
 
