NEW DELHI: India’s leading gymnast,  , has blown the lid off the selection drama surrounding the   contingent for the Gold Coast   next month. Ashish, who won India’s first-ever gymnastics medals at the 2010 Delhi CWG, claimed on Wednesday that he had competed at the 2006 Melbourne   and 2009 World Championships without the mandatory ‘FIG licence’ – an identification card issued by the sport’s world governing body, FIG, to all gymnasts in order to participate in international competitions.

 
 
 Ashish’s revelation has come in the light of the Gymnastics Federation of India (GFI) and Indian Olympic Association’s (IOA) recent claims that Mohammad Bobby and Gaurav Kumar were denied a spot in the gymnastics contingent because they didn’t possess a valid FIG licence.
 
 
 
 Ashish’s revelation seems to have called their bluff as the Allahabad-born gymnast further revealed that if the federation (GFI) is willing, processing of licence doesn’t necessarily take a month. 
 
 “I got it in a few days. Don’t exactly know the technicalities but it all depends on the federation. If they really want, they can always get it done (from the FIG) early,” Ashish told TOI. “I competed at the Melbourne CWG without the licence. It was my first CWG and I was very young at that time. It was only after the 2009 Worlds that I got my licence,” informed Ashish.
 
 GFI and IOA’s problems could further be compounded as BJP’s Member of Parliament from Agra, Ram Shankar Katheria, and the Department of scheduled caste and scheduled tribes welfare under the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment have written to sports minister Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore, citing the injustice meted out to Bobby and Gaurav.
 
 Katheria, who is the chairman of the national commission for scheduled castes, has urged Rathore to immediately take up the matter with the concerned authorities to ensure that the names of two gymnasts, Bobby and Gaurav, are included in the final CWG squad. Bobby and Gaurav, who are employed with the Indian Navy, hail from poor families in Uttar Pradesh. Bobby’s father, who died last year, was a labourer, while Gaurav’s father works in a shoe manufacturing unit in Agra. This would have been their maiden CWG appearance.
 
 GFI and IOA officials had contended that since it would take at least a month for Bobby and Gaurav to get their licenses, their names were replaced by Rakesh Patra and Yogeshwar Singh. It’s the selection of Yogeshwar which has led to heartburn.
 
 The results of trials, in possession of TOI, show that Ashish finished first, followed by Bobby and Gaurav. Aditya Singh Rana and Arik Dey occupied the fourth and fifth positions respectively, while Yogeshwar finished sixth. As the selection trails were held from February 12 to 14, the federation and IOA had enough time to get their licenses made if the one-month yardstick was to be applied.
 
 “How could a gymnast finishing sixth (total 73.45 points) be named for the CWG? I (with 75.85 points) and Gaurav (75.30 points) were well ahead of Yogeshwar on points. Patra, who only competed in three out of the six artistic rounds totalling just 40.60 points, was also included. This is cheating,” said a disheartened Bobby.
 
 “If the GFI and IOA are saying we don’t have the licence and it can’t be made, then they should have named Arik in the squad. He finished fifth (73.75 points) and has the valid licence (till May 2019),” he added.
 
 When TOI contacted GFI official Deepak Kabra, he justified the team selection. “The rankings don’t reflect the right picture. The selection panel should have ranked the gymnasts based on their performance in every individual round rather than ranking them on overall performance. Bobby and Gaurav can’t go because of licence issue. Moreover, it’s the IOA which finalises the contingent.”
 
