Kolkata: The saffron tsunami in Tripura’s red citadel has posed a challenge to   Banerjee, who hit headlines seven years ago by devouring the Left in West Bengal in 2011. 

 The poll result has sent out signals that winning elections in Left bastions isn’t Banerjee’s monopoly any more. And moreover, if the country’s poorest chief minister Manik Sarkar can lose elections, then Didi can’t get away with her “hawai chappal” image.
 
 But then, Banerjee isn’t new to a BJP-RSS offensive. She gave a solo fight to BJP during the Modi wave of 2014 and took on BJP on the one hand and the Congress-Left ‘jote’ on the other in the 2016 assembly polls, and came out with flying colours. Her next test is the coming Bengal rural polls.
 
 In all the elections held in Bengal since 2011, BJP has improved its vote share at the cost of the Left with the Front’s vote share sliding from 40.22% in 2011 assembly polls to 29% in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls and further down to 25.8% in the 2016 assembly polls. But BJP has not been able to dent Trinamool’s ascending vote share.
 
 BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh believes the party will make it possible from the coming panchayat polls. “Like in Tripura, things will start changing in the next six months. Didi is thus worried. She wanted CPM to win the Tripura polls. She is giving a lifeline to Left and Congress to arrest BJP in Bengal,” Ghosh said. 
 
 Trinamool secretary general Partha Chatterjee, however, held the Trinamool government in Bengal was not facing the strong anti-incumbency that sunk Manik Sarkar’s ship in Tripura. “Mamata Banerjee’s government has carved out an alternative development model that keeps it sailing,” Chatterjee said.
 
 Yet, the Left debacle in Tripura throws up certain vulnerable areas for Trinamool leaders to take note of. Most important among them are the Adivasi areas in the foothills of north Bengal — Kalchini, Falakata, Madarihat, Dhupguri, Mal Nagrakata — and the tribal areas in Jangalmahal — West Midnapore, Purulia, Bankura — parts of Birbhum, Malda and the two Dinajpurs. BJP and RSS have already made impressive dents in these areas following the model the party has taken up for Adivasis, SC/STs and Dalits across the country. It has borne rich dividends in Tripura. 
 
 The second most vulnerable area is the Hindu refugee areas, where people went with the Left, and are now gravitating towards BJP. The Left’s erosion in refugee belts has contributed to BJP’s rise there to a large extent. And, the Hindutva concept is getting traction among the educated Bengali middle class groomed in a secular atmosphere.
 
 Banerjee is aware of it. She is thus frequenting Jangalmahal and north Bengal to see that government goodies reach the beneficiaries fast. She is also desperate to fetch investments in Bengal and stop educated youths’ migration.
 
 
