GURUGRAM: Ten more parents have come forward with complaints against  , a private school in Palam Vihar, alleging their children were harassed for not paying tuition fees.

 They joined two parents — Ravi Kumar and Ashok Kumar — who have approached Gurugram police and the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), respectively, accusing the school of making their 10-year-old daughters sit on the bare floor in cold weather. The school has denied these allegations and said some of the parents had been threatening teachers over text messages. The fee dispute has been festering for over a year with parents’ opposing upward revisions in the fee structure.
 
 The child welfare committee said on Tuesday it has received a complaint from Sanjeev Kumar, a parent, and that it would form a task force that will visit the school on Monday. Thereafter, on the basis of their report, action will be taken against the school. “I have lodged a complaint everywhere in this case. At the CM window, an official asked me when I can’t afford the fee, why I send my kid to a private school,” Kumar told   on Tuesday. 
 
 The next hearing in the high court is on February 28. The Haryana State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (HSCPCR) has received two complaints and written to the deputy commissioner.  , member (HSCPCR), said, “The Juvenile Justice Act will come into force in this case. A parent has spoken with me. Based on the complaints, we will start an inquiry.”
 
 Asked what had happened in the school, a Class 7 student said, “We were made to walk out of class. It was shameful. The classes didn’t have benches or seats, so some students sat on the floor while others stood the whole day.”
 
 The administration is keeping a close watch. Deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh said, “We will examine the issue once a complaint reaches us.”
 
 The school, started as  , changed to DPSG (Delhi Public School, Ghaziabad Society) in 2016. A new management took charge a new fee structure was put into place. Many parents protested against that and the dispute has flared up sporadically. Last May, the school closed for a few days after parents protested outside and on the campus.
 
 Its principal Deepika Sharma had told TOI on Monday no punishment had been meted out to the kids. “The children were practising for a cultural function. The matter is being distorted,” she had said. “The parents had threatened our teachers. They had sent texts asking teacher if they had forgotten the Yamunanagar incident. The allegations against us are totally false.”
 
 
