THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The government has formed a five-member   committee to submit recommendations by May 10, ahead of the ward delimitation process. 

 The committee – headed by principal director ( ) as the chairman and panchayat director as the convener – will have urban affairs director, chief town planner and director of KILA as other members. The report will mainly concentrate on recommendations regarding division of existing panchayats, formation of new ones, conversion of panchayats to   and refixation of boundaries of present municipalities.
 
 The first sitting of the committee is scheduled on Tuesday. The government is acting early, ahead of delimitation this year, to steer clear of all legal hurdles and confusion that had resulted following delimitation during the UDF tenure. State election commissioner had sent a communication to the state government seeking early steps in this direction.
 
 “It is ideal for the election commission to have at least a year for preparing voters list and other steps following delimitation. If the recommendations put forward by the bifurcation committee get to implementation stage following hearing very early, all steps could be completed in a timely manner,” said state election commissioner V Bhaskaran.
 
 Kerala now has 941 grama panchayats, 152 block panchayats, 14 district panchayats, 87 municipalities and six corporations. During the UDF regime, 66 new panchayats, 28 municipalities and one corporation were formed in 2015. In a series of gazette notifications, numbering close to 15, the UDF government had initiated a bifurcation process in January 2015 that had led to legal cases regarding bifurcation of certain panchayats and formation of new municipalities like Kazhakkoottam.
 
 LSG minister   said that the decision of UDF government had ended in legal tangles because of procedural errors. “UDF had bifurcated panchayats without mandatory formation of villages. We would mainly be focusing on ward delimitation this year,” he said. If government sets out to reorganize panchayats based on formation of villages, 591 new panchayats will have to be created in the state, states the official estimate of LSG department.
 
 As per the directive issued in the government order dated 27.11.2014, state governments can bifurcate panchayats after considering various factors like population, area, geographical features of the panchayat, improved service delivery facilities for people and own fund. Governments are empowered to upgrade panchayats as municipalities and municipal councils as corporations based on Section 4(2) of Kerala Municipality Act.
 
 Grama panchayats are converted to municipalities mainly based on aspects like population, income, labour force engaged in activities other than agriculture, development possibilities of an area, connectivity, etc.
 
 
