LUCKNOW: Victim of a  , 25-year-old   lost his life at a young age, but on Sunday, he gave life to a number of living others when his organs were donated.The resident of  , son of a bus conductor in state roadways, Nivesh became the 23rd organ donor at   (KGMU) where the team of doctors and counsellors worked hard on making the family see benefits to the society in donating their son's organs.

 The first   of this year at KGMU, the same was conducted after a long gap, with the last   at the medical university conducted in March 2017, due to internal roadblocks. 
 
 On Sunday, team of doctors led by  , head of the gastrosurgery department, and including Dr Vivek Gupta, Dr Vishal Gupta, Dr Manmeet, Dr Parvez, Dr Pradeep Joshi, Dr Saket Kumar, Dr Nikhil, Dr Rakesh and Dr Pawan retrieved Nivesh's organs. 
 
 Both of Nivesh's kidneys were retrieved and sent to Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI) and both the corneas sent to KGMU's eye bank. The liver was retrieved and donated to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Delhi with a green corridor setup by the traffic police.
 
 Nivesh, who had recently started his fast food business, met with an accident on January 2, when his motorbike slipped on the road and he suffered head injury. brought to KGMU's trauma centre on January 3, Nivesh was declared brain dead on January 6.
 
 "The family initially had said no even when Nivesh was brain dead. Since his vital statistics were being maintained on the ventilator and he was very young, the family had refused. Midnight on Saturday, we got a call from the father and a second round of counselling with the entire family was done and they agreed," said counsellor and transplant co-ordinator Peeyush Shrivastava with his team including Kshtiz Verma and sociologist Ashwini Singh.
 
 Adding in Prof Chandra said, "Even though it was very late in the night that the family decided for donation, all of us reached the hospital, got the body shifted from trauma centre to the organ transplant unit and the retrieval was done on Sunday afternoon."
 
