CHANDIGARH: Taking a reverse stance on the issue related to conversation of three senior officers with one of the main accused in spreading violence in Panchkula in August 2017 after   chief   was convicted of rape, Haryana additional chief secretary (home) S S Prasad has now submitted that Panchkula district magistrate (DM) was competent to authorize them for negotiations with the dera leaders.

 Prasad, however, asserted that he had no information regarding authorization of the three officers by the Panchkula DM on August 25, 2017 to negotiate with the dera functionaries. Any such authorization was a matter of record between the DM and the three officers, he added.
 
 The officers who are under the scanner for talking to the accused included Panchkula sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Pankaj Setia, Bhiwani SP Surender   and   who is presently posted as DSP in the Indian Reserve battalion of the state police.
 
 Earlier on March 8, Prasad, who is head of the state’s home department, had told the HC that no decision was taken by the government authorizing Setia, Bhoria and Chander Pal for
 
 taking a course of conversation with the accused. It was also submitted that these officers did not inform the government about any conversation with the accused and such a course, if any, was taken by them at their own level without the approval of the state government.
 
 However, in its fresh affidavit filed on Monday, the ACS (home) has claimed that it is not disputed that the DM Panchkula was competent authority to take all such necessary steps which also included authorizing the officers of the district administration to remain in contact with the dera leaders for maintaining law and order situation.
 
 He, however, claimed that it was not in his knowledge that on August 25, 2017, the district magistrate Panchkula had authorized any officers to remain in contact with the leaders of the dera.
 
 Explaining his previous stance, Prasad, however, submitted that he had no intention to supply incorrect information to the court. “All decisions and the steps for maintaining law and other in the district were taken by the district magistrate, Panchkula at her level as per the requirement of law and order situation in the district at the relevant time,” the officer has claimed.
 
 The issue had reached before the court in the wake of an anticipatory bail plea by Jasbir Singh, a resident of   and an accused in violence case.
 
 According to the Panchkula police, Jasbir is among the top functionaries of the dera and one of the main accused responsible for spreading violence in Panchkula. Claiming innocence, Jasbir has been arguing that he was not involved in the violence and that he was in touch with senior officers trying to defuse the situation.
 
 Meanwhile, strongly opposing bail to accused Jasbir, the Haryana police have announced an award of Rs 50,000 on his arrest. Panchkula assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Munish Sehgal informed the HC that Jasbir was found actively participating in inciting the mob and provoking them to indulge in arson, rioting and damage to public/private property.
 
 It was further stated that without his custodial interrogation, the investigation of the cases registered against him would not be concluded.
 
 
