AHMEDABAD: Amdavadis are not only   but also   in   every day. 

 The city’s most frightening traffic bottlenecks are guzzling thousands of litres of fuel each day during peak hours. 
 
 Just how much fuel your vehicle burns while idling in a traffic jam was gauged by a recent study carried out by Central Road Research Institute (CRRI) and NIT Suratkal (in Rajasthan) on the 2.9-km Vijay crossroads-Thaltej crossroads stretch, at three major intersections. (The three intersections studied are SAL Hospital, Vijay crossroads and Himalaya Mall tri-junction.) 
 
 
  
 In the 16 hours of traffic analysis, researchers found that Amdavadis had burned 921.5 litres of petrol, 479.12 litres of diesel and 646.94 litres of CNG.
 
 The amount of particulate matter pollution (PM 2.5 microns in size) one would have been exposed to at these junctions can be imagined! 
 
 Of the three junctions, Amdavadis wasted the highest amount of fuel at Helmet crossroads where 486.67 litres of petrol, 358.11 litres of diesel and 361.22 litres of CNG were burnt by vehicles whose engines had been kept on. This is not all. 
 
 At these three major intersections, Amdavadis had spent a total of 5 hours slowing down or travelling at speeds less than 5 km per hour or less on the 2.9-km stretch. 
 
 Of these five hours, nearly 4 hours and 21 minutes were spent idling while stuck in traffic jams.
 
 CRRI and NIT scientists CR Sekhara Purnima Parida, S Gangopadhyay and Pranoy Rajb, also calculated the number of vehicles passing by these junctions during the 16 hours studied. 
 
 At SAL Hospital, the researchers counted 1.07 lakh vehicles, followed by 93,645 vehicles passing at Vijay crossroads, while 74,972 vehicles passed through Himalaya Mall tri-junction. 
 
 “Idling in vehicles only leads to accumulation of various gases and minute particles produced from fuel combustion,” said a senior GPCB official.
 
 “In the upcoming Air Action Plan for Ahmedabad, the state government has pressed for better road planning and traffic management to ensure that idling time of vehicles at traffic junctions is reduced drastically. We have also advised more tree plantation,” said the GPCB official.
 
 
