PATIALA: A day after media highlighted how more than 700 students of   (YPS) were made to stand in the sun for hours, the district child welfare committee (CWC) on Tuesday constituted a three-member panel to conduct a detailed probe into the incident.

 Chairman of the child welfare committee D S   said the probe committee would comprise the district child protection officer (DCPO), a social worker, and a member of the district child protection unit.
 
 Gill said the allegations made by the parents were quite serious in nature and the committee intended to dig out all the details. Following that, two members of the child protection unit visited the school and interacted with the school director for over 45 minutes. After that they also spoke to some of the parents about the incident.
 
 DCPO Omna, who has been entrusted with the inquiry, said they had heard school director Major General   (retd) who had informed them that action had indeed been taken against the students, but the issue had been blown out of the proportion by the parents.
 
 She said during the meeting, the director termed it as disciplinary action and not a punishment meted out to students. The director also told the team that three sports kits had gone missing from the school premises and as there had been frequent complaints of thefts being reported, he had decided to line up the students so that such activities could be put to an end.
 
 She said that inquiry panel would also be meeting the parents and the affected students to bring out the complete truth about the incident. She said once the inquiry is completed they would be submitting the report to the chief welfare committee, which would suggest further action that can be taken in this regard.
 
 Gill said after they get the inquiry report of the panel, a separate team of the CWC would also visit the school to cross verify the facts. He said they had seen a copy of the written complaint sent by the parents to the chief minister  , child welfare groups and the  .
 
 “However, the parents have not mentioned their addresses or phone numbers in the same. The CWC has appealed to the parents to come forward and get their statements recorded with the panel so that inquiry can be completed.”
 
 He said the probe panel was expected to submit its report within the next few days.
 
 
