By her own admission,   exceeded her expectations and spent nearly 100 days in the   (BB) house. She was one of the popular people in the house, who sparked several debates and discussions due to the company she kept while on the inside. Soon after she left the house, Anupama got candid with Bangalore Times and told us that since 24 hours have to be crammed into a mere 1.5 hours, the audience misses out on a lot of context, and, therefore, things seem much worse on TV than they were in the house. Anupama predicted that   would walk away with the BB title, but was always rooting for her friend,  , to do so. Here are excerpts from our interaction with her…

 
 
 I am kind of nervous. I felt like I was in another world. I feel so different outside.
 
 
 
 No, I thought that I would stay inside only for four weeks and was surprised that I was there for 14 weeks. But I was happy to be around for 99 days.
 
 
 
 I really want someone to hug me (laughs). I wanted to share so many things when I was in the BB house, but because of the mic, I couldn’t say anything.
 
 
 
 No, no! (laughs).
 
 
 
 My friend, Neha (Ramakrishna, TV actress).
 
 
 
 The kitchen, and the view. The blue door. Bigg Boss’ voice. The mic. Listening to songs first thing in the morning. I miss each and every thing.
 
 
 
 I miss JK. That’s all.
 
 
 
 There’s no option for you to do that inside. You have to stand for the right things and fight back. You have to voice your opinions — that’s what BB is all about. And that will change everything for you. You can’t be quite all the time, or shout all the time. You have to adjust with the people and go with the flow.
 
 
 
 Yes. I really want to spend time with the top five contestants again. And I can cook again — I miss the kitchen. I would love to go inside again.
 
 
 
 I achieved many things. I have become a strong woman. I used to cry and be quiet all the time. But now, I am strong. That is an achievement that I had while being inside the house.
 
 
 
 People were surprised by my attitude, because I used to cry a lot inside. People saw me a certain way on TV, so they couldn’t digest seeing the real Anupama. I have received positive and negative comments, and I am OK with that.
 
 
 
 The thenginkai (coconut) task. It was very difficult and I sustained a lot of injuries. None of the tasks were easy and through them, you get to learn how much you can mentally and physically push yourself.
 
 
 
 No, there was nothing as such from the celebrities’ side. The thing is that whoever walks through the BB doors becomes a celebrity. Whatever issues were there were from the ‘commoners’ itself. We didn’t do anything.
 
 
 
 To be honest, I haven’t watched any episode yet. I’ll have the shock of my life when I do, I think (laughs). I don’t want to watch them also, because I think that the opinion that I have of people will change, and I don’t want that.
 
 
 
 I don’t know why such stories came out. Just because two people are close, it doesn’t mean they are in a relationship. They can be friends or family. There wasn’t anything like that on the inside.
 
 
 
 There was nothing like that. She stood up for me all the time. See, the audience gets to see a 1.5 hour summary of what we do in 24 hours. The actual goings on in the house are not shown. There is much more that happens on the inside. There was no friction with anyone. Ashita is a very good friend and we met again recently in the real world.
 
 
 
 We took a stand many times, which wasn’t shown. People have seen us fight, but we had a lot of fun inside the house as well. When a fight begins, the beginning and end weren’t shown — only the middle was shown on TV. Different opinions have been formed about people, but if you see the uncut version, you will see that it is not true.
 
 
 
 Jay sir ( ) was in the garden area in the beginning and he used to talk to us nicely. We, the bedroom area people, didn’t speak about anyone. There was no character assassination by us. We didn’t fight much. They (garden area people) used to mingle with us and then talk behind our backs, and then fight. I think that caused some distance, but we were all fine.
 
 
 
 The issue was only because of one activity in the last week that I was in the house. I have always supported her and maintained that she is not a child. I stand by that. But there were no issues.
 
 
 
 I was! Chandan even proposed to me with an apple and I said OK. We got married in the garden area. All of this was in jest, of course. But it shows how comfortable I was with him. He is a good friend and we were singing partners. Fights do take place in the BB house, but we make up as well.
 
 
 
 I am a very bad singer. Chandu created a song for each one of us, and while in the house, we planned to shoot a video for that. And I think we will be doing that.
 
 
 
 I don’t know. I got one surprise right after coming out of the house that Dayal sir (Padmanabhan, director) has announced a film with me and JK. He told me the story when I was out and I have agreed to it. I am happy about that.
 
 
 
 Turning point — I think this is the turning point in my life, personally, not professionally.
 
 
 
 
 
 JK.
 
 
 
 Jayasreenivasan sir.
 
 
 
 No one (laughs).
 
 
 
 Krishi (Thapanda) and Shruti (Prakash).
 
 
 
 JK and Jayasreenivasan sir (laughs).
 
