NEW DELHI:   men working at a   manufacturing   at Nawada village in southwest Delhi died after a fire broke out there on Monday night. Another worker was admitted in a critical condition and is currently undergoing treatment.

 Fire department officials were informed at 11pm about the incident and four fire tenders were sent to the spot to control the blaze.
 
 During the operation, fire men found three men — Satender Ravidas (40), Arvind (29) and Chandan — lying unconscious inside and took them to a hospital where Ravidas and Arvind were declared brought dead while Chandan is critical. The two victims died of asphyxiation, officials said.
 
 DCP (Dwarka) Shibesh Singh said a case under appropriate sections of IPC has been registered and the owner of the unit, Randeep Verma, has been arrested and is being questioned. Verma told police that he had employed eight workers at the unit. 
 
 A preliminary probe revealed that the work was going inside the factory at the time of the incident. The raw material was kept near the main gate which was locked from outside. Police said early indication suggests that the fire started from the electricity board due to a short circuit after some fluctuations. The fire from the wire immediately spread to the plastic raw material and powdered chemicals used in making utensils.
 
 “The fire started near the gate and spread inside the compound. A small gate inside the main gate was open, but was covered with packing material, so it could not be used to escape,” a worker from the adjacent unit said.
 
 Fire men said the hinges of the gate and the side wall bore marks of damage done in an attempt to break the gate to rescue people.
 
 Locals said the unit was manufacturing crockery, which was exported abroad as well. Work would usually continued till 2am after which the workers would sleep inside the factory itself, they said. Locals claimed that there were six people inside the factory at the time of the incident; however, police couldn’t confirm this.
 
 Both the victims are native of Bihar and had been working at the factory for the past two years. Their families were informed about the incident and were handed over the body in the evening after autopsy. A team of forensic experts were also called to investigate the site and ascertain the exact sequence of events and the cause of fire. 
 
 Workers at the Nawada industrial area stopped work on Tuesday demanding compensation for the victims and action against the factory owner.
 
 
