CHENNAI: Bungalows with guava trees and ixora bushes conjure up memories of a bygone life now overrun by multistorey buildings with cubicle-sized balconies that can hold a couple of potted plants. In an expanding city with shrinking open space, a patch of green is often a luxury. Until,   gardening crept in. 

  
 
 A decade ago,   was an idea very few had heard and a handful practised. Subashree Vijay was among those keen on recreating their backyard on their terrace. Unable to find proper information, she mostly learned by getting her hands dirty. "A decade ago, the cost of setting up a terrace garden was very high and not many could afford it. But now it has become an inexpensive hobby and there are more than 1,000 people nurturing terrace gardens in the city," says the Alwarthirunagar resident.
 
 In apartment complexes, a garden on the rooftop is becoming a community venture. "For a terrace garden in a 400sqft area, the initial investment is around `10,000. Within this space, one can grow at least a dozen   besides five kinds of flowers and an equal number of herbs," she says. Okra, tomato, cluster beans, broad beans, radish, snake gourd, bitter gourd, carrot, ginger, capsicum, beetroot, sugarcane and corn are some of the commonly grown vegetables on terraces. 
 
 Apart from vegetables, Subashree has mastered the art of growing medicinal plants and has 250 species at present. Of this total nearly 150 of them are in great demand commercially. "Even the horticulture department refers people who approach them for herbs to contact me," she says with a hint of pride.
 
 Besides daily watering and occasional spraying of pesticides, the annual removal of weeds and pruning of branches are the laborious aspect of the job. Considered a stress-busting activity, it is the satisfaction of having organic vegetables that has inspired many to discover their green thumb in the recent past. "The idea of coriander leaves and greens dipped in chemicals to kill pests and retain the fresh look used to distress me," says Subashree, adding that plants on the terrace also help lower heat radiation. Busting misconceptions of gardening being water intensive, the physics graduate says use of the water-retentive coco pith instead of soil has helped bring down water use so much so that during summer they can be watered only once a day.
 
 With vertical gardening and soil-free plants taking root in the past few years, the spot of green in every household is a reality the constant gardener is proud to see.
 
 
