Nagpur: Dashing the hopes of several wannabe scholars, Nagpur University   Pramod Yeole has ruled out starting the registration process immediately for   aspirants whose PET validity is expiring before April 2, the date fixed for the this year’s batch.

 As per the university’s latest PET schedule, the online registration is to start on April 2 and end on April 20. This will, however, make the candidates who had cleared the PET in 2013 ineligible for registration. As per university’s regulations, the PET validity is fixed for 60 months only. As these candidates had cleared the PET in January 2013, their eligibility will expire in January 2018 itself and hence they had petitioned the university to open the online registration portal for them immediately.
 
 The NU had announced the new PhD direction and exam schedule after much delay on December 20. Accordingly, the PET-II exam would be held on February 2 followed by result on February 26. The online registration would start on April 2 and end on April 20.
 
 Yeole, who is chairman of Research & Recognition Committee (RRC), said the students have been given enough time to register and the link can’t be activated separately for the previous applicants. “As per the direction applicable to earlier batch, the students had got five chances to register themselves,” Yeole told TOI. He, however, did not explain why the link cannot be opened for previous students.
 
 The pro-VC sounded self-contradictory when asked why one-month’s gap between PET-II and online registration was kept. “Even one month is less since the candidates have to select a topic, guide, place of research, literature review etc,” Yeole said.
 
 Candidates of 2013 PET batch said the Pro-VC is ignoring the fact that same issues — topic and guide selection, deciding place of research — are faced by all and not just by those who would be registering in April.
 
 “In the last few years, there has been no specific schedule for conducting the PET. Every year, the NU has held it as per its convenience. How does the university expect us to plan our research when the date of registration is not known,” the students pointed out.
 
 The PhD   agreed that they did get five chances since 2013 to register themselves, but also pointed out that several factors, especially because of NU polices, were not favourable for them to do so. “At least four chances were lost because we didn’t find a guide. Then there was no vacancy. Finally, when there was a guide and vacancy, they (guide) didn’t belong to the place of research — a condition introduced in 2016. It is unfortunate that the pro-VC is putting the entire blame on us while we are not responsible for the deadlock,” the candidates said.
 
 TOI has been consistently highlighting how the new direction is affecting hundreds of PhD aspirants. On December 26, TOI had reported that the new direction was silent on PET validity of those aspirants who had cleared the exam between 2013 and 2015. The batch of 2012 had moved the high court on the same issue and secured a decision in its favour.
 
 “By shutting the door on students, the Pro-VC is again forcing them to approach the court,” a guide said.
 
 Box
 
 The Issue
 
 Pro-VC Pramod Yeole says online registration can’t be started for Jan 2013 batch before PET-II exam
 
 He says the 2013 batch got five chances as their PET score was valid for 60 months
 
 Candidates say all these years conditions like guide, place of research and vacancy were not favourable
 
 They want NU to open the portal immediately so that they save a year as well as efforts to appear for the PET next year again
 
 As per new direction, PET validity is just 36 months
 
 They say with stricter norms, it would again be a long wait to find guide, place of research and vacancy at one institute
 
 
