City students are rapidly learning the art of multi-tasking and are becoming financially  , thanks to jobs and assignments that cater to their   timings and schedule. In addition to earning extra pocket money, they make the most of these opportunities to gain experience while maintaining a balanced act with their studies. Bangalore Times explores more…

 
 
 College is no longer only about fun and studies for students, as many of them feel that earning along the sidelines is a must. “I began modeling when I was in Grade 11 and since then I have been doing it regularly. For a student like me, it’s a great opportunity to earn and gain experience,” says Tanvi Shetty, a final year student of PESIT.
 While modeling, giving tuitions are some of the most common ways to earn quick bucks, there are several students who are entrepreneurs and do what they are passionate about. Sanjana Singh, a first year student from St. Joseph’s College, who turned her passion into business, says, “I have been blogging for a while and wanted to have some DIY videos on my blog. That’s when I stumbled across making hand crafted soaps and have been making them for over a year now.”
  
 Similarly, Nishanth Naidu, a first year student from St. Joseph’s College, gave up engineering to pursue his passion for photography and filmmaking. “I left engineering and took a break to build my portfolio as a photographer and a filmmaker. Once that was taken care of, I joined college again to pursue a course of my choice and now I work over the weekends,” he says.
 
 
 
 Students these days feel that scoring good marks doesn’t make the cut and that having work experience is an added advantage. “When we have an option available to us, why not make the most of it,” says Raghu Ganapathy, a first year student from PES University, who gives guitar lessons, does corporate shows and is the official performing artiste for a hotel in the city.
 It’s also about having that extra work experience on your resume that is taken into consideration when you apply for a job, say students. “When people ask me, it feels so nice to say that I work as well. It’s like an addition to my resume other than what I do in college,” says Abhishek Pde, a third year student from Kristu Jayanti College, who works in a content marketing company.
 But does the pressure to do multiple things get on them, we ask? “Sometimes it does. I feel that only going to college and attending classes doesn’t help. You need to do more,” says Tanvi. Peer pressure also pushes them to do better. “The need to prove yourself as a student gets bigger with each passing year and that is why a lot of students these days are doing multiple things. It also helps us with work experience and gives us exposure to the outside world,” says Abhishek.
 
 
 Gone are the days when students would ask for pocket money from their parents. “Whatever I earn from selling my hand crafted soaps, I use that money to buy ingredients for the next batch and whatever I manage to save after that, I use for my personal expenditure. Though my   help me with managing my business, financially I handle everything on my own,” says Sanjana. Nishanth, on the other hand, adds that he tries to saves as much as he can for his equipment. “I get a little money every month from my parents, but I try to save some from my assignments, which I use later to buy equipment for photography and filmmaking. I do not want to burden them because the equipment is quite expensive,” he says.
 
 
 
 It has become increasingly important for students to earn while they attend college. Sacrifices becomes a part of this as they juggle work and studies. “Sleep most definitely goes out of the window. If you want to work and study, there are some things that you will have to give up. In my case, I sleep less,” says Raghu. In addition to this, work takes a backseat during exams. “If I get any assignment during or before exams, I try not to take it up as my first priority will be exams,” Tanvi sums up.
 
 
