BENGALURU: Not paid salary for five months now, a government school staffer has written to governor Vajubhai Vala seeking permission to undergo euthanasia if he doesn’t get his pay.

 “My salary is due since September last year. As I could not pay house rent, the landlord has thrown us out and we have no place to stay. I don’t have money to ensure three square meals for my four dependents, leave alone buying medicine for my high blood pressure. I seek your intervention to ensure I get my salary or be allowed to undergo euthanasia,” wrote Mohan Kumar T G, a non-teaching staffer.
 
 Mohan is among the 11teachers and three non-teaching staff members who were shifted from   in Chamarajpet to Government VK Obaidullah High School in Shivajinagar, after the government decided to shut down the former last year. After being moved to the new school on June 6, 2017, they were paid wages for three months, but their salary stopped from September.
 
 Between attending their duties in the school, they have been running from pillar to post for their salaries, but to no avail. When contacted, Mohan declined tocomment.
 
 “After shifting us, the education department had to take steps to transfer our salary accounts too. But it has not been done till date,” said Gowri Bhat, a mathematics teacher who is also affected.
 
 Government New Fort High School comes under   district and the Shivajinagar school under  . As a procedure, the deputy directors (DDPI) of both the districts had to inform the Bengaluru urban zilla panchayat about shifting of the staff so that the authorities could have reallocated the wage disbursal. The situation could turn critical if the education department fails to ensure the teachers and other staffers get their salary by March 15. Pay allocation has to be done afresh in accordance with the budget for the new financial year starting April 1.
 
 The staffers were given their pay for the first three months as the education department could adjust it towards salary of the existing vacancies in the north district. It was stopped once the vacancies were filled subsequently.
 
 
