PATNA: The   has approved a redevelopment plan for several stations under the East Central Railway (ECR) in  , Jharkhand and UP. These stations include Patna,  , Samastipur, Vaishali and Sonepur in Bihar; Dhanbad in Jharkhand and Mughalsarai in UP.

  DRM Ranjan Prakash   said the plan got approval on March 7. Under the Danapur division, Patna Junction and Nalanda are to be redeveloped at an estimated cost of Rs 15-20 crore each. “The redevelopment work at the two stations will be completed by December-end,” said Thakur.
 
 The plan envisages betterment of passenger amenities, construction of foot overbridges , provision of lifts and escalators, construction of boundary walls and provision of washable apron on the platforms.
 
 Thakur said architectural experts were being consulted for a facelift to the two stations. An additional divisional railway manager-rank official has been tasked with overseeing the execution of the redevelopment plan at these two stations. 
 
 According to the DRM, the mainline section of the division — from Mughalsarai to   — has already reached about 160% saturation point. “Keeping this in mind, the railways has decided to set up a route relay interlocking system at Danapur station to control the huge flow of traffic through a mechanised signal and track controlling device. It will become functional in June this year,” he said, adding Patna Junction and Jhajha were already equipped with this advanced device.
 
 The railways has also approved a plan to build a sixth platform at Danapur station to cope with the load of about 260 pairs of passenger trains passing daily through Danapur station. Passenger amenities will also be improved at 100-odd halts of the division this year. The railways will provide platform sheds, sitting desks, safe drinking water, platform surfacing and toilets at these approved halts . 
 
 Meanwhile, the railways is contemplating withdrawal of blanket facility in the AC coaches of mail and express trains during summer. Instead, bed sheets will be provided to passengers and the temperature in the coaches will be maintained between 22 and 24 degrees C. 
 
 
