The night before the controversial documentary God Sex and Truth (GST) was to be released online, the ongoing spat between scriptwriter P   and director RGV took a scandalous new turn. Alleging that that the concept of GST was stolen from a script he shared in 2015 for review, Jaya Kumar accused   of making sexual advances against him and even went on to call him a “sex freak” who “has abused many young artistes and writers, much like disgraced   Mogul  .
Speaking to Hyderabad Times, Jaya Kumar said, “I have filed a `5 lakh lawsuit against Ram Gopal Varma for stealing my work without my consent in the  , which has taken congnisance of my case. You can check my court case files and prima facie evidence and see my version of the same ideas and statements I emailed him for a review. He pirated my work word to word and is claiming they are his.”
 
 RGV shot back at Jaya Kumar and accused him of committing financial fraud and theft. RGV also claimed that the emails sent by Jaya Kumar (which he has shown as proof that he had communicated with the director) were either hacked or stolen. “I gave work to one Jai, who I came to know is known as Jaya Kumar, without him having any background credentials only out of my habit of encouraging new people, which I am known for. Even though his work was below par I gave him numerous chances to prove himself (sic),” RGV said in a statement. 
 
 
 “Jaya was caught multiple times stealing from the office and committing financial fraud and also theft. After many warnings he was removed from office some 8 or 10 months back and now he suddenly surfaced falsely 
 claiming plagiarism towards me... The written material of God, Sex and Truth which he put on the public domain which he is claiming to have sent to me is actually either stolen or hacked or passed on to him (sic),” the filmmaker added. 
 
 
 
 However, things took a dramatic turn on Friday, when Jaya Kumar alleged Ram Gopal Varma of sexually harassing and dubbed him as “the Harvey Weinsten of Bollywood”. “He prides on being “macho” but he is just a sex freak with money. Whenever he offered me money for a h**djob or a b**wjob or an a**l calling me to his hotel rooms, I was fighting against his demands of gratifying fantasies forgetting that by rejecting his offers, I was refusing his demands thus becoming more and more vulnerable to getting exploited. When you’re a hopeful artist and if you see there’s hope somewhere in successful people, it is just an illusion of power which seeps into your systems of control and takes over your senses. But his was a cold calculation. And when the time came, he showed his true colours. I don’t wish to be the sort of person to “out” a homosexual, 
 especially when my creative career is coming under fire, but it’s high time that I stand up against his sexual harassment. I wish all the people who he abused will come forward with a #metooRGV campaign..... (sic)” Jaya Kumar alleged in a social media post. 
 
 
 
 The scriptwriter also alleged that RGV doesn’t understand the meaning of plagiarism. “He with his male obsession of wielding power has completely missed the point about plagiarism. He’s used my words in order to place 
 himself in a fantasy world. He says he doesn’t want to monetise the content because he’s already gotten what he desired — to “direct” a pornstar and be in a position to tell her what to do — as a puppeteer, not a facilitator 
 of liberation. And then he anyways monetised it (sic),” Jaya Kumar alleged.
 
 
 
 Meanwhile, RGV too has initiated legal action against Jaya Kumar. “The writing of God, Sex and Truth are in the mails of at least 15 odd people who worked on the project in various capacities over the past 3 months. In fact, God Sex and Truth was conceptualised and I started working on it only in the last three-four months, whereas Jay was removed from service some 10 months ago. I kept quiet all this time because I didn’t want to draw attention to such criminal minded fraudsters. But now I initiated stringent civil and criminal proceedings against him invoking various sections of the Indian penal code and I already reported to the cyber crime division with regard to his criminal activities,” (sic) posted RGV. 
 With neither side backing down, this controversy could get bigger, especially with Jaya Kumar calling for people to start a #MeTooRGV campaign, to speak out against the director’s alleged incidents of sexual harassment.
 
 
 
