KOLHAPUR: Back in 1972, a 35-year-old orthopaedic surgeon   had a chronic neck pain. After various modern medicine treatments failed, he turned to yoga for relief. 

 His own experience with the ascetic discipline made him a big proponent of yoga. Over the next 46 years, he practiced and advocated yoga with vigour. Gunde passed away at   in Kerala on Wednesday morning following a cardiac arrest. He was 82.
 
 
  
 One of Gunde’s relatives said he was with his daughter in Kerala where she recently built a home. “The pooja and all rituals of a new home were carried out. He had gone out for a morning walk on Wednesday. When he returned home, he suffered a cardiac arrest and died on the spot,” the relative said. 
 
 The body will be brought to   later on Wednesday night. The last rites will be performed on Thursday here. 
 
 An alumnus of   in Pune, Gunde was the first orthopaedic surgeon in Kolhapur, recalls S R Patil, physician and Gunde’s senior from the medical college. The two had aimed to conduct 1,000 yoga workshops, but Gunde’s passing away would put an end to their plans. 
 
 “He used to say everyone should be healthy and free from diseases. Back then, people hardly knew the usefulness of yoga. Besides practising his profession, he also practiced yoga and advocated vegetarian diet,” said Patil. 
 
 Patil remembers a call from   with an invitation from then President of India K R  , made Gunde a household name. Gunde was called to offer his advice to the President for an ailment. 
 
 “During the short meeting, Gunde suggested some yoga tips to Narayanan. Later, many eminent personalities sought health advice from him,” said Patil. 
  
 Gunde believed that not many efforts have been taken in modern medicine to keep a person free from any disease. 
 
 “Gunde took efforts to make people free of stress. His lectures at the hall of Shahu Smarak in Kolhapur would be house full. He started the ‘Wellness Clinic’ in 1978 to train youths in yoga and spread awareness on nutrition,” said Patil. 
 
 
