BHOPAL: A letter written by state Congress party chief   to party president   seeking his participation in the death anniversary of former state Congress president late Subhash Yadav has stirred a major political controversy in  . As soon as the contents of the letter went viral, BJP objected saying Congress is indulging in caste politics and it is an insult to OBCs, who are being considered 'vote bank'. 

 Subhash Yadav was a veteran   leader from the Nimar region.
 
 The letter dated May 31, accessed and circulated by BJP state spokesperson Rajnish Agrawal, urges Rahul Gandhi to consider attending the anniversary programme given the huge gathering of OBC community in the region, alleged the BJP.
 
 "Late   was deputy chief minister of Madhya Pradesh and a prominent OBC leader. His death anniversary (barsi) is being observed on 26th June 2018 at noon at Kasravad in Khargone district of Madhya Pradesh," read the letter by Kamal Nath.
 
 The letter goes on to illustrate that MP has a huge OBC population and it is expected that large number of people will attend this function to pay tributes to the OBC leader who had a considerable sway in Malwa-Nimar region.
 
 "Being in campaign mode, this will be an important programme in Nimar - Malwa region covering 61 assembly segments. I request you to consider attending this function which shall be called as 'Samvidhan Bachao - Desh Bachao'. I consider your participation in this programme important," the letter concludes.
 
 Subhash Yadav (1945 - June 26, 2013) was a senior Congress leader and the former deputy chief minister CM of MP in   cabinet. He had also served as the president of MP Congress Committee (MPCC) and was elected to the Lok Sabha from Khargone constituency in 1980 and 1985. To come back to power, Congress aims to displace the BJP government's 15-year regime with the help of OBC votes. Besides, Kamal Nath also wanted to contain the ire of Yadav community after Yadav's son Arun was removed as state Congress president last month.
 
 BJP launched a scathing attack against Congress for playing caste politics after the letter went viral. "Congress revealed its face through this letter. The party is playing politics to woo OBC population as their 'vote bank' and insulting the backward class leaders and voters," said BJP state spokesperson Rajnish Agrawal.
 
