CHANDIGARH: Thursday’s incident of a student hitting a female teacher in the school premises under the alleged influence of alcohol, has raised questions on security in schools.

 When approached, the teachers, of not just that particular school but also of other schools sounded concerned about their security on campus as it was not the first of its kind incident. Various unions also expressed the same concerns before the director school education  .
 
 This has come in view of growing insecurity among the teachers after the incident. They shared that students misbehaving with teachers has become a common practice and now, they grown outrageous so much so that they are even up to hitting teachers. They said this was because the authorities are only focusing on children’s safety and ignoring the teachers’ security completely. “This incident has clearly raised the issue of security of teachers. The administration and the society must consider teachers along with the students as an integral part of education system. But in the recent past, teachers have been ignored and students have been well looked into,” said president of   teachers welfare association Arvind Rana.
 
 Teachers said it is not the first such incident as there have been instances of misbehaviour and scuffle in the past but that occurred in the heat of the moment. However, in this case the student came back to take revenge.
 
 Teachers also shared that many a time such matters are settled through compromise, which is why they are not highlighted. But, the same should not happen in this case.
 
 A teachers union also shared another incident that occurred in the same week but was not highlighted for the above reason.
 
 “We have a number of times demanded for PCRs outside schools to curb these type of incidents but nothing has been done. The administration is least concerned about out security. Another recent incident of assault in another government school is in our knowledge, where a similar incident happened with a male teacher. But the matter was suppressed an after apology from the student. Last year also, a student assaulted a teacher. The administration should take preventive measures to avoid such attacks which are increasing due to alleged drug menace in and around schools and colleges,” said the president of UT cadre educational employees union  .
 
 The unions also questioned the presence of the child protection committees at a time a student has attacked a teacher out of his (alleged) addiction to alcohol?
 
 KEY DEMANDS
 
 -To take strict action against the culprit
 
 -To take suitable steps for safety of the teachers
 
 -Exemplary punishment should be given to the defaulters by registering FIR against him
 
 -Deputing the PCRs outside schools
 
 The case
 
 A Class XII student of a government school, who was allegedly under the influence of liquor, assaulted a female teacher on the school premises, after the latter asked him to go to his class instead of sitting in the corridor on Thursday.
 
 Corporal punishment questioned
 
 Teachers and officials from the education department said corporal punishment has tied their hands and given undue advantage to students. They said a student, if hit, gets justice, but the case is not the same for teachers and this is evident from the increasing cases of misbehaviour by the teachers.
 
 
