SURAT: Senior BJP leader and economist   said he will send former Congress president   and former finance minister   to jail. 

 Swamy was in the city to attend an event organized by a city-based non-governmental organization at Veer Narmad South Gujarat University (VNSGU) convention hall on Friday. 
 
 He said Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi placed the bricks in the last four years, but could not find the perfect masons to construct the building. It’s time to learn from the past mistakes and grab another chance to win over the polity.
 
 Referring to black money, Swamy said the government never asked me how to bring back the black money. When Italy and Egypt could bring the black money back, why not India. There is a United Nations (UN) resolution on black money. India could easily use the resolution to bring back the black money. But it seems that there are many leaders within the BJP party who are not willing.
 
 “I had told PM that I can show an easy way to bring back the black money. He (Modi) told me to give in writing. I did that. My letter was forwarded to the finance ministry,” Swamy said. 
 
 “I told them (Modi) to catch the thieves and sent them behind bars. I did that with Sonia Gandhi in the National Herald case. She was convicted in the case and was out on bail. I will ensure that Gandhi is again sent to the jail. Similarly, P Chidambaram will also go to jail. People ask me why I am after Chidambaram. I tell them, he (Chidambaram) was referring me as a Hindu terror, now I want to show him what the real Hindu terror is,” Swamy said. 
 
 Taking a potshot at former RBI governor Raghuram Rajan, Swamy said, “They (UPA government) made Raghuram Rajan as the RBI governor. He increased the bank interest rates to bring inflation under control. By doing so, the small and medium industries were ruined and the unemployment increased.”
 
 “If you remember, a ring master in the circus has the power to control five lions. This doesn’t happen overnight, but the lions are trained from time they were cubs. Same was former PM  , who was controlled by Sonia Gandhi,” Swamy said. 
 
 
