MUMBAI: Hours before taking his first  , Rutvik Ghadsi (15) died at his Worli home in the early hours of Thursday. Doctors at   have reserved the cause of death; they are awaiting the  . 

 Rutvik’s family said he had no related medical history. “It was all very sudden. He had suffered a bout of   over a month ago, but had recovered and completed his medication two weeks ago,” said his elder sister, Manali, a college student. 
 
 Ritvik, who studied in Shishuvihar School in Marathi medium, lived in Adarsh Nagar with his mother and two sisters. His father died of TB over a decade years ago. 
 
 On Wednesday evening, Rutvik played holi with friends and then returned home and did sone last-minute revision. “He went to sleep around 11.30am and asked his mother to wake him up at 5am. He also asked her to accompany him to the exam centre for the 11am paper,” said Akshay Mandavkar, a family friend. 
 
 Manali said, “Around 1.15am, Rutvik felt uneasy and woke up. He called out to mother; we thought he was having a fit. We called the neighbours, who helped us rush him to hospital.” Rutvik was brought dead to KEM Hospital at 1.50am on Thursday. 
 
 “A postmortem was performed and the body handed over to the family,” said Dr Avinash Supe, dean, KEM Hospital. “We have reserved the cause of death. His heart and lung tissues have been preserved for histopathology.” Commenting on speculations that the teenager died of a heart attack, KEM head of forensic medicine Dr Harish Pathak said it would be “unscientific” to deduce that without the histopathology report. “We have preserved his heart tissue for evaluation. He had a sudden death and there are many reasons that could have caused it. We were informed that about fortnight ago, he had suffered from jaundice, and had recovered.” The report is likely to come in a couple of weeks.
 
 An official from his school said, “Ritvik was a sincere student. He enjoyed playing kabbadi. The news of his death has shocked everyone.” A few teachers also visited the family. 
 
 
