KOLKATA: Have you had difficulty buying your favourite liquor brand? Many in the city have been facing the problem for nearly a month now with hiccups in the transition from private to state-controlled distribution continuing even two weeks after   (Bevco) took control of the business.

 While several brands of   have gone out of stock following a shutdown of three major breweries in the state, many brands of hard liquor are also difficult to come by. Retailers blame the crisis on the switch to the new distribution model. 
 
 WBSBC, that began distributing liquor in north Bengal last July, forayed into the rest of the state in phases and finally entered Kolkata on January 19.
 
 The shortage in retail points has been brewing since the start of the year with private distributors keen to clear old stocks and refusing to pick up fresh ones lest they got stranded with stock as all distributorship licences were cancelled once Bevco took over the business.
 
 But the situation did not improve even after Bevco’s takeover on January 19. An IMFL retailer said several big liquor companies had reduced   to the state-owned firm due to irregularities in payment.
 
 “Payment issues have led to the irregular supply of liquor and shortage in multiple brands. We have been calling for more supply but Bevco has been unable to streamline its operations and meet the demand,” a retailer said. Bevco has 10 warehouses in the Kolkata circle.
 
 Irregular supply of some of the leading brands has provided a window of opportunity to some new labels to enter the market.
 
 An excise official said the demand-supply gap was owing to teething trouble that would ease in due course. “Even in the districts, there were some hiccups initially but they were ironed out. It will happen in Kolkata too,” he explained.
 
 
  
 
 While shortage in beer was not felt till last week due to the dip in winter demand, with the mercury now northward-bound, demand has stepped up, exposing the supply crunch. A government official though said the beer shortage wasn’t connected to Bevco but owing to a very different reason.
 
 The problem, according to him, was owing to the closure of three major breweries in the state: one at   that manufactures  , another at Dhanekhali where   and Tuborg are manufactured and finally the one at   where Haywards and Budweiser are made. They have all stopped production anticipating a downward revision in price that will render stock with higher price useless in the retail market.
 
 Together, the three plants account for 95% of 1.40 crore cases of beer (each case contains 12 bottles) consumed in the state annually. More than two-thirds of the beer is consumed between February and July when it is both hot and humid in Kolkata.
 
 with the beer labels demanding a revision in the duty structure of beer whose price has escalated 25%. 
 
 The price of average 650 ml bottle of light beer had initially gone up from Rs 160-170 to Rs 280-300 and strong beer had increased from Rs 110 to Rs 190. It was later revised downwards to Rs 250-260 for light beer and Rs 170 for strong beer. 
 
 “We spoke to the state government, following which the price was revised downward. But even then, it is too steep a hike for consumers,” said a retailer. An excise department official claimed the state had only rationalised the duty structure in beer.
 
 Retailers said the steep hike is pushing beer drinkers to hard liquor. “Many drank strong beer as substitute to IMFL. With strong beer now priced at Rs 160-170, people will switch to IMFL. It will make breweries unviable,” said a retailer. A 180 ml bottle of rum costs Rs 90 while one can get a whisky at Rs 100.
 
 
