It has just been a little over 24 hours after table tennis sensation and Delhi girl   landed in Delhi after her record haul of four medals at the 2018 Commonwealth Games in  , and the champion has hardly slept. "She has been going from one TV studio to another for interviews since she got here," her mother tells us as we enter the Batra residence in west Delhi's  . There is a cabinet covering almost an entire wall in the living room and the only thing it houses are the innumerable trophies and medals Manika has won. In the centre sit the four glittering medals that say 'Gold Coast Commonwealth Games 2018'. It is in front of this cabinet that Commonwealth champion Manika Batra speaks to us about her triumph. She looks jet-lagged and tired, but talk about table tennis and her eyes immediately light up.

  
  
 
 In both her gold medal wins, she had to beat the strongest female player in the field – World No 4 and three-time Olympic medallist   of Singapore. Having beaten such a seasoned player twice in one week, Manika says she is much more confident of facing the Chinese onslaught at the Asian Games in a few months. She says, "I am more confident but I have to restart my training now. The Chinese players are quite accomplished and facing top-10 players is a different ball game. I want to play how I played in the CWG in the upcoming tournaments like the Asian Games. I do feel more confident now because while playing against Feng, too, I was not thinking that she is World No 4. If I was thinking that, I don't think ki main jeet paati."
 
  
  
 
  Ask any table tennis player across the world if they would want to face a Chinese player and the answer would be a resounding no! Manika feels this mental block is what has stopped Indian players from beating top-ranked players. "I should not think if the opponent is World No 4 or World No 40. If I think along those lines, I will play under pressure," she says, summing up her philosophy, before adding, "Most Indian players think, 'Oh, she is Chinese, how do we beat her!' I try and tell them that we don't have to think if the opponent is Chinese or World No. 1. We should play our game. While going to the table, just give your 100%, whatever may happen. In the Qatar Open, I was playing against a Chinese opponent and I was 3-0 up at one point. Even though I lost, it was the best game I played, because I wasn't thinking about the opponent's nationality or ranking. Before every match, we strategised about how to play each of them. At that time, I was confident that we can beat them. After we were leading 2-1, it was my singles match against Feng. I went to an open space in the stadium and sat there, telling myself 'I can beat her again'."
 
  One of the lasting images from this year's Commonwealth Games was the women's table tennis team – led by Manika – teary-eyed on the podium as the national anthem played, moments after they beat Singapore in the gold medal match. Recalling that moment, Manika says, "Yeah, we were emotional at that time. Every country was there and our national anthem was playing. I cannot even put it in words. It was a dream come true, obviously. At that time, I could only think that my mom would be even more proud and happier than me." Some people wear their heart on their sleeve. Manika wears hers on her nails. Her unique nail paint in Gold Coast, which replicated the Indian flag, caught the fancy of many fans. In fact, she was so confident of a medal that while she painted her finger nails in the shape of the Indian tricolour, she painted the nails of the thumbs gold. "Before Rio Olympics also, I had put on this tricolour nail paint. Obviously, I am proud of being an Indian. The tricolour is in my heart and I put it on my nails also. I love to flaunt it," she says.
 
  
  Manika Batra
 
 Her newly-attained star-status was only apparent to her after she landed in India on Tuesday morning. Even though her flight landed at 5.40am, there was a sizable crowd to receive her at the airport, which took her by surprise. "I was enjoying that moment because it was the first time that happened. Last time, after I qualified for the Rio Olympics, then also there was a crowd at the airport. But this time, so many people were there that I was feeling on top of the world," says the 23-year-old. Among the million congratulations that came her way after her wins, Manika is clear on which is her favourite – her mother receiving her at the airport with her favourite food, paneer parantha and strawberry shake. "The most special congratulations came from my mom. She didn’t say anything. We didn’t get to talk much when I was in Gold Coast, but after I landed in Delhi and she received me, she just kept kissing me," she tells us. Was it more special than the tweets from sporting legends and the Prime Minister? "Of course!" laughs Manika, "she is my mom." But then, immediately, she composes herself, and adds, "But, honestly, that tweet from the PM meant a lot."
 
  
  
 
 But Manika is clear that her visibility will also help the sport, which has been her aim all through her professional career. Comparing this win to the breakthrough that other games have seen through Olympic medals, Manika says, "I'm sure table tennis will get more popular, just like badminton and boxing have through the likes of Mary Kom, PV Sindhu and  . So, I'm sure after my win, table tennis will get more visibility, and I'm happy for that. I always wanted that." Manika attributes some of the success that she and the team have had in these games to the growing professionalism in the sport, which she saysis a direct result of the Ultimate Table Tennis, the professional league launched by the   last year. She elaborates, "The league has helped a lot of Indian players, because through it, we get to play and practise with some of the top foreign players. Last season, I beat many good players, and that was a great learning experience. I’m sure this exposure will take table tennis in India to greater heights." Till last year, despite being the highest ranked Indian player in the world, Manika was like any other Delhi girl. Today, she is a public figure. There are banners outside her house and all over her neighbourhood thanking the 'golden girl'. People now ask for selfies and autographs when they see her. Has all that sunk in? "I have wanted this. I am waiting to go out and have people say 'Oh, Manika Batra!' and then ask for autographs," the 23-year-old says with a laugh.
 
 
  
 
