Trichiites, gear up for the second episode of   coming Sunday as it is about to get more exciting with loads of added fun activities and special events, this time around.

 Times of India, with the support of   and Trichy city police, kick-started ‘Happy Streets’ an initiative to reclaim the city streets, at   (west) last Sunday.
 
 The inaugural programme of the event was a huge success as people of all age groups got to participate in several activities and contests – at the street devoid of vehicles and usual traffic – with much zest. While kids totally embraced outdoor activities like top-spinning, sack race and cycle race, adults got a chance to relive their childhood as they competed in fun games like lemon-in-the-spoon, snake and ladder and more.
 
 Also, many parents stated that the session ‘Strengthening Interpersonal Relationships’ by clinical psychologist Dr   was an eye-opener. They got to know about the effective ways of raising children. A few parents also said that they were relieved that their children woke up early in the morning- a habit which they were not really used to before- for Happy Streets.
 
 For the second programme, a varied range of fun activities like cycling, skateboarding and fitness activities like yoga, zumba and aerobics have been planned.
 
 Apart from these, a silambam performance by a group of young boys from the martial arts academy  , will be one of the major highlights of the event. In fact, the school is run for free of cost by a city-based policeman R Aravind. "This session would not only be high on visual appeal, but it will also create awareness about silambam as a healthy activity," Aravind told TOI.
 
 On the other hand, fitness therapist Murugaprabhu would be conducting a session ‘Increase your ease of life with flexibility, coordination and balance’ for all participants. Also people, who have unique talents, will have an opportunity to exhibit their skills at the Talent Corner.
 
 The Happy Streets initiative will be conducted every Sunday over the course of next 11 weeks at Thillai Nagar 10th Cross Street (West) from 6 am to 9 am
 
 Special events:
 
 1. Performance: Silambam show by Suruli Andavar Martial Arts School students
 
 2. Session: Increase your ease of life with flexibility, coordination & balance by fitness expert Murugaprabhu
 
 3. Talent Corner – Let the city know about your talent
 
 
