KARWAR:   Neelu Padti, 109, from   village of   taluk is a living role model for all those who are giving up  . “I’m not 109-year-old, but 109-year-young,” he says, proudly.

 “I am healthy and I don’t need to use spectacles. But unless somebody speaks loudly, I can’t hear,” he says.
 
 Even at this age, Bhagawant ploughs his field with the help of a pair of oxen owned by him. Bhagawant’s father was also a farmer. “I started looking after our 3 acres after he passed away. I married at a young age. After that I had 12 children. Of them, 3 died when they were teenagers. Of my 5 daughters and four sons, two sons died recently. All my other children are in the age group of 75-85 years,” says Bhagawant who has great grandchildren.
 
 After his sons deserted him many years ago, Bhagawant shifted to   where he had some land. One of his four married daughters stays with him. One of his grandsons occasionally visits him.
 
 Bhagawant sells his produce to locals who in turn trade in the market. His 95-year-old wife,   helps him in agricultural activities. “As there was nobody to look after me I continued to work in the fields,” he says.
 
 Bhagawant said he gets up at 5 am and starts agriculture activities at 6 am. “I work in the fields till the evening,” he says.
 
 Bhagawant grows paddy during its season, and vegetables and groundnut during the rest of the time. “There is no connecting road to my land, so I can’t bring a tractor to plough the land. I do it manually, but I never feel tired,” he says.
 
 “I eat coconut and jaggery and I sometimes take porridge. My relatives and neighbours sometimes take me for a ride, and I enjoy it,” he says.
 
  says even at this age, Bhagawant’s memory is very strong. Activist   said Bhagawant is a rare gift of God. “Even at this age, this man joins hands with villagers and participates in cleaning work in the village. Despite their hard work, the old couple has no proper shelter. They live in a hut, and during the rainy season, they live in a pathetic condition. The gram panchayat has converted a part of his agriculture land into non-agriculture land, to build a house,” he says.
 
 With the younger generation losing interest in agriculture in   district, the agricultural lands here are becoming unproductive. Uttara Kannada has small land holdings, and the repeated failure of rain, and natural calamities often cause losses to farmers.
 
 
