MANGALURU: The   will set up 20 pink polling stations with all women staff in   district. 

 District electoral officer S Sasikanth   said five polling stations each in   City South, Mangaluru City North and Mangaluru constituencies will be declared as pink booths.
 
  Belthangady, Moodbidri, Bantwal, Puttur and Sullia, too, will get one pink polling station each. St Victoria Girls High School, Lady Hill, DKZP Higher Primary Schools in Bejai, Gandhinagar, St Aloysius Higher Primary School, Urwa and Government Girls PU College, Balmatta of   constituency will be the pink polling stations in the city. 
 
 The DC said the election commission will also set up five ethnic polling stations in the district. Ethnic polling stations will be set up to promote the regional lifestyle and ethnicity. DKZP Higher Primary School, Neriya, DKZP Model Higher Primary School, Bellayur, Kendriya Model Residential School, Madhya, Surathkal, DKZP Upgraded Higher Primary School, Balnadu and DKZP Higher Primary School, Subrahmanya, have been identified to set up the ethnic polling stations, he added.
 
 In addition, the Election Commission also has plans to set 2-3 model polling stations in the district. Senthil said the model polling stations will have all facilities including reception area with chairs, specially deputed staff to help voters and other facilities. The district administration has also identified 10,300 physically challenged voters and all arrangements will be made to bring them to polling stations on May 12. Plans are on anvil to introduce transportation to polling stations in remote areas. In addition, there is a proposal to make election a festival. People will be requested to decorate their premises during election, the DC said.
 
 Officials have been trying to include beggars in the rehabilitation centre. It will be possible only if those beggars in the rehabilitation centre are mentally sound. Similarly, the district administration is in touch with election commission to bring patients in various hospitals and medical colleges in Mangaluru to the polling stations. However, a final decision on it will be taken only after the election commission's nod, he added.
 
 
