CHENNAI: The   government's expenditure is likely to overshoot the budgetary estimates by more than 10,000 crore. 

 In the first supplementary estimates presented by   minister   in the assembly on Friday, he sought nod for an additional expenditure of 6,522 crore for 2017-18. However, finance department officials told TOI that by the time final supplementary estimates are presented, the expenditure could increase by 10,000 crore.
 
 In the supplementary estimates, 2,519.25 crore is earmarked for the transport department to clear the huge backlog of retirement benefits to be paid to its employees. The disaster response fund will get 1,919.75 crore. The assembly passed the resolution to increase the expenditure by a voice vote. The total expenditure is expected to go beyond 1.75 lakh crore in the present financial year.
 
 "The supplementary estimates are being presented mainly to obtain the approval of the legislature for expenditure on new services and new instrument of service items which were sanctioned since the presentation of budget estimates to enable recoupment to the contingency fund," said Pannerselvam. Experts believe this year's revenue deficit will be high compared to the budgetary estimates as the government is not able to control its expenditure and at the same time, there is likelihood of a revenue shortfall. "TN's case is unique as it spends revenue collection on welfare aid. It is facing a crisis now because revenue has not grown as expected in the last few years," said   and Policy professor N R  .
 
 "In the last few years, TN has not been able woo private investors to set up units in the state. All the neighbouring states woo investors, but due to the political instability, TN has been losing out to its neighbours," said Bhanumurthy.
 
 With regard to GST, the state has to keep its fingers crossed till June. "TN may be a manufacturing state, but whether GST has hit the state's revenue or not will be known only in June. Revenue loss due to GST may not be big compared to the loss due to losing new investments," said Bhanumurthy. The government has accorded administrative sanction for 608 crore Infrastructure Development Fund for improving 1,435.96km of panchayat union roads and panchayat roads, said Panneerselvam.
 
 
