May 7 is the official birth date of Rabindranath  , who gave a new direction to Indian art, culture and music with his revolutionary ideas. But the   community in the city is celebrating Gurudev’s birthday on May 9 (Baisakh 25), as per Bengali calendar. And to mark this special day, a lot of interesting programmes are being organised in the city. Here’s the update on the preparations…
One thing that instantly connects Tagore with common people is his music. So, there is a lot of thrust on Rabindra Sangeet when it comes to a day dedicated to Tagore. President of Paschim Nagpur Bangiya Samiti, Arup Mukherjee, shares, “This time, a lot of Rabindra Sangeet artistes from the city are presenting some of the favourite compositions of Tagore. This is a way of keeping his legacy alive. Later, there will be a pure vegetarian community meal, where satvik delicacies including shukto, khichuri, chana dal and ghonto will be served.”
 Tagore’s music is definitely more popular, but now there are efforts being made to popularise other aspects of his literature in Nagpur. Secretary of Bengali Education Society, Pradip Ganguly shares, “It is sad that youngsters today aren’t aware of Tagore’s essays, stories, novels or plays. So, we have decided to promote his prose on his birthday. Since preaching would bore the youngsters, we have invited Jagannath Bose and Urmi Mala Bose, two well-known artistes from Kolkata, on this occasion and they will present Shruti Natok, based on Tagore’s stories and plays. I’m sure this would help in promoting Tagore’s heritage.”
 There are experts on Tagore’s writings, who feel that more work has to be done if one wants to give a real tribute to the Karmayogi. Kamalesh Banerjee, who can recite more than 200 songs of Tagore, without glancing at a piece of paper, says, “The fact is that outside Bengal, people have forgotten Tagore. The onus lies on us seniors to ensure that we introduce his writings to the youngsters of all age groups.   High School has introduced voluntary classes on Tagore; other schools and colleges can also follow suit to pay homage to the Nobel Laureate. He is quite relevant to the youth today because his writings are based on the theme of Indian wisdom, which opens new windows of thought process.”
 The youngsters are quite excited to enjoy the cultural fiesta on Tagore’s birthday. An arts student, Nivedita Dutta, shares, “I’m participating in the group dance on this special occasion; since this is my first public appearance, I’m quite excited. Ever since I was selected for the dance, my curiosity about Tagore is aroused. I have already read his novel Gora and my heart tells me that this is just the tip of the iceberg; this love will not wane anytime soon.”
 Nivedita’s friend and another city collegian, who’s pursuing her Law, Rachit Zade, shares, “I have read the English translation of Gitanjali, but recently when I heard the translation of some of Tagore’s poems and got up close with Rabindra Sangeet, I realised that his is quite a simple but magical world waiting to be discovered. I’m all geared up to enjoy the cultural feast and adda thereafter to enrich my heart and soul.”
 
