Nagpur: Body painted in tricolours, 13-year-olds Prachi Zha, Shital Lodhi and Ashwini Choudhary stood for hours at Samvidhan Square on Thursday. The girls were encouraging people to give home to strays.

 On the eve of Republic day, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) India along with city-based People for Animals Welfare Organisation staged a silent protest in the city, encouraging people to buy indigenous dog breeds rather than local ones. According to recent estimates provided by PETA, there are nearly 30 million   in India.
 
 Buying foreign breeds has become a fad, said Radhika Suryavanshi, PETA campaigns assistant. “The problem started with the business of breeding which has turned out to be very questionable. Every other day, illegal breeders are being busted all across the country,” she added.
 
 Nikunj Sharma, lead public policy, PETA India, said, “People need to stop buying from the breeders. Breeders, pet stores and people who do not sterilize their dogs or cats add to the animal overpopulation crisis.”
 
 Highlighting more problems with purebreds, PETA in a statement said that the breeding process causes a wide range of health defects in animals. “Pedigree dogs sold in pet shops are typically deprived of proper veterinary care. As they are bred for certain exaggerated physical traits, they suffer from abnormally high rates of genetic and hereditary diseases,” they said.
 
 On the other hand, Indian ‘desi’ dogs are more “instinctive and low-maintenance”. Suryavanshi said, “It is biologically natural for an Indian stray to survive in our weather conditions. Being healthier and more robust, they make much better companions than foreign breeds, but we underestimate them a lot.” 
 
 Youngster Vishal Dashottar, who came to support the campaign, shared his experience with TOI. “My grandfather had 12 stray dogs as pets. They were very rough and tough, attentive and would safeguard all of us. Though all of them have died, I am now following my grandfather’s footsteps and going to adopt a stray soon,” he said. 
 
 Another advantage of adopting a stray is that it can control the menace of street dogs. “This is a common problem in many urban cities. The animal birth control programme carried out by the local bodies works over a long period of time. But to control the growing population, adoption programmes should be simultaneously taken up,” said Suryavanshi.
 
 Local activists recently submitted a proposal to the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) urging it to the start a permanent adoption centre for stray pups. “Most of them lose their lives coming under vehicles,” said Karishma Galani from People for Animals Welfare Organisation.
 
 
