BENGALURU: Businessman Chandrakanth S Kondli, 38, who was arrested last week for allegedly murdering his wife  , had paid Rs 25,000 to get his employee  , 24, to dispose of the body.

 A police officer said Kondli literally begged Singh and fell at his feet to convince him into disposing of the body. Singh had initially declined to oblige, considering the risks involved. But Kondli reminded him about how he had helped him when he landed in Bengaluru looking for a job six months ago.
 
 Singh was grateful to Kondli as the latter had given him a job at his bar. Kodli would also take Singh along wherever he went, the officer said. Kondli was confident that Singh would do his bidding and chose him for the job. 
 
 Kondli, a partner in   and Restaurant in  , called Singh over phone on January 6 night, and asked him to come to his Kempapura-Hebbal home urgently. Hours earlier, the businessman had smothered Akshatha, a former   HR official, to death with a pillow. The couple was drinking and partying at home. Police say Kondli suspected his wife of infidelity.
 
 Singh was shocked when Kondli told him that he had murdered Akshatha and required his help to dispose of the body.
 
 “Singh initially refused to execute the plan as he feared arrest and the fact this could defame his family. Singh’s elder brother is a soldier. He, however, relented after Kondli fell at his feet,” the officer said.
 
 Kondli asked Singh to take the body in the car and burn it in some forested area. He gave his friend’s car to Singh and also Rs 25,000. 
 
 Now in jail with his employer, Singh continues to be loyal to his master. “Singh requested us to let Kondli go and only arrest him. He declined to reveal any information and relented only after Singh asked him to tell everything,” a police officer said.
 
 The murder came to light after Akshatha’s mother   filed a missing person complaint. Police picked up Kondli for questioning and he soon spilled the beans. Kondli was an accused in a murder case registered in   in 2004, but was acquitted in 2011.
 
 
