Driving down the six-lane   , it is impossible to miss the bold warning signs that say, "You are under surveillance.   will be prosecuted at the next toll plaza."

 Team TOI drove on the Delhi-Agra   from 12 am to 1 am and again from 3.30 to 4.30 am on Tuesday. Here’s what one saw. Sedans hurtle at speeds estimated anywhere between 120-140 kmph and vanish from sight in seconds. Conversely, tractors swollen with fodder crawl. Trucks move gingerly in the speed lane, some without tail lights. TOI spotted one motorcycle rider driving on the wrong side without lights and without a helmet. Jogging on the highway is kosher among village youths preparing for jobs in the paramilitary or the police. Until three of them were run over by a rogue vehicle last November. "When asked to stop, they would just shrug saying, "Aapko to vardi mil gayi hai, aap to aisa kahoge hi."
 
 Talking to UP cops and Jaypee patrol staff one gets a sense of why the Expressway has become a playing field for   rules violators. Overspeeding combined with drunken driving is the main cause of accidents, they say. In the past five months, Surir police station in Mathura district alone recorded 30 deaths. The highway patrol cops don’t issue challans for traffic violations. "It is not manually possible to stop vehicles speeding at over 100 kmph, it would only cause accidents and jams," says a cop. He adds that it can only be done electronically. However, occasionally, cops from adjacent police stations do set up checking posts, he says. Tyre bursts due to overheating often cause accidents. And it doesn’t happen only during summer; cops say, two such incidents happened last winter.
 
 "Jaypee has three accident control rooms at Jewar, Mathura and Agra toll plazas. We have 10 vehicles that work 24x7," says a patrol official. But it seems the highway patrol entire mechanism is geared to maintaining law and order and attending to victims but there’s no operative system in place to reduce the number of accidents. After accidents, a cop says, villagers often try to pilfer the personals of the victims rather than help. "People are more interested in taking selfies, making videos," he says.
 
 It is a tough and risky job, patrolmen say. Head constable Suresh Chandra says last June he was trying to pull out an injured man from a crashed car when a truck, ignoring the cones, ploughed through them. Chandra was badly injured around his hips and head and was on medical leave for five weeks. 
 
 (With inputs from Shalabh, Lucknow)
 
 
