Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday allowed Khatta Singh, former driver of rape convict Dera Sacha Sauda (DSS) chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, to record his statement afresh before the special CBI court Panchkula in relation to murder cases of Sirsa-based journalist Ram Chander Chhatarpati and former dera manager Ranjit Singh.

 Justice Augustine George Masih passed these orders after allowing Khatta’s plea. The dera chief had strongly opposed the move.
 
 Khatta had approached the HC against the orders of the special CBI court in Panchkula that had dismissed his plea to depose. In his appeal, Khatta had submitted before the HC that his statement was very crucial for these cases and he had given several grounds to show bona fide reason of why he had retracted from his earlier statements under threat from Gurmeet and his henchmen.
 
 Khatta, who is among those castrated inside the dera, had also stated that the only reason given by the special CBI judge for not permitting him to recall his statement was that the trial of the case had been pending for more than 10 years and it was on the final stage of argument.
 
 “The delayed trial cannot outweigh the interest of justice and on the date when he had moved an application for being recalled as witness, the arguments in the murder cases had not started. The final outcome of the case is crucial as it revolves around my statement. The final arguments may take more time. My testimony should be brought on record in the interest of justice”, Khatta had argued.
 
 On September 25, 2017, special CBI judge, Jagdeep Singh had dismissed his application finding no merits in his plea.
 
 Khatta, who retracted his statement in 2012, had approached the special CBI court after dera chief’s conviction in rape cases, seeking permission to record his statements afresh regarding dera head’s role in murder cases. According to Singh, he had changed his testimony earlier due to threat from the dera head and his goons and not the CBI.
 
 While the CBI had supported Khatta Singh’s plea for re-recording his statements, counsel for other accused, including Gurmeet had strongly objected to the application.
 
 
