BENGALURU: The high   has frowned on hospitals and other institutions misusing customs duty exemption certificates (CDEC) while importing certain medical equipment. While dismissing a petition filed by   and Kasturba Medical College, Manipal, who challenged an order by the deputy director general (medical),  , New Delhi, revoking exemption granted to them in March 1988, the court found that the petitioners had provided no evidence that entitled them to the exemption.

 Previously, a medical institution/hospital had to extend free treatment to 40% of its outdoor patients and 10% of indoor to avail CDEC. That requirement was later modified with effect from January 1, 2012, mandating institutions to extend free treatment to 20% of all its patients annually over a period of 20 years.
 
 But Justice  , in his order, observed: “Exemption from tax or customs duty is a burden on the public exchequer and to that extent, people lose their money in favour of beneficiary institutions. Therefore, it is all the more necessary that a strict, meticulous and complete compliance of conditions with relevant and cogent evidence is proved beyond doubt before the authorities concerned. A casual, cavalier compliance by a paper formality is not enough to allow such institutions to avail exemption.”
 
 In its order dated January 23, 2015, the Directorate General of Health Services held that 22 representatives who personally appeared on behalf of the petitioners, including the one on behalf of the hospital, failed to produce any documentary proof vis-à-vis complying with the scheme’s requirements. Backed by the order, authorities issued a demand for Rs 4.5 crore in customs duty.
 
 “The facts stated in the order that CDECs issued to 392 of the 396 institutions was revoked is a glaring one,” Justice Kothari noted. “It reflects gross abuse of such exemption given to petitioner-hospitals and other institutions. The very purpose of such exemption will be defeated if conditions are allowed to be breached with impunity and then glossed over by a paper exercise in the name of submitting a so-called reply as submitted by the petitioner in the present case.”
 
 
