Mumbai: With wellness gaining importance across corporates, leaders are setting an example by literally walking the talk. A number of CEOs have taken up walking as a fitness regime and are propagating the benefits of the same to their employees.

 An early riser, Vimal Kejriwal — MD & CEO of   (an  ) — starts his walk at sharp 6.45am on the Carter Road promenade in Mumbai. “Walking is part of my daily fitness regime. I have been walking for more than a decade. Usually I walk 3.5-4km daily and it takes me an hour,” said Kejriwal, who believes walking has helped him focus and de-stress. “It ensures there is no negativity in my mind and body.”
 
  VC & MD Ranjit Shahani, on the other hand, unwinds with a good 45-minute walk every day after he returns from work. “Actually, I walk at any time of the day. At the end of the day, it’s usually me and my wife who walk at Hill Park and it helps us catch up on the day’s events,” said Shahani, who does a combination of   and  . “A walk is very relaxing. When one is alone and listening to music, it helps you unwind to a good rhythm.”
 
 Both Kejriwal and Shahani have set an example for others to follow. Kejriwal said, “I believe in setting an example not by preaching but by doing. My colleagues know that I am mindful of what I eat and take my health seriously. I am not into binge eating and there is no alternative to leading a disciplined life. In an informal manner, in between meeting breaks, I share the benefits of walking and maintaining a fitness schedule with my colleagues.” At Novartis, Shahani said the ‘Be Healthy’ week helps employees in their fitness journey. The four pillars of the ‘Be Healthy’ week are Move (move 10,000 steps a day), Choose (a healthy diet), Know (health parameters) and Manage Health.
 
 To help its people ‘Walk the Talk’,   introduced a wellness programme called ‘Step for Health’ last year, wherein it provided fitness bands equipped with a virtual health coaching facility to all its employees.   MD & CEO Ashish Mehrotra said, “Over 90% of our workforce actively participated in the initiative, which lasted three months. In keeping with this year’s theme of Max Bupa Walk of Health, which is ‘Power Walking’, we are encouraging our people to join Max Bupa training camps to learn the techniques of  .”
 
 
