BENGALURU: Karnataka's 15th legislative assembly could not have begun on a more sombre note. As the house assembled for the first time, there was a deceptive calm everywhere.

 
 Anxiety was writ large on the treasury benches and confidence ruled the roost in opposition benches. But in a rarity for the house, the two sides were not ready to engage each other despite the contrasting moods.
 
 The   MLAs were the first to arrive in the assembly, followed by their counterparts in  . The JD(S) MLAs came five minutes after proceedings began. Home minister Ramalinga Reddy was seen personally confirming that all Congress MLAs had brought their identity cards and election certificates.
 
 Chief minister   as leader of the ruling party was called first to take oath. But he confined himself to his cabin in the lounge for most part of the day holding parleys with party's national leaders, Prakash Javadekar, JP Nadda, HN Ananth Kumar and P Muralidhar Rao.
 
 As expected, H D Revanna, entered the assembly barefoot at an auspicious time, half-an hour past 11am.
 
 Pro tem speaker   administered the oath of office to the newly elected MLAs in batches of 10, 5 and two at a time. Aurad BJP MLA Prabhu Chouhan was conspicuous by his traditional Rajasthani attire. The initial tension in the house slowly evaporated within 15 minutes into the oath taking ceremony and the MLAs were soon busy discussing their campaign strategies and victory margins in the polls.
 
 The MLAs who took oath early and whose turn was too far away descended on the ruling party and opposition lounges. That the MLAs were not only shuttling between the lounges and interacting freely with newshungry scribes was an indication of the impending anti-climax to the floor test.
 
 MLAs from both sides were heard bantering about the 'offers' and 'deals' each of them would have got to switch sides.
 
 When BJP MLA Shivanagouda Nayak came to the ruling party lounge with Congress MLA Basavaraj Hitnal, C T Ravi chided Nayak, saying "You are a waste Nayak. You failed to bring Hitnal to our side."
 
 "Look at him, how can I lift him?" Nayak said pointing at the well-built Hitnal. Raju Gowda, Surpur MLA who joined the trio, said "We could have lifted Hitnal had the party sent both Nayak and me."
 
 Only police had access to   after 10am. Government officials who did not turn up earlier were barred from entering the premises. The media too wasn't allowed to enter the seat of power after 10am.
 
