MANGALURU: Pained by the social fabric in Dakshina Kannada district being ripped apart time and again, Dharmasthala Dharmadhikari D Veerendra Heggade has called for a dialogue between communities to sort out issues, than to take a confrontational stand.

 In a statement, he said it has been seen that when a person from one religion gets murdered or assaulted, it immediately gets a violent response, which is disturbing, and does not behove the communal amity of the district.
 
 Heggade said decisions taken in haste and without rationale are reasons for these incidents escalating. “We have to learn to maintain communal harmony from these incidents, when the victims were assisted by people from other religions. Good Samaritans have responded to the situation without looking at the victims’ religion,’’ he said. He called upon the youth to show restraint, and to do away with the atmosphere of doubt and suspicion among different religions.
 
 Meanwhile,   has been rife with messages of communal amity. One person wrote: “This is supposed to be a land of the intelligent. Stop fighting. Please understand that if something untoward happens, it is not the politicians who will come to your help, but your neighbour, who is from a different religion. The government will wash its hands of the issue by doling out compensation, but does it know the value of a life? Some sociopaths create mayhem on the social media. Have you ever seen anybody wanting blood from a donor from a particular community? Has any Hindu not felt joy when Zaheer Khan won a match for India or any Muslim not felt sad when Rahul Dravid hit a century but India lost the match? Do you watch movies according to the actors religion? Please be humans first,” the message urged.
 
 A sonnet written by Jaleel Mukri, ‘wanted a cadaver,’ on the present situation, also received many plaudits. Jaleel Mukri is an NRI working in Saudi Arabia. The sonnet reflects the sombre mood ,saying that politicians wanted a cadaver during the polls – does not matter whether a Hindu or a Muslim—to make people forget about their poll promises.
 
 
