BENGALURU: A high-voltage ‘star war’ is breaking out in Sandalwood as poll temperature soars across the state: Movie stars, who were hitherto roped in mostly to add colour to election campaigns, are now indulging in slanging matches.

 The latest showdown was on Monday, in the backdrop of actress-turned-Congress’s social media cell head Ramya’s potshots at Prime Minister Narendra Modi; actors-cumpoliticians owing allegiance to the   slammed the actress. “This is just the beginning of the battle in the film fraternity, it will intensify in the coming days,” a veteran filmmaker pointed out.
 
 Film industry sources said at least half-a-dozen film actors plan to jump into the fray for polls scheduled in April-May. “This time, the situation is different with many stars considering politics as a serious career option and getting ready to take the plunge,” said Sa Ra Govindu, president, Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce.
 
 
  
  
 
 The ruling   has already roped in film stars Malashri, Sadhu Kokila and   to work actively with members of the party’s campaign committee. In fact, the party already has Umashree, Ambareesh, Ramya and Jayamala from the industry working for it. Some, like Bhavana Ramanna, are confident of getting a party ticket and have started scouting for constituencies. “The party wants me to contest from Chitradurga, I am getting ready for it,” said Bhavana.
 
 Congress sources said the party is having discussions with some more movie personalities and the names would be revealed soon.
 
 The BJP is not lagging behind. While actor Tara is aggressive in putting the government on the mat in the legislative council, former legislatorcum-actor Jaggesh’s dialoguedelivery on social media turf has been strong. Kannada film producer and actor Ganesh’s wife Shilpa also represents Sandalwood in the party. Teleserial actor and BJP spokesperson Malavika Avinash has started the groundwork in Krishna Raja assembly constituency in Mysuru. “We have family roots in Krishna Raja and that’s the reason I chose to contest from this seat,” she said.
 
 The JD(S) is banking on former CM H D Kumaraswamy’s son Nikhil, whose third movie is in the offing. A few stars like Upendra and Prakash Rai have been making political comments in the runup to the polls. In fact, Upendra launched his own political outfit ‘Karnataka Pragnyavantha Janata Paksha’ (KPJP) and is roping in support. Rai has not made public his political roadmap, though he’s been making scathing attacks on Modi’s policies and actions. Actor Sudeep also contemplated the political plunge but has remained silent so far.
 
 
