NAGPUR: The state government has decided that from now on transmission lines passing through tiger reserves, national parks and sanctuaries will be done through underground cabling only.

 The decision taken by the state board for wildlife (SBWL) and approved by its chairman,   Devendra Fadnavis reflects in the minutes of the 13th meeting held on January 31. The minutes were released only a couple of days ago.
 
 The   has been told to ensure and incorporate laying of new transmission lines through underground cables in their future proposals. Moreover, the power company has been told to explore feasibility of converting existing   transmission lines to underground cables in a phased manner.
 
 The board reviewed rampant cases of poaching of tiger and other wildlife due to electrocution and remedial measures to be taken jointly by the forest department and other government departments. The government has asked MSEDCL to submit a feasibility study report in 3 months. However, the report has not been submitted yet.
 
 Bhalchandra Khandait, MSEDCL’s regional director, Nagpur, says, “I received the minutes two days ago. It is practically impossible to shift overhead lines underground. If forest area alone is considered, it would cost around Rs 500-600 crores.”
 
 On plan to shut power during night hours near forested villages, Khandait says that too is difficult as power is transmitted through same feeders for farms and residences.
 
 “We can fix air bunch cables in vulnerable patches of forest department where animals are electrocuted,” Khandait said. 
 
 According to Bilal Habib, scientist with WII, Dehradun, 2,404 villages in over 37,000 sqkm area are sensitive to electrocution. The board also discussed use of   energy. 
 
 “Expert members explained the need to encourage people to use solar energy on their farm bunds in sensitive areas. In Dr Shyamaprasad Jan Van Yojna there is provision to encourage use of non-conventional energy sources to reduce man-animal conflict. Hence, it is possible to provide solar fencing on low cost to farmers as being done in villages around  ,” said Bandu Dhotre, SBWL member.
 
 The forest department has been asked to take necessary action in three months. Also, in villages where there is no electricity, solar irrigation pumps in farms and villages for drinking water supply should be made.
 
 In forest areas in Vidarbha region where there are no electric transmission lines, respective departments have been asked to provide solar energy and automated equipment like solar homelights, street lights and pumps for farming.
 
 The government has directed target for solar pumps should be increased in such villages so that their demand of electricity and irrigation facility is fulfilled.
 
 For this work, respective district collector should make available government land within 3 months near these villages to establish basic solar energy facilities, said the report.
 
 
