Coimbatore: Researchers at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) have identified a root-knot nematode – a microscopic round worm that causes saplings to wilt – in citrus plants for the first time in Tamil Nadu. A few months back, a farmer had brought a wilted citrus sapling hoping to find the reason, professor at the nematology department at TNAU K Poornima said. “When I checked the root, it looked as if it had galls. Galls are knot-like structures caused by root-knot nematodes. But, we were not sure about it as root-knot nematodes in citrus were not present in Tamil Nadu,” she said. Poornima visited the farm and dug up a live sapling. “We found that the sapling was infected with root-knot nematodes. In the past few months, we found instances of root-knot nematode infections in citrus saplings in farms in Coimbatore and Erode districts. Researchers here are working on battling the nematode,” she said. Nematodes enter the roots of fruit, vegetable and flower saplings through the root tip. After two to three months, they breed and block the conducting vessels of the plant, causing it to wilt. Root-knot nematodes, meanwhile, enter the roots, where they lay eggs, which form knot-like structures that bulge out of the root. The knots then rupture and the young nematodes go in search of new roots. Nematodes mainly affect fruit and vegetable crops such as tomato, guava, pomegranate, cucumber and capsicum, said Poornima. “Tomato and cucumber plants are the major victims,” she added. “There are also instances where there have been heavy losses in guava,” said the head of nematology department, S Subramanian. “Over the past four to five years, several new varieties of guava were introduced in the state. They have been affected by nematodes and have caused severe losses to farmers,” he added. The annual loss in fruit crops due to nematodes was pegged at 13%, he said.  The department has been researching how to tackle the nematode menace and also has been helping farmers and nursery owners. Beneficial fungi such as Paecilomyces and Pochonia are known to inhibit nematode growth, said Poornima. “We have been producing the fungi and selling it to farmers. The fungi can be mixed with soil or the saplings can be dipped in the liquid formation of the fungi before being planted. Also, simple methods such as exposing the soil to sunlight will kill nematodes,” she added. The department has been conducting awareness workshops on nematodes for both farmers and nursery owners, Poornima added.