New Delhi: The   has   a city-wide   of   de-addiction centres to   if people are being   against their will in the name of  .

 In an order made public on Friday, a bench of justices S Muralidhar and I S Mehta also directed the lieutenant governor, Delhi chief secretary and representatives of the ministry of social justice and empowerment “to work out the modalities for dealing with the issue of providing treatment and care and for those persons genuinely in need of de-addiction and rehabilitation as in-patients.”
 
 Blaming the acute shortage of government-run or authorised de-addiction centres, HC said this has led to the problem of private centres coming up, giving rise to the problem of alleged detention of people, under the guise of rehabilitation.
 
 The court set up a three-member team for each corporation zone comprising two legal service lawyers and one deputy health officer to inspect each such centre and find out if any inmate has been detained   his/her wish. The team will also note, HC specified, “the condition of the centre and the adequacy of the infrastructure and facilities therein for providing a minimum standard of treatment and care, the treatment currently received by such inmates and the name of the medical professional under whose supervision such treatment is taking place. The team will also make an assessment of the capacity of the inmate to consent for treatment.”
 
 The court also made it clear that all non-government   that continue to operate, can’t admit any inmate till further orders. Those persons in need of treatment as in-patient for de-addiction will approach the government-run and other authorised centres, it added.
 
 “It is noted in the draft rules for registration of de-addiction centres in Delhi, that no inmate be kept in centres without his/her consent. These centres should not be used to detain persons under the guise of de-addiction without their consent,” the court noted, while asking the Delhi cabinet to approve these rules by May 20. “The rules should receive the sanction of the assembly secretariat as already proposed on May 27, 2018 positively and the approval should be granted to the rules for notification not later than May 31, 2018. The report compliance of the above directions should be placed before the court by the Delhi government on the next date,” it directed.
 
 Identifying the problem the court said “fact of the matter is that there is huge scarcity of government-run facilities to address the problem of de-addiction of substance users. Inevitably, therefore, the privately run units are expected to cater to this need. The delay in notifying the statutory rules compounds the problem.”
 
 It asked the counsel for the corporations to prepare a compilation of all the centres functioning at the district level and also upload the details on their respective websites. The court asked the SDMC to treat the closure order given to certain centres as notice and give them a hearing before taking any decision while listing the matter for further hearing on July 9.
 
 
