Pune: Two more   were found in a   condition on Friday after consuming chicken laced with poison, still strewn at different places in the   locality.

 Neena Rai of Action for Animals against Cruelty and Trauma (AaCT) said the dogs found in the critical   were sent to the ResQ Charitable Trust for treatment. At least 30 more crows were also found dead, she said.
 
 She claimed that prima facie the post-mortem report of the dogs found dead in Rajendranagar on Thursday indicated poisoning to be the cause of deaths. “An FIR will be filed after the police get the post-mortem report in a couple of days,” said Rai, adding that the chicken samples, too, had been sent for testing.
 
 TOI on Friday visited Rajendranagar near Navi Peth, where the mass poisoning of dogs, cats and crows occurred. Some residents felt it could have been the result of a superstition, wherein dog’s cry is considered a bad omen.
 
 The residents stressed that the victimized stray dogs were like pets to them. They felt a couple of dogs cried a few nights ago and that could have been the trigger for a superstitious person to take the cruel step. The spots from where the poison laced chicken had been picked up were almost discoloured, indicating how strong the poison must have been.
 
 Vijay Manohar Jagirdar, staying in the area for 50 years, had two cats. One of them died of suspected poisoning on Thursday, while another is being treated at ResQ for ingesting the same chicken.
 
 Jagirdar said he had never seen anybody hating dogs or complaining about them. “We heard that a couple of dogs howling two days ago might have miffed somebody superstitious,” he said.
 
 Another resident in the area also attributed the poisoning to the superstition that a dog’s howling was “inauspicious”.
 
 Rahul Mankar, who had filed a complaint with the police after the incident, said, “A few years ago, slum dwellers were shifted to the locality. Many of them are anti-social elements and drunkards. Our dogs would often protect the area by barking at the drunk to keep them out. There was not even a complaint lodged with the civic body to pick these dogs up in all these years.”
 
 Jayant Mhaiskar, a lawyer and a resident of an upscale society in Rajendranagar, said, “The dogs would protect our society in the night. I have been staying here since years and we never found anybody complaining against them,” he said.
 
 Sudhir Jagtap, a resident of PMC colony, stays next to the Shiva temple, where carcasses of several dog were found on Thursday. “I clean the temple, where these dogs would often be fed by me and people who visited the temple. I was shocked to find them dead behind the temple,” said Jagtap.
 
 Homemaker Sheela Pataskar would tend to a three-legged stray in the area every now and then. “Till 1.30 am on Wednesday, the dog was at my doorstep. Around 5am, he left with my son and never returned. He was found dead near the temple later,” she said.
 
 
