CHARMINAR: Following a crackdown on  , local police have now launched a drive to tighten the noose around those smoking in public places and thus, endangering the lives of others. 

 As part of the drive,   police recently took 25 people into custody, on one day, and booked them for violating norms. "The offenders were nabbed from different localities including Habeeb Nagar, Mallepally, Sitarambagh, Bazaarghat. They were detained in the police station and their family members were called there so that they could be present during the counselling wherein they were told about the health hazards of smoking. We also registered cases against them for violating norms in public places," said, P  , station house officer of Habeeb Nagar police station.
 
 So far the police have nabbed 57 people for the offence.
 
 "More than 70 per cent of them are youths and minors. We will continue the drive and book cases against anybody found smoking in public spaces," Swamy added.
 
 Locals from the area, while lauding police for launching the drive, appealed to the city police commissioner to extend it to other parts of the city.
 
 "The initiative taken up by the Habeeb Nagar police is commendable. A similar drive was launched earlier as well, but it faded away after sometime. If the drive is undertaken again, it'll benefit not only smokers but the general public as well," said Younous, a shopkeeper from Mehdipatnam.
 
  The Telangana State Pan Shop Owners' Welfare Association staged a protest against police for harassing them by conducting back-to-back raids for illegal sale of gutka in their shops. 
 
  Over 3,000 pan shop owners and zarda dealers gathered at the All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul Muslimeen (AIMIM) party office grounds, Darussalam on Saturday. 
 
  Taking their plea to stop repeated searches and withdraw al of the ban on sale of chewing tobacco (zarda) into consideration , AIMIM chief   assured them that the matter would be discussed with chief minister  . The protesters thanked the chief for his assurance. tnn 
 
 
 
 
 The Telangana State Pan Shop Owners’ Welfare Association staged a protest against police for harassing them by conducting backto-back raids for illegal sale of gutka in their shops.
 
 Over 3,000 pan shop owners and zarda dealers gathered at the All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul Muslimeen (AIMIM) party office grounds, Darussalam on Saturday.
 
 Taking their plea to stop repeated searches and withdraw al of the ban on sale of chewing tobacco (zarda) into consideration , AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi assured them that the matter would be discussed with chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao. The protesters thanked the chief for his assurance.
 
 
