PANAJI: Porvorim police arrested Hungarian national Nare Janos, 45, for cheating on Saturday, after he was caught tampering with ATMs to withdraw money. 

 His Romanian partner in crime managed to flee the spot in Porvorim and the police are on the lookout for him. The accused are suspected to be involved in many other   related thefts, especially in the Vasco area, and police are now verifying their involvement in these cases.
 
  
  
 
 The police said that both accused have been in Goa since January, but the respective embassies have been contacted to get accurate details of their stay in Goa. Janos did not to have valid travel documents in his possession, police said.
 
 The Hungarian national has also not been cooperating with the police in providing details of his stay in India.Last week, a public sector bank customer saw that money had been withdrawn from his account at a Chicalim ATM. 
 
 He immediately informed his bank and the police were alerted. On examining the CCTV footage of the ATM booth, the description of the accused was provided to the police. Similar tampering was detected at a Porvorim ATM on Saturday and the police rushed to the spot and nabbed Janos at around 5.15pm on Chogm Road in Porvorim. The other accused, identified so far only as Stan, escaped.
 
 The police said that Janos would set up a skimmer at ATMs in an attempt to record card details of bank customers who accessed the machine. He would then try to use different cards and the details he had gathered to withdraw money.
 
 Police said that several other complaints from customers of money being fraudulently withdrawn from their accounts through an ATM had been received by banks in Vasco. The police are now trying to ascertain if the accused duo is linked to those cases as well. Police said that Janos was staying in Calangute for most part of his stay in Goa. He checked out of the hotel in Calangute on Saturday morning. Police are yet to ascertain the amount of fraud committed by the accused.
 
 
