CHENNAI: After being diagnosed with oral cancer during a visit to a dentist in 2011, Azhagu   spent sleepless nights watching her children sleep and lamenting if she would survive to see them grow. The fear was palpable, as the 47-year-old had witnessed the death of her mother after a three-year fight with the disease. But what she realised much later was that early diagnosis gave her a second chance at life. 

 She stood at the Outsmart Cancer event on Saturday to recall her tale of survival. "I was diagnosed when the wound, after removing my wisdom tooth, didn't heal. I feared initially, but it was my teenage son's words that drove me to face my problem with a positive attitude," she recounted.
 
 The Outsmart Cancer is a joint initiative of the Times of India and the Apollo Cancer Center, which emphasises on detection and diagnosis of malignancy at an early stage. "80% of the patients come to doctors at an advanced stage and 70% of them die in the first year after diagnosis. When detected early, 80% of cancer is curable," said Dr T Raja, senior consultant, medical oncology,  .
 
  Doctors explained that detection of malignancy is possible by following a few simple steps of self-examination, with specialists adding that the top five cancers, including that of the breast, cervix and lung, affecting people in India are screenable. While opportunistic screening has been the way so far when it comes to cancer diagnosis, oncologists pondered if coming up with programmes for mass screening is the way forward to deal with the issue.
 
 "Mass screening may not be required, as it is cost and labour intensive. The need of the hour is a robust policy for non-communicable diseases, including prevention and early diagnosis," said Dr  , director of south east asia's first Proton Therapy Centre, Apollo Hospital.
 
 In order to make cancer diagnosis more affordable, Apollo Hospitals announced the opening of a proton center in Chennai.  , director, Apollo Hospitals, who spoke on the efforts taken by the hospital said, "Chennai would soon have a proton cancer centre that would benefit millions who are now forced to go to the West for treatment."
 
