GURUGRAM: Paralysis didn’t bother her, she was worried because she didn’t have any role model.  , however, has ensured she is a role model for many girls battling disability.

 The silver medal winner in the 2016 Summer Paralympics was given the ‘First Ladies’ Award’ by the Union ministry of women and child development at   on Saturday. Malik was among 100 women from across the country to be given the award for following “an unusual path” and succeeding in their respective profession. 
 
 The 2017 Padma Shri awardee spoke for around two minutes at the Rashtrapati Bhawan. Excerpts from the Gurgaon girl’s speech.
 
 Ability beyond disability:
 
 “It’s a huge achievement. I have been very passionate about my goals since the beginning and I didn’t let my disability take that away. Discovering ability beyond disability has been my guiding principle. There was a time when I was emotionally distressed, not sure if I would be able to give my children the best. A lot of social stigma surrounded my disability. I certainly didn’t want my children to suffer because of my inability. My children gave me the power to rise above barriers, and my determination paid off at the Paralympics in 2012.” 
 
 Deepa, who has been involved in a wide array of adventure sports from shot put to biking, was honoured with the Arjuna award in 2012. Paralysis hit her when she was 30. 
 
 “The first tumour happened when I was six years old. After three years of hospitalisation, I was able to walk again. In 1999, the tumours came back and I had to undergo surgeries,” said Deepa. The surgeries left her paralysed from below the chest.
 
 Battling people’s outlook:
 
 “When I stepped into this mode of discovering ability beyond disability, I started tapping all my passions and was pretty mush determined to change the outlook of the world. I was passionate about my outdoor activities and biking. My only goal in life was to have a bike. A career or a good profession was never on my mind,” she said.
 
 “There was a time I was emotionally distressed, confused. I had a lot of enthusiasm and spirit alive in me. I wasn’t sad or disturbed about my paralysis. What troubled me was the outlook of the people and not being able to find opportunities. There were no role models. I didn’t have any steps to follow. I had to pave my own path. I was rearing to go with this body too, the society wasn’t ready. About a person who talked about biking, driving and outdoor activities.”
 
 Raising Devika & Ambika:
 
 “What had bothered me was one person raised questions on my motherhood. Today, my husband is retired. I am the one who is working and the breadwinner of the family. I do all the household chores. My two kids — Devika (27) and Ambika (23) — are now grown up. Cooking for them has been given me the strength to rise above barriers,” said Deepa. 
 
 Social stigma:
 
 “I was getting hounded, victimised. I had to break these taboos. My motherhood motivated me to break all boundaries and prove everyone wrong. I told myself, ‘I will not only educate my children but help others too’,” she said. 
 
 In 2003, Deepa had started a restaurant in Ahmednagar in Maharashtra where she employed underprivileged youths and ensured they went back to college. “I gave them food and books in bargain for working in the restaurant. This restaurant went on till 2010,” said Deepa.
 
 Determination pays off:
 
 “I wanted to do something, so I started swimming. Some documentaries were made on me. I was invited to represent the country at the Paralympics,” she said. Deepa won the silver medal at the 2016 Summer Paralympics in shot put.Equally inclined towards adventure sports, the 47-year-old is a member of   and the Federation of Motor Sports Clubs of India.
 
 
