AHMEDABAD: As part of the manhunt for ex-BJP MLA Nalin  , after a court declared him an absconder in the   extortion case, CID (crime) is going plaster public places with “Wanted” posters of Kotadiya.

 
 CID officials said they are also probing a Surat link to the kidnapping of Shailesh  , which could blow the lid off a Rs 1,300 crore Bitcoin scam, which possibly took place during demonetization (after November 11, 2017).
 
 A senior CID officer said they have issued a look out circular (LOC) against the ex-MLA and will put up posters of him across the country.
 
 “It is proving difficult to trace him through electronic surveillance, as no calls are being made to or from numbers known to us. We suspect Kotadiya is in Delhi and is making calls using an end-to-end encrypted application,” an investigator said.
 
 Kotadiya’s name cropped up in the interrogation of persons arrested in this case. “We also recovered Rs 30 lakh from a friend of Kotadiya’s. The money was supposedly part of the sum extorted through the kidnapping of Shailesh Bhatt,” a CID officer said.CID officers said they discovered phone calls by Kotadiya to Kirit Paladiya and Ketan Patel on the morning of February 11, 2018, the day Bhatt was kidnapped with the active collusion of his business partner, Paladiya.
 
 Kotadiya denied involvement in the case and said that the money recovered from his friend was part of a land deal and not from the extortion money. He even said that Bhatt was the main culprit and was trying to have him fixed. 
 
 Kotadiya, who dodged summonses from CID, had faxed the agency saying he would present himself for questioning on May 11 or May 12, but never turned up.
 
 CID is continuing its questioning of Surat’s Piyush Savaliya, who was allegedly kidnapped by three persons who posed as I-T officials on February 1. Reports emerged that Dhaval Mavani, thought to be an administrator of a Bitcoin investment firm in Surat, was also allegedly kidnapped by the same persons and Bitcoins worth Rs 40 crore were extorted from him, a CID crime official said. 
 
 Kotadiya, when his name first emerged in this case, had said Mavani was the original victim, from whom Bitcoins had been extorted.CID officials said Mavani flew from Mumbai airport to Singapore on February 15. “We are tracking him,” said a CID official.“We are probing the Surat link to the kidnapping of Shailesh Bhatt and will put out shocking details very soon,” an investigator said.
 
 
