Kannada actor   is a great believer in fate and destiny, which he attributes to his elevation to hero status and turning producer in the process, when he made   in 2012. In the time since, the actor has grown from strength-to-strength, so, it came as a surprise that he had to fund his next release, Raambo 2. “During the making of Rambo, a bunch of us, led by actor-filmmaker  , formed a team, which has pretty much remained the same on all of my films thereafter. We were, in fact, looking for a project to produce, but there was no plan for it to be Raambo 2. It just so happened that we had to step in to get the project to take off. I believe   was destined to be our baby,” says the actor.
But why call it Raambo 2 when it isn’t a sequel? Doesn’t it put a burden of expectation on the film? “I completely agree, by calling the film Raambo 2 we did put a burden on the film, which wasn’t the plan.We didn’t want to encash on the popularity of Rambo. In fact, when we began shooting, there was a working title, and it was only in the course of the making that Tharun suggested we use the title, given that there are elements that connect to the first film. There are no similarities in terms of story or characters, but those who have seen Rambo will relate to certain elements, while it will seem like an independent film to those who haven’t,” says Sharan.
 One thing common about all his films, adds the actor, is that they are high on comedy, which is his strong point. “But there is always the challenge of doing something new, without repeating yourself. The beauty of comedy, though, is that it can be blended with pretty much every other genre, be it drama, romance, action, etc. This time around, we have merged a thriller with comedy, in the backdrop of a journey, which is new for me. Much of the screen time centres on a journey, which begins in Rameswaram, goes through most parts of Karnataka and Rajasthan, and will be a visual treat for audiences,” says Sharan.
 Chikkanna, who shares great chemistry with Sharan both off and onscreen is also a pivotal part of the film, something audiences have come to expect. “It’s an absolute joy to work with   as we have a certain level of comfort with each other. This reflects onscreen in our banter, a lot of which is improvisation based on our camaraderie and the situation in the film,” he says.
 
