BENGALURU: Observing that husbands who think homemakers have a lot of free time don’t quite understand their work, the   rejected a Bengaluru man’s petition challenging a family court order directing him to pay his estranged wife’s   The court said a “housewife is as busy as a professional”.

 
 Gaurav Raj Jain had said his homemaker wife had free time to travel by train to attend hearings of their divorce case at a Bengaluru family court. The high court ordered him to bear her flight expenses.
 
 Stating that his contention is “misplaced and shows a lack of gender justice”, the high court said a husband cannot decide the mode of transportation his wife takes to attend hearings. “If the wife decided to travel by air and not by train, the husband cannot escape his liability to pay the requisite expenses,” Justice Raghvendra S Chauhan observed.
 
 Gaurav had challenged a February 1, 2018 order of a family court directing him to pay Rs 32,114 as travelling expenses to his wife Shweta Jain, who lives in Muzaffarnagar, UP, towards travel expenses for attending the hearings on Nov 3, 2017 and Feb 1, 2018.
 
 Gaurav’s counsel claimed Shweta was a homemaker and doesn’t fit into “requisite expenditure” as mentioned by the Supreme Court.
 
 ‘Housewife’s job not easy’
 
 A large number of people continue (to believe) that a   is ‘free’. A housewife is as busy as a professional. She is responsible for looking after members of family and for running the house, (and it) is not easy,” Justice Chauhan observed in an April 26 order.
 
 Gaurav and Shweta married in Meerut on June 30, 2009. In March 2016, Shweta filed a complaint against her husband and in-laws and, later, a petition seeking divorce. Gaurav filed a divorce petition on grounds of cruelty and desertion.
 
 Since Gaurav filed the divorce petition in Bengaluru and she lived in Muzaffarnagar, Shweta moved the Supreme Court with a transfer application. On July 10, 2017, the apex court dismissed her application, but observed she can claim “requisite expenditure” when she has to travel to Bengaluru for hearings.
 
 Shweta filed an application before the family court and placed documents claiming Rs 32,114 as travel expenses for attending the court on two days. The family court allowed her application and directed Gaurav to pay the expenses. The high court noted that the apex court “has not limited the requisite expenditure to train travel”.
 
 
