BENGALURU: A move by   of individuals who had parked their money in   — the   which has been accused of   including celebrities — has caught investors unawares.

 One set of investors — badminton ace Prakash Padukone, his wife Ujjala and daughter Anisha — on Monday moved the Karnataka high court against Banashankari police’s move to freeze their accounts in an IDBI Bank branch in Malleswaram. The matter is listed for preliminary hearing on Wednesday.
 
 Confirming that they have got banks to freeze 88 accounts till date, police said they are doing this only in case of those who had made profit.
 
 Sources said they have drawn up a list of over 250 individuals who have got back at least Rs 1,000 more than what they had invested.
 
 Investors who made profit cry foul over police move
 
 Vikram Investments returned the promised high profits to earlier investors and celebrities by diverting the money of fresh investors. “We are looking at this as a means to compensate those who have lost their money,” a police officer said.
 
 A realtor who has been paid a profit of over Rs 35 crore tops thelist, while a former cricketer’s wife with more than Rs 6.9 crore gain is among the top five. At the bottom of the list is a Bengalurean with Rs1,000 gain.
 
 Police said the list also includes people who had wound up their investments after collecting profits and not lodged police complaints. Padukone and his family were not among the complainants and police officers said they had got their money back. Padukone couldn’t be reached for comments on the latest development.
 
 The affected investors, however, allege the move is illegal and what they were paid as profit were legitimate earnings for which they had paid income tax and broker’s commission too. They said they were noteven given a notice before their bank accounts were frozen.
 
 A pensioner, Suma R (name changed), was shocked to find her   blocked on Friday night. When she met the manager of her bank branch, she was informed that her account had been frozen on police request till further orders as she was getting returns from Vikram Investments.
 
 “I can’t access my account even for basic needs like buying medicines and paying utility bills. The decision to block my savings account is unilateral, and I was not informed by police or bank officials,” she said.
 
 COMPLAINT FORMAT
 Faced with a flood of complaints from people who claimed to have been cheated by Vikram Investments, police drew up a complaint format. It required the complainants to state their investments and the profits they had been paid. Based on the complainants’ submissions, police calculated the amount they had lost or gained. Police also hired private auditors to verify the transactions of Vikram Investments since it started business in 2011and vet the firm’s bank account statements, which ran into thousands of pages. The audit, according to police sources, revealed that hundreds of investors had notonly got back their investments but also huge amounts as profits.
 
