CHENNAI: Opposition parties in Tamil Nadu have stepped up pressure on   government to get the Centre to constitute the   Management Board as per the Supreme Court order. With deadline set by the court, to formulate a scheme for Cauvery water, ending in six days, some of these parties are asking the ruling party to move a contempt petition against the Centre for not implementing the court order.

 While the opposition parties have given up hope on the Centre constituting the board by March 29 and instead may seek more time after the deadline on the ground that scheme is being finalised, but the AIADMK government is still hopeful. With Karnataka set for assembly polls this summer, the BJP is unlikely to rush into any action that may affect its poll prospects in that state. 
 
 Such a prospect would be a big political blow for the AIADMK, already under attack over the issue. But, in a shrewd move aimed at taking the sting out of the opposition attack, chief minister   and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam have taken a “consultative” approach in handling the issue.
 
 “Tamil Nadu has been seeking an appointment with prime minister   to discuss the Cauvery issue, but has not received any response. There is also no reply to the resolutions passed by all-party meeting as well as Tamil Nadu assembly. When I raised the Cauvery issue in assembly, Panneerselvam asked me to be patient till March 29. Since the state government has surrendered to Centre, chances of the board being constituted is low,” DMK working president   told reporters at Chennai airport on Friday. Stalin had, on Thursday, asked the government to file a contempt petition against the Centre.
 
 Terming the protest by AIADMK MPs as a mere drama, TNCC president S Thirunavukkarasar said the the   party will call for a state wide protest against the Centre, if it fails to constitute the board before April 1. “The Supreme Court has only lowered the water availability for Tamil Nadu, but has not changed the tribunal order. Centre is trying to confuse by stating that the Supreme Court has asked it to constitute a scheme and not a board,” he said. 
 
 Even the Communist parties are not hopeful of a positive move from the Centre. “It is not interested in constituting the board, as it’s eyes are on Karnataka. Even if a board or some scheme is being constituted, it will not have any power with regard to opening the dams,” said   state secretary  . “There is no news from the Centre. We want the government to take the next step in calling an all-party meeting to discuss the options,” said CPI state secretary R Mutharasan. 
 
 eom 
 
 
