KOLKATA:   (JMB), the terror organization that has long been lying low in   and  , has regrouped under its new chief, Salauddin Ahmed alias Salauddin Salehin, and Jahidul Islam alias ‘Boma’ Mizan.

 “Unlike in the past, Salauddin now wants to carry out attacks even in north Bengal, the first target being places frequented by Buddhist pilgrims,” a top Special Task Force (STF) official said on Thursday.
 
 The neo-JMB has formed at least seven modules in Bengal alone, each with 10-12 members. At least five of these are based in Murshidabad and were formed in the past eight months.
 
 “We now have enough evidence to suggest that Salauddin had visited Dhuliyan in Murshidabad about seven months ago. He was flanked by several old-timers who were once part of the old JMB Simulia-Khagragarh-Mokimnagar modules that operated in 2011-14,” said a top STF official.
 
 Among those who got motivated was arrested JMB operative Md Paigamber Sk, 24. “Based on his interrogation, we raided a house at Dhuliyan. Paigamber had asked the house owner to stock IED materials and explosive-making devices. Though the owner is on the run, we have recovered four sacks of ammonium nitrate weighing 200kg and 50-odd detonators, timers, used and unused sockets, and tiffin boxes. These were being used to prepare tiffin-box bombs of the kind used to carry out the low-intensity blast in Bodh Gaya. We believe the Bodh Gaya tiffin bomb was manufactured here and transported to the site by this module,” said a senior STF official.
 
 Police sources said Paigamber had even turned an NIA approver in 2014 and stayed out of terrorism for two years. “However, when his old handlers contacted him and said Salauddin would like to meet him, he agreed to bring more men from Dhuliyan under his fold. He chose those members, aged 18, for this purpose.
 
 The Kolkata Police STF had on Wednesday arrested two members of the neo-JMB that was part of a module trying to carry out a blast in Bodh Gaya on December 19 when the Dalai   was visiting.
 
 Both accused — Indians living in Bengal — have confessed that they wanted to “exact revenge for the continued genocide and torture of Rohingyas in Burma (Myanmar)”. Police suspect Aqa Mul Mujahideen (AMM), a little-known Rohingya terror group, has developed ties with JMB, like the Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) cell in J&K.
 
 (With inputs from Sukumar Mahato in Murshidabad) 
 
 
