CHENNAI: From the time her daughter turned three, Srilakshmi* learned to turn a deaf ear to anyone who hinted her child was not "normal". She fiercely shielded her from neighbours' taunts and fought to put her in a mainstream government school. Nine years on, it isn't the "abnormal" tag the 36-year-old mother of two is battling. Two years ago, her daughter was sexually assaulted by a teacher inside the school. 

 "Everyone says I brought harm to my child by putting her in school," said  , who worked as a daily-wager in  . When her daughter refused to go back to school, she stopped going to work to take care of her. She and her husband have been taking turns to accompany their daughter to the mahila court in Tiruvallur, where the case has been pending for the last two years.
 
 Last week, unable to bear the constant threats by the accused and the snail-paced court proceeding, the couple had decided to withdraw their case. "We knew what we were doing was unjust, but what else could we do?" said Srilakshmi's husband Pandiarajan*, a mason. 
 
 It was a chance conversation at work on Monday that made Pandiarajan change his mind. His co-workers were discussing the death sentence given to a techie by the mahila court in Chengalpet for the sexual assault and murder of a 7-year-old girl in Mugalivakkam. "Someone had seen the child's father on TV urging other parents of child sexual abuse victims to come forward and seek justice," the 37-year-old told TOI over phone, his voice breaking. He realized if he gave up now, he was letting loose a man who could harm other children. 
 
 In October 2016, police had arrested Srinivasan, 40, a teacher at the   in   for sexually assaulting Srilakshmi's daughter, who was 10 years old then. The girl suffers from mild cerebral palsy.
 
 When she returned home, Srilakshmi sensed she was unusually aloof. The child suddenly lost consciousness. The parents took her to a private hospital where she told doctors she felt pain in her lower abdomen. After examining the girl, the doctors confirmed sexual assault. 
 
 While the all-women police station in Ponneri filed a chargesheet within two months and booked the teacher under the Pocso Act, the case has been delayed in the court for various reasons, including the judge's seat being briefly vacant.
 
 Meanwhile, the accused is out on bail. On Tuesday, the couple, with the help of NGO Nakshatra, lodged a complaint in Ponneri police station saying they were being threatened by the accused to withdraw their complaint. The case is slotted for hearing on Friday. 
 
 
 
