NEW DELHI: India’s appetite for scotch seems to be on a high, with the country emerging as one of the top five markets for the single-malt brand  . Peter  , the great-great grandson of William Grant, the founder of the largest family-run Scottish distiller   & Sons, said the desirability of whisky in India currently makes it a compelling opportunity for global whisky makers.

 “Although the term of ‘what is whisky’ differs in India, it remains the largest whisky market in the world,” said Gordon, company director at William Grant & Sons. Sales of scotch whisky has been through a groggy phase in recent years, as consumers had started reaching out for more contemporary American and Japanese whiskies.
 
 “The trend is a reflection on the interest consumers have in whisky as a whole and that can only be good for everyone,” said Gordon. “Scotch has to not only become vigilant but it has to ensure that it carries on investigating on how to make great flavours.” The fact that some (Japanese) distilleries have got limited availability has made people look at not only flavours but as investments, he added.
 
 When asked about the challenges scotch makers face in India, Gordon said due to a combination of labelling requirements, varied state taxes, duties and licensing, selling spirits in the domestic market is like operating in 29 countries. “It remains the ambition of the scotch whisky association to take away the barriers that make it an unfair playing field,” he said. “Five to six years ago, we didn’t think we could have our own footprint because it was a very unique place. But today we have our own office, so while it is a more difficult market to operate in, it has become more manageable.”
 
 Gordon, however, did not divulge the details of the company’s efforts to zero in on a local bottling partner. “It is probably one of those things that one has to consider,” he said. “It is something that we are looking at. Currently, we are still concentrating on ensuring that our own brands are being looked after and promoted properly.”
 
