Ghaziabad: A 14-year-old girl committed suicide on Wednesday as she was allegedly upset over scoring low marks in one of the subjects in her class examination. The girl, Siddhi, was a student of Class IX at   of Ghaziabad.

 The girl lived with her parents and younger brother in Sector 9 of Vijay Nagar. Siddhi was found hanging from a stole from a vertical rod across a corridor that leads to the bathroom of the house in which she lived with her family.
 
 The body was found after her mother and neighbours broke open the main door of the house. According to the family, Siddhi was upset over her performance in the annual examinations after she returned home from school on Wednesday afternoon. Her father, Sanjay Sharma (48), who works in the sales department of an electronics firm, said Siddhi used to score consistently in the range of 80-85% in all subjects.
 
 “She was brilliant in studies. However, after returning from school, she was upset over scoring low in one of the science subjects. She told her mother that she had scored just 22 marks out of a total of 80 marks in the subject. Siddhi reportedly complained to her teacher about incorrect valuations of certain answers but was snubbed. I will ask the school management to allow me to recheck her answer sheets in the subject,” Sharma told TOI.
 
 Police have not recovered any suicide note from the house.
 
 Siddhi and her 10-year-old brother were left at home by her mother, Rekha (43), a private tutor, who had gone to the market around 6.30 pm. Siddhi reportedly asked her brother, a student of Class VI, to go outside and play while she bolted the door from inside. Neighbours called up her mother when she did not open the door for her brother to let him inside. Family members rushed Siddhi to Yashoda Hospital in   where doctors declared her dead on arrival.
 
 “The police were intimated about the suicide from the hospital through a memo. A post-mortem was conducted on Thursday and the body was handed over to the family,” said SHO, Vijay Nagar, Naresh Singh.
 
 
