Jamkhandi (Bagalkot): BJP workers in Jamkhandi are miffed with former minister Murugesh Nirani’s youngest brother Sangamesh Nirani for contesting as an Independent in the constituency and posing hurdles to the official BJP nominee Shrikant Kulkarni.

 Brahmins among BJP supporters are upset with state BJP leaders for not being able to make Sangamesh withdraw his nomination and help official candidate Shrikant Kulkarni. Kulkarni, a former MLA is the lone Brahmin candidate fielded by BJP in the 86 constituencies of north Karnataka.
 
 “BJP enjoys the support of Brahmins. While it has not given the community its due share while distributing tickets, it has also failed to rope in the Niranis and make them support a Brahmin candidate in Shrikant Kulkarni. BJP state president B S Yeddyurappa could have ensured that there are no hurdles to Kulkarni from Niranis, ” said a BJP leader from Jamkhandi.
 
 Murugesh Nirani, who was elected from Bilgi in 2008, lost the seat in 2013. He owns a sugar factory in Mudhol and has contact with people in Jamkhandi. Fearing another backlash in Bilgi he had tried for a ticket from Jamkhandi but BJP refused to accept his plea for a change in constituency.
 
 Nirani’s youngest brother Sangamesh, who has political ambitions, had also tried for a BJP ticket from Jamkhandi. When the party did not oblige, he entered the fray as an independent.
 
 Murugesh’s younger brother Hanumanth is a BJP MLC. Now the entry of Sangamesh against the official BJP candidate has drawn criticism. BJP has suspended Sangamesh from the party.
 
 “Sangamesh is wooing voters by all possible means and he would cut into BJP votes and spoil the prospects of Kulkarni. Murugesh Nirani should have compelled his brother to withdraw from the polls”, said Sadanand, a BJP activist in Jamkhandi.
 
 Kulkarni is facing Siddu Nyamagouda of Congress. After winning in 2008, Kulkarni had lost to Nyamagouda in 2013 as KJP had eaten into his vote bank. This time, the presence of Lingayat Panchamasali candidate in Sangamesh may come in the way of Kulkarni’s chances of victory.
 
 Rebellion in Cong camp too
 
 Nyamagouda is also facing a rebellion from Shrishail Dalawai, who belongs to Kuruba community. Dalawai enjoys chief minister Siddaramaiah’s support and it is to be seen how much he will spoil Nyamagouda’s chances. Nyamagouda, who shot to fame by constructing the Chikkapadasalagi barriage, had earned the ‘giant killer’ tag when he defeated Ramakrishna Hegde in Bagalkot during the 1991 Lok sabha elections.
 
 
