Jaipur: The sexual harassment incident at the Civil Lines   Station on Saturday has exposed the glaring chink in the security provided by the Metro police to its women commuters. 

 Even though, the Jaipur Metro Rail Corporation (JMRC) launched, first all-women staff metro station in the country and boast about women empowerment, their safety remains a concern on stations and inside the trains. 
 
 More than 20,000 commuters travel in Jaipur metro daily including women. While most of the stations wear a deserted look during the non-peak hours, the women commuters are apprehensive to board the train in future. 
 
 There are around 789 police personnel for the security. However, in absence of regular patrolling women continues to feel unsafe. When TOI visited, Mansarovar metro station, the women constable was found watching the videos on her mobile phone. The entry was also given to the commuters without proper frisking. 
 
 As many Metro stations at night, without proper security, the only option for women commuters is to be extra vigilant while travelling and be on the constant lookout for potential molesters lurking around. They tell us that they avoid being in deserted Metro stations and when it gets late, they prefer hiring a cab over boarding the Metro.
 
 Kalpana Pandit , another student who commutes daily from New Aatish Market to Railway Metro station, said, “It's only because of CCTV cameras that most people behave themselves on the platforms. The problem is that police are present only near the checkpoints. I haven't seen police personnel near any of the exit points during late hours. And at night, even the guards and the JMRC staff members are present at most Metro stations,” 
 
 A senior JMRC official, however said, “The close monitoring at the stations are done round the clock. The police personnel is deployed at the control room, which continuously keep a vigil that such incidents do not happen at stations or inside the trains,” the official said.
 
 Twenty two-year-old Meenal Sharma, a daily commuter of Jaipur Metro, voiced her concern over lack of security arrangements at these stations. Sharma travels from Mandarovar to Chandpole to go to her college. “At the morning time while going to the college, I can see the woman constable at the station. However, they are not deployed in the evening. We also need more lady constables in the metro station as there are times when station doesn’t have lady constables at all.” 
 
 
