Lucknow born actor  , whose recent Hollywood film ' ' was nominated for the Oscars, had been shooting in the city for that past few weeks. Speaking to us on location at Ravindralaya in Charbagh, the   alumnus says, "Shooting in my hometown has been a bit nostalgic as the lanes in which I have spent my childhood are the ones in which I am shooting now. Sometimes it feels weird," he reiterates.
Coming back to the city to shoot a film after nearly seven years, Ali, who has earlier shot in Lucknow for 'Always Kabhi Kabhi' in 2011, says the noticeable change in the city is its traffic. "Lucknow mein ab bahut traffic ho gaya hai. But I think it’s good, that’s what you call progress where building and malls get made. But I miss Lucknow a lot in Mumbai. Mumbai mein we don’t get to see greenery, and now coming to Lucknow, it’s like we are in a different world. I am glad the locations that we have chosen for shooting are all large areas. But I must say ki Lucknow bahut change ho gaya hai, especially in the last 10 years. Gomti Nagar ke agey, there is so much of development and even on the other side like Mahanagar. It’s good, though," he says.
 Talking about his childhood, when he was in Lucknow, the 'Fukrey' actor shares that Hazratganj used to be his hangout with friends and family. "I remember   was my favourite place where I used to go and watch movies with friends. The last film, which I think I saw there, was 'Mortal Combat'. That was the last film that got released in that theatre, I guess. My mother and her extended family, all belong to Lucknow so mera poora bachpan Lucknow mein beeta hai." 
  
  Ali Fazal at Ravindralaya, Charbagh (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui)
 
 "I have seen so many buildings in Hazratganj demolished and new ones come up there, and I hate it. I miss the old Hazratganj. That had such an old world charm and there are so many of my memories associated with the place," adds the '3 idiot actor'.
 Ali had high hopes for his film 'Victoria And Abdul' winning an Oscar this year as the film had been nominated in two categories including Best Makeup and Hairstyling and Best Costume Design. But having missed the awards, Ali says he did feel a bit disappointed. "Bura toh bahut laga that we could not get the awards but it was just iconic to work with such a great actress like  . I couldn't have asked for more. Judi was such a generous actor and she was on my check list since I became an actor. A lot of people don’t really get such a chance in their life but somehow I got it, which I think was because of my hard work and faith in god. It was a dream come true for me. Stephen Frears, who is the director of the film, is a legend. He has made legendary films like 'The Queens', 'Florence Foster Jenkins', 'High Fidelity', and 'Dangerous Liaisons', which fascinated me. And after this film, Judi is my dear friend, and we still talk whenever we get a chance," says Fazal. 
 By Prachi Arya
 
