HYDERABAD:   has poured cold water on NDA government's grand plans to link Godavari with Cauvery. To overcome acute water crisis in   and Tamil Nadu, the Centre proposed a plan to link the two rivers and agreed to bear 90% project cost. 

 Telangana, however, decided not to agree to river-linking until the state's requirements are met. The state wants 1,500 TMC feet water from Godavari to fill existing, under-construction and proposed reservoirs. Currently, the state is utilising less than 200 TMC feet water through Sriramsagar, Singur, Yellampally, Nizam Sagar and Lower Manair dams. To utilise more water from Godavari, TRS government proposed Kaleswaram lift irrigation project with five barrages for utilising another 180 TMC feet water and Sitaram lift irrigation project to divert another 70 TMC feet.
 
  
 
 
 
 As per plan of Union water resources ministry, 300 TMC feet surplus water will be lifted from Akinepalli barrage, downstream Inchampalli, on Godavari and transferred to Nagarjuna Sagar dam on Krishna river. From there, water will be moved to Somasila Dam on Pennar river and to Grand Anicut in Cauvery basin.
 
 Instead, TRS government proposed to link Mahanadi-Godavari basin first. While the   was to be undertaken under Phase-I, the Mahanadi-Godavari linking was being planned in Phase-II by the Centre.
 
 This proposal will make it difficult to take up the river-linking project as surplus water in Mahanadi basin was not finalised and also because the Ichampalli dam was not ready. “We want a hydrology survey before planning river linking project on Godavari. Telangana needs at least 1500 TMC feet water and water from Godavari can be diverted only after receiving this quantum,” said Harish Rao, irrigation minister of Telangana.
 
 The state government argues actual surplus water available at Akinepalli is far less than what Centre is showing. While the Centre has projected more than 300 TMC feet surplus water, state government says the surplus would not be more than 177 TMC if data pertaining to 110 years is taken into account. The TRS government is gearing up to scuttle the Centre’s plan by raising the issue of submergence of 45 villages in the state if the diversion scheme is implemented.
 
