VADODARA/ ANAND: Ten former students of the prestigious Institute of Rural Management, Anand (IRMA) were caught boozing by Anand police late on Friday night. 

 The former students hailing from Delhi, Haryana,  , Rajasthan and Chhatisgarh, who had come to attend ‘Milaap’ – annual alumni meet, were enjoying drink on terrace of boys’ hostel when Anand SOG (special operations group) sleuths raided the premises. 
 
 According to the complaint registered at Anand town police station the SOG sleuths were tipped off the party at the campus by Anand district superintendent of police.
 
 Police sources said that they had received a tip off that former and present students of the institute were enjoying a party at the open terrace on the first floor of the ‘E’ block at the boys hostel located inside the institute. 
 
 “After receiving the tip, our team reached the campus in government as well as private vehicles at around 9.20 pm. When our team reached the premises, lights in a particular room were on and there was lot of noise coming out from the room located on the first floor,” said a police official, adding that later the team reached the terrace opposite room 21 and 22 were the party was underway. 
 
 According to the cops, those present in the party were in complete inebriated state and did not have the required permit. The cops have, however, recovered just one liquor bottle from the premises apart from some plastic glasses and packets of snacks. 
 
 The cops have seized items worth Rs 82,150 including cell phones of the persons against whom an offence has been registered under various sections of the Prohibition Act. 
 
 Most of the former students arrested belong to the 36th batch of IRMA’s flagship programme – the postgraduate programme in rural management (PRM). 
 
 Those arrested include   from New Delhi, Jeetender Yadav from Haryana, Sharanesh Badgar from Tamil Nadu, Abhinav Chauhan from Jaipur, Rajasthan, Shresth Kukreja from Chattisgarh, Brijesh Kaira from Karnataka’s Belgaum district,   from Uttar Pradesh’s   district,   from Rajasthan and Arkajyoti Dhar and   – both from  . 
 
 
