NEW DELHI: In a partial relief for flyers to and from Delhi, the Indian Air Force (IAF) has reduced the nine-day (January 18-26) closure period of   — between 10.30am and 12.15pm — to seven days. 

 “IAF has reduced the closure of IGIA airspace by two days. On January 19 and 25, the airspace would remain open and flights would operate as scheduled on these two days,” aviation secretary R N Choubey told TOI.
 
 The   had been in talks with defence authorities as the 10.30am to 12.15pm airspace closure for nine days in the run-up to   had led to airlines being asked to cancel their domestic flights during this period, with a buffer of plus and minus 30 minutes too. This was affecting over 100 flights a day and would have led to a closure of almost 1,000 flights over the nine-day period.
 
 With IAF reducing two days from airspace closure period, this year’s R-Day airport closure will now be the same as previous years. But the difference is that given the growth in air traffic, flights of that period will not be pre or postponed as there are no free slots. Members of   (DIAL) management met airlines officials on Monday to discuss the issue of flight cancellation.Airlines like Air India and Vistara said they would offer free rescheduling or full refund to passengers booked on flights which may have to be cancelled due to the R-Day airspace closure notice to airmen (NOTAM). Other airlines have so far not commented on their policy for people booked on affected flights.
 
 “We hope at least this serves as a wakeup call for the aviation ministry and they push DIAL to augment infrastructure. It is unbelievable that DIAL chose not to expand in terms of laying the fourth runway and adding terminal capacity despite having ample space to do so. The ministry, just happy with growth numbers, also let them take infra augmentation lightly and now the flyers are paying the price,” said a senior airlines official.
 
 Another official said instead of talking about development plans, DIAL should have by now made substantial progress on completing work on the fourth runway and terminal expansion. On its part, DIAL is waiting for IndiGo and SpiceJet to shift some of their domestic flights from terminal 1 to terminal 2 so that they can start expansion work at T1.
 
 
