CHENNAI: The commissioner of metro rail safety (CMRS) has given a few suggestions including completion of passenger amenities at  , as the last leg of inspections needed for authorising operations of one of the largest underground transit hubs in the country along with Egmore metro line on Poonamallee High Road was completed on Tuesday. Trains were operated at a maximum speed of 80kmph from midnight on Monday to 4am on Tuesday.

  CMRS K A Manoharan said the authorisation to officially open the downline from Central Metro to   (2.5km) and upline from   to Central Park (5.62km) is likely to be given in a week's time. “One of the suggestions after we conducted the inspections is to complete certain passenger related facilities at Central Metro. The safety parameters for passengers are all in place,” the commissioner said. “We will try to give CMRL the authorisation to operate the line in a week's time as we have some more work to do before we approve. But it may subject to one or two conditions like completion of the service station before opening to the public.”
 
  Manoharan also said they found infringement in the schedule of dimensions, which requires structures like walkway to be at a certain distance from the centre of the tracks, in a few places. “It is not so serious but we have told CMRL to correct them,” he said. At Central Metro, the concourse and upper track level linking Egmore metro and other underground stations along Poonamallee will be operational after CMRS approval. The lower track linking   on one side and   on the other is yet to be ready.
 
  As the inspections are complete on corridor 2, the team will inspect a part of Anna Salai line linking five underground stations on Anna Salai from AG-DMS to Little Mount and the tunnels linking these stations on May 18 and 19.
 
 On Tuesday, the commissioner and his team inspected the tunnels linking the downline from Nehru Park station to Central Metro via Egmore metro station. Several critical systems like tracks, tunnel ventilation, over-head equipment (OHE), civil and operational and system reqdiness among others were inspected.
 
  The team later visited the Operational Control Centre (OCC) at CMRL Admin building,   to check the integration of the entire system. CMRL officials said the CMRS team inspected all stations linking the upline from Shenoy Nagar to Central metro and associated tunnels on Monday.
 
  Once Central metro is open, commuters will be able to board a train to CMBT or a direct train to the airport.
 
 
