TIRUPUR: The   (ADB) officials have expressed satisfaction over the feasibility of Tirupur corporation’s fourth water scheme-cum-water supply improvement scheme as well as extension of underground drainage system, for which the bank is expected to provide a combined assistance worth Rs 530 crore.
 
 A two-member ADB team, along with the   urban infrastructure financial services (Tnuifsl) authorities, had inspected the proposed plans here for two days since Thursday.
 
 The fourth water scheme and water supply improvement scheme (Wsis) were aimed at solving drinking water shortage in the city. The projects would cost Rs 993.74 crore and Rs 250 crore respectively. While 30% of works for Wsis, expected to improve drinking water distribution system in annexed wards, has completed, the civic body had submitted the final detailed project report (DPR) of the fourth water scheme recently.
 
 Under the extension of UGD system scheme, the corporation will provide UGD system to 31 wards in addition to the existing 19 wards at a cost of Rs 525 crore. The state-level technical committee had approved the schemes on March 20. The schemes, slotted under the central government’s Amrut scheme, would get 50% financial contribution from the centre and 20% from the state government respectively. The remaining 30% of the funds were proposed to be loaned from ADB.
 
 The ADB team inspected the sites where the projects will be implemented. The officials also had four sittings with the civic body officials at the corporation office. “We are happy with the feasibilities of the projects and we wanted to suggest only a few changes in the proposed plans. In case of the fourth water scheme, it is vital to have a well-versed plan to bring drinking water to the city. But, it will be equally important to ensure the civic body has efficient water distribution system. The civic body should maintain water audit report and save water as much as possible,” an ADB official said.
 
 “The 15-MLD capacity sewage treatment plant at S Periyapalayam is excellent and the corporation can develop two additional plants, planned in the same site as well as in   under the new scheme with the same technology,” he added.
 
 Corporation commissioner   told TOI that the the schemes will solve city’s water problems till 2050. “Earlier, the Japan International Co-operation Bank (JICA) had made financial contribution for a project when the city was a municipality. Now, we are seeking Rs 530 crore from ADB, which has given a positive response. The projects are likely to get administrative sanctions within a few weeks,” he said.
 
 
