PUNE: Senior   minister   has caused embarrassment to the Fadanvis government by saying the "government will change next year" and for this reason those who plan to get any work done from this government must rigorously follow up on their demands.

 A video in which Bapat is seen making the controversial statement at a pomegranate farmers' meet in Pune on January 6 went viral on Thursday, and messages "congratulating" him for the "bold" statement were widely circulated on social media.
 
 " Ek varshanantar sarkar badalnar aahe, kay ghyayache asel tar attach amchya pathi-magey laga (Whatever you want, seek it now because the government will change next year)," Bapat said.
 
 Bapat assured the pomegranate farmers he would hold detailed discussions with them over their various demands by the end of this month and would then follow up by organising another meeting with them in Mumbai along with the chief minister and the state agriculture minister.
 
 He added, "I will not discuss what is going to happen next at this forum, but I know what is going to happen."
 
 While the Congress and NCP pounced on the opportunity to take a dig at the Fadanvis government by lauding Bapat for making everyone know what the "ground reality" was, the saffron alliance partner   too hailed the minister for "speaking the truth."
 
 Bapat, a six-time MLA from Pune, is the cabinet minister for food and civil supplies, consumer protection, food and drug administration and parliamentary affairs. He is also guardian minister of Pune. His statement has also shocked his supporters in Pune.
 
 State finance minister   told TOI on Thursday, "I have spoken with Bapat about the issue. What he said was aimed at ensuring that people follow up their demands and work is speeded up. Our party chief Amit Shah has said the BJP will be in power for the next 50 years."
 
 Bapat could not be reached over the phone. The spokesperson of his public relations agency told TOI they too were unable to connect with him.
 
 Sena MP Sanjay Raut told TOI, "Bapat is a true Punekar. He is from RSS background and will not lie. What was in his heart sprang to his lips."
 
 Senior Congress leader and former chief minister Prithviraj Chavan told TOI, "I have spoken with many state ministers. Bapat has dared to speak in public. But privately, most ministers admit that they feel depressed. They know their party will lose the next election in Maharashtra due to the growing unrest among people over the government's failure to create new jobs and bring new investments."
 
 NCP leader  , while speaking to a Marathi news channel, said, "I welcome Bapat's statement. He is the only leader in the BJP who is aware of the ground reality."
 
 Sanjay Kakade, BJP Rajya Sabha MP from Pune, said, "I do not know on what basis Bapat said this. We have done very good work in the state and I am certain that we will get re-elected."
 
 Kakade had also courted controversy when he had said the BJP would not win the Gujarat election. Bapat's supporters had sought action against Kakade. He then apologized.
 
 On whether he or his supporters would do the same thing to Bapat, Kakade said, "Bapat is a minister in the cabinet and it is the CM's prerogative to take a call in such matters. I have not made such a demand."
 
 The BJP's Pune unit chief Yogesh Gogawale told TOI that he has not received any complaint from party workers seeking action against Bapat. "I have not met Bapat and I am not aware about what he said," he added.
 
