GURGAON:   (NGT) on Wednesday vacated the stay on the construction of a treatment plant for construction & demolition (C&D) waste in  . The court also directed   to ensure that construction work of the plant starts only after all requisite permissions were obtained from all departments concerned, according to Construction and Demolition Waste Management Rules, 2016.

 MCG officials called the NGT move a great relief. Hearing a petition by a Delhi-based NGO seeking a stay on the plant proposed by MCG in Basai, NGT in July 2017 had put a stay on its construction. “It’s a great relief as the stay on the site has been vacated after six months. All requisite permissions have already been taken by the concessioner and anything else required will also be obtained,” said Sudhir Chauhan, MCG senior town planner.
 
 Green activists, though, said the move would disturb winter migratory birds that have already flown into the wetland. “Any kind of construction in the wetland will disturb the migratory birds. Any commitment to the environment that the C&D plant presumably represents, should cover all living creatures, including the birds that are already a part of the area,” said   (DBF).
 
 The petition was filed by DBF in June 2017, after MCG had granted permission for the plant in a plot of over 3.5 acres in Basai. On December 14, NGT had directed the petitioner to file an application with the   government to declare Basai a wetland. Earlier, Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change had pulled up the state government for not taking any steps to identify and classify wetlands, including Basai. 
 
 DBF had claimed the area remains submerged under water for most of the year and is an important habitat for migratory birds. Over 200 species of birds, including Sarus Crane, Flamingos, Black Francolin and Black-necked stork, visit the Basai wetland. The NGO had also submitted six photographs to NGT, showing 900 acres of Basai as wetland.
 
 In May 2017, MCG had granted permission to a construction company to set up a C&D waste management plant in Basai, which is expected to treat over 500 tonnes of waste daily. 
 
 The next hearing in the case is scheduled for February 20.
 
 
