PALAKKAD: The scheduled caste and scheduled tribes special court,  , on Sunday remanded all the 16 accused arrested in connection with the lynching of  , a tribal youth from Chindakki, Mukkali on Thursday, in judicial custody till March 9.

 The accused were brought from the Agali police station to the court under heavy police security as a huge crowd had assembled near the court premises.
 
 Those remanded are Hussein, 50, son of Mohammed of Pakkulam, Thavalam; Marakkar, 33, son of Uneer; Shamsudeen, 34, son of Mohammed; Radhakrishnan, 34, son of Balan;  , 34, son of Sayeed Mohammed; Ubaid, 25, son of Ummar; Najeed, 33, son of Latheef; Baijumon, 49, son of Ayyappankutty; Abdul Kareem, 48, son of Thajudeen; Sajeev, 30, son of Raveendranath (all residents of Mukkali); Satheesh, 31, son of Govindan; Harish, 34, son of Sivaraman; Biju, 30, son of Sivaraman; Muneer, 28, son of Latheef (all residents of Kallamala), Aneesh, 30, son of Rajagopal, Kakkupadi and Abubekar, 31, son of Mohammed, Aanamooli.
 
 Five of the accused were arrested on Friday and the rest on Saturday. Madhu, 27, a mentally-unsound man, who was mostly living in forests, was violently attacked by the accused alleging that he had stolen food. Though police took Madhu, who was handed over to them after being beaten up, to a nearby hospital, he was declared brought dead. The brutal lynching of Madhu had created an uproar, especially in the social media.
 
 All those remanded have been slapped with charges of murder. Cases have also been registered against them under the SC\ST Atrocities Act and Kerala Forest Act, police said.
 
 
 Meanwhile, minister for SC/ST welfare A K Balan, who visited the house of Madhu, handed over a cheque for Rs 4.25 lakh as an urgent relief to the youth’s mother on Sunday. The minister said that a total of Rs 18.25 lakh compensation, including the Rs 10 lakh announced by the chief minister on Saturday, will be given to Madhu’s kin.
 
 He said that a special prosecutor will be appointed to conduct the case.
 
 The minister also promised to construct   road soon. He said that a cultural complex will be constructed at Chindakki for the 17 Kurumba tribal hamlets.
 
 Former chief minister Oommen Chandy also visited the mother of the deceased and demanded the government not to spare everyone involved in the brutal murder. He said that the incident brought shame on Kerala society and the government should take stern action to prevent such incidents.
 
 
 
 
