Ghaziabad: One of the main objectives of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) is to save as many human lives as possible in the aftermath of a mishap in the shortest possible time. But the efforts of NDRF responders would go in vain to a large extent, especially where there are collapsed structures, if they were left to conduct search and rescue operations sans their canine partners. In fact, officials feel the search and rescue missions are not possible without them.

 “Dogs are an integral part of the rescue teams. Human capabilities are limited in a disaster situation. You need to quickly locate where people are trapped. Then only can you launch the rescue operation. We cannot even think about the existence of search and rescue teams sans the dog squad. They accompany us on every mission, be it a Tsunami or the earthquake in Japan in 2011 or the Nepal earthquake in 2015 or the Uttarakhand cloudburst in 2013 or recent train accidents in Kanpur, Muzaffarnagar and other places. At every site, they have saved scores of lives,” says P K Srivastava, commandant of 8th battalion of NDRF.
 
 The 8th battalion of NDRF, headquartered at Ghaziabad’s Govindpuram, has a dog squad of 15 highly-trained canines, who specialise in locating live victims who are trapped under rubble. With their high sense of smell and specific training, one bark is enough for their handlers to launch a rescue operation at the site identified by them.
 
 NDRF officials say that a lot goes in training a dog and making it a part of the rescue team. “They are brought in here between 45 and 60 days after their birth and soon, their training starts. First, they are given basic obedience training, and after a few months, the trade training (search and rescue in this case) starts. Till the time they are part of the service (8-10 years), they lead the life of a soldier and follow a strict training regime. They, along with their handlers, practice for at least four hours each day,” said Ravinder Singh, head constable and dog trainer of NDRF canine squad. 
 
 The force spends around Rs 7,000 per month on each dog. The   live in air-conditioned kennels in the campus and undergo rigorous training for over a year before they become ready for rescue missions. For every dog, there is a handler and an assistant handler. They are mostly fed branded dog food but are also given chicken, mutton, milk and other food items in ample amount.
 
 A dog and its trainer share a very deep bond and even the latter’s hand movement is enough for the canine to read instructions and follow suit. 
 
 Of the 15 dogs in Govindpuram, 11 are Labradors and four German Shepherds. There is only one female in the team – Ruby, a labrador. Two of the star performers, Don and Bhupi, aged around 11 years, have earned accolades and recognition for their contributions and are on the verge of retirement, even as the force plans to induct 4-6 new canines this year. 
 
 The maximum deployment for the 8th battalion is 3 dogs, but officials say the unit does not require more than 15 dogs at a given time.
 
 “Dogs have 8-10 years in the force. If we get them together, they will age together. We spread their procurement across the years and buy four to six dogs each year, so that at any given point in time, we have a mix of young and old canines,” says Srivastava.
 
 
