KOCHI: Lawyer Sudarashan Pillai (62) loved his job and his independence. But 11 years ago, his movement and memory was badly affected and even his friends started shying away from him. He didn't understand what was happening to him, till doctors told him that he had  's disease. He was just 51 then and always thought Parkinson's was an old person's disease. 

 On the other hand, Zubair (45), an auto driver couldn't understand why he would start to shake uncontrollably midway while driving the vehicle. He was around 38 and his family depended on his earning for survival. But frequent violent fits and rage made it difficult for him to work. His had rapidly progressive Parkinson's.
 
 On World Parkinson's Day, they had gathered to talk about their life and struggles after being detected with the disease at  . The hospital announced the formation of a Parkinson's disease patient support group.
 
 It is estimated that 6.3 million people suffer from Parkinson's disease worldwide. The   gives an 'estimated crude prevalence' (the total number of existent cases each year, old and new) of 160 per 100,000, and an estimated incidence (the number of new cases each year) of 16-19 per 100,000.
 
 "Though Parkinson's is mostly detected in people above the age of 60, there are cases in which even people in their 40's is detected with the disease. In some, the medicines fail and then the only choice left is deep brain stimulation ( ) surgery," said Dr R Suresh Kumar, neurologist, AIMS.
 
 Both Pillai and Zubair underwent DBS surgery and they claimed that this has improved their quality of life. "I couldn't sign and was dependent on my wife for all my personal work. However, after the surgery life is back to being almost normal," said Pillai.
 
 Doctors said that after DBS surgery, the patients have reported 50 % improvement in their condition. "DBS is not a cure but significantly improves the quality of life of patients with advanced Parkinson's disease with drug induced problems or where drugs are failing. It ensures better control over the symptoms for the patient and improves quality of life," added Dr  , neurosurgeon, AIMS.
 
 
