PANAJI: Stating that he is ready for any inquiry, former chief minister   said the 88   were renewed during his tenure keeping in mind the livelihood of mining dependants and the state’s economy. He also said that he did not receive any advice to auction the leases.

 “There was a hue and cry among the general public after mining was stopped in Goa. I, too, was eager to restart mining,” Parsekar said, adding that mining was not restarted to benefit the companies, but to benefit the people who had been left jobless after the industry came to a standstill in September 2012.
 
 
 
 “It was for the common man that the government had launched schemes offering monetary aid,” Parsekar, who was sworn-in as chief minister in November 2014 after incumbent Manohar Parrikar left for Delhi to take up reins as defence minister.
 
 Questioned about the reported statement by additional solicitor general and former advocate general of Goa,  , saying he had advised the government to auction mining leases, Parsekar said he did not, at any stage, defy advice given by any authority.
 
 “Which government did he advice? I can clearly state that I have never overruled advice given by either chief secretary, secretary mines or director or learned advocate general,” he said.
 
 If there was any such advice given by former advocate general, the former CM said, “It would be part of the records.” The then government had formed a policy about renewal of mining leases and had gone ahead with it after informing the high court, he said.
 
 If the Supreme Court set aside the decision of the lower court, what can we do, Parsekar asked, adding, “Can I be entirely blamed for it?” He said even if he had gone against any opinion given by any authority, the chief minister’s chair has the power to overrule any advice given by officers of the government.
 
  on Friday filed a complaint against Parsekar and then mines ministry officials before Goa Lokayukta alleging his involvement in renewal of 88 mining leases, on Friday.
 
 The Supreme Court, last month, cancelled the renewal of leases. “Let there be an inquiry. Truth will come out. I have nothing to worry,” Parsekar said.
 
