KOLKATA: Meritorious and hard working, Arijit Das wanted to go for higher studies. But unfortunately, his life was cut short, rued one of his relatives.The 16-year-old Madhyamik candidate died while being taken to Kolkata from   for treatment, allegedly due to insufficient life support in the ambulance that was being manned by a fake doctor.

 “My nephew, a student of Birbhum’s Bhabanandapur High School, had scored 95% marks in his pre-board examination in the school. He was a bright student and had big dreams,” said his maternal uncle  .
 
 In fact, Arijit was feeling feverish a day before the Madhyamik examination that began on March 12. But the boy took medicines for the fever and wrote three papers — first language on Monday, second language on Tuesday and geography on Wednesday. Despite feeling unwell, he would start revising for his next examination after returning home.
 
 But his parents got worried on Wednesday after he returned home. They decided to take him to the hospital after he started complaining of back pain in addition to the fever.
 
 Even after hopping two hospitals — Rampurhat Sub-Divisional Hospital and Annapurna Nursing Home — Arijit had not given up. He was looking forward to the history paper on Friday.
 
 “He did not want to lose an academic year. Even in the hospital his worries were about his examination. He had even slipped into his school uniform while going to sleep on Thursday night so that he could rush for the examination the next morning,” said his uncle Shubhendu Mondal.
 
 In fact, Arjit was in his school uniform when he died in the ambulance. Son of a homoeopath at   in  , the teenager wanted to become a doctor and make his parents and family proud. He would work hard to achieve his dreams. Father   was inconsolable at the loss of his only child.
 
 “I know we will not get our nephew back. But we had to lodge a police complaint so that no nursing home takes a patient for a ride by making false promises of an ambulance with a life support system and a doctor, who later turned out to be fake. This racket needs to be unearthed,” said his maternal uncle.
 
