SHIMLA: Armed with empty buckets, residents of Shimla’s Lower Bazaar chased a water tanker along Mall Road on Sunday. Their desperation stemmed from the fact that they have not been getting water for the last six days. 

 Agitated residents expressed their anger in no uncertain terms over the failure of the BJP-led MC to provide them with adequate drinking water in time. With tempers flaring, MC authorities called the police, but no untoward incident was reported.
 
  councillor, Lower Bazar,   said the municipal engineer promised to provide water supply to his ward at 5am on Sunday. “People were waiting for supply and when it did not come, they got agitated,” he said. He also said the municipal engineer stopped taking calls when there was no water supply till noon. “There was supply in the evening but pressure was too low,” he said.
 
 Singh pointed out that things have come to such a pass that people are urinating in the open as public toilets are closed due to water shortage. “Tourists are returning with a bad impression of the hill town,” he said.
 
 In Kanlog, a few residents received sewerage water supply. The opposition Congress and   are demanding registration of FIRs against officials and authorities responsible.
 
 Former Shimla mayor and CPM leader Sanjay Chauhan said BJP-led state government and MC have failed to ensure adequate water supply to residents. “ Leave aside the promise of 24-hour water supply, they are not even able to provide water supply for 24 minutes a day,” he said.
 
 Water scarcity is also affecting the tourism and hospitality industry. President, Tourism Industry Stakeholder Association, Mohinder   said water has not been supplied to hotels even after six days. He said the state government and administration failed to take timely action, which led to a crisis-like situation in Shimla.
 
 Chief minister   conceded to water scarcity but said it is not serious enough to affect the tourism business. Assuring that the government is making efforts to deal with the situation, he attributed the crisis to absence of snow in the winter and less rainfall. 
 
 Other areas in the hill state are also facing a similar problem. A division bench of acting Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Ajay Mohan Goel, in their order on Friday, observed that after more than 70 years of Independence, not even 50% of the 53,604 habitations identified by the Irrigation and Public Health Department have been provided with adequate potable water. 
 
 Referring to the affidavit filed by engineer-in-chief, irrigation and public health department on May 16, the court said it is evident that drinking water supply to the three districts of Hamirpur, Kangra and Mandi is highly inadequate with not even 50% of habitations fully covered as per norms of the state. The position with regard to other districts is also not very happy, it said.
 
 
