CHENNAI: As education still society’s great leveller? That may be up for debate but as many as 148 of the 164 inmates of prisons in Tamil Nadu passed the state board Class X exams this year.

 Abdul Muthalif alias Khaja Mohideen, arrested by the National Investigation Agency for alleged links to  , scored 426 marks out of 500 to easily emerge the topper among prisoners from Tamil Nadu who took the exam, prisons department officials said on Wednesday.
 
 In Chennai   Zone, two inmates of Puzhal Central Prison, took second and third spots among prisoners who passed the exam. A convict serving a life sentence, Samu, placed second with 414/500 marks; another convict, Thangaraj, was third with 406/500.
 
 In Puzhal Central Prison, 44 inmates out of 56 cleared the exam, the prisons officials said. In Tiruchy Central Prison, 32 of 39 inmates cleared the exam; 53 passed in Coimbatore Central Prison; and 19 passed in Palayankottai Central Prison.
 
 Muthalif, arrested by the state police for the murder of Hindu Munnani leader K P S Suresh Kumar, is currently in Poonamallee Special Sub Jail. The NIA on September 15 formally arrested Muthalif, a native of Kollumedu near Kattumannar Kovil in Cuddalore district, on a pending trial warrant. Muthalif was at the time in Puzhal Central Prison in connection with the July 2015 murder of Suresh Kumar.
 
 The government appointed two teachers to take daily classes for inmates at each of the state’s eight central prisons; the prisoners appeared for the exams as private candidates. Prisons officials said the teachers conducted two hours of special classes for prisoners each day in the run-up to the examinations.
 
 "The prisoners took notes from two prisoners with MA and MTech degrees," said a senior prisons official. "We have organised a week of intensive training classes for the inmates."
 
 Senior prisons officials congratulated the successful inmates and encouraged them to pursue higher education.
 
 "We will continue to offer maximum support to prisoners who wish to pursue higher studies," a senior prison official said.
 
 
