VADODARA: A fresh controversy erupted regarding the slum rehabilitation project at Sanjaynagar in   area. The group that has taken up the project has stopped paying rents to the ousted slum dwellers as per the tender conditions.

 The project was taken up for development by the joint venture (JV) comprising of  , Sai Ruchi and DMC Infra. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) demolished 1,841 dwellings against which 2,637 houses will be constructed at the site for the urban poor under a public-private partnership project under the Pradhan Mantri Aavas Yojana (PMAY). The settlement was notified as a slum by the committee formed under the PMAY and tendering was done.
 
 It has come to light that the JV had written to the VMC earlier this month stating that it had not been able to begin any work on the site due to the civic body’s inability to take sort out a series of issues. The letter states that one of the revenue survey numbers in the parcel of land was earmarked for the social justice department and the civic body had not been able to give the land to the developers.
 
 A settlement Tiwarini Chaal existed on another survey number and the VMC had not been able to raze it despite there being no court stay orders on doing so. The letter alleges that police security was obtained twice to raze the settlement, but this was not done due to unknown reasons. A similar situation exists in yet another survey number where VMC had constructed houses for the urban poor earlier, but it was included in the parcel of land earmarked for redevelopment. The developers have asked VMC to clarify how will it hand over this plot with existing housing blocks to it?
 
 The letter claims that the drawings for houses for slum resettlement component had been handed over to the civic body in September, but no building permission had been given for the same leading to delays. The development contract for the project is yet to be signed between the VMC and the developers, the letter states. It adds that there is also no clarity regarding issues of Goods and Services Tax and Real Estate Regulation Act in the draft development agreement that was a part of the tender document.
 
 VMC officials said that the issue would be taken up with the developer and attempts would be made to resolve it soon. A similar situation had emerged in connection with the   slum redevelopment project in Tandalja where there was a delay in depositing rents this month. But the rents are now expected to be deposited soon.
 
 The civic body razed the slums in July and the developer started paying rent to the beneficiaries whose houses were razed. But those ousted from the slums have not received rent this month. The slum dweller along with members of the Congress party submitted a memorandum regarding the issue to the VMC.
 
 The Congress has demanded that the rents should resume at the earliest and the documents of the contract should be made public. “The ruling BJP in the VMC, MLAs and others are not willing to talk about the contract despite the row around it,” said Congress city unit president Prashant Patel.
 
 
