AHMEDABAD: He committed the crime around two decades ago but the long arm of law caught up with  , 57, a resident of Burlington, South Carolina in the US, during his first visit to India in 20 years. Patel, now Ashwin Patak, was identified on the basis of a   (LOC) issued against him by the state CID (crime) last year as his biometrics matched with the wanted person.

 Investigators said Patel was wanted in kidnapping and murder of Girish Patel, a fellow US resident and green card holder, in 1998. Both Ashwin and Girish were in car insurance business and had settled in the US along with fellow Patel community members from Charotar in 1990s. Girish had lent $27,000 to Ashwin for business, officials said.
 
 “A group of NRIs including Ashwin and Girish had come to their native Surasamal near Chaklasi in Kheda district in February 1998. During the visit, Ashwin hatched a plan to get rid of Girish and invited him for a party on February 28 with friends Ashok Patel, Jashbhai Patel and Mayank Patel. His drink was spiked with poison. As Girish lost consciousness, the accused hauled him in a van and threw him in Narmada canal near Jol village,” said an investigator.
 
 Interestingly, this murder came to light only when their mutual friend Mayank committed suicide. “Mayank committed suicide on railway tracks near Vasad in April that year, leaving behind a note that he cannot run away from truth. Investigations revealed Mayank had gone to Mumbai to drop Ashwin from where he left for the US. It was matter of time when we put pieces of jigsaw together through technical intelligence and arrested the accused Ashok and Jashbhai,” said V R Toliya, the then inspector of LCB Kheda.
 
 The case was handed over to CID (crime) in 1998 for further probe which approached national agencies in 2017 to issue LOC against him.
 
 Dipankar Trivedi, DIG, CID (crime), said that on basis of the LOC, a passenger and his wife were stopped on suspicious grounds at CSI Airport, Mumbai on January 28.“While the passport was in name of Ashwin Patak, all details including father’s name, address and picture were a perfect match with Ashwin Patel. He had come to India with his wife Shilpa and was headed to Bangkok. Once the ID was confirmed, Gujarat Police were informed and a team got his custody on January 29,” he said.
 
 Sources said Ashwin has denied his involvement in the case and claims he was not part of said party. "We would seek help of FSL to collect evidences against him in twodecade old case," CID officials said.
 
 
