
Most stock investors have earned handsome returns in the past 2-3 years. But overconfidence in your stock picking ability can be ruinous. Here are five ways how investors become their worst enemies.
 
 Fear of missing out: The fear of missing out (FoMo) factor comes into play when you see everybody and his uncle making big money in stocks. Gripped by the regret of staying away and pushed by the desire to catch some piece of the action, fence sitters and newbies jump headlong into the market. 
 
 Suddenly every stock looks worth buying. However, even a good scrip is a bad invest- Mental accounting:   tells us that people are more willing to risk money earned the easy way. In gambling, this is known as ‘playing with the house’s money’. If an individual wins money in a casino, he is more likely to gamble with it than pocket the amount. The big gains earned over the past 1-2 years could make investors fall for this behavioural bias. A prudent investor, however, will overcome this bias and deploy his money in safer avenues.
 
 Anchored to a price: Investors can also hurt themselves by getting anchored to a price point. Many mid-cap and   have receded a bit, possibly 15-20% from the recent highs. This is a ment at a high price. Just keep in mind that you won’t miss an opportunity of a lifetime by not investing now.
 
 Too much dopamine: Overconfidence is dangerous in the  . Investors who are less confident make fewer mistakes than those who are brash. Human biology plays its own tricks here. When a trade goes right and an investor makes money, the brain releases dopamine in the body, which makes the individual feel positive and more confident of doing well. The bigger the anticipated rewards, the more dopamine is released by the brain, pushing the investor into a vicious cycle. Remember this when you are placing your next ‘buy’ order.
 
 good time to book profits in these scrips. It will be a mistake if you wait till the stocks regain the lost ground and reach their previous highs.
 
 It’s different this time: Lastly, beware of the five most dangerous words on the stockmarket: It is different this time. Even as stocks rise, small investors continue to make the same mistakes. Don’t get misguided by the euphoria on the markets. The market cannot (and will not) continue on the same trajectory forever. The situation has not reached an alarming level yet, but many analysts have sounded notes of caution. Take heed if you don’t want to become your own worst enemy.
 
 
