NEW DELHI: Since the murder of   Saxena by his girlfriend’s family five days ago, security personnel have been deployed in Raghubir Nagar to   peace. But with fringe elements trying to rear their ugly heads in the locality, dozen-odd minority families living there have been forced to alter their routines. Now, its   have taken it upon themselves to maintain   in the area.

 Although the 23-year-old victim’s family has requested everybody not to give the murder any communal colour, most minority families have expressed a sense of insecurity as the lovers belonged to different communities.
 
 A day after the murder, a group of local women met Saxena’s family to extend their sympathies, said a neighbour. Later on, they gathered at the B-block park and demanded ouster of all minority families. 
 
 Anxious about his children’s safety, a shopkeeper, who has been living in the area for 16 years, said he had stopped sending his kids for tuition or to play in the evening. “There is a change in the atmosphere since Saxena’s death. Three men, who claimed they had come from Tilak Nagar, were trying to incite people. However, they fled after residents informed security personnel about them,” he said. 
 
 Echoing him, another resident said he had sent his sister and mother to their village for now. However, he is hopeful. “Raghubir Nagar was one of the few pockets where violence did not break out even during the 1984 anti-Sikh riots. We know that violence won’t bring any solution.” 
 
 The president of the residents’ welfare association, Subhash Singh Rathor, said they had spoken to the local councillor and senior police officers and had themselves started patrolling the streets at night. “We are sitting outside houses and at the end of all streets to make everybody feel secured. A handful of people who had demanded ouster of the minority families have been warned that they’ll be arrested in case of any violence,” Rathor said.
 
 Paramilitary forces continued to march in the area on Tuesday even as life slowly moves towards normalcy in Raghuvir Nagar. 
 
 
