TNN

 Mumbai: Markets regulator   on Friday proposed to allow   with direct exposure to Indian spot   market into the domestic commodities derivatives market. However, these entities — which are different from foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) — would be permitted to hedge their trades in those select commodities in which India has a large production, consumption or export share globally. These entities would not be allowed to trade in sensitive commodities, a consultation paper by Sebi said. 
 
 For example, foreign companies that sell cooking oil, petro products, agro commodities and food products in India may be allowed into the derivatives segment of those commodities here. In contrast, FPIs are entities like foreign-registered fund houses, pension funds and hedge funds that trade in financial instruments like stocks, bonds, commodities, etc. The Sebi consultation paper doesn’t say anything on FPI participation in the commodities derivatives market.
 
 The regulator has given time till June 18 this year for the public to send their comments on the proposals. 
 
 In the first phase, an expert Sebi committee had recommended to allow in the commodities derivatives trading segment entities like hedge funds (category III alternative investment funds), portfolio management service (PMS) firms, mutual funds and foreign players having direct exposure to commodities in India. 
 
 In the second phase, the committee had recommended to the regulator to allow banks, insurance companies, FPIs and pension funds in this market segment.
 
 Sebi said it has been advised by its expert committee on commodities derivatives to adopt a calibrated approach before it opens up the segment to FPIs where currently domestic institutions are not allowed. The main objective of the proposal is to deepen the   market by letting in foreign entities. This was a demand by several players in the commodities market for long, along with allowing FPIs also into the segment. However, since a number of highly traded commodities are also politically sensitive ones, the government didn’t allow foreign players into this segment of the market. 
 
 According to Sebi, the entry of foreign entities having actual exposure to commodities may make Indian commodity derivative markets more broad-based, vibrant, deep and efficient. Further, it may also add to the depth and liquidity in those commodities. “The participation by these entities may in the long run pave way for Indian markets in becoming price setters for some of the global commodities,” the Sebi paper said.
 
 
