BHOPAL: The 7th Vigyan   began at the BHEL Dussehra Maidan on Friday. Over 5000 people visited the Mela on the very first day.

 The Vigyan Mela was inaugurated by governor Anandiben Patel. Speaking on the occasion, “Scientific perceptions and views have been well expressed in Indian shastras (scriptures),” she said, adding, Mahatma Gandhi stressed on Swadeshi Vigyan. The governor spoke about the need to use progress in science and technology for successful and constant development. She said the scientific research should be taken to the common man.
 
 Patel said that such events hold an important place in Indian tradition. “People get the opportunity to know each other’s view. The science fair has been organised with the intention of apprising the common man with the inventions and developments in the field of science and technology at the regional, national and international level.”
 
 According to an organiser Rakesh Pandey, around 150 science models made by college students and professionals are on display at the event.
 
 Apart from science models, soil crafts and metallurgy also attracted the visitors.
 
 A host of seminars and speeches on Indian science and its evolution over the years will be held at the Mela.
 
 Around 124 industries and government departments presented various scientific models in the fest.
 
 Cultural programme like Manipuri, Bengali and Rajasthani folk dance and music recital also took place in the event.
 
 Some of the scientific models displayed at the event showcased the innovative minds of young scientists.
 
 
 Officials of   presented a mini model of Parasdoh medium lift irrigation dam in Pachhedaar area of Betul, which they claim will irrigate the area without any electricity. Engineer EVP   said the first-of-its-kind dam would irrigate around 17,000 hectares of land without using electricity. A power house will be constructed beside the dam at a height, which will receive water from catchment area and supply it to villages, Rathore said.
 
 
 
 
 Nishi Biswas, a young entrepreneur from  , is a diploma holder in automobile. He has invented a stove that will cook food through electricity and water.
 
 Biswas said, “I have been working for a year on this project. I poured water into electrolyser and passed current through it. Through ionisation the water molecules broke into hydrogen and oxygen and through it, we get not only oxygen, but also hydrogen which is inflammable and helps to burn the stove.”
 
 Priced at around Rs 10,000, the monthly maintenance of water gas stove costs Rs 100.
 
 
 
 
 Students of   have come up with an idea of automatic toll booths which work on QR Code.
 
 Sourabh Nayir, a member of the group said, “The project is based on QR Code working system. A commuter can scan the QR code and can travel without stopping. Commuter will be connected to QR code’s database and if commuter crosses five toll booths, the system will automatically deduct the toll tax from e-wallet. If he travels less than five toll booths then the tax will get deducted after 24 hours from e-wallet.”
 
 The other members of the innovators club include including Shivam Srivastava, Kartik, Shreya Singh, Riddhi Pahadia and Ritu Mishra, all students of computer science. It two months to them, to complete the project.
 
 Sourabh said, “Each toll will cost around Rs 6000, but we are working to cut cost and make it till Rs 3000.”
 
 
 
 
 LNCT college students have come up with an app, which will explore parking space and other sites on your phone by tracking you. Ankit Singh Pal, a member of innovators group, said, “ “We have surveyed almost entire city and tried our best to include places in the app. The app is not available on app stores but we are trying to get with google pay store.” Ankit along with other three members including Shobhit Shukla, Balram Kukreja and Akshat Jain, all students of second year of computer science have developed the app.”
 
 
 
 
 The innovative Enviero cycle can generate electricity through pedalling and the batteries will make it an electric bike. The vehicle has been made by 12 students of Oriental college. A member Manish Pandey said, “It took us three months to make this vehicle. It can be operated by pedalling and battery. Two-seatercycle has four batteries which allow it to run at 30 kmph speed. The cycle can carry weight of around 200 kg.”
 
 
