Chennai: As India’s passion for superbikes grows, high-end motorcycle manufacturers are getting into the pre-used bike business. Last week Royal Enfield and Harley Davidson announced their interest in getting into that business. Now others like Triumph and Ducati have indicated they may follow suit.  Super bike marketers say their customers are a relatively small, yet closely connected community of owners and riders so they typically plug into the superbike eco-system to buy or sell their bikes.  Dealers selling brands like Honda and Suzuki for instance use multibrand pre-used superbike dealers like the NCR’s Extreme Machines or NS.ONE from Ludhiana and Delhi to sell and acquire exchange customers for their bikes.  There are around 15-20 multi-brand pre-owned superbike dealerships in the NCR alone. However as the community grows, there is increasing interest by OEMs to get into this market themselves. Royal Enfield, the biggest player in the 250 cc plus segment, has already announced aggressive plans to get into the pre-owned market.  CEO Siddhartha Lal said that the company is getting into pre-owned motorcycle stores and plans to open 10 this year with a nationwide distribution format in place in the next few years.  Over the weekend, rival Harley Davidson also announced its intention of entering the pre-owned bike business. Superbike marketers say the current pool is now deep enough for this business to make sense.  “Currently 15% of our metro volumes come from exchange of second hand motorcycles and in non-metros too it is around 5-6%. We are studying this business and in 12-18 months we will get into the pre-used motorcycle business. We will start with the top 3-4 metro cities within our existing network but we may, going ahead, look at exclusive pre-owned showrooms as well,” said Vimal Sumbly, cheif executive officer, Triumph India.  Same hold true for Ducati which has been aggressively expanding its network in India. “We are evaluating the viability of the used motorcycles segment and Ducati India could consider this worth exploring once we are certain of being able to provide the same luxury experience to our customers which goes beyond just selling,” said Sergi Canovas, MD, Ducati India. OEMs are clear about what they can offer that the multibrand network may not be able to – exchange options, warranty, finance and a thorough check of the condition of the bike. “The pre-owned market still largely remains an unorganized sector but if and when we do get into this market we will be committed to offering used bike costumer same experience, quality and services as the new bike customers,” said Canovas. “This means perfect condition bikes checked by Ducati, warranty, RSA and finance, something that they cannot find outside of the Ducati official network,” he added. The effort to enter what is largely an unorganised market is of course more pronounced in cars and SUVs than high-end bikes where the numbers are still small.  So far the biking community is a tight-knit one with riding clubs and members in touch with each other and with multi-brand used bike dealers to buy from and sell to.  However with new products and players coming into the market — including local partnerships like the Triumph-Bajaj or BMW-TVS ones — the volumes are expected to vroom. 