KOCHI: With private hospitals all set to stop central and state government health insurance schemes from April 1, the common man – who availed government insurance– is left in the lurch. In short, they will have to wait for treatment at a government hospital or pay a huge sum at private hospital in case of emergencies.

 There are nearly 200 empanelled private hospitals in   that cater to patients under various government schemes such as Karunya, Sneha sparsham, Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojana, ESI, ECHS and CGHS. Around 10-20% patients, who go to these empanelled hospitals, are covered under these schemes.
 
 
  
 
 Private hospitals said that they are ending these schemes as the rates offered by the government are much less than the actual cost incurred by hospitals. They claimed that amid increasing costs (especially salary increase of nurses and staff) it was not possible to continue these schemes.
 
 TOI did a random check on the cost of some common procedures at private hospitals and the cost offered under various government schemes. The amount offered under schemes was 50%-70% lower than the cost prescribed by various private hospitals.
 
 “Not only are the rates low, but the amount is reimbursed by the government after four to five months. So, how can hospitals run?” asked Dr Girdhar  , director general,   (AHPI).
 
 Private hospitals have already issued a notice to state and central governments on ending health insurance schemes. While state government has not given any response, Centre sought more time to resolve the issue. “We submitted letters about withdrawing the schemes to state and central governments. While central government promised to look into the matter, state government has not given a response,” said Farhaan Yasin, Calicut KPHA secretary.
 
 Health secretary Rajeev Sadanandan said that no communication was received from private hospitals. Planning board member Dr   said: “There are two aspects. Government system can’t cater to the needs of the whole community and so it must depend on private hospitals. Due to these government schemes, many get treatment at private hospitals without much expenditure. Many are not comfortable with private hospitals being partners in government scheme as it is equivalent to siphoning off government money into private sector.”
 
 He added that there is always the fear of misuse as private hospitals can order investigations that are not necessary. “To check them government has got a machinery, they check it and say that the money can’t be reimbursed. This is what private hospitals are opposing. Whether the deserving have not been paid and harassed is something the government must examine,” said Dr Ekbal.
 
 But Gyani added that private hospitals want government to conduct a costing exercise that considers full costs of procedures. Private hospital managements said the move was necessary for a host of reasons, the main one being that state and central governments owe these hospitals Rs 600 crore in unpaid dues.
 
