MUMBAI: The   ( ) decision to conduct a re-examination for Class X   and Class XII   papers has left the city’s students, their parents and the teaching fraternity shocked and furious. The wait for a new exam timetable will force many to cancel their vacation plans and it will also eat into preparation schedules for competitive examinations. Many city students and their parents have signed online petitions against the re-exam.

 Class X students, most of whom were looking forward to celebrating the end of their exams on Tuesday, were upset to hear of the maths re-exam. “My mother’s surgery was planned for the coming days because she wanted to do it after my exams,” said Ananya Kishor, a Class X student of Kharghar’s  .
 
  
 Students have another worry: How will they performance in the re-exam? “The economics paper was my best performance and I was expecting more than 95 marks. Now I am worried if I will be able to perform as well,” said Anushka Jain, a Class XII student who was scheduled to fly out of town on March 30.
 
 Class XII students are more anxious as they have to prepare for competitive exams. “I have private college entrances lined up. I have friends giving CLAT, CPT and college entrances as well,” said Archit Kumar of R N Podar School, Andheri. Students from the school have also started a petition on Change.org.
 
 Kumar’s principal, Avnita Bir, said it is unfair to put all students through a re-exam for a wrongdoing committed by a few. “It’s for no fault of theirs and unfair. Just when some of them felt the exams were over and they could relax, this news has shocked them. I have been getting incessant calls from concerned parents. On one hand we are trying to reduce exam-related stress and with this we are adding to it. We need more accountability and vigilance from exam boards to prevent such incidents. Besides, why should students from other regions have to rewrite the exam when there was no case of malpractice there?”
 
 Deepshika Srivastava, principal, Rajhans Vidyalaya, Andheri, said, “The entire exam machinery will be affected. Our teachers have also planned their vacations post-assessment but that too may be delayed. And what if the results don’t come in time for higher education admissions?” Schools were asked to submit details of latecomers on Monday and Tuesday to the board, said principals. “The board has, for the first time, asked for details of those who entered after 10am, time exam starts,” said Mamta Bhattacharya, principal, Kendriya Vidyalaya, Powai.
 
 
