Guntur: The dreams of chilli farmers have been shattered due to Tuesday’s unseasonal heavy rains, which, along with the accompanying gales, caused massive damage to crops. 

 Farmers left large amounts of chilies out in the field to dry and had planned on shifting the stocks to the market after they dried up. However, untimely rains wreaked havoc as the stocks were completely damaged in a span of just two hours.
 
 As per initial estimates, chilli stocks worth nearly Rs 50 crore have been damaged in the district. “There seems to be no end to the misery of chilli farmers as they have been continuously suffering for one or the other reason for over the last few years,” said Guntur agriculture market yard chairman Mannava Subbarao.
 
 Chilli farmers suffered heavy   last season due to poor prices for their produce. The farmers could not even get Rs 2,000 per quintal when the cost of cultivation itself is around Rs 6,000-7,000 per quintal. The state government offered an incentive of Rs 1,500 per quintal for stocks which were sold for less than Rs 6,000 per quintal to bail out the farmers from deep debts.
 
 This season, before Tuesday’s rains, the chilli farmers were a happy lot as prices had begun moving northwards and they were expecting good returns from their produce to make up for last year’s losses. The prices were hovering around Rs 10,000 per quintal right from the start of the season and some of the varieties were even picked up for Rs 13,000-14,000 per quintal. The upward trend in prices was owing to low production in chilli-growing states like Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Karnataka, and heavy export orders.
 
 That had prompted the farmers to hold the stocks back in order to reap more benefits. While about 50 per cent of the growers kept the stocks in cold storages, about 30 per cent stock was sold by the small and marginal farmers. The farmers kept the entire last pick yields in the fields as they did not foresee the danger of sudden rains in the middle of summer. “In fact, the desperate attempts by the farmers to save the stock from rains was also the reason behind the loss of lives due to lightning,” said a senior district official.
 
 
