BAREILLY: The   found 86   (TB) in   as part of a  , conducted in the district from December 26 to January 6, to   The campaign, which means to root out the disease from India, examined 4,94,195 persons in the district, and found 2877 suspected cases. The department will now conduct X-Ray and CB-NAAT tests to confirm if they have the disease.
 
  District tuberculosis officer, Dr Sudhir Garg, said, “During the campaign, we targeted 4,94,195 persons, which is 10% of the total population of the district. The 197 teams that were pressed into service found tuberculosis symptoms in 3,866 persons, while 86 persons tested positive in the sputum test. We are in the process of conducting X-Rays and CB-NAAT tests of the 2,877 persons who showed the symptoms but didn’t test positive. The reports will arrive after a fortnight. In a few cases, people turn out to be suffering from TB even after testing negative on the sputum test.”
  
  During the drive, the teams visited houses and looked for symptoms of TB in people who had been coughing for 15 days or more. Some of these symptoms include spitting blood while coughing, developing fever in the evening and loss of appetite. As an incentive, each team was awarded Rs 450 after they found a person with TB. The teams comprised of three members each, among whom the reward money would be equally split.
  
  According to the health department, of the total TB patients across the world, 27% are in India. Of these, 20% are in UP alone. According to the state government, 2.61 lakh TB patients had been registered at government hospitals during 2016-17. Officials suggest there are an additional 8 lakh patients undergoing treatment at private hospitals and nursing homes of the state. In Bareilly, nearly 6,000 TB patients are admitted at government hospitals every year.
  
  As the central government aims to eradicate TB from India by 2025, the UP government had launched the campaign on the lines of its anti-polio drive. According to officials, in the first phase, the drive was carried out in Meerut, Agra, Varanasi, Unnao, Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad districts in August this year. In the second phase (December 26 to January 6), it was extended to 25 other districts including Bareilly, Aligarh, Banda, Bijnor, Jhansi, Mathura, Kanpur Nagar, Mirzapur, Moradabad, Rampur, Allahabad, Amethi, Balrampur, Chandauli, Ghazipur, Gorakhpur, Jaunpur and Lakhimpur Kheri.
