KOZHIKODE: A total of 3,397 families in the district are vulnerable to   and other sea related natural calamities. A survey by the   and local self-government bodies have identified the presence of 3397 houses owned by   and non-fishermen within the 50 metre perimeter of the coastline.

 The survey was conducted by the department following Cyclone Ockhi. According to officials, 2143 fishermen families and 1254 other families are living in vulnerable condition along the coastline of Kozhikode.
 
 The survey was conducted along the 71 kilometre stretch of Kozhikode coast aiming to relocate all susceptible families to safer distance, said P K Renjini, assistant director of Fisheries, Beypore. The fisheries department has long been trying to introduce the rehabilitation scheme, however, we are getting poor response from the fisher folk for the rehabilitation of fishermen families who are prone to sea erosion and other mishaps, she added.
 
 Only fishermen registered with the fisheries department are included in the fishermen category and all unregistered persons are included in the non-fishermen category during the survey. Large number of families at Mukhadar, Kothi, Thoppayil, West Hill, Chombal, Kottakkal and other coastal areas are living in constant fear of sea erosion.
 
 The fisheries department had included fishermen re-location scheme in their annual plan aiming to protect fishermen families. Apart from Cyclone and other unexpected calamities, sea erosion is a major concern for fishermen families living in the 50 metre perimeter during monsoon season.
 
 The rehabilitation of non-fishermen families will have to be taken up under some other scheme, said the official. These families could be included in life mission scheme or other schemes of local bodies, said the official.
 
 The officials, however, seek a comprehensive and clear plan from the state government to address the resistance from the part of the families living close to the shoreline. A meeting convened by district collector U V Jose, the other day, decided to seek more guidelines from the state government regarding the rehabilitation of coastal families.
 
 Assurances or packages from the government is expected to meltdown the resistance of fishermen, who are afraid of losing their livelihood on relocation.
 
