BANGARMAU ( ):  , a settlement of about 5,000 people, is living under the shadow of an unknown fear. Deep Chand (name changed),  , is an embodiment of that mortifying scare. In the past three months, 38 people from this locality of Bangarmau tehsil have been found   at screening camps in the past three months. The needle of suspicion is pointed towards a quack,  , who has been held. 

  Till a few months ago, Deep Chand was just like most men from Prem Ganj, working as a 'palledar' (loader) at the nearby grain market. But a few months ago, his body started saying 'no' to humongous sacks he would carry on his back to make a living. Continuous excruciating pain in the lower back took him to Yadav's   clinic in Bangarmau, the destination for many in his neighbourhood needing cheap medical help. But relief eluded him. Last month, at a camp in Prem Ganj to screen HIV cases he, along with his wife and son, tested positive. Now, he has to report to Kanpur ART Centre, 50 km away, for regular check-up and medication which is free. 
 
  He also has four daughters. But fearing worst, he has not made them undergo the test. "I am not fit and don't earn like before. What will happen if they, too, are tested positive? Medicine is free, but I don't have money to take six people to Kanpur. I can't even afford the cost of copies and pencils," he vents his angst. 
 
  Two other nearby villages under the virus onslaught are Chakmeera and Kidmiyapur. Among the victims is a 70-year-old and also six-year-old girl. Her parents, however, are not infected. This has flummoxed local health officials. 
 
  Rajendra Yadav, who would run his clinic from the corridor of an old Sanskrit school on the Station Road and is said to have infected many from the locality with infected syringes, was Dr 'Fixit' for the people. As per Deepu, a local youth, patients would make a beeline before his clinic before he would open it at 9am. Till the time he would call it a day around 11pm, he would have seen more than 150 patients. 
 
  "People from adjoining areas would also throng his dispensary. He used to charge Rs 10 for three doses of medicine and an injection shot. He would carry a 'jhola' in which he usually kept his medical kit, including used syringes, which he would wash from the hand-pump water," Deepu says. 
 
  Prem Ganj came under the radar of health officials in November last when 13 people from the locality tested HIV positive at a camp held by UP State Aids Control Society. At three repeat camps in the last week of January, 25 more cases popped up. “Nearly 270 people from Prem Ganj had got themselves examined at the camps out of which 25 tested positive. Now, people are scared and are not willing to get themselves tested,” says Sunil Kumar, a local municipal corporator.
 
 
