MANGALURU: Almost 25 years after the iconic paintings at the   were restored, the college management has re-employed   to conserve and restore the century-old artefacts at a cost of Rs 1.5 crore. 

 The project that began in November is scheduled to be completed within 18 months. An expert team from INTACH Delhi had documented the work in 2016 and sent across a proposal to the   management in March 2017.
 
 The paintings at the St   comprise frescos, a European-Italian technique rarely sighted in India, and oil paintings on canvas by Italian Jesuit Antonio Moscheni in 1899. According to the college management, Moscheni had taken 2.5 years to complete the work comprising 50 canvas paintings and 600sq mt of wall paintings. INTACH had undertaken the first conservation and restoration work from 1991 to 1994.
 
  "The lower parts of the work on either sides of the wall, up to seven feet in height, are damaged because of the movement of people. There is deposition of hand grease and muck on the works. There are marks left by furniture that banged into the paintings. However, tremendous efforts have been put in by the management to preserve the art work so far," said  , principal director, INTACH Conservation Institutes, New Delhi.
 
 A team from INTACH has been stationed in the city to undertake the work. Customised mechanisms have been employed, to ensure the authenticity of the artefact remains intact. The team has also set up a mini-laboratory for the purpose.
 
 Sinha said the team has been working with locals, especiall y artists, to ensure quick support for the preservation of artefacts in future. "We have received a few portfolios. We are searching for talents who we can train and groom to undertake this momentous task. We have shortlisted some CVs. We are looking for more people," he said. 
 
 Fr Dionysius  , rector, St Aloysius College Institutions, Mangaluru, said the chapel has always been an active place of worship, and will continue to be so. "We do not wish to preserve the chapel just as a monument. When people visit the chapel, some damage may happen. We are looking at options to serve both purposes in a more effective manner," he said.
 
 The chapel has been one of the prominent tourist destinations in the coastal belt. According to Fr Vaz, foreign tourists in six buses had visited the place recently.
 
 
