CHENNAI: Do not adopt the adage ‘beg,   or steal’ while making husbands pay maintenance in  , the   advised family court judges. “Avoid using such an adage, since begging and stealing are prohibited by law,” said Justice RMT Teekaa Raman.

 The judge made the observation while setting aside an order passed by a family court in Coimbatore, allowing multiple maintenance applications moved by a woman.
 
 The petitioner got married in March 1991, and gave birth to a girl. Due to some misunderstanding, the wife initiated a divorce plea in the Coimbatore family court under the Hindu Marriages Act, and got the marriage dissolved by a decree dated January 31, 2007 wherein Rs 5,000 was ordered towards the raising of the child from the date of the decree.
 
 After the disposal of the divorce plea, the woman once again moved a separate plea for maintenance under section 125 of CrPC for herself and for the minor daughter. The woman claimed that she is entitled to both the maintenance award granted under two different provisions under two different acts. Allowing the petition, the family court, through an order dated July 29, 2011, granted monthly maintenance of Rs 5,000 to the wife and Rs 2,500 to the minor child.
 
 As the husband failed to pay the maintenance, she moved an application under section 128 of CrPC to enforce the order of maintenance awarded by the family court under section 125 to recover maintenance arrears to the tune of Rs 2,66,250.
 
 Allowing the plea, the family court ordered that the husband’s salary would be attached if he fails to clear the arrears within a stipulated period. Aggrieved over the attachment order, the husband approached the high court through a criminal revision petition.
 
 When the plea came up for hearing, the judge noted that there is no doubt that various acts were enacted to enable the wife to seek maintenance from the husband. However, the same is not without checks and balances.
 
 “While, the family court is empowered to grant maintenance or permanent alimony while deciding matrimonial disputes, a wife can also approach a magistrate or a family court for maintenance under section 125 of CrPC. Besides this, maintenance can also be sought for a wife and her minor child under the Domestic Violence Act,” the judge said. However, the courts are duty-bound to assess the situation of husband before awarding maintenance and should not unreasonably pass such awards, the judge said.
 
 The court added that while dealing with the maintenance claim of wife, under various acts, the judge concerned has to adjust the smaller maintenance awarded under one provision of law as against the higher maintenance award in the other, on the principle of same relief under different laws.
 
 “Besides this the family court shall not allow a wife to rob her husband till the last penny under guise of maintenance award under different provisions of the various laws,” Justice Raman said and set aside the maintenance order passed under section 125 of CrPC.
 
 
