HYDERABAD: Giving a huge relief to online building applicants, the Telangana government on Saturday directed civic bodies in the state, especially   (GHMC) and   ( ), to grant permissions to the online applicants within 21 days, stating that if any civic body fails to grant permission in the stipulated time, the permission is deemed to be granted.

 The state government has also decided to impose a penalty of ₹1,000 per day on the official or staff concerned for the delay, which is to be collected from the salary of the erring personnel.
 
 The state government has come up with guidelines on online building permissions through a GO, mainly to delay and reduce corruption in the civic bodies.   minister   in a recent meeting on online building permissions, expressed concern over the delay in building permissions at every stage. Following this, municipal administration principal secretary   reviewed the existing system and revised the time limit to 21 days from 30 days.
 
 “Time limit of 10 days is prescribed for seeking information on documents or additional information from the applicants. The inspecting officer or scrutiny officer has to complete the inspection within seven days. No inspection is required if the site is located in approved or regularized layout. Verification of ownership documents shall be completed by the land section, revenue section of HMDA and GHMC within seven days,” Arvind Kumar said in his orders on Friday. To prevent fake documents, license of the licensed architects, engineers and surveyors would be cancelled if applicants submit the wrong plans or give false information more than three times.
 
 Officials said one and half years ago the state government introduced online building permissions as part of Ease of Doing Business (EODB) mainly for a hassle free building permissions and also in a bid to end corruption in GHMC. But the minister noticed delays at every stage, especially in scrutiny of documents and inspections of sites. Some of the officers were intimating him of the shortfall of documents just two to three days before the 30 day deadline.
 
 “In some cases, licensed technical personnel are not submitting plans as per the norms which is leading to rejection or resubmission of applications, creating inconvenience to applicants,” the principal secretary said.
 
 
