KOLKATA: Diesel, the fuel that powers public transport and goods vehicles, has breached the Rs-70 mark for the first time in Kolkata.  , too, has reached an all-time high of Rs 78.91 a litre in Kolkata and is inching towards breaching the Rs-80-a-litre mark, but it is the hike in diesel price that has the transport sector more worried.

 “I have tracked diesel prices since the last three decades and not seen anything like this,” West Bengal Petroleum Dealers’ Association president Tushar Kanti Sen said. On Sunday, diesel price in the city increased 26 paise to hit Rs 70.12 per litre.
 
  
  
 
 “This may have a direct impact on inflation in the short term,” economist   said. “The worry is that the price of essentials may see a sudden spike,” he added.
 
 Economists’ fears are not unfounded. Bus operators have barely waited for the panchayat poll results to be declared before pressing for a hike in fares again.
 
 Truck operators have called an emergency meeting for an imminent strike as they will be hit the hardest by the diesel price hike. Subhas Bose, general secretary of West Bengal Truck Operators’ Welfare Association, said: “All India Motor Congress is scheduled go for an indefinite strike from June. But we might need to call the strike much earlier.”
 
 Tapan Bandyopadhyay of the   said, “Operating buses have become completely unviable. If the government does not raise fares immediately, the private bus trade will go into a coma. Fares were last revised in September 2014 when diesel price was Rs 54/lt. Now, the situation is such that we don’t even need to call a strike for our demands,” he added.
 
 The diesel price hike is expected to have a direct impact on the prices of food items. Bengal imports coconut from Kerala, medicines from Mumbai, onion from Nasik and textile from Gujarat and  . “The fare for a 12-wheel truck’s Kolkata-Mumbai round trip is Rs 1.5 lakh. The diesel price rise this May alone will increase that amount by Rs 12,000. It will obviously have a ripple effect on everything,” said Bose.
 
 Oil PSUs are estimated to have lost about Rs 500 crore on absorbing higher cost resulting from the spike in international oil rates and fall in rupee against the US dollar during the nearly-three-week hiatus because of the Karnataka assembly polls. The bad news is that diesel prices will travel north further to match current international prices. “The benchmark international diesel rates during this period have climbed from US$ 84.68 per barrel to US$ 90.28 per barrel. Also, the rupee has weakened to Rs 67.27 per US dollar from Rs 66.62, making imports costlier,” explained transport economist Tarit Dasgupta.
 
 There is also a strong demand for bringing petrol and diesel under the purview of GST. “This would have reduced the fuel price considerably. But the governments have treated fuel price as the biggest source of revenue. This is why a number of cess and taxes are imposed on the fuel to make it costlier than what it should be,” said a logistics farm official.
 
 
