Trichy: Bar headed geese, rarely seen high flying wetland winged birds, were spotted for the first time at Vaduvur bird sanctuary in Tiruvarur district on Monday. These beautiful winged friends were found using Vaduvur as a stopover and have started breeding and nesting.

 In a comprehensive census study, Tamil Nadu forest department at Vaduvur, Muthupettai and Udayamarthadapuram bird sanctuary found that a total 138 species of birds were spotted on various occasions in Vaduvur. Further, the team headed by district forest officer K Arivoli found a total 110 species at Muthupet and 89 others at Udayamarthandapuram birds sanctuary during the census. The comprehensive census headed by district forest officer K Arivoli carried
 
 Environmentalists said that the land has been attracting more migratory birds, an indication that the quality of wetland had improved vastly since the sanctuary came into being in 1999. Many said that the marine variety and comfortable climate were key attractions for birds.
 
 “The birds have found this habitat sustainable for establishing their territory,” conservation scientist from Biodiversity Conservation Foundation K Kumaraguru said. “We have not found any instance of birds flocking to the area as much as this earlier.”
 
 “There is no history of bar headed geese visiting Vaduvur. They cannot even be found in the pre-independence records of pre-independence era ornithologist,” Kumaraguru said, adding the birds travel all the way from Mangolia crossing 20,000 kilometers.
 
 Kunal Jeet Chakraborthy, a bird watcher interested in painted stork bird species, said that Vaduvur was now providing conducive environment for these bird species. “Though they stay for about three weeks during January, the birds are spotted from October last year till April,” he said.
 
 “Improvement in the water quality and availability of diverse marine variety attract birds to extend their stay in the water bodies,” said bird watcher Guru Guha Narayanan who was part of the census.
 
 
