PUDUCHERRY: Denied   to   course despite clearing the   examination, group discussion and interview, a postgraduate student has dragged   to the court seeking justice.

 The   judge Justice R Mahadevan directed the university   (in-charge), K Tharanikkarasu, to appear in person on March 12 to offer an explanation on a series of queries raised by him.
 
 Awanish Kumar, a postgraduate in South Asian studies from Pondicherry University, applied for admission to LLM course for the academic year 2017-18 in the university. He stood third in the written examination and secured 11th rank after group discussion and interview. There are 20 seats for the LLM course. He was still denied admission to LLM course, Kumar charged.
 
 “I was denied admission on the date of admission (August 2, 2017). I received an email on the same day from the academic wing of the university alleging serious misbehaviour and misconduct during the interview and hence the admission was denied. I lodged a complaint with the vice-chancellor on the same day and a police complaint the next day,” Kumar said.
 
 He filed a petition before the Madras high court praying to direct the university to offer him admission to LLM course. A law graduate, he appeared on his behalf before the court and argued that the school of law, which offers LLM course, created pre-dated letters levelling serious allegations against him in a sole effort to deny him admission.
 
 Justice Mahadevan questioned how the university can take disciplinary action against the petitioner when he is no longer a student of the university. Kumar completed MA (South Asian studies) in 2017 and applied for admission to LLM for academic year 2017-18. Justice Mahadevan also questioned why the university did not conduct an inquiry when the petitioner (Kumar), who was a student between 2015 and 2017, repeatedly sought for a detailed inquiry into the allegation about the irregularity on the part of teachers in conducting classes at the centre for South Asian studies.
 
 When contacted, Tharanikkarasu preferred not to comment on the issue and directed to seek the opinion of university counsel A Stalin. Stalin said the case has been posted for hearing on March 12 and claimed that the court did not insist on the presence of registrar in-charge. 
 
 
