NEW DELHI: Since 2013, Vijay Kumar, who was carrying more students than permitted in his Maruti Omni van when it met with an   on Thursday, had been booked three times for jumping a traffic signal, driving an unregistered vehicle and for overloading. While police say they have asked schools to discourage the use of such rashly driven transport for students, the parents have few affordable options.

 In fact, the area assistant commissioner of traffic police had, only on April 23, met Harender Singh Lamba, principal of Kendriya Vidyalaya where the deceased Sakshi studied, to request him to ensure that the students were not ferried in unregistered vehicles. 
 
 “The safety of schoolchildren is a priority for us,” claimed Dependra Pathak, special commissioner (traffic). “We have regularly instructed school principals to disallow use of unregistered vehicles. School authorities need to follow the norms for the transport of students.”
 
 According to rules, vehicles operating as school vans have to have, among other things, a school van permit, fitness certificate, first aid kit, fire extinguisher in the vehicle, speed governor and a yellow strip around the vehicle identifying it as a school van. Van drivers are also supposed to have no record of dangerous driving. They are required to wear a uniform and badge.
 
 These rules, however, are followed by only a fraction of school vans operating in the city. Even the transport department doesn’t have a count of how many illegal vans take children to and from school every day. “We carry out special campaigns focusing on school transport regularly,” said a transport department official. “But even when such a drive is not on, we still crack down on illegally operated vehicles.”
 
 Transport department officials said guidelines for operating school cabs and vans will be revised soon. They felt that because many schools didn’t provide transport facilities to students, parents were compelled to depend on this dangerous mode of daily drives.
 
 “The transport department has provided guidelines to be followed by school buses and vans, and parents should ensure their children use authorised vehicles,” an official added.
 
 
