MALDA: Chief minister   saw an uncanny connect between the slashing of interest rates in public savings funds, fixed deposits, provident fund and the piling up of bad debts in banks, the latest being the Rs 11,500-crore   scam, to take on the   government at the Centre.

 “People have faith in banks. They park their hard earned money there. How is it that banks are giving such huge loans to two or three people when they are denying loans to farmers and self-help groups? Those who are into this fraud are getting protection. And the Centre is trying to make up for the loot by reducing interest rates on savings of the common man,” the CM said at a meeting at Malda DSA Stadium on Tuesday.
 
 Banerjee demanded scrapping of the Financial Resolution and Deposit Insurance (FRDI) Bill that has “bail-in” provisions by which small depositors have to take a hit of banks’ losses.
 
 The CM pointed to the Centre’s silence over the PNB scam when the Modi government has been after her partymen over their alleged involvement in chit fund scams or the Narada expose. “The Centre pressed all its investigating agencies, including ED and CBI, against some of our partymen who took donations for election fund. And now those who looted public money are getting protection,” the CM said.
 
 With panchayat elections round the corner, Banerjee did a comparison with the Centre’s suspending fund support to ongoing schemes like ASHA, ICDS and Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan. She said Bengal will continue the schemes with its own funds, apart from the schemes in health and education. 
 
 Later, in the administrative meeting, the CM gave a piece of her mind over the inordinate delay in the completion of the NH34 bypass running through Malda town. She also asked the district administration to engage at least 50 people under MNREGS and clean up the Malda Medical College compound that caters to patients from West Bengal, neighbouring Jharkhand and   and also some patients from Bangladesh. The CM also urged the migrant labourers to enrol themselves with the state labour department.
 
 
