HYDERABAD: The ambitious plan to build a hanging bridge across the highly-polluted Musi near   to relocate the hawkers displaced due to the Charminar Pedestrianisation Project (CPP) would not benefit either hawkers or tourists, feel heritage and social experts.

 Now that the entire Charminar area is a big ‘footpath’, hawkers can be allowed to resume their original place to boost tourism and protect their livelihood, they argue. With the holy month of Ramzan round the corner, they fear that any delay in relocation would have a severe social impact. Ramzan is the period when the hawkers in the region make profit enough to tide them over for three months.
 
 The site for the proposed hanging bridge is about one km away from Charminar. It would not help tourists and shoppers visiting Charminar. It may also lead to tension as many hawkers have already occupied a portion of the Nayapul, a few yards away from the proposed site for the hanging bridge. The Puranapul is also occupied by hawkers as is the area around the Afzalgunj bus station. With so many hawkers within a short distance, it will only result in competition and trouble, warned sociologist  .
 
 A local NGO conducted a quick study to gather the reaction of hawkers to the proposal to shift them to the proposed hanging bridge. The study revealed that the displaced hawkers are apprehensive that they may not be able to do the same business and would lose old customers and tourists.
 
 “The government is talking about launching the work on the hanging bridge after Ramzan, which is about 50 days away. Hawkers would lose a major portion of their earnings if they are banned from Charminar. Now that vehicles are barred from the area, there would be enough space for hawkers,” said social activist Jahangir Faiz.
 
 Hawkers are no vying for whatever space they can find. “The Charminar bus station is being demolished. Apart from fruit vendors, other hawkers too should be allowed there and along the   road,” said  , a hawker. They also demand space for mobile hawkers at Murghi Chowk.
 
