BENGALURU: Blame it on rapid growth of vehicles coupled with lack of awareness on the health hazards of sound pollution, Bengaluru is becoming noisier. While   topped the list of the noisiest commercial areas in the city, MG Road is not far behind. 

 
 While the permissible noise level in commercial places is 65 decibel, Domlur recorded an alarming 96, MG Road 86 and JP Nagar 81, says the   state pollution control board ( ).
 
 
  
 
 On Friday, a team of expert audiologists headed by MSJ Nayak, checked the noise levels in the city’s commercial, residential and school zones. The noise audit was done ahead of World Environment Day (June 5) to analyse sound pollution in the city.
 
 Nayak said sound pollution has its impact on not just hearing abilities, but overall health of the people. “Any noise above 60-65dB causes stress as the human body releases stress hormones. It also leads to road rage and aggressive behaviour among drivers. Shockingly, the silent zones in the vicinity of the schools also recorded more than 70dB. The teacher in a classroom speaks at 50-60dB and for the students to listen to the teacher, the difference of the noise outside and inside the classroom must be 15dB,” he said.
 
 The school zones in Jayanagar, Adugodi and Koramangala recorded more than 70dB which hampers the child’s ability to learn. 
 
 Geetha Vasudev, member, Domlur Layout RWA, said noise is largely due to vehicular movement on Old Airport Road that bears the brunt of vehicles coming from Inner Ring Road (Koramangala) and   ( ).
 
 Bhoopalan P Srinath, president, Bangalore Traders Association, who represents MG Road traders, said the situation will not improve unless public transport is encouraged and more parking places are provided on the stretch. “If a shopper doesn’t get parking space on MG Road, s/he will go around the stretch to take U-turn, and it takes minimum 40 minutes,” he added.
 
  “We’ll monitor these junctions and take up the issue with jurisdictional authorities. Compared to other metropolitan cities, Bengaluru is better. It is vehicular movement that largely leads to sound pollution,” KSPCB chairperson Lakshman said.
 
  QUOTE
 
 A person gets used to noise around him/her with constant exposure. It’s only when a person move to a quiet place, the difference can be felt. But by that time, the noise would have had its impact on the behaviour of the person 
 
 Prof Suresh T, professor of speech and audiology and executive member,  , Bengaluru chapter
 
 Note: The units are in decibels. Study done between 3pm-6pm on Friday, June 1, by Speech and Hearing Association, Bengaluru chapter.
 
 
