Model, reality TV star and anchor, Rochelle Rao wears many hats. After her much talked about wedding with longtime boyfriend  , the 2012 Miss India International is back on the cricket field resuming her duties as a host at the ongoing T20 league. In a freewheeling chat with Hyderabad Times, Rochelle talks about about what it means to be a female presenter in a male-dominated sport. Excerpts: 

 
 Firstly, it’s great to be back here in Hyderabad. I’ve always had fond memories of this place. I have a lot of family friends here and have had a great time as there’s a lot to do outdoors in this city. It’s also great to be back on the T20 bandwagon as there’s a lot of excitement here. With two of the old teams coming back in to the fold, people are really excited. And now with Team Hyderabad doing so well this year, the excitement for the games is palpable here in the city.
 
 
 
 When I first started out as a presenter in the IPL, there used to be a lot of bias that women, especially Indian women, don’t really enjoy cricket or don’t watch the game. But that’s not true. I used to watch the game with my sister and when my dad and brothers were watching, I learnt a lot from them. I went to an all-girls school and I had a lot of friends who would also watch and play cricket. I feel privileged to be one of the few women who have gone out there and proved it to the world that women can also watch and play the sport. We’ve seen women commentators come up as well and women’s cricket too is getting a lot more exposure. So it’s no longer just a gentlemen’s game, there’s a whole bunch of smart, talented and energetic ladies coming up as well. 
 
 
 
 It was tough, because people would always come up and ask me ‘You don’t really watch cricket, do you?’. It’s really hard for them to understand that a girl could like cricket. I get a lot of comments like ‘Oh you’re here only for the glamour quotient’ or ‘Don’t try to talk like an expert’ and so on. You get these kind of comments but I take that as a challenge to prove them wrong. Because I have the brains and the creativity and I see it as an opportunity to change India.
 
 
 
 It must start with treating girls as equal children. Whether at the cricket academies or in schools, both young girls and boys should be treated equally. Our boys need to be educated to see women as their equals. I feel all the crimes against women, be it rapes or cases sexual harassment that are happening all around the country are taking place because our men are not used to seeing women as just human beings like them 
 because of the way they are brought up. They are confused because on one hand they have mothers and sisters and they want to have wives, but on the other hand, they don’t know how to talk to women or how to even approach them. They don’t know what to do when a woman turns them down. 
 
 
 
 Not at all. When I was doing live broadcast, I would always go inside the commentator’s box, because that’s where I learnt the most. It’s amazing to see them explain a particular ball or a shot and then go off air and argue with each other about what they think. My relationship with commentators is like a teacher-student relationship. Initially, they didn’t know what to say to me but once I started asking them for advise, they immediately got into the habit of teaching me about the game and we developed a nice bond. 
 
 
 
 The young ones are lot of fun to interview because they’re not bored by it yet. So they do whatever you ask them to do — sing dance, crack jokes, etc. So as an anchor, I’ve a lot of fun with them. They are usually a nervous lot, so I normally try to lighten up the mood or give them a compliment so that they ease up a bit. With the older guys, it gets tiring sometimes because they play round the year and do hundreds of interviews; it tends to get monotonous with them. But the youngsters are full of energy and have loads of fun. 
 
 There’s no other experience quite like Bigg Boss. I wouldn’t recommend it to anybody. It requires great amount of self-confidence and mental strength to do a show like that. But for me, it was a great experience. It was a huge learning curve and I got to discover myself, as well as the man I was going to marry, Keith. When we finished the show and came out, we were both still in love with each other. So we felt that if we could survive this, then we were ready for the next step. People normally break up on the show but we got stronger in there. 
 
 
 I’m still trying to wrap my head around TV at the moment. I’m getting into the groove as an anchor and as an actor as well. Now, I’m looking to do more fiction-related stuff and I’d like to do more travel as well. I’m focusing on my strengths and passion and if films come along the way, then so be it. I’d love to do Tamil or Telugu films. Right now,   India is producing some of the best films in the world. I don’t know if the rest of the country has realised that or not, but there are some great films being made in the South right now and it’s the industry to be in at the moment. 
 
