MUMBAI: In an attempt to ensure that the arrested accused in the Kamala   fire tragedy do not get bail, N M Joshi Marg police took pains to submit the chargesheet in the case within the stipulated 60-day period on Wednesday. 
 
 In another development, cops arrested   sub-engineer Dinesh Mahale and fire   Sandeep Shinde on Wednesday, taking the number of total arrests to 15. The two officers are from the BMC’s building and factory department. They are among the five BMC officers who were the first to be suspended by BMC commissioner Ajoy Mehta in January. 
  
 On December 29, 14 people had lost their lives and more than 40 persons were left injured in a major blaze that broke out in two rooftop resto-bars at Parel’s Kamala Mills Compound. 
  
 None of the 13 people arrested in the case have got bail; they are currently lodged in Arthur Road Jail. There are around 260 witnesses in the case. 
  
 N M Joshi Marg police submitted the 2,700-page chargesheet before Bhoiwada Metropolitan Magistrate on Wednesday—the 60th day after the tragedy. Police said the main charge included in the chargesheet is the Indian Penal Code Section 304 for culpable homicide not amounting to murder against the 13 accused, including co-owners of the two resto-bars—Mojo’s Bristo and 1Above. Kripesh Sanghvi, his brother Jigar and Abhijeet Mankar are partners in 1Above while Yug Tuli and Yug Pathak are co-owners of Mojo’s Bistro. 
  
 The other IPC sections include 337 and 338 for causing hurt by an act endangering life or personal safety of others, 216 for harbouring an offender and 285 for negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible matter. 
  
 Police clarified that hotelier Vishal Karia has only been charged for harbouring the Sanghvi brothers, the main accused. He has nothing to do with illegalities in the two resto-bars, they said and added that except fire officer Rajendra Patil, the other 12 accused have been chargesheeted. “We are awaiting sanction from the BMC,” said an officer. 
  
 Additional commissioner of police (Central region) Jaya Kumar said they have gathered strong evidence, documental as well as material proof, and are confident of bringing justice to those who died in the blaze. 
  
 Polcie further said on Wednesday that they have added a few more IPC sections for cheating, forgery and breach of trust against the accused for allegedly submitting forged documents in the BMC offices while seeking various permissions. 
  
 Mumbai fire brigade’s technical investigation report into the cause of fire that swept through the two popular resto-pubs concluded that “flying embers” from a hookah started the blaze at Mojo’s Bistro. Findings of the technical report show that both establishments violated fire safety norms, risking the lives of patrons and staff. Police have also annexed the report on the cause of the fire along with the chargesheet. 
  
  
