NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday at the Founding Conference of the   (ISA), listed out ten action points to bring about a worldwide  .

 "We all have to think about the way forward. I have ten action points in my mind that I want to share with you. First of all, we have to ensure that better and affordable   is available and accessible to everyone. We need to increase the solar proportion in our energy mix," the Prime Minister said.
 
 He added that solar solutions will also encourage innovation.
 
 "We have to encourage innovation so that solar solutions can be provided for various needs. We will have to provide concessional financing and low-risk finance for solar projects,"   said.
 
 Prime Minister Modi stressed on the development of regulatory aspects and standards.
 
 "Regulatory aspects and standards have to be developed which should adopt solar solutions and speed up their development. Developing countries will have to develop consultancy support for bankable solar projects, to emphasise greater inclusiveness and participation in our efforts," he added.
 
 "We need to create a comprehensive network of centers of excellence. We should make the ISA Secretariat strong and professional," he asserted.
 
 The prime minister concluded his address by quoting the Shanthi Mantra from The  , "Tamaso ma jyotir gamaya", which means "From darkness, lead me to light".
 
 "If you want to serve the whole humanity then I am confident that after coming out of personal filings, like a family we will be able to bring unity and solidarity in the objectives and efforts," he added.
 
 Prime Minister Modi and French President Emmanuel Macron co-chaired the first founding conference of the ISA in New Delhi's Rashtrapati Bhavan.
 
 The summit was attended by United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj, Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro and Bangladesh President Abdul Hamid, among other dignitaries from over 50 countries. 
 
