CHANDIGARH: Punjab Police’s counter intelligence wing on Thursday claimed to have arrested Sikh youth Inderjit Singh alias Rinku, who is allegedly trained by Pakistan’s ISI in making improvised explosive devices (IEDs), from Mohali.
 
 Inderjit Singh is a native of Faridabad and is an engineering graduate with an MBA degree. Explosive materials, including chemicals, advanced electronic remote controls and light remote controls, were seized from his car (HR 01 AR 5972).
 
 Police have registered a case against him under the Prevention of Unlawful Activities Act and the Explosive Substances Act at state special operations cell at Mohali. The state counter-intelligence wing had on Monday arrested four youths from Gunachur village in Banga sub-division of Nawanshahr district, also allegedly trained by the Pakistan’s ISI. The arrested youth were allegedly planning to highlight the Khalistan issue in IPL matches to be held in Mohali.
 
 After the preliminary interrogation, it has come out that Inderjit was acting at the behest of his ISI handlers, who had tasked him to carry out blasts in Punjab with explosives made from locally available chemicals and devices, procured from online marketing websites.
 
 It has also come out during the interrogation that Inderjit is currently working with a JCB company at Faridabad. He also revealed that he was contacted by the ISI officers on Facebook about two years ago and since then he had been interacting with them and learning to make explosives with DIY (do-it-yourself) kits.
 
 As per the counter intelligence officers, the investigation indicates that Pakistani intelligence officers had chosen him because of his posts and profile on social media and they went on to further radicalise him. “The Pakistan intelligence officers, who radicalised Inderjit, were also actively coordinating and networking the terror module that was busted by the counter intelligence wing of the Punjab Police on May 29, 2017,” said a police spokesperson. The officer added that the mastermind of May 2017 terror module,  , who is a resident of Mohali, was also in touch with Inderjit through social media. He added Inderjit was operating as a lone wolf by procuring material from online marketing websites to make an IEDs after Harbarinder’s arrest last year.
 
 Stating that further investigations in the case will unravel the entire conspiracy, the police spokesperson said Inderjit was highly motivated to carry out terrorist activities.
 
 
