PUNE: Donald  , son of US President Donald Trump, will be in Pune on Wednesday to launch Tower B of the 23-storeyed Trump Towers complex at Kalyaninagar. 

 The   — “separated into a blind trust” since   assumed the American presidency — has lent its brand name to the high-end residential complex in exchange for a royalty.
 
  
  
 
 In August 2014, Donald Trump — then a real estate magnate and US presidential hopeful — had visited Pune and was “impressed” by the “show flat” in Tower A. He was so impressed, he said he will look to invest more in Pune and in partnership with Panchshil Realty — the builders of Trump Towers here. However, that project has been shelved. “We have shelved that project in Kharadi and are building a new commercial complex in that space,”  , the chairman of Panchshil Realty told TOI on Tuesday.
 
 Like Tower A, Tower B of Trump Towers too will be home to some of the country’s richest. Already, four to five clients have bought property here. About 21 of the 23 flats in Tower A belong to industrialists and film stars — some of whom have let out their property for Rs 4-5 lakh a month.
 
 At Rs 15 crore, each flat in Trump Towers quotes Rs 24,500 per sq feet. The Rs 15 crore figure has, however, not changed over the last two years.
 
 But for the Chordias, it has been good working with the Trump Organisation and they have attributed their premium pricing to the Trump brand. In an interview with TOI in November 2016, Sagar Chordia, director, Panchshil Realty, had said: “Because of the Trump brand, the property has seen a 20%-25% appreciation in value, and helped the group attract more high-spending clientele.”
 
 The towers are equipped with a 24x7 concierge service for its residents and sport a black façade that has become a trademark of Trump towers across the world. In a statement, Chordia said, “Trump Towers Pune is among the first projects in India to use dry construction technique, a technology that has saved nearly a million litres of water.”
 
 Earlier, Sagar Chordia had said   got talking to Trump Junior in 2012 and during their first conference call, the two sides had agreed upon the broad terms and conditions. When asked about the royalty that Panchshil will share with the Trump Organisation, Atul Chordia said, “We won’t like to disclose that. It is confidential.”
 
 Reports, however, have pegged the royalty that Trump Organisations get from each property at up to $5 million (about Rs 31 crore).
 
 
