GANDHINAGAR: The confrontation between Karnataka governor Vaju Vala and H D Deve Gowda’s JD(S) revived political memories in Gujarat with many invoking the ‘karma’ theory. In 1996, H D   was the Prime Minister when President’s Rule was imposed in Gujarat. Vala was then the president of ruling Gujarat BJP. The former PM along with Congress-appointed governor,  , are believed to have played a key role in not allowing the   government to prove its majority. The political crisis was triggered by a spilt in the BJP by rebel leader Shankersinh Vaghela, who had lost out to Keshubhai Patel in the race to become CM in 1995. Vaghela’s Rashtriya Janata Party (RJP) eventually formed the government with   support after President’s Rule was lifted.

 
 With Congress and JD(S) attacking Vala and the BJP over the political wrangle in Karnataka on Wednesday, BJP general secretary Ram  , shared a social media post, comparing the Karnataka situation to the situation in Gujarat in 1996. He said the Karnataka outcome was “the bitter fruit of Congress’s karma in Gujarat in 1996”.
 
 Madhav’s post describes in detail Vaghela’s revolt and the role of the Congress in thwarting attempts by the BJP to prove its majority on the floor of the assembly. “How is this story relevant after 22 years in Karnataka? Because those quoting verses of morality, constitutional ethics and conventions were perpetrators of murdering democracy and numerous elected governments,” the post reads. Karma catches all, spares none, Madhav wrote.
 
 Shankersinh Vaghela, the former Gujarat CM and former Congress leader who left the party before the 2017 assembly elections and has since been cosying up to the BJP, said, “There cannot be any comparison of 1996 Gujarat and today’s situation in Karnataka. In 1996, there was a spilt in the BJP and the BJP lost the numbers, so the governor imposed President’s Rule and later invited me to prove my majority. However, the Constitution says that the governor shall invite the single largest party first to form government. What Vajubhai Vala did is technically correct. If BJP fails to prove its numbers on the floor, the governor can invite Congress-JD(S).”
 
 Amit Chavda, the Gujarat Congress president, reacting to Madhav’s post and BJP’s allegations said, “In 1996, BJP’s internal rivalry caused the fall of their government. Their former leader Keshubhai Patel, who lost the government, didn’t blame the Congress but his own men. The people of Gujarat also know this fact. The then governor and PM followed their constitutional duties. As a Gujarati, we expected Vajubhai Vala to have followed the path of Gandhiji and Sardar Patel but he acted as a BJP man only. The BJP can go to any extent to grab power.”
 
 Dinesh Shukla, a veteran political analyst, said, “In 1996, Congress misused their position at the Centre to damage the state BJP government. Now in Karnataka and other states, BJP has done the same thing. In 1996, Congress supported horse trading of BJP MLAs. Now the BJP is trying to poach Congress and JD(S) MLAs. Both things are undemocratic.”
 
