GURUGRAM:   work on a plot of land in Ankhir village in Badkal-Surajkund road, whose permission   (HSPCB) had revoked not too long ago, resumed on Friday. Reportedly, over the last three years, a banquet hall is being built on the plot, measuring about 2.5 acre. 

 However, the permission for construction was revoked a few days ago, after allegations of environmental damage caused at the site emerged.
 
 “It’s intimated that the consent to establish, granted on 25.11.2015, and extension in the validity period of the consent to establish, granted 10.02.2018, is hereby revoked,” states a letter (a copy of which is with TOI). 
 
 The letter was issued by HSPCB to a construction firm on April 11. 
 
 The Haryana government’s counsel in the National Green Tribunal (NGT), in the case  , also stated that the permission to construct has been revoked.
 
 As the area comes under sections 4 and 5 of the   and Haryana Land Protection Act (PLPA) 1990, any kind of construction is deemed a non-forest activity and in violation of the Forest Conservation Act.
 
 Mangar resident Sunil Harsana, who highlighted the violation, told TOI, “We noticed construction activities on Friday and Saturday. We also recorded a video of earth-movers carrying out construction in the area. I, therefore, immediately brought the violation to light and informed the office of Haryana chief minister   and Municipal Corporation of Faridabad (MCF) on social media.”
 
 “Not only do such violations lead to loss of green cover, but also degradation of the ecosystem. The bigger question is how authorities gave permission for construction in an area which falls under the national conservation zone, in the first place,” said environmental analyst Chetan Agarwal.
 
 Locals alleged their complaints to the forest department and police go unheeded. “I’ve been filing RTI applications demanding information on the status of construction of various banquet halls in the Ankhir area. So far, I haven’t got any response. It shows a clear nexus between authorities and land mafia,” said   of NGO Save  .
 
 Sources said MCF is planning to take strict action against offenders. “Strict action will be taken against offenders on Monday, as the permission to construct was revoked by authorities, and also submitted to NGT,” said a MCF official.
 
 
