Ahmedabad: The massive blaze that had broke out on crude oil tanker MT Genessa near Kandla port was finally extinguished on Thursday night, after nearly 28 hours of relentless firefighting operations launched by the Deendayal Port Trust (DPT) and other agencies. DPT marine and fire staff along with deputy conservator and harbour master boarded the vessel on Friday and sealed the accommodation quarter from where the fire is suspected to have sparked.  “After surveying the situation, we decided to board the ship on Thursday night. The fire has been completely extinguished,” chairman, DPT, Ravi Parmar said. Parmar said that a special vessel from Kandla port was called to dewater the oil tanker as the engine room was filled with water, which resulted in the ship tilting on one side. “We have systematically removed the water that was mixed with lot of furnace oil and foam using our vessel. There was no chance of spillage of cargo or the furnace oil whatsoever,” he added. The cargo compartment of the tanker, which is carrying nearly 31,000 tonnes of high-speed diesel (HSD), was also secured.  According to Parmar, the next priority is to safely offload the HSD from the vessel for which DPT is in touch with various experts, including those of the P&I club. “The most feasible option is transfer the HSD to another ship. Another option is to bring to the berth and then offload, but the pipeline and wiring has been considerably damaged in the fire. We have asked Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL), which was bringing the car to hire another vessel and transfer the cargo,” the chairman said. However, this process will take a long time, probably even a month as it would have to be done with utmost caution. Meanwhile, the mercantile marine department (MMD) has already started investigation into the fire. Prima facie it looks like that the the fire was sparked by leaking of furnace oil in the engine room. The focus has also now shifted to emptying nearly 600 tonnes of furnace oil from the vessel. DPT has kept three of its tugs near the vessel as a standby.