PANAJI/VASCO:   police moved the judicial magistrate first class for a transit warrant to get Hungarian national  , 45, transferred to its custody, and was granted the same on Tuesday.

  Janos, 45, was arrested for cheating last Saturday, when he was caught using a skimmer at an  . Porvorim police on Tuesday also booked a case against the accused for staying in Goa without valid documents. 
 
 Police said that they have all the document from the embassy and found that the accused has been residing in India since December 2017. “When we arrested him he did not have any document, so we have registered another case,” police said on Tuesday.
 
 The accused had also refused to cooperate with the police making it difficult for them to get more information. Janos has been remanded in judicial custody. His Romanian partner in crime, identified so far only as Stan, fled the spot in Porvorim and the police are on the lookout for him. The accused are suspected to be involved in many other ATM related thefts, especially in the Vasco area.
 
  Vasco DySP Sunita Sawant said they had received many complaints of money being withdrawn from accounts by unidentified persons. Last week, Vasco police had called managers of many bank branches and alerted them about the incidents and asked them to check their ATMs. Sawant said that such an attempt was also made at a Punjab National Bank ATM in Verna. But since the server was down, the branch staff on examining the machine discovered the skimmer and any theft was avoided.
 
 Sawant added that there are no high quality cameras at a few ATM booths, and some are unattended. Last week, a public sector bank customer realised that money had been withdrawn from his account at a Chicalim ATM. He immediately informed his bank and the police were alerted. On examining the CCTV footage of the ATM booth, the description of the accused was provided to the police. Similar tampering was detected at a Porvorim ATM on Saturday and the police rushed to the spot and nabbed Janos at around 5.15pm on   in Porvorim. 
 
 
