HYDERABAD: In a cause for concern about 90% of the intensive care unit (ICU) patients studied in various leading hospitals across the country, including Hyderabad have at least one ICU-acquired infection. The remaining 10% suffered from multiple infections. A total of 274 disease-causing germs including superbugs were found in ICUs.

 In a first-ever multi-city research on ICU-acquired infections, doctors found that most of germs acquired during treatment in hospitals had developed resistance to most third-generation antibiotics. Of 381patients studied, 346 showed a single ICU-acquired infection.
  
  
 
 The source of most   were ventilators (ventilator-associated pneumonia or VAP), followed by catheters (catheter-related bloodstream infections or CRBSI, and catheter-associated urinary tract infections or CAUTI). Germs belonging to Candida species were found in 13% of the isolates. The study revealed that 97% of the isolates were bacteria, while three percent were fungi. The most common bacterial infection in VAP was Acinetobacter followed by Klebsiella.
 
 
 The study published in the latest issue of the Indian Journal of Critical Care Medicine revealed that “all the isolates of Acinetobacter, Pseudomonas, Klebsiella, and E coli were resistant to the third-generation cephalosporins. Almost 70% of the isolates were resistant to all the antibiotics for which susceptibility was tested except polymyxin.” The researchers attributed the drug resistance to the fact that over 70% of patients studied had already received empiric antibiotics at enrolment. This made them “a higher risk for developing multidrug resistance”.
 
 The study was taken up by a core research panel of intensivists set up by the   (ISCCM) as the rate of nosocomial (hospital acquired) infections in ICU is two to five times more than in general ward.   15 ICUs across India including one in Hyderabad participated.
 
 
 As far as ventilator-associated pneumonia infection is concerned, 267 patients had VAP with single and multiple infections. “Multidrug resistance was very prevalent with 88.6% of Acinetobacter and 81.4% of Pseudomonas showing resistant to more than one drug. Overall ICU and hospital mortality in patients with VAP was 26% and 30% respectively,” the study revealed.
 
 
 With reference to catheterrelated blood stream infections, 86 patients had CRBSI. A total of 92 pathogens were isolated from patient’s blood. “Multidrug resistance was seen in 50% of Klebsiella, 36.4% of Pseudomonas and 63.6% of Acinetobacter in patients with CRBSI,” the researchers said. Overall ICU and hospital mortality in CRBSI patients was 34.6%. In case of catheter-associated urinary tract infection, over all ICU and hospital mortality was 11.9%.
 
