PATIALA: In a year of Commonwealth and Asian Games, Indian athletics has been hit by a little crisis. Javelin great and India’s foreign coach,   is unlikely to see out his contract which runs until the 2020 Tokyo Olympics after a war of words ensued between the German and the   ( ) following his “unreasonable demands”.

 
 Alleging that AFI has reneged on its promise to fulfil his contractual obligations, Hohn, who has been coaching the national campers for four months, is counting his days at the NIS centre here and has sent feelers to the federation that he could soon be packing his bags for Australia, where he is settled with his family. Hohn, the only javelin thrower in the world to breach 100m mark, says he is not getting proper support from AFI. To highlight his plight, Hohn had this instance to share with TOI: “I recently went to Delhi to discuss the issues with Mr.   (chairman of AFI’s planning, coaching, monitoring and implementation committee). I was made to wait for two hours outside his office and when he finally met me, I was given just 10 minutes audience before he asked me to leave. Is this the way you treat coaches in India?”
 
 If Hohn indeed leaves, he would be the second foreign   in recent times to opt out of his contract midway, after Australia’s Garry Calvert. He left after 14 months (February 2016 to April 2017). “I need some respect for my work and less interference on the AFI’s part. The salary ($7500 per month) offered by SAI barely fulfils my basic needs. I need a raise. I need advanced equipment for cross training and good quality javelins to touch the 90m mark. I also want a promise from the AFI that Neeraj will train under me. It is because of him that I have come here.”
 
 Neeraj had on Tuesday told TOI that he is unsure about training under Hohn after the CWG and may leave for another training stint under another German coach, Warner Daniels to prepare for the Asian Games. Neeraj recently returned to India after a three-month training stint in Germany. With Davinder Singh Kang flunking dope test and another established woman javelin thrower Annu Rani training under her personal coach Kashinath, Hohn sees no business continuing in his job.
 
