LUDHIANA: The   department has finally notified the new   municipal outdoor advertisement policy. The policy, which is also available on the department’s website, has fixed civic officials’ accountability for checking illegal hoardings. 

 The   will have to appoint a nodal officer who will give a fortnightly report to the municipal commissioner on illegal hoardings on city roads. In case he or she is found negligent, the state will recover revenue loss from his or her salary.
 
 The policy allows city residents to register their complaints regarding illegal hoardings, and MC commissioner will have to ensure that it is redressed within three working days. The officials will also inform the complainant about the action taken. 
 
 The MC commissioner will have to submit a report within two months from the issuance of the notification, saying the policy has been implemented. Besides, name and contact number of licensed advertising agency, size of hoarding and validity of the permission granted will also be displayed on the lower righthand side of the pole or signboard or any other advertising device.
 
 MC commissioner   said they were yet to receive the notification from the department, but they would ensure there was no violation of any kind. He said the policy would help in generating revenue for the department and also assist in checking illegal advertisements.
 
 
 
 
 For ensuring transparency in the system, the officials will provide all information on the MC website. They will display name and contact details of nodal officer appointed by the department and the area under his or her jurisdiction. The total number of different types of advertisement devices permitted along with their type, size, name and location will also be available on the MC portal. The contact number of the advertising licence-holder and validity of permission can be checked from the site.
 
 
 
 
 Industrial area, commercial areas, recreational areas, institutional area, bus queue shelters, garbage dumps, public toilets, street furniture like benches and dustbins, city buses, parking display boards, sides of kiosks, parking tickets, parking uniforms and foot over bridges. 
 
 
 
 
 Traffic barricades, police and traffic assistance booths, railway station, bus terminal, airport, rooftops of any building, residential areas, monuments and mobile vans for purposes of advertising. 
 
 
 
 
 The policy states that MC should remove the unauthorized advertisement installed at any location and its cost should be recovered from the advertiser or the property owner and officials should also impose penalty as per MC laws.
 
 
