NEW DELHI: Flanked by the three mayors, Delhi BJP chief   on Thursday held a press conference where he announced a special joint   of the civic bodies on January 27. 

 On agenda will be to look for ways to provide   to   from the  .
 
 Tiwari said the three corporations would adopt a resolution to move the Supreme Court, seeking a halt to the drive for six months. He said it was a matter of regret that Delhi government had “failed the people” by neither notifying the commercial roads, nor starting formalities on regularisation of unauthorised colonies. “The government negligently filed an application before the Supreme Court seeking more time without even submitting a plan. As a result, the Supreme Court ordered the monitoring committee to initiate the sealing drive,” Tiwari claimed. 
 
 He appealed to LG to call a meeting of officials of Delhi government, Centre, the three corporations, DDA, NDMC and other departments and “ensure that a single advocate appears on behalf of all of them and seeks time of one year for the traders and residents to complete the regularisation work as per the fresh notification”. Preety Agarwal, mayor of north corporation, alleged that at a time when people of Delhi were distressed due to the sealings, the Delhi government was trying to mislead the people on the issue of conversion charges.
 
 Nima Bhagat, mayor of east corporation, denied allegations that the corporations had misused funds collected through conversion charge. “Whatever little diversion of funds was done, it was in public interest. It was due to the Delhi government’s failure to give the civic bodies proper funding as recommended by the Fourth Delhi Finance Commission,” she claimed. 
 
 Kamaljeet Sehrawat, mayor of SDMC, said the sealing drive was being carried on the directions of the monitoring committee. “There is a need for all officials to sit down and find a solution. We will request SC and the Centre to give us six months to fill the gaps. The traders are suffering and we want to provide them some relief,” she said. 
 
 
