ASANSOL:  , where Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh   will be conferred the D Litt on Saturday, has made a sudden change in the guest list barely 72 hours before the event: “Guest-in-Chief” and CM   Banerjee’s name has fallen off the list, which is being interpreted as a snub from Nabanna to the state’s youngest university.

 
 The changed guest list for the university’s third convocation, which was sent out on Wednesday, followed a call from a senior state government official to KNU vice-chancellor Sadhan Chakraborty, intimating the latter about the chief minister’s inability to attend the programme.
 
 The original invite mentioned Banerjee as the chief guest and also kept a 20-minute window for her speech, which would have preceded the Bangladesh premier’s. Even on Tuesday, the CM’s personal security detail inspected — and sanitised — the VVIP zone, indicating the change in the guest list was a last-minute decision, which officials admitted was “highly unusual and a departure from convention, especially when a visiting head of state was one of the invitees”.
 
 Nabanna officials gave one “official reason” and a second “unofficial reason”. The “official reason” was that the univ-ersity had erred in “including the CM’s name without waiting for Nabanna’s approval”. 
 
 The “unofficial reason” given by Nabanna officials added a more serious angle to the controversy: the   had come to know of an ongoing inquiry into “serious allegations of nepotism and financial irregularities originating from the university campus”, prompting Nabanna to scrap the CM’s visit.
 
 The fresh invite, issued on Wednesday, specified that Bengal governor and university chancellor Keshari Nath Tripathi would preside over the convocation and state education minister Partha   would be the guest-of-honour. Tripathi is scheduled to reach Asansol on Friday evening and will receive the Bangladesh PM on the campus on Saturday. 
 
 KNU officials said they did not know of either of the two reasons that prompted a last-minute change in the guest list. University registrar Sitangshu Kumar Guha said: “The new invitation cards do not have the CM’s name because her participation (in the convocation) is still uncertain.” State education minister Chatterjee, too, refused to read too much into the changed guest list.
 
 Guha also indicated that actor Sharmila Tagore (another proposed D Litt awardee) and Nobel laureate Muhammad Yunus (a proposed awardee for D Sc) had not yet confirmed their participation and so the programme details had been finalised without them. The university, to do away with any more controversy, also sent an invite to BJP Asansol MP and junior Union minister Babul Supriyo.
 
