CHENNAI: Soon,   providing   to experiments and applications and vivid illustrations to explain theories, textbook will be page-turners for state board students. After smart classrooms, the state government as part of its revamped syllabus is overhauling the way learning is approached, introducing students to a variety of concepts that may interest them beyond the book. 

  
  
 Printing for the first batch of   for Class I, VI, IX and XI is underway and will have features that blend technology and e-learning based on the revamped syllabus, said school education department authorities. QR (Quick Response) codes will allow a student to access information immediately about a particular topic by simply using a smartphone and placing it above the code using a code reader or scanner app. "By using the app and placing it above the code, it will automatically link the textbook info to curate content online, either on websites or stored through cloud technology, which can serve as value additions to a chapter," said a senior education department official. QR codes will link students to animations, e-books, audio-visual illustrations and video lessons that will be carried out by teachers in Tamil Nadu online. 
 
 A move that is far removed from the rote learning associated with the state boards, activity-based assignments will help students apply what they learn. "Each set of chapters will have an ICT (information and communication technologies) corner that will involve games or activities based on concepts, subject oriented software platforms, simulation or platforms that students can use. A separate team has worked on this," said a department official.   chairman Jagannathan said an estimated 1.10 crore copies of books are being printed now. The content for Class XI will be published as one textbook but for Class I, VI and XI, three volumes will be provided following the trimester semester system. 
 
 Introducing the concept in a phased manner, the state expects to implement the innovative curriculum in all classes in the next two years. "We will also be simultaneously working on the revamped content to be produced in CD format and as e-books," said a senior education department official.
 
 School education minister K A Sengottaiyan said the revamped curriculum and syllabus was framed keeping changes in mind for the next decade and to equip students of TN state board to tackle various competitive entrance exams like NEET, JEE among others. Some teachers, however feel, the new system of learning may pose difficulties for rural students, and said extra steps will have to be taken to ensure that they get used to the new format of books. 
 
 Principal of MCC Matriculation Higher Secondary School, Revathy Bonns said the government is taking the right step in moving beyond bookish knowledge. "We received feedback from teachers that the content of Class XI books, especially, is of a high quality, better than NCERT. This will take time for our students to get adjusted to as they come from a different mindset. In terms of using the app and online content, some students will have to be guided by teachers and for this teacher training is required as well," she said, indicating that teething problems may continue for at least a year or two.
 
 
