MUMBAI: The son of   judge Brijmohan Loya held a press conference on Sunday to say that he had no suspicions about his father's sudden death in Nagpur on December 1, 2014, and he did not want a probe into it. At the time of his death, 
  in which BJP national president  , then minister of state for home in Gujarat, was an accused.

 
 "My family had some suspicions earlier. But now they are clear," judge Loya's son Anuj said on Sunday. "I have no suspicions; so, (I) don't want any probe."
 
 Anuj's interaction with journalists came two days after 
  alleging that Chief Justice of India, Justice  , was flouting convention by assigning sensitive cases to junior judges. A PIL for a probe into   is scheduled to be heard on January 16 before an SC bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra. 
 
  
  
 
 Anuj, a 21-year-old law student, said, "I have been going through media reports. I want to make it clear that my family is pained… We have no allegations against anyone. Don't try to harass us or trouble us."
 
 He was flanked by advocate Amit Naik and a cousin, Pratik Bhandari. Also present was a family friend: K B Katke, a former district judge of Mumbai.
 
  
  
 
 The "sudden death" of judge Loya, their sole bread-winner, put his family in an "emotional trauma initially", Anuj said. After his father's death, he had reportedly hinted at a "conspiracy". Asked why he changed his stance, Anuj said, "I was only 17 then and it emotionally affected me."
 
 Katke said, "Because of media reports, MLAs and NGOs are trying to harass the family. Anuj's mother is ill and needs treatment."
 
 Asked who was harassing the family, Anuj said, "I don't want to name anyone. I don't want to say anything further and neither do my family members."
 
 On how the press briefing came to be held, Katke said, "We approached advocate Amit Naik as we wanted to brief the media." He also said the Loyas have accepted "that the (judge's) death was due to heart attack".
 
 Naik said, "What Anuj wants to convey, as I have been instructed, is to let this issue remain non-controversial, as there is no controversy and it need not be politicised." The press briefing was held at Naik's office.
 
 
