NEW DELHI:   stays on course to defend her India Open title. Shifting to top gear right from the start, Sindhu never let   any elbow room to plot a comeback and smashed her way into the final in straight games 21-13, 21-15 at the Siri Fort Complex on Saturday evening. 

 
 She will face Beiwen Zhang in the summit clash on Sunday. Attack was Sindhu’s hashtag against the former world champion from Thailand as she opened up a 12-point lead in the first game. Flawless in her crosscourt finishes and forecourt defence, the Rio Olympic silver medallist posed critical questions to Intanon. 
 
 Trying to corner Sindhu at the net also came to a nought as the Indian retrieved from every corner of the court.
 
 Beiwen Zhang, who scalped   in the quarters, accounted for another surprise semifinalist, Cheung Ngan, Yi 14-21, 21-12, 21-19 in a nerve-wracking contest that went on for more than an hour. 
 
 “I am not surprised to find myself in the final,” said the Las-Vegas based shuttler whose wants to win at least one Super Series title in 2018.
 
 Iskander Zulkarnain was about to script the biggest story on the Siri Fort Courts since the days of Li Xuerui.
 
 Ready to have a fairy-tale finish to the Yonex-Sunrise India Open, the 85th ranked Malaysian qualifier rushed to snatch the lead against China’s Shi Yuqi (pronounced yuchee).
 
 A youth Olympic champion in 2014, Yuqi is considered to be the most promising after Chen Long. And the 21-year-old, ranked 8th, showed enough reasons to prove the point. Levelling the issue losing just 10 points in the second, Yuki prepared to stifle the Malaysian’s ascent and finally emerged unscathed. He won 18-21, 21-10, 21-19.
 
 “Smash, smash, smash,” said Yuki, still trying to catch his breath after a 42-stroke rally for the penultimate point in the deciding game. Struggling to stich a sentence in English, Yuki managed to convey that the mantle of “China’s next best thing” is too heavy to carry. “But for now, I am looking to win the title against Chou Tien Chen.”
 
 The Chinese Taipei shuttler, ranked 7th, had got the better of Yuki’s compatriot Qiao Bin 23-21, 21-16 in the first semifinal. Sikki N Reddy and Pranav Jerry Chopra’s run was halted in the mixed doubles semifinal by the Danish pair Christinna Pedersen and Mathias Christiansen in straight games 21-16, 21-19.
 
 
