HYDERABAD: Contrary to popular perception, a country's foreign policy very much matters to the man on the street. For this reason, the Union ministry of external affairs on Thursday launched the "Videsh Aaya Pradesh Ke Dwaar" initiative, a first in the country. The programme was launched by joint director (XP),   and external affairs ministry spokesperson Raveesh Kumar in Hyderabad. With this, the ministry aims to reach people across the country to help them understand foreign police matters and how this has a bearing on their lives. 

 As part of the programme, the MEA will keep even local media in different languages and states informed about visits of foreign dignitaries as well as on how the friendship and relationship between nations will impact the economy and throw up opportunities. 
 
 "Every visit abroad or a visit to the country has a meaning, something from which there is some good coming out for the nation. Ultimately, it is the people who reap the benefit out of this and the idea is that everyone should be informed about these things," Raveesh Kumar said. With Union minister for external affairs   floating the idea, the ministry decided to engage with the local media in different parts of the country. If so far, only the media in Delhi had access to the MEA, it will no more be like that. All information that the media in Delhi gets will also be provided to regional media through a WhatsApp group. Raveesh Kumar said the newspaper readership as understood was 29.63 crore out of which 11.26 crore was in local languages, which was non-Hindi and non-English. 
 
 "Foreign policy affects people's lives. Information about this helps people looking for jobs abroad or working abroad and students to make their plans," Raveesh Kumar said. 
 
 Regional Passport Officer (RPO) Vishnuvardhan Reddy said the Indian diaspora was most important for the MEA. He said the state government had allocated two acres in a GO issued on March 9 for construction of a   in the city. Several offices relating to the ministry will be housed there. Officer on Special Duty (PR), MEA, Abu Mathan George described the outreach of the external affairs ministry as 'diplomacy with a human face'. Joint Secretary ( ), MEA, T V   was also present. 
 
 
