BHUBANESWAR: The   will run an Aastha   from here to   in the western part of the country from March 10. 

 This special train will cover 14 most popular tourist and religious places in western India in 12 nights and 13 days and return to Bhubaneswar on March 22. These places include Sai Baba temple at Shirdi, Shani Shingnapur, Triambakeshwar temple, Mukti Dham, Sabarmati Ashram in Gujarat, Akshardham temple, Dwarakanath Temple, Nageswar, Gomti Ghat, Somnath, Mahakaleswar temple, Kal Bhairav temple, Bade Ganesh ji temple and Omkareshwar in Madhya Pradesh. 
 
 Tourists can board the train at Bhubaneswar, Cuttack and Sambalpur in Odisha and Raipur and Bilaspur in  . The train has 12 coaches reserved for 840 tourists. It has only sleeper class facility with no AC. "Cost of the tour is Rs 12,285 per head," said Sudipto Mukherjee, regional manager (Bhubaneswar) of IRCTC. 
 
 It has hall accommodation at places of night stay and non-AC buses for siteseeing. It will serve vegetarian food in breakfast, lunch and dinner. The train has tour escorts for announcements and supply of information to tourists.
 
  Security (without arms) arrangements will be made in each coach. An IRCTC official will be deployed in the train as superintendent. 
 
 The regional office has also launched one international and two domestic group tours this year. It will start an international tour to Malaysia and Singapore for five nights and six days from Visakhapatnam airport on March 24. Cost of the tour is Rs 61,660 per head onwards. 
 
 One of the domestic tours Kashmir-Heaven on Earth for five nights and six days will start from Bhubaneswar airport on April 25. Price of the tour starts from Rs 33,250. Another tour Royal Rajasthan will start from Visakhapatnam airport on April 4 for five nights and six days and will cost Rs 27,110 onwards. 
 
 The package will include flight tickets, hotel accommodation, exclusive vehicle for road transportation and sightseeing, guide, breakfast and dinner and IRCTC tour manager, said the regional manager of the IRCTC. 
 
 
