NAGPUR: The pest attack has left the   growers in a poor state as the rates for their produce have dropped sharply. Cotton arrival is strong in market even by March end. Farmers had been holding on with a part of their crop hoping that the rates would improve by March, but a downslide struck instead, traders say. 

 Cotton prices fell by over Rs700 touching Rs4500 to 4700 per quintal. After ruling at Rs5500 to 5700 a quintal for a brief period, rates are down since over a month. The current rates are close to the minimum support price (MSP) of Rs4200 per quintal.
 
 The superior grade of cotton bolls are harvested in December-January, what comes in between February and March is of inferior quality —   (leftover) as know in the rural jargon. Fartal has been fetching a price of Rs2800 to 3000 per quintal. The fartal rates too have dropped by around Rs500 as compared to the regular prices. This year the price gap is wider as the cotton quality further worsened due to bollworm attack, say traders.
 
 In the wake of the pink bollworm attack on cotton crop, agriculture department had issued advisories for farmers to clear the fields by December. Clearing the crop by December cuts short the life cycle of the bollworm which has its larvae in the field. However, considering the flow of fartal coming in the market, it appears that the farmers failed to comply. 
 
 Early termination of crop is apparently not a profitable condition for farmers. Those with sufficient irrigation facility continue cultivation till March-April to increase their earnings. However, this means that the farmers will remain trapped in the vicious circle of crop damage. If the cultivation process is extended, the chances of bollworm attack next season becomes more strong leading to more losses. 
 
 Former Shektari Sanghatana activist,   pointed out that raw cotton rates in India had dropped despite lint (processed cotton) prices being up. During the same period last year, lint was priced at Rs37000 a quintal and this year it is around Rs39,000. Despite this upward price swing, raw cotton rates are down. This is because the demand for cotton seeds, used for oil, has dropped this year resulting into reduced market for cotton. Cotton seeds are fetching Rs1600 a quintal this year as against Rs2500 last year, he said. Farmers go for fartal because they cannot earn a decent income without it, Jawandhia explained. 
 
 The cotton rates are down due to supply pressure, said  , managing director of  , a trading company. 
 
 
