MUMBAI:   involves not only physical abuse but also mental, emotional and economic harassment, the   said in an important order. Justice   dismissed a petition filed by a Mumbai resident who had urged the court to quash the domestic violence case lodged against him by his wife of 24 years. The man claimed that the case was lodged by his wife over a suspicion that he was having an extramarital affair. 

 "The term domestic violence as defined in the law is not restricted only to physical violence but also includes mental and emotional abuse and economic harassment to the person aggrieved," said the judge. "The pleadings from the complaint in detail speak of mental, emotional, economic and physical abuse. Instances are narrated wherein the conduct of the man is labelled as one amounting to domestic violence," said the judge. The court said that it was prima facie satisfied and no case was made out to use its extraordinary powers to quash the complaint. 
 
 The woman had filed a complaint under section 12 of the Domestic Violence (DV) Act. Her petition to the court had urged various reliefs, including compensation, payment of maintenance, return of her valuables, custody of the couple's children and restraining her husband from selling off the apartment that she was living with her children. 
 
 The   was enacted in 2005 and allows a woman to approach the court seeking protection from domestic violence. The magistrate can pass a wide range of restraining orders as well as grant orders of maintenance and compensation for the violence inflicted. The magistrate can also prohibit the women from being dispossessed from the house that she is residing in. The court can punish the accused with a jail term of up to one year and/or a fine of up to Rs 20,000.
 
 The man approached the high court after proceedings under the DV Act were initiated by the magistrate's court. He alleged that his wife suspected that he was having an extra marital affair and that was the reason she filed the false complaint. His lawyers contended that considering the age of the couple and the fact that they had grown up children, "it is really difficult to accept the story put forth by the wife." He said that the complaint filed by his wife did not satisfy the requirement of the laws. "No mental, emotional, economic or physical violence could be noticed from the complaint," he urged, seeking that his wife's plea should be quashed.
 
