COIMBATORE: It was meant to be a free to use toilet built using Swachh Bharat Mission funds sanctioned by the Centre and donations collected from corporates.

 But a contractor deployed by the city corporation to maintain the structure has been earning lakhs – roughly Rs 25 lakh in the past nine months – without even spending a penny on the toilet. What more, the contractor also earns an undisclosed sum from advertisement revenue by setting up billboards in the toilet. In fact, the corporation had let the contractor earn from the advertisement revenue which could be used for maintenance of the toilet.
 
 Public visiting the toilet near the town bus stand in   are made to pay Rs 5 and issued a token. The charges are neither mentioned in the token nor are displayed in boards at the toilet.
 
 “The usage charges are not printed as the contractor is aware that they are not supposed to charge from public,” said K  , secretary of Coimbatore Consumer Cause, who has raised several petitions regarding this issue to the corporation commissioner,  .
 
 TOI has photo and video evidence of the violation. “In an RTI reply, the contractor and the corporation have clearly stated that the public will not be charged. The revenue from advertisements will only be used for maintenance,” Kathirmathiyon said. 
 
 About 2,000 people visit the toilet daily, thanks to its location near the crowded bus stand. A back of the envelope calculation reveals that the contractor was pocketing Rs 3 lakh per month since April last year.
 
 Prakash, a representative of the contractor   who is in-charge of the toilet, justified collection of user charges claiming that it was necessary to maintain the toilet. When asked about the exact maintenance expenditure,   refused to divulge it. But activists rubbished the claim. 
 
 The   supplies two truckloads of water every day, each 6000litres to the contractor free of cost. The electricity is also not billed. Besides, district collector T N Hariharan and the corporation commissioner allowed the contractor to raise funds from advertisements to maintain the toilet.
 
 Corporation officials too appeared to be aware of the contractor fleecing public in violation of norms. “This is for senior officials to take action,” said assistant executive engineer, Coimbatore Corporation, Karuppusamy, in-charge for the toilet.
 
 The executive engineer of the corporation, Gnanavel has also not taken any steps in this regard despite various petitions. Corporation commissioner K Vijayakarthikeyan when contacted said that charging the public at the toilet defeated the purpose of constructing it. “We will take action,” he said.
 
 Activists however caution that levying a penalty on the contractor would not serve the purpose. “The corporation should blacklist the contractor,” said Kathirmathiyon.
 
 
