MADURAI: The Periyar bus terminal is one of the busiest in the city being utilised by thousands of commuters a day, but bogged down by several inadequacies which the city corporation as well as transport authorities have not bothered to address. Besides being encroached upon by hawkers, passenger amenities like seating and sanitation as well as a proper information system have been grossly lacking at the terminal.

 If the MGR and Arappalayam bus terminals cater mostly to long route buses,  , which is the oldest in the city, provides connectivity to various rural pockets. Located near Madurai railway junction and   temple, the terminal is also popularly used by tourists from other districts and states. However, anxious faces looking for information are a common scene at the terminal as there is hardly any system in place. Harried passengers have to depend on the time keeper’s office on each platform to get the information. 
 
 R Kanagavelpandian, a lawyer from Iravadhanallur, said that those who regularly used the terminal might not find it difficult to get the required information but new comers would be all at sea. He demanded that information boards be put up on every platform which were also clearly visible from a distance. He said, “The terminal is a mess as buses are parked randomly in the absence of destination-wise platform arrangement. One has to walk here and there in search of the appropriate bus service. Even the platform numbers are not marked.”
 
 Adding to the confusion is the inadequate seating facility with the result that passengers have to stand until buses arrive. While thousands used the terminal a day, the seating facility was available only for a few, said S  , a college student. Sanitation facilities were also far from adequate at the terminal with a pay-and-use toilet available in a corner, which was not kept clean either. With poor lighting in the night, passengers used the open place for urinating. 
 
 M   from Jaihindpuram said, “At least the urinal facility should be made free of cost. The drinking water facility is available only in the second entry and one more should be set up at the primary entrance,” he said. Passengers also pointed out that the platform space was being encroached upon by hawkers. There should be a separate space marked for the hawkers without affecting their livelihood, they opined. 
 
 When contacted, assistant commissioner of corporation zone 4, Kousalambikai, explained her ‘constraints’. She said that improving passenger amenities like seating and sanitation could be undertaken only with the help of separate funds. Apparently, the civic body was yet to take up the crippling issues in the terminal seriously enough. She said that passenger information system should be set up by the   authorities. An official from   said that they would install information boards with the help of sponsors. 
 
 
