NAGPUR: As the Government of India began expecting higher GDP from the mineral-based industry the Geological Survey of India (GSI) is now shifting its focus from already exhausted shallow mineral deposits to newer   deposits. But to explore the deep deposits   has more challenges than opportunities. It needs completely different technology to approach these deposits which unfortunately doesn’t exist with the GSI.

 The GSI director general,   told TOI that GSI neither had the technology nor the expertise for exploring and extracting the deep-seated deposits. He was in city for a conference at the GSI, central region office. “We now need to tap low grade but high tonnage deposits. Earlier we would look for minimum 5gm per tonne of gold in the gold reefs but now we could be satisfied even with 3gm/tonne deposits. Improving this ore through ore-beneficiation also is a big challenge for GSI,” he said.
 
 Along with land deposits GSI is also stressing on off shore deposits. Rao said that there are radioactive minerals, heavy mineral deposits too which need to be explored to increase the revenue from minerals. “Lime mud off the   coast is being looked as a very promising deposit for cement factories and chemical industry. Generally steel industry imports limestone for blast furnace.   has tested its suitability for the process,” said Rao.
 
 Rao said that a thrust area for GSI was searching the rare earth metals and strategic minerals as they are now required widely. There is stress on green energy sources and lithium batteries being a potential product for vehicles in future. Lithium is one such rare earth mineral but there are many more minerals which the GSI needs to explore.
 
 “Niti Ayog is basically coordinating the work on rare earth minerals. The Rajasthan Sivani Ring Complex is one potential area for them. Government is trying to work out strategies to explore and mine the rare earth minerals in friendly countries. The Atomic Mineral Division (AMD) and the Rare Earth India Limited ( ) are also supporting the programme with Niti Ayog,” said Rao.
 
 Aerial surveys are also being conducted on large scale to look for deposits ranging from 300 metres to 1000 metres. These surveys have always proved very useful for the AMD and hence GSI is also trying to use the technology aggressively. “All the geophysical, geological, geochemical data generated in near future will be used to develop a national plan for mineral exploration and mining.
 
 
