LUDHIANA: The Ludhiana police have booked a father-son duo of Nabha tehsil in Patiala for duping a resident of Kanech village in   of Rs 3.10 lakh to get his son recruited in the police department. According to information, the accused claimed to have links with senior SAD leaders, and also presented some pictures of them with politicians to befool the complainant. Importantly, the complainant,   Singh (a factory worker in  ) took loan to pay the money. However, the accused neither got his son   Singh (27) — also working in a factory — a job nor returned their money. 

 So, Malkeet lodged a complaint with Sahnewal police station on October 23, 2017. An inquiry was marked, and after almost six months, the police registered a case, and lodged an FIR against Lal Singh (60) and his son   (33) under sections 420 (cheating) and 120-B (punishment for criminal conspiracy) of the IPC.
 
 In his police complaint, Malkeet said the accused were their distant relatives. In 2016, his son was preparing to give trials for recruitment in Punjab Police. Meanwhile, they met the accused father-son duo, who claimed to have links with senior Akali leaders. Further, Sandeep added: “They had shown us their pictures with senior SAD leaders to convince us that they could get me a job, for which they asked Rs 6 lakh from us. However, the deal was finally settled at Rs 3.10 lakh. They took Rs 10,000 from us a day ahead of the trial. Then, in two instalments, they took Rs 1.90 lakh on August 28, 2016, and then Rs 1.10 lakh on September 6, 2016. My father took loan to give them money for my selection.” 
 
 He added: “When my name was not shortlisted in the final list, the accused said my name would come in the second list. They kept delaying it, and when we demanded our money back, they started threatening us. They also lodged a police complaint against us in Patiala. However, police later identified it to be a false complaint. Before panchayat, the accused agreed to return the money, but did not keep their word. After that, we lodged a complaint with Ludhiana police.”
 
 Investigating officer Harbans Singh from Sahnewal police station said the police had registered a case after inquiry, and are tracing the accused. The police will also identify if the accused were associated with some leaders or not. 
 
 
