NEW DELHI: Giving   to its   to   air pollution in Delhi and the National Capital Region ( ), the   has finally   a   (CAP) and asked governments in Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan and their agencies to ensure “strict implementation” and time-lines.

 
 
 
 
 
 Though the plan had been drawn up in January, its formal notification has empowered the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to issue directions for implementation as agreed by all the states and even initiate action for non-compliance.
 
  
  
 
 The CAP comprises source-wise clean air action plan and compliance strategy. It specifies a number of measures including actions to reduce vehicular emissions, curtail number of vehicles on road, a parking policy to tackle congestion, control dust from construction and manage waste disposal. 
 
 The action points have been notified by CPCB which on March 6 issued directions to Delhi and the NCR states under Section 3 and 5 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 for compliance. These sections give the central government power to take actions to protect the environment.
 
 The actions under the 1986 act include power to direct closure, prohibition or regulation of any industry, operation or process if they are found to be polluting. It also empowers the Centre to stop or regulate supply of electricity or water or any other service of the polluting industries.
 
 Sharing details of notification, environment minister Harsh Vardhan in his written response to a Parliament question in Rajya Sabha said, “The CAP for management of   in Delhi and NCR has been finalised by the environment ministry in consultation with various stakeholders.”
 
 Stating that the plan had been notified for “strict implementation by concerned agencies”, he said the plan had identified time-lines for agencies to take action under various categories.
 
 The CAP includes measures such as setting up of 20 additional real-time monitoring stations by the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC), expansion of air quality monitoring station across NCR states and undertaking satellite-based monitoring and enforcing agriculture waste burning among others.
 
 Though most of the measures, enlisted in the CAP, have consent of Delhi and NCR states, there are few points where the states and central agencies have still been in discussion mode. Such proposed measures include augmenting metro service for carrying more passengers, ensuring NCR connectivity through public transport system (buses and metro) and rationalisation of entry taxes in NCR under reciprocal arrangement.
 
 As far as parking policy to reduce congestion and pollution is concerned, the NCR states have agreed to follow Delhi which is expected to finalise its policy and enforcement measures as per the Delhi Master Plan 2021. 
 
 Under traffic management, the action points under the CAP also proposes considering “introducing plan for flexi\staggered timings to minimise peak movement of vehicles on roads” by May. The states have also agreed to have a fully electronic system in place by then to monitor traffic violations.
 
 
