   disclosed how he was dragged into a controversy over his non-existing association with underworld don Dawood Ibrahim over two decades ago, during a recent  . 

  Pawar said a BJP MP from Mumbai demanded a probe into a statement by Dawood's brother that he knows the then CM (Pawar). Since the charges were serious, Pawar backed a probe. 
 
 Pawar said he began gathering information on Dawood's brother, who was then settled in Dubai. Pawar traced the source of information and unearthed that a Mumbai-based journalist met Dawood's brother in Dubai. Dawood's brother informed the journalist that he knows thespian Dilip Kumar and some film stars in Mumbai. He told the scribe that the Ibrahim family was keen on returning to Mumbai, but if they landed in Mumbai, they would be arrested and hence abandoned the idea. The scribe asked Dawood's brother if he knew Sharad Pawar, to which he replied that everyone knew him as he was the chief minister of Maharashtra. 'Dawood's brother knows Sharad Pawar', became a headline in a daily and it was enough to launch a vilification campaign against him. The BJP MP raised the question in Parliament: Since Dawood's brother has admitted that he knew Sharad Pawar would the Centre initiate an independent probe. Pawar claimed that when he was the Maharashtra chief minister, the entire underworld empire was completely destroyed and that he had no links with the gangsters. Pawar said it was unfortunate that he was dragged in a controversy merely on the basis of a statement made by Dawood's brother. Pawar (77) is the only politician who never responds to allegations against him.
 
  
 
 
 NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik had alleged that senior BJP leader and tourism minister Jaykumar Rawal was involved in land grabbing and that he has taken over vast tracts of land illegally in Dhule district belonging to   (MTDC). Malik claimed that Rawal has refused to surrender the land despite a court order. Most of the information disclosed by Malik was obtained by NCP's bete noire Anjali Damania under the Right to Information (RTI) Act. Damania had filed several public interest litigations against NCP leaders Ajit Pawar and Sunil Tatkare for their alleged involvement in allotment of major contracts for irrigation projects in Konkan and Vidarbha. 
 
 On November 1, 2017, Damania had submitted a RTI application to MTDC to secure information on the present status of Toranmal hill resort, outstanding bills to be paid by the firm that has been given the resort on lease, details of board of directors of the firm, minutes of the meeting attended by Rawal (then a legislator), if Indian-made foreign liquor and country liquor is sold in the resort and who is in possession of the resort as on November 1, 2017. 
 
 The MTDC was submitted the information sought by Damania. Despite specific information and allegations, CM has given Rawal a clean chit.
 
 
