CHANDIGARH: Panjab University (PU) hostel number 10, which is to be named after  , missed yet another deadline. The girls hostel was to open by August end this year, but could not be readied by then. The   office had, then, given another deadline and stated that the hostel will be ready by the end of December. However, it is not ready till now.

 “I visited the hostel on Saturday along with the wardens to see whether the work has been completed or not. The construction work to install lift in the hostel has just started. So, the XEN has told us that it would take another month for them to complete the work,” said the dean student welfare ( ) Prof Emanual Nahar. 
 
 He added that the rooms of the hostel are ready. However, they cannot take the risk by admitting students since the construction of the lift is still going on. The hostel can accommodate more than 400 students.
 
 The syndicate in its meeting on August 20 this year had approved to name the girls hostel number 10 as   Bhanot Hostel. It was proposed by PU VC Arun Kumar   to name the girls’ hostel number 10 after Neerja, who lost her life trying to save passengers aboard   Flight 73, which the terrorists had hijacked during a stopover in Karachi, Pakistan, on September 5, 1986.
 
 Opening of this hostel would resolve the accommodation issue of the students to a large extent and that is why the   (PUCSC) had been following up the issue. The council members in November had asked the XEN office to give them a written reply on the exact date of opening of the new hostel for girls, which has missed its several deadlines. Since the hostel accommodation is a huge problem for the students, Grover had asked the student council to raise the issue with the XEN and expedite the work.
 
 “We had followed it up with the XEN office and they had told us that the construction will be completed by December end. However, it is still not complete. If it is completed, it would be a big relief for the female students, who already are facing problems for the accommodation,” said  , joint secretary of the student council.
 
 
