Visakhapatnam: Security forces are on edge in Maoist-infested areas along the Andhra-Odisha border over reports that the CPI-Maoist has launched a renewed   offensive in order to compensate a spate of surrenders and arrests of its cadres and militia members in recent times.

 The   are allegedly pouring in money to procure arms and medicines before the start of the monsoon which brings with it a host of epidemics. The Maoists are also learnt to be readying for a showdown with security forces who are relentlessly combing the Andhra-Odisha border (AOB) areas.
 
 A recent exchange of fire between the Maoists and police at Tikkarapadu in the AOB area on February 12 sent ripples through the security forces as it emerged that around 70 Maoists were camped in the area.
 
 After senior leader Chalapati alias Sudha was shifted from the East Division to Koraput area, the Maoists have been strengthening their squads with new recruits, a senior police officer said. Another officer involved in anti-Naxal operations said the bulge in numbers might have come from Chhattisgarh as many platoons and small squads were drawn from the Dandakaranya cadres.
 
 “We have information that the   in AOB have inducted many persons from Chattishgarh. Many Naxals from Dandakaranya area, mainly, Sukma, Dantewada and other areas, have crossed the border,” Visakha rural SP Rahul Dev Sharma told TOI.
 
 When the joint operation with Greyhounds and Special Operations Group (SOG) was carried out at Tikkarapadu in the cut-off area, the Maoists were involved in training, sources said. Around 30 to 40 tribals were recruited by the Odisha squad in Koraput district and the cut-off area in Malkangiri. All the new recruits were trained in handling arms, sources said.
 
 “Their area of operations was restricted by the security forces for the last one-and-a-half years. But they wished to show their presence by indulging in some activity. To that end, they brought cadres from Chhattisgarh to AOB areas,” police sources said.
 
 
