HYDERABAD: A 23-year-old youth, a Swiggy delivery boy, collapsed and died while bowling in a cricket match, held under flood lights on the occasion of the Republic Day, at a ground on Road No. 10 Banjara  , on Friday night. Doctors, who examined the youth,  , after he slumped, declared that he died due to cardiac arrest.

 A video, which captured the action of Anthony bowling and slumping to the ground while participating in Bangaru Telangana MGR Cricket Tournament (BTMGRCT) and shot by the cricketer's brother, went viral on Saturday. 
 
 Anthony, who was know for his passion for cricket and playing for   colony, bowled three deliveries. On the fourth delivery, he suddenly slumped to the ground, with his face hitting the pitch. It was his first over in the match. 
 
 Around 12 midnight when the match was in full swing with spectators screaming in support of their respective teams, Anthony collapsed in full public glare. The organisers of the tournament, who made arrangements like flood lights and chairs for the event, did not under stand what happened to Anthony. The on-field players first reached him and patted him, but there was no response. Initially, everyone thought Anthony might have suffered a bouts of fits. The organisers tried to call an ambulance to meet the emergency, but since it was near the Indo-American   Hospital, Anthony was put in an auto and shifted to Star Hospital around 12.15am. around 1am, the hospital authorities declared Anthony dead. 
 
 Banjara Hills inspector K   said since the video was taken by Anthony's bother and happened in front of several persons, the family did not want any case to be registered. "According to family members, Anthony had no previous health problems. Since Anthony was bowling, his brother started taking video on his phone,'' Srinivas added. 
 
 After Anthony's collapse, the ongoing match was abruptly cancelled. BTMGRCT organisers conduct a cricket tournament every year for the local youth. The family members, who came to know about the death, were heartbroken and inconsolable. Later, his body was taken to his residence at Nandini Colony. He was laid to rest on Saturday.
 
 
