GURUGRAM: Residents of   in Sector 58 are worried. The only road connecting their housing society to the rest of the city has been partially dug up. 

 As a result, residents complain that the road is not only half-covered by huge mounds of earth left by Huda after the construction of a   drain, but the   itself has also been left uncovered, creating the risk of accidents. “Huda is doing the work piecemeal, and that too only after we prod them over and over by sending letters and representations to senior officials,” said a resident. 
 
 Around 500 families live in the society. 
 
 “The road has been in a bad condition for many months now. First, there were a lot of potholes and the road had caved in at many places,” said Kanwar Chawla, one of the first residents to get possession of their homes in the society in April 2016. “We requested Huda officials to fix it and they resolved it, but other problems emerged later after they constructed the stormwater drain. Huda only responds after we send delegations to them or call senior officials from Chandigarh to get work done,” he added.
 
 “For the last 18 months, we have been following up with Huda officials over one problem or the other. Nearly half of the road is filled with the earth that was dug out in October to make space for drainage lines,” Pravin Kumar, another resident, said. 
 
 “We went again to Huda and it expedited the construction of the drain, but didn’t cover it. The drain is dangerously close to the road. These areas are not even cordoned or barricaded. We want Huda to at least install reflective tapes or metal sheets on the drain to prevent accidents. Our security guards have to patrol the stretch in the evening,” he added.
 
 Huda executive engineer Shaveta Sharma Nagarkoti, the official with whom the residents were in touch regarding this issue, told TOI she “couldn’t immediately map out the location of area”, but promised that residents should contact her and their issues would be dutifully resolved.
 
