 is all set to return to acting two years after her marriage with actor  . Last seen on 'Udann', she will soon join the cast of 'Laado — Veerpur Ki Mardaani'. Talking about her break, she says, “I was never away. I shot for the pilots of a couple of shows and was shortlisted for a few projects as well, but things didn’t materialise because of various reasons. I was at it, but probably, the time wasn’t right.”

 'Laado 2' has undergone several changes in the recent past, including Meghna Malik’s character dying within a month since its launch and the introduction of a new male lead opposite Avika Gor. Ask Vinny if she was apprehensive about the future of her character and she replies, “Honestly, I have not followed the show. I have worked with the production house previously. It seemed like an interesting character and a good show to be associated with. At this point, I am just eager to be back in action and give my 100 per cent to the role. I am just preparing myself to get over my habit of chilling and resting at home and it’s going to be a bit of hard work to get out of that mould. There is a feeling of nervousness and excitement, as acting is my passion; it’s almost like meditation for me. I am just focussing on the positive aspect of it. I wanted to be back with a good show, and here I am.”
 
 Vinny’s excitement is understandable, but there is a catch. Well, she will be pitted against her husband Dheeraj, whose show ' ' airs at the same time as hers. So, is there a feeling of rivalry at home? She laughs, “Not at all. In fact, we joke about it. Just the other day, we were laughing about the fact that we will fight over who gets the remote and watches which show. We finally agreed that we will watch each other’s shows on alternate days. Dheeraj is happy for me, as he knows how much I love acting.” 
 
 And how different are they as actors? “We are very different and there is a lot to learn from each other. I feel that Dheeraj is amazing at romance, while I am good in emotional scenes,” she signs off.
 
