

 Abhinay Deo’s dark comedy drama 'Blackmail' boasts of an ensemble cast of a bunch of talented actors, including Irrfan Khan, Kirti Kulhari, Arunoday Singh, Divya Dutta, Omi Vaidya, Anuja Sathe, Pradhuman Singh Mall and Gajraj Rao.
 
 The album of six peppy tracks sounds promising with   helming four and the other two by   and Guru Randhawa. The first, 'Happy Happy', a hip-hop number, will have you grooving in no time. The combo of Badshah and Aastha Gill, who have earlier teamed up on tracks like 'Abhi Toh Party Shuru Hui Hai' ('Khoobsoorat', 2014) and the single 'DJ Waley Babu', has another popular song in the making. What makes Aastha’s melodious, young voice a winner, is the unique style of her rendition. And Badshah has not just sung, but penned and composed this one, too.
 
 The next track, 'Patola', is quintessential Guru Randhawa song all the way; it’s touted to be the Punjabi wedding song of the year. However, Guru’s original 'Patola', composed by Preet Hundal with rap by Bohemia, is the better of the two.
 
 The racy, spicy track 'Bewafa Beauty', created by Hindi cinema’s hottest music director-lyricist duo Amit Trivedi and  , has been sung by  . Amit-Amitabh are known for their soundtracks in 'Dev D', 'Udaan', 'I Am', 'Aisha', 'Ghanchakkar' and 'Lootera'. You know the lyrics in a song is a winner when it can hold you and tell a powerful story (in this case the entire movie) in just around four minutes. Pawni, who gave us 'Laila Main Laila' ('Raees') and 'Sweety Tera Drama' ('Bareilly Ki Barfi') last year, has once again given a mature performance that belies her age (26 years) — a seasoned rendition with all the nuances that this kind of a song needs. There has been a lot of buzz on social media about this track because it is Urmila Matondkar’s comeback song — the gorgeous veteran is back to the big screen after a decade.
 
 The next, 'Badla', begins with the powerful, matter-of-fact rendition by Amit and Divine with a rap by Divine and Dhaval Parab. Amitabh once more shows that colloquial lyrics seem to work better than traditional poetic ones. Another Amit-Amitabh winner, this one.
 
 After the intensity of 'Badla’, you get to hear a soft-melodious Amit in 'Nindaraan Diyaan'. The song begins on a soft note and then picks up pace gradually. In the end you have a heavy metal track that stays with you. Some fabulous guitar strumming and piano strains act as the bridge that joins the soft, slow part of the song to the powerful rock number.
 'Sataasat', the last track in the album, is another gem — a quirky, fun song that tells you a story. The genre is a signature classic of Amit. His refined sense of instrumentation is evident in this rock track.
 
 Overall, this is one album that you cannot ignore, especially if you are a contemporary music lover. 
 
 
