NAGPUR: The University Grants Commission ( ) has proposed to exempt PhD holders from National Eligibility Test or State Eligibility Test (SET) and more weight to score at under-graduate (UG) level during recruitment as assistant professor. The proposal has been made in draft Regulations (Minimum Standards for appointment of teachers and university staff) 2018, which was notified last week.

 Teachers and different forums have strongly objected to the proposal saying that it will ruin the quality of education and promote the cut-copy-paste culture during research. They have also pointed out that undue weight has been given to academic performance at UG level over   or equivalent test.
 
  Forum For Quality Education has warned of taking the matter to   if the UGC finalizes the proposed amendments concerning recruitment and promotion of teachers in colleges and universities.
 
 “After comprehensive survey and deliberation, the   had recommended need of NET/SET for recruitment of lecturers in higher education. Candidate having even MPhil and PhD has to qualify NET/SET if s/he wants to apply for the post of lecturer. Same recommendations were introduced in National Education Policy 1986 after discussion in Parliament,”  , joint secretary of the forum said.
 
 Assistant professor at Priyadarshini College of Education Dipendra Bendre said it would also be unfair on NET/SET qualified candidates if more weight is given to PhD and at UG level during recruitments. “A candidate having PhD will get a score of 30 while the NET with Junior Research Fellowship or equivalent will earn just 7 or 5 marks. At UG level, if a candidate has 80% above marks, he will get a score of 15 while shortlisting candidates for recruitment,” he said.
 
 Bendre added that this would only extend undue favour to PhD degree, which had lost relevance in 1986, as stated by the Mehrotra committee.
 
 Talking about the importance of NET/SET, the forum said, “In order to strengthen quality of higher education and recruitment of quality teachers, all aspirants for lectureship are supposed to pass a national qualifying exam. Such test removes disparities in standard of examination at masters level between different universities.”
 
 Bendre added that NET/SET qualification has brought all PG students at one level. “Unfortunately, UGC and universities are buckling under pressure of some teachers and unions by giving exemption to PhD holders,” he said.
 
