GURUGRAM: Chief minister   on Thursday refuted all   about the waste-to-energy plant (WTP)to be set up in Bandhwari by  , calling such concerns a matter of perception. He said there was no solid base for the issues raised with regards to the plant.

 When TOI asked the chief minister why the state government was investing in a technology that has failed to yield results worldwide, Khattar said that the models of waste-to-energy plants were different from each other, adding that the one adopted by the Haryana government had all necessary clearances. He said the government was sure the WTE would not cause any   problems.
 
 On the claims of contamination of water in the area around the Bandhwari waste treatment plant, Khattar said, “We cannot undo the damage that has been already done. We can, however, take measures to ensure that no further damage is done.”
 
 The chief minister said that his team was constantly in touch with people in the seven villages around the Bandhwari waste plant. However, these villagers had to wait for nearly eight hours to meet the chief minister on Wednesday to talk about their concerns on the upcoming waste-to-energy plant. They were called for the meet with Khattar only after they called a protest against the inauguration of the plant.
 
 Pitching in, GMDA CEO Umashankar said that a leachate treatment plant was under construction and that would ensure that the leachate from the Bandhwari plant was treated and did not seep into the groundwater. According to the officials of Ecogreen Energy, the leachate treatment plant is almost ready and will start functioning soon. The total cost of the plant is Rs 3.5 crore and the leachate would be treated in a five-stage process.
 
 The CM was also questioned as to why villagers and environmentalists weren’t given a chance to express their concerns at the public hearing conducted by Haryana State Pollution Control Board on March 21 but he refused to comment on it.
 
 Minister of urban local bodies Kavita Jain said at the meeting that the WTE model to be used this time was different from the earlier one and the appointed agency would be paid only for generating electricity. “The tipping fee is being paid until the agency starts electricity production,” she said.
 
 
