HYDERABAD: Justice A V Sesha Sai of the Hyderabad HC on Thursday suspended the order of the Ombudsman that dethroned the president and secretary of Hyderabad Cricket Association (HCA) from their posts citing conflict of interest and involvement in a criminal case. The judge was hearing two separate pleas filed by   President G Vivekanand and secretary Sesh Narayan.

 
 Appearing for Vivekanand, senior counsel P Sri Raghu Ram told HC that   Justice (retd) L   pointed out that the cricket association has commercial agreements with Visakha industries in which Vivekanand is a director and showed this as a conflict of interest. The Ombudsman also cited Vivekanand’s role as state adviser as another reason for his disqualification. 
 
 “The Ombudsman can point out issues and ask the parties to rectify the lapses instead of disqualifying them straight away. The conduct of Vivekanand in the said issues does not fall under the purview of misconduct. In fact, Vivekanand himself had brought up the issue of his role as a director in Visakha industries and urged the Ombudsman to verify whether this constitutes as a conflict. As far as the post of Telangana state adviser is concerned, it is more in the nature of an honorary one and he got this post much before getting elected as HCA chief. Also, it is beyond the jurisdiction of an Ombudsman to look into such issues. An adviser post carries the rank of a cabinet minister, but he is not part of the cabinet. His role is to advise on certain issues,” Sri Raghu Ram said.
 
 Narayan was sacked citing a police chargesheet against him. His counsel   said, “Naming a person in a case does not attract disqualification. A conviction can attract such disqualification, but in that case, even charges were not framed against Narayan.”
 
 Scores of advocates appearing for the complainants who had raised several issues before the Ombudsman argued against any relief to Vivekanand and Narayan. The judge sought counters from all the parties and, in the interregnum, suspended the Ombudsman order. This will pave way for Vivekanand and Narayan to take over their post at HCA.
 
