Modern day living has its boons and banes. While we have much better food security at least in most parts of the world along with comfortable life and sanitation it's banes include over indulgence, sedentary life styles etc. What it is doing to us in the age of 40 onwards is seen in the younger generations as early as 2 years onwards. Type 2   which was the nuisances of older age usually post fifties is now seen in young adults. It has been seen that obesity and diabetes usually co-exist. The other conditions which may be found associated with obesity and diabetes is high blood pressure high cholesterol, impaired glucose tolerance, and metabolic syndrome. The persistence of behavioral issues like sedentary lifestyle and poor dietary habits also leads to orthopedic problems, sleep apnea asthma and fatty liver in these children.

 Are we headed to a world which is full of diabetics? It is indicated that one in 11 adults has type 2 diabetes, or about 415 million people worldwide. Our future depends on how we raise our children in the world of extra-large. If we can control childhood diabetes we may be able to reduce the burden of diabetes care in the future.
 
 Research has indicated that obesity can be ascribed to culture, genetics, environment, metabolism behavior and even personal family history. There is a clear cut connection established between Body Mass Index (BMI) and obesity. This is called early adiposity rebound. Parents should keep a watch for this in children around the age of 3 years as it has been observed that such children who gain fat at this age continue to become heavy through their adolescence right into adulthood. In a recent study carried out in King's College London BMI of children between age group 2 to 15 over a period of almost 20 years was studied and collated. Obesity and type 2 diabetes were clearly connected to each other. In this study the researchers were able to show that there was 4 times higher risk of a child getting diabetes if he or she is overweight or obese as a child. It is a study which points at us to look at managing childhood obesity in a world of plenty so that we can reduce the burden of managing diabetes.
 
 Lifestyle disease is prevalent in the whole world, it is high time to realize and work for it as we are the children we are the world, this beautiful earth won’t be that beautiful if we don’t care for it ourselves. 
 
 
 
 
