NEW DELHI: The president of the Pocket 40 RWA,  , R.R. Anand, spends a lot of time dealing with   of  ,   and   on EPDP Road, which was a residential locality originally but was notified for mixed land use in 2006. “Half of the road is like a parking lot. Our kids can’t play and the sick have to put up with loud noises till late in the night,” he says.

 The traders say they have paid several thousands of crores in conversion and parking charges but areas such as these have not been developed. The area between Veer Savarkar Road and Ramlal Verma Marg in Lajpat Nagar was notified as a commercial stretch. Commercial units have since increased to up to 90% but the promised infrastructure is not in place. Yoginder Dawar, president of the market association, says that Lajpat Nagar alone has paid over Rs 170 cr in parking charges. 
 
 “The corporation says that they don’t have land but two proposed sites near an MCD hospital and police station could have been used. Multilevel parking projects have not materialised for the past 11 years. Where has all the money gone,” he asks.
 
 In the past five years, the three municipal corporations have collected over Rs 1,700 crore as conversion and parking charges. “We are paying conversion charges for nothing. This money was meant to be used for developing parking space and the market. However, nothing has been done,” says shopowner Rajat Kapoor.
 
 The residents who have stayed put on these roads are mostly either senior citizens or caught in some dispute over ownership. One such resident, Veena Singh, says the notification increased the pace of commercialisation. “Even taking a vehicle to your own house has become a challenge. Our sewer lines remain choked due to commercial units dumping their waste in them. Those who could move have already done so,” she says. 
 
 South corporation officials say that an acute land crunch has prevented them from developing multilevel parking lots though they are now going to undertake redevelopment projects in all major markets on an urgent basis. 
 
 “We will take up 30 parking projects in the next 18 months and have cleared proposals for redevelopment of 80 markets,” said a senior official from the south corporation. However, in the past seven years, the civic body has sanctioned eight multilevel parking projects out of which only four are operational.
 
 
