GURUGRAM: At least nine ponds in Gurgaon have turned into cesspools of sorts, an   petition has revealed, highlighting public as well as administrative apathy that poses a serious threat to the city’s water bodies.

 As per the RTI response, two ponds each at   and Sadrana, and one each at Sikanderpur Bada, Garhi Harsaru, Chandu, Dhankot and   have been filled up with  .
 
 Sources said sewage from illegal settlements had been flowing into these ponds, rendering them unfit for human use. Besides, leachate from garbage dumped on the banks of the ponds had also been contaminating the water bodies.
 
 “As many as nine ponds are filled with waste water in a city that is left with very few natural sources and staring at a major crisis in the wake of fast-depleting groundwater tables. 
 
 “It clearly shows how much importance the authorities attach to these natural water bodies. 
 
 “The contaminated water bodies is, in turn, leading to the pollution of groundwater,” said Aseem Takyar, who had filed the RTI application.
 
 Earlier, local people claimed, these nine ponds used to be the main source of water both for drinking and other household use. But, rampant discharge of garbage and waste water has turned these ponds into stinking cesspools, spelling death for fish and other aquatic life too.
  
  
 “Over the years, the ponds have got polluted due to massive dumping of garbage and sewage. Today, the pond stinks so much that nobody wants to live around it,” said Sahdev Kumar, a resident of Dhankot village.
 
 The RTI response further says that there are total 51 natural water bodies spread across 20 villages, and most of them come under the jurisdiction of block development officers (BDOs).
 
 The villagers claimed that the ponds located near illegal settlements were the most vulnerable. “The number of slums has increased across the city over the years. And there is no proper drainage system in the illegal settlements. We have witnessed how a pond with crystal clear water has choked on garbage in Sikanderpur,” said Dhanush Shah, who lives in a township near Sikanderpur.
 
 Environmentalists said the contamination of the ponds could have a deadly impact on groundwater. 
 
 “The water of the ponds continuously seeps into the ground, polluting the groundwater. Thus, it is important to not only clean up these ponds but also analyse the condition of groundwater,” said   of NGO Save Aravalis.
 
 A BDO, on condition of anonymity, said, “Poor drainage system in villages and illegal settlements are the main reasons behind the pollution of the ponds. Now, the problem is that removal of illegal settlements is the responsibility of various civic agencies, depending upon their jurisdictions. Also, there is lack of funds to rejuvenate these water bodies.”
 
 A district official said, “The MCG has already rolled out a plan to rejuvenate a few village ponds. However, the problem is that it is difficult to maintain them as people continue to dump waste. We need cooperation from public to keep the water bodies clean.”
 
 
