TRICHY: While SIDCO’s trade centre near Panchapur and SIPCOT’s industrial park near Manapparai have attained crucial stages in attracting and promulgating investments in Trichy, the other long pending demand to establish a mini textile park (MTP) seems far from becoming a reality. Even though the scheme to establish a   in   was announced in 2015, no headway has been made to identify the required land. Sources in the state handlooms and textiles department said that Sethurapatti near   appears to be a possible site for establishing the park.

 With the western districts like Coimbatore, Karur and Tirupur considered as the belt renowned for textile manufacturers reportedly reaching a saturation point, sources in small-scale industries said that investors are looking forward to expand their presence in non-textile manufacturing districts such as Trichy by citing the availability of land and manpower. Also, Trichy witnesses a floating population touching two lakh people per day mostly due to its geographical location and also for the iconic temples situated here.
 
 Earlier in 2017, officials with the regional office of textile commissioner, functioning under the Union ministry of textiles asserted that Trichy holds vast potential to market textile products. Considering the positives, though the state government in 2015 announced that mini textile park sprawling over 10 acres would be established in Trichy, but little has done till now.
 
 “In Puthanampatti village near Manapparai, units with readymade manufacturing cluster are even exporting their products. Provided we establish a proper platform with financial and technical support for interested investors in textile sector, not just in Trichy but in central districts there is a possibility for textile industry to flourish,” president of TIDITSSIA, N Kanagasabapathy said.
 
 “Ten acres of land required for the textile park is yet to be identified and also the investment potential is yet to be studied,” an official source with handlooms and textile department said.
 
 Suggestion made for earmarking 10 acres of land in   industrial park in Manapparai:
 
 Provided no appropriate land was identified, industrialists here suggested the handlooms and textile department to seek adequate lands from 1,050 acres SIPCOT industrial park to come up in Manapparai.
 
 Three major investment catalysts for Trichy:
 
 1) SIDCO trade centre, 9.4 acres in Panchapur
 
 Status: SIDCO awaits enter-upon permission to commence construction works
 
 2) SIPCOT Industrial Park, 1,050 acres, Manapparai
 
 Status: Land acquired but environmental clearance needed to prepare layout for site
 
 3) Mini textile park, minimum 10 acres needed.
 
 Status: land yet to be identified
 
 
