NEW DELHI: Canadian Prime Minister   cancelled a dinner invitation to convicted Khalistani terrorist,  , after a photograph emerged in which the latter is seen posing with the PM’s wife during a February-20 event in Mumbai, reported ANI.

 
  
  
 Atwal, a member of the now-banned International Sikh Youth Federation, was convicted for 20 years in prison for trying to kill the then Punjab cabinet minister   in Vancouver Island in 1986. Atwal later confessed that he was the shooter.
 
 Atwal was also seen in a photograph with Canadian minister of infrastruture and communities Amarjeet Soni during the event in Mumbai.
 
 Following the controversy, the invitation to Atwal was cancelled.
 
 "We have rescinded Jaspal Atwal’s invitation (for dinner reception with   #JustinTrudeau in Delhi). We do not comment on matters relating to the PM's security," the Canadian High Commission said.
 
 The now-cancelled invitation to Atwal was to a dinner-reception in Delhi celebrating the Canada-India ties on the occasion of 
  .
 
  
  
 Atwal clarified his presence at the Mumbai event, where he was photographed with the PM's wife, Sophie Gregoire Trudeau, saying that he was in Mumbai on Business, reported Vancouver Sun.
 
 BJP MP Subramanian Swamy reacted to the invitation extended to Atwal. 
 
 “It was our foolishness that we didn't check his (Atwal's) background. The Canadians who say that they do not support pro-Khalistan groups, how did they allowed him?" He was quoted saying by ANI.
 
  The photograph comes at a time when Canadian Prime Minister, who is currently on a visit to India, has been criticised for being soft on pro-Khalistan groups based in Canada.
 
  
  
 
  Yesterday, Trudeau, along with defence minister Harjit Singh, 
  Singh in Amritsar.
 
  
  
 
 CM Singh had last year refused to meet the defence minister, calling him a "Khalistani sympathiser".
 
  Sources told TOI that Trudeau was initially reluctant to meet Amarinder during his visit to Amritsar but finally, the Canadian side wrote to the Punjab CM seeking a meeting with him.
 
  During the meeting, 
  .
 
  "I raised issue of Khalistan as it's the primary issue, as there is money coming in from various countries, including Canada, to Punjab to create this ruckus," ANI quoted Singh as saying after his meeting with Trudeau.
 
  A day before the meeting, the Canadian PM attempted some damage control, when he said at an event that Canada is strongly committed to "one united India" and is serious about cracking down on extremism.
 
  "Canada has been unequivocal, both myself, all my ministers, our government on a policy of one united India. We have, we have been very strong on that and we'll continue to be," said Trudeau.
 
