KOCHI/TRIPUNITHURA: The special investigation team (SIT), which is probing into the serial robbery cases in Kochi has taken one more person into custody from Bengaluru. Shameem (24), a native   was taken into custody from   by Ernakulam North SI   after tracking mobile phone calls by the cyber police cell.

 A 11-member gang had attacked and robbed an elderly couple in Pullepady and five member family at Eroor in Tripunithura on December 15 and 16 respectively last year.
 
 Earlier, the police arrested Arshad, Shehsad and Rony at a slum from   in New Delhi on Wednesday.
 
 The arrest was made with the help of Delhi crime branch. The accused robbed around 50 sovereigns of gold from the house at Eroor.
 
 “The accused, Shameem, reached India nearly two years ago and has been working as a rag picker in Bengaluru. He will be produced in the court along with three others who were held earlier from New Delhi,” Das said.
 
 He was taken into custody following a tip off provided by the three arrested. Meanwhile, the police team and the three accused will reach Ernakulam Junction by early morning on Sunday. “We will be interrogating the accused to find out why they chose Kochi for robbery and what they did with the rest of the looted jewels,” said Hill Palace CI P S Shiju.
 
 Meanwhile, it is learnt that eight aides of the scrap dealer Noorkhan alias Nazeerkhan, the master brain behind the armed robbery have been taken into custody for unfolding the modus operandi of the gangsters.
 
 “It has been suspected that these accomplice while roaming as scrap collectors sketch the targeted houses for their operation. After getting a detailed sketch of the houses, Noorkhan got into these houses with the assistance of his armed young aides. Two investigation teams are currently searching at Bangladesh – West Bengal border for tracing Noorkhan and his close associates,” he said.
 
 The police team had recovered small quantity of jewels from the three accused arrested from Delhi. The SIT comprises two assistant commissioners, five circle inspectors and 25 police personnel including cyber police. The SIT is attempting to nab the rest seven accused in the gang.
 
