NEW DELHI:   will lead India's 15-member squad in the Nidahas Trophy T20I tri-series starting March 6 in Sri Lanka. Keeping in mind the workload and upcoming schedule, the   has decided to offer much-needed rest to  , along with former India captain   and allrounder Hardik Pandya. Shikhar Dhawan has been appointed vice-captain.

 
 
 
 Rohit led India during the final T20I against South Africa in Cape Town which his side won, and also captained India in the ODI and T20I series against Sri Lanka in December, both of which India won. India have a long season ahead starting with the IPL before the team embarks on a long sojourn of England followed by a tour Down Under in December.
 
 Besides Kohli, Dhoni and Pandya, fast bowlers Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Jasprit Bumrah and chinaman Kuldeep Yadav, who have been India's star performers across formats, were also given a break. While Kohli and Dhoni were always in contention to be offered a break, Pandya's form with the bat has been questionable since cracking 93 in the first Test at Cape Town and promises to give the allrounder some time to fine tune. In Pandya's absence, the allrounder slot has been granted to Vijay Shankar, whose maiden India call-up came during the Test series against Sri Lanka 
 
 
 
 
 
 The likes of Baroda batsman Deepak Hooda and Hyderabad fast bowler Mohammed Siraj, who last year earned their maiden national call-ups during T20Is against Sri Lanka and New Zealand respectively, have booked a place in the squad. So has Rishabh Pant. The Delhi wicketkeeper batsman, who was sacked from state captaincy after having led the team to Ranji Trophy final, blasted an unbeaten 116 off just 38 deliveries against Himachal in a North Zone T20 League (Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy) fixture, leading his team to a crushing 10-wicket victory on Sunday. It was the second-fastest T20 century behind Chris Gayle's 30-ball ton.
 
 "MS Dhoni was not available for selection as he had requested for rest. We've kept in mind the workload and upcoming schedule while finalizing the team for Nidahas Trophy. The high-performance team has suggested that adequate rest should be given to our fast bowlers to help improve athletic performance, maximize rest and prevent injury" All-India Senior Selection Committee chairman  , said.
 
 The prominent performer to miss out was Mayank Agarwal who scored 2000 plus runs in the season. "Mayank has not been selected because we are following a pattern. Any domestic performer will have to play India A before being considered for senior team selection," a senior BCCI official close to selection committee told PTI.
 
 
  Rohit Sharma (Capt), Shikhar Dhawan (vc), KL Rahul, Suresh Raina, Manish Pandey, Dinesh Karthik (wk), Deepak Hooda, Washington Sundar, Yuzvendra Chahal, Axar Patel, Vijay Shankar, Shardul Thakur, Jaydev Unadkat, Mohammad Siraj, Rishabh Pant (wk).
 
 
 
 
