CHANDIGARH / NEW DELHI:   has granted nine universities from the northern region special status as part of its ambitious plan to give academic and financial autonomy to better performing central, state and private universities.

 
 Alist of 60 institutions from across the country was released on Tuesday, which included Panjab University, Chandigarh;  , Patiala; Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar; Rajiv Gandhi University of Law, Patiala; Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar and  , Kurukshetra.
 
 Jammu and   and University of Jammu have also been included in the list. OP Jindal Global University, Sonipat was among the private universities making it to the list. “If the autonomy means giving us freedom to do something, then it has a meaning. If autonomy means to generate your own income and the UGC won’t help institutions financially, there is a problem,” said Panjab University VC Arun Kumar Grover.
 
 Two central universities – Jawaharlal Nehru University, Delhi and University of Hyderabad are in the top category — along with state universities such as Jadavpur University, Kolkata, Algappa University, Karaikudi and Nalsar University of Law, Telangana
 
 under the “graded autonomy” scheme.
 
 HRD minister Prakash   said selected universities remain in the ambit of UGC but will have the freedom to start new courses, off-campus centres, skill development courses, research parks and any other new academic programmes. They will also be able to hire foreign faculty, enrol foreign students, provide incentive-based emoluments to faculty, enter academic collaborations and run distance learning programmes.
 
 As per the University Grants Commission regulations on “graded autonomy”, five central universities, 21 state universities and 26 private universities have been given this status. Also eight colleges have been given autonomous status under the autonomous colleges regulation of UGC.
 
 Autonomous universities with a NAAC score of 3.26 and above may start a new course or department without UGC approval, provided no demand for funds from the government is made. UGC, as part of ‘recognising autonomy is pivotal to promoting and institutionalising excellence in higher education’, notified the regulatory framework to facilitate better performing institutions improve standards in February, 2018. “The government is taking a number of steps towards granting autonomy to those institutions which have been performing well. It started with the passing of the IIM bill granting complete autonomy to Bschools,” said Javadekar.
 
 The colleges granted autonomy will also be free to set their own syllabus, hold examinations, carry out evaluation as well as declare results.
 
 In this case, only the degree will be awarded by the respective university. 
 
