NEW DELHI: The turnout at a little Pakistani stall in the Delhi   once again proves that literature doesn’t know any boundary. “Let’s leave politics to the politicians, the world of literature has never differentiated between the two sides of the border,” said  , the manager and distributor of the publishing house from  .

 The outlet at the international pavilion features modern Urdu literature that is not readily available online and is not published in India. “The idea is to expose the readers to newer things happening in  . Most of it are fiction and dramas but almost all of them have an underlying commentary on social structures and how these are changing with time,” said Alam. 
 
 Although the stall, located in Pavilion 7, is a bit difficult to find and its name, Children’s Books Publishers, is a little misleading, book lovers are managing to reach it by asking officials and guards. Most of the hundreds of visitors are students, especially those researching about modern Urdu literature. However, some are also looking for translated versions. 
 
 Sudhir Kumar, a civil services aspirant, came for modern Urdu poetry books translated in Hindi. “The interest in Urdu has increased a lot in the past few years. From festivals like   e Rekhta or Adab fest, the new generation is getting back into the world of Urdu,” Alam said, citing the example of selling all 100 books by poet   who was born in Amroha (UP) but migrated to Pakistan. 
 
 Novels by women authors Nimra Ahmed and Umeda Ahmed and those by Rais Amrohi, Abdullah Hussain, Inteza Hussain and Mumtaz Mufti are in demand while traditional powerhouses like   and Sheikh Sadi continue to bring admirers, the publisher added. Md Arshad, a student of Urdu, said that while the language was born in India, it has now acquired two slightly different styles. “Pakistani authors write a bit differently. It is like trying a different dish altogether.” 
 
 On whether the tension between the two countries is affecting the cultural ties, Alam recited a famous couplet by Jigar Muradabadi — “Un ka jo farz hai ahl-e-siyasat jaane, mera paigham mohabbat hai jahan tak pahunche (Let the politicians do what they want , my message is of love wherever it goes).”
 
 
