INDORE/MUMBAI:   offspinner  , who was one of the heroes of the team’s   triumph, had a surprise caller on Monday. It was  , the veteran Indian offspinner. The duo was   teammates for a couple of years.

 Harbhajan feels the 32-year-old Wakhare is ready to play Test cricket. “He has the ability to take wickets. It would be better if Akshay doesn’t play One-day and Twenty20 as he will have to change his trajectory,” he said.
 
 The offspinner’s hunch is based on the opinion of former Tamil Nadu batman S Sharath who is now a match referee. “He spoke highly about Akshay two years back having watched him in a couple of matches. I value Sharath’s opinion as when we were growing up he was one of the best players of spin,” said Harbhajan.
 
 The 37-year-old Punjab spinner watched Wakhare making Delhi batsmen dance to his tunes on television and called up to congratulate him as he “keeps in touch with him”. “I told him that he has done well and I am very happy for him. He is a good learner. Despite being a very good bowler himself, Akshay keeps asking about various aspects offspin,” Harbhajan told TOI on Tuesday, adding, “The victory is a great moment for Vidarbha cricket.”
 
 While medium-pacer Rajneesh Gurbani hogged all the limelight with his consistent match-winning performances, Wakhare kept chipping in with important wickets. The tall Vidarbha offspinner cleaned up India opener Gautam Gambhir — for the third time in six matches — with a slider. Gambhir was in great form and his wicket proved vital for Vidarbha as they managed to restrict Delhi under 300 after putting them in to bat.
 
 Wakhare ended the season as the fourth highest wicket-taker in Ranji Trophy this season. He has taken 34 wickets in 8 matches at an impressive average of 21.76. He has been a consistent performer for Vidarbha in the last few years.
 
 The offspinner played a vital role in Vidarbha’s success in 2014-15 and 2015-16 when Vidarbha qualified for the knock-outs. He was the highest wicket-taker in the country after the league phase in 2015-16.
 
 Last season, Wakhare picked up only 16 wickets. His performance hurt Vidarbha who failed to qualify for the knockouts. However, he worked hard on his fitness, analyzed his bowling and came back strongly this season. Wakhare also chipped in with useful contributions down the order this year, especially in the knock-outs.
 
 Having watched Wakhare closely for two years, Harbhajan, “He is a very good guy and talented off spinner. His ball has a lot of spin after pitching. He flights and has variations like a proper offspinner. Akshay has good knowledge about the game. He knows how to bowl to left-handers and right-handers. He is a great trier,” said Harbhajan.
 
