CHENNAI: In less than a week, actor   has created a political storm, even though he has not even unveiled his new party. 

 Political parties too offered mixed reactions, which were more or less on expected lines. Even before the dust could settle, Rajinikanth called on the ailing DMK president,   at his Gopalapuram residence - ostensibly a courtesy call to seek his blessings for a new beginning. He has since flown to   to participate in a Star Nite fund-raiser for the   building in Chennai.
 
 But, the storm the actor has left behind continues to brew. The fact that the star's political plans have not gone down well with the present day DMK leadership was evident when party working president M K   welcomed the star into his father's residence.
 
 Has DMK and its leadership become jittery? A full page article in DMK's party organ, Murasoli on Friday, written by its printer and publisher, S Selvam, has thrown enough hints on this. Interestingly, the article dwelt at length on the political rise and fall of Telugu actor   in the neighbouring state of Andhra Pradesh.
 
 Even though the writer did not mention the name of Rajinikanth anywhere in the entire article, there was enough indication on what politics in reality foretell about stars. Even though he lost, Chiranjeevi has become a lesson for many in political history - the article concluded.
 
 Who or what prompted such an article, that too about a star who launched his party in 2008, almost nine years ago? "There are themes that political parties quite often highlight to drive home a point. With Rajinikanth making his political ambition clear, it was natural for the DMK to react. Even   has reacted and each party has a way of doing it. Not everyone will know or remember history and it is natural for DMK to highlight it now and send a message to its cadres," said political analyst Gnani Sankaran.
 
 Journalist Sudhangan sees it in a different way. "Whether or not Rajinikanth succeeds in his political foray, his announcement has come as a shocker to the DMK, after the R K Nagar drubbing. Post-Jayalalithaa, DMK and Stalin were thinking they were the naturals to come to power. Entry of TTV Dhinakaran and his R K Nagar victory have given that thought a jolt. Now, Rajinikanth has become a threat to Stalin," he said.
 
 According to him, there's a question mark on Aiadmk's future. Whether the factions will merge or TTV will become a leader, only time will tell. "In this scenario, Rajini's entry will be a direct threat to Stalin and that is why DMK is reacting the way it reacted when MGR left the party,"said Sudhangan.
 
 
