Filmmaker   was shooting ' ' in Lucknow till recently with actors   and Shraddha Srinath. In an interview with us, Tigmanshu shared his experience of shooting in the city again and why Lucknowite Ali Fazal was the best fit for the lead role in the movie. Dhulia also expressed his views on the viability of single screen theatres and the apathy of the Indian government towards the film industry.
Tigmanshu, who had also shot ' ' with   and   in Lucknow in 2013, enjoyed shooting in Lucknow again. "Lucknow bahut zyada shooting friendly hai, aur isiliye yahan itni shootings ho bhi rahi hain. Yahan ke log bahut achhe hain aur tameez se baat karte hain. Woh aapse jhagda nahi karte. Yahi shooting aap aur kahin kariye, tab dekhiye! So, we can easily shoot here and even the government is helpful here. The experience of shooting in Lucknow has been wonderful," he said.
 
 
  
  Ali Fazal (Left) and Tigmanshu Dhulia at Ravindralaya in Charbagh (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui) 
 
 The story of 'Milan Talkies' is set in Allahabad but is being shot here. Ask Dhulia, why did he choose Lucknow lad Ali Fazal for the lead role and he said, "He once came to my office three years ago and it was a casual meeting and he said ‘I want to do the film you are trying to make’ and he went away after five minutes. Then I kept a track of what kind of work he is doing because he is one actor who has also got one foot in the West, which is good cinema. Ali’s training is good, he comes from a solid background as an actor and then because he is from Lucknow, I wanted to have that kind of attitude and lehja of a UPite." 
 He adds, "If I would have taken any other actor from some other place, it would have appeared a bit banavati. In Ali I found a UP ka bana banaya character."
 This upcoming film of Dhulia is a love story set in the times of the single screen theatres. But with the single screens being out of business at a rapid pace, Dhulia is of the belief that they will be back in business sooner or later. "I feel single screen theatres will come back in business again. I had predicted around eight-nine years ago that only big films will make it to the theatres, and middle-of-the-road cinema and small films won’t make it to halls. There's so much marketing and publicity cost involved... But then where will they go? Everyone won't go to the web. So, I feel single screen theatres will come back," said the National Award winning director of 'Paan Singh Tomar' fame.
 
  
  Tigmanshu Dhulia shooting 'Milan Talkies' at a cinema hall in Golaganj, Lucknow (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui) 
 
 
 Not very hopeful of the government coming to the help of the single screen theatre owners, Tigmanshu averred, "What will the government do? Government... whether old or new, treat cinema as a publicity tool. Take a hero and make him dance in the elections. But they don't take the film industry seriously, because of which our films are getting finished." He points out on how China manages its box office by putting a cap on the number of foreign films that release every year. "Every week, we have a big Hollywood film, and they are getting dubbed in various Indian languages. Our Hindi films can't compete and tik nahi paati market mein. China has got a ceiling of 27-28 foreign films that can be released there. But here any number of films can be released. Government is not bothered at all," added Dhulia. 
 — Abhishek.Shukla2@timesgroup.com
 
 
