LUDHIANA: A day after Ludhiana (west) MLA Bharat Bhushan   was inducted into the council of ministers in the Amarinder Singh government, resentment seemed brewing among supporters of senior   leaders and MLAs Rakesh Pandey and Surinder Dawar.

 Though feeling disgruntled, most of the leaders refrained from coming on record to show their resentment. Meanwhile, supporters of Ashu and local MP  , who is believed to have played a key role in Ashu’s induction, were jubilant with the move.
 
 However, whisper campaign has already begun within the party circles that with Ashu’s elevation, Bittu has emerged stronger and he is the new power centre in Ludhiana and the other senior leaders who are not with him are feeling left out.
 
 Speaking to TOI on condition of anonymity, a senior Congress leader said, “General feeling among the leaders and party workers is that no major decision concerning Ludhiana can be taken in the party without taking MP   into confidence. Although he has a clean image and enjoys good support, the high command should also take into consideration the suggestions of other senior leaders. Else what is the point in appointing the office-bearers, when they are not heard or not taken into confidence for even small decisions.”
 
 Senior leaders maintained that it was not healthy for the party when a particular group starts dominating rest of the leadership as the outcome could be “catastrophic.” They also caution that Bittu’s act of promoting Ashu by antagonising other senior leaders who have good support in their areas may have a bearing on his electoral prospects if he contests the parliamentary elections from Ludhiana again. 
 
 Meanwhile, elated supporters of Bittu and Ashu maintained that the Congress leadership has recognised the contribution of these two leaders who were instrumental in party’s victory in assembly elections.
 
 The fact that Bittu enjoyed patronage at the highest level had become apparent during 2017 assembly elections when his group opposed the candidature of former Union minister Manish Tiwari from Ludhiana East and got a ticket for Sanjay Talwar, who had won the assembly seat.
 
 Later in the municipal corporation elections too, Bittu’s group comprising MLAs Bharat Bhushan Ashu and Sanjay Talwar had a say in getting tickets for their favourite candidates and even got elected their close confidant Balkar Singh Sidhu as a mayor by sidelining heavyweights like district Congress president Gurpreet Gogi.
 
 Meanwhile, Pandey skipped the oath taking ceremony of the new cabinet ministers at Chandigarh on Tuesday evening. Talking to TOI, Pandey cited some personal work due to which he was unable to attend the programme.
 
 
