Nagpur: Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Wednesday, directed Panjabrao Deshmukh Agriculture University’s (PDKV) to handover all documents of its contract with Vrundesh Developers for operating and maintaining it’s Satpuda Botanical Garden. A move came after justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Manish Pitale asked the civic body on whether the developer had sought permission from it for constructing a restaurant, a gaming zone and other recreational facilities.  The court was hearing a PIL (WP No 185/2016) by Pramod Junghare, through counsel Ashwin Ingole, contending that the botanical garden is solely reserved for agriculture purpose and falls under the green zone. It commercialization would be a threat to biodiversity park, primarily meant for research and education of biology, zoology and environmental science students. In last hearing, the Akola headquartered university informed the court that it had annulled five-year contract with the private party for operating and maintaining it’s the garden. The petitioner contended that PDKV’s move to handover garden to a private party is causing huge losses to the exchequer as the government sanctioned Rs6 crore for the development of Biodiversity Park in 1995. Later, the botanical garden was opened for general public, students and researchers on January 1, 2013. Junghare said it was university’s duty to maintain the garden as it has rare species of plants. Situated adjacent to picturesque Futala lake, the entire area is favourite among bird enthusiasts and has unique flora. He added that the developer had also invited proposals for restaurants, gaming zones, adventure activities, ayurveda and wellness centre, contrary to the development plan, where there is no provision for commercial activities. The petitioner enquired with the NMC, NIT and PDKV on whether there is any change of user in development plan before appointing the firm, but didn’t get any reply. He prayed that the contract between the university and the Vrundesh Developers be cancelled and that the area around the garden be declared a green zone by civic authorities. Besides, PDKV, the state revenue and forest, and urban development departments secretaries, NMC, NIT, and Vrundesh Developers, were made respondents in the PIL.