DELHI/NOIDA: A section of cabbies registered with Ola stayed off roads in Noida and Greater Noida on Tuesday in protest against the alleged murder of a fellow driver in Delhi last week.

 The investigation, however, has not seen much progress and police are yet to register a case. Hari Narayan Parmar had responded to a booking and left his home in Noida in the early hours of Friday. His body was found on Sunday evening on a   plot in Alipur. DCP (Rohini) Rajneesh Gupta said on Tuesday the body had been sent for an autopsy and police were still waiting for the report. 
 
 Two drivers’ associations — Sarvodaya Drivers Welfare Association and Commercial Drivers Welfare Association — that have around 3,000 cabbies registered under them had called a strike in protest on Tuesday. The protests were sporadic and scattered as many of the drivers associated with Ola did not know about the strike call. Some drivers also approached the Prime Minister’s Office, seeking adequate security for them. In a similar protest on Monday, they had asked for Aadhaar-based stringent checks of credentials of riders who use the app. 
 
 In Sector 62 area, a cab with a Haryana registration number ferrying a passenger was stopped and overturned after the driver refused to join the strike. By evening, a number of drivers were detained.
 
 Commuters across Noida, Greater Noida and   complained they had to face long waiting periods because of the lack of cars on the road. Some who could manage to book a cab shared videos of drivers being told to join the strike. Stray incidents were reported from Sectors 62, 71, 75 and 49, where cabbies were forced to refrain from driving.
 
 Anil Pratap Singh, the SHO of Sector 58 police station, said, “Some cabbies asked their counterparts to stop their cars and join the strike. One car was overturned in Sector 62. The driver, however, did not lodge any complaint.”
 
 SP Soni, a member of the Sarvodaya Drivers Welfare Association, said some of them had submitted a memorandum to the  . “We have demanded that the company take details of customers too. The security of the drivers is at stake,” he said, adding that they had been assured their demands would be looked into.
 
 
