It has been a good year for 17-year-olds in Indian football, with the Indian U-17 team getting its first ever taste of the  . Recently, another 17-year-old celebrated a landmark day in Indian football, but off the field. All India   Federation President   recently unveiled the AIFF’s new scouting app, ScoutMe, created by Delhi teenager Kush Pandey. The south Delhi resident, who is a footballer himself, told us that he created the app to unearth talent from the hinterland and give back to the sport he loves.

  
  Praful Patel, President, All India Football Federation ( )
 
 In sporting parlance, scouting refers to the process in which trained evaluators and coaches travel to various parts watching athletes in action in local competitions to determine if any of them are good enough to be relocated to better facilities and given special training. Unlike the west, so far, scouting in Indian football has had no digital platform, which makes the task difficult considering the country’s size. Kush’s app aims to change that. The app – which was created by Kush during his time at the   Football School over the last two years – was formally adopted by the AIFF as their online scouting platform. The app enables scouts and coaches across various tiers and leagues of Indian football to discover, monitor, and report players from across the country, who they think are worthy of national recognition. “This will help create a database of players that scouts can keep in their records, making their job easier,” said Kush. The AIFF say they also plan to add a feature where players from remote regions would be able to send in their training or game videos. “It is not a replacement for physical scouting. But this will make our jobs easier as it will mean we will not need to be physically present everywhere. Local hidden talent will now have a platform for discovery,” said Praful Patel.
 
  
  Dependra Pathak, Special Commissioner (Traffic), Delhi Police
 
 The app’s 17-year-old creator is a student in Jaipur’s Jayshree Periwal International School and also plays football for the city’s football team. The idea for this app came to him after a game, he revealed. “A couple of years ago, I was playing a game for Jaipur against a small village team and we lost to them. I had assumed with our greater exposure and better training, we would win easily, but instead, we were beaten by a team from a village whose name I hadn’t even heard. That’s when it occurred to me that the real talent for Indian football lies in the villages and sadly, it does not get discovered. That’s how the idea for this app came to me. I plan to utilise any income from the app and the web portal to help underprivileged Indian footballers,” he tells us.
 
  
  Abhishek Yadav, Team Director, Indian Football Team
 
 
  
  Sanjeev Pandey
 
  
  Kush Pandey with Kushal Das, Secretary General, AIFF
 
  
  Geeta Pathak with Kavita Pandey 
 
  
  Jayshree Periwal
 
  
  
 
