At around 3.15 pm outside Andheri station, a few helmets come off to reveal crumpled Gandhi topis that exhale in protest. It’s tea time for nearly 30 dabbawalas here whose groins have stopped wincing after work for the last few years. Ever since they ditched the Family-Planning-symbol-resembling bicycle seat for the ample-realestate-offering second-hand motorbikes—a dusty, rusty blur of Bajaj Discovers, TVS Lunas, Honda Unicorns and Hero Passion Pros—summers have grown breezier, knees thankful and watchmen envious. Recently, in fact, a client in BKC who had just bought a second-hand Pulsor spotted the buff, tilaksporting   on his swish Royal Enfield and said half-jokingly: "We should exchange". The macho British bike wasn’t a gift from  . It manifested when Shivekar's various freelance gym training clients pooled in a year ago. “I feel like waking up now," says 36-year-old Shivekar who could not imagine spending a lifetime pedaling to deliver dabbas as his father did for 50 years.

 It’s this gene-defying sentiment that’s slowly threatening the Harvard-recognised image of the traditional, cycle-riding dabbawala. The urge to save physical energy and time coupled with ease of parking options in Andheri, Bandra and   is now compelling many young dabbawalas to buy motorbikes. If the modern have their snazzy bikes, the grid also boasts many pyjamaclad unlettered silvers atop utilitarian, gearless TVS Lunas, thanks to EMI schemes offered by local political leaders.
 
 At Andheri, though, many bikes lack numberplates. Some don’t have RC books. Allegedly, the dealer “double-crossed” the dabbawalas by giving them fewer bikes than promised. So, as of now, these vehicles are running less on fuel and more on goodwill. “Cops understand and let us pass,” says 28-yearold Sanjay Awari, an English-speaking dabbawala of nine years who poured his savings of Rs 14,000 into a used Discover 135 over a year ago.
 
 While their hardy, ancestral bicycles could carry up to 60 tiffins, the sturdy bikes score by lugging as many as 150 dabbas on a good day. “I now make a couple of bucks more than I used to,” says tall, 60-year-old S A Dhokale. The back-breaking journey has “made my hip loose,” he says in Hindi. The jolly senior wears a chequered napkin around his neck to keep his collar from getting dirty. He has bought a new pair of "goggles" to challenge the sun and also every time a watchman asks the price of the bike, Dhokale--who purchased it years ago for Rs 34,000--quotes Rs 40,000.
 
 Though the ride may impress strangers, don’t fall for the superficial picture of progress, warn dabbawalas. "Our expenses have risen," says Navnath Sawant, who switched to Discover 110 one because his earlier bike—a Luna--used to drink up petrol worth Rs 200 a day. Kisan Ghule—whose Luna has happy purple grip covers says he spends Rs 320 a week on bike fuel by cutting down on his cups of tea—from six or seven cups a day to four. "Why should I think less of myself when I run my household earnestly?" reasons Shivekar, who takes his family of four on outings on the bike though there is a logistical issue he is trying to solve at the moment. “My wife and I are both healthy.”
 
 Besides, the bike has its cons. It can't hoodwink traffic by mounting the footpath, say dabbawalas.   has preserved his bicycle. “In no entry zones, they allow bicycles but not bikes,” says Ghule, who also switches to a bicycle during lunch hour at Seepz. Besides, the bicycle is also a safer bet. Pulling up his pyjama to show off a scraped lower knee, Sitaram Pokale, 65, reveals that his bike skidded at Sakinaka. However, for cynical Nyandeo Mohan—who has seen four colleagues die on duty in his 25 years as dabbawala—such injuries point to bigger problems. "Prince Charles may have come and gone,” says Mohan. “We still don’t have life insurance or medical benefits or even pension”. Then as if on cue, walks by  . a silver-haired, silent dabbawala of 40 years who, as Mohan puts it, "uses neither cycle nor bike, only his feet and mind".
 
 Soon, though, such concerns give way to droll oneliners as caps get crushed once again under helmets and dabbawalas start to head home. When Sawant kickstarts his bike, a colleague teases him about not having a licence. “Should I show you the papers?” challenges Sawant. “No thanks,” co mes the reply. “I read them every day.”
 
