MUMBAI: Suhas Pednekar was selected over four others, including  , provice-chancellor of  . Yeole was a strong contender, but a complaint against his appointment at Nagpur, could have gone against his candidature, said sources. The tussle could be the reason why the announcement of the new V-C’s appointment was delayed by a week.

 
  
  
 
 
 The complainant against Yeole had even written to the VC-search committee before he was shortlisted for the post. The committee, headed by scientist  , had attached the complaint with their report submitted to the governor. A government source said there were six letters written by more than one person to the committee.
 
 On the contrary, Pednekar’s affiliation to the university system for several years would have worked to his advantage, say government sources. Anil Karnik, director, MU’s Garware Institute of Career Education and Development, V S Sapkal, former vicechancellor of Nagpur University, and P N Kondekar an aspirant from Jabalpur, were the others shortlisted.
 
 The V-C’s term is for five years or till he attains 65 years, whichever is early. Pednekar will turn 65 in September 2022, and therefore will serve as V-C for four and a half years. As principal of one of the city’s leading colleges for 12 years and four decades of association with the university system will work in his favour, believe his contemporaries.
 
 Pednekar, a professor of organic chemistry, has been advocating for green chemistry for over 10 years. He enjoys light music and even sings occasionally, say his friends and colleagues. He enjoys cricket and was a good batsman too, said a senior colleague, who visited him at the college on Friday to congratulate him. “Whenever he got time, he participated in cricket matches organised by the staff.
 
 While his wife is a history professor at a Mulund college, both his sons are in the US,” she added. Pednekar hails from the   region, and actively supports the cause of education there.
 
 
 
 New vice-chancellor Suhas Pednekar is taking over at a time when Mumbai University is floundering in an exam mess. It led to his predecessor being sacked, but Pednekar has welcomed the responsibility, saying it is a “big challenge”. Pednekar said his top priority will be to announce results on time to ensure students are not traumatised. Close to 46,000 students are awaiting their results from the winter exam, and the results of the ongoing exams will be due soon.
 
 Pednekar, who has been connected with Ruia College from 1984, claimed that his fourdecade association with the university will prove to be an advantage. Pednekar also graduated from Ruia in 1978. “I believe the problems we are facing are temporary, and we have to take the university ahead from here. I understand the (difficult) time at which I have been entrusted with this responsibility,” said Pednekar at his office at Ruia College on Friday.
 
 Since online assessment of papers is here to stay, Pednekar will have to ensure streamlining of work. “Examination work has to be monitored on a day-to-day basis. Technology must be integrated with human resources to get best results.
 
 Auditing should be done at every level. We will have to do a SWOT analysis first, understand our strengths and use it our best advantage and to overcome the weaknesses,” he said. He plans to divide the colleges in cluster and entrust responsibilities to the principals in the cluster. “We all have to work together and (I’m) expecting cooperation from all stakeholders,” he added.
 
 “It’s not good to keep any institution without accreditation for long, so applying for NAAC will be a priority too. I have also studied the parameters where the university lagged in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) and will work towards improving them,” said Pednekar. MU not only failed to figure in the top 100, its rank dropped from the 101-150 band to 151-200. The university failed miserably under the research parameter and Pednekar plans to work towards improving it.
 
 “Varsity is not just an exam conducting body but also about creation and dissemination of knowledge. Good quality research work should be undertaken at the university and I will ensure that infrastructural and financial support is extended to all researchers,” said Pednekar.
 
 Though some academicians claimed that his lack of association with the university’s academic bodies could prove to be a drawback, Pednekar said he has worked on the advisory boards of reputed institutions. He vowed to focus on building a good rapport with all the principals and department heads and keep communication channels open.
 
 He will seek the government’s help to fill the vacant posts at the earliest, he said. He also plans to encourage colleges to go for autonomy, favoured by state and central government. “Autonomy can give institutes a lot of independence. The government should only monitor if the freedom is put to appropriate use,” he said. Lastly, he urged all stakeholders to avoid sending bouquets or waste time in felicitations. “I understand my responsibilities. I would rather welcome suggestions from people,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 
 Soon after the announcement of his appointment as MU V-C on Friday afternoon, colleagues, alumni and students of Matunga’s Ramnarain Ruia College flocked to congratulate Suhas Pednekar, who has been attached to the college for over four decades as student, teacher and principal.
 
 “He was very sincere and serious as a student and very hard working too,” said a former college teacher, Kalpaga Raghuraman. “I have seen him as a student, a lecturer, then a professor and now he is the vice-chancellor. We are very proud of his achievement,” she added. “He is the first Ruia alumnus to have made it to the vicechancellor’s post,” said a senior colleague.
 
 Reeta Doctor, who retired 15 years ago from the college, was in attendance. “Knowing that he is an able administrator, I am sure he will do well in his new assignment. He believes in taking the group along with him. We have a lot of expectations, provided others co-operate and do not put hurdles,” said Doctor. Sushma Sathe, his former colleague from the chemistry department, said Pednekar is a progressive thinker and was very driven. “He has taken over a challenging position, but we are sure he will do well,” she said.
 
 T A Shiware, chairman of the Association of Non-Government Colleges, said: “He will get support from all the principals and co-ordination will be better. He will understand the processes and the shortcomings well and we are hoping the results will be announced sooner this time. It is better to have a known person on the chair.”
 
 Some principals were wary. “He hasn’t held any posts in the university earlier. His interaction with other principals is limited. MU administration is a different ballgame. It is a challenging role and everyone hopes for the best,” said a principal.
 
 
