Mumbai: A day after veteran anti-corruption activist   called off his indefinite  , his supporters said he had failed to secure a clear commitment from the   government. They blamed lack of   at all levels for it.

 CM  , instrumental in persuading Hazare to call off his  , said the octogenarian gave up his agitation in view of concrete assurances and positive consideration of his demands. 
 
 Hazare had demanded the appointment of a lokpal, a lokayukta in all states, electoral reforms with the right to reject candidates and the right to recall, abolition of GST on agriculture equipment, more autonomy for agriculture prices commission and the implementation of the Swaminathan committee recommendations, particularly the increase in minimum support price.
 
 Once a trusted aide of Hazare, social analyst Vishwambhar Choudhary said on Friday that Hazare’s fast came at the wrong time. “There was wrong planning; there was no credible person in his core committee with whom one could interact. Above all, it appears that even Marathi cabinet members in the Modi government, including Nitin Gadkari, did not attach importance to Hazare’s agitation. Barring reduction in GST on agriculture equipment, there is no concrete assurance on any of the demands raised by Hazare,” he said.
 
 Veteran activist S M Deshmukh said it was unfortunate most of the half-dozen cabinet members from the state ignored Hazare’s agitation. “A section of people were of the opinion that Hazare should continue his   so that the government is in trouble. But they did not know that the insensitive department was not concerned at all about the demands raised by him. During the entire week, no steps were taken to ensure that Hazare calls of his fast,” Deshmukh said, adding that the Modi government had no intention of turning Hazare into a national hero by accepting all his demands.
 
 Water resources minister Girish Mahajan, who was in New Delhi interacting with Hazare, said the NDA government was keen on resolving the issues raised by him. “The NDA government has given him an assurance in writing and it will be implemented in letter and spirit,” he said.
 
 
