Yavatmal: Imagine getting water for daily needs once in 45 days, that too in limited quantity during summer when temperatures have started to cross 45C mark. Difficult to believe, but this is a reality for people in Yavatmal.

 The district guardian minister Madan Yerawar had promised to ensure   to the city, with over 4.5 lakh population, from Bembla project by April 30. As things did not materialize, the minister extended the deadline to May 10. However, it is simply impossible to meet the deadline as around 4.5km-long pipeline is yet to be laid, say officials.
 
 Earlier, Yavatmal city was being supplied water from Chapdoh, Gokhi and Nilona filtration scheme. However, with Chapdoh going dry completely and Nilona set to follow suit, the water situation has worsened.
 
 Confirming that supply from Chapdoh has come to an end, SDO Swapnil Tangade said, “Gokhi water is limited and water from Bembla cannot be expected before May-end. In this situation, I urge the residents to be patient in the hour of crisis.”
 
 Though over 200 private tankers have been pressed into service to supply water by the administration, citizens claim they are being charged Rs800 to Rs1,000. This has become a lucrative business for a handful of tanker operators, the citizens complained. “I have settled in this city for over 45 years and never come across such a grim situation,” said a resident.
 
 Tempers are running high as the harried citizens are blaming authorities. On Thursday, a group of women marched to the office of MJP protesting against water scarcity. The staff literally abandoned the office fearing the protesters’ fury.
 
 The preceding monsoon was marked with scanty rainfall and it was clear that the district was heading for an unprecedented drought. However, Maharashtra Jeevan Pradhikaran (MJP) officials remained indifferent, say citizens. The MJP officials claimed to have started water supply planning in January 2018 as against the routine exercise of scarcity planning and budgeting in September.
 
 Interestingly, people’s representatives Madan Yerawar and Sanjay Rathod are vying for the credit for getting sanctioned central government-sponsored Amrut Yojana and allocation of Rs302 crore for ensuring regular drinking water supply to the city dwellers, which would be possible only if the project gets completed in 2019. The administration, in the meanwhile, has banned digging of borewells till further orders.
 
 
