Panaji:  , a member of Goa’s first   winning squad in 1983, was found dead at his residence at   on Wednesday.
 
  According to sources, Vasu, 61, was at the restaurant he owns in Calangute on Tuesday and is understood to have returned home after shutting operations for the day. When calls from several friends went unanswered the next morning, a couple of friends rushed to his Saligao residence where he was found dead in the bathroom.
  
  The former Sesa Goa defender is suspected to have died of a heart attack.
  
  Vasu, as he was popularly known, kick-started his football career with   Sports Club in 1974 after being introduced to the club by late Vassu Naik, a former Academica and Panvel player himself. Panvel had stunned Goan football by winning the Bandodkar Gold Cup against all odds in 1974, but that stunning feat meant Panvel lost some of its best players including  , Francis D’Souza, Alex Miranda, Dionisio Trindade, John Coutinho, Titus Fernandes and Rosario Rodrigues to big clubs like Salgaocar Sports Club and Dempo Sports Club.
  
  When Vasu landed at Panvel, he was a straightforward replacement for Coutinho. Despite being only a junior player – part of the Goa squad for the Junior Nationals in Coimbatore the same year – he gave a good account of himself and was tapped by Salgaocar a year later. Sesa Goa was his next destination and after playing his best football with them, he opted to sign on the dotted line for Mahindra & Mahindra in Bombay, now Mumbai.
  
  “The best I remember of Vasu was at the Santosh Trophy final in 1983,” said Arjuna awardee Brahmanand Shankhwalkar.
  
  Goa had a crack team at the 1983 championship in Kolkata and came up against hosts Bengal in the final. Goa’s back-four of Nicholas Pereira, Mahesh Lotlikar, Rosario Rodrigues and Custodio Almeida were in terrific form and had superb understanding. In the replayed final, however, Mahesh picked up an injury and had to be replaced after just eight minutes.
  
  “Vasu took Mahesh’s place and took everyone by surprise. He was a fine player but nobody expected him to strike such a wonderful partnership with Nicholas at the heart of defence, and that against a powerful side like Bengal in their own den. I call that a lion-hearted performance,” said Brahmanand, who captained the team.
  
  Goa held on for a goalless draw and were crowned joint winners of the Santosh Trophy for the first time.
