NEW DELHI: Cops probing into an alleged scam for the recruitment of a junior engineer with UP Electricity Board stumbled upon the crime   running the   ( ) examination   after a candidate spilled the beans in Ghaziabad.

 While the candidate had named Sonu Singh to be a part of the scam in his statement, cops couldn’t find any proof to nail him. However, they kept tracking him.a
 
 Sonu was found working with SSC at CGO Complex in south Delhi. He used to visit the house in Gandhi Vihar from where the racket was being carried out often, but none of his relatives knew it. Finally, a police team posing as the parents of a candidate hoping to clear the SSC examination reached Sonu’s house at Bhopura in Loni and sought his help.
 
 The operation went on for a month during which Sonu took the “parents” to the house in Gandhi Vihar where he introduced them to Gaurav Nayyar who explained the operation, SSP (STF) Abhishek Singh said.
 
 Nayyar asked them to pay Rs 10 lakh for helping the candidate clear the comprehensive high school-level examination. All the candidate had to do was to reach the   centre, usually a cyber cafe, enter his username, password and let the “solvers” do the rest.
 
 The exam centres are allotted by SSC through a private consultancy unit. There are three exam centres in Delhi operating at Patparganj, Vivek Vihar and Chhatarpur. The gang could remotely access systems that had   software installed. If a terminal was not accessible through it they would use a LAN. One of their solvers would be present at the centre to help out the candidate. This took place in the presence of an invigilator and a technical operation appointed by the consultant employed by SSC.
 
 “Nayyar claimed to be the chief coordinator along with his brother-in-law Harpal Singh,” said DCP (north) Jatin Narwhal. He coordinated with the centres, candidates and the solvers during the examination. Sonu would liaise between Nayyar and some SSC officials, whom police are trying to identify.
 
 
