There was a time when Kannada actress   was disillusioned with the offers she was getting in Sandalwood and had focused her energy on making a name for herself in the Tamil and Telugu film industry. But the actress turned things around in the past few years, and is, today, one of the busiest heroines in Kannada cinema. Not only does she have quite a few films in hand, including this week’s release  , but each project offers her something unique to do, which, she says, ensures that she is not typecast in one particular image.
In that sense, Samhaara is extra special to her, as she is not only the heroine in the tale, but the   as well. “Yes, this is the first time that I have played a character with negative shades. When I heard the story, I was very excited and felt special that I was being considered for a role that I have not attempted before. Often, what you first hear and what is brought to the screen is worlds apart, so you tend to have a sense of trepidation when you are on set. But with Samhaara, I never once feared that the character would turn out differently from what had been written. The scripting is just perfect, giving my character two distinct shades — in the first half, I am the innocent girl-next-door whom everyone will fall in love with as she is very likeable, while in the second, my role has an evil twist. The   song by music director  , which has been sung by  , embodies the character beautifully. This character was a far cry from the regular heroine roles that require you to only do song-and-dance routines and be the glam element,” explains the actress, adding, “Despite this kind of characterization, Samhaara is still a commercial flick, with a strong story.”
 One of Hariprriya’s most memorable, and slightly painful, moments from the films happened in the very first schedule — something she wasn’t entirely prepared for at the time. “I had been told that I had a fight sequence with Chiru ( ) and that I would be trained for about a week. But then things changed when the team mixed and matched everyone’s dates, and as it turned out, this sequence was among the first to be canned. I came to the set and was told that we were shooting the fight. My mother said that I should opt for a body double, but I prefer doing stunts myself. The scene had me doing a backflip, among others, and had it not been for my general fitness and flexibility — as I practice yoga religiously — I would have hurt myself badly. The sequence has come out quite well, but getting there was painful,” says the actress. 
 
