COIMBATORE: Near the city railway station, close to fire and rescue department, there is a bus shelter where not even a bus stops. Just 10m from there, there is another bus shelter near   that buses elude. An inspection conducted by regional transport officers, traffic police and the corporation officials in 2011 had found 168 such unauthorised bus shelters across the city. But the corporation has done little to remove them.

 
 In fact, in the last two years, 75 bus shelters were set up across the city even in locations where they were not required such as the one at  . “It was set up merely to collect advertisement revenue,” secretary of   K   told TOI. “On the contrary, there is no bus stop at Karuparayan Koil, where commuters suffer under hot sun.”
 
 Officials of the town planning wing of the Coimbatore corporation said 331 bus shelters were set up under public-private-partnership since 2010. Of them, in 2011 itself, 168 were claimed to be unauthorized as they were in locations where they were not required. Based on the report, the civic body conducted a drive and shifted 20 bus shelters that were blocking traffic. They also found 11 unauthorized shelters in the rural limits.
 
 Activists said that eight years after the report was submitted, the corporation had done nothing to remove them. “Most buses do not even stop at these bus shelters and they have been turned into auto stands. In some places, they have been turned into a hub for beggars and drunkards,” said a traffic inspector on  . On  , such a bus shelter is now being used as a parking lot.
 
 As per norms, to set up a bus shelter, the civic body should get permission from the owner of the road, such as the highways department. To find a suitable location to set up a bus shelter, the regional transport office, TNSTC and various departments need to be consulted. Only 150sqfeet area can be used for advertisement and the remaining should be used for social messages. The shelter should have provision for drinking water, dust bin and seating.
 
 “Most of the bus shelters are not maintained and the seats are broken. At some places, the seats are installed too high for us to use them as on Marudhamalai Road. More importantly, what is the use of a bus shelter if the bus does not stop there,” said R Latha, a resident of Vadavalli.
 
 However, town planning officer Ravichandran denied the existence of unauthorized bus shelters. “Officials conducted regular drives and took action based on complaints. Even for the 75 new bus shelters, we have received permission,” he said.
 
 
