NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi attacked Congress for the logjam in  , saying "democracy reached its lowest point in the   due to  " and urged party MPs to convey to the public how the main opposition had acted. 

  "It never happened in history when opposition interrupted and tried to stall the prime minister as he was completing his speech on the vote of thanks. Traditionally, opposition listens peacefully but the Congress and its supporters not only disrupted but also gheraoed me when I was speaking," Modi said on Friday while expressing anguish at the washout of the second half of the budget session. 
 
  Modi said he had refused to yield to the opposition and completed his one-hour speech to send across a message that the power of democracy was stronger than the whims and fancies of a few irresponsible political parties. "Loktantra zinda hai (democracy is alive), was the message I wanted to convey by completing my speech," he said. 
 
  With BJP asking its MPs to observe a day-long fast on April 12 in their respective constituencies, Modi told them to share with the people the "real story" for the unprecedented deadlock and "disrespect" shown to parliamentary democracy. "Expose Congress among the people about how the party has indulged in politics of negativity," he added. 
 
  Rural development minister Narendra Singh Tomar gave a presentation on 'Gram Swaraj Abhiyan', a month-long campaign for all MPs. Modi asked MPs to adhere to the campaign schedule and also rope in other political representatives including MLAs. He asked lawmakers to spend at least one night in their constituencies, preferably in Dalit dominated areas. 
 
  "No other party has shown the respect we have shown to Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar... this message must reach Dalit villagers. It will expose the negativity that the Congress has spread," Modi added. 
 
  Later, in a video address to party workers, Modi again targeted Congress, saying BJP was the only party to follow democratic values in the true sense and did not swear by dynasty and caste driven politics. 
 
 For BJP, the 'karyakartas' were everything, the PM said. "The karyakartas are the heart and soul of the party, whose sweat has taken the party to new heights. It is due to their efforts that we have the honour to serve people all over India and fulfil their aspirations," Modi said.
 
  Talking to reporters on the party's 38th foundation day, law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said, "The BJP is a big platform for national unity. It has one voice, one slogan, and one commitment - to make the country a superpower. Today, the BJP is a party of all Indians and the party with all-India presence." 
 
 Recalling former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee's lines that "the cloud will go away, the sun will come up, and lotus will bloom", he said BJP and its allies ruled 21 of the country's 29 states.
 
 
