KOLKATA: Homemaker Rama Mazumdar of Saha Colony in New Alipore has skipped her morning walk so that she can store water for drinking and cooking.

 Utensils have been piling up in Shoma Das’ kitchen as there is no adequate water to wash them.
 
 Shikha Das of   has been forced to buy water, which she is storing in big containers. The drums have taken up more than three-fourth of kitchen space.
 
 The water crisis in several pockets of south suburban and south-west Kolkata due to asnag in   on Saturday night has thrown the lives of thousands haywire.
 
 In affected areas like Behala, Parnasree, Manton, New Alipore, Tollygunge and Netaji Nagar, homemakers have been forced to alter their daily routine while the men are running after those who supply water at residences.
 
 “The water pressure is painfully low and the volume inadequate. Water is now so precious that I do not waste even a single drop and store water in every empty utensil. Earlier, water would get stored in the reservoir and we would take from there,” said Mazumdar.
 
 On Saturday night, the lid of a pump at Garden Reach Waterworks was blown away, bring water supply to southwest and south suburban Kolkata to a grinding halt. Since it happened late into the night, lakhs of residents were caught unawares by the shortage.
 
 “We had no idea about the snag till Sunday morning when we read it in newspapers,” said Sukala Roy of Subernarekha Apartments in Parnasree. “Since we did not have news of the disruption, we went about doing our daily chores but the reservoir was empty. Now we are barely getting water for drinking and cooking,” said Roy, 59.
 
 While the water supply was restored in some pockets of Behala by Monday afternoon, portions of New Alipore, Tollygunge, Netaji Nagar, Haridevpur and Ranikuthi are still reeling under the shortage. Used utensils have been piling up in the kitchen of Shoma Das in Netaji Nagar. “There is limited water and several chores to do, so we are rationing. If there is any water left after compulsory chores like bathing and cleaning the house, I wash utensils,” said Das.
 
 Many residents are being forced to buy water — that too paying a steep price — from outside because their taps have run dry. “Many people are getting water from other areas where there is no crisis and selling here. We waited for the supply to resume till Sunday evening after which we decided to buy water. Till now, we have paid close to Rs 800 for water,” said Shikha Das of Tollygunge.
 
