NEW DELHI: A day after securing a silver medal at the ISSF World Cup in Changwon (Korea), 10m air pistol specialist   got another reason to celebrate – he has been recommended for the   by the National Rifle Association of India (NRAI).

 
 
 
 
 
 Rizvi, who had clinched the gold medal in his maiden World Cup appearance in Guadalajara (Mexico), is among the four shooters recommended for the Arjuna Award. Others include double trap shooter Shreyasi Singh, who won a historic gold in Gold Coast, 10m air rifle expert Pooja Ghatkar and Gold Coast bronze medallist in the men’s double trap, Ankur Mittal.
 
 In weightlifting, Manipuri girls and Gold Coast CWG gold medallists – Saikhom   and   – have been recommended for the Arjuna by the Indian Weightlifting Federation (IWLF). The other lifter whose application for the Arjuna has been forwarded to the sports ministry is 21-year-old Venkat Rahul Ragala, who also won gold in the Gold Coast Games. Weightlifting’s chief national coach Vijay Sharma, who has been credited for turnaround in sport’s fortunes in the country, has been recommended for the Dronacharya award.
 
 
 
 
 
 Interestingly, Mirabai was recently conferred with the prestigious Padma Shri, the country’s fourth highest civilian honour, for her historic gold at the World Championships in California last year. However, she is yet to receive either the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna or the Arjuna. It would be worth recalling that Mirabai had earlier applied for the Arjuna after winning silver at the CWG’s Glasgow edition in 2014, but her nomination wasn’t considered.
 
 
 
 
 
 Similarly, Sanjita had been waiting for the honour, and had even dragged the sports ministry to the Delhi High Court last year after the awards selection committee ignored her credentials.
 
 In cricket, the BCCI has recommended the names of opener Shikhar Dhawan and women’s team opener   for the Arjuna. Dhawan is currently playing for Sunrisers Hyderabad in the IPL. Mandhana is on a run-scoring spree this year, accumulating 531 runs – including five half-centuries in the recent home series against England. She sits on a career-high fourth position in the ICC women’s rankings.
 
 In wrestling, the federation (WFI) has recommended the names of women freestyle grapplers Ritu Phogat and Jyoti. In the men’s freestyle, the names of Pawan Kumar, Vinod Omprakash and Sumit have been recommended.
 
 
