CHANDIGARH: UT administration is grappling with acute shortage of IAS officers as it is managing the affairs with only 9 officers. 

 Chandigarh administration is managed by officers from   (AGMUT), Punjab and Haryana cadres, who report to the UT administrator. As per the Punjab Reorganisation Act, 1966, the vacancies of officers are to be filled in the ratio of 60:40 from Punjab and Haryana, respectively. Till March, 2016, the administration had a strength of 18 officers, the highest in recent years, and since then, the strength has been depleting.
 
 Key posts like managing director of Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Development Corporation (CITCO) and Chandigarh municipal corporation commissioner are lying vacant from over past one month. Posts of chairman of   (CHB) and secretary personnel recently fell vacant. Due to shortage of officers, administration has been forced to burden some of the officers with multiple charges.
 
 In absence of officers, finance secretary Ajoy Kumar Sinha is acting as a secretary of as many as 16 different departments, which include agriculture, engineering, employment, estate/housing, treasury and accounts, finance, food and supplies and consumer affairs and legal metrology, planning, cooperation, information technology, excise and taxation, industries, local fund examiner, labour, and urban planning/metro. He is discharging duties of chief administrator, chief electoral officer and chairman, Chandigarh Housing Board.
 
 UT home secretary  , whose term has been extended till May 30, heading as many as 15 departments. Some of the key departments include home, law and justice, medical education and research, water resources, prisons, revenue, police, culture, science and technology and renewable energy, technical education, and environment and forests. B L Sharma has also been given responsibility of as many as 15 departments which include education, social welfare and women and child development, personnel, vigilance, sports, transport and hospitality.
 
 In absence of required workforce, the officers have their work cut out for them, and they are facing a tough time. 
 
 A senior officer said the shortage is affecting the efficiency of officers as it is humanly not possible to discharge responsibility of so many departments at a 
 
 
