Addressing the inauguration of " ,  " at DM College of Science, Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh said on Saturday that his government has been waging a war against drug menace in the state for the last eleven months. Meanwhile, Assam Rifles troops on Friday recovered 18,400 World is Yours (WY) tablets worth Rs 92 lakh from a woman at Khudengthabi check post near Moreh town.

  Rape accused on the run: Police have launched an investigation into the alleged rape of two women by a   jawan and a Kangrai ADC vice-chairman under   subdivision on Thursday night. Both the accused are absconding now. 
 
  Strike demanding NERIST director postponed: The proposed indefinite strike by All Arunachal Pradesh Students' Union and students' union demanding a regular director at the North East Regional Institute of Science and Technology (NERIST) has been deferred to February 27. 
 
  Police remand for arrested HPC(D) president: A Silchar court on Friday granted police remand of the top Hmar militant leader Sanate for ten days to facilitate detailed interrogation. Sources said a Lakhipur Police team, by SI Bimal Deb, had arrested the HPC(D) president on Wednesday night from a rented house in Tezpur. 
 
  Sonowal wants co-operation with Arunachal: Assam chief minister   said Assam and its neighbouring state of Arunachal Pradesh must work together for the overall growth of the region. Taking part in the celebrations of the Ali Aye Ligang festival and Solung festival at Mebo in East Siang district of Arunachal Pradesh, Sonowal said the northeast region must take advantage of the central government funds. 
 
  Gas collection station unveiled: A new gas collecting station was unveiled in Sonamura on Friday to accomplish the targets of NEEPCO Monarchak thermal power project. ONGC officials said the new gas station will help the organization to fulfil its target of making the region one of the most dominant hydrocarbon hubs in the country. 
 
  New judicial academy building inaugurated: Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Saturday inaugurated the new academic building of the Judicial Academy, Assam at Amingaon in Guwahati within the campus of National Law University and Judicial Academy (NLUJA). Sonowal expressed hope that this new institution would be a centre of excellence in legal education, training and research. 
 
 
