MYSURU: The district police have arrested one accused in a case of abduction and assault of a minor girl after a prod from the Prime Minister's Office. 

  The   was responding to a letter from the girl's father in which he alleged that police were dragging their feet in the matter and failed to follow the leads he had given them. The incident took place in November-end and the arrest within a fortnight of the February 13 letter. 
 
 The girl from   was allegedly lured by one of the youths who pretended to be in love with her. He abducted her and took her to Delhi and  , where she was molested by the man and his accomplices and then abandoned. District police claim there was no delay and that they had been following up on the case. A team has been formed under the assistant SP to probe.
 
 The 12-year-old girl's father said she had gone missing from a marriage hall in Nanjangud on the evening of November 29. After searching for her the whole night, her parents lodged a complaint at Nanjangud town police station the next day. Her father mentioned a phone number in his complaint, saying his daughter had repeatedly called up that number on his phone. Police could not trace the girl but a few days later, she called up her father from Bihar and pleaded with him to rescue her. 
 
 Two police personnel accompanied the girl's family to Bihar and returned with the girl on December 7. The girl told her family that she had befriended the youths while they were all working as labourers in Nanjangud. One of them then lured his daughter and took her to Delhi and Bihar. They molested the girl and later abandoned her. The girl's father alleged that the cops had kept him in the dark and said he would file a fresh complaint.
 
  "A month later, I wrote to the prime minister, seeking assistance. I got a positive response on February 13 from the PMO which directed the   chief secretary to take appropriate action," he said.
 
 In the letter, the PMO's section officer directed the chief secretary to reply to the petitioner and upload details of the action taken on the portal. 
 
 Additional SP N   said: "We were following up the case since it was filed. The arrest took time as the identity of the accused wasn't known. The girl's father is trying to exert influence and speed up the investigation without providing any evidence ." The probe has been handed over to the Nanjangud SSP.
 
 
