SECUNDERABAD: The row over the Army occupying the Trimulgherry football ground is still fresh in denizens’ memory. While the dust on the football ground has settled down, a fresh controversy has broken out over the civic authorities’ bid to take over a portion of West Marredpally playground spread over two and-a-half acres for road-widening. Taking a strong objection to GHMC’s plans to construct a bus bay on a part of the playground’s land, locals, young players and colony residents on Thursday took out a protest rally and said they would go all-out to save the British-era playground.

 
 
  
 
 
 As part of development works, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation wants to construct the bus bay close to the existing bus shelter adjacent to the playground. But to build the new bay, the corporation has to acquire a piece of land belonging to the playground. “The civic authorities are eyeing a part of the stretch at the playground for the proposed bus bay. The ground will not be condusive for matches once a part of the land is taken away,” senior cricket coach   told TOI.
 
 Rao, who has been coaching for over four decades, said this was the only proper playground for sportspersons in West and East Marredpally areas. “The decision of GHMC will seriously impact sporting activities, particularly cricket,” he rued. As soon as they came to know about GHMC’s plans, cricketers and young sportspersons assembled at the ground and shouted slogans. As slogans of “Save our playground,” and “We do not want a bus bay” rent the air, more youngsters joined in solidarity and marched ahead.
 
 Over 300 youngsters use the sprawling ground every day for practice and other sporting activities. Top cricketers like MAK Pataudi, Errapalli Prasanna, VVS Laxman, ShivalYadav, MV  , L   and   honed their skills on this very groud, it has also played a pivotal role in shaping up the international careers of triple Olympian Mukesh   and other hockey players.
 
 “The playground has a great history to talk about and it cannot be erased by apportioning a stretch of land for a bus bay. We are deeply distressed,” N Manian, a resident of the area, said, making it clear as to what the does playground mean to them.
 
 GHMC itself has been conducting a cricket coaching camp and a baseball camp for boys and girls for the last 40 years. “We are demanding the GHMC chief to immediately withdraw the proposal and look for an alternative land for the bus bay,”   said. While GHMC is planning to conduct a joint inspection of the area soon, OSD (sports)   said they will hear out all the stakeholders before taking the decision. “We know about the concerns of players, coaches and locals,” he added.
 
