A recent US research claimed that eating a mostly plant-based diet is associated with a lower risk of developing heart failure in people without previously diagnosed heart disease or heart failure. 

 Heart failure is a chronic and progressive condition in which the heart muscle is incapable of pumping enough blood to maintain it’s workload. Previous studies have shown that eating habits influence the possibilities of developing atherosclerosis. Atherosclerosis is narrowing of arteries and one of the major causes of heart attacks, strokes and heart failure. The research team studied if the diet can influence the development of heart failure in people with no history of heart disease.
 
 The study assessed five different dietary patterns and was conducted for four years. The author reported a 42 percent decreased risk of developing heart failure in people who ate a plant-based diet most of the time as compared to people who ate fewer plant-based foods. 
 
 Researchers took data from a wide study, the Reasons for Geographic and Racial Differences in   (REGARDS). Participants in the REGARDS study reported their diet patterns as follows: Convenience (red meats, pastas, fried potatoes, fast foods); Plant-based (dark, leafy vegetables, fruits, beans, fish); Sweets (desserts, breads, sweet breakfast foods, chocolate, candy); Southern (eggs, fried food, organ meats, processed meats, sugar-sweetened beverages) and Alcohol/Salads (salad dressings, green, leafy vegetables, tomatoes, wine, butter, liquor).
 
 Out of all these five dietary patterns, greater adherence to the plant-based diet had the strongest association with a decreased risk of incident heart failure; while other diet plans were associated with an increased risk for heart failure. 
 
 Guidelines recommend a dietary pattern that includes a variety of fruits and vegetables, whole grains, low fat dairy products, poultry, fish, beans, non-tropical vegetable oils and nuts along with a limited intake of sweets, sugar-sweetened beverages and red meats.
 
 
 
 
 
