BENGALURU: Parents aspiring for seats under the 25% Right to Education (RTE) quota for their children have been cautioned against a   dated January 16, 2018, sent to schools across the state. It says the process of enrolment for   is set to begin, but the academic year mentioned is 2017-18 instead of 2018-19. 

 The RTE taskforce has also warned parents to be wary of the age limit mentioned in the circular. “It says that children born between August 1, 2012 and July 31, 2013 can enrol for LKG admissions. But this is last year’s eligibility criterion. Scores of parents who picked up the circular from schools while enquiring about RTE admissions have been running from pillar to post to verify its authenticity. They have even shared it with RTE activists via WhatsApp. When we took a closer look at the circular, we noticed the errors,” said Nagasimha G Rao, convener of the taskforce, adding that how it reached schools remains a mystery. 
 
 The age limit for Class 1 admissions is also last year’s criterion. While children born between 2011 and 2012 are eligible for RTE admissions in 2018-19, the circular mentions the period as August 1, 2010-July 31, 2011. 
 
 
  
  
 
 The circular has triggered panic among parents who are queuing up at RTE centres. “We rushed to the nearest RTE help centre to get the application form and found numerous other parents waiting there. But the activists running the centre were clueless about the process having begun. On scrutinizing the circular, they pointed out the mistakes,” said Shanti N, a parent.
 
 What also surprised parents and activists was that circular was issued even before the department of public instruction made an announcement about commencing the RTE admission process for 2018-19. 
 
 It bears Dodaballapur BEO’s name
 
 The circular contains the seal and signature of the Doddaballapur block education officer,  , showing that it was issued by him. Rangappa clarified, “My seal and signature have been forged on to the circular. I have no idea whose handiwork it is and why it has been done. I have alerted the department of public instruction. The office is not allowed to send out any circular until the department gives the go ahead.”
 
 Unaware of sender
 
 The BEO has reported the issue to the department. No announcement has been made by the department on the commencement of the RTE enrolment process. A notification will be issued when we take a call. We still don’t know who sent the fake circular in the first place
 
 PC  , commissioner for public instruction
 
 
