BENGALURU: Over 3,000   employees gathered at   on Monday to protest the arrest of three of their colleagues in two separate cases last week. 

 While all 198 ward offices across the city were shut, health and education departments functioned as usual. Linemen, health inspectors, pourakarmikas and engineers were among those who joined the protest. 
 
  BBMP Officers and Employees Welfare Association president A Amruthraj said: "We will compensate for the public inconvenience by working two extra hours from tomorrow." 
 
  "We are here as our fellow workers were arrested in a manner which was improper. We strongly feel they were unfairly treated," said a BBMP employee present at the protest. While two BBMP officials were arrested after two pourakarmikas suffocated to death while cleaning a septic tank at a hotel in  , one BBMP engineer was held in connection with a building collapse in Bellandur that claimed four lives. 
 
  In a release, the association said both the building and the hotel owner had failed to provide safety gear to the workers who were cleaning the drain, and yet the BBMP officials were arrested. Similarly, in the Bellandur case, it was the property owner and contractor's responsibility to ensure the safety and quality of the structure, yet a BBMP engineer was arrested, though the civic body's role was restricted to issuing plan approvals. 
 
 "Before filing an FIR, police should seek a report from the Palike commissioner, which was not done in either of the two cases," BBMP chief N   said, adding that an approval is given by the BBMP based on the certificates issued by the registered engineer and architect, but if the material used is of substandard quality then the BBMP cannot be faulted. 
 
  Prasad, however, said BBMP officers are culplable if they don't stop work in case of violations. Officials can demolish such structures if repeated notices go unanswered, he said. 
 
 Addressing the protesters, home minister Ramalinga Reddy said: "Police should have first consulted the BBMP commissioner. However, officials should also carry out their duties."
 
 The  , however, criticised the strikers. "This is an insult to the two workers who died in the 12-foot-deep pit. The step taken by cops to arrest the official concerned is a landmark one, considering the gravity of the offence, and the need to ensure such a practice is immediately stopped," the union said.
 
  The workers' strike took centrestage at the BBMP council meet on Monday. Many councillors wondered what was the rationale behind initiating action against BBMP workers, when drains were BWSSB's responsibility. Mayor Sampath Raj directed   officials to conduct a survey of sewage treatment plants in each of the eight zones. 
 
  With inputs from Aditi Warnoolkar 
 
