NEW DELHI: The government has asked the Supreme Court Collegium to reconsider its recommendation to elevate justice   to the apex court but, in an unprecedented move, it has not yet returned the file containing official notings and chain of arguments, said people privy to the matter.
 
  Further, the government has not yet shared the   (IB) report on senior advocate Indu Malhotra with the collegium even as it has issued a warrant of appointment, the people told ET on condition of anonymity.
  
  “This is a departure from the guidelines, which state that IB reports have to be placed before the   before the government notifies appointments. The collegium has the final say on whether to accept the IB reports or not,” said one of the persons.
  
  The  , in case of recommendations from the bar, requests for an IB report to be placed before the collegium before it issues a warrant of appointment. However, in case of high court judges proposed to be elevated to the apex court, no report is called for.
  
  The collegium had on January 12 recommended that Justice KM Joseph and senior advocate Indu Malhotra be appointed as judges of the nation’s apex court. Justice Joseph, the chief justice of the Uttarakhand High Court, was part of a bench that quashed the imposition of President’s rule in the state in April 2016 in a judgment that came as a setback to the central government.
  
  On Thursday, the government approved the appointment of Malhotra but referred the case of Justice Joseph for reconsideration. Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad wrote to chief justice of India   that the proposed appointment of Justice Joseph “at this stage does not appear to be appropriate”. “It would also not be fair and justified to other more senior, suitable and deserving chief justices and senior judges of various high courts.
  
  Accordingly, the recommendation of Supreme Court Collegium for appointment of Shri Justice KM Joseph, chief justice, Uttarakhand High Court, as a judge of Supreme Court, is referred back for reconsideration of Supreme Court Collegium,” Prasad wrote in a six-page letter.
  
  The person cited earlier said that although the government referred Justice Joseph’s case back to the collegium for reconsideration it had not yed returned to the collegium the file, containing official noting sheets, detailed arguments or counterarguments, if any, justifying or negating the government’s position, and confidential papers on the Uttarakhand high court chief justice.
  
  
