Vakkantham Vamsi’s   and   starrer   is a much-awaited film thanks to its patriotic content. In the film, Allu Arjun plays the role of an army soldier who puts his duty to the country above all. The audio launch of the film was recently held in Military Madhavaram in   where every family in town has at least one person in the armed forces. 

 The jukebox of the films has six songs composed by the famous Bollywood duo Vishal & Shekar. First on the album is Vishal Dadlani’s Sainika, with the lyrics penned by Ramajogayya Sastry. The duo’s music and Vishal’s electrifying vocals elevate this number that has patriotic lyrics and a peppy tune. A refreshing change from typical Tollywood intro numbers, this number is a fun listen. 
 
 The hit number Lover Also Fighter Also with lyrics penned by Ramajogayya Sastry and vocals by Shekhar Ravjiani is a foot tapping number. The massy number has okay lyrics set to fun music, vocals and tune. However, in tandem with the music, one can imagine how the number will look like on-screen thanks to Allu Arjun’s dancing prowess. 
 
 Third on the album is Beautiful Love, sung by Armaan Malik and Chaitra Ambadipudi, with the lyrics penned by Sirivennela Seetarama Sastry. Armaan and Chaitra’s lovely vocals elevate this soft and romantic number with adorable lyrics. The music and tune too make it a pleasing listen. 
 
 Maya Song, featuring Arijit Singh and Ramya Behara’s vocals, along with Ramajogayya Sastry’s lyrics is another soft and romantic number with beautiful lyrics. Arjit’s Telugu diction seems forced, but his voice more than makes up for it. The folk touch and Ramya’s native rendition elevate the number that would’ve otherwise been lost in Arjit’s off-beat Telugu pronunciation. 
 
 Malavika’s Yenniyello Yenniyello is a festive number that is apt but has nothing much to write home about. The vocals, tune and music are so on-point, there’s nothing to pick apart here. Iraga Iraga, the last song on this album is sung by Rahul Sipligunj and Mohana Bhogaraju. The requisite ‘special number’ is the only number on this album that is full-on ‘Tollywood’ masala. High on energy with a foot-tapping tune, this one’s a winner.
 All in all, the album of Naa Peru Surya Na Illu India is a surprise, deviating from being patriotism-heavy despite the film’s subject matter. All the songs on this album stand out in their own way, but if forced to choose, we would go with Sanikia, Beautiful Love and Iraga Iraga as our favourites. Give this album a one-time listen this weekend; you might just end up being hooked to some of the tunes. 
 
 
