What is the common factor between Phogat sisters, Mary Kom and Sakshi Malik? They have all broken into male bastions and excelled too. Closer home, from power-lifters to wrestlers and boxers, some of the fearless dhaakad girls are shining bright in the fields that are considered to be men’s arena… 

 Gearing up for senior national championship 
 I started weightlifting in school but my father was not too happy about me getting into this  . He felt that it was boys’ game and I should pursue something else; my teachers supported me at that time. But now after I have won gold in junior Nationals and bronze in senior Nationals, my father is really proud. For powerlifting, we need to have a heavy diet but I can’t afford that much. I eat whatever is made at home and avoid rice. Currently I’m gearing up for the senior national powerlifting championship. For that, I never miss out on my workout and sweat out in gym for hours.
 —Shradha Nakhale, Powerlifter, 
 Shri Nashikrao Tirpude College of Physical Education 
 
 ‘Looking at the dola sholas, 
 nobody tries to mess with me’ 
 I was never interested in studies and was strongly inclined towards sports. Due to physical ailments, my father had to stop working. I started earning at the 17 to support my family financially. People around me would comment ‘Ghar main sirf ladkiya hai, kya kar payegi’. Despite all these hardships, I’m happy that my parents supported me throughout. I try to strike a balance between my studies, work and passion. I have brought two gold medals in world championships in powerlifting and now I have pinned all my hopes on Olympia, to be organised in Las Vegas. For fitness, I follow exercise and a strict diet, which includes, 12 eggs daily and one and a half hours of cardio exercises. I must add, looking at the dola sholas, nobody tries to mess with me. 
 -   Sheikh, Power lifter, Nagaji Maharaj Shararik Shikshan
 
 Dangal inspired me to 
 take up wrestling 
 Earlier, I used to play hockey and football but soon I found my calling in wrestling. Also, when I saw Dangal, I was even more inspired and took up wrestling seriously. I have represented university in various tournaments. Initially, there was hardly any coaching for wrestling but now I’m getting proper training and practising day and night to perfect my game to play at the senior nationals. 
 -   Dubey, wrestler, 
 Jyotiba College of Physical Education 
 
 ‘My ultimate dream is to represent 
 India in Olympics’ 
 I consider myself lucky as my father Arun Bute who is a Maharashtra State boxing coach encouraged me to take up this sport. I was introduced to Boxing when I was just 12. I have won a gold medal in 2010 in Sub Junior Women Boxing Championship and since then there has been no looking back. I have also represented my school nationally in school games federation. Now my ultimate dream is to represent India in Olympics 2020 in Tokyo. And to realise that dream, I’m rigorously practising daily and following a healthy diet. 
 — Mohini Bute, National Level Boxer, Swami Chakradhar College of Physical Education
 
 Sports director speaks 
 At University ground, we also caught up with sports director of RTMNU, Kalpana Jadhav. She said, “My journey began 42 years ago, when my father who was a footballer and a hockey player took me to Ajni Ground. I was in college and I would hang around with boys’ group and was tagged dabang and dhaakad.” She went on to add, “Struggle for women will always be there. Though these young girls look dhaakad, being a sports director at RTMNU, I make sure that they are safe whenever they travel to other cities for tournaments to represent our university. 
 
 
 
  
 
