It has been 10 days since the India U-19 team won the ICC World Cup in New Zealand. Celebrations continue for some of the players, while a few others are soaking in much-deserved attention, getting into the act in the ongoing Vijay Hazare Trophy. But for the junior selection committee, headed by  , it’s work as usual. The former India pacer has been busy spotting talent at age-group matches in Nagpur and Kanpur. The 48-year-old, who has also coached an India U-19 team to the final in 2006, said the World Cup-winning players are a work in progress.

 
 
 
 
 
 It is satisfying yes, but otherwise I don’t know. As chairman of selectors, I didn’t go for the 2016 or 2018 World Cups. What is important is to ensure you identify the right set of players, who work with honesty and dedication. That’s what I wanted to do. Even if we had lost, I would have been ok because I believe we have put together the best team. Of course, there were another 10 players who could have also played a part if given a chance, but we could pick only 15.
 
 
 
 The challenges are huge, in junior cricket no one player plays for a long period of time. The team combinations keep changing because there is a lot of emphasis placed on results from coaches and the state associations. It’s quite a nightmare actually, keeping tab. Also with the three-member committee - Gyanendra Pandey, Rakesh Parikh and I - travelling the length and breadth of the country, watching as many tournaments as possible in varying conditions, it is extremely challenging. That said, we enjoyed it.
 
 
 
 We had a certain thought process. The best players, not merely skill wise, but also with fielding ability and attitude, were observed. Credit is due to the junior cricket structure in India, especially for U-19. Thanks to this we could watch players in tournaments like the Challengers, inter-state and then inter-zonal competitions.
 
 
 
 There is a need to improve the U-16 and U-23 structures. I’ve suggested changes. For example, two years after I put forward the suggestion, U-19 cricket was played in coloured clothing and with a white ball in India. Normally they would play in white clothing and red ball, but that does not work. It makes it easier for them to play in the   (ACC) tournaments and U-19 tournaments.
 
 
 
 It is the process which is important and everything cannot be measured on the outcome. So, one of the reasons we won the World Cup is because our players were exposed to various conditions. Rahul (Dravid) has also suggested a lot of tours for the India A team as well. I believe that’s the way forward. Also, you can’t really judge a player based on his performance in Indian conditions alone because we know our conditions well. I feel the U-19 tournaments should be played on seaming tracks because it prepares you for bigger challenges. I wouldn’t say, since you are going to South Africa next month, let’s play Duleep Trophy on seaming tracks.
 
 
 
 It was very important. Rahul and I put a lot of time and effort into how to build this team, in terms of how to get the players get used to the conditions; the process of building confidence and helping them get used to playing at different venues. We put together a road map in which we wanted them to travel to places like South Africa, Australia and England, where they would get used to playing in different conditions and on seaming tracks. It did help them, especially when they went to England late last year and won the series there.
 
 
 
 Of course we did. We didn’t agree on everything. He had his views and vice-versa. We had a lot of discussions and both of us knew we were talking and debating for the greater good of the game. We also respected each other’s point of view.
 
 
 
 It came as a surprise that they were bowling at that speed (140km/hr). That said, they are extremely athletic and very good fielders as well. They did generate some pace, but I’m not entirely sure we could peg it in the 140 range. Having said that, their performance augers well for Indian cricket.
 
