GHAZIABAD: Hours after extended   with family and neighbours, an executive at a cellular services company and his wife, who worked with an MNC, were mysteriously found dead in the bathroom of their   on Friday.

 Police are clueless on how the couple died. The postmortem report puts the cause of death as “uncertain”. The two were found naked, with strips of tablets to treat blood pressure strewn near the bodies, police said.
 
 “Their viscera have been preserved for now and will be sent for forensic tests in Agra,” said Sachin Malik, the SHO of Indirapuram. The police are yet to receive any written complaint.
 
 Neeraj Singhania, 38, a deputy general manager with Matrix Cellular (International) Services Limited, and his wife Ruchi, 35, who worked with a US-based IT company in Noida, lived with his parents, younger brother and sister in a 3BHK flat in Indirapuram’s Gyan Khand 1. They have a five-year-old daughter.
 
  
  
 
 The police said the couple had celebrated Holi through the day on the roof of their flat and returned around 6pm. When they did not respond to repeated knocks on the door around 9.30pm, Neeraj’s younger brother looked through a slit in the window and found his sister-in-law’s leg protruding from the bathroom.
 
 Sensing something amiss, the family broke open the door. “They found the couple lying on the floor of the bathroom without any clothes. An ambulance was called and they were rushed to a private hospital, where they were declared dead on arrival. Their bodies, however, did not have any injury marks,” said Rakesh Kumar Mishra, the circle officer of Indirapuram.
 
 “Ruchi’s parents, too, had come from Vaishali to celebrate Holi in the Indirapuram flat. The birthday of Neeraj’s father Prem Prakash Singhania and the marriage anniversary of his parents-in-law fall on March 2. The family had gathered to celebrate the occasion,” Mishra added.
 
 Police sources said the celebrations had started early in the morning for the Singhanias. A roof-top party was organised and attended by relatives as well as neighbours.
 
 Abhishek Das, one of the neighbours, said: “Around 9.45pm, I saw an ambulance parked in front of our building. I rushed downstairs and saw Neeraj being taken on the stretcher and paramedics giving CPR (cardiopulmonary resuscitation) to Ruchi. I heard a doctor tell the family that the two were already dead and it was up to them to take them to the hospital. Neeraj’s family decided to go to the hospital.”
 
 The private hospital where Neeraj and his wife were taken informed the police around 10pm. The Singhanias had come to Ghaziabad from Bareilly many years ago. The couple got married in 2010.
 
