Nagpur: A 54-year-old grandmother and her 18-month-old granddaughter were brutally murdered over a financial dispute on Saturday. Bodies of Ushabai Kamble and her granddaughter Rashi alias Apeksha were found Sunday in gunny bags with their throats slit under a culvert near Jai Ma Durga Layout on road towards Vihirgaon village. They were mother and daughter respectively of Ravikant, crime reporter with a local news portal. His wife Rupali is a constable with city police. They were missing since stepping out of their Pawanputra Nagar home on Saturday evening. Police have arrested a grocer Ganesh Sahu, his wife Rupali, two brothers Ankit and Akshay along with cousin Siddhu for questioning in this connection. Prime suspect Ganesh had tried to mislead the investigation earlier and even joined Ravikant and cops in trying to trace his missing mother and daughter.  Ravikant too expressed shock when Ganesh’s name came up as suspect as latter had been courteous with the family and Ganesh’s mother Geetabai was a friend to Ushabai. “I used to purchase chocolates for my daughters from Ganesh’s shop. He behaved lovingly with them,” he said. Police have said prima facie murder appears a fallout of a monetary dispute over Rs 7,000. Ushabai, who a local financial scheme, was miffed with Ganesh who had defaulted on periodic payments as per their deal. Ushabai apparently severely berated Ganesh in presence of his customers. That angered him leading to the double murder. Ganesh’s parents had gone to Surat. Upon interrogation, he told police he killed them on the first floor of his home at about 6 pm and packed the bodies in gunny bags from his shop. Later, he took the bodies in his car and dumped them into a nullah some 3 km away.  Ushabai and Rashi were last spotted near Shiv Kirana stores run by Sahu family. Police cracked the case on the basis of the ‘last seen theory’ clubbing it with other evidence including blood stains in Sahu’s car which had been washed too. Later, the cops found blood stains in the first floor rooms of Sahu family including on ceiling fans. A piece of cloth used for cleaning the stains was also found in half-burnt condition on the terrace.  Ganesh, who has been made an accused in the case so far, has an offence of serious assault against him along with father Shivwaran and another brother registered at Sakkardara police station for attacking a customer at their hotel around two years ago. Police said Ushabai had left home stating she had to visit the jeweller shop to make some purchases. She had gone to meet someone in the vicinity before heading towards Ganesh’s shop. A local puncture repairer had also told police about seeing Ushabai and Rashi going towards Shiv Kirana shop. Many others in the locality affirmed to this. Later, some citizens told cops they had heard shrill cries coming from Sahu’s place in evening. Zonal DCP Nilesh Bharne and DCP Crime Sambhaji Kadam toiled till the case was detected. Bharne had ensured mobile forensic unit collected the evidence from different relevant spots.