He is known to be the B-Boy Flying Machine for a reason — this 20-year-old completely defies all laws of physics with multiple air flips and flying stunts. Meet  , who recently bagged his third all-India win at the BC Cypher India B-Boying competition and will soon be representing the country at the 
world finals.
 
 It all began in 2009 when   watched his first b-boying video online and fell in love with the concept. He has never learnt any dance form on a professional level, but he liked to look up videos of other dance forms and mix it with hip-hop. Since then, he kept learning more about the dance form online and spent the next few years honing his skills with the crew Funky Disorders, which practiced at a park near his house.
 
 Arif is a fan of AR  , and yet he is not into Bollywood music; the music genres he prefers are trap, rap, hip hop and funk music. He says, “I usually prefer funky rap music over breakbeat music when I dance.” The dance forms he likes apart from b-boying are contemporary, house and locking. In an interview with  , the young dancer talks about his recent win and how he is improvising his moves for the international competition. Excerpts:
 
 
 
 Whenever I’m stuck in any situation, I listen to music. It’s an important part of my life. I try to listen to multiple genres instead of sticking to one as it inspires me to create different moves. People generalise and club b-boying with just one genre — breakbeat. But I think that we should keep our mind open to different genres as it helps us become more versatile, stylish and to stand out from the rest. Our steps are made on toprock, which is also a part of breakbeat. However, funk music works best for b-boying and the best part about it is that it gives us more moves, styles and variations. I also think that hip-hop and rap work well because it’s a mix of slow breakbeat instrumental with rap lyrics, and that gives it a new character.
 
 
 
 The first time I heard of these dance forms was in mid-2009. I was an avid follower of karate in school. At the time, I used to practice karate outside my house. One day, while I was returning home, a friend of mine showed me a video of BC One 2005 competition. He showed me the similarities between karate and b-boying, and suggested that I go to the park close to my house where they were practicing the dance form. I went there for a couple of days, and they taught me some of the dance moves. After that, I would go home, research on it and practice. I felt a deep connect to the dance form, and decided to take it up.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 B-boying is a dance form that it requires a lot of strength and stamina. I had to upgrade my moves for the Indian event as the level of the competition is really high. I had to concentrate on strengthening my moves. There are various levels in b-boying —higher level, lower level and ground level. My moves are usually unique. I work on inventing new moves as I had to prepare for the higher level. So, it feels great to have won the b-boying compeition for the third time. 
 Since there this responsibility to make my family, crew and nation proud at the international competition, I practise everyday. I also watch old moves and dance videos wherein I analyze my moves, my mistakes and work on improvising it. In the afternoon, I head to the park and restructure my moves, making them more advanced. In a day, I practice in two sessions of two hours each.
 
 
 
 When I first started b-boying, I didn’t receive any support. People used to make fun of my family and say, ‘Look his son is dancing like a monkey’. My friends wanted to become pilots, engineers and doctors. So, when I decided to take up b-boying I was told I would not be able to achieve anything by taking up dancing as a career. It was a turning point for me — the moment when I decided to make a career out of b-boying. In 2015, when I participated in the first international b-boying competition in the country, I really wanted to win it. After that, the graph only went upwards, I also began travelling and earning. Now, my parents tell me that I need to take them around the world with me. 
 
 
 
 Youngsters who are into b-boying or want to be dancers have to believe in themselves. They should ignore those who discourage them from taking up dancing. Listen to your heart and prove them wrong. Just follow your dreams.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
