Panaji/Keri: Most villagers in Karnataka’s Mhadei river basin have been opposing its damming and diversion projects for over two decades, as the plans are likely to cause irreversible damage to the environment and large-scale displacement and loss of livelihood. With Sattari on its west, the Mhadei basin covers the north-western parts of Karnataka between Kankumbi near Goa-Maharashtra border and towards Anmod Ghat in the south on Goa’s border. The 200 sqkm basin in this region is part of the water resource-rich areas of the global biodiversity hotspot of the Sahyadris. While Goa and Karnataka are involved, the opposition to the diversion projects across the border began as early as 1998. The residents got wind of the government’s plans to tap the large hydropower potential of Mhadei river through construction of three dams on the main river, four diversion dams on its tributaries and other proposals. Former MLA of Khanapur, late V Y Chavan supported by the residents spearheaded the resistance, stating with a series of memoranda to authorities protesting the government’s non-transparent pursuance of the environmentally-damaging projects. “The proposed projects will destroy 5,000 acres reserved forests in Khanapur taluka. Villages of Kongla, Kabnali, Kiravale would be threatened and 4,866 acres of agricultural lands from Kongla, Kiravale, Pastoli, Gawali, Jamgaon, Nersa, Chapoli, Kapoli and Kabnali would be submerged, thereby rendering thousands of people landless,” he stated. “These projects have not benefitted us but disrupted our life and economy. The water will also be diverted to other areas,” says Arun Naik, former sarpanch of Kankumbi. Local citizens, activists and environmental groups in association with Mhadei Bachao Abhiyan (MBA), Goa launched a series of meetings in Belagavi, raising a protest over the projects. On March 1998, Nature Lovers Club of Belgaum wrote to Karnataka’s chief wildlife warden to protect 700 sqkm of pristine forest areas in Karnataka and Goa, home to the tiger and endemic flora and fauna. Others joined the battle and in August 2002, retired lieutenant general S C Sardeshpande, founder of Paryavarani, urged Karnataka to drop the Kalsa-Bhandura and Mhadei diversion schemes. “Implementation of any or part of this project will cause immense damage to remnants of the once pristine forests . This area is part of the very core of the ecologically-sensitive zone of the central Sahyadris - the very life sustaining systems of the Deccan plateau,” he stated in a memorandum. “They were discerning people who could understand the gravity of the situation and impact of the projects on environment, as also the resultant scarcity of water,” says Nirmala Sawant, former MLA and MBA convener. The residents of Mhadei basin— with large swathes of Marathi-speaking population—have been caught in the Maharashtra-Karnataka battle over the disputed Belagavi district. Historically, Belagavi has been part of Kannada dynasties. “We opposed the Kalsa-Bhandura project for nearly two decades through various fora due to massive destruction of forests and environment,” says Shrikrishna Prabhu, a retired educationist from Belagavi. Karnataka’s determination to pursue diversion projects in Mhadei without tapping its own resources has raised suspicion among the state’s ethnic minorities of the government’s intention. “There are plenty of water sources available in and around Huballi,” says Chetan Lakebailkar from Khanapur. Activists in Goa believe that the Mhadei basin residents watered down their fight, fearing a backlash. In recent years, even the Maharashtra government appears to have become conscious of Centre’s leaning towards Karnataka, according to press reports. “Maharashtra had decided to oppose Karnataka’s diversion projects and it has to be investigated who changed that decision,” says Arun Sardessai, a lawyer in Khanapur.