BENGALURU: The muck menace could once again rear its head in Bengaluru. Garbage contractors have threatened to stop lifting waste from Thursday, if the   doesn’t keep its word to resolve the row over pending service tax payable to the central excise department. 

 The BBMP council is meeting on Tuesday and Wednesday and is expected to look into the matter.
 
 “We will launch a dharna in front of the Palike office on January 11 if the council fails to take a decision on the issue of service tax. The contractors should not be blamed if garbage piles up across the city,” said S N  , general secretary, Garbage Cleaning Contractors’ Association.
 
 The contractors, in fact, wanted to launch the strike on Saturday itself, but decided to defer it because of the ongoing Swachh Survekshan campaign that ends in Bengaluru on Wednesday. 
 
 “Had the pourakamikas gone on strike amid the clean-city campaign, it’d have impacted Bengaluru’s ranking among Swachh Bharat cities. Both contractors and their workers didn’t want this. Now, it’s left to the BBMP’s to act,” said M B  , a pourakarmika leader.
 
 While services provided by civic bodies are exempt from GST, goods and services used by its contractors are not. For instance, a contractor need not pay GST towards the payments he gets from BBMP, but he has to pay the same when he hires vehicles for the work. 
 
 Once the garbage contractors came under the GST net, the Central Board of Excise Customs (CBEC) began issuing notices to them about the service tax they had to pay for the services they availed between June 1, 2014 and June 31, 2017.
 
 The outstanding amount runs into hundreds of crores of rupees. The first set of notices, sent by CBEC to 124 contractors last year, asked them to pay up 12.5 % service tax and 2.5 % cess on Rs 669 crore, their turnover in the previous three years. The contractors were told to pay 100% penalty on the due amount and 15 % interest.
 
 CBEC officials said the notices had to be sent as they had to close the accounts under the head — ‘service tax’ — as the tax had been subsumed in GST and there is no place for it in the new tax regime. 
 
 The contractors went on a strike last August, but called it off after the BBMP assured them that it’d talk to tax officials and resolve the crisis. BBMP commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad wrote to the CBEC but got a reply last week, saying the contractors had to pay up.
 
 “It’s true that any civic service provided on behalf of BBMP is exempt from tax, but the contractual agreement signed between the agency and the contractors say that the latter would only supply manpower and equipment such as tippers and compactors. Nowhere does it mention that the contractors are tasked with disposal of solid waste,” a CBEC official pointed out.
 
 A second round of notices served to the contractors has once again raked up the issue.
 
 
