HYDERABAD: In a major boost to the civil aviation sector and investment climate in the ‘City of Pearls’,   (GHIAL) on Friday announced a slew of new projects along with the next phase of expansion of airport infrastructure at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) in the city as part of the 10th anniversary celebrations.

 Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao laid the foundation stone for the expansion of the international airport in the city as well as India’s largest exhibition and convention centre and also launched its greenfield airport city –   -- on the occasion.
 
 Speaking about the expansion of Hyderabad airport, GHIAL CEO SGK   said while the capacity of Hyderabad international airport is 12 million passengers per annum, it is currently handling 18 million passengers per annum by increasing its process efficiency and usage of technology.
 
 He said to cater to the galloping demand, GHIAL will be investing around Rs 2,000 crore over the next two to three years to double its passenger handling capacity to 25-26 million passengers.
 
 It is interesting to note that the expansion activities are being carried out three years ahead of schedule. “Post the formation of Telangana state in 2014, Hyderabad has been witnessing rapid socio-economic growth and in tandem the airport has seen unprecedented growth of passenger traffic flow. Since 2014, the passenger traffic growth rate has tripled from 7% to about 21% year-on-year over the last four years,” GMR Group chairman GM Rao explained.
 
 The event also marked the launch of Hyderabad Airport City, which is touted to be India’s first smart, greenfield airport city. The Hyderabad Airport City will house a Business Port, Health Port, Education Port, Fun Port, Logistics Port and Aerospace Port, drawing investments in these respective areas. The Hyderabad Airport City currently has players like Tata, Amazon, Decathlon and Pratt & Whitney, among others, who have commenced operations there.
 
 This apart, the exhibition and convention centre at the Hyderabad Airport City will have a seating capacity of 12,000 and will be the largest convention centre in the country. This will give a major boost to the meetings, incentives, conventions and events (MICE) industry in the city, which has already emerged as a destination of choice for big ticket events and has in recent times hosted mega events like the Global Entrepreneurship Summit in the end of November 2017 as well as the Olympics of IT – the World Congress of Information Technology.
 
 The CM also released a stamp and envelope to commemorate the decade of excellence and the event also witnessed the signing of three MoUs on training programs between   and industry partners — Schneider, Volvo and Jaguar Foundation.
 
