GREATER NOIDA: A 10-year-old   was found loitering near the Mangrauli underpass on Saturday with a   dangling from the left foot. His   have told police that they kept him confined as he had run away from home several times in the past.

 According to the boy’s relatives, he had been admitted to a madrassa in Jewar a month ago and fled from there on Friday afternoon. The police gave the custody of the boy to his parents, prompting objections from organisations dealing in child rights that said the boy needed to be counselled.
 
 Residents near the Mangrauli underpass had first seen the boy, clad in a kurta-pyjama and skull cap, loitering on Fruday night and informed the police.
 
 On being questioned, the child told the police he had been abducted by some people in a truck near Palwal and dumped in Jewar. “The boy said two persons had abducted him from outside his home last night. He said he was chained on the way and later dumped in Jewar,” said Rajpal Tomar, the SHO of Jewar police station.
 
 When the police in Palwal were informed, they could not corroborate the boy’s statements. “There was no such location in Palwal as had been mentioned by the boy. We spoke to the boy again and this time, he said he had fled home in Jewar village,” an officer said.
 
 The boy’s father Munawar, a driver by profession, told the police they kept him chained as he had run away from home several times. It was not immediately clear if the boy suffered from some illness. “In the past, too, he had fled home without informing anyone. We had found him after several days,” Munawar said.
 
 The boy’s relatives claimed he had fled the madrassa on Friday afternoon and was trying to return home when the police found him.
 
 Satya Prakash, the programme manager of FXB-Suraksha Childline, said chaining the boy to keep him at home was illegal.
 
  “There is a need to look into the circumstances that led the boy to run away from his home or the madrassa. The boy may have faced an adverse situation. He should be counselled,” he said.
 
 Prakash said the police should have contacted Childline or the Child Welfare Committee before handing over the boy to the family. Kamal Dutta, a member of the CWC, said he had taken suo motu cognizance of the matter. “We will investigate the matter and take necessary action,” he said.
 
 
