NEW DELHI: Just past 10.30pm at   on Thursday, a police officer was explaining the modalities of police manning   at  , when he espied two helmetless youths on a bike and flagged them down. “We were heading for   to get some paranthas and expected to get past the barricades by mingling with the traffic,” one of the sheepish youths told TOI. “But we were caught because the policemen spotted us from a distance.”

 With criminals getting more desperate, even going to the extent of mowing down those posted at barricades, policemen deployed at pickets at night are extra alert, scanning the traffic carefully for possible incidents. They have also developed on-spot tactics to handle rogue drivers and stay out of harm’s way. Police officers claimed that these night vigils helped nab around 30% of the criminals apprehended last year.
 
 TOI visited some of the pickets in south and central Delhi on Thursday, where teams of three to five   scan the more than 20,000 vehicles that drive past them in the dark. They have adopted a system in which one group stands some distance from the picket to identify suspicious vehicles while the other waits for the alert from the colleagues before signalling such cars to halt. 
 
 Madhur Verma, DCP PRO, said that staffers posted at the barricades are advised to keep the other units nearby advised whenever they stop a vehicle. “We have integrated the check posts now to include personnel from the control room and traffic units present in the vicinity to ensure that the men flagging down a car are not outnumbered in case they are confronted,” explained Verma.
 
 Cops posted at a night picket near   said that drivers of eight of every 10 vehicles signalled to stop are irate. “It is our duty to calm them down and check them,” an officer said. “As we try to pacify them, a team member discreetly alerts a PCR team nearby so that they can respond to events like a driver deciding to flee the picket.”
 
 On an average day, Delhi Police puts up three-four pickets on every major arterial road after 11pm, but the numbers go up if there is a specific threat alert for a particular area. Night checks have been intensified on stretches that remain empty or have colonies around them, given that criminals use such routes to make a getaway. “We keep changing the location of the pickets to ensure that even regular road users aren’t aware of their daily patterns,” disclosed a police officer at Lajpat Nagar.
 
