MUMBAI: It is not just builders who derail projects. The Bombay high court recently found that a bank played a “collusive” role to try and deprive property buyers of their rights. 

 The HC pulled up the   for, prima facie, colluding with a builder to create a mortgage in its favour in a case where 300 shop buyers have waited for over five years for property possession; some had made bookings about a decade ago. Justice S J   restrained the SBI from seeking to exercise any right in its favour over the alleged mortgage, created in 2012 by the developer,   Ltd. 
 
 
  
 The property, an industrial unit in Kandivli, caused gala buyers “sleepless nights” as the bank had moved the   (NCLT) to declare the builder insolvent and get rights to the prime land to recover a Rs40crore loan, based on a mortgage. But in a relief to the buyers,   and others, who had moved court, Justice Kathawalla held that the NCLT lacks jurisdiction to hear the bank’s plea when shop buyers have alleged fraud in mortgage creation. “It appears, prima facie, that the SBI was also involved in the creation of a sham mortgage facility,” said the HC, based on “expired documents”. The judge agreed with Janak Dwarkadas, counsel for the buyers, that the mortgage is “invalid”. 
 
 SBI counsel Rohit Gupta had pleaded that the bank had valid mortgage and cannot be faulted for documents submitted by the developer. Many buyers had booked shops in 2009 in a building called Kamala Industrial Park. Possession was promised since 2013. 
 
 The buyers had paid Rs 67 crore to the developer and only Rs 12 crore remained to be paid. The land was the Kandivli Corporate Industrial Estate, Charkop, and its erstwhile owner was the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC). The developer constructed seven floors based on a “forged” commencement certificate (CC), the HC observed. An October 2009 CC was endorsed and attested by an SBI officer as being valid till the seventh floor “as verified with original”. The HC perused the original only to find no such endorsement. Only four floors were authorised. 
 
 “The actions constitute not mere negligence, but a fraudulent endeavour to create charge upon a land by Metallica Industries in collusion with the SBI,” said Justice Kathawalla. The HC was shocked at how the SBI disbursed a loan of Rs40crore in 2012 “despite the developer not fulfilling” 27 preconditions set out in its own sanction letter. The disbursal, the HC held, was “in gross violation of RBI guidelines”.
