CHANDIGARH:   Singh Dhahan is one out of the seven ‘A’ category dreaded gangsters in Punjab.

 
  
 
 Dilpreet, who hails from   in Ropar district, had escaped from Punjab Police custody in July 2016 with the help of his fellow gangsters while he was being shifted from Ropar jail to Hoshiarpur jail in a drugs case. On November 11, 2016, Dilpreet along with his accomplices, including Harvinder, alias Rinda, shot dead a rival  , Vivek Sharma, at Ropar. On April 10 last year, Dilpreet along with Rinda had killed Satnam Singh, sarpanch of Khurd village in Hoshiarpur district, outside a gurdwara in Sector 38 (West), Chandigarh. In another incident on August 7, 2017, Dilpreet killed one Desraj Singh in front of his family members after a minor altercation at Nurpur Bedi in Ropar.
 
 According to Punjab Police records, Dilpreet is a proclaimed offender and wanted in a number of cases in Punjab and outside the state. Most of these cases are related to murder, attempt to murder, extortion and cases under the Arms Act.
 
 Kaustubh Sharma, DIG, Punjab organized crime control unit, told TOI, “Identity of the person who made the call to the Chandigarh police is not yet clear. It doesn’t seem that the caller could have been connected with Dilpreet and the reason why the call was made is still not clear to us. Verification is still under progrees.”
 
 He said the Punjab Police have interrogated the driver and the Mohali police are in touch with the Chandigarh police. “We are not pretty sure how he (the caller) picked up Dilpreet’s name from somewhere,” said the officer. He added police do not have any real identity of the caller except his description made by the auto driver.
 
 Sharma said gangsters’ activities are an area of concern for the Punjab police and the state police are closely trying to work with as many agencies as possible, including district police, Chandigarh police, and even Haryana and Rajasthan police also where they are operating or they have some hideouts.
 
 
