LUDHIANA:   government will allocate half of its agriculture budget to the animal husbandry sector with a view to enhance the livelihood and profitability of small as well as landless farmers through pig and goat farming across the state in the coming years.

 Punjab state farmers’ commission chairman Ajay Vir Jakhar announced the same during a state-level session held to discuss better facilities for farmer and increasing livestock farming in the state at Guru Angad Dev Veternary University here on Sunday.
 
 Elaborating the issue, Jakhar said, “There is an excellent scope in pig and goat farming as both the species can meet the demands of the society for nutritional security. The number of pig farmers needs to be increased from 700 to 7,000 in the state.”
 
 “Moreover, members of the Progressive Pig Farmers’ Association should educate, motivate and support farmers of his area. The existing bank loan schemes should be redrafted in consultation with GADVASU so that the same may be submitted to NABARD for approval,” Jakhar said.
 
 He told the media fraternity, “For the treatment of animals, the OPD fees should be reduced in several prominent medical care centre as pointed out by some of the farmers. The Punjab State Farmers’ Commission will initiate a helpline number where farmers can file their complaints.”
 
 Farmers indulged in goat as well as pig farming participated in the session along with officials of the University and State Animal Husbandry Department.
 
 Dr  , vice-chancellor, GADVASU, revealed that the university will prepare four different models for viability of pig farming in the state. He also said that the university is competent enough to train new and existing farmers for providing skills in goat and pig farming. He advised goat farmers to bring goat milk after pooling to the university for pasteurization, packaging at university milk plant, which can be sold at affordable prices.
 
 Singh elaborated on the various initiatives taken by the department for pig and goat farmers. Sh Kamal Sodhi, Director, Agriculture Skill Council of India, Northen Region, discussed various steps taken by the Government of India through   for helping pig and goat farmers.
 
 
