If you were to turn on the radio, chances are that you will hear Neeti Mohan’s mellifluous voice every five minutes — she’s been that prolific when it comes to singing for films. While it’s her Naino Waalo Ne (for the controversial Padmaavat) that most of us are humming these days, Neeti’s been doing playback for Tamil films, as she puts it, “for quite some time now”, as well. Recently, the singer was recently in Chennai to perform with AR Rahman at his concert, and a while later, we caught up with her for a short chat. And so, this quickie has the Neeyum Naanum singer talking about performing with the maestro, singing in multiple languages, her fondness for Tamil songs, and more…

 
 Yes. I’ve been to Chennai so many times that it feels like my second home, now. And I’ve performed with Rahman sir many times, too. So, it’s like I’ve settled into it — even at the  , I have been part of his concerts twice, now. So, it’s comfort zone…
 
 
 I am a little familiar with the language now. But  , it’s a different language for me. So, when we sit with the music directors and lyricists, there’s always a language director present. So, as we form the lyrics, I know what’s it about, the emotions, the situation in the film, etc. Plus, it’s been a couple of years for me in the Tamil film industry, so I don’t find it very difficult.
 
 
 I recently sang for Anirudh and Imman — and I loved it. They bring with them an infectious, peppy energy.
 
 
 When people ask me this, I don’t really have an answer. What is it that I love about Tamil songs? I don’t know, but I have been drawn to Tamil music since childhood. Even when I sang Thiruda Thiruda, I didn’t even understand what the lyrics meant — for me, the music in the song matters a lot, you know what I mean? All I know is that the tune is beautiful and the melody is great, and know that both these things can make a song evergreen. And I have found that Tamil songs have both these in abundance. So, as much as I love to sing in Hindi and other languages, Tamil songs are special. And I must mention here, it’s all thanks to Rahman sir that I am getting to sing so many Tamil songs — he’s someone who’s a mentor in every sense of the word.
 
 
 It’s been 10 years now, and it still feels like a dream. He’s a mentor, teacher, philosopher. He’s someone I really respect, admire, as much as I do my parents. I feel blessed each time I am standing on stage with him or recording — I know I am living my dream. The fact that there’s an entire value system to music, and to life — I have learnt that from him. He respects his music so much, and still, he never tries to impose it on you. He is someone who lets you be yourself — which is the reason every artiste who performs with him gets to shine. If somebody loves a particular genre, he allows you to be that — all he expects is you sing in tune and be perfect in what you do. That’s what he does to all of us — lets us discover our true selves. So, we all take inspiration from him and his music.
 
 
 I think my preference is only that the lyrics should be great — be it a soft or a fast number, there should be no vulgarity. That apart, I enjoy singing enjoy all kinds of songs. I am open to every genre — something you can see if you were to look at my repertoire of songs. I’ve sung songs where I’ve had to cry, songs with a jazz base and light classical songs to name a few. Every genre has something very beautiful — it goes beyond language. So, I’ve never considered genre or language a barrier. For me, it’s always been about good music.
 
 
 Neeyum Naanum, from  , for sure. And then,   from Lingaa… These two are instant recall. Both are very different — the point is to be versatile and to be able to do justice to the track. Plus, I try to fit myself into the song — if it has to have a western touch, I do that; if it requires a Hindustani touch, I bring that in. I am a trained classical singer — so that comes naturally to me.
 
 
 I listen to Carnatic songs. Haricharan, Sid Sriram — I try to listen to them. I am intrigued by the raga and taal system of Carnatic songs. I want to learn. I am in love with Carnatic music, and my friend sings. And one day, I will learn.
 
 
 Recorded and live are different things. In the studio, you are like a painting — you are trying to design a song. There is an entire department working to make that happen — the music director dictates. The song then plays on the radio, or the TV and you see the song in context of the choreography, and the actors emoting to it. In a live version — the same song becomes a different thing. And so, I treat it differently. In a live, they have come to see you sing, not some star. And so, you have to perform the song, not merely sing. It’s your face, your body language, and then you also get the artistic freedom of giving them something more, in the sense that you can rework the song a little bit. And each time you perform live, you can sing a different version of the same song —this is definitely a different sort of high for a singer.
 
 
 I am recording more songs both, in Tamil and in Hindi — but I can only talk about them when they are releasing. I will be joining Rahman sir for his Vegas and Dubai concerts next. So, that’s a lot of travel on the cards for me.
 
 
 I think because of internet, people are able to release music online. You alone, sitting at home, can compose, sing originals, recreate covers — and release them online. So, talent has a whole new platform out there these days.
 
 I don’t see it as a competition, just that youngsters are getting more options to shine these days. They have more to choose from, and so, music even becomes a viable career option. This was not so a few years ago. Plus, if you ask me, I am an independent artiste first and foremost. Yes, I love singing for movies, listening to soundtracks, and doing covers, but I love creating my own music the most.
 
 
