GHAZIABAD: A   with a similar modus operandi in Delhi’s   helped the police team trace the gang that had abducted the HCL engineer on May 23 and rescue him.

  police said the gang was involved in several cases of robbery, kidnap and murder in Delhi, Ghaziabad and Noida over the past few years. Though they employed several tricks that kept them off the police’s scanner, the case that actually helped the cops trace the gang was the kidnapping of  , a resident of   in   district, on April 28.
 
 Khan was on his way to Hazrat Nizamuddin station to catch a train to Mumbai to meet his brother when a youth approached him and stoked a conversation. “This stranger gathered all information about Khan and his family. Soon after, a white Santro stopped near him and offered him a ride to Nizamuddin railway station for Rs 20. No sooner did Khan sit inside, he was overpowered by the two persons who were already inside the vehicle and taken to a dingy room where he was held captive,” a police officer said.
 
 The youth, in his mid-twenties, had later told police he was most likely kept in a room near a highway as he could hear vehicles speeding by the area at regular intervals.
 
 Khan’s brother in Mumbai was contacted on WhatsApp by his kidnappers and asked to pay the money. Over the 10 days that he was kept captive, the youth’s brother had deposited some Rs 2.3 lakh, which was withdrawn by the kidnappers in installments. He was eventually released by the kidnappers with an advice that he should “never take a lift from an unknown person”. “Khan was served non-vegetarian food before being released,” the officer said.
 
 Khan’s relatives had lodged a complaint with Mayur Vihar police. Ghaziabad SSP Vaibhav Krishna agreed that it was Khan’s case that helped them track the gang that had kidnapped the HCL engineer.
 
 “During interrogation, the three accused have confessed to carrying out at least 10 such cases of abduction in Delhi NCR. Those who were found to be not carrying ATMs were released in a day, while others were held in captivity for ransom,” he said.
 
 
