INDORE: Indore resident Kailash Verma’s resolve to carry out a “divine command” led to high drama in Indore zoo on Thursday afternoon. The 38-year-old got into the lions’ den “to teach them a lesson” — and came out without a scratch.

 But for the macabre possibility of what-could-have-been, Verma’s day turned out to be bizarre, even clownish — but a heart-stopping one for zoo staff. He leisurely munched on snacks in the lion den as foresters chewed their nails in agony.
 
 Verma, who lives in Veer Sawarkar Nagar, arrived at   around 1pm driven by “divine instructions to teach lions a lesson for attacking villagers”.
 
 Carrying a packet of snacks with him, Verma crossed a railing separating animal enclosures from the visitors’ area, walked across the buffer zone and climbed an 18-foot-high fence to reach the area where lionesses Megha and Bijli were resting with four cubs.
 
 Feeling hungry after the strenuous climb, Verma sat there, eating snacks, before making his next move. Luckily for him, by this time, the guards had caged the lionesses and cubs. He too was immediately taken out of the enclosure and shifted to   police station where he was questioned by zoo authorities and the police.
 
 Officials scanned CCTV footage and found that he had climbed to the highest point in the enclosure even as the guards frantically shouted for him to stop.
 
 
 
 
 Zoo in-charge Dr   said, “The man said he had seen lions attacking villagers on television and God had commanded him in dream to avenge the attacks. So, he decided to follow divine command and teach lions a lesson.”
 
 “Action will be taken against him under Wildlife Protection Act,” zoo officials said. Verma’s mother and brother arrived at the police station on being informed and took him home.
 
 “We will register a case against him if we receive a complaint from the zoo or forest authorities. Presently, no charges have been pressed against him,” Sanyogitaganj police station in-charge   said.
 
 Thankfully, there wasn’t a macabre ending like that of the September 2014 horror where a man was killed bya white tiger in full public view. 
 
 
