Ajmer: The   urban region is not showing signs of polarisation in this bypolls but focusing on issue-based election. People are discussing development works and comparing both parties unlike rural Ajmer, which is polarised.

 Chief minister Vasundhara Raje has asked BJP leaders and MLAs to go door-to-door to cheer up voters in city region. Raje got this hint while meeting heads of different castes and communities in Ajmer.
 
 After getting instructions from Raje on Sunday ministers like Kiran Maheshwari and Anita Bhadel went to ward 15 and meet people and also organized rally in Sansi Basti. All ministers deputed in Ajmer have been asked to meet people directly. Even Vasudev Devnani is making rounds of pockets under his dominance.
 
 Ajmer is an educated city. Agitation on Right to Information started from this place. Ajmer north and south constituencies have high number of BJP supporters but this time they are judging BJP by its work in Ajmer.
 
 Congress is finding support in city for pulling up BJP over half-finished work.
 
 Raje inaugurated the STP at Anasagar on Pushkar Road on August 14, 2016, however, the treatment plant is not fully functional as the city is not yet connected with sewerage lines. Also inaugurated on the same day was the laser show on Maharana Partap Smarak on Pushkar Road but it was shut down.
 
 There were several announcements like Ajmer-Pushkar tunnel, alternative road from the back exist of railway station, Swami Dayanand Saraswati Museum at Ajmer entrance, six lanes from highway to Ajmer, four lanes from Janana Hospital to Savitri crossroad. Most of them have either not started or the pace is slow.
 
 Ajmer smart brought cheer for residents but the cycle sharing stands in different parts of the city is the only achievement. The sanitary napkin machines installed under smart city are either closed or not functional.
 
 These issues were discussed in the meeting of Raje in Ajmer and sources said that Raje assured that these projects will be completed soon.
 
 Sources said that the major Hindutva project of renovation of Brahma Temple in Pushkar with entry plaza was stopped by the Archology Survey of India (ASI).
 
 A CT scan machine which was inaugurated in JLN Hospital is now closed. Hike in electric and water bills are some of the other issues concerning the residents.
 
 
