KOCHI: It is time for front runner Kerala to review and revitalize its health programmes. The NITI Aayog’s ‘Healthy states, progressive India: Report on the ranks of states and union territories’ shows that the state has not shown any improvement in incremental performance.

 Kerala is among the states that registered a decline in their health indices in terms of incremental measurement, with the score coming down from 80 points to 76.55 points, a drop of 3.45 points suggesting negative incremental index score and incremental rank of 21.
 
 
  
  
 
 Among the states which could not register positive incremental performance, Kerala is ranked at the bottom mainly as it had already achieved low-level of neonatal mortality rate (NMR) and under-five mortality rate (U5MR) and replacement level fertility, with performance stagnant and leaving very limited space for any further improvements. Additionally, Kerala also registered a decline in sex ratio at birth from base to reference year (974 to 967 females per 1,000 males).
 
 “We have identified the key problem areas and will soon take steps to rectify it. It is important to understand that it is not wise to rechristen a community health centre as district hospital. If this continues, we are going to be in trouble,” said health secretary  .
 
 The low birth weight (LBW) among newborns in Kerala has increased from 10.8 points to 11.7 points. Experts said that LBW amongst babies go up mainly because of child marriage, aged pregnancy and anaemic mothers. The immunisation program and institutional delivery have taken a hit in some of areas amidst false propaganda.
 
 Though Kerala has shown improvement in TB and HIV treatment, the fact remains that there are many states who have performed much better than it. Government had promised   in budget after budget, but as of now it is available at only eight hospitals in the public sector.
 
 In a state, where the government has time and again reiterates its commitment to improve public hospitals, issues like staff shortage and increasing out of pocket (OOP) expense for the patient continues to be a matter of concern. Normal delivery would require minimum 48 hours stay in the hospital and after caesarean one would require minimum 5 days. In Kerala, caesarean rate is increasing and with 75% of the population going to private hospitals, the   expense is set to increase further, making pregnancy a huge financial burden.
 
 “Seventy per cent of the healthcare in Kerala is delivered by the private hospitals but engagement with private sector is not happening despite talks about private-public partnership. Unfortunately, we are kept out of many of the government projects,” said Dr  , medical superintendent, AIMS.
 
