LUDHIANA: Khanna police on Tuesday night arrested five gangsters with arms and ammunition after they were planning a dacoity in the city at a secluded place. The police identified the accused persons as Surjeet Singh of Namdev Colony in Kapurthala, Harwinder Singh Dara of Garri Baksh in Kartarpur of Jalandhar, Jatinder   of Lahori Gate in Kapurthala, Sarabjeet Singh Sabba of Fatehabad in Taran Tarn, and Rahul Kumar of   in Hoshiarpur.

 Providing details, Khanna SSP Navjot Singh Mahal said a team of Khanna police at GT Road got information that five miscreants were present in a secluded room near the market close to the railway line, and were planning a dacoity in the city. He added that the police team raided the place and arrested the accused from there.
 
 A police officer said during a search of the accused persons, they recovered three .32 bore pistols, six magazines, 40 live cartridges, a knife, rod, and a baseball stick. He added that the accused were booked under sections 399 (making preparation to commit dacoity) and 402 (assembling for the purpose of committing dacoity), of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and Arms Act at Sadar police station in Khanna.
 
 Police officials said during questioning, they got to know that Surjeet, Harwinder, and Jatinder already had cases of peddling registered against them in Kapurthala, while Rahul had an assault case against him. They added that Surjeet and Jatinder were wanted by Kapurthala police. “Investigations are on in the case, and more disclosures are expected from them,” said cops.
 
 Meanwhile, Khanna police revealed that 14 special checkposts were set up on rivers and bridges across the state for 24 hours, as part of a huge state-wide campaign against drug peddling. Two special checkposts were also set up at   canal bridge and   canal bridge. Mahal said during checking at the Neelon canal checkpost,   police team tried to stop a silver-coloured   car, bearing registration number PB57B-5768, coming from Samrala side towards Ludhiana at 4.30pm on Tuesday, but the driver tried to speed away towards Doraha after seeing cops. However, he was caught by the cops after a chase.
 
 Police officials said the accused identified himself as   of Hoshiarpur. During checking, police recovered 200g of heroin from the left pocket of his trousers, and so he was arrested. Samrala police later booked the accused under various sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. 
 
 
