We hope to provide the best for our pooches, and we mostly blindly follow all instructions given to us by the veterinarian. But how do we know if the doctor is good for our pets or if he is doing a good job? Selecting a   can be tricky;   can’t tell you if they are feeling better. It takes a very experienced and qualified vet to diagnose problems and offer the right treatment.

 Most animals have have a very strong coping mechanism and will not show signs of illness until they are extremely unwell. Keeping this in mind, we should immediately seek medical attention if we see any symptoms. Consider a vet close to home as it helps during emergencies.
 
 You might also need to check if the doctor is available after clinic hours in case your   needs attention late at night. It will be nice if the doctor is available for home visits, and definitely available on phone for emergencies.
 
 It is important to do your research. Read reviews or talk to pet parents that have been consulting the doctor. Visit the clinic to see how the doctors and the staff treat other animals.
 
 If an animal is unwell, its immunity drops, and if the environment is not hygienic in the clinic, there are chances of the pet getting more infections. 
 
 Small clinics might not be well equipped. Make sure to choose a clinic that has high-end equipment. This will save you time and you will not have to run to a different clinic for X-rays and scans.
 
 Checking the qualification of the doctor is important. The veterinarian should have at least a masters in veterinarian sciences or animal husbandry. You should also consider checking his experience. 
 
 Once you select a vet, avoid changing as it is always advised to stick to one doctor. They know the medical history of the dog and doctors tend to take better care of their regular clients.
 
 Also, changing vets in the middle of a treatment can cause complications.
 
 
 
 
 
 Are you a proud pet parent? Have a cute cat story to share? Maybe your guinea pig is giving you trouble? Whatever is your creature companion, we are here to listen to you. Send your photos, queries and stories to timeslife@timesgroup.com
 
 
 
 
