KOLKATA: A man died and two others fell seriously ill after an alleged family suicide pact at their   apartment on Wednesday morning. The incident was reported from a second-floor flat on Ibrahimpur Roadaround 8.30am.

 
  
  
 
 Police said the incident points to a suicide pact by a woman and her two sons consumed poison as they could not repay mounting debts for which, they were being hounded by loan agents. But with one person dead and the mother reportedly serious, the cops are not ruling out other possibilities, including homicide, till the verification of statements and autopsy are done.
 
 “The victim was identified as   (38). While his mother — Sathi (62) — is stated to be serious at the MR Bangur Hospital, his younger brother — Arijit (28) — is reportedly out of danger,” said DC (SS) Santosh Nimbalkar.
 
 Incidentally, Anirban’s father  , too, had committed suicide by hanging himself in 2001 due to economic strain. Though no suicide note was recovered, items seized from the apartment suggests the family was staring at a financial crisis. “Anirban took a bank loan of Rs 25 lakh eight years ago, but found it difficult to repay after his electrical goods shop failed to take off. Furthermore, the loans his father had taken several years ago were also pending,” said an officer.
 
 Arijit and his maternal uncle, Pradip Bose, told the investigators that Anirban had recently bought some over-the-counter pesticides. The trio consumed it around 2.30am on Tuesday and became unconscious for several hours. Arijit regained consciousness on Wednesday morning and called up Bose, who lives nearby. Bose informed the cops, who broke open the apartment door to find the trio and took them to the hospital — where Anirban was declared dead.
 
 Locals said Anirban alias Bumba was popular in the neighbourhood. “He dropped out of school to help his mother with their shop. He ensured his younger brother completed his studies and joined a private firm. But, of late, he had been avoiding friends,” said  , a neighbour.
 
 “The autopsy report will be vital. We are cross-examining whatever Arijit told us,” said an officer. A case of unnatural death was registered in the matter.
 
