New Delhi: Switch-hits, scoops over the wicketkeepers and the wide yorkers have all earned their place in the contemporary cricket coaching manual. Now, one can add another variation, that of fast bowlers, capable of firing deliveries at over 140 kmph all day, using it only as a change. The tantalising battle of unconventional and improvised bowling was on. In the end, Kings XI Punjab bowling carried that extra sting, especially in Mujeeb Zadran’s mystery spin, to sink Delhi Daredevils’ campaign into further despair.

 
 
 After posting their fifth win in six games, Kings XI Punjab jumped to top of the   standings with ten points. And with five defeats in six matches, Daredevils languished at the bottom of the pile.
 
 
 
 
 
 Trent Boult used the slower balls as stock option after captain   elected to bowl first. The cutters and the entire repertoire of slower balls became their main weapon on a night crucial to Daredevils’ fortunes in the ongoing IPL season.
 
 
 
 
 Kings XI Punjab literally sat back, waiting for the balls to come on to the bat. They never arrived and the Punjab batting, hindered by the absence of Chris Gayle who sat out of the match with soreness, laboured to 143/8.
 
  bowlers, taking the cue from their Delhi counterparts, only executed the plan better as a unit and along with their spinners — Zadran and captain R Ashwin — managed to choke the hosts to slumped to a four-run defeat on a sluggish pitch.
 
 Shreyas Iyer, who worked hard to take the game to the final over, faced Zadran in the 20th over with the hosts needing 17 to win. He hit a six and a four but just could not get the third big hit which would have finished the job. Iyer’s 45-ball 57 may well have been the best knock of the night but that could do very little to undo the sorry form of the other batsmen including skipper Gambhir.
 
 Plunkett’s IPL debut was a lesson for all other emerging pacers. The Englishman, who had figures of 3/17 in four overs, set the template for others to follow. He snared all of Punjab’s in-form batsmen in KL Rahul, Mayank Agarwal and Karun Nair, with seam position and revolutions on the ball which would have done his former teammate Graeme Swann proud.
 
 It was clear Daredevils had chalked out a clear plan. Gambhir, for most of his time as Delhi’s state captain, preferred the Kotla pitch to play slow. And that’s exactly what he got on Monday too. All of it came back to bite him.
 
 His young batting lineup could never recover after his 13-ball stay for four runs.
 
 
