NAGPUR: In some hopes for the hundreds of customers of First City project, who failed to get possession of their flats for nearly a decade after making down payments, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Monday, asked the Maharashtra Airport Development Corporation ( ) to submit progress report of the project. 

 The Chaurangi builders (formerly   developers) were directed to respond specifying reasons behind the delay in completion of the project. 
 
 A division bench comprising justices   and Swapna Joshi told both respondents to reply within two weeks.
 
 The directives came while hearing a plea by First City Flat Owners Welfare Association through secretary Vijay Orkay and  . The petitioners through counsels — Firdos Mirza and   — prayed for directives to MADC to complete project and handover possession of flats to them, as early as possible or refund their entire loan amount with 25% interest. They also demanded to stay or quash the e-auction notice issued by Vijaya Bank.
 
 Earlier, the builder informed that it would complete the project by roping in a third partner. The judges then asked the petitioners if they want a flat or refund of their advance. 
 
 MADC, with a view to meet the housing requirements of  , invited offers from leading developers in India and abroad for development of modern township on 31 acres of land at   (Rly) in Hingna. Reatox was selected after bidding process on September 22, 2005, and land was handed over to it on June 6, 2006.
 
 MADC and Reatox entered into a pact on June 22, 2006, where the latter agreed to finance the project and complete construction of the flats within two years. Considering the development activity in Mihan, the petitioners entered into a tripartite agreement with MADC and SBI on July 3, 2008.
 
 The petitioners were expecting that respondents would complete the project, but they received a shock after coming across MADC’s communication of July 16, 2012, to Reatox, for terminating their agreement. They hoped that MADC would float fresh advertisement for completion of remaining work of the township, but nothing moved further.
 
 They pointed out that they had paid 75% of amount towards flat to builder and were regularly paying instalments to respective banks from where they had secured loans.
 
 
