NAGPUR: Though the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE-Main) held on Sunday was easy, students were troubled a bit due to wrong questions in physics section. 

 Rajnikant Bondre, owner of  , said, “There were two wrong questions in physics and one question had two correct answers in Chemistry. Such things were bound to confuse students and disturb their flow. Surprisingly, no questions were asked from ray optics but two questions were included from wave optics.” 
 
 Dilip Vaidya, academics director of ICAD, said, “Unlike last year, physics was very lengthy due to calculations. Only a couple of questions did not require calculations. Many questions had very close options or close range options, which required very precise calculations. Only those with high numerical ability will survive it.”
 
 As per the paper analysis note released bt faculty of Pace IIT & Medical, “Physics paper was easy as compared to the last year’s paper. More weight was given to the syllabus of Std XII. Questions were asked from almost every topic and a student good in physics can score around 100 marks out of 120 in this examination”. 
 
 The note added that for Chemistry, “Physical chemistry was given more weight. As paper was lengthy, time required to solve it was more than one hour”.
 
 Rajshekhar Ratrey, vice-president of online portal toppr.com, said, “The questions were a mix of theory and calculations. As per initial assessment, none of the options of Q6 Set B were correct. The question was based on pulley where minimum mass was required.”
 
 Student  , said, “The paper was not good. Physics was the most difficult as one could sail through it only if one’s concepts were thorough. Chemistry and math were manageable. I could have done better if there was more time.” Another student  , said, “Maths was lengthy and a bit tricky. But physics was easy to solve.” 
 
 Total 10.43 lakh students were registered for   2018 across India and abroad. Exam was held in 112 cities, of which eight were abroad. There were 1,621 exam centres, of which eight were abroad. 
 
 
