NEW DELHI: Chief minister   has sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s intervention to avert a   crisis looming large over the capital. 

 
 
 Haryana had assured Supreme Court that it would maintain normal water supply to Delhi until May 21. After Monday, there’s a possibility of the supply reducing, which could trigger a crisis as the capital is already under a heat spell. 
 
 
 
  
 
 Delhi has been receiving 1,133 cusecs of water from Haryana since 1996, but the neighbouring state recently contested Delhi’s rights over this volume and the matter reached the apex court. Haryana assured SC that it would supply this quantity until May 21. 
 
 If Haryana cuts supply, it would create an “unprecedented shortage of water in Delhi and could also lead to serious law and order situation”, Kejriwal wrote in a letter to Modi, urging him to persuade Haryana to continue supplying the quota until the court settles the issue. 
 
 Any disruption in water supply by Haryana would affect the functioning of Chandrawal water treatment plant, which supplies water to VIP areas, including Rashtrapati Bhavan, Parliament, various embassies and other major establishments like railway stations, hospitals, etc, in NDMC area. 
 
 Haryana has allegedly reduced supply, and many areas in the capital have been receiving water at low pressure in the past few days. The fall in water supply has also affected work at the Wazirabad and Chandrawal water treatment plants. Delhi has been facing a shortage of drinking water supply since December 30 last year, first because of increased pollution levels at Wazirabad, and on account of reduced water release through Diversion Drain-8 of Yamuna since April 2. This has led to the Wazirabad pond not being filled up to the desired level due to which drinking water production has been affected at Wazirabad and Chandrawal WTPs. Sources said supply through Delhi Sub Branch and Carrier Line Channel has reduced by 100 cusecs.
 
 Water demand surges in summer by up to 20% that makes water rationalisation in distribution difficult. As monsoon is expected only in July, Kejriwal has requested Haryana CM Manoharlal Khattar to maintain status quo in water supply. 
 
 Kejriwal also wrote to   Anil Baijal, reminding him that only two days remain to act fast and prevent a crisis. On May 16 and 17, Kejriwal had sent two letters to Baijal, urging him to speak to the Haryana government and the Centre. 
 
 “The Delhi government has already filed an application before Upper Yamuna River Board. However, final adjudication by the board could take some time,” Kejriwal added in his letter to Modi. 
 
