PATNA: Health services in the state were partially affected on Tuesday as doctors boycotted the out patient departments (OPD) in government and private hospitals due to a daylong token strike called by the Indian Medical Association (IMA). They were protesting against the National Medical Commission (NMC) Bill and the licentiate exams. Emergency and critical care units, however, remained open.

 Corridors of the OPDs at the Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH), Nalanda Medical College and Hospital ( ) and Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) remained empty on Tuesday.
 
 Kurji resident Ramparvesh had visited the PMCH in the afternoon to visit the ENT department. Even after acquiring a registration card, he was told by one of the staff to go away as there were no doctors in the OPD.
 
 According to a source, around 2,000 to 3,000 patients visit the NMCH OPD daily. A small group of patients were seen standing outside the paediatrics department of the hospital. A Jehanabad resident, who had gone to the hospital, said many patients were asked to return.
 
 IMA Bihar student wing president Dr Rajeev Ranjan Gupta, a final year MBBS student at the IGIMS, said the OPD remained open for two hours till 11am, but was closed, following the junior doctors’ protest.
 
 Doctors also held protests at the Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital, Sri Krishna Medical College and Hospital, Katihar Medical College and Vardhman Institute of Medical Sciences.
 
 Bihar Health Services Association (BHSA) president Dr Ranjeet Kumar said the protest was called on such short notice that a formal letter from BHSA could not be sent to the districts. “We had given verbal directions to follow the IMA’s call for protest, but doctors in some districts treated patients,” he added.
 
 IMA-Bihar is happy with the success of the protest. “The Bill needs to be debated and its merit and demerits closely discussed. Letting AYUSH doctors prescribe modern medicine with a six-month bridge course is dangerous as they have not been properly trained in modern medicine. Misdiagnosis of medicine is one of the five leading causes of death in the world. Doctors support regulation, but there has to be a proper standard,” said IMA Bihar branch vice-president Dr Harihar Dixit.
 
 The National Medical Commission Bill, which seeks to replace the Medical Council of India with a new body, was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Tuesday.
 
 
