 has voted and here’s the winner of the   30 Most Desirable Men. The results of the poll on our website, along with our internal jury, gave us a new person on the throne — actor-filmmaker  . While he might technically not have had a release in 2017, his   ensured he remained spoken about throughout the year. Rakshit has since supported new talent and also readied himself for his next big outing Avane Srimannarayana, getting in shape to sport an eight pack. He finds it amusing to have the ‘thinking woman’s sex symbol’ moniker, but candidly admits that he likes winning this title. Excerpts from a chat...

 It is yet to sink in. This is because every year I’ve followed this list. A few years ago, I was number 20 on the list. Last year, I managed to break into the top 10. Every year, I would look at Sudeep sir at the top and tell myself that some day I’ll be there. This year, it feels good to know that I am the Most Desirable Man. Actually, it feels great — yeah!
 
 Desirability can be taken in many ways — intelligence, the way one looks, the way one carries oneself, the way you are with people and, most of all, the way people perceive you, get inspired by you and how they respect you. I’d say it eventually boils down to that — respect. 
 
 
 Well, that’s a little hard to say, because it is tough to comment on myself. But, I guess, in many ways, it would be the fact that I give my all and my best in everything that I do. Though I may be nervous in whatever I do, I end up trying to give whatever best I can. I live for that moment and I’m quite hard working. And I do believe I have a little intelligence. 
 
 
 Yes, I first read that two year’s ago in the Bangalore Times itself. I think it is because I have made a film like Ulidavaru Kandante — that’s where it all started. The genre of the film, plus the fact that I directed and acted in it — the combination is what became attractive, I guess. 
 
 
 It means everything to me. I’d thought of this film for a while and it ended up being the first film from our home banner too. This film had all of us putting our heart and soul into it. We were glad that the film was received in such a big way that people talk about the characters and scenes till now. It is also special as I got to meet   ( , his fiancee) on the film set. 
 
 Rashmika is one of the most beautiful souls I have ever met, when she is around she makes everyone smile. She wants everyone around her to smile — be it the light boy, the production people or the director — she looks at everyone the same way and she treats them the same way and respects them. 
 
 
 It is a mix of things actually. When you talk about looks, I think it is the hair and whether or not she has spectacles. If someone is wearing a pair of glasses, I will definitely take a second glance. It is a subconscious thing. Otherwise, it is the way she is — whether she makes me smile and whether she respects every human being around her.
 
