RAJKOT: The Gujarat Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation ( ) — the apex marketing body that markets brand Amul — has cautioned its member milk unions to check the inflow of milk from private players.

 GCMMF — the apex body of all the 17 district dairy unions of Gujarat — presently procures 255 lakh litre milk per day (LLPD). The cautionary note has however come after the milk unions had started receiving an unprecedented amount of surplus milk.
 
 Although winter is traditionally considered to be a lush season in milk procurement, GCMMF officials believe that private players have stopped procuring milk from farmers as price of skimmed milk powder (SMP) has dropped drastically in the global market. The surplus milk is being channelized in the co-operative network where farmers get better prices compared to private players.
 
 “Across Gujarat, we are getting 22% more milk. In fact, in terms of volume we are getting 45 LLPD more milk compared to last year. Hence, we have asked all our member unions to be careful and restrict their procurement from regular registered milk producers only,” GCMMF’s managing director R S Sodhi told TOI.
 
 “In fact, we were getting 50% more milk from Kutch alone while 30% more milk was coming from Rajkot and Morbi,” he said.
 
 Prices of SMP which was hovering around Rs 300 per kg in 2014-15 has fallen to around Rs 110 to Rs 150 per kg, sources said.
 
 After GCMMF’s caution, the Kutch District   Union Ltd (KDCMPUL) popularly known as Sarhad Dairy has asked its village level societies not to register new members. 
 
 Rajkot’s   which procures 4.75 LLPD from its 70,000 milk producers too has stopped procuring 1 LLPD from 40 village societies and decided to keep one day off in one taluka out of 14 talukas per week.
 
 Both Rajkot and Sarhad dairies have reduced procurement prices paid to farmers. While Rajkot dairy has reduced procurement price from Rs 670 per kilo fat to Rs 642 per kilo fat, Sarhad Dairy has reduced the price from Rs 620 per kilo fat to Rs 600 per kilo fat.
 
 “We have stopped milk procurement from 40 cooperative societies because we came to know that these societies were purchasing milk from private traders. Since last one month, we have not registered any new cooperative society,” said Rajkot Dairy’s chairman Govind Ranparia.
 
 “Since a fortnight, we have asked our co-operative societies not to add new members because we don’t have capacity to procure more milk,” said Sarhad Dairy’s chairman Valamji Humbal, adding that although the dairy can procure 10 LLPD it is procuring only 5 LLPD.
 
 GCMMF is also increasing its processing capacity by setting up new milk processing plants at   and Himmatnagar in Sabarkantha each having capacity to process 15 LLPD.
 
 “These plants will be commissioned in July this year after which we will be able to procure more milk,” said Sodhi.
 
 
