If it was tears of joy for   at the Azteca stadium in Mexico, the Argentine legend shed tears of sorrow at the Stadio Olimpico in Rome four years later as West Germany turned the tables on Argentina in the final. The change was not just limited to the final result but after the attractive attacking brand of football in the 1986 World Cup, the 1990 edition of the tournament saw the total lack of it as teams focused on their negative tactics. Just 115 goals from 52 games meant that the tournament in Italy was one of the dourest World Cups in history.

 
 
 
 However, the World Cup in Italy began on a promising note with Cameroon stunning defending champions Argentina in the opening fixture. The African side progressed to the next round as group toppers riding on the goal-scoring prowess of their 38-year-old striker Roger Milla, whose celebratory jig at the corner flag after each goal won him many fans.
 
 
 
 In the round of 16, Milla’s Cameroon ran into Colombia, who had colourful personalities of their own in Rene Higuita, the eccentric goalkeeper, and Carlos Valderrama, the midfield general who stood out for his distinct hairstyle. Milla scored twice in extra-time in that game, the second of which came as goalkeeper Higuita’s penchant to dribble past the striker well out of the Colombian penalty area saw him getting dispossessed and the striker taking advantage of it. Though Cameroon became the first African nation to enter the quarterfinals their luck ended there as two penalties from Gary Lineker gave England a 3-2 win.
 
 Meanwhile, the pre-quarterfinal between West Germany and the Netherlands saw Dutch defender Frank Rijkaard spitting at German striker Rudi Voller more than once and the exchanges that followed between the two saw both being given the marching orders. Germany won that game and beat Czechoslovakia in the quarterfinals. The England-West Germany semifinals went into extra time. Having earned a second booking, which ruled him out of the final had England made it, an emotional Paul Gascoigne withdrew from taking the penalties in the shootout. But England missed out as Chris Waddle missed the spot-kick that Gascoigne was scheduled to take.
 
 In the other half, Italy progressed to the last four-stage as relatively unknown striker Salvatore Schillaci outdid his more illustrious compatriot Roberto Baggio by scoring most of the goals for the hosts. They were up against Argentina, who beat Yugoslavia on penalties in the quarterfinals, thanks to the performance of their reserve goalkeeper Sergio Goycochea.
 
 With Maradona not being his usual old self, it was Goycochea again who stopped Italy’s entry to the final as he stopped both Roberto Donadoni’s and Aldo Serena’s spot-kicks in the penalty shootout. The double save ensured a rematch of the 1986 final as Argentina were pitted against West Germany.
 
 But Goycochea’s run of luck in penalty saves ran out in the final. West Germany were awarded a penalty in the 85th minute for Roberto Sensini’s foul on Voller. Andreas Brehme slid the ball past a diving Goycochea to guide the Germans to their third title and helping Franz Beckenbauer become only the second man to win the World Cup first as a player and then as a coach.
 
