Chennai: Urve Palo, minister for entrepreneurship and IT, Republic of Estonia is on her first visit to India as a cabinet minister. A week long trip covering Delhi, Chennai and Mumbai, she is here to offer the best of Estonia to the Indian government and startups. On the sidelines of a CII event, Palo talks to TOI on her expectations from India, Estonia’s growing startup ecosystem and how Indian entrepreneurs can benefit from its various digital initiatives. Excerpts: What does Estonia have to offer? You met the Tamil Nadu CM and some ministers today. What is the outcome? India is an important and interesting country for Estonia. We have been meeting public officials as well as entrepreneurs on how we can share knowledge and drive co-operation between the two countries. Estonia is a small country in Europe with a population of 1.3 million. That seems small in comparison to India’s 1.3 billion but we have a lot advantages to offer. We are part of global alliances like NATO, OECD and Schengen area. We have been ahead of the game with our e-governance solutions. Since 2000, all government services are offered online. All documents are electronically available and our calculation shows that we able to save 2% of our GDP due to this digitalisation. With the TN public officials, we will enter into a Memorandum of Understanding to work on e- government solutions for the state of TN. Estonia is home to several globally renowned startups like Skype. What is your secret sauce? Very early, the Estonian government decided to focus on e-solutions. They chose to engage with the private sector and added fuel to the system. Our banks were also leading transformation to the extent that we skipped the entire ‘cheque’ generation and moved to internet banking very early. 80% of our population uses the internet everyday. Of course, our peak success story came with Skype and with its acquisition, many more Estonians were financially rewarded, becoming an engine for further growth. IT cuts across all sectors today and in Estonia, you will find startups and companies working on all solutions ranging from cyber security to smart cities, drones and 5G. Our success is the ideal example of the phrase ‘size doesn’t matter’. What are your expectations from India? We want to develop a long term relationship with India to foster an attitude of co-operation for mutual benefit. We also invite Indian IT professionals to come to Estonia. As per reports, Estonia needs at least 7,000 IT specialists as an immediate requirement. It is a win-win situation for both countries as we will get skilled labour and Indians will get an opportunity to work in a country that is at the forefront of IT innovation. We have also launched ‘study in Estonia’ as a mission to encourage youngsters to get quality education in Estonia and possibly work in the country as well. For startups, the e-residency program gives them a chance to be an e-resident, i.e they can avail Estonia’s e-services, irrespective of where they are located. We have over 30,000 e-residents from 152 different countries of which 1200 are from India. This is an ideal platform for startups to leverage and take their businesses global.