NAGPUR: Students, researchers, industrialists and academicians will get a common platform to discuss the latest trends in   and also share research results at a two-day international conference on ‘Innovative Realms in Civil Engineering’ organized by   of Engineering and Institute for Engineering Research and Publication (IFERP) on Wednesday and Thursday at KDK College, Nandanvan. 

 Eminent faculty from across the world will be the speakers at the conference that will have participation from around 35 colleges from across the country.
 
 The Times of India is the print partner for the conference to be held in association with   (I), Nagpur chapter, and Indian Concrete Institute (ICI), Nagpur chapter. 
 
 District collector   will be the chief guest for the inauguration ceremony. Rajendra Mulak will preside the programme while Vivek Naik, president, ICI, KV Subramanium, head of Civil engineering department, IIT-Hyderabad and Indubhushan Patnaikuni, RMIT University, Australia, will be the guest of honours.
 
 Archana Sarkar, National Institute of Hydrology, Roorkee, Indubhushan Patnaikuni, Pradeep Ramancharla, IIT-Hyderabad, CW Lim, City University of Hong Kong, Hironori Kato, The University of Tokyo, DM Devikar, IIT-Bombay, and MA Megat Johari, University of Science, Malaysia, will address the gathering on various themes in civil engineering and its effects on the life of a common man.
 
 The two-day conference will be divided into 12 sessions wherein eight keynote speeches on latest technological advancements and innovations in the civil engineering sector will be delivered. 
 
 More than 100 papers will be presented on topics related to geotechnique, earthquakes, transportation, construction material and management, sustainability and green structures, GIS, water, disaster mitigation and many more.
 
 Valson Varghese, convener of the conference, said, “Our aim is to provide experts a platform to discuss technological advances in the field of civil engineering across the globe. This will benefit educational institutes and the research sector that will be updated about the latest trends. The event is open to all and students from different colleges from in and around the city can attend it.”
 
 “At the concluding function, two Best Paper awards will be presented under content and presentation categories. The proceedings of the conference will be submitted to the libraries of  , Singapore, and Pohang University of Science and Technology, South Korea,” said Varghese. 
 
 He added that various agencies, including Apple Chemi, ICI, MahaMetro and others would be presenting their research work at the conference.
 
 
