After facing criticism from   (All India Council for Technical Education) for not submitting its perspective plan for new colleges, the   government recently wrote to the council requesting no permission be granted to any new   or diploma   colleges.

 Issued by deputy secretary SJ Tidke, the letter cited growing vacancies in both types of colleges in last three years or so. Addressed to chairman Anil Sahasrabuddhe, the government letter said that even the Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Technological University (BATU) set up by the government in Lonere, Raigad, for technical education had recommended there was no need for new engineering institutes in the state for the academic year 2018-19.
 
 “Considering the vacancies in diploma/degree programmes and recommendations of BATU and Maharashtra State Board of Technical Education (MSBTE), Mumbai, you are kindly requested not to grant   for starting any new colleges for both courses in Maharashtra,” the letter stated.
 
 Additional chief secretary Sitaram Kunte said there was much disparity in the demand and supply which had led to a big rise in vacancies in both courses. He blamed the trend of colleges mushrooming without taking this factor into consideration on the apex body.
 
 “As per earlier rules, universities used to have their perspective plans for colleges. However, AICTE took to granting colleges directly without permission from state or university. They made it mandatory for states and universities to grant affiliation to such institutes. Their stand was vindicated by the court, which led to a jump in numbers,” Kunte said.
 
 He said BATU was established as a single engineering university for all degree colleges in state and it was made mandatory for new institutes to seek its affiliation. “Over 70 colleges are affiliated to it so far. Eventually it would be a common university for all engineering colleges. Its perspective plan submitted to the government said no more colleges in both disciplines were needed for forthcoming academic year in view of vacancies. Its recommendations are made after conducting proper scientific study taking into consideration the demand and supply,” Kunte said.
 
 Referring to Directorate of Technical Education letter, Tidke stated that in the last three academic years, the vacancies in degree courses were 42%, 44.78% and 40.87%. Those in   courses too have consistently increased from 48.34% to 55.94% to 56.64% in the same period.
 
 
