Celebs and the aam aadmi alike have been taking the #PadManChallenge, which involves uploading a picture of them holding a sanitary napkin online. The intention of the challenge is to break the taboo around  , but green activists are seeing red. Their argument: disposable sanitary pads are not just bad for the environment (they take 500-600 years to decompose), but are also harmful for   as they release dioxins that increase the chances of reproductive disorders. These dioxins, which are extremely toxic, reach the soil, water and air when pads are disposed, as they are usually burnt or dumped in landfills.

 To educate people on green and safe alternatives, men and women alike have been posting pictures holding menstrual cups or cloth pads (or both) over the last couple of days, with the hashtags #PadmanChallenge and #CupAndCloth. And it has gone viral.
 
 
 
 “Celebrities have been saying that using cloth during periods can lead to cancer, but that is not true. We all wear clothes, but do we all suffer from skin cancer? The fact is that 60% women in India use disposable sanitary napkins, and this is harmful for many reasons. Women are being made to feel that it is a crime to use low-cost   cloth pads. Mind you, these pads are not just for low-income women. I have two daughters, aged 11 and 13, who prefer using cloth pads over disposable sanitary napkins,” says  , of Green the Red, which is a group of women who visit offices, NGOs and education institutes to spread the word on sustainable methods of menstruation.
 
 
 
 The two biggest concerns with cloth pads are that they leak and don’t stay in place. But modern-day cloth pads (that are available online) have solved these issues — they are as absorbent as disposable sanitary pads and have a clip to keep it in place. “And it’s not a big deal to wash them either. Instead of putting a pad into the dustbin, my daughters put their cloth pads in a tub of water. The next day, I drain the water, run the pads under fresh water and put them in the washing machine. They get dried in the sun, like other clothes, and can be used again for years,” says Malini.
 
 
 
 Padman, says Malini, has brought attention and focus to menstruation, but it’s time to talk about the right way to manage it. Having approached the Government of   in the past (but failed to get them to implement eco alternatives), Malini says that what the government should get Anganwadi workers to teach women how to make no-cost cloth pads that they can stitch themselves. “Currently, Anganwadi workers ask women to use disposable pads. The same is done at government schools. If only they encouraged women to use green alternatives, we could drastically reduce the sanitary waste in landfills; pads are among the highest contributors to waste,” says Malini.
 
