NAGPUR: After coming under fire due to the apathy of additional/assistant government pleaders (AGPs) in taking instructions from state departments, the   government has decided to fix the number of AGPs based on various parameters, and put all new appointments on hold till then.

 Government pleader (GP)   made a statement in this regard on Monday through an affidavit of law and judiciary department’s principal secretary  . 
 
 The government informed that it was ready to determine the criteria for fixing number of AGPs within a month with assistance of senior counsel Sunil Manohar, who was appointed as amicus curiae in the case.
 
 He also assured that with the assistance of amicus, mechanism and parameters for appraisal would be evolved within two weeks. On the basis of new criteria the current strength would be reviewed in the same period. Till then, the government clarified that no fresh appointment, reappointment or extension of the tenure of AGPs would be made. 
 
 While accepting the GP’s undertaking, a single judge bench of justice Rohit Deo then adjourned hearing till April 26 to consider mechanism for appraisal and other issues as pointed out by the amicus to the HC. It included lack of basic infrastructure facilities, like shortage or absence of functional photocopy machines, scanners and fax machines at GP’s office, which adversely affect the efficiency of government lawyers.
 
 “The state has undertaken to evolve criteria with amicus’ assistance, who seeks a direction to government to evolve a meaningful mechanism for periodically assessing AGPs’ performance at respective benches on various parameters. 
 
 “The HC is satisfied that the government shares concern of every stakeholder in justice dispensation system, and hopes that, with the able and valuable assistance of amicus, it would endeavour to set right systemic flaws and shortcomings in functioning of GP’s office,” the judge said. 
 
 Jamadar’s affidavit was submitted in response to court’s warning on March 26, where it warned chief secretary and law and judiciary department’s principal secretary to remain personally present, if they failed to reply on performance appraisal of government lawyers.
 
 While hearing Balaji Kinhale’s criminal appeal, justice Deo had directed   to justify strength of 57 AGPs at his office. He tersely observed that taxpayers are entitled to know whether such big numbers were really needed as their salaries are paid through taxes. 
 
 “If the government does not comply with order in letter and spirit, and its response is found wanting factually or legally, HC shall be compelled, albeit with great reluctance, to request the presence of chief and principal secretaries to assist it.”
 
 The judge further said the observations, which the HC was impelled to make, were more in anguish and frustration than in anger. 
 
 “The performance or lack thereof of AGPs and APPs is particularly painful since their individual legal acumen is beyond any doubt. The problem area is not potential or capability or acumen, it’s the absence of commitment and lack of will to burn the midnight oil.”
 
 PARAMETERS TO RATE AGPs
 
 * Punctuality of AGPs in various courts
 
 * Commitment towards matters allotted to them
 
 * Preparedness with facts & law involved in matters
 
 * General discipline, court manners/etiquettes, and like
 
 
