Shimla: New Himachal DGP Sita Ram Mardi is likely to have his hands full improving law and order and fighting mining, land, forest and drug mafia in Himachal Pradesh. The BJP raised these issues during its campaign and fulfilling the promises made would be a litmus test for the chief minister Jai Ram Thakur-led government. 

 Over the past months, the state police has been questioned over incidents like the Kotkhai gangrape and murder case, custodial death case and forest guard Hoshiyar Singh murder case. The CBI also arrested nine police officials in the custodial death case.
 
 After taking charge on Tuesday, Mardi announced that improving the image of the police in people’s eyes is his top priority. He assured that shortcomings in the department would be removed. 
 
 Interacting with mediapersons, the DGP said the department would be made people friendly and more professional. He conceded to the fact that law and order was a major issue during the election and it eventually led to change of guard. Now, he said, the priority would be to improve law and order.
 
 The DGP said steps would be taken to rein in the mining mafia, forest mafia and drug mafia, besides improving the quality of investigation and supervision.
 
 He said chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has already announced that Gudiya helpline would be launched for the safety of women and crimes against women would be monitored in all three police ranges. Action taken report would be sought in 48 hours, he said. “We will take all these steps as announced by the chief minister and will implement them effectively,” he said. 
 
 During its term in the opposition, the BJP slammed the Congress government for its failure to curb the mining and forest mafia in five years. It also questioned the police probe in the gangrape and murder of a minor from Kotkhai.
 
 Under the “Hisab Mange Himachal” campaign, BJP claimed that in last four years, more than 30,000 cases of illegal mining were detected in the state, which led to losses worth Rs 2,400 crore. He said the BJP had alleged that the mining mafia is active in the border areas of the state.
 
 BJP also claimed that cases of illegal cutting of trees are pending in the area of then forest minister, which proves that the forest mafia was protected by the administration and officials. BJP also alleged that the drug mafia was active in the state.
 
 
