NEW DELHI:   has floated a tender to rope in a private agency to encourage scientific disposal of non-biodegradable wastes as per the   and E-Waste Managemen & Handling Rules,  . Senior officials from   claimed that NGOs and ragpickers will be roped in for segregating plastic from municipal solid waste, and door-to-door collection will be encouraged for collection of e-waste.

 At present about 150 MT of plastic waste is generated daily which is mixed with the municipal solid waste as there is no segregation is done across the four zones of SDMC. There is no data available about generation of e-waste.
 
 Senior officials said the south civic body is working on a comprehensive plan for management of plastic and e-waste through reducing, reusing and recycling process. “The project will work on the 3R model – reduce, reuse and recycle. A consultant has been appointed for developing the detailed plan of the project for handling plastic and e-waste,” said a senior official.
 
 
  
  
 
 On a zonal level, units will be developed for recycling and scientific disposal of plastic and e-waste. “The private agency will have to collaborate with the private concessionaire engaged for collection and disposal of municipal solid waste and rag pickers to ensure the non-biodegradable waste doesn’t reach the landfills,” said a senior official.
 
 The non-biodegradable waste, which gets dumped at the Okhla landfill site is then processed at the waste-to-energy plant. This is hazardous to the environment. “Non-biodegradable waste releases toxic chemicals when mixed with the municipal solid waste. This will also increase the efficiency of waste-to-energy plant,” added the senior official.
 
 He further added that SDMC has procured land for developing scientific landfill site and the work will be awarded to private contractor soon. “Okhla landfill site was declared exhausted however, due to unavailability of land the south civic body had to dump waste at Okhla. Once, the new landfill site is developed, the Okhla site will be reclaimed,” added the senior official.
 
 SDMC had deployed fixed compactors in its central, west and south zone, and work has been initiated to make Najafgarh zone dhalao-free. Also, the south civic body has developed 21 centres to treat green waste, making the landfill site free from this kind of waste.
 
 Last year, New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) had developed 5 centres for processing e-waste, and the NDMC chairman Naresh Kumar has proposed in their budget for 2018-19 to develop 10 more centres.
 
 
