GOLD COAST: Teenage shooting sensation   continued to wow Indian sports fans with her stunning prowess when she set two new Games record in women's 10m air pistol on Sunday. And in doing so, helped open India's medal haul at the ranges.

 
 
 
 
 Firing away to glory from the start at Brisbane's Belmont Shooting Centre, Manu first snatched the qualification record, 386 set by Dina Aspandiyarova of Australia back in 2006, with a tally of 388 and then set the final record en route to winning the gold by an unbelievable margin of 6.9 points.
 
 Later in the day, Ravi Kumar added a bronze medal winning a shoot-off against Australian Alex Hoburg in the 10m air rifle. Both the shooters were tied on 204.6 points after 20 shots in the final but Ravi prevailed in shootoff to climb the podium.
 
  
  
 
 Earlier, Manu, the 16-year-old wonder kid from Jhajjar in Haryana, had 11 shots above 10.0 in the 24-shot final; she once hit the bull's eye at 10.9 and it all added up to another Games record at 240.9.
 
 
 
 
 Such was her performance that even experienced compatriot  , a former World No. 1, was forced to play second fiddle. In the end, Heena grabbed the silver winning the battle against Australia's Elena Galiabovitich. Sidhu tallied 234 in the final while the local girl settled for bronze.
 
 "I was only focused on my technique. But I agree there was bit of pressure due to the expectations but more than that I had live to up to my own expectations," Manu told TOI.
 
 The champion, who recently became the youngest Indian to win a World Cup gold, said she kept herself aloof from all the distractions in the run-up to the day's action. "I wasn't too much bothered about what was happening around. I kept focus on my training and even when I was in my room, I just rested. I was religiously following my daily schedule and I enjoyed it a lot here," she said.
 
 Asked about her duel with Heena, Manu said: "I never kept anything specific in my mind - that I have to duel with this shooter or that. Even that I'm competing in a big event like the   was shut out of my head. All I was thinking was that I will shoot in the same way as I do in practice."
 
 
 
 
 Manu's coach  , a four-time Asian Games gold medallist himself, felt the precious national talent needs to be protected with zeal. "I think this is a very good victory and the way she has won with the Games record and the final almost six points ahead of everyone - that's a good sign. The way she is competing and winning shows that this person is outstanding. The only thing we have to do is to protect her outside distractions and keep her stay focused. If we can do all these things then, yes we have an Olympic medal hope," Rana said.
 
  
  
 
