BENGALURU: About an hour-and-a-half into the second day of the  , the money left with the franchises started to decrease with capped pacers commanding a good price. Kings XI Punjab and   - the teams with the biggest purse - had one pacer on their ‘must-buy’ list and the latter had the last laugh.

 
 ALSO READ: 
 
 
 It turned out to be a blockbuster Sunday for left-arm pacer   as he went for a mind boggling ₹ 11.5 crore, making him the second most expensive player of this season behind IPL teammate Ben Stokes (₹12.5 crore).
 
 ALSO READ: 
 
 Starting off at a base price of Rs 1.5 crore, it was common knowledge that the 26-year-old will be among the hot picks given his T20 credentials which includes 24 wickets last season, Chennai Super Kings were the first to bid for him and Kings XI Punjab jumped in immediately. Rajasthan Royals, who were mute spectators until the bid crossed the Rs 11-crore mark, upped the ante and made the winning bid for the Saurashtra bowler, who last season went to Rising Pune Supergiants for his base price of Rs 30 lakh.
 
 As the auction drew to a close, 169 of the 581 players found a team with a total of Rs 431.7 crore spent on them. This included 56 overseas players from across nine countries.
 
 Earlier, Kings XI Punjab fought it out with Chennai for Australian pacer Andrew Tye before bagging him for Rs 7.2 crore. After an intense paddle war between Mumbai Indians, Royal Challengers Bangalore and Rajasthan Royals, Karnataka spinner and a handy bat K Gowtham went to Royals for an impressive Rs 6.2 crore.
 
  
  
 
 
 Over the weekend, four players from Afghanistan generated a lot of buzz. After Rashid Khan and Mohammad Nabi returned to Sunrisers Hyderabad, 16-year-old Mujeeb Zadran and Zahir Khan went to Punjab and Rajasthan Royals respectively.
 
 Mujeeb, who hails from Khost, a town 250km from Kabul, shot into the limelight last year when he picked up four wickets on debut against Ireland. The offspinner, often referred to as a mystery spinner, started with a base price of Rs 50 lakh and Punjab and Delhi Daredevils immediately engaged in intense bidding. Delhi dropped out at Rs 3.80 crore and Punjab sealed the deal at Rs 4 crore. Mujeeb’s compatriot Zahir, went for Rs 60 lakh from a base price of Rs 20 lakh.
 
 
 
 With an eye on the future, the franchisees picked a total of seven India U-19 players, of whom four were bought on the second day. Speed gun Shivam Mavi went for Rs 3 crore to Kolkata Knight Riders while big hitters Abhishek Sharma and Manjot Kalra were both snapped up by Delhi Daredevils for Rs 55 lakh and Rs 20 lakh respectively. Left-arm spinner Anukul Roy headed to the Mumbai Indians camp for Rs 20 lakh.
 
 
 
 Nepal’s spin bowler Sandeep Lamichhane became the first player from Nepal to bag an IPL contract when Delhi got him on board for ₹20 lakh. The 17-year-old is highly rated by former Australian skipper Michael Clarke, who mentored him during a league in Hong Kong.
 
  
  
 
 
 West Indies big-hitter  , a marquee player who went unsold on the opening day and in the second session of the second day, emerged lucky the third time when Punjab successfully bid for him at his Rs 2-crore base price. Likewise, Murali Vijay too was brought in the first round of the accelerated process by Chennai Super Kings at his base price Rs 2 crore). Another current international Parthiv Patel (₹ 1.70 crore) headed to Royal Challengers Bangalore as did Mitchell Johnson (Rs 2 crore, KKR) and Tim Southee (Rs 1 crore, RCB). Among the big names who failed to attract any bidders were Dale Steyn, Eoin Morgan, Martin Guptill, Joe Root, Nathan Lyon and Tymal Mills, who was the second most expensive player last season at Rs 12 crore.
 
  
  
 
