Theni: Collective action from different departments ensured that there will be minimum flow in the Suruli falls, which was stopped after repair works at Manalar dam inside Megamalai Wildlife Sanctuary, ensuring that the falls will remain vibrant. Theni district, endowed with more than the state’s average in forest cover, has Suruli falls as its prime tourist spot, which is fed by the Suruli. This river originates from the Manalar dam in the Megamalai Wildlife Sanctuary. It runs for about 7km from the dam through rich riverine forests before making its fall at Suruli, and then flows for about 7 more kilometres before joining Mullaiperiyar near Surulipatti, aiding agriculture along its banks. Manalar dam commissioned in the year 1978, had few leakages which had been sustaining the flow of the river and the life around it all these years and these leaks were sealed off 6 months back by Tangedco department. And so, the river is fast drying up off its natural sources and feared to go completely dry by February and summer months till first rains start in South West monsoon. Realizing the importance of environmental flow, Theni district administration, forest department and wildlife NGOs took it up with Tangedco. After prolonged efforts, Tangedco’s director (generation), T Velmurugan issued an order dated February 12, observing that minimum environmental flow from Manalar dam into Suruli river downstream will be ensured by Tangedco in future. “It was a collective effect from all stakeholders and Tangedco agreed to ensure the same”, said Theni collector, N Venkatachalam. Honourary wildlife warden, Dr C P Rajkumar from Vaigai Association for Nature Resources and Mountain Ranges NGO said that National Green Tribunal has observed that there should be minimum environmental flow from all dams. “There are hundreds of people including reformed poachers taking care of eco-tourism project at Suruli, and the minimum flow in river will keep the project alive and help people depending on the Suruli falls”, he added.