NAGPUR: City’s little   queens Mrudul Dehankar and   were off to a flying start in the   which began at Thailand on Monday.

 
 Both the city masters are participating in the Under -14 girls’ group of the nine-round tourney being organized by the Thailand Chess Association. While both Mrudul and Divya posted comfortable victories in the two rounds played for the day, another city player Sankalp Gupta, qualified to represent India in the U-16 open category, had mixed luck. After winning the opening round, the second seeded Sankalp had to settle for a draw in the second round.
 
 In the U-14 girls’ section, two-time world U-12 champion Divya —who started as a second seed with the black pieces—made the light work of San Diego Jerlyn Mae from Philippines in the opening round. She outclassed compatriot Bristy Mukherjee in the evening session. Divya, who holds a record of world’s youngest Women Fide Master, will now play with the black bits in the third round against Nityata Jain of India on Tuesday.
 
 Much like Divya, Mrudul’s start in the standard format was easy. A day after the Women Candidate Master (WCM) pocketed her first gold medal in the rapid format of Asian championship, the 14-year-old fifth seed played confidently and posted easy victories to garner two full points.
 
 Making most of her opening advantage with the white pieces, Mrudul prevailed over WCM Thanh Uyen Dung of Vietnam in the opening round before outclassing Women Fide Master (WFM) and compatriot   in the second round. She will now face 10th seeded WCM Khegay Yuliya of Uzbekistan in the third round.
 
 In the U-14 girls’ category 40 selected masters from across Asia are vying for the honours.
 
 For Sankalp, however, the opening day of the nine-day meet brought fluctuating fortunes. After winning his first round with the black pieces against Au Alexander of Australia, Sankalp made a silly error in his opening move but managed to come back and split the points with FM Al Hosani Omran of UAE in the second round.
 
 In the 34-player U-16 open category, Sankalp will now take on Malaysian Candidate Master   in the third round on Tuesday.
 
