CHENNAI: Homemaker Cheryl* and her family were spending a lazy Sunday afternoon watching TV when her 10-year-old suddenly asked, “What’s  , mummy?”. Shocked, Cheryl and her husband were at a complete loss for words. “I really didn’t know what to answer, so I asked her where she had heard the word, and when she spoke about Asifa, I just told her that the little girl had been hurt by someone who took her away,” says Cheryl.

  
 
 In the past few weeks, news of the gangrape and murder of the eight-year-old in Kashmir has been flooding the media. The wide-eyed, innocent face of the little girl is flashed frequently on news channels, and protests against the murder have been launched on social media, with even children being part of the protests.
 
 In the recent past, there have been several other instances of children being raped and murdered – whether it’s the 12-year-old in   or nine-year-old in Surat. And   across the country are faced with the daunting task of explaining the mindless violence to their children.
 
 In this wired world, it’s not possible to shield children from the violence that is all around them. But how do you explain rape to a child who doesn’t fully understand sex? Experts believe that the key is to not shy away from questions, and impart age-appropriate information, even use it as a ‘teachable moment’.
 
 “What you say depends on the age of the child, whether they are old and mature enough to understand relationships and violence,” says psychiatrist Dr Thara Srinivasan. “You needn’t get into any graphic details. If the child is very young, just say that the victim was hurt by some people. Or else it can be very traumatic, and they can grow up with a warped idea of sex and men.” All the more so, since girls are supposed to develop a sense of empathy earlier than boys.
 
 Parents should not shy away from questions, but can rope in the help of a peer or a professional to explain violence without creating fear, feels psychologist Dr Mini Rao. “You have to find out what they know about the issue and then talk to them about it, starting with the good touch and bad touch,” she says.
 
 In fact, it can even be used as a ‘teachable moment’, says Vidya Reddy, founder, Tulir – Centre for the Prevention and Healing of Child Sexual  . “Since children are bound to get to know about these instances, it is best to use it as an opportunity to educate them,” she says. “If an eight-year-old asks what happened to Asifa, it is enough to say that she was taken away by people who did terrible things to her and killed her,” says Reddy. “Unfortunately, our kids growing up with an idea of sexuality through the prism of violence or disease. But as parents, you are not living up to your responsibility if you don’t address the issue when your child asks you questions.”
 
 However, to do that, parents themselves should be comfortable to talk to their children about it. “If they are not, children can sense their discomfort and will stop asking them questions but seek answers elsewhere – from a third person or the internet,” says sexologist Dr Narayana Reddy, adding that whatever advice we give children should not be limited to child sexual abuse or rape. “It has to be a part of sexual health education otherwise children will develop negative feelings about human sexuality and be scared to mingle with men,” he says, that education should always be positive and include information on how to stay safe.
 
 
