KOCHI: The corporation council which met on Wednesday decided to conduct a departmental probe by a team led by corporation secretary into the reasons behind the Rs 1 crore loss suffered by the local body in the hiring of trucks to transport  . 

 The civic body lost money after they agreed on a contract to pay for waste transport by weight of the truck load.
 
  Earlier the corporation was making payments to the contractor on the basis of number of trucks supplied.
 
 The opposition councillors created noisy scenes in the council hall demanding a vigilance probe in to the issue as the recommendation on paying by weight was made by the steering committee headed by mayor.
 
  
 According to mayor  , further probes can be ordered, if needed, after getting the report by the departmental committee. But opposition councillors pointed out that it was the steering committee, in which the corporation secretary is also a member, that recommended switching over to weight-based payment system. 
 
 "The steering committee overruled the recommendations given by health standing committee against it. In the past seven months,   had to spend an additional amount of Rs one crore for hiring trucks for waste transportation. Moreover, the new contractor failed to provide adequate trucks and garbage remains piled up in different parts of the city. This has led to a crisis and it is a clear case of corruption and it should be probed by vigilance," said V P Chandran, secretary, LDF parliamentary party, Kochi corporation. 
 
 "How can the secretary conduct a judicious probe into the reasons of loss caused by a recommendation given by steering committee of which she is a part?" asked  , CPM councillor.
 
 Mayor Soumini Jain said the probe team has officials from other departments of the corporation. "Both the standing committee and steering committee can give only suggestions and it was the corporation council which took the decision to switch over to the new method. Nobody is afraid of any kind of probe. Further probe can be conducted if the preliminary inquiry conducted by secretary suggests the need for it," Soumini said. 
 
 "We can reverse the system and go back to the method of paying by number trucks if the council decides so. The health standing committee should submit a report on the what to do next," she said.
 
 Though the corporation issued a showcause notice to the contractor, he said payment based on the actual weight of garbage transported had been causing loss to him. "Despite our continued demand for using corporation's own trucks, the local body authorities failed to do that," said C K Peter, opposition councillor.
 
 
