GURUGRAM: A group of city-based   on Friday wrote to chief minister  , demanding immediate deployment of a   to tackle non-forest activities going on in  .

 “Your helicopter inspection of Aravalis in June 2015 and the subsequent steps to protect Mangar Bani raised our hopes that you would change the unwritten policy of previous governments, and work to conserve the Aravalis. (However), we are still waiting,” stated a letter sent by Vivek Kamboj of Haryali, an environmental NGO, to Khattar.
 
 According to environmentalists, more than half of Aravali protection watchers have been laid off, several tents have been removed and checkpoints have been abandoned. “There was a system of local forest watchers that was put in place in Aravali areas of Gurgaon and Faridabad in last couple of years. During our visits, we have seen tents and watchers at key entry/exit /chokepoints in Aravalis in the past. For example, kuccha path into Aravalis next to Bandhwari waste dumping site had a tent and watchers for 24 hours. But… this system of tent checkpoints and local watchers has been dismantled to a large extent. It is disastrous for Aravalis. This is why we are witnessing frequent tree-felling and encroachment attempts in Aravalis,” said Kamboj.
 
 Shivani Sharma, honorary animal welfare officer,  , said, forest department had promised to make abandoned checkpoints functional in January. “However, we don’t see any development till now. It seems the government is not serious in taking any step to protect Aravalis,” she said.
 
 A group of environmentalists will meet director general of forests, ministry of environment, forests and climate change, at Centre. “We’ve been trying to meet Khattar for past two weeks. But, we’ve not got appointment yet. It was easier to meet union environment minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan and director general (DG) of forests. Now, we’ve got an appointment to meet DG forests again on Monday to take issue further,” said Vaishali Rana Chandra, an environmentalist.
 
 Several city-based environmentalists have been up in arms since animal traps were found in Aravalis. They also have been alleging that despite curbs, tree felling has been going on unabated in the protected region.
 
 
