KOCHI: Adventure seekers in the city will find far more interesting activities in their neighbourhood once the adventure tourism circuit, proposed by the tourism department, materializes. 

 The tourism department which wants to develop lesser known destinations in the state by connecting them to major ones is trying to tap the adventure tourism potential of spots like Bhoothathankettu and Thattekkad which can be accessed by tourists travelling to Munnar.
 
 A meeting attended by major tourism operators in the district and tourism department officials deliberated the feasibility and prospects of the project.
 
 "The plan is to promote inland destinations like Bhoothathankettu and Thattekkad as an alternative or at least a one-day stopover destination enroute Munnar, by developing adventure tourism activities like bamboo rafting and kayaking. Such activities are already available in these spots albeit in a low-profile manner," said K P Nandakumar, joint director, tourism.
 
 Boating from Neryamangalam to these locations and activities like bird watching were among the activities discussed.
 
 "However, several hurdles have to be overcome before the project can be materialized as multiple permissions from the forest and irrigation department will have to be taken for developing the circuit. During a preliminary meeting with the forest department officials, concerns regarding intrusion of wild elephants and leopards reported near domestic settlements were discussed. As the activities are to be held in the buffer zone of the forest, detailed planning is required to design them," Nandakumar said.
 
 To ensure sustainable, year-round tourism, prospects of accommodation and restaurant services around these destinations also need to be developed, officials said.
 
 "Tour operators have said that to ensure year-round influx of tourists to the area facilities like lodging need to be provided. There is also a need to maintain a minimum water level at the dam for boating and kayaking. Just like how Kumarakom was developed from scratch to one of the most desired tourism destinations in the state, the project envisions development of these locations in a manner that would give them a pride of place in the state's tourism map," he added.
 
 
