If you feel bad seeing the Indian flag tossed away after every Republic or Independence Day celebrations, try the   flag which   has developed. This young bio-technologist decided to make use of her degree and knowledge to make a change in the environment for the better. 

 What started as a hobby, soon turned into a profession says Mansi, “Due to my mother who has a green thumb even when we were kids we were always inclined towards growing plants and had a mini garden in the balcony. The love for greenery grew and with the help of my dad who has a printing press I decided to incorporate seeds in plain paper which can then grow into plants.”
 
 Along with paper for gift wrapping, writing, note pads, invites, etc.,   also made   during the Ganapati festival and   during  , all infused with paper seeds. And that is how the flags infused with paper seeds too was an idea that she thought of. “We were already on a spree to make sure our festivals are green with green modaks and rangolis when I came up with the idea last year in January just before Republic Day. I started thinking about making such a product when I saw a lot of paper flags being made and sold at signals. What upset me though is that we see these same flags being dumped into the trash later that day or the next day. I realised that we as Indians claim to be patriotic in the way of listening to patriotic songs, hoisting our flag, etc., but we don’t give a second thought to what happens to those flags post Republic or Independence Day. I realised I can initiate and make some change, so why not. We produced approximately 1000 seed paper flags about a week before Republic Day with the message ‘Don’t throw, grow me’ printed on the back. The idea is to encourage people to grow these flags into plants as opposed to just throwing them out. We made sure it’s fine to plant a flag and followed the Indian Flag code.”
 
  
 The flags are made of handmade paper infused with seeds and the screen print uses vegetable inks. Talking about the seeds that go into the flag, Mansi says, “We infuse the paper with a variety of seeds ranging from chilli and marigold to basil, tomato and tulsi. With the flags, in particular, we don’t use different seeds for different colours but with other products this can be customised based on the requirement.”
 
 Mansi remembers how initially when they distributed the flags in a housing society the enthusiasm of the children was infectious, “They all made sure their parents, grandparents and friends all planted their flags and that no one threw them out. I have a very special memory of interacting with some children who had no idea what to do with the regular flags once they were done wearing them. On finding out that they could plant our flags they jumped up with excitement and started to enquire how they should plant it, what plant would emerge etc. Seeing their happy, excited reactions was thrilling and I knew that I’m on the right path.”
 
 The interest is ever growing and as compared to last year when Mansi started making paper seed flags to this year the response has been encouraging. Says Mansi, “We, are now happy that this Republic Day there are many more flags out there which will grow into little plants and in their little way help preserve nature. And we all must know and realise the fact that there is no Planet B.”
 
