LUDHIANA: Raising hopes of businessmen during his maiden visit to Ludhiana on Thursday, industries and commerce minister Sunder Sham Arora signed as many as 21 memorandums of understanding ( ) worth Rs 1,336.87 crore on behalf of Punjab government with the industrial houses of the city for further investment in the state and assured them that all their problems would be resolved within the next three months.

 Arora, who presided over a meeting with the city soon after arriving at the event, said instead of a welcome ceremony and presenting bouquets to him, the industrialists be allowed to speak and raise their issues and concerns with him.
 
 The minister also informed the businessmen that as he would be in the city till evening, anyone could approach him to convey his problems.
 
 Arora asked businessmen to give him three months’ time to sort out all their issues.
 
 On the issue of promise of   government to provide electricity at Rs 5 per unit to the industry, Arora said due to technical glitch, the industrialists who are consuming less power as compared to their sanctioned load are being charged higher tariff, but state government stands by its promise and the issue will be resolved at the earliest.
 
 The industries minister also claimed that government was working aggressively towards upgradation of the industry and revival of sick units. The factories which shifted from Punjab during the past 10 years due to wrong policies of the previous regime will be setup again in the state, he added.
 
 Later in the day, Arora also held special interaction with the leading businessmen of the city, including S P Oswal from Vardhman Group, Onkar Singh Pahwa of Avon Cycles, Mohinder   from Janpath Estate, Harpreet Singh of Pact Industries, Rakesh Gupta from Eastman.
 
 Earlier addressing a full house where chairs went scarce due to huge rush of businessmen and local Congress leaders, Arora said Punjab’s new industrial policy was already a big success as the government has been able to sign more than 150 MoUs with different groups which will bring investment of more than Rs 60,000 in the state.
 
 He said a single window system for industrialists was also being launched in each deputy commissioner's office so that industrialists do not have to go from one office to another for getting different sanctions and redressal of their problems.
 
 On the occasion, industry and commerce department’s principal secretary Rakesh Kumar Verma, Punjab State Industries and Export Corporation managing director Rajat Aggarwal, industry and commerce department’s director D P S  , deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal and others were present.
 
 Some of the prominent industrialists who were present in the meeting included Harish Dua, Upkar Singh Ahuja, Narinder Chugh, Kulwant Singh, Vinod Thapar, SK Rai, Inderjit Singh Navyug, Narinder Bhamra, KK Garg.
 
 MoUs signed
 
 Happy Forgings Private Limited | Rs 400 cr
 
 Ludhiana Beverages Private Limited | Rs 220 cr
 
 Million Exports | Rs 200 cr
 
 Pact Industries Limited | Rs 170 cr
 
 Eastman International | Rs 90 cr
 
  | Rs 30 cr
 
 KG Exports | Rs 21 cr
 
 Sharu Steel | Rs 10 cr
 
 Ramaya Balaji Alloys Private Limited | Rs 6 cr
 
 KNL Drive Line Private Limited | Rs 10 cr
 
 Bonn Group of Industries | Rs 50 cr
 
 Trishala Alloys Private Limited | Rs 5.92 cr
 
 Jagraon Concast Private Limited | Rs 2.5 cr
 
 Skyway Forge | Rs 4 cr
 
 Panama Alloys | Rs 5 cr
 
 Seth International Corp | Rs 22 cr
 
 Bawa Knit Fab Private Limited | Rs 50 cr
 
 KHK Alloys Private Limited | Rs 2.5 cr
 
 Renny Strips Private Limited | Rs 25 cr
 
 Sardar Associates | Rs 2.5 cr
 
 SRV Steels | Rs 7.5 cr
 
 
