NAVI MUMBAI: Residents of Nerul, along Dr. D Y Patil Marg, Sector 13, have been complaining of pollution issues. Due to this, residents are forced to keep their windows shut all through the day. 

 Some locals have even complained to environmentalist D Stalin about this. “I visited the place and was surprised to see black soot like film on the walls, curtains and flooring of flats. This could be caused possibly due to the nearby MIDC TTC industrial zone or the quarries. This is a serious issue and needs to be reported to the Navi Mumbai office of the   ( ) since it concerns the health of the citizens in Nerul,” said Stalin.
 
 When TOI visited the affected areas, one resident said, “The MIDC industrial units are barely a kilometer away from the main Sion-Panvel Road. Sometimes we can see black smoke emanating from the industrial chimneys. That is why we try to keep our windows shut all the time to avoid breathing this pollution.”
 
 Meanwhile, MPCB regional official P Wankhede in-charge of the Nerul area said, 
 
 “The MIDC TTC industrial zone in Nerul has been there for over three decades while the residential complexes came up much later. However, if there is any pollution problem we will look into it and also send out notices if required.”
 
 According to another MPCB official, the quarries seen beyond the MIDC TTC zone are currently inactive as they were earlier ordered to shutdown. However, since there is hardly any ‘buffer zone’ between the industrial region and the residential colonies, locals are likely to face some problems due to poor localized air quality index. 
 
 “Between the MIDC industrial units and residential complexes there is just the main Sion-Panvel road. So that can hardly be termed as a buffer zone. Also, while the quarries are reportedly inactive, some of the locals have said that they can hea r distant sounds of blasts from the quarry sites. Hence that too needs to be investigated,” said Stalin.
 
 Nerul-based activist   said, “Under Article 47 of the Constitution of India, the state is duty bound to raise the standard of living and public health of its people. So, if in the past notices have been issued to the polluting units by MPCB then the authority must eventually shut down such units if they continue to belch out pollutants in the air.” 
 
 Sometimes we can see black smoke emanating from the industrial chimneys. That is why we try to keep our windows shut all the time to avoid breathing this pollution
 
 
