CHENNAI: The Indian paddlers are unstoppable at Gold Coast. After the women's team's gold medal show on Sunday, it was the turn of the men to rise to the occasion.

 
 
 
 
 The team comprising   Kamal, G   and   blanked   3-0 in the team event final. It was India's second gold in the   men's team event, the first coming in Melbourne in 2006.
 
 Nigeria, the surprise package of the competition, beat England in a marathon semifinal. In the final, too, they were ready to give India a fight. Sharath was a game down against Bode   but he fought back to win 4-11, 11-5, 11-4, 11-9. It was far from easy for the Chennai veteran after losing the first game, but Sharath changed his strategy and played a more aggressive game to help India take the lead.
 
 "Bode was very aggressive from the start and he put us on the backfoot. But I quickly realised I could only beat him if I could stop him from attacking and put him under pressure by making counter-attacks. Thankfully, my strategy clicked and I won the first match to set the tone for the team. It's a great feeling to win the gold after so many years," a delighted Sharath, who was playing his fourth CWG, told TOI from Gold Coast.
 
 For Sathiyan and Harmeet, it was their CWG debut, but they showed immense maturity once Sharath handed them the lead.
 
 Sathiyan, facing veteran Nigerian Segun Toriola, came up with a brilliant show to win 3-1 (10-12, 11-3, 11-3, 11-4) to double the lead for India. He seemed to have lost concentration after leading 10-6 in the first game, but the Chennai lad was quick to make amends and won three back-to-back games.
 
 "Though I lost the first game, I was very confident of beating him. I started moving fast and made some quick attacks to unsettle him in the second game. In the doubles match, Harmeet and I played strong from the very first point and we had it easy at the end.
 
 "It was my first CWG outing and it feels great to win the gold. Sharath was outstanding and he gave us a winning start. Nigeria came as a dark horse and we never expected them to beat England. But we had a solid team and we were confident of doing well. After our women's team won the gold, this is like the icing on the cake," Sathiyan said.
 
