GOLD COAST: White whale Migaloo visits the   every year during winter. It returned here ‘virtually’ on Wednesday at the Carrara Stadium to welcome the participants from 71 nations and territories at a colourful and meaningful opening ceremony for the Commonwealth ‘Friendly’ Games. The 11-day event will see 6,600 athletes competing in 275 events.

 
 
 
 Prince Charles read the Queen’s message, sent through the Queen’s Baton that passed through 230,000 kms in 388 days, before declaring the Games open in the presence of a host of VIPs including Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull, and a capacity crowd of 35,000. The baton passed through the hands of slew of Australian stars including hockey star Brent Livermoore before getting into the hands of the last runner  .
 
 
 
 The Indian contingent, led by Olympic silver medallist PV Sindhu, marched in The Parade of Nations which was led by 2014 hosts Scotland.
 
 The stadium, which will host the athletics events and the closing ceremony, changed into a mini Gold Coast, a surfers’ paradise, during the two-and-a-half hour spectacle that emphasised the theme of inclusiveness and which proudly showcased Australian history and heritage through the lives of the aboriginal community. 
 
  
  
 
 “The ancient Australian stories tell us that we are all connected though we are a half a world away,” the Queen said in her message as she conveyed her greetings to the participants and the Games workforce who worked tirelessly for this day.
 
 Despite the absence of glitz and pomp, the show stood out for its artistic elegance. The highlight was the track made for the Parade of Nations by artist and designer Bryan Robinson that depicted stars and the sea. The white circles connected by lines represented the two main star constellations and it had sea animals and shells that represented the participating nations. The track design had 21 boating vessels.
 
 The countdown began with the flashing of the number 65,000 — pointing to the oldest living culture on earth. As millions watched the show around the globe, came William Barton, one of Australia’s didgeridoo, a wind instrument of traditional Aussies, players and an advocate for the perception of indigenous cultural traditions. The Aussies then honoured all their 13 flag bearers of the Commonwealth Games starting from David Dickson who led the team in Kingston in 1966.
 
  
  
 
 Outside the opening ceremony, about 100 protesters tried to delay proceedings, chanting, “Always was, always will be Aboriginal land’ as they clashed with police. More demonstrations have been planned to protest against an event they have called ‘Stolenwealth Games’.
 
 
 
 The Indians walked in to a big roar as they waved and merried around in their dapper suits. But missing was the turbans and saree ensemble that set the Indian contingents apart during the previous Games. Instead it was an all-blue outfit. Flag bearer Sindhu seemed in a bit of a hurry, opening up a gap between her and the contingent. There was no change to the tradition as the Indian team officials walked in front and occupied vantage spots ahead of the stars. Sindhu was the only Indian shuttler at the ceremony as the others stayed away due to their early morning schedule on Thursday.
 
 The Indians’ attire was in complete contrast to most of the other nations who showcased their traditional gear in style. While the Scots came in wearing the kilts, the Nigerians stood out with their flashy headgear. The most colourful among the Europeans was Cyprus, in printed shirts, while the Caribbeans added to the mosaic of colours. New Zealand also vowed the crowd with eye-catching all-black outfits. The stadium erupted and confetti rained as the hosts got in last led by men’s hockey captain Mark Knowles.History meets culture at   opening ceremony
 
