When a group of passionate licensed weapon owners started the Coimbatore Rifle Club in 1953, they never imagined it would one day become a ‘factory’ that would churn out medal winning shooters. Now the club’s 280-odd members visit it regularly.

 Secretary of the club K Maruthachalam said that in the early 1950s, it was just an asbestos roof and a humble building which did not have much facilities. "It is only in the last two years that this facility has been developed with world-class amenities and has become one of the best shooting arenas in  ," he said. He had joined the club in 1984. At present, the club offers life membership and student membership. Even those without weapons, but with a passion for the sport, can be part of the club, he said.
 
 One of the oldest members of the club, 73-year-old S   said it was his father who encouraged him to take up the sport. "I went as a junior member along with my father in the early 1950s. G   was the founder secretary of the club and initially they taught us how to handle weapons. Those days, hunting was legal and we would go along with the members. But apart from that, they aimed to promote the sport; in the 1980s, G Damodaran represented India in an international event in 60m prone. The shooters from Coimbatore have been regular members of the club. "Even in those days, women have been an integral part of the club," he said. D Vidya Prakash, another member of the club, said Coimbatore’s youngsters have always had a passion for the sport since the 70s. "As part of rifle club, various events were held and the winners went on to represent the country in international events. Many people got into the club to sharpen their skills and went on to become medal winners," he said.
 
 J S Venkatachalapathy, one of the coaches at the club, said six women members in the current national shooting squad are from the club. "I came to the club only as a visitor with my friend, but passion for the sport turned me into a coach now and national shooters train under me," he said.
 
 It has faced its share of travails before becoming one of the sought-after clubs in the state. "Now we have several facilities and ranges for 25m, 10m and 0.22 and 0.32. The club provides all facilities, including weapons and electronic targets, for the members. We have six international shooting sports federation coaches to train members and of them many are from the  , as we have collaborated with them," he said..
 
 
