AHMEDABAD: Are   or have they indigenously developed a  ? An Israeli firm has questioned the genuineness of a software being used and sold by Surat’s diamond companies, claiming that 14 major firms are using pirated software.

 A commercial court in Vadodara will decide on a trademark suit filed by Israel’s Sarine Technologies Ltd against 14 Surat-based companies including Diyora & Bhanderi Corporation. It claims that 14 companies use and sell a pirated version of its copyrighted software ‘Advisor’, which is specifically developed for shaping, cutting and polishing diamonds.
 
 Sarine demanded an immediate interim stay on use of the software on the grounds it has got copyrights for the software registered in the US. According to an international treaty India and Israel have signed, India is bound to respect trademark rights and patents registered by Israel-based companies and its citizens. A commercial court in Vadodara heard the case and the diamond firms argued that the software, named ‘Mandakini-Work Manager’, was developed in Surat and is not a copy of ‘Advisor’. Moreover, the version of Advisor versions they use is a licensed copy. They argued that the source code and object code of their software are different. The commercial court rejected the Israeli’s company’s demand for stay till the the suit is decided.
 
 This brought Sarine before the Gujarat high court, which has ordered the lower court to take a fresh decision on the interim stay. Before the HC, the Surat companies argued that the Israeli firm wanted a monopoly on the diamond cutting and polishing industry by restraining them from using their own software.
 
 The HC felt that since the dispute is regards the genuineness of the software, the commercial court should get the source code and object code of the software developed by Sarine and the Surat companies. The codes should be given to an impartial independent expert to evaluate and compare, to find out whether the software the Surat companies claim to have developed, is a copy of the Israeli company’s software.
 
 
