Every visit to a nursery left Prasad   with a certain sense of disappointment. On one hand, the lush green saplings pleased him, but the plastic flower pots stacked up in the corner left him worried.

 “Plant nurseries are supposed to embody the ‘Grow Green, Go Green’ policy. However, plastic pots only encourage the use of plastic. That is why I felt the urge to create an ideal nursery that did not use even a tiny bit of plastic,” said, Singadi , a resident of Talegaon.
 
 As a child, Singadi had seen his mother make cow dung cakes and was well aware of the fact that dung cakes were quite strong. Therefore, he came up with the idea of creating plant pots using cow dung.
 
 “Another reason for choosing cow dung over clay, which is also environmentally friendly, is to find a way to contribute
 
 to a farmer’s income. We keep hearing of suicides by farmers, but very few of us actually think of doing anything about it. I decided to buy dung from the farmers. This would provide them with an alternative source of income,” said the 40-year-old chemical engineer, who quit his job to take up this initiative.
 
 After laying out his plan, the next six months were spent experimenting — trying to cook up the perfect recipe for durable cow dung pots.
 
 “I kept cow dung as the main ingredient and then started experimenting by mixing it with various other things to ensure strength. The only rule was that al ingredients had to be organic and environmentally-friendly,” he said.
 
 After a series of tests and fails, he came up with the perfect mixture of cow dung — gou mutra (cow urine), leaves of nirgundi (Vitex negundo) and neem (Azadirachta indica). “Once the pots were made, I started checking for their durability. I checked if they were developing cracks when water was stored in them overnight or when if they were collapsing after days of rain,” he said.
 
 Singadi’s day starts at 7am, with kneading of 100-200 kilos of cow dung. He cannot afford to waste time as the pot-making process is quite labour intensive. After kneading the dung, the rest of the day is spent making pots of specific dimensions.
 
 “Every day, I make almost 300 pots that are three, five and six inches deep. Prices range from Rs 20 to Rs 75, depending on the size. Apart from being eco-friendly, these pots also provide essential nutrients to the soil as cow dung is a great manure for plants,” he said.
 
 He has decided to name his project Primitive Indian Technology. ‘Let us carve our future in a traditional way,’ reads the tagline. “The methods and crafts that our ancestors passed on to us are important, though we are increasingly growing ignorant of them,” he said.
 
 Looking ahead,   plans to introduce many other commodities made of dung — such as paper, mosquito repellent coils and cow dung logs that can be used during cremation, instead of wood.
 
 “I wish to showcase the benefits of cow dung to the present generation.   is playing the role of India’s ‘Pad Man’; I want to become the Dung Man of  ,” he said.
  
 
