Gurap (Hooghly): Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has asked police to prevent display of arms during   processions on March 25. All police stations in Bengal have also been told to be on alert during the rallies.

 Speaking at the administrative meeting in Hooghly’s Gurap on Tuesday, Banerjee said: “I would ask police inspectors to keep a list of local clubs, NGOs, temples, mosques and churches in the area and keep in touch with them. I say this as part of community development to avert communal tension.”
 
 The CM’s words came hours before BJP state president Dilip Ghosh announced that rallyists will continue with the tradition of carrying arms.
 
 “Rallyists will carry arms as they do while taking out Ram Navami processions. I will also be there and carry a gada (mace) in one of the rallies,” Ghosh said at Howrah after a party meeting, days after RSS’s Bengal unit announced that it won’t carry arms during Ram Navami rallies. 
 
 The CM, while taking stock of projects in the district, lost her cool when informed that CPM leader and high court lawyer Bikash Bhattacharya had obtained an injunction from the HC for land-owners of Bhabadighi, stalling the laying of the Bishnupur-Tarakeswar railway line. “Raking up a ruckus is CPM’s only job. They did nothing when they were in power and are now throwing a spanner in development works. I will ask the district magistrate to get in touch with the land-losers before I take up the matter,” she said.
 
 Banerjee was visibly angry over the delay in the project that aims to connect the districts Bankura and Hooghly. “People want this project. We have to get it done. The land-owners have had enough of it. They have got compensation, an alternative pond, a school. What else do they want? ” the CM said.
 
 As many as four areas in the government sector — public works, public health engineering, Karma Tirtha and Kishan Mandi — were ticked off by the CM in the meeting. “The work of PWD is quite unsatisfactory. I don’t know why this department is failing deadlines,” Banerjee said after Trinamool MP Kalyan Bandyopadhyay pointed out that PWD has recently issued tender for construction of a road when the decision was taken in the administrative meeting in 2016. 
 
 The Hooghly DM told the CM that nine acres of land at Tarakeswar have been handed over to the higher education department for setting up the proposed green university in Hoogly. MSME secretary Rajiva Sinha informed in the meeting that the department has set up 18 clusters for handloom and muslim and a total 570 weavers have been trained and linked to the garment sector in Metiabruz.
 
 
