In the latest episode of  ,   sends   into a shock when her true identity comes out. She tries to run from there but cannot escape. Virat and   come there as well and surround her. Roma threatens to kill her and says her game is over.

 They first ask her about Tara’s whereabouts but she refuses to tell. She tries to run away but gets shot from behind by Deep. Roma and Prithvi also shoot her and then throw her down. It is all Arohi’s imagination when Deep catches her and asks her what happened. Arohi changes the topic and tells Deep that it was time for both of them to discover something. She brings him to the same hospital from where Deep called the doctor.
 
 Tara(Arohi) shows Deep a video about a nurse who had been bribed to kill Tara’s unborn child by Arohi. This confuses Deep.   tells him to find her and seek revenge.
 
 Deep wonders how come the glass had Arohi’s finger prints and the reports also had her name. Arohi once again accuses Deep of not trusting her and calls him disgusting. She says a dead Arohi was dangerous but knowing she was alive was even more unsafe.
 
 Arohi comes to her room and prays for Niku. Deep comes in and she weaves another tale. She says Deep never trusted her and she does not want to bring a child into a family like this. Deep tries to calm her down but Around angrily pushes him out and closes the door. Arohi then wonders if Deep will actually look for the real Arohi.
 
 The next day, Deep apologises and says that he loves Tara, who too says that she got too rude all because of Arohi. They make up and vow to kill their mortal enemy. Deep takes her to meet Niku.
 
 Deep and Arohi are on their way when Virat hits Deep from behind and calls him the culprit. Deep tries to make Virat understand and both of them go meet the witnesses who had accused him.
 
 When they ask the dancers, they tell them that it was Tara who gave them money and told them to take Deep’s name. They are both shocked and baffled. Deep decides to handle everything on his own and tells Virat to not tell Tara about anything.
 
