PANAJI: A 45-minute   in the early hours of Thursday left most of the state in darkness after 60kmph speed winds uprooted trees and toppled power lines and poles and lightning strikes damaged transformers. While power was restored to most parts by Thursday afternoon, in certain areas power was restored only by late Friday night, 40 hours later.

 Public relations officer and executive engineer C H Rajagopalan said damage to the department’s infrastructure has been one of the worst seen in recent years where conductors, insulators, poles and smaller transformers were also affected. Majority of the damage was caused in North Goa as compared to South Goa where the loss was estimated to be Rs 10 lakh.
 
 In North Goa, the damage to the high tension transformer at Mapusa itself has been estimated at Rs 60 lakh. Trees and branches falling on cables brought down many high and low tension poles and snapped conductors, which loss has been pegged at an additional Rs 3 lakh.
 
 When asked why many people were left without power despite pre-monsoon maintenance work carried out, Rajagopalan said the department is helpless in times of natural calamities.
 
 “If we did not carry out preventive maintenance, the effect would have been disastrous and much worse,” he said.
 
 Power was restored late Friday night in some pockets because the department gives priority to restoring high tension lines that affect a larger population, Rajagopalan said, adding that there’s no point restoring low tension lines unless the high tension ones are made functional.
 
 Department officials said that at 3am on Friday, the transformer from Nagoa substation was brought to Mapusa and that by 7am it was installed. “We have commenced testing the transformer after which we will charge it. Hopefully, by Friday evening, power will be restored,” assistant engineer Subhash Parsekar told TOI.
 
 Parsekar said that as an interim measure, since Thursday night, power was supplied to the areas of Anjuna and Assago on an two-hourly alternating basis.
 
 All four circuits that come from the main substation in Xeldem in Quepem to Nesaai in Sao Jose de Areal that in turn supply power to Margao, Benaulim and Colva went down on Thursday with department staff struggling to find and fix the faults till late Friday evening. While, two circuits were fixed, the staff were still struggling to fix the other two. It is taking time to locate the fault along the lines that pass through forest area, officials said. Areas where underground cabling was carried out, for example in   and the entire South Goa coastal belt, parts of Margao, Loutolim and parts of Vasco, were less affected.
 
