GURUGRAM: City-based environmental activists are cautioning   that the rough draft of its ‘green’ plan for Gurugram, to tackle dust pollution, might fall flat if they aren’t planned properly. They are demanding the plan be coupled with feasibility studies and expert opinion, along with a ‘right intent’ to increase the city’s green cover.

 Vivek Kamboj, who runs the NGO Haryali, said the state government first needs to tweak its master plan for the city, which mentions green belts as solely made for future expansion of roads. 
 
 “On the one hand, they call them green belts. On the other, trees are chopped down every time a road needs to be expanded. What’s the point in planting new trees then? Government agencies should first save trees that are already there,” said Kamboj.
 
 Other environmentalists also expressed similar concerns, and said the biggest challenge to any environmental scheme is lack of intent from the government. 
 
 “The idea should not be to succumb to orders and produce stop-gap arrangements. The government need to bring in experts and conduct feasibility studies before they commit to such plans. Moreover, we need forests in the city, not just landscaping,” said   Vaishali Rana Chandra.
 
 Many others also referred to the instance when MCG spent Rs 21 lakh to plant palm trees to beautify the city for the Prime Minister’s visit. Chandra said they should plant trees that are suited to the local topography, and also purify the air, such as neem, peepul and dhak. However, they said, irrespective of the species, benefit of such tree planting can only be felt a decade or so later.
 
 “Any sapling they plant will take a decade at a minimum to have any impact. For short term impact, they can experiment with ‘vertical forests’ along pillars and buildings. Many places, such as Mexico City and Singapore, are doing it,” said Suhail Madan of Conservation Education Centre at Bombay Natural History Society.
 
 He added that Gurugram could follow Singapore's lead and focus on restoring ecological balance, instead of just plantation. Chetan Agarwal, another city-based environmentalist, reiterated that the biggest factor was government’s intent. 
 
 “That the state industries minister is also the state environment minister, and the state PWD minister is also the state forest minister, itself says a lot about this government’s intent,” he said.
 
 
