NEW DELHI: The   on Friday filed a supplementary prosecution complaint (chargesheet) against former   director   in connection with a Rs 5,000 crore bank fraud involving   (SBL) of the Sandesara group of companies.

 In its supplementary chargesheet, the ED claimed that the Sandesaras had paid over Rs 1.52 crore to Garg as quid pro quo for facilitating bank credit and other transactions. Garg was arrested by the ED on January 12 and is in judicial custody. The agency has attached his properties worth Rs 1.23 crore.
 
 “Promoters of SBL, the Sandesaras, were accused of supplying regular money in Delhi to Garg, the then director of Andhra Bank with the help of ‘Angarias’ (hawala dealers). These cash payments were made to Anup Garg on the instructions of Chetan Jayantilal Sandesara (promoter of Sterling Biotech) by withdrawing cash from bank accounts of several benami companies related to SBL,” the ED claimed in its chargesheet in what is considered to be a politically sensitive case.
 
 The matter concerns Vadodara-based SBL and its directors, who allegedly took loans of more than Rs 5,000 crore from a consortium of banks led by Andhra Bank. The entire loan amount has turned into a non-performing asset, and the SBL group and its directors, with alleged links to an influential politician, have been accused of laundering this money abroad through several shell companies using bogus export/import invoices.
 
 The ED had earlier arrested and chargesheeted a Delhi-based businessman, Gagan Dhawan, known for his proximity to the influential politician. The agency attached Dhawan’s properties, including a plot in DLF Phase-3 in Gurgaon worth over Rs 1.17 crore. Dhawan is suspected to be a front for investments by his politician friends, according to ED officials.
 
 Last year, the ED had conducted searches on 11 premises of the Gujarat-based firm in Mumbai, Delhi, Ahmedabad and Vadodara for alleged money laundering. Some of their transactions were traced to Nigeria, Dubai, British Virgin Islands and the US.
 
 The modus operandi, explained one official, was to launch more than a hundred “paper companies” that laundered money abroad through hawala dealings and by showing exports on fake invoices and inflated bills.
 
 Dhawan is an important link for probe agencies, especially with regard to alleged money laundering. Another accused, a Delhi-based lawyer with political links, is also being probed for laundering money. The agencies have unearthed details of several cash transactions and purchase of a farmhouse and some other properties associated with him. Shokeen Properties and its transactions involving Dhawan are also under investigation, an official said.
 
 
