KOLKATA: The city was lashed by a thunderstorm on Wednesday morning — the third of the month. It triggered a steady drizzle, uprooted trees and disrupted traffic in some parts of Kolkata. Dark thunderclouds hung low over the city till the   struck with a wind speed of 35km/hr pulling the mercury down by six degrees.

 
 
 According to the Met office, it was triggered by clouds that were generated in the neighbouring districts of Hoogly, Burdwan and Nadia. A cyclonic circulation that stretched between   and north   also aided the storm.
 
 
  
 
 Weathermen explained that Wednesday’s thunderstorm — which struck at 9.45am — was not a nor’wester. “Generally, heating over the   plateau attracts moisture and leads to the formation of thunderclouds that travel towards Kolkata from the northwest. But on Wednesday, we had clouds forming locally over the districts, aided by the moisture incursion that had been happening over the last 48 hours. So, the clouds travelled a shorter distance to Kolkata which caused the storm early,” said Regional Meteorological Centre ( ) director GK Das.
 
 He added that the morning thunderstorm was more like a pre-monsoon shower which is triggered by local clouds. “We are approaching monsoon and this is a transitory season. So, local clouds will now start forming which will alter the thunderstorm pattern. While a typical summer-time storm will invariably occur between late afternoon and evening, local clouds lead to early storms and showers,” added Das.
 
 Mercury dropped by as much as six degrees, tumbling to around 24°C from 30°C. The cooling effect lasted through the day. Real feel temperature — calculated based on humidity, intensity of sun rays, wind speed, cloudiness and precipitation — dropped below 30°C, according to a private weather forecasting service. It slid to 21°C early in the evening.
 
 The Met office didn’t rule out the possibility of a thunderstorm on Thursday. Conditions remain favourable due to the incursion of moisture and the presence of the circulation. “Till these two persist, another thunderstorm is a possibility,” said Das.
 
