HOSHIARPUR: Following his visit to the hillocks, largely comprising stones, at Dhamian village near   in Hoshiarpur, Punjab local bodies minister Navjot Singh   on Monday said that if stones were there then it could fulfil the gravel demand in the state and also add to revenue of the government.

 “According to a Union government study, if only a 3sq km area of a 30-foot high hillock is quarried, then it can be enough to fulfil the demand of gravel for entire Punjab and this will also make the earth cultivable after the stones and gravel is quarried,” Sidhu said after visiting a site, along with officials. Giving figures, he said that a 10-foot high hillock in an area of 1 sq km area could give 32 lakh metric tonnes of gravel and sand and a 30-foot high could give one crore metric tonnes of the same material. 
 
 Sidhu, who heads the cabinet sub-committee on mining, said that, “There is potential of installing 1,000 crushers in the area, which can then add Rs 1,500 crore to the state exchequer and can also generate employment,” he said, adding that quarrying in the area could also help in levelling of the land to make it more suitable for agriculture.
 
 Turning to sand mining, he said, “It can generate revenue of Rs 4,000 crore.   has 350-km-long Godawari and it has set a goal of raising Rs 1,400 crore from sand mining. It could increase its income from 10 crore to 750 crore annually and in the current year they have already earned Rs 41 crore in 11 days. But in Punjab during the Parkash Singh Badal regime the entire sand mining brought only Rs 40 crore to the state exchequer. Clearly, their policy was to help certain profiteers,” Sidhu said. “The total length of the three rivers is 1,150 km and there could be three times more sand than Telangana and three times more income,” he maintained.
 
 Meanwhile, Sidhu also said that their sub-committee would hold a final meeting in two days and they would finalize the report. He also held a meeting with owners of crushers to get their inputs also. Mining principal secretary Jaspal Singh, director Kumar Rahul and DC Vipul Ujjwal were also present on the occasion.
 
 
