MYSURU: Forest department authorities have warned owners of captive elephants, including temples, of legal action if the animals were found to be abused or harassed. The animals would be taken into possession, they said.

 The authorities recently issued a warning to temple managements in the state, including the famous   in   and other elephant owners. Forest department records show that there are 23 organizations which own 36 elephants in the state.
 
 During regular medical checkups of elephants from forest department veterinarians, it was found that some captive elephants sustained physical injuries, were made to walk or stand for long durations on tarred roads under the hot sun, heavily chained, bruised by shackles around their legs, and frightened by noisy surroundings and improper medical care.
 
 Nanjangud Sri Srikanteshwara Temple Committee former president   told TOI that the temple authorities do not take care of the temple elephant.
 
 “Three people were given the responsibility of taking care of the elephant. Forest department doctors conduct regular medical checkups. When the elephant had suffered a leg injury and the wound was infected, the forest department had treated it. It also issued notice to the temple authorities, advising a regular walk, proper food, and forbidding them to make the animal stand for long hours in front of the temple. But all this advice fell on deaf ears,” he said.
 
 The situation of captive elephants is no different in other places. A few years ago, two elephants housed in Suttur Mutt at the   foothills were handed over to the forest department after they ran amok and created panic among the public. Similarly, last year, three of six female elephants in Mysuru Palace were handed over to the forest department by the Mysuru royal family.
 
  (Project Elephant)   told TOI that elephant owners, including temple administrations, had been through an orientation session on how to maintain elephants, their health, and the laws under which they can be booked if they failed to adhere to directions.
 
 “In case they don’t follow directions and violate rules, we direct the district-level committee on elephants to send a report on the animals and their condition, then take legal action against the owners and take possession of the elephants,” he said.
 
