MUMBAI: The city's toxic air has led to a sharp increase in cases of coughing, breathlessness and allergies. Outpatient departments are teeming with not only patients with lung ailments, but also those with supposedly healthy respiratory systems. 

 Chest physician Dr Ashok Mahasur, who consults with PD  , Mahim, attributed the 20-30% increase in patient flow to poor air quality. "Poor air quality is prolonging recovery," he said. Explaining how pollution aggravates respiratory ailments, he said high levels of particulate matter gives rise to irritation in breathing tubes, leading to excessive cough and discomfort.
 
 For those with asthma,   (COPD) and lung fibrosis, the last few days have been hellish. "Their symptoms have worsened. Among some, the dependence on oxygen has increased," said chest physician Dr Sujeet Rajan.
 
 The impact of deteriorating air quality can be clearly felt at the state-run JJ Hospital's OPD, where nearly 30% of patients are coming with a history of prolonged throat irritation, cough and breathlessness. Unit head of internal medicine department Dr Hemant Gupta said immune-suppressed people, particularly those with diabetes or kidney disease, are having a difficult time. "Unfortunately, a lot of these cases are mismanaged by doctors, who prescribe unnecessary antibiotics. Often, a prolonged anti-allergic course is adequate," he said. "Cough is a natural reflex, where respiratory products are expelled out, but self-medication suppresses the process, causing respiratory distress."
 
 Doctors are unanimous that if cough is too disabling and lingers despite medication, it would be wise to stay indoors. As for better management, Dr Mahasur said asthmatics shouldn't forget to use a preventive inhaler regularly, while COPD patients should follow a rehab and diet programme and work on immunity with a high-protein diet.
 
 Dr Rajan said concerns about air quality need to be ingrained, and not sporadic. A two-year-old study of which he was a part had found that lung function of Mumbaikars on average had dropped by 20% in 20 years. "We spend so much time debating food and water, even though we eat about 2kg of food and drink about 2-3 litres of water a day," he said. "But we breathe in and out 10,000 litres of air and we need to wake up to that fact."
 
 
