BHUBANESWAR: State police have decided to develop a   (SOP) to effectively deal with   and crimes in the state. 

 Director-general of police  , who is the chairperson of the state-level security committee for railways in Odisha, said the proposed SOP will lay down specific roles and responsibilities of the state and railway officials during crises.
 
 The railway ministry formed a security committee in every state to look after the safety of railways and passengers. On Tuesday, Sharma convened a meeting of security committees members, which included senior officers from state police, intelligence bureau (IB),   (GRP) of Odisha and railway protection force (RPF).
 
 "We unanimously decided to develop the SOP soon for effective disaster and crime management. At present, state and railway officials tackle crisis situations independently. We want better coordination between the state and railway authorities," Sharma told TOI. The top cop refrained from setting a deadline for preparation of the SOP. 
 
 At the high-level meeting, Sharma asked the railway security representatives to ensure installation of CCTV cameras in trains and stations. Recently, the Centre announced to bring all trains under CCTV surveillance in view of crimes, mostly harassment of women passengers. A railway source said there are 313 stations in the state, of which only 83 have CCTVs. "We also requested the railways to install baggage scanners in more stations and intensify checking and frisking of passengers," said additional director general of police (railways and coastal security) Pranabindu Acharya.
 
 Atul Pathak, inspector general-cum-principal chief security commissioner of East Coast Railway (ECoR), stressed on measures to curb thefts on station premises. "We observed that the thefts of mobile phones by miscreants have increased on station premises. Such offences have come down inside trains. I suggested that the chairperson form a team to hunt for mobile phone thieves," Pathak said. He said such offences inside the trains came down due to heavy deployment of RPF personnel.
 
 The committee asked the GRP to intensify patrolling on station premises. Unlike RPF, the GRP is authorised to check and investigate IPC-related crimes. While a total of 105 theft cases were reported on station premises in the state in 2016, the number shot up to 152 in 2017, a railway source said. Thefts inside trains came down to 544 in 2017 from 560 in 2016.
 
 
