LUCKNOW: Even as the   is crying foul over the appointment of   as the   as he was away from the service between 2008 and 2012 and even joined BJP and a  ,   says that there was no irregularity found in his service record.

 "No issue was found pending against him and hence he has been posted,” principal secretary, home, told TOI . Sherpa was one of the 26 senior IPS officers shifted a couple of days ago. His appointed in the crucial Gorakhpur zone, the home town of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, triggered an uproar in the social media. It was alleged that he had been given key posting for his past linke with the BJP. The government, however, described it as an ‘uncalled for insinuation’.
 
 
 “After four-year absence, he was not only taken back to service by the previous SP government in 2012, but was also given two promotions after that. Besdies, during SP regime, he has served as assistant to the DGP, an IGrank post, which is far more important than the ADG of a zone," says a senior home department official. At present, he was posted as the ADG, CB-CID.
 
 The 56-year-old officer had sought VRS in October 2008 when he was commandant at Sitapur battallion of PAC and reportedly lobbied with top BJP leaders then to contest from Darjeeling Lok Sabha seat. However, the party fielded veteran leader Jaswant Singh. Sherpa then quit BJP to join its rival outfit in Darjeeling -- Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League (ABGL). However, his plea for theVRS was turneddown by the Union home ministry as he had not completed mandatory 20 years of service. “Therefore, Sherpa didn’t contest the poll,” says a police department source.
 
 Finally, after four years of absence, Sherpa joined back UP Police in April 2012, during Samajwadi Party government as superintendent of police and was promoted as in DIG and again as IS in 2013 itself and was finally made ADG in January 2016.
 
 Nothing amiss was detected in Sherpa’s service records, say home department officials. “We have screened background of all IPS and PPS officials recently. Nothing wrong was found in Sherpa’s service book. Moreover, no disciplinary action had been taken or remained pending against him and hence he was considered for posting,” said principal secretary, home, Arvind Kumar.
 
 “Maybe because he did not taste success, he decided to return. Ministry of home affairs is the cadre controlling authority for members of All India services and clearly some people have gone soft on Dawa Sherpa to let him continue,” said former DGP Vikram Singh who quoted rule 5 of All India Services (Conduct) Rules. Under Clause 2 of Article 311of constitution, an officer can be dismissed from services for being associated with political party or any organization into politics.
 
