NEW DELHI: Exactly two months after 17 people were charred to death at a factory in   in the worst fire tragedy seen by the city since the  , crime branch has filed a chargesheet in the case.

 Apart from the two factory proprietors, Manoj Jain and Lalit Goyal, police have also charged two godown owners, Girish and Surjeet Goyal, for culpable homicide and under Explosives Act for the incident. It was found that the owners had a small laboratory on the ground floor from which the fire started.
  
  
 The illegal firecracker factory functioning in the garb of a plastic products manufacturing unit had caught fire on January 20 around 6pm. The victims, mostly labourers, were trapped inside a room as escape routes had been blocked by unauthorised construction and locked gates. The probe also revealed that the   had also employed child labourers, whose identities have been verified by their parents.
 
 In the 800-page chargesheet, police have detailed how the factory owners fled to the airport instead of helping the victims. The factory owners were arrested a day after the incident. The chargesheet was filed before a judge at Rohini court in presence of advocate Rishipal who is representing the victims.
 
 The chargesheet mentioned that the factory had only one entry and exit point due to which the workers could not escape. The fire extinguishers at the factory were non-functional. There were more than 28 cartons of explosive materials kept in the premises. A few kilograms of firecrackers were also strewn on the ground. The fire spread when these crackers exploded when the workers trampled on them while trying to run outside.
 
 A prime witness, Roop Prakash, claimed that Jain had started manufacturing the crackers 10-15 days before the incident. He was aware of the hazards but ignored it. Jain had rented out a godown near the factory where he was storing the  . Over 1,000kg crackers were seized from there.
 
 It was found that Lalit Goyal was drinking in his car parked outside the factory. He fled as soon as he saw the fire. He had asked the supervisor Arvind to lock the gates. Arvind had climbed onto the adjacent terrace and jumped down to save his life. He fractured his leg in the process.
 
 Goyal, Jain, Girish and Surjeet were partners in the business since December 2017 and used to visit the factory in turns. Police sources said they are waiting for forensic reports to confirm the presence of explosives in the factory.
 
 
