KOLKATA: More than four lakh people living in Kestopur,  , Tegharia and both sides of VIP Road till the airport will get filtered water soon. The   has planned to set up overhead water tanks in these areas to supply filtered water from the   treatment plant. The   ( ) is preparing a detailed project report.

 Presently, the water demand of the entire area is met by underground water but there is still shortage. The situation turns worse during the peak summer season.
 
  
  
 “Presently, around 4.5 million gallons of water from underground reserve is used every day to meet the demands of this huge area — from   No. 1 to ward No. 21 under the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation. Once the water tanks are set up, the problem of water shortage will be a thing of the past as we will be able to bring more than 10 million gallons per day (MGD) of filtered water from the New Town plant,” said an official of the corporation’s water supply department. The New Town water treatment plant, from where water would be supplied, has a storage capacity of 100 MGD.
 
 “Already, plots have been identified where the tanks will be set up. Our objective is to provide the residents of these areas with sweet filtered water just like  ,” said Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation mayor  .
 
 According to plans, one water tank will cater to two adjacent wards. A few wards, though, will have their own tanks. Land marking work is going on and KMDA is preparing a DPR following which the cost estimates will be fixed before floating tenders. Work of laying pipeline is also on.
 
 “It would really be wonderful. We have been drinking underground water for years now but the water level is going down very fast,” said Sudipto Chaudhuri, a general manager with an   and a resident of Ward 10 of Baguiati. “Presently, the water that we get has excessive iron content which is a health hazard. Besides, the underground water level is coming down which can lead to arsenic contamination. It will be a boon if we get filtered water,” said Abhijit Dasgupta, a retired private firm executive and a Tegharia resident.
 
