Mumbai: In what marks the end of one of the largest bankruptcy proceedings, creditors of   & Energy on Tuesday approved the sale of the company to a grouping controlled by   and  . Aion Investments, a private equity fund, is owned by banking giant   and US-based  .

 While Monnet Ispat didn’t provide any details of the takeover offer, creditors, which have an exposure of over Rs 10,400 crore, are likely to take a haircut of nearly 75%. The consortium, in which Aion holds 70% and JSW Steel owns 30%, had made an offer of Rs 3,700 crore. Of this offer, Rs 2,650 crore will be paid to lenders while the remaining Rs 1,050 crore will be infused as equity into Monnet Ispat.   will have a 75% stake in Monnet Ispat, while creditors and the company’s promoters will hold nearly 9% and 3%. The Aion-JSW bid, approved by almost all the creditors, needs regulatory clearances.
  
  
 
 Monnet Ispat, promoted by JSW Steel chief Sajjan Jindal’s brother-in-law Sandeep Jajodia, is into sponge iron, steel and power. The non-steel businesses will be transferred into a separate company to be sold later. Monnet Ispat’s Raigarh facility has an annual capacity to manufacture 1.5 million tonnes of steel bars. In fiscal 2017, the Delhi-based company reported a loss of Rs 2,132 crore. 
 
 In 2014, the Supreme Court had cancelled coal block allocations, which was one of the factors that hit Monnet Ispat’s fortunes. The company’s shares ended at Rs 23, up nearly 5% compared to Monday’s closing price following the news of creditors favouring the bid of Aion-JSW. 
 
 Tata Steel, Vedanta and private equity player SSG had shown interest for Monnet Ispat but only Aion-JSW made an offer. Besides Monnet Ispat, JSW Steel, the country’s largest private sector metal producer with an annual capacity of 18 million tonnes, had made a bid for Essar Steel in partnership with Russian bank VTB.
 
 In the recent past, creditors had approved the bids of Tata Steel and Vedanta for Bhushan Steel and Electrosteel Steels.
 
 
