MUMBAI: More than two months after the murder of former   corporator,  , in Kandivli, police on Thursday   two key accused in the case from  . 

 Jagdish Pawar aka Jaggya and Abhishek Mane alias Blacky were moving from one location to another, keeping police teams on their toes. While Pawar attributed personal grudge as the motive, police are looking at other possibilities after Sawant’s daughter, Prajakta, recently complained that her father’s securing cable TV distribution rights in Samta Nagar had upset his rival. With this, arrests in the case have gone up to eight, including a minor. 
 
 
  
 
 Sawant, a two-time corporator, was returning home on a bike after dinner at a Kandivli restaurant with his associate, Vinod Sonawane, around 10.45pm on January 7. As they neared his residence at Sur building, an   came up from behind. One of the occupants kicked the bike, sending Sonawane and Sawant to the ground. Sonawane got up to chase the auto. The vehicle halted and few men stepped out and   Sawant nearly 20 times. Sonawane froze but got a good look at one of the assailants’ faces. He later told cops it was Pawar, a former aide of Sawant.
 
 Pawar and Mane fled to Kalyan after the murder, while other accused went their ways. “Being habitual criminals, they knew what police would do to find them. They kept changing mobile numbers as they moved to Pune, Goa, Kolhapur, Konkan and even Ajmer in Rajasthan. Once, they returned to Mumbai, planning to surrender, but developed cold feet and fled,” said an official. Police teams had camped at various locations to hunt for the duo. Early on Thursday, one team got a tip-off that the duo was in Sangli for two days and were to meet someone. The duo was nabbed and brought to Mumbai, where a magistrate court remanded them to police custody till March 23.
 
 Pawar told police he took Rs65,000 out of his   fund to move from one location to another. “Pawar had collected money for the wedding but he used up most of it on travel and other expenses,” said a police official. Investigators will try to ascertain if Pawar acted on anyone’s behalf. 
 
 Others arrested were auto driver Ganesh Jogdand, who ferried the killers to the crime scene, Sohail Dodhiya, who hired Jogdand’s auto, a 17-year-old boy from Pune who was involved in the stabbing, Vishal Gaikwad (Mane’s nephew), who sheltered the killers, RTI activist Anil Waghmare, a mastermind, and former cop, Deepak Hanvate, who sheltered Waghmare. Police said Waghmare had an axe to grind with Sawant and teamed up with Pawar. 
 
 “Waghmare had apparently filed RTI pleas against a builder’s project and demanded money for staying mum. Sawant had foiled attempts at extorting money from the builder,” said an official. “Pawar, who had known Sawant for long, was irked as he was dismissed as his bodyguard.”
 
 
