Edited: 430 words Quote: By confirming the historical facts behind the antiques I collect, I organise exhibitions for school children and encourage them to pursue archaeology Trichy: Poverty and circumstances deprived 31-year-old Periyasamy Arumugam to study archaeology after losing his father, the sole breadwinner of the family, about 15 years ago. But Periyasamy did not consider it as a setback. He followed his passion by collecting antiques available on the surface of erstwhile settlements, mostly found along river banks. He has thousands of antiques including sangam era coins, remains of weapons and ornaments over a decade-old in his collection. Periyasamy also conducts exhibitions free of cost at government schools explaining the history of his antiques. A native of Uppiliyapuram, a sleepy hilly village near Thuraiyur, Periyasamy said that he realised his passion towards history and archaeology at the age of 15, post which he started collecting rare coins. As his interest towards numismatics evolved into collecting antiques, Periyasamy said he started visiting the erstwhile settlements on river banks that were abandoned over a period of time. “Civilisations flourished along river banks. Most of the villages, particularly in our hilly region, will have a place that was once resided by people but later abandoned. Exploring such abandoned places during monsoons would fetch a lot of antique items,” Periyasamy told TOI. For the past 16 years Periasamy has toured more than 15 remote villages across Trichy to collect antiques that includes ornaments made of animal bones, valari (indigenous boomerang weapon) and silambu (traditional anklet). After surveying the centuries-old settlements, including ones near Musiri, Thuraiyur and Thottiyam, Periyasamy’s collections swelled in quantity that includes centuries-old pottery ruins, earrings made of clay, weapons, clay toys and conch ornaments. “Senior archaeologists at Tamilaga Tholliyal Kazhagam (group of archaeology enthusiasts) nurtured my skills to analyse antiques after I joined them in 2005. They helped me confirm the historical facts behind my collection, Periyasamy said. Since his family situation denied him an opportunity to pursue archaeological studies, the 31-year-old now running a mobile phone service centre in Uppliyapuram opined that he feel contended to encourage school children towards archaeology. After completing his BA in history through correspondence, Periyasamy dedicates one hour a day to study archaeology books to share correct facts to the school children he meets. He has hosted more than 100 free antique exhibitions at schools. Periyasamy said that he would continue his activities and promote awareness, to help youth comprehend the glories of the past.