KRISHNAGAR: Neighbours of Khokon Sikdar — one of the two Nadia victims of IS terror in Iraq’s Mosul — initially did not allow his coffin to be brought down from the vehicle after it reached his village Illshamari in Nadia’s Tehatta on Tuesday.

 For over an hour, the villagers demanded compensation on par with what was given to the kin of Mosul victims from   by their state government. Khokon’s widow Namita Sikdar said, “No one came forward to help us. I appeal that I be given a government job.”
 
 The protests happened in the presence of   president  , who accompanied the vehicle carrying the coffin. One of the demonstrators questioned, “While the Punjab government announced compensation, why is the state government still silent on the issue?”
 
 Protests apart, tears and cries were heard aloud from family members of both Khokon and   Tikadar, the other Mosul victim also from Nadia. Samar hailed from   village in Nadia’s Chopra. His widow Dipali fainted and her children cried aloud when his coffin reached their home.
 
 Dipali’s sister Anna said, “My sister had earlier appealed for a government job but we’ve received no word on it.” Besides working at an ICDS centre, Dipali makes bidis to support her children and herself.
 
 Ever since they were abducted by ISIS in 2014, along with 37 other Indians, both their families believed they would return home. Even when unconfirmed reports circulated that all the abducted Indians were killed, Namita was reluctant to accept it. But she reluctantly came around to the fact that Khokon was no more after external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj’s announcement about two weeks ago. Both Tikadar and Khokon were construction workers in Mosul. They had gone to Iraq around six years ago through middlemen operating as recruiters.
 
 DM Nadia Sumit Gupta said, “We still have no information about compensation.”
 
 State minister Ujjal Biswas went to Samar’s house with the coffin and when he was asked about compensation, the minister said: “When the duo went missing in Iraq, we provided ICDS jobs to their wives Dipali Tikadar and Namita Sikdar. We are beside the families but we can’t say anything now as the panchayat elections have been declared.”
 
