KOLKATA: Kolkata Police is going to instal a thousand pedestrian barriers, like the ones used to stop cars at toll plazas or mall parking kiosks, at 250 crossings all over the city to discipline jaywalkers and arrest the sudden spike in road accidents.

 The first three sets of such barriers are going to be ins-talled before the end of the week at three major crossings: Exide, Park Street-Chowringhee and the D L Khan Road-Lower Circular Road. The first phase of work will see 75 important crossings getting these barriers but the overall plan is to arm traffic cops with 1,000 such barriers at 250 crossings all over the city. Busy intersections like Esplanade, Park Circus, Brabourne Road and Jadavpur are likely to be part of the first phase of work.
 
 
  
 
 “We are the first police force in the country to implement such a project. They will be functioning at three crossings within the next two or three days and, in the next two months, we plan to cover 72 major crossings with these barriers,” additional commissioner of police (traffic) Vineet Goyal said.
 
 Each of these automated “pedestrian boom barriers” costs around Rs 70,000 and the overall project cost will be Rs 7 crore. “All the barriers will be in sync with the traffic signals at these key cross-ings,” a senior cop said. “The standard rectangular beam will open (vertical position) allowing pedestrians to pass when the pedestrian signal turns green and will drop down (horizontal position) when the signal is red.”
 
 Officials said they would separate footpaths across the city from the carriageway with the help of iron rails before the installation of these barriers. 
 
 “We have already started segregating footpaths from carriageways. A thousand civic volunteers will be deployed to ensure pedestrians do not spill on to the road through gaps,” deputy commissioner (traffic)   said.
 
 Over half the number of the city’s road accident victims in 2017 were pedestrians (172 out of 329 fatalities). The situation hasn’t changed this year either, with 13 of the 30 who died till Monday being pedestrians.
 
 Cops claim the high-end automated barriers will solve the   problem but motorists doubt it; all previous measures, including constructing footbridges and subways and putting up guard rails, have failed to rein in jaywalkers.
 
 “Prosecution comes with a nominal fine of between Rs 10 and Rs 50. Nothing but stiffer penalties will work,” Alipore resident   said.
 
 Pedestrians, however, blame everything else — from buses disgorging passengers in the middle of the road to unplanned median dividers — for the jaywalking problem.
 
 “What else can we do but run to the middle of the road if a bus stops there instead of at the designated halt? Cops should first rein in buses before blaming us for accidents,”   resident   said.
 
 
