BENGALURU: The   on Tuesday said they will ask the   if imported helmets   can be used by motorists. Riders who use   will face no action until the cops get a response.

 The decision comes after a TOI report — No imported helmets, wear ISI ones, say cops — on Tuesday highlighted the concerns of professional bikers who claimed that such helmets, certified by international agencies, are better than those with ISI marks.
 
 Refuting a social media post by traffic police saying such helmets will be allowed, additional commissioner of police (traffic) R Hithendra had said riders will have to wear only ISI-mark helmets.
 
 
 
 
 BTPwill write to the transport department seeking clarification about ISI helmets in view of the claims from the buyers of   are better than ISI. Till they reply BTP will take no action (sic),” Hithendra tweeted on Monday.
 
 On Tuesday evening, Hitendra tweeted to elicit the views of bikers on the demand to postpone the drive. More than 90 people responded to this tweet: Some welcomed postponement, and a few others said the drive must go on against those riding without helmets or wearing substandard ones.
 
 Professional motorcyclist Santosh Kumar, also associated with Motorcycle Travellers Meet, said bikers in the city have begun collating data on helmet quality, and they will make a representation before the transport department to consider allowing use of such helmets. Santosh said not letting riders use such helmets would defeat the purpose of the law, which was put in place to ensure that people wear good quality headgear.
 
 Advocate Shamanth Kumar, also a professional motorcyclist, said: “We are seeking an appointment with the transport commissioner this week or early next week. If we get no relief from the department, we will file a petition in the high court.”
 
 While pointing out that all imported helmets are cleared by the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS), which awards the ISI mark, traders said imported headgear are of much better quality.
 
 Transport commissioner B Dayananda said: “We are yet to receive any communication from traffic police, but it is common sense they must allow these helmets if they are safer than ISI ones. The whole pur- pose of the enforcement is to enhance people’s safety.”
 
 
