NAGPUR: The state urban development has sanctioned Rs 18.25 crore for rejuvenation and beautification of  .   ( ), which had submitted a detailed project report (DPR) to the government, will execute the project.

 Besides rejuvenation, the project includes developing a children’s park and food court on the bank of the lake, a pathway around the lake and planting trees.
 
 NMC junior engineer Sandip Lokhande said that recharge shafts (sort of borewells) would be dug inside the bed of the lake to charge it with groundwater. “This solution was given to us by Chetan Gajbhiye, retired deputy director of Groundwater Survey and Development Agency (GSDA). He is an expert in the field of water conservation and rejuvenation of water bodies and is famous for Chetan bandharas,” he said.
 
 NMC will also desilt the lake as part of the rejuvenation process. “We have already obtained success by doing this last year. It is April end but the lake still has water. Earlier, it used to go dry in January or February,” said Lokhande.
 
 A children’s park would be developed on the north side of the lake. It would come up near Pragati Society. A pathway for walkers would be constructed all around the lake. 
 
 The existing boundary wall of the lake would be repaired to stop seepage. “The wall would also be constructed in the remaining part of the lake boundary. This will help in conserving the lake and prevent water from overflowing into the adjoining area during heavy rains. It will be constructed of black stone,” said the JE.
 
 As part of beautification, a large number of trees would be planted around the lake. Landscaping and installation of electric lights on the banks are also on the anvil.
 
 Sandip Joshi, NMC ruling party leader, said that the lake would become a tourist spot. “It will be a big draw for not only the people living nearby. People from other parts of the city would also visit it,” he said. Joshi was instrumental in desilting the lake with public participation last year. It has yielded rich dividends. 
 
 Funds were sanctioned for the lake in principle in July 2017. The project got final clearance in April. NMC had earlier sanctioned Rs 3.25 crore for rejuvenation of the lake.
 
 
