COIMBATORE: While it is commonly said art is therapeutic, a group of people from the city came together to try it out in real life on Sunday. Drawing inspiration from the self-portraits of Mexican painter Frida Kahlo, they painted their own portraits at a workshop conducted by the art enthusiast, Ruchi Bagrecha.

 Self-portraiture helps people confront their own fears and weaknesses and also serve as an outlet for it, says Bagrecha, 27. “At the workshop we ask people to focus on a memory or an incident that shook their life. Based on that, we ask them to write down their traits on a piece of paper, and then ask them to find symbols which represent those traits,” Bagrecha said.
 
 She said she got the idea for this style of painting from Mexican painter Frida Kahlo. “When she was in college, Kahlo met with an accident which damaged her pelvic bone. While she was bedridden, she started painting her own portraits which helped her recover faster. It was like a therapy for her,” Bagrecha said. 
 
 “Also she had a tumultuous married life with fellow Mexican painter  , in which she divorced him once and remarried him. She put all this in her self-portraits using various animals as symbols,” she added.
 
 Bagrecha said putting one’s fears and confusions on canvas helps one accept oneself. “I have been doing paintings since 2012. But once I started doing self-portraits, I felt I could accept myself completely,” she said.
 
 “Usually, we don’t take time to think about ourselves, so when we sit down to paint a self-portrait in this method, we will think more deeply about ourselves and come to terms with us,” said Bagrecha, a fashion designing graduate. 
 
 Hina Navin, a former copyrights and permissions executive, who participated in the workshop, said this method of depicting one’s inner workings on canvas helps one come to terms with one’s contradictions. “When I started writing down my traits, i saw there were many contradicting elements. Finding symbols for them and depicting them in a self-portrait was a wonderful experience,” she said. 
 
 
