THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Though Kerala has been upbeat about its high growth rate in GDP which consistently stood above the national average, the latest statistics of   paints a different picture. 

 The growth in the state economy now lags behind the national average, the   report, tabled in the assembly on Thursday, said.
 
 The GDP growth rate that continuously stood above the national average, began to show a declining trend from 2012-13, and it further slid to 8.59% in 2015-16, when the national average stood at 9.94%.
 
 The tax growth rate, which was 23.24% in 2010-11, fell to 10.68% in 2015-16. The distress felt in state economy also led to low buoyancy in revenue growth, the report tabled by T M   said.
 
 The review report also said the LDF government had assumed power with a precarious situation of net unpaid negative treasury cash balance of Rs 173.46 crore. The new government had to bear the brunt of huge magnitude of deferred liabilities of the previous government, amounting to around Rs 6,000 crore and non-budgeted short-term liabilities of Rs 4,300 crore.
 
 Another major factor that affected the economy of the state was the decreased inflow of foreign remittances. Activities in the state, particularly in the fields of trade, real estate and construction, weakened due to the decline in foreign remittances.
 
 Moreover, a deceleration of export demand combined with national trade policies resulted in a decline in the prices of plantation and related products, affecting adversely the traditional industries that had been the mainstay of the state's economy.
 
  
 
 
 The report was highly critical of demonetisation and its impact on the state economy. It said the macroeconomic problems of the state were exacerbated by the demonetisation policy. It also affected the purchasing power and economic activity in the state.
 
 Economic activities in sectors such as coir, handloom, agriculture and allied activities came almost to a standstill due to currency shortage. The cooperative sector was on the verge of a shutdown after demonetisation.
 
 During the post-demonetisation phase, the consumption demand became stagnant and investment was affected. A decline in the economic growth was an inevitable consequence of demonetisation, the report said.
 
 While detailing the after-effects of demonetisation, the report said it led to a fall in GSDP and revenues. The revenue-led fiscal consolidation policy was severely affected by unexpected policy of demonetisation.
 
 It further pointed out that the additional outgo consequent to the implementation of the 10th pay revision, clearance of huge amount of contingent liabilities left over by the previous government, disbursement of social security pensions with long-pending arrears also contributed to the dip in the state's fiscal indicators. 
 
 
