MUMBAI: The price of diesel has gone up by Rs 4.84 per litre over the last three months, while petrol has become costlier by Rs 5.34 during the same period thanks to the  . 

 Petrol which costed Rs 77.87 per litre on January 2, will be sold for Rs 81.61 on April 2(today). Similarly, diesel which was sold for Rs 63.43 per litre on January 2 will cost a motorist Rs 68.89 on Monday. 
 
 As part of the daily revision practice, the day’s price is announced the evening before. The hike may slowly lead to an increase in prices of vegetables, groceries and other essential items, traders fear, especially since diesel is the fuel used by the transport industry. 
  
 
 “Our transporters who are an integral part of our supply chain will increase the rates and so delivery charges will go up. This will, at the end of the year or so, reflect in food pricing,” said a senior member of Ahar, an association of over 8,000 bars and restaurants. Similarly, a vegetable trader at the Mumbai   said the small rises are absorbed by the supply chain but eventually there might be some difference that can result in the overall rise in price of vegetables and groceries. For instance, Sumit Bari, who owns Pooja Logistics in Goregaon, has increased freight rates by 10% beginning April. 
 
 “We transport plastic bottles and various types of powder. Diesel prices are a growing burden which we are forced to pass to our clients. If we demand 10% they will give us 7-8%. Of course they will in turn relay the increase to consumers.” 
 
 Over the last nine months,   has gone up by Rs 7.53 per litre and petrol by Rs 8.79 per litre. Consumers now describe daily revision as slow poisoning. 
 
 “Earlier, at least we could make out the rise but in this any major change becomes invisible,” said a consumer refilling his SUV at a petrol pump in south Mumbai. Kedar Chandak, a prominent petrol dealer, said that on average, the per barrel rate of crude had fallen to USD 65-70 now from USD 110 in 2014 but Indian consumers are still being charged the same rates or more than what they were charged then. 
 
 “This clearly means governments were not passing on the benefits to consumers and instead strengthening the government coffers," he said demanding introduction of GST for petrol to avoid tax on tax calculations. 
 
 The government may find it hard to deny this without inviting public ire ahead of crucial Karnataka polls as it looks to seek another mandate from the people early next year. On Sunday, West Bengal CM and Trinamool chief Mamata Banerjee lashed out at the Centre for high fuel prices. But reducing tax could upset the government’s maths when it has just announced a massive stimulus package to revive the economy.
 
