GURUGRAM: Repair work of broken roads across the city began with some areas along Old Delhi-Gurugram road, including   and Old Railway Road and other stretches. 

 Work on the remaining stretches will be completed over the next three months, said MCG commissioner Yashpal Yadav at a departmental meeting in Gurugram Clarifying the confusion regarding complaints lodged through the Harpath app, the commissioner said all road-related complaints falling under MCG’s jurisdiction will be immediately addressed. 
 
 This followed a social media outrage on the inefficiency of the app and its failure to address issues it was ostensibly developed for.
 
 “There was a lack of clarity on who would attend to these complaints, as there are multiple authorities, such as PWD, Huda and MCG, responsible for road repair work. Many people were writing to MCG for roads which aren’t under their jurisdiction. Hence, we have clarified we’ll only be attending to the ones under us,” said Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav.
 
 While the app is officially under the public works department, different government agencies, such as MCG and Huda, are supposed to address the complaints as per their jurisdiction. 
 
 It may be noted that MCG has recently completed a road repair project in sectors it has taken over from Huda. 
 
 Other issues discussed at the meeting included the multi- level car park and the proposed MCG office on the Old Delhi-Gurugram road.
 
 “We will focus on development works during fiscal year 2018-19, especially on the multi-level parking project, as the city is in dire need of parking spaces,” said Yadav. He added that MCG has enough funds for these projects and all they need is to scale up their engineering wing.
 
 The commissioner further said there will be constant efforts to strengthen the collaboration between the public and the corporation. A monitoring team will be set up in this regard, and the mayor and councillors will be made part of it.
 
 Mayor  , who was also a part of the meeting, said there was an urgent need for a multi-level car park in  , as the footfall in the area is extremely high. She also suggested two possible spots for the same. 
 
 
