We all know how important exercise is in the prevention and management of various diseases. Now, a recent study has concluded that exercise can reverse the damage to sedentary, aging hearts and help prevent risk of future heart failure - provided it's enough exercise and it's begun in time.

 Cardiologists at UT South-Western and Texas Health Resources conducted this study. To get the maximum benefit, exercise regimen should begin by late middle age (before 65 years), when the heart apparently retains some plasticity and ability to remodel itself. Results also conclude that exercise needs to be performed four to five times a week. As two to three times a week was not enough, according to an earlier study.
 
 Sedentary aging can lead to a stiffening of the muscle in the heart's left ventricle, the chamber that pumps oxygen-rich blood back out to the body. When the muscle stiffens, you get high pressure and the heart chamber doesn't fill as well with blood. In its most severe form, blood can back up into the lungs. That is when heart failure develops.
 
 Earlier research showed that left ventricular stiffening often shows up in middle age in people who don't exercise and aren't fit, leaving them with small, stiff chambers that can't pump blood as well. This study focused on if proper exercise can reverse these damages.
 
 Study participants were given three, 30-minute, moderate exercise sessions for the first 3 months and peaked at 10 months when two high-intensity aerobic intervals were added. Moderate and high intensity exercises are associated with significant increases in Natural Killer Cell Activities. After two years, those who had exercised showed an 18 percent improvement in their maximum oxygen intake during exercise and a more than 25 percent improvement in compliance, or elasticity, of the left ventricular muscle. They compared the change in the heart to a stretchy, new rubber band versus one that has gotten stiff sitting in a drawer. These exercises also improved the sleep pattern, fitness, emotional and behavioural responses.
 
 In conclusion, poor fitness in middle age is a strong predictor of future risk of heart failure and regular exercise should be given as much as importance as given to their personal hygiene - just like brushing your teeth and taking a shower.
 
 
 
 
 
