KOCHI: Following the motor vehicles department's crackdown on airhorn as part of their No-Horn Day initiative, the department will launch a campaign against bikes with modified silencers on June 1. They will now be suspending the registration certificate (RC) of these vehicles. 

 Deputy transport commissioner M P   said that last year, they caught over 900 bikes in Ernakulam with modified silencers.
 
 "There are over 1,000 bikes in Ernakulam that are operating with modified silencers. We had just been fining them but as part of the special initiative of the MVD, which aims at tackling noise pollution this year, we will now be suspending their RC under the provision of section 53 of the Motor Vehicles Act. The owner will not be allowed to ride the vehicle during the period of the suspension," said Ajithkumar.
 
 He said that suspensions will be for a minimum of three months and that the vehicle owners RC will not be reinstated till the  's silencer has been replaced.
 
 "There are many cases where we have made the owner change the silencer without making them pay the fine. Earlier in 2015, there were cases were bike stores were doing these modifications but it has stopped in Ernakulam. Still, these silencers are available in other states in Alappuzha and Kollam. None of the companies that are selling these modified silencers are authorized and are approved by the nodal agencies as per the Motor Vehicles Act," said Naufal A, motor vehicles inspector.
 
 He said that these modified silencers create a noise of 95 to 100 dB, louder than the sound of a bus horn, which is around 92 - 94 dB.
 
 "We conduct regular checks. When we catch someone, who has modified their silencers, we fine them Rs 500 and get them to change their silencer," said Ernakulam RTO Reji P Varghese.
 
 Dr Ranjini Raghavan, a senior ENT with Sunrise Hospital said, "What most bikers who modify their silencer do not understand is that they are ones that are being affected the most because they are constantly being exposed to the noise from their bike. The hearing loss from constant exposure to this kind is noises is gradual and people do not realize it until it is too late."
 
 
