CHANDIGARH: A day after The Times of India reported about the   upon roads, garages, and footpaths in  ,  , the municipal corporation has enforced the department Act and evicted the roadside vendors from their illegal stalls that had become the dens of miscreants.

 
 On May 29, TOI had reported how its team in the area had found two confectioners, four grocerrs, and three chemists encroaching upon the market corridor in front of their shops. two confectioners, four grocers, and three chemists had encroached upon the market corridors in front of their shops. The vendors started sitting along the market’s boundary more than a decade ago. The encroachment increased day by day, but there was hardly any check. “The anti-enforcement teams rarely stepped into Manimajra,” a resident complained to TOI. A few women from the neighbourhood said the miscreants turned aggressive if people objected to their comments.
 
  of the Modern Housing Complex resident welfare association (RWA) had said: “A few years ago, one of the vegetable vendors pitched a stall opposite our market and started going to the park to ease himself, so the RWA locked the park. This vendor then moved outside the market boundary and, at present, his stall is the biggest in the illegal market. Had the civic authorities acted long ago when he started grabbing the government land, the space would have been free of encroachment. To the left of the railway crossing, towards Modern Housing Complex, is a makeshift dhaba where drivers stop for food and cause traffic chaos.”
 
 Illegal venders had encroached upon the entire footpath from Gates 3 & 4 to the main market of the complex. This had created a traffic bottleneck and the vendor litter the road with leftovers and other waste.” Modern Housing Complex resident Y P   said that street vendors had encroached upon about 15 feet of footpath along a curve near Category-3 houses and turned the corner into a place notorious for accidents. Another point where accidents are common is near along with roadside attached to the boundary wall of Catogary-3 houses, where more illegal vendors sit and mix with bad elements.
 
 On Thursday, the enforcement department of the municipal corporation acted on these complaints and got the footpath cleared. Another action which the police department took was putting a temporary divider on road to the Manimajra railway crossing to avoid traffic jams. Whenever the gate opens after the passing of a train, there is traffic chaos at the site, which has become a routine at the point. Vehicles bang against each other long after the train is out of sight. Residents told TOI claim that the source of the problem lies in the absence of a divider near the railway crossing. On public request, police have been deployed outside the area’s schools in the afternoon.
 
