NEW DELHI: The   on Wednesday reserved its verdict on an appeal filed by cricketer-turned-politician   and his friend challenging their conviction and threeyear jail term awarded by the   and Haryana High Court in a 1988 road rage case in which one person died.

 A bench of Justices   and   will also deliver its verdict on a cross appeal filed by the victim’s family seeking enhancement of the jail term to them.
 
 
 On December 27, 1988, Sidhu and Rupinder Singh Sandhu got into an argument with one Gurnam Singh over parking space in Patiala. Sidhu and his fried had allegedly dragged Singh out of his car and dealt him a series of blows, causing his death. When Jaswinder Singh, who was with Gurnam Singh, tried to intervene, Sandhu also assaulted him.
 
 A sessions court acquitted Sidhu and Sandhu in 1999 but the order was quashed by the HC which convicted them with a three-year jail term in 2006. They approached the SC which had stayed their conviction.As the Supreme Court started final hearing, Sidhu, a minister in Punjab, and his friend contended that the victim died of heart attack and they could not be held guilty for it.
 
 The Congress-led state government also opposed Sidhu’s plea for acquittal in the case and contended that there was no error in the HC verdict. It said the findings of the HC that Gurnam Singh did not die due to cardiac failure, but due to injury on the temporal region was correct.
 
 The HC had convicted Sidhu and his friend on the basis of medical report of the deceased. A board of doctors had given its opinion attributing the cause of death of Gurnam Singh as head injury and cardiac condition.
 
 The cardiac condition of Gurnam Singh was very weak. In the opinion of one of the doctors, who was a prosecution witness, subdural haemorrhage was present over the left parietal region and brain, and this haemorrhage, and not a cardiac arrest, caused his death. The board had stated that the head injury itself could be sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature.
 
