AMARAVATI: AP chief minister Chandrababu Naidu hit back at YSR   chief   in the AP Assembly on Friday, hours after the latter pulled out his MPs from Lok Sabha. Clearly hinting that his MPs would not resign from the LS as is being demanded by the YSR Congress chief, Naidu told the House, “We have been elected by the people to address their issues. We will not run away. We will stand and fight,” he said, and made it clear that TDP will intensify its agitation in the coming days.

 Earlier on Friday morning, while taking out a short cycle rally to Amaravati, Naidu issued a stern warning to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the  .
 
 “People of the state have taught a lesson to the Congress. You too will meet a similar fate,” he said.
 
 By evening, it was Jagan’s turn to hit back at the AP CM. Addressing a press conference in Guntur, YSR Congress chief posed seven questions to Naidu and dared him to respond. According to Jagan, the   cabinet had in March 2014 approved special category status for AP and sent the proposal to the Planning Commission.
 
 “You came to power in June 2014 and the Planning Commission was in place till December that year. Why did you not meet the plan panel even once during that time and press for  . Did you not welcome the special package announced by   on September 8, 2016, and pass a resolution in the Assembly the next day hailing the package? Did you not fudge Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) figures to make it appear that AP was growing at a rate of 12 per cent? Did you not arrest people and leaders for holding protests seeking SCS? These were some questions that he posed to the TDP chief.
 
 Late in the evening, Naidu held a meeting with his core group and chalked out a plan of action for coming days.
 
 According to sources, all TDP MPs will return to the state in next two days and undertake a bus yatra to their constituencies. Naidu himself will tour all parts of the state and address public meetings. Details of the bus yatra plan and schedules of the public meetings to be addressed by Chandrababu Naidu and other TDP leaders are to be made public on Saturday.
 
