PANAJI: The Association of Friends of Astronomy (AFA) is appealing to people in the state to witness the rare ‘Snow blue super rising copper total lunar eclipse’ on the evening of January 31.

 It is an occurrence that last occurred in 1999 and will appear again only on January 31, 2037. 
 
 The phenomenon be visible between 4.21pm and 9.38pm on January 31 this year. 
 
 In Goa, the first contact of the eclipse will occur at 4.21pm, when the moon touches the penumbral shadow of the Earth. The second contact will happen at 5.18pm, when the moon touches the umbra of the Earth. The third contact will happen at 6.21pm. Maximum eclipse will occur at 6.59pm. 
 
 The fourth contact will take place at 7.37pm, when the moon leaves the umbra. The last contact will happen at 9.38pm, when the moon is released from the penumbra of the Earth, signalling the end of the total lunar eclipse. 
 
 Not only will the moon be in direct alignment with the Sun and at the closest point to the Earth, but it will also coincide with a total eclipse. The next total eclipse will occur on July 27 this year. A total lunar eclipse takes place when the moon passes completely through the Earth’s shadow. During such an eclipse, the moon gradually gets darker and then takes on a dusty or blood-red colour. 
 
 Although the eclipse will be visible throughout most of western  , eastern Asia and Australia, the best view will be from the  . 
 
 Incidentally, January and March 2018 have the distinction of having two full moon periods each, while February doesn’t have a single full moon episode.
 
 “It is also very rare to have three consecutive full moons in the astronomical winter season that are in the super phase,” AFA president Satish   told reporters recently. The last two such phenomenon occurred on December 3 and January 1.
 
 “I appeal to people to keep all superstitions aside and enjoy the spectacle. There is no significant sea rise expected and nothing to worry about, except if it coincides with another cyclone,” Naik said.
 
 
