Chandigarh: The motor accident claims tribunal awarded compensation of more than Rs 57   to the family of the deceased, who died in a motor vehicular accident.

 Twenty-nine-year-old Avtar Singh, a resident of Kharar died allegedly in a motor vehicular accident, following which his 64-year-old mother Pritam Kaur and 27-year-old widow Amandeep Kaur, claiming themselves to be his only legal heirs, moved the tribunal and filed an application to claim a compensation of Rs 70 lakh.
 
 It was stated in the application that the deceased was 29-year-old and was working as reinforcing fitter and light duty driver with M/s AL Rakha General Cont. LLC, Dubai, United Arab Emirates and was drawing a salary of 1800 AED (Arab Emirates Dirham) per month, which amounts to Rs 31,644/- in Indian currency.
 
 It was stated that on May 7, 2017, when Avtar Singh was returning home in Radiala village on a motorcycle after attending a marriage function in Kharar. It was mentioned that Avtar Singh was driving the motorcycle at moderate speed and was being followed by his brother Amarjit Singh on a separate motorcycle, who met Avtar Singh at Kharar bus stand and both were proceeding towards their home. Around 10.30pm, they reached opposite the medicine factory area of Khanpur village on Kharar-Kurali road, when Mahindra Quanto car driven by Ajay Kumar came at a high speed and hit Avtar’s motorcycle. As a result, Avtar along with the motorcycle fell on the road. Avtar sustained a head injury and multiple injuries to other parts of his body. He was taken to the civil hospital, Kharar, from where he was referred to PGI, Chandigarh, where he succumbed to injuries the next day. It was stated that the accident had taken place due to rash and negligent driving of Ajay Kumar, who fled from the spot along with the offending vehicle after the accident.
 
 After the arguments, the tribunal directed the driver and the owner of the vehicle along with the insurance firm National Insurance Company Ltd to jointly pay a compensation of Rs 57,30,010 to Avtar’s family.
 
 
