PUNE: A resident of   in   has been convicted and sentenced by a sessions court here to 10 years rigorous imprisonment for repeatedly raping a 19-year-old physically challenged girl between March and June 2013. A medical expert, who had examined the survivor, also testified during the trial that she was suffering from mild mental retardation. 

 Additional sessions judge RV Adone sentenced the accused, Deepak Shankar   (46), to 10 years rigorous jail for the offence punishable under Section 376 (2), which refers to repeated rape on a woman, of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The court also sentenced Gawali to three years and one year rigorous jail for the offences of kidnapping and criminal intimidation. The sentences are to run concurrently with the main sentence.
 
 According to the case put up by additional public prosecutor,  , the survivor and the accused resided in the same area and the girl knew the accused since childhood. The girl had studied up to Std IV in a school for the disabled at her native place in   district and was helping her mother with domestic maid works to earn a living. 
 
 Between March 15, 2013, and June 6, 2013, the accused took advantage on some occasions when the girl’s parents were away from their home and took her to an isolated place at Kalewadi bridge on the banks of Pavana river on the pretext of helping her secure work. He forced the girl into a sexual relationship on all these occasions and threatened her with dire consequences if she spoke about the incident to anybody. The girl’s family learnt about the incident only when they found out that she was in possession of Rs2,000 cash and asked her about the source. The girl then narrated the entire incident and an FIR was lodged with the Chinchwad police. 
 
 Pathak examined 14 witnesses in support of the prosecution’s case while the accused had taken a defence of total denial, arguing, among other things, that there was no evidence (certificate) to show that the girl suffered from minor mental retardation; there was delay in lodging of FIR; and that the physical relationship was consensual. An assistant professor in forensic science had carried out various tests on the girl to assess her intelligence quotient and had opined in his deposition before the court that she was suffering from mild mental retardation. However, the expert had not issued a certificate to this effect, the accused argued. 
 
 Judge Adone dismissed these arguments and observed, “No doubt there is no certificate issued by a psychiatrist about mental disability of victim. But this court is not dealing with application for reception order under   Act. Further, the witness (assistant professor) is an expert witness. He is independent and not concerned with the victim. He has no reason to support the victim for false implication of accused and he and accused are not on inimical terms.” The court held that the delay in registration of FIR was not fatal to the case considering the overall circumstance that led to the registration of the case. 
 
 
