It’s been already five months since Pramod Swain was evicted from   and his   was handed over to its new owners. However, the new place — known as Purushottom canteen — still doesn’t have many takers. But despite the majority of students boycotting the new canteen, authorities are hopeful the situation will improve once the current batch graduates and the institute has a new set of pupils. 
 
 Despite widespread backlash and agitation by students,   University had finally floated the tender for Pramodda’s canteen in October last year. This further triggered a series of protests by both former and current students. After the tender was finally awarded to a new owner, the students’ union decided to boycott the canteen till   was reinstated as the owner.
 
 The situation now
 Around noon on Monday, the scenes at the two canteens — 9 to 9 and Purushottam — were starkly different. While the former was brimming with students having lunch or adda, the latter was nearly empty. The deserted canteen, the walls of which have been cleared of all the graffiti and posters demanding Pramodda’s return, had employees sitting idle on the counter. “The movement started by the union a few months ago is still going strong and this is how things will look in future too,” said a student. Prantik Basu, another student, said that most of them avoid going to the canteen because of the series of memories associated with it. “The students have wholeheartedly accepted the union’s decision,” he added.
 
 
 
  
 
 Not so grim
 If the workers at Purushottom canteen are to be believed, the situation is not that bad. They said that even though their sales are less than other canteens, things are looking up gradually. “In the initial two months, we didn’t have a single student here. But with time, some have started coming over,” said an employee. Biswajit Roy, the co-owner, also claimed that the situation is better and the flow of students to his canteen is gradually increasing. 
 
 
 Desperate measures
 Even though Purushottam canteen is never crowded, students have indeed started showing up. There are two reasons for that. First, the cost of food here is lower than other canteens. So, many students, especially those belonging to a humble background, prefer it. “What other canteens are selling for `50, we get it for `40 here. At the end of the month, it makes a big difference,” said a student from maths department. Second, it is easier to find a seat at Purushottom, as most students are boycotting it. “During lunch break it is very difficult to find a table at 9 to 9. But this place remains empty. So, I come here frequently,” said a physics student. 
 However, despite cheaper food and zero waiting time, no one likes to spend extra time at Purushottom. Students leave the place as soon as they are done eating, unlike other canteens where they indulge in endless adda sessions. “We come here just because it’s cheap and saves us time. For all other things, we go elsewhere,” said 
 a student. 
 
 
 Not losing hope
 The owners at Purushottom hope that things will surely improve in the coming months. Meanwhile, university authorities are equally hopeful. “Pramodda’s removal created a huge furore. But I think, with time, things will get better. Not all students are boycotting the canteen or agitating. The situation will improve once the current students graduate and leave the institute,” said a professor. 
 When asked about his opinion on the ongoing situation, Pramodda said he had no issues with the new canteen or its owners. “My removal was not right and I still condemn that. It is up to the students to decide where they want to eat or spend time on campus. Besides that I have nothing to say,” 
 he added.
 
 
