Compact living created the need for retractable furniture, trumping style for functionality. Small spaces make a case for low-impact living. Home designers say if there’s a trend that’s here to stay – it’s downsizing. The furniture of the future are pieces that support our way of living rather than merely adding appeal, says Anita Dhariwal, an interior designer from Pune. Her take: “To suit the changing needs of home owners, we are creating works that merge dining, lounge, TV stations and the works in the same room.” The idea? Maximise space use.

 Dine-in
 If you aren’t able to fit a big dining table, functional furniture is your saviour. “Opt for a table that swivels under the counter. It’s a fast, stylish solution if you need seating for guests or want an extra counter,” Dhariwal says. Quick tip: Extendable dining tables utilise the space well and can be adjusted when not in use.
 
 Tables Turned
 There are tables that come fitted to be both functional and aesthetic, providing hidden storage to tidy up clutter without compromising on style. “For the living room table, why not use a motorised system to adjust its height, making it adaptable to changes,” asks Rohit Dhawan, founder of an interior solution store in Mumbai. His advice? A desk that doubles as a coffee table or work station. Quick tip: Lift-top coffee tables are a convenient work or dining surface. For a work desk, opt for a broad range of height options – from a sitting to standing desk.
 
 Chair-up
 No space for an upholstered lounge chair? Invest in a slipper chair (a compact chair with short legs, an armless body, and a high back), says Anuja Menon, a Delhi-based home designer, who calls them “ultimate multitaskers”.
 
 Beds and more
 Retractable beds make sense for people in small apartments. The up-down bed helps save space within your bedroom. “During the day, the bed can be lifted to make space for shelves and dressers. When you are tired, fold out the furniture and bring down the bed,” Menon suggests. A lift bed can change your bedroom to a living room with a click.
 
 What’s cooking?
 Modern kitchen designs feature contemporary stands for smartphones, additional storage spaces which not only save space but are also high tech.
 
 Why retractable?
 Modular pieces are designed in a way that are easy to move and customise according to space –think expandable tables, sectional pieces, stackable chairs, storage beds.
 
 Go green!
 No room for a garden? Worry not! Get yourself a wall planter that provides plenty of greenery, without taking up any counter or floor space. Utilise an empty wall for this vertical garden.
