Surat: A team from Centre is in the city to inspect documents and facilities connected with sanitation to judge its place under the cleanliness index developed for the country. Surat, which stood fourth in last year’s ‘Swachh Survekshan’ hopes to break into first three this time as SMC spends nearly Rs 150 crore every year to keep the city clean. Dr Saurabh Chakraborty, senior assessor of Karvy Consultancy, which has been appointed by the government of India to conduct inspection in the city, and his colleague Jawahar Sharma inspected more than 10,000 pages of documentation prepared by Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) for the same.  Cleanliness in residential, commercial, industrial and public areas; segregation of waste and garbage at source, daily cleaning and brushing, proper prescribed facilities of public pay and use toilets; solid waste management; plants to convert organic waste into manure; facilities to dispose of inorganic waste; proper sanitation and hygiene facilities are some of the cleanliness parameters that the two-member team is checking.  “Documentation and actual existence of these facilities have 1,400 marks out of a total of 4,000. Further, 1,200 marks are allotted after physical inspection under Swachh Survekshan,” an SMC officer said.  An officer of ministry of urban development Aditi Sharma would arrive in the city on Tuesday to inspect the facilities along with different apps launched by SMC.  A third team would arrive in the city after a few days to look at citizen feedback and this carries 1,400 marks under Swachh Survekshan.  Municipal commissioner M Thennarasan told TOI, “We have upgraded all our facilities as required under the parameters of Swachh Survekshan and hope to do much better this time than last year.”  SMC pitches for separate category for bigger cities  HimansshuBhatt Surat: There is ample scope for manipulation during Swachh Survekshan once the views of the citizens have been obtained. There is an uneven spread with respect to the population of cities under the present system of Swachh Survekshan. This is why some people feel that there should be a separate category for cities with population of more than 2.5 million to arrive at right conclusions with regard to cleanliness.  “It is unfair to compare a city of 2 lakh with one that has 50 lakh population. It would be better if all cities above 2.5 million population are put in one category and judged,” an SMC officer said.  “To meet all the parameters of Swachh Survekshan, a city would need adequate funds. Surat has been spending nearly Rs 150 crore on cleanliness and still is not getting the recognition it deserves,” another civic official added.  Surat used to spend nearly Rs 36 crore on lifting door-to-door garbage and night cleaning and brushing six years ago. Today, this exercise incurs an expense of over Rs 80 crore. This is why it is not right to put on same pedestal a city spending Rs 150 crore and another just Rs 10 crore in a year on cleanliness, the SMC officer said. Municipal commissioner M Thennarasan said, “It is difficult to judge two cities having an unequal population. We wish the central government creates separate categories to do justice to all.” 