

 The months of summer are inevitable, unfortunately for us. After a winter of bliss, it will be time to brace for the some of the most testing weeks of the year. Water shortage, the curse of almost all urbanised 21st Century cities, will be the biggest challenge for Pune. 
 
 But are we ready to meet this challenge head-on, despite years of "save water" campaigns and appeals by citizen groups? No, we are not. 
 
 Water is the first Domino tile. Its shortage increases the prices of vegetables; discourages economic growth; hurts agriculture; troubles commodity markets; and finally leads to deaths of our beloved farmers. Nothing is more indispensable than fresh water today. 
 
 But catchment levels come with no guarantees. We must prepare for the summer like a student prepares for the Class 10 exams - diligently and proactively. 
 
 It's then time to start monitoring household consumption. Let us all stop washing our cars twice a week. Let's even start cutting that daily shower by a few minutes. Let us start diverting dishwater for the plants and let us start talking to kids about the scorch that is to come. 
 
 Meanwhile, civic bodies must start fixing those leaks in the pipes. Pune has had a notorious history of pipe leakages and a few seals in the right places should help thousands get through the summer with sufficient water. Instead of focusing on 24x7 water - an almost impossible demand from both nature and infrastructure - let us make sure we monitor water use 24x7. It will take vigilance and wisdom to get us through the dry months - not knee-jerk policymaking. 
 
 More importantly, let us start taking an active part in government programmes aimed at saving water. They may not be perfect, but their hearts are in the right place. 
 
 The   aims to make   a drought-free state by 2019. The key aim of this program is to establish belief in a farmer that "every drop of rainwater is owned by me and it should percolate in my land". It plans to make 5,000 villages drought-free within the next two years. But it will need our help. 
 
 As a species, our first responsibility is to leave behind a healthy planet for the next generation. Unless, we focus on the conservation of water, Earth, according to experts, has but a few decades as a hospitable rock. 
 
 Pune has seen better days. But we could save it from destruction by preparing for the some of the worst of days. 
 
 
 
 
