Despite overcoming challenges to become the world   champion five times or juggling boxing with her responsibilities as a Parliamentarian,   hasn’t found anything as daunting as explaining to her 10-year-old twins why they should not punch anyone in their class when they see their mom doing the same in the boxing ring. After the world champion bagged another laurel, a gold at the  , we recently met her and her three sons at her Khan Market home. Excerpts: 

 
 
 The boxer tells us that her three sons have now learnt to adjust to her busy schedule and do not even disturb her when she is working out or training. "My children understand that their mother is a   and while I am training or working out, they do not disturb me. They instead go to their dad if they want anything. But my twins are very difficult to handle at times. They have my blood, and are equally aggressive (laughs). When they started going to their new school in Delhi, the first two days they got into a fight with their classmate. I had to explain that they should not do this, else people will say that ‘your mom is a boxer, that is why you are like this.’ Now, they just fight with each other at home!" She adds that her children have now started attending her tournaments and get excited to see their mother in the boxing ring. 
 "They have started coming to my matches to cheer, and that is special," she says, but adds that boxing is not something that really interests her children. "They are more interested in football, like their father," she shares.
 
  
  Champion on the move!
 
 
 
 Everyone knows the challenges Mary had to face since the beginning to pursue her passion for boxing. She says that now, she shares her story with young female boxers to encourage them. "Since my childhood, I was very passionate about boxing. But in my village, women were never encouraged to pursue a career in sports. There were financial reasons. My family never encouraged me for boxing, and told me that I can take up any sport, but not boxing, because if I got injured, the treatment would be very expensive. They would tell me that they had seen boxing matches on TV and boxers getting bruises, and they were really scared. I explained to them about the rules and regulations of the game and managed to convince them after a very long time," she says.
 However, Mary says that she has seen a huge change in the last 10 years. "After I won championships, and made my country proud, I have met many parents who want their girls to become boxers. There are parents today who rate a girl’s achievements above her looks. They know that sports are not about getting fame and money, they are about making the country proud. In the last 10 years, many young girls have taken up boxing, and I have met many talented female boxers from places like Haryana, Delhi, Manipur and Assam," she says. 
 She adds that she always tells young female boxers that there is no substitute for hard work and nothing can knock you down if you are determined to achieve your goal. "No matter what came my way, I always focussed on my training. When I meet young players, I tell them that you must be very disciplined, always take your training seriously and pay attention to what your coach tells you. Hard work, determination, dedication and will power should always be there. I tell them that though I am married, have children and lots of responsibilities as a Parliamentarian, I am still working hard to achieve what I want, and if I can, so can they," she says.
 Mary feels that even if girls are not interested in boxing, they should learn martial arts or boxing for self-defence. "I can’t say if boxing should be made mandatory in schools for girls as part of self-defence training, but I think girls should know martial arts or boxing. It will give them confidence and they will be able to defend themselves if anyone misbehaves with them," she says.
 
  
  Mary Kom with her twins, Khupneivar and Rechungvar, and her youngest, Prince Chungthanglen (in her arms), at her Khan Market residence
 
 
 
 Ever since the   was nominated as a   MP, she has been juggling training sessions, tournaments and her responsibilities as a Parliamentarian. "All this has not been easy at all and there is a lot of stress," she says, adding that though celebs (be it from the field of films or sports) are often judged harshly for their low attendance during sessions, she has never had to face that. "If not 100% attendance, I try to keep it at 70%. I am still learning about being a Parliamentarian. I am glad that I got this opportunity and I can now raise issues about sports or issues that my state is facing," she says. 
 Mary says that despite her hectic schedule, she has never missed her training. "I might not have time to spend with my family, and sometimes my children complain, but I never miss my training. I always spend 40 minutes in the morning on my training and workout even while I am at home. In all these years I have achieved a certain fitness level and I believe that as long as I am fit, no one can beat me easily," says Mary. 
 About whether she will take up politics actively in the future, she says, "I can never be in politics. I am very straightforward and can’t lie – and one has to lie (even if it is occasionally) to be in politics. Moreover, boxing is my passion. I was born for boxing and I will die for boxing, I am not going to stop easily. I might think of retirement some day, but that day is not going to come soon. The next target is the upcoming Commonwealth Games and I am preparing to get gold for the nation." 
 
 
  
 
