BENGALURU: Sudershan K S is on top of the world. Clinching the first rank in   is a dream come true for the Banashankari boy, who shares the spot with Yashas M S from  .

 “I was expecting around 617 marks but am exhilarated at having racked up the perfect score of 625. I bagged five centums, but didn’t expect 100 in science and maths,” said Sudershan, whose joy knew no bounds on Monday. 
 
 Celebrations began at his residence on 8th Main, Ashok Nagar in Banashankari, after the results were declared. “Though I didn’t expect him to be the state topper, I’m extremely proud of him,” said Sudershan’s mother Manjula KS, who was surprised and elated in equal measure. His relatives said the boy has always been an all-rounder.
 
 Although he doesn’t have a long-term goal, he wants to pursue science, said Sudershan, a student of Holy Child English School. “I didn’t take tuitions but always studied what was taught in school on the same day. I never counted how many hours I slogged for and I sat for as long as it took me to be confident about the topic,” he added. Sudershan, who’s a volleyball player, likes to unwind by cooking and watching films.
 
 Even Yashas M S, the other Karnataka topper, shares Sudershan’s interest in science. A student of Sadvidya High School in Mysuru, Yashas said his ambition is to pursue aeronautical engineering from one of the elite institutions of India. “I didn’t study according to a timetable. However, concentration was what worked for me,” said Yashas, who is also a sports enthusiast. 
 
 Srihari Adiga BS from Sri Saraswathi Vidya Mandir High School in south Bengaluru, secured 624 out of 625 and is among the eight students who have bagged the second rank. “This is unexpected as I hoped to get around 615. I am planning to study science in PU at R V School and I have already applied for coaching at Deeksha Centre for Learning,” he said. His father Sripad said they encouraged him to follow his passion.
 
 Lakshmi Y L, principal of his school, said, “I’m proud of my students and school. Srihari has been a consistent student throughout, maintaining the right balance between academics and extracurricular activities.”
 
 Other second-rank holders include Aditi Ashok Rao and R Keerthana, students of Sadvidya, and Shivani M Bhat from Marimallappa High School in Mysuru. While Aditi wants to pursue medicine, Keerthana, who calls former President APJ Abdul Kalam her idol, has set her sights on engineering. “My aim is to crack NEET. Disciplined study is the secret to my success,” said Aditi. “This is the happiest moment of my life,” said Keerthana.
 
 Like Aditi, Shivani too attributed her success to a rigorous study schedule. “For us, classes started in April. Every day, I would go through all lessons taught in school,” said Shivani, who’s yet to decide on her future, though she’s certain of pursuing science in pre-university. 
 
 -Diya Kurien
 
 Farmer’s son among top scorers
 
 Kolar: A farmer’s son, he used to study for seven to eight hours a day. The hard work has fetched results — Lakshmipathi Reddy B S has secured 623 out of 625 in SSLC exams. 
 
 A student of Sri Sapthagiri Vidyalaya in Gownipalli, he belongs to Byraganapalli, a remote village in Srinivasapuru taluk. His father Suresh Babu owns about three acres of land and has studied up to SSLC. So has his mother Kamalamma.
 
 Lakshmipathi said barring school notes and classroom lessons, he didn’t bank on anything else. He aims to be a doctor. The boy has secured centums in all subjects except English, where he has scored 98, said Shamsunissa, Block Education officer, Srinivasapuru.
 
 
