CHENNAI: Belying the hype surrounding the decade-old 'illegal telephone lines' case against former Union minister   and his elder brother  , a special court for CBI cases here on Wednesday discharged the two saying the investigating agency had failed to prove the charges against them. 

 The CBI has not produced sufficient material to establish allegations against   that he got the alleged phone connections with malafide intention to use them for Sun TV, special judge Natarajan said, adding that the CBI had not offered a proper reply on why the CD containing call records of the alleged phone connections was not furnished to the court.
 
 The special judge also discharged five other accused, including former BSNL officials K Brahmnathan and M P Velusamy, noting that there was no prima facie evidence to prove the charges levelled against them. 
 
 As for Kalanithi Maran, the judge said he could not be made vicariously liable for the alleged offences for the only reason that he was chairperson of  . "CBI has not arraigned Sun TV. They have not produced any evidence to show that the charges against Kalanithi are maintainable. Therefore, it is the view of the court that all the charges against Kalanithi are not maintainable." 
 
 The charge against the Marans and others was that during the period from June 2004 to December 2006, when he was Union minister for communications and information technology, Dayanidhi Maran had been provided 764 telephone lines and high-speed data lines, and that they were misused for Sun TV’s commercial purposes. It was CBI’s charge that a loss of 1.78 crore had been caused to the exchequer.
 
 Acceding to the submissions of the Marans that the charges had been foisted by the agency due to lack of basic technical understanding by the CBI officials, the special judge said that since Sun TV had not been made an accused by the CBI, the charges against the employees of the channel – chief technical officer Kannan and Ravi, an electrician — were also not maintainable. Holding that there was no sufficient material to frame charges against any of the accused, the judge allowed the discharge applications and discharged all of them from the case.
 
 In October last, when the court was about to frame charges against the Maran brothers and five other accused, they moved discharge petitions seeking to relieve them from the case. The CBI opposed the discharge pleas contending that it had filed a charge-sheet against the Maran brothers and the other accused only after thorough investigation, and that all the charges framed against them were supported with material and documentary evidence.
 
 CBI said it will seek legal opinion to file an appeal against the decision.
 
 
 
