JAIPUR: Qaidi No. 106   Khan may have skipped dinner on Thursday and breakfast on Friday morning, but he did not miss his workout. According to Jodhpur central jail authorities, Salman did crunches, push-ups, skipping, jumping and other exercises in his Ward No. 2 for at least three hours in the evening.

 He was restless late on Thursday evening. When a senior jail official asked if he required anything, especially a doctor, Salman politely declined and lay down on the floor on a mat.
 
 “He went to sleep at 12 am, got up for a few minutes at 6.30 am when the jail’s siren went off. He slept again and got up at 8.30 am,” said deputy DIG  , the jail superintendent of the Jodhpur central jail.
 
 The jail staff offered him porridge and gram for breakfast which he declined. He asked if he could buy something from the jail canteen. “He wanted a glass of milk and some bread. These were given to him,” Singh added.
 
 At 9.45 am, Salman was once again seen restless and walking inside his ward. “He must have been thinking about his bail application. At 11.30 am, he was informed that the court would decide on his bail application on Saturday. He skipped lunch,” said Singh.
 
 At 12.10 am, Preity Zinta arrived at the jail. She was not allowed close to Salman. “She spoke with him for almost 20 minutes. At one point, he even smiled,” said a senior jail official.
 
 Later, Salman’s sisters came at 2.10 pm and were allowed to meet him as per jail norms. But, to the surprise of many, including jail guards and others, the star began his workout at 3.30 pm in the scorching heat and continued till 6.30 pm.
 
 “His workout lasted almost three hours. He did push-ups, crunches and skipping without a rope,” Singh said.
 
 The staff brought dinner, which included ‘kakadi tamatar ki sabzi’, ‘daal’ and ‘chapaati’, to his ward at 7.30 pm.
 
 “He has been given extra security. So, unlike a normal prisoner, he cannot come out for dinner. His dinner was given inside his ward,” said a jail officer.
 
 In the evening, he wanted a bath and had it in his ward. “He is a rough and tough man. He is drinking water provided to every prisoner,” said a jail authority.
 
 However, Salman   failed to speak to his parents. “Every prisoner is allowed to speak to two people through STD. On his arrival, he had given the numbers of his father, Salim Khan, and mother, Sushila. He attempted to call them but couldn’t get through. He may try again on Staurday,” said Singh.
 
 Refuting news reports that Salman spoke to fellow jail inmate Asaram Bapu, Singh said, “Both of them are high profile prisoners. They will not be allowed to do that. Salman was confined to his ward,” he added.
 
 
