NEW DELHI: Publicising the success stories of government schemes in   (LWE)-hit areas while subtly highlighting how   violence was preventing tribals from taking advantage of the schemes shall be a key element of the Centre’s new media plan for the next three years to counter the Maoists’ false propaganda against the government and security forces.

 According to the guidelines for media plan (advertisement and publicity) approved for LWE-hit states under the ‘modernisation of police forces’ scheme, the messaging should highlight   as “failed and flawed” and one that curtails freedom. The campaigns — which should use local dialects and media popular with tribals such as drama, dance and music — must be subtle, so as not to “look like government propaganda”, and delivered, to the extent possible, by local role models.
 
 Put out by the home ministry, the guidelines underline how Maoists have been misguiding and “luring innocent tribals/local population... by their so-called poorfriendly revolution through petty incentives or by following coercive strategy”.
 
 The main objectives of the media plan include spreading awareness regarding developmental and welfare initiatives of the government in LWE-affected areas, building confidence among people towards the democratic setup, weaning away youth from violence; inspiring LWE cadres to surrender, highlighting atrocities by Maoists and exposing tribal youths to technological advancement. Apart from tribals, landless and other vulnerable sections living in remote areas of LWE-hit districts, the plan also seeks to address opinion-makers, government officials and security personnel at appropriate levels. Projects approved under the plan will be fully funded by the Centre. The implementing agencies include AIR, DD, DAVP and  .
 
 The messaging, the guidelines say, needs to highlight that Maoists believe in mindless violence against people inimical to them. At the same time, it must be conveyed that the government is committed to the welfare of its citizens by highlighting cases of tribals benefiting from government schemes.
 
