Nipah   (NiV) is a new disease that can be transmitted from animals to humans. The virus may spread due to direct contact with infected pigs, bats or from other infected people. As there is no vaccine for this virus yet, people should take proper precautions to avoid this disease. Some of the frequently asked questions are addressed here by Dr Shiva Kumar R – Senior Consultant Neurologist and Epileptologist – and Dr Jyothsna Krishnappa – Senior Consultant, Internal Medicine.

  
 
 
  The infected person goes through myocarditis and encephalitis (inflammation of the brain and heart muscle) and it may turn fatal.
 
  
 
 
  The symptoms of a Nipah virus infection are similar to those associated with common flu and influenza – including fever and muscle ache. Some cases may also involve brain inflammation. At the moment, there’s no specific treatment for the disease, so health care professionals can only try to manage the fever and neurological symptoms.
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  Serologic tests of paired sera during the acute and convalescent stages can be used for diagnosis. Real-time PCR of the throat and nasal swabs, blood, urine, and CSF can also be done. Immunohistochemistry of the brain tissue can be done in fatal cases.
 
  
 
 
  People in affected places should avoid eating or drinking date palm sap (raw date palm sap, a sweet drink popular in the winter, when the sap is easy to tap from trees pierced with a spigot. A bat clings to a palm tree as it eats sap just above a collection jar). The disease can be prevented by avoiding animals that are known to be infected and using appropriate personal protective equipment devices.
 
  
 Currently, no drug treatment has been proven to be effective in treating Nipah virus infection. Health care providers offer supportive therapy (i.e., rest, fluid intake) to help manage symptoms. Currently, early treatment with the antiviral drug, ribavirin, can reduce the duration of fever and the severity of the disease. However, how well this treatment cures the disease or improves survival is still uncertain.
 
  
 
 
  In view of frequent travel and floating population in the city we maybe more vulnerable to the virus.
 
  
 
 
  As person-to-person transmission can occur. One should be cautious when he/she comes in contact with an infected person. Avoid eating fruits fallen on the ground and drinking raw date palm sap. Avoid coming in contact with sick domestic animals, particularly pigs.
 
 
 
 
 
 
