CHANDIGARH: Murthal, the parantha hub on National Highway 1 that links Delhi with Punjab, is facing action over anomalies in land use and regularization by its dhabas. The   has served notices to all the 53 dhabas in the village, on both the sides of the highway, including some very popular ones.

 The dhabas could be sealed by the municipal corporation or even demolished if their paperwork is not found to be in order. Murthal village, which is beyond   and on the way to  , is home to popular dhabas that attract customers from Delhi NCR, which is just over 50 km away. It also is a popular halting point for travelers to and from Delhi, Chandigarh, Punjab, Haryana and  .
 
 
 The 53 Murthal dhabas are among 153 dhabas across the Sonipat district that have been served notices on land use anomalies. The remaining 100 dhabas are being examined by Haryana’s town and country planning department, local officials said. The Murthal dhabas fall under the municipal limits of Sonipat. The local officials started verifying the land use of dhabas along the highway and in the district after the Sonipat civic body was set up in June 2016.
 
 The notices to the dhabas, issued under Section 350 of the Haryana Municipal Act, were served from October 26 till December-end and the owners were asked to provide all the documents related to their building plans and the change of land use (CLU) permissions taken from the state’s town and country planning department.
 
 The officials first conducted surveys of the sites and video graphed them. They then procured details of land use from the revenue department. Following this, they also collected land use details from the town and country planning department.
 
 “They have been given time of 60 days to provide documents and all the related information. All the submitted documents are subject to verification. After verification, any further action will be taken,” Sonipat municipal commissioner Sushil Malik said. With 60-day deadline having already passed for the eateries which were served notices from October 26, the civic body is all set for action — including sealing of errant buildings or demolition of structures.
 
 When contacted,  , the president of the   confirmed all the eateries had been served notices. “Most of us are covered by the policies introduced by the Government of Haryana from time to time till 2012. Some of the dhaba owners have already submitted the documents and some are in the process of submission,” he said.
 
 
