MUMBAI: A day after a 53-year-old shopowner died in an alleged case of   at Dahisar, his provisional post-mortem report has mentioned his cause of death as ‘asphyxia due to choking’.  , the deceased, had thrown up at the police station before he was rushed to hospital and was declared dead early on Monday. Investigators believe the act of vomiting may have caused him to choke. They are now probing what caused him to throw up. 

 Shetty, a bachelor, lived with his sister and her family in Borivli (E) and ran a paan-beedi shop in Vile Parle (W). 
 
 On Monday, around 12.30am, Shetty and his friends were in an   when a scooter brushed the vehicle at Dahisar check-naka. The police claimed that the scooterist and pillion rider manhandled Shetty and his friends. A police patrolling van brought both groups to Dahisar police station where Shetty started to feel uneasy and vomited. He was pronounced dead when taken to a hospital. Footage from CCTV cameras inside the police station are being examined.
 
 After doctors at the Borivli post-mortem centre refused to conduct an autopsy, Shetty’s body was taken to the state-run JJ Hospital. An autopsy was conducted from 10pm to 11pm and was videographed. The report though stated that the findings are not final. Viscera and tissue have been preserved. Chemical analysis and histopathology examination will be conducted at the state forensic science laboratory. 
 
 The two accused arrested on murder charges—Mira Road residents Sahil Arora (20) and Bhushan Bansode (21)—were remanded to police custody till June 1 by a magistrate’s court on Tuesday. The public prosecutor told the court that the police wanted to investigate if Arora and Bansode may have known Shetty. They will also probe if Arora and Bansode had acted on the behest of any of their associates.
 
 Apart from a minor injury mark on his forehead, Shetty’s body did not have any external injuries. 
 
 TOI tracked down a key eyewitness from the crime scene who said that Shetty and the two youths on the scooter had a verbal altercation, but there was no scuffle. “I was travelling on the same road with my relative. We noticed a scooter brush the auto. The auto driver and the duo on the scooter had an argument. Shetty and his friends also got off. The stretch was crowded, but we did not notice any physical fight. A police patrolling van hauled all of them to the police station as they were arguing and abusing,” the eyewitness told TOI, requesting anonymity.
 
 
