BHOPAL: Five   seats are up for grabs in Madhya Pradesh. Depending on their strength in the assembly, BJP can elect four MPs to the   next week,   can bag only one seat.

 Two-term Rajya Sabha MP Satyavrat Chaturvedi’s term is ending and state Congress office still has no clue who could be selected by the party high-command. Sources in the state Congress said that  , known to be close to Guna MP Jyotiraditya Scindia, wants a third term in the Upper House. Before going to the Rajya Sabha for his first term in April 2006, Chaturvedi had won the Lok Sabha seat from Chattarpur in 1999.
 
 So far, he has spent 17 years in Parliament. With 12 years already spent in the Rajya Sabha, will he be third time lucky? State Congress leaders said that former Union minister Suresh Pachauri spent four terms in the Upper House from 1984, got re-elected in 1990, then 1996 and his last term was from 2002-08. If Suresh Pachauri got four terms, Chaturvedi could also get a third term.A top leader in the party said while Pachauri tenure stretched over 24 years in the Upper House, this time it is advocate Sajid Ali, who is interested in getting nominated to the seat.
 
 Most Congress leaders agreed that if state leaders were asked by the AICC, they would favour sending a minority face to the Rajya Sabha.
 
 “Whether it is Muslim, Christian or Sikh – one person from a minority community should be sent. There is only one Muslim MLA in a house of 230 and one Sikh. We cannot send them to state assembly or Lok Sabha, so they should get some representation in the Rajya Sabha,” a senior Congress leader said.
 
 Eight months before the assembly elections, it is also PCC chief Arun Yadav whose name is being discussed by the political grapevine. Arun Yadav had one term in the Lok Sabha and is known to be part of AICC president Rahul Gandhi’s Gennext team. It depends on Rahul Gandhi if he wants Arun Yadav to play a prominent role in Madhya Pradesh in the election year or give him a Rajya Sabha seat and responsibility in New Delhi. Yet another option is that someone from outside the state is nominated to go to the Upper House from Madhya Pradesh.
 
 
