CHANDIGARH: Haryana government has appointed B K   as the chairperson of newly carved  , an autonomous body created to promote academic excellence and social justice in the state by obtaining academic inputs.

 An RSS ideologue, Kuthiala was serving as the vice-chancellor (VC) of Makhanlal Chaturvedi National University of Journalism and Communication, Bhopal, and retired recently. Sources in the Haryana government confirmed that Kuthiala joined as the first head of the council on Thursday. Sourced confirmed to TOI that Kuthiala’s closeness to various saffron leaders, especially-noted RSS ideologue  , helped him in getting the prestigious appointment. He was a known face and instrument behind several seminars, academic activities and events organized to promote the Hindu right wing philosophy.
 
 Even the state government had come under severe criticism when it hurriedly brought an ordinance to constitute the council for higher education, just before the budget session was to start. Leader of Opposition Abhay Singh Chautala had termed the state’s move to accommodate people from saffron background in the council.
 
 Later, the state assembly had passed the Haryana State Higher Education Council Act in the recently concluded budget session. 
 
 Kuthiala, who had turned 70 on March 23, also served in the journalism and mass communication departments in Guru Jhambheswar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, and  , Kurukshetra (KUK). He was also founder director of KUK’s Institute of Mass Communication and Media Technology (IMC&MT).
 
 Alleging various irregularities during Kuthiala’s tenure in Hisar and KU, a complaint was also sent on March 4 to the Haryana governor and the chief minister by an academic and former faculty member of  . In his complaint, supported by several documents, Mishra, now dean of a university in Punjab, had requested the state government to re-consider his appointment on such prestigious post. In his detailed representation, Mishra had also mentioned specific cases regarding breach of propriety and incidents of conflict of interests in Kuthiala’s functioning while serving in Haryana based institutions.
 
 The council’s objective includes guiding the growth of higher education in accordance with the socio-economic requirements of the state.
 
 
