Chandigarh: Annual review and revision of penalties, fines of various offences prescribed in the municipal bylaws will be mandatory under the proposed amendment to the Punjab Municipal Act (Extended to the UT). Significantly, the segment of revision of the penalty charges is quite significant in the current scenario, as the civic body has been passing through its worst ever financial crises.

 In the proposed amendment, UT administration has clearly mentioned, “The municipal corporation will do an annual review and may revise the rates of penalties and fines for various offences prescribed under the provisions of the act and bylaws made there under, with the prior approval of the administrator, UT Chandigarh.”
 
 Significantly, the matter related to the revision of penalty charges have come in the general house meetings in the past, but the same could not be revised due to the intervention of the general house member, terming it the financial burden on the public.
 
 Besides, the point of the revision of the penalties and fines, making commissioner more powerful has also been proposed in the amendment to the existing act. The clause says, “the administrator UT may delegate special financial powers to the commissioner of   to meet any requirement to the MC, in public interest, at his own decision, from the existing budget grant to the municipal corporation Chandigarh.”
 
 By this move, there is an attempt to make the municipal commissioner more powerful. Since financial crunch is the major crisis for the civic body, it requires money from whatever means they get.
 
 Significantly, the Chandigarh administration has given 30-day time period to the general public and all the stakeholders to send their objections, suggestions to the authority and moreover, the administration has also been planning to call to the stakeholders to the detailed discussion to the take the optimum views on the issue and then finalise it to send to the central government.
 
 “Since, Chandigarh administration has prepared the proposed amendments after discussing the matter in detail with both the ministry of home affairs –MHA- and ministry of laws, after taking objections or suggestion, the same will be sent to the central government to place it before the parliament to pass the made amendments,” says theammendment.
 
 
