Nagpur: Continuing its strict stand against private travel bus operators, the Nagpur bench of   directed them to file a combined affidavit that they wouldn’t operate within 200 metres vicinity of   (MSRTC) bus stand at  .

 A division bench comprising justices   and   on Thursday, also directed to implement its order of prohibiting vehicles of those operators, which failed to file reply on court’s notices, till end of this month. So far, 51 of them had responded, while on Thursday, three to more have approached the court. 
 
 The stringent directives came while hearing a suo motu PIL based on letters by the citizens that menace of private bus operators were increasing day by day, due to failure of authorities like RTO to take appropriate measures, and MSRTC was suffering losses due to them. The court had appointed   as amicus curiae.
 
 Earlier, all operators agreed to file individual affidavits that they were ready to comply with HC’s orders of not plying within vicinity of ST Stand. But the judges observed that in case of violations, they would point out fingers at each other. They asked them to form a body and file a combined affidavit that they would strictly comply with the court’s orders and RTO norms and wouldn’t violate 200 meters rule.
 
 MSRTC also filed an affidavit stating that private operators were running buses illegally and in breach of conditions, thus turning busy   square into a hub of anti-social elements.
 
 Citing orders passed by the collector on February 15 and police on April 3, 1996, MSRTC earlier informed that the private firms were prohibited from operating within radius of 200 meters from ST Stand. It stated that the government faced huge losses due to these operators. Yet many buses belonging to private agencies can be seen parked on the side of the road obstructing traffic. The MSRTC passed the buck on RTO and district collector stating that they failed to act against the operators. As per the Motor Vehicles Act, licenses of such offenders must be cancelled, but authorities are not probing into the issue.
 
 
