PUNE: Three unidentified men assaulted Sudarshan Shendge (36) and robbed him of valuables collectively worth Rs17,200 on the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass. The incident happened around 1 am on Wednesday while Shendge was waiting for his friend to pick him up after his car developed a technical snag and he was left alone on the road.

 Shendge, of Hartali village in   district, sustained injuries on his right palm after one of the trio assaulted him with a sharp weapon, said assistant inspector of   police, G J Dhamane.
 
 Dhamane told TOI that Shendge is an employee at a private company located in   MIDC about 40km from the city and used to travel in his car. When Shendge started heading to Satara from his company in Ambi late on Tuesday night his car started to develop technical problems. Due to the technical issues, he had to drive the car at a slow speed. 
 
 Around 1 am when Shendge reached Bavdhan on the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass, his car stopped working stranding him there. “Shendge somehow managed to parked the car along the bypass and called his friend,” Dhamane said.
 
 Around 1.15 am, while he was waiting for his friends to come pick him up, three men riding a motorcycle stopped near the car. One of the motorcyclists asked Shendge to give him water. When Shendge told him that he was not carrying water, the three men got off the motorcycle and started abusing him.
 
 The matter escalated as one of them took out a sharp weapon and attacked Shendge. In an attempt to save himself Shendge tried to hold the man’s hand during which he sustained injuries on his palm. The suspects then pushed Shendge down on the road. “They forcibly took Rs2,200 and a laptop from the car and fled,” Dhamane said.
 
 After the trio fled, an injured Shendge contacted the police control room and informed them about the  . The police team reached the spot and took Shendge to a hospital. After receiving treatment at the hospital Shendge lodged a complaint with the police.
 
 The suspects have been booked under section 394 (voluntarily causing hurt) of the IPC.
 
 
