GHAZIABAD: The family of 18-year-old  , who was shot dead on NH-58 in   just three hours after her wedding, has questioned the robbery motive behind the murder, asking why others accompanying her were not attacked.

 The woman’s relatives have also accused the bridegroom’s family of delaying treatment to Farhana by choosing to take her to a hospital 25km away when there was a healthcare facility nearby.
 
 “Her father did not have enough money, so she got married at a community wedding. Most of the jewellery she had on her were artificial. It is highly unlikely that she was killed for cash and ornaments. The role of the bridegroom’s family should be scrutinised,” said Shahrukh Khan, Farhana’s cousin.
 
 The family said it was also not clear to them why the bride had been mentioned as “Mehvish Parveen” in the invitation card when she was known as Farhana to all.
 
 Over half-a-dozen assailants had waylaid the car of Farhana and her husband on NH-58 in Meerut’s Mataur village late on Friday evening. The assailants had shot the bride allegedly when she screamed. 
 
 Two persons have been detained from Farhana’s village Nahal and police are probing if a jilted lover is involved in the murder.
 
 The woman’s brother said on Sunday that the assailants could not have killed Farhana for cash. He pointed out that had it been so, other members of the wedding party too would have been attacked. “Why did they not take my sister to a nearby hospital in Daurala where the incident took place? They took her to one located some 25km away from the spot,” asked Abdur Rehman, Farhana’s brother. 
 
 “There is a petrol pump and a few shops near the spot where my sister was shot. How come no one saw my sister being shot? The bridegroom,  , and his relatives have been giving conflicting versions. The family’s role should be probed,” he added.
 
 Farhana was the second among nine siblings, who included five brothers and four sisters. She was the eldest of four sisters. Farhana’s sister Sahana said she used to work as a seamstress for a daily wage of Rs 20-30.
 
 
