CHENNAI: IIT Madras has seen a significant increase in   funding over the past three years, with contributions from former students hitting a record high of Rs 55.3 crore in 2016-17. 

 The institute is seeing active participation of former students, not just through contributions but also mentorship and research efforts, and aims to boost   raised from alumni to Rs 500 crore in 2020.
 
 From Rs 31.8 crore in FY 2014-15, alumni contributions grew to Rs 45.4 crore in FY 2015-16 and Rs 55.3 crore in FY 2016-17. 
 
 The institute started systematic fundraising in 2009 by approaching alumni, corporates, foundations and industry. The response from alumni has been very strong from 2011, said R Nagarajan, dean (international & alumni relations), IIT Madras. 
 
 “IIT Madras alumni have always been willing to give back through the the ‘3Ts’ -- time, talent and treasure. The main areas where we intend to use contributions include research centres, campus infrastructure, student amenities, innovation & entrepreneurship, internationalisation initiatives and social transformation,” he said.
 
 While there have been some big individual contributions like Rs 30 crore from Infosys cofounder   to sponsor a Centre for Computational Brain Research, batches of a particular year often raise funds to make a joint contribution. For instance, when the 1981 batch celebrated its silver reunion, they contributed Rs 80 lakh for setting up the Centre for Innovation. “Over time, this has become the centrepiece of the campus for promoting innovation,” said Nagarajan.
 
 For some alumni, investing in their alma mater is a way to “ward off an attack of nostalgia” as Fairfax Holdings chairman Prem Watsa put it. Watsa said he was keen on investing back into IIT-Madras because he could still remember how the institute had welcomed and nourished him as a gangly 18-year-old. 
 
 Watsa, who is one of the 150 alumni to be designated as a “distinguished alumnus” by the institute, has helped renovate the institute's stadium for a 400-metre, 8-lane synthetic track in memory of his father Manohar C Watsa.
 
 “I was a very keen sportsman during my student days. It really was a great source of pride for me that IIT-Madras started winning the inter-IIT trophy during my tenure as sports secretary,” said Watsa, a 1971-batch chemical engineering graduate from  .
 
 
