MUMBAI: Land records can be accessed across the state at a click of a button now. As part of the land record digitization project, the   government has completed scanning of over 34 crore records and these will soon be available online.

 Officials say the purpose is to allow for checking of land records, the name of the owner, area, pending dues on the land, if any, so that sale and purchase of land becomes easier and stressfree in the state.
 
 
  
 Governor C   announced this during his joint address to legislators of both the Houses on the first day of the budget session of the Maharashtra assembly.
 
 “Cadastral maps (showing the extent, value, and ownership of land, especially for taxation) of six districts of Raigad, Aurangabad, Pune, Amravati, Nashik and Nagpur are being digitized in the first phase,” said Rao. It is part of the central government-sponsored  . Under the project, record rooms will also be modernized, he added.
 
 Officials said the project was to be completed last year, but the pace of scanning and verification of the papers slowed down due to largescale errors that have crept into the system. “The pace has slowed down in the last few months. The scanning of most documents has been completed. Verification and making them available to view online is taking a while,” said an official.
 
 The governor, in his speech, also spoke about the various infrastructure projects that the state government was undertaking across different cities of the state. He said metro rail projects worth Rs 1 lakh crore are being carried out in Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur.
 
 To decongest road traffic, the state government was looking to focus on water transport and the government will soon begin construction of the first marina in Maharashtra, at Belapur in the Panvel creek. “In the first phase of the project, berthing facilities for 30 boats will be created,” said Rao.
 
 He also spoke about the ease of doing business initiatives taken by the BJP-led government and other industrial policies it has adopted to make Maharashtra a one trillion dollar economy.
 
