CHENNAI: Farmers in at least 100 villages in the state will soon being storing pesticides in a central facility where access would be restricted, the health department has said, hoping this will bring down the incidence of suicides due to   poisoning.

 Such a facility, where each family has its own locker, can permit easy monitoring. “Most of the time, decision to end lives is impulsive. If they don’t have immediate access to pesticide, we will be able to reduce mortalities,” said psychiatrist Dr Lakshmi Vijayakumar, founder of  , a suicide prevention NGO.
 
 Self-harm was the third most common cause of death and disability in the state in 2016 after ischemic heart disease and diabetes, according to the India: Health of the Nation Report released by the Indian Council of Medical Research with Public Health Foundation of India and Institute of Health Metrics and Evaluation. Nearly 4.3% of deaths and disability in   in 2016 were due to self-harm against 3.6% in 1996.
 
 The 15-39 age group is the most vulnerable in the state, accounting for a quarter of the deaths linked to self-harm and violence the second highest in the country after Tripura.
 
 In the last three years, at least three documents released by the   and the   pegged the suicide rate (number of suicides per 1 lakh population) in   at nearly 28% at least three times the national average. Studies also show that the single most important means of suicide worldwide is by ingestion of pesticides, accounting for a third of all suicides.
 
 In 2010, after villages in Cuddalore district engaged in floriculture were identified, two were randomly selected as the intervention sites and two became control sites. Two centralised storage facilities along with lockable storage boxes were constructed with local involvement in a WHO-funded project. “From about 10 suicides a year, we have come to almost zero in those villages,” said Dr Vijayakumar.
 
 The health department has decided to expand this to 100 villages. “As of now, the number of suicides is higher than road accident deaths,” said health secretary  . The health and agriculture departments will soon create awareness among farmers on the need for a centralised facility.
 
 The state will also ensure creating awareness among general practitioners, nurses and paramedics, so signs of suicidal tendencies can be identified early. It also plans a special programmes for teenagers in schools. “As of now the number of psychiatrists and hospitals we have for mental health in the state is very low. If we are able to get nurses identify risks and general physicians treat the disorders early, we will be able to bring down mortality drastically,” a senior official said.
 
 
