CHENNAI: Padmini Suppiah from   was beaming with joy. The Malaysian-born Tamil became the first international patron to order online Negamam sari from Cooptex portal. It will reach her doorstep in three days. “It took less than five minutes to complete the entire transaction to get my sari. From now on, I won’t wait for my family or friends to visit Cooptex showroom in Chennai to get my sari,” the project manager of   said.

 Making profit for the fifth year in a row, the state-run Co-optex is going international. On Wednesday, the state government launched international shopping and shipping through Co-optex portal, having entered in a tie-up with DHL and Professional Couriers to hand over the commodities in US or China. Blending classic with contemporary designs, product diversification and e-commerce to expand customer base, the   Handloom Weavers’ Cooperative Society, popularly known as Cooptex, is trying to make a turn-around. Deepavali festival sale touched Rs 140 crore, while Pongal Rs 70 crore this year.
 
 The agency raked in Rs 260 crore thus far this fiscal and the revenue stood at RS 246 crore in the corresponding period last year. “The international payment gateway is our attempt to reach larger sections. Organic cotton saris, Ahimsa saris (the product that comes from the process of allowing silk worms to break away from the cocoon before the silk is retrieved),   (recreating the grandeur of the motifs and designs of silk saris into pure cotton) and Chettinad cotton saris are a huge hit,” Cooptex managing director   said. The organisation with its huge presence in 16 states is working on regional differentiation, experimenting with colours and traditional motifs and different shades and colours, retaining the main motifs of   or Arni.
 
 With the core strength of Cooptex being cotton products, weaver empowerment has been given a thrust in 20 cotton weaving clusters in the state, updating weavers with technical and design knowledge. The frequent meetings and workshops with weavers, designers and society managers helped get 2200 new designs of various products last year. 
 
 
 
 
