HYDERABAD: City police on Saturday kicked off an investigation into the case filed against the management of   (  India), alleging them of using ‘physical intimidation’ tactics to ‘coerce’ employees of the IT company into signing their resignation letters.

 According to the complaint lodged with the   police station by retrenched employees operating under the banner of   of IT professionals, ‘bouncers and hooligans’ were used by the management to ‘threaten’ employees at the firm, on the morning of December 12, 2017.
 
 Police officials have now gathered   camera footage from the Verizon campus to look for evidence.
 
 Verizon Data Services India (VDS India) has been alleged of letting more than
 
 250 employees go in a massive layoff in December 2017.
 
 “We are currently in the process of gathering evidence to strengthen our case against the Verizon management,” said Praveen Chandrahas, a member of Forum of IT professionals, which is currently assisting retrenched employees of Verizon Data Services India (VDS India) file petitions with the labour department, alleging ‘unlawful termination’.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 “There was both physical as well as mental threat to us and the management coerced us into signing the document. We would like to place on record that we did not sign the document voluntarily and only did so under force, intimidation and coercion,” reads the complaint filed by former employees of Verizon.
 
 “I noticed that security was beefed up all across the campus on the morning of December 12 last year,” said a retrenched employee of Verizon on condition of anonymity.
 
 “When I reached the office I had been working at for more than 10 years, I was called to a room individually by the HR manager. Bouncers were also present inside the room where we were given our resignation letters.
 
 “We were not given proper intimation or any time to make an informed decision,” he said.
 
 ‘Awareness on labour laws and how it applies to IT industries is low’
 
 IT employees in the city are an apprehensive lot, with recent reports hinting that tech giant IBM was planning to reassign 30% of its staff and, in the process, letting more than 10,000 jobs go. According to sources, the tech giant may let go more than 1,500 employees in Hyderabad alone. About 100 employees from companies, such as IBM, HCL and  , gathered at a seminar organized in the city on Saturday, on the topic, ‘Are labour laws applicable to IT employees?’.
 
 “Awareness about labour laws and how it applies to the IT industry is extremely low among employees. We are now trying to educate more employees on how to handle coerced retrenchment, legally. We appeal to IT professionals not to bow down to pressure or sign the resignation letters,” said Kiran Chandra, a founding member of Forum of IT professionals. 
 
