MOHALI: Punjab sports minister   took stock of the facilities at the two sports stadiums in Sector 78 and Sector 63 and the   (PIS). Sodhi pointed out many anomalies at the stadiums and directed the officials to rectify them. 

 
 The minister also took stock of all the facilities at the two sports stadiums and saw the gymnastics, table tennis, swimming, basketball, wrestling, judo and hockey grounds. Taking serious notice of the discrepancies in the construction of the stadium and gymnasium hall as well as the bathrooms, Sodhi instructed the officers concerned to rectify the shortcomings at the earliest.
 
 He also took serious note of the bad condition of the swimming pool and breakage of tiles on the walls. While directing the officials to repair the same, the minister said they will improve the infrastructure of the stadium. "Good results in sports always come with good infrastructure," the minister said.
 
 Sodhi wants the kids to take interest in sports too. To involve kids in multiple sports activities at a young age, Sodhi said he would meet the education minister so that the sports and education department can co-ordinate in a better way. He also added that the sports department would coach the physical education teachers.
 
 While visiting the hockey AstroTurf, Sodhi directed the officers to ensure that the chairs meant for the spectators are properly maintained. The minister said the   would ensure arrangement of sports coaches, facilities, diet and necessary paraphernalia so as to produce world-class players. "No talent would be allowed to go waste," said Sodhi.
 
 Sodhi instructed the district sports officers (DSOs) to send monthly progress reports of the coaches in writing. He added the coaches should identify the "excellent players from amongst the lot training under them" who would then be prepared to take part in  .
 
 
 
 Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi also checked upon the boarding and lodging facilities of the players. The minister tasted the food, which was being prepared in the mess, and was satisfied with its quality. He also visited the hall where the hockey players of the Punjab Institute of Sports live. Sodhi said within the next two-three months, the hostel would be ready. 
 
