PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar will face the first big electoral test after severing ties with Grand Alliance and returning to the NDA fold in July last year when   to Araria Lok Sabha constituency and Bhabhua and Jehanabad assembly constituencies will be held on Sunday. JD (U) has fielded its candidate in Jehanabad assembly seat, leaving Araria and Bhabua to the  .

 The Election Commission (EC) will use EVMs and VVPATs in byelections in all the polling stations. “Adequate number of EVMs and VVPATs has been made available and all steps have been taken to ensure that the polls are conducted smoothly with the help of these machines,” said an EC official.
 
 In Araria Lok Sabha constituency, 17.38 lakh voters, including 8.18 lakh women, will exercise their franchise.
 
 The two camps – NDA and Grand Alliance consisting of RJD and   – have claimed victory of their respective candidates. State BJP spokesmen Rajib Ranjan and Prem Ranjan Patel on Saturday said the NDA nominees would win all the three seats with a comfortable margin.
 
 In Araria, BJP’s Pradip Kumar Singh is locked in a direct contest with RJD’s Sarfaraz Alam, son of former RJD MP Mohammad Taslimuddin, whose death in September last year necessitated the bypolls. Singh had lost to Taslimuddin by a huge margin in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections when the BJP and JD (U) were not together.
 
 The stakes are high even in the Jehanabad and Bhabhua assembly constituencies. The Bhabhua assembly seat was vacated by the death of BJP’s Anand Bhushan Pandey and the ruling alliance has fielded his wife Rinki Rani Pandey and hopes to win the seat back. Pandey is pitched against Shambhu Singh Patel of Congress. The Bahujan Samaj Party and the CPI, which together won the seat thrice in the past, have not fielded their candidates this time to ensure Congress’s victory.
 
 For the Congress, which has, of late, received drubbings at the hands of BJP in several states, any mass turnout in its favour in Bhabhua bypolls will give it a shot in the arm.
 
 The Jehanabad assembly seat was held by RJD’s Mundrika Prasad Yadav, but the JD (U)-BJP had won it when they were partners earlier and hope that their coming together again will help them get back the seat. JD (U) has fielded Abhiram Sharma in Jehanabad while Mundrika’s son Sunjay Yadav will contest the seat on RJD ticket.
 
 
