CHANDIGARH: Addressing the grievances of   ( ) officers, the state cabinet on Tuesday decided that seven police ranges shall be headed by an officer of the rank of   or DIG, who shall supervise the police administration and report to the DGP directly or through any superior officer. The   (amendment) Ordinance-2018 will now be placed before the state assembly for enactment in the forthcoming budget session.

 Earlier, the   governor had promulgated the ordinance on January 2, replacing DIGs with IGPs as heads of seven police ranges for rationalising the police structure. The decision had resulted in resentment among PPS officers who reach till the DIG rank at the fag end of their service career. The seven police ranges include Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala, Bathinda, Ropar, Ferozepur and border.
 
 Also, as per the amended ordinance, officers of subordinate ranks of district police, armed police, intelligence, investigation, technical and support services shall form separate cadres. It has been proposed that seniority of each cadre shall be maintained at the state level. Also, transfer of a member of one cadre to another cadre shall not be allowed. But an officer of subordinate rank working in special operation group (SOG) may be transferred to district police after the successful completion of the fixed tenure in SOG as specified by the state government.
 
 As per the act, in case an officer of subordinate rank is rendered completely or partially disabled during an operation or training, the period of fixed tenure can be relaxed by the DGP for the purpose of transfer to district police. It has also been decided if the subordinate rank officer, who opts for transfer to district police, if transferred, his seniority shall be placed at the bottom of the officers holding the same rank in the district police.
 
 According to the new act, transfer and postings of officers of subordinate ranks within a police range shall be made by the IG or DIG of the range, as the case may be, on the recommendations of a committee comprising SSPs of all districts in that range.
 
 
