NAGPUR:   in 49 centres was a smooth affair on Wednesday during the by-elections of the Bhandara-Gondia  . A turnout of 48.85% was recorded in these centres which had 39,500 voters in all. 

 
 
 
 Voting could not take place on May 28 when the elections were originally held as the electronic voting machines (EVMs) did not work in these centres.
 
 This is a rare case where re-polling has taken place inasmuch as 20% of the total centres in a given constituency. “Normally re-polling takes place in only 2-3 centres where voting may have been marred due to glitches or any other incidents,” said sources handling the election process. 
 
 A turnout of 53% was recorded on May 28. The final turnout figure by excluding the votes which were cast in the 49 centres before the EVMs went off will only be released on Thursday when counting too is set to take place.
 
 Sources handling the election process say that the number of votes polled before EVMs went off would be marginal only. With a turnout of 53% during the first day and 48.85% during re-polling, the average turnout comes to 51% at present.
 
 Wednesday’s polling took place without any glitches. EVMs were requisitioned from Kanker in neighbouring Chhattisgarh and Sangli in Maharashtra. “There were 98 EVMs deployed for the 49 centres,” a source said.
 
 The Bhandara-Gondia seat fell vacant after   MP Nana Patole quit the party citing that the Narendra Modi regime was indifferent to the farmers’ cause. Patole, who had won against Nationalist   Party (NCP) stalwart Praful Patel, joined the Congress after he quit BJP. Now he is campaigning for Madhukar Kukde, the candidate fielded by NCP for the by-elections. 
 
 Kukde, a former  , is in his late 70s. BJP has fielded another ex-MLA Hemant Patle.
 
 Totally, 18 candidates are in the fray. Apart from the main contenders, LK Madavi of the Prakash Ambedkar-led BRP-BMS is a favourite.
 
 “Early trends for the bypolls will be known by 9am and the results are expected to be out by 2pm,” said a source.
 
 
