COIMBATORE: Ameya Bagaria, an 11-year-old boy, was ecstatic as the paper plane he made crossed a distance of 40.30feet. “I love flying paper planes and always do so even in my free time with my friends,” he said.

 He was at the paper plane workshop and competition conducted by WeThe5Pilots at Decathlon on Saturday. More than 40 children took part in the workshop and learnt to make two types of planes - the vanilla version and the interceptor type that goes a longer distance.
 
 Not just folding papers, but the entire aerodynamics and the functionality of paper planes was explained. “Why a tail wing is important, what side needs to be folded to increase the thrust and all such technicalities were taught,” said K  , co-founder of WeThe5Pilots. The company was formed after like-minded people, who had taken part in a Smart India Hackathon, decided to get together.
 
 “We are involved in projects such as making a wind turbine and other aeronautical engineering products. Apart from that, we wanted to get into the educational sphere as well. So, we decided to come up with kits that will help children make and experience flying objects. We are teaching children how to make mini versions of paper planes, rockets, satellites, parachutes, drones and gliders by creating separate kits for each,” Naveen told TOI.
 
 Gokulnath, another co-founder, said that India, which was planning to improve its manufacturing sector, has been unable to develop its own fighter jets. “We want to ensure that children from a young age are taught all these concepts so that they will grow up to develop those things,” he said.
 
 The founders of the company are all aeronautical engineers and are 21 years of age. Naveen, who is mentoring them, is around 30 years old. “We are trying to build engineering design services for aerospace industry and try to help educate children as well as those who can get into the same industry,” said Naveen.
 
 All the children who attended the workshop will take part in three-levels of workshops, in which they will be taught to make nine types of planes using paper used by the Indian defence department, and also two gliders. They will later learn to make flying objects using wood.
 
 
