AHMEDABAD: Gujarat high court has asked the state government to pay compensation to an   victim, who is a 24-year-old tribal woman from   district.

 The high court last week ordered for the compensation under the Victim Compensation Scheme while refusing to entertain the bail application filed by accused  , who finally withdrew the application. The HC ordered the trial court to expedite the criminal proceedings in this case.
 
 The case pertains to an FIR lodged with   police station last year. The complaint filed by the victim stated that she suffered a horrendous acid attack from Khalifa, who had uploaded her photographs on social media to defame her upon her refusal to marry him. Khalifa was also accused of criminal intimidation and harassing the woman’s parents also.
 
 The police slapped charges under section 326A and 506(a) of the IPC as well as under the Information Technology Act against Khalifa. He was also booked under the atrocity laws because the woman belongs to a tribal community.
 
 When Khalifa approached the trial court for bail, the court denied bail to him on the ground of seriousness of the offence. The court also observed that since the victim belonged to a Hindu Adivasi community and the accused is a Muslim, granting bail to him may lead to law and order issues.
 
 Khalifa moved the HC, which inquired whether the acid attack victim has been compensated under the existing compensation scheme. The court was informed that the government had paid compensation under the scheme meant for victims belonging to the SC/ST community under the Atrocities Act. The HC directed the chairman of   to take necessary steps for providing appropriate compensation to the victim under the Victim Compensation Scheme.
 
 The HC observed that the acid attack victim is eligible and entitled to get compensation under the Victim Compensation Scheme formulated by the government under section 357A of the CrPC because she suffered injury on account of offence against body. This scheme is introduced with a laudable object of rehabilitation of the victim and his/her dependants, the HC said.
 
 
