Jesus Christ fasted for 40 days and 40 nights, says the Holy Bible. Lesser mortals may not be able to pull such a feat off, but for Christians observing Lent, fasting and abstinence during these 40 days is an attempt to walk in the way of Christ. And   marks the culmination of that spiritual journey that begins every year on Ash Wednesday. No wonder then that the Easter feast is such a celebration. Every household has its own Easter traditions, and no, it has nothing to do with painted Easter eggs and bunny hunts that have gained fame thanks to pop culture. Hyderabad’s Christian community gives us a peek into what’s on the Easter table today, and the menu seems to be an eclectic mix of all things spicy and nice. Bon appétit and a blessed Easter!

 
 When you observe Lent for 40 days, you give up a lot of things. Some people give up meat, some quit alcohol, and others, a lot more. So on Easter day, we finally feast. There are the symbolic Easter eggs — to mark the new beginning — which have chocolate and truffle inside, and are simply yummy. My mother is a wonderful cook, so I look forward to her Easter eggs every year. Apart from that, there’s also roast chicken, turkey and salad. We spend quality family time and that’s something I look forward to, since normally we’re all busy and don’t catch up too often. For me, Easter is about family and good food. 
 —  , artist/musician
 
 Easter is a time for prayer and family bonding at my home. We begin our day by attending the sunrise service in the church after which we break our fast. Then the celebrations begin. As for the feast, it is a simple Hyderabadi affair. While the rest of the world gorges on Easter eggs and roast Turkey, in Telangana we have boiled eggs! But the highlight of the feast is the dalcha, a tangy dal made with mutton and bagara khana. That’s my all time favourite. 
 — Anup Rubens, composer 
 
 I didn’t fast this Lent because I’ve been working out to stay in shape for my next film’s shooting. Nonetheless, my mouth waters when I think of the Easter delicacies my mother is busy cooking at home in Vizag. It is something I look forward to all year long. The Easter feast at my home is a mix of traditional Malabar and Andhra delicacies as my dad is a Malayali and my mum is a Telugu. For breakfast we have kallappam (appam made with toddy) with lip-smacking chicken stew and fish curry... trust me it’s heavenly! Lunch is a lavish affair filled with chicken, mutton, fish and prawns. My mum’s prawn curry is to die for and I usually polish off plates full of it. But sadly, I’m just going to be spending my Easter Sunday yearning for the family lunch as I’ll be shooting in Hyderabad. 
 — Prince, actor
 
 The Holy Week is a very special time for me as it starts with the breaking of the fast with orphan boys. Since 1990, every Easter we have broken our abstinence with the boys of St. Mark’s Boys Town orphanage. After the night vigil, we have a small feast. The celebrations follow with a grand reunion where over 50 of my classmates from St. George’s Grammar School come with their families for a potluck lunch at my residence. This is also an Easter tradition we follow since the last 30 years, as what better time for sharing than Easter?
  —  , Retired IPS officer 
 
 For the Anglo Indian community in Hyderabad, Easter is a special occasion which is celebrated with utmost piety and reverence. Christ has given his life for humanity and we attend special Easter prayers in churches in the morning and spend time with family members and relatives. On the occasion, we also have a lavish lunch with lot of non-vegetarian delicacies. Turkey and roasted meat are some of the delicacies we have along with specially made Easter cakes.
 — Maxwell Trevor, popular Indian cyclist, coach and national record holder
 
 This year, Easter for us is about new beginnings, literally. My children decided that the concept of giving something up for 40 days doesn’t appeal to them anymore. Instead, they wanted to perform an act of kindness and try to be better individuals. I thought that was phenomenal. So, Lent and Easter have taken a new turn for us this year. And of course, the feasting has gotten all the more meaningful as well. I will be making some Easter eggs for sure, but the real deal is the big grandmother’s feast which the children look forward to every year. There will be 
 mutton stew, appams, samosas, sausages and an endless supply of home baked curry puffs — minced meat and veggie puffs — which are called ‘curry puffs’ in our home. Since it’s so hot, we wash it all down with our house special watermelon punch. For dinner, we keep it modern with lasagna, tossed salads and lots of veggies. 
 —  , home baker
 
 I’ve given up non-vegetarian food for the 40 days of Lent and I’ve been eagerly waiting for Easter to gorge on good food again. We begin Easter day by attending the service and then all of us, about 30-40 people, go for breakfast. For breakfast we have eggs, sandwiches and sausages. But lunch is a real feast. There’s roast chicken, biryani, kebabs and a whole lot more on the table, and after giving up non-veg for so long, this is something that I’m really looking forward to. Of course, there are Easter eggs as well, and we also give them as gifts to our friends and family.
 —  , music teacher
 
 According to Ethiopian calendar, Easter will fall on April 8, so I will wait until then to celebrate with my friends. However, Indian churches celebrate Easter in a bigger way, so I will head to the mass at Hope Unlimited Church. As for next week, the menu is fixed with Enjara, Doro Wat (which is a soup) and defo dabo (bread).
 — Yeninish, PhD scholar,   
 
 Easter is an extremely special festival for me as exactly four years ago I got baptised into Christianity on Easter day. So every easter is more about prayer and a conversation with the Lord than the feasting. I grew up as a Maharashtrian Brahmin, so traditionally there is no particular thing we follow for Easter, so the celebrations keep changing each year. This year we plan on having a Marathi biryani with coconut base and a chocolate cake to go with it.
 — Amey Marathe, Chef
 
