Trichy: Children of the urban slum were more prone to addictive behaviours than others, a children’s parliament has observed while discussing various vulnerabilities of children in Trichy.

 Community renovation and organisation advancement trust (COROAT) organized the event with the aim of highlighting the need for forming a panel like the village child protection committee in urban areas. The programme saw an active participation from children.
 
 The parliament also expressed concern about the growing child labour issue, stating that it was one of the problems stunting children in Varaganeri, Sathiyamoorthy Nagar, warehouse area in Palakkarai and few other places in the city.
 
 “As the children there are forced into hard labours, they have to work with adults, putting them in an environment of ganja, solutions, and various narcotic products,” said a boy R Vadivel who took the role of prime minister in the meeting. 
 
 A total of 11 children took part in the event, speaking about the issues faced by the children in the area.
 
 M Baranidharan, who was named the minister of child welfare, spoke on the need for creating a mechanism to identify the vulnerable children and rehabilitate them.
 
  “Neither there is a committee nor a monitoring body to keep a vigil on such susceptible section of people. So, there must be a mechanism to check the menace affecting the children,” said Baranidharan.
 
 They cited the frequent incidences of child sexual abuses by the family members and friends in such areas. The proposed committee by the NGO comprises 11 members, including a headmaster, councillor, parents and children. It will discuss the issues affecting the children.
 
 “Developing addictive behaviours from childhood is the root-cause of sexual exploitation and juvenile delinquency. If there is a committee like VCPC, the implementation can be possible in the urban areas with the help of NGOs for which a government order should be passed,” said the founder trustee of (COROAT) M Padmavathy.
 
 
