MANGALURU:   is starting a new post-graduate course in medical physics (MSc in medical Physics) from the coming academic year. The Atomic Energy Regulatory Board (AERB) of government of India has recognised and approved the course. About 18 such courses (or equivalent) are being offered by different institutions and universities across the country. This course will be first of its kind in universities in Karnataka.

 S A Bhardwaj, chairman, AERB will inaugurate the course at the Syndicate hall of the university on May 18. V Balasubramaniyan, director, Nuclear Safety Analysis and Research Group and Safety Institute, AERB and D Datta, head, radiological physics and advisory division, Bhabha Atomic Research Centre, Mumbai will be the guests of honour, Hiriyur Mallaiah Somashekarappa, coordinator, medical physics division of the university said.
 
 K Byrappa, VC, Mangalore University noted that the university has entered into a memorandum of understanding with Mangalore Institute of Oncology and A J Hospital and Research Centre. “We are planning to sign more MoU with other medical colleges and hospitals for running this course. Students of this course will be conducting some of the practical classes in these institutions and will be placed for their internship after completion of the course,” he said.
 
 Medical physics is the application of physics concepts, theories and methods to medicine or healthcare. The term medical physicist is title of a specific healthcare profession, usually working within a hospital. Medical physicists are often found in the following healthcare specialties – diagnostic and interventional radiology (also known as medical imaging), nuclear medicine, radiation protection and radiation oncology, Byrappa said.
 
 They play an important role in planning of radiation treatments for cancer patients, using either external radiation beams or internal radioactive sources. They can become a radiological safety officer (RSO) and perform investigation of equipment performance, organization of quality control in imaging systems, design of radiation installations and supervising, and control of radiation hazards. Universities are mainly concerned with preparing students for a career.
 
 Byrappa said the careers include as a hospital medical physicist, radiological safety officer and research focusing on improving practice of the profession. The more specific application will be in diagnosing and treating the cancer patients using ionizing radiations. In addition, there will be good opportunities for students completing this course with one year hospital training in outside the country as a medical physicist in cancer hospitals or as RSOs, Byrappa added.
 
 
