Three Hyderabadi women on the other side of 40s were “itching to do something adventurous”, when an advertisement of Times Women’s Drive — the annual Time-Speed-Distance rally held by   — caught their attention. They registered for it “in a heartbeat” and soon, Rachna Mehta, Shailja Patwari and Nirmala Jhabakh, were on the road competing with 60 other teams from the city. Two days later, the trio reached Goa just in time to win the second prize in the Hyderabad Chapter. “We missed the first prize by a whisker — 1 min, 45 seconds — to a team of professionals. The winning team was actually a bunch of girls from Chennai, but they registered from Hyderabad for the race. Also, they were an experienced lot and unlike us, have been participating in such races for several years. So in that regard, we are the actual Hyderabadi winners,” says Rachna, with a wink, adding, “Jokes apart, this race wasn’t about winning or losing for us; it was about doing something adventurous and having fun and we had that in abundance.” 

 So, how did a group of amateurs manage to hold their own in the race that had so many pros participating? “Well, the first thing we did after registration was to divide our jobs. While I was the designated driver, Nirmala was the navigator and Shailja was the team correspondent entrusted with the responsibility of keeping the time and speed ratio intact,” says Rachna.
 The trio started off from Hyderabad early on April 28 and after clocking 400 km in 12 hours, reached Hampi in the evening and halted for the night. “When the results of Day 1 were announced, we’re found ourselves on the 10th position. It was disheartening and we started analysing what went wrong. We figured out what our flaws were and decided to cut as much time as possible on the next day,” says Shailja.
 On Day 2, the team started at around 5:30 am drove nonstop for 12 hours before reaching their destination, Goa. However, this time they didn’t take any breaks and drove nonstop to improve their chances at winning. “Except for answering nature’s call, we didn’t take any breaks. We ate whatever we had in the car and just kept driving,” says Shailja. 
 
 There were however a few anxious moments before the results of Day 2 were announced. “We knew we did well on Day 2, but weren’t sure if was it was good enough. But when the results came out and we found ourselves at the top of the timesheet for that day, we heaved a sigh of relief,” says Rachna. 
 
 The race followed the TSD (Time, Space and Distance) format and when the cumulative results came the next day, the trio fell short by an agonising 1 minute and 45 seconds. But they are upbeat. Having received the prize from   himself, they are already itching for another adventure. “We had such a blast that now, we don’t want to wait for another year to take part in the next edition. I hope they organise a similar event sooner; we will be more than happy to be a part of it,” Nirmala says, adding, “The whole trip also strengthened our bond of friendship. We’ve been friends for 18 years, but this was a first for us. We spent three days together, got to know each other so much better and learnt the art of keeping our cool in the face of adversities. I think that’s our biggest 
 takeaway.”
 
