PANAJI: The high court of Bombay at Goa has held that the police cannot register a second   against an accused after his custodial interrogation leads to seizure of more narcotic   from his rented premises when an FIR was already registered following his arrest for possession of drugs. 

 While granting relief to British national David Johnson, a division bench comprising justices N M Jamdar and Prithviraj Chavan observed that the second FIR registered by the anti-narcotics cell relates to an incident which is part of the same transaction, and, hence, needs to be quashed and set aside. The high court directed the trial court to club both chargesheets together and have the accused face a single composite trial.
 
 “The recovery of contraband at the behest of the petitioner (accused) consequent to his disclosure statement was effected by the respondent no.2 (police officer), and, therefore, it was a part of the same transaction and hence the registration of the impugned FIR was not legal,” the high court observed. 
 
 On March 2, 2017, the ANC conducted a raid at   and arrested Johnson for illegal possession of 17g of MDMA and 32 ecstasy tablets weighing 13g, all approximately worth ₹5,86,000. An FIR was registered against him in this case. While the accused was in custody, he informed police that he had concealed some more narcotic drugs at his rented house. Police searched the premises and found 20g of MDMA, 40g of DMT, and 30g of LSD liquid. After this discovery, police registered a second FIR against him .
 
 After investigation, police filed two separate chargesheets on the basis of the two FIRs. Johnson then approached the high court challenging the second FIR. According to him, the second chargesheet is continuation of investigation under the first FIR. He sought quashing of the second FIR. His lawyer, Narendra Jain, alleged malafides on the part of the investigation agency in registering the second FIR for the same offence. He said that the second FIR is part and parcel of the first FIR, and hence the second FIR required to be quashed.
 
 Public prosecutor S R Rivankar argued that the second FIR and second chargesheet are justified since different contrabands were found in possession of the petitioner at different points of time.
 
 The court noted, “It is not the case of the prosecution that pursuant to information from a third source or from some independent person it had conducted a subsequent raid. Moreover, contraband in both cases was found from the possession of the petitioner as per Section 22 of the   Act in the course of same transaction. It is neither the case of the prosecution that the petitioner was selling, purchasing, transporting, or importing inter-state contraband.”
 
 The court further observed that these aren’t altogether different offences committed at different points of time, because what transpired was that Johnson was already in possession of another set of contraband, the existence of which he disclosed during custodial interrogation. The court further said that it is pertinent to note that the investigating officer in both FIRs is the same. 
 
 
