

 A search on Google for Jaipur shows an image of Amber followed by one of Hawa Mahal. Jaipur, the prettiest city of them all, is famed for its landmarks. Ten years ago, as Jaipur started embracing the world, the inexorable spread of glass and concrete started. The Walled City, both geometrically precise and incredibly chaotic; the fossil remains of a once flowing river; the million temples, big and small; the rugged hills with its scars, have always been defining features of this city. Juxtaposed with the ancient are malls and shopping centres, displaying the finest wares.
 
  
  
 
 Cities keep growing. Places, once held distant, are now thriving urban settlements within the city. The population has also grown many fold. Understandably, the infrastructure requirements too need to be upgraded. With limited resources, it is always a competition between roads and parks, healthcare and education, entertainment and utilities. Striking a balance among competing needs is a complex task that needs the participation of civil society and government in equal measure.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 I would give most of the credit to the people of Jaipur. The parks and the gardens exist because citizens want them to. It is they who flock the Central Park and Jawahar Circle for their morning walks. It is the citizen, who enjoys the ambience of Masala Chowk. The long queues to Madhavendra Palace and smiling children in our new zoo are the best measures of success. Jawahar Kala Kendra’s exciting programming is in perfect harmony with an open-air photo fest; the illumination of Albert Hall complements the lighting in the Walled City. The leopards of Jhalana are Jaipur’s very own. Jaipurites, cultured and discerning, share their treasures with the visitor.
 
  
  
 
 The efforts in art, conservation, culture and tourism space were focused on the visitor having a different and better experience so that he extends his visit and even comes back for more. The tourist is the God. He brings in good cheer and bread to the table. When Amber has footfalls comparable to the Taj, every one of us here feels that extra bit of pride. The city is also a power house of traditions. No wonder, the UNESCO announced Jaipur’s entry in the Creative Cities Network and as a City of Crafts and Folk Art. Who knows what’s next - a World Heritage designation?
  
  
 
 
 And again, continuing with the curious mix of the old and the new, the ‘Safas’ on display near the museum of legacies complement smart street lights. Two command control centres make life safer, monitor environment and enable smart waste collection – our smart citizens deserve no less. Soon, the Dravyavati River front shall offer the much-needed green activity spaces. It has been a wonderful experience seeing this ancient city reinvent itself.
 
  
  
 
 It was 10 years ago in this conservative city, where the dominance of the state language was absolute, The Times of India ventured in with an English publication. It was a courageous step. Today, contrary to many expectations, TOI has survived and grown. It has carved a space, just in the manner the modern has done in this ancient city. Keep growing with Jaipur.
 
