VADODARA: Thousands of students in the city appeared in the   that began on Monday. 

 As anxious parents remained stationed outside the exam centres, students were welcomed at the exam centres with flowers and chocolates offered by political parties, student leaders and social workers alike. Except a couple of centres, the exams for the first paper which was conducted by the Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Board for both science and general stream passed away peacefully. 
 
 The class X students who had appeared in their secondary   held for the first language like Gujarati, English, Hindi found the question papers easy. 
 
 Of the total 43,625 students who had registered for the class X exams, a total of 42,760 students had appeared on Monday with 575 students remaining absent. 
 
 Post noon, students of class 12 appeared for their physics exam which was the first paper for science stream students while those of general stream appeared for their first paper which was on elements of accountancy. 
 
 Before the exams started for class ten students on Monday morning, the exam centre at Baroda High School, Bagikhana witnessed some anxious moments when a couple of students of Maharani School were asked to produce unique identity cards along with their hall tickets. 
 
 Although officials at BHS, Bagikhana were demanding such unique identity cards, students who were appearing at other centres were not being asked to produce any. Later, it was after intervention of officials from the Vadodara district education officer that the confusion surrounding the issue was resolved . 
 
 At an exam centre in Siyabaug area of the old city, parents complained that a DJ being played out near the centre was disturbing the students. 
 
 52 prisoners to appear for exams
 
 This year 52 prisoners of Vadodara Central Jail appeared for board exam which began on Monday. Jail officials said that 35 prisoners appeared for class X exam while for class XII, 17 appeared. Last year, the number of prisoners who had appeared for both class X and XII exams stood at 17.
 
 
