NEW DELHI:   theft remained a challenge for   in 2017 as well. There were 39,080 cases against 36,702 in 2016 — a rise of 6.48%. 

 According to data released by police, around two out of 10   vehicles in 2017 were cars. This was 18% of all vehicles stolen. The percentage for stolen bikes was 61%. 
 
 More than half of the vehicles (55%) were stolen from outside homes and 8% from   areas; 4% of vehicles were stolen from outside religious places; 1% were stolen from outside offices; 10.37% were recovered; and 5,649 vehicle thieves were arrested during the year.
 
 “Among the stolen vehicles, 29,804 were two-wheelers, 7,047 cars and 2,229 other vehicles. 4,053 stolen vehicles were recovered. For every lakh of vehicles, 377.58 were stolen,” special CP (crime) R P Upadhyay said.
 
 Motor vehicle thefts accounted for around 17.52% of the total IPC cases registered in Delhi. According to Upadhyay, the acute shortage of parking space and the general practice of parking vehicles on the roadside, and the unwillingness of a majority of motor vehicle owners to install anti-theft equipment are the major contributing factors to rising cases of vehicle theft. 
 
 Describing the trends identified by police, DCP   said the grey market in other states play a major role in the absorption of stolen vehicles. “Re-registration of stolen vehicles in some states without completion of procedural formalities, and manual maintenance of records by state transport authorities in most states are other contributing factors. Non-availability of a fixed registration numberplate facilitates re-painting in no time,” Verma said.
 
 Delhi Police undertook several initiatives and concrete steps to curb this form of crime. Steps like identification of hot spots, time zones and enhanced deployment in these areas were conducted.
 
 “We put up barriers (nakas) in affected and vulnerable areas. The manufacturers have been requested to install security devices at the factory itself, and the records of stolen vehicles have been computerised for better analysis,” Verma said, adding that steps like sensitising parking attendants and coordinating with insurance agencies are also being taken up.
 
 
