BAREILLY: After   MLA from   Sengar was sent to jail under rape charges, BJP MLA from Bisauli constituency of   district,  , has been accused of raping the daughter of his maid when she was a minor. On Tuesday, the survivor, now 22, filed a complaint with the   senior superintendent of police (SSP).
 
  SSP Kalanidhi Naithani said, “We have initiated an investigation in the matter and appropriate action will be taken very soon.”
 
  
  
  
  The woman said that since the accused had been elected as MLA, her life had become miserable. “We are a very poor family. Since my father is unemployed, my mother works as maid in houses at Green Park locality. She often took me to help her. In 2012, when I was 16, I used to go Sagar’s house along with my mother. I came in contact with him. He started talking to me and even promised to marry me. He took advantage of me and raped me several times from 2012 to 2014,” she said.
  
  “He has ruined my life completely. Now, nobody will marry me. I tolerated all this hoping that one day he would marry me but now he is threatening to kill my family and me if I approach the police,” the woman said. Notably, June 17 has been fixed for Kushagra’s wedding.
  
  Naithani said, “Circle officer Niti Dwivedi has been tasked with the investigation. Dwivedi reached the woman’s house but she was not available. We will take further action in the matter once the investigation report comes.”
  
  Meanwhile, MLA Kushagra said that his political rivals who had ruined his father’s political career now wanted to make a dent in his reputation by hatching a conspiracy against him.
  
  “This woman has already approached the police in 2014 and came to a compromise taking Rs 10 lakh from me. I have a copy of the written compromise. Now, all of a sudden she again levelled false allegations against me before my wedding that is scheduled next month. I am ready to face these charges and even a narco test. Let the probe be completed. Everything will become clear,” Kushagra Sagar said.
  
  Kushagra’s father, former BSP MLA Yogendra Sagar has been in jail on charges of rape and murder. He was booked for raping a woman in 2008. During the proceedings of that case, the government counsel Sadhana Sharma was killed in a road accident and subsequently Yogendra was booked under murder charges in 2016.
