GUNTUR: Tension prevailed in Guntur after members of the Yadav Associations in the state held a spontaneous protests across the district over Hindu leader Shiva Swamy’s remarks against new TTD chairman   on Sunday.

 Activists condemned Shiva Swamy’s remarks who opposed Sudhakar Yadav’s appointment as Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam (TTD) chairman. 
 
 Guntur police detained around 40 protesting people under preventive detention from Undavalli Centre and Tallaya Palem village.
 
 Meanwhile, Guntur urban police also heightened the security at Karakatta Road where chief minister   resides.
 
 Members accused Shiva Swamy of ‘spewing’ venom and inciting communal tensions in the state. Sunday’s development was seen as a counter-protests against the agitations held by Hindu outfits and some political workers at the temple town in Tirupati on Saturday. 
 
 Sources said that they also kept Shiva Swamy under surveillance to prevent any law and order issues. 
 
 Sudhakar Yadav, a close relative of Andhra Pradesh finance minister Yanamala Rama Krishnudu, has been at the eye of a controversy for sometime due to his proximity to some Christian organisations in his native Kadapa district in Rayalaseema region. Sudhakar is opposed by Hindu groups for his regular attendance at annual congregations of a local church for the last few years. 
 
 He has been active in the ruling   for the last few years and had unsuccessfully contested on a party ticket from Mydukur assembly seat in 2014. Later, he was made the party in-charge for the assembly constituency. 
 
 The TTD chairman’s post has been lying vacant since April 27, 2017, when the then incumbent and former TDP MLA   retired. 
 
 Sources reveal that several leading politicians and socialites lobbied for the coveted post, but the chief minister has decided to give it to someone from the other backward classes as Krishna Murthy belonged to the community. Shiva Swamy, a religious head in Tirupati made it clear that he would oppose the appointment of Sudhakar Yadav and would take recourse to legal help if necessary.
 
 
