NOIDA: Serving   in restaurants and pubs indirectly deprives a   of his life, SSP, GB Nagar has told the Allahabad   in reply to a petition filed by a hookah bar owner against whom the expressway   had issued a closure notice on January 22.

 Later the court disposed of the hookah bar owner’s plea, saying that it did not find any reason to intervene in the matter. However, the court directed the district magistrate to look into the entire issue and take a decision if the petitioner submits a detailed representation to him within a period of 10 days from April 10 with all necessary documents.
 
 The owner of Hooter Café and Lounge, Sector 125, had dragged the district administration and the police to court in March claiming that running a hookah bar is a valid activity as “the Cigarette and Other Tobacco Products (Prohibition of Advertisement and Regulation of Trade and Commerce, Production, Supply and Distribution) Act, 2003 nowhere restricts such activity or treats that as an offence.”
 
 Earlier, the court had issued notices to the district magistrate and the SSP, asking them to appear in person on March 20 and explain as to under which statutory provision they had given instructions to the sub inspector of expressway police station to issue the notice to the café.
 
 The notices issued by the police to two cafes in Sector 125 including the Hooter Cafe, asked the owner not to operate the hookah bar which was an “illegal activity.”
 
  The notices warned that in the event of failure to close the activities, there will be no option left but to seize and seal the bar.
 
 In his reply to the court with photographs showing that food was also served in the lounge where school and college students had been sitting, the SSP states that the petitioner’s Hooter Cafe in Raipur village, is within 66 yards of a primary school and a junior high school.
 
 “Petitioner restaurant/café/lounge selling and serving hookah is also in violation of Section 6(b) of the 2003 Act that prohibits sale of tobacco products within 100 yards of any educational institution. Activity of serving hookah and its use in restaurants and pubs is in contravention of the Uttar Pradesh Fire Prevention and Fire Safety Act of 2005,” the affidavit submitted by the SSP states.
 
 “GB Nagar, where these hookah bars are located, have extensive presence of educational institutions and there are approximately 485 primary schools, 600 middle schools and seven universities having lakhs of students. ....that charcoal embers from burning hookah is a grave fire hazard and has reported to have caused huge fire in pubs, restaurants illicitly serving hookah,” the affidavit states.
 
 After the Centre amended the Prohibition of Smoking in Public Places Rules, 2008 on May 23 last year, and incorporated a provision saying that “no service shall be allowed in any smoking area or space provided for smoking,” the district administration had started taking action against hookah bars in Noida.
 
 Ramesh Verma, owner of Hooter Cafe and Lounge told TOI that although he knew the details of the court order, he would comment on it on Monday when he gets a certified copy of the order. 
 
 “If the high court has refused to interfere, the Supreme Court is not far away,” Verma said.
 
 
