GURUGRAM: Two   have accused  , a private school in Gurugram, of making their daughters, both 10 years old, sit on the bare   for 2-3 hours in chilly weather for not paying their tuition  . 

 The school’s principal has denied the charges, claiming the parents had “distorted” actual events to trump up accusations of harassment against the school, which has been in a protracted confrontation with parents and the district administration over fee hike. Last May, the school had closed for a few days after what it described as “unruly” protests by parents on and outside its campus. The principal also claimed that some teachers had received text messages with references to Yamunanagar where a student shot dead the school’s principal in her office. 
 
 The two parents have filed formal complaints against the school — Ravi Kumar with Gurugram police and Ashok Kumar, a Delhi Police sub-inspector, with the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR). 
 
 “Even people accused of crimes are provided with blankets and bed sheets in jail. But some students of of classes III to V, including my daughter, were asked to sit on the floor for 2-3 hours,” Ashok Kumar told this correspondent on Monday. “School authorities want to shame theses children in front of others. It is a shocking act in which children were mentally and physically harassed because of non-payment of fee.”
 
 Ravi Kumar said he filed a complaint at Palam Vihar police station last Friday. Referring to an incident last Christmas, he said in his complaint, “They put all children, including my daughter, who did not pay the fee in a room and made many sit on the floor. This not only caused her (his daughter) physical harm but also left her emotionally and mentally scarred.” The police have sought a reply from the school management. 
 
 The school was called Chiranjeev Bharti when many of its current students took admission. It changed to DPSG (Delhi Public School, Ghaziabad Society) in 2016. This brought in a new management and a new fee structure that many parents were uncomfortable with and started protesting against. “We got to know that the school was bought over and the fee was increased. I made many appeals and requests to the principal and management seeking a rollback to no avail. My daughter had fallen ill on December 25. She told us despite the cold weather, she was made to sit on the floor with some other children who not pay fees,” Ravi Kumar alleged. 
 
 DPSG principal Deepika Sharma said no such punishment had been meted out to the kids. “The children were practising for a cultural function. The matter is being distorted,” she said. “The parents had threatened our teachers. They had sent texts asking teacher if they had forgotten the Yamunanagar incident. The allegations against us are totally false. We did not mete out any such punishment to children.” 
 
 Vikram Nehra, SHO of Palam Vihar police station, said an investigation would be conducted once the school replied. “We have sought the school management’s response as well as CCTV footage from the school campus,” Nehra said. 
 
 (With inputs from Shakir Mir)
 
 
