AHMEDABAD: Bajrang Dal leader   has was nailed in the 2002   massacre case, mainly because of his bragging before a spy camera.

 The irony for Bajrangi is that Gujarat high court has not admitted the electronic evidence — footage from the sting operation conducted on him and a few others accused in the   — but he and two others, Suresh Langdo alias Richard Didawala and Prakash Rathod, have been held guilty of criminal conspiracy and condemned to 21-year jail terms mainly because they were caught bragging about their crimes during a sting-operation conducted on them.
 
  Bajrangi, Rathod and Didawala described in detail to journalist Ashish Khetan in 2002, who filmed them on a spy camera, how they had gone about forcefully collecting arms and inflammables a day before the violence and how they killed people. 
 
 This graphic description, termed an extra-judicial confession, coupled with Khetan’s testimony as an “unbiased witness, who is not even remotely inimical to the accused”, proved disastrous for them.
 
 “If the extra-judicial confession appears to be true and credible it can be made the sole basis of conviction,” the HC has observed.
 
 The HC refused to believe Bajrangi’s defence that he was reading a pre-written script before the camera with the observation that the accused had no idea about the camera present there.
 
 If not for the bragging, the HC had found that from witness testimonies that Bajrangi’s involvement in the massacre was limited only to his presence on the road outside the Naroda Patia locality. He was not found involved in the violence that took place in the chawls and at other places inside, where the 97 deaths occurred. The HC has not accepted the testimonies of six Muslim witnesses, terming them “not credible”, but accepted the statements of four cops, whose versions do not show him to be involved in the gruesome violence, but only in inciting the mob.
 
 The HC also noted that police did not conduct the test identification parade, which is mandatory in criminal procedure, in Bajrangi’s case. Moreover, the HC has “found it hazardous to rely upon their (six Muslim witnesses’) testimonies as far as Babu Bajrangi is concerned”.
 
 
