MUMBAI: The   has increased its budget by 8% this year, mainly to kickstart a slew of infrastructure projects, but it has left municipal taxes unchanged, opting to dip into its own reserves for the first time for the city’s development.

 The commissioner of the country’s richest civic body,  , presented a budget of Rs 27,258 crore for Mumbai for the financial year 2018-19 on Friday, projecting an increase of more than Rs 2,000 crore over 2017-18, but still short of the Rs 37,000 crore figure announced the year before.
 
 Among key initiatives mentioned in the proposals are a 39-km cycling track along the Tansa water mains, floating barriers to keep garbage out of the city’s rivers and streams, and a public-private partnership model for civic schools.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Underscoring the need to improve BMC’s financial health, the commissioner expressed concern over the drop in revenue from various sources including property tax. To meet expenses, the civic body now plans to withdraw Rs 2,744 crore from its fixed deposits of Rs 69,135 crore.
 
 “Revenue income has become primarily dependent on the growth of the real estate sector. Therefore from the next financial year we will have to resort to withdrawal from special reserves funds created from time to time,” said the civic body chief.
 
 To augment revenue, Mehta has also proposed a revision of charges for factory permits, license fees for wholesale markets and fees for treatment at civic hospitals. He said such measures were necessary as spending on basic civic services had increased.
 
 As usual, a sizeable chunk of the expenditure in the coming year is earmarked for roads and storm water drains—total allocation for public works is Rs 9,522 crore, of which the Coastal Road gets Rs 1,500 crore and the Goregaon-Mulund Link Road (GMLR) Rs 100 crore although environmental clearance for GMLR seems unlikely anytime soon.
 
 In all, the allocation for the roads department has increased to Rs 1,202 crore from Rs 1079 crore last year, and for storm water drains, it is Rs 566 crore, up from Rs 446 crore last year. 
 
 “As far as roads and storm water drains are concerned, as compared to allocations made last year, more funds are being sought,” said Mehta.
 
 Another area of focus is flooding: 146 vulnerable spots were identified during the torrential downpour on August 29 last year. The BMC plans to deal with 55 of them before the coming monsoon. In a first, a special allocation of Rs 54 crore has been made to control flooding.
 
 Another interesting initiative is an allocation of Rs 100 crore for a cycling and jogging track parallel to the Tansa water pipeline to create an alternative mode of transport. The track will connect several railway, metro and monorail stations.
 
 Reacting to the overall plan,   leader in the BMC Yashwant Jadhav expressed satisfaction at the budget. “Many of the proposals are for the benefit of the public,” he said.
 
  leader in the BMC Rais Shaikh said it was good in spirit, “but while focusing on implementation, one shouldn’t run out of creativity and not propose anything new”. “Though no new taxes have been proposed, the corporation has a blanket approval for increasing various charges every year,” he said.
 
 
