MELBOURNE: Power isn’t physical; it’s state of the mind. Ask Argentina’s Diego Schwartzman, 5 ft 7’, who kicked and clawed on the   Arena. Ask  , the world No.1, who resisted for the first half of his near 4-hour fourth round clash, then went on to demonstrate that offense is the new defense.

 
 ALSO READ: 
 
 
 Nadal, had his hands full with the 26th-ranked Schwartzman, who was hitting the spots with his serve, he had 12 aces in the match and his ground game sparkled under the afternoon sun. But the Spaniard, a master of the end game, picked at his peppermint pink shorts, ran his blistered hand over his face and stepped closer to the line. He lifted his game, pulling off pivotal points to score a 6-3, 6-7 (4-7), 6-3, 6-3 win in 3 hours 51 minutes to move into the   quarterfinals.
 
 ALSO READ: 
 
 
 Both men had 18 break point opportunities in the fourth-round clash, Schwartzman, 25, converted three, all in the second set. Nadal, looking for his second Melbourne Park major to become the first man in the Open era to win each of the four Grand Slam titles twice, converted seven.
 
 
 
 Third-seeded   worked his way past Nick Kyrgios 7-6 (7-3), 7-6 (7-4), 4-6, 7-6 (7-4) in a cracker of a contest that went 3 hours and 26 minutes to move into the quarterfinals. Dimitrov, did well to shut out the home crowd early in the match in which Kyrgios sent down 36 aces. A close affair, keenly fought the Bulgarian won just one point more than his opponent in the total count (157-156).
 
 “Playing Nick is always tricky, two weeks ago I lost to him. You have to stay locked in and take every opportunity that comes your way,” Dimitrov said. “You have to always be alert when playing him, he had a couple of huge second serves, over 200 (kmph).”
 
 In the last eight the world No.3 will play Briton Kyle Edmund, who put out Italy’s   6-7 (4-7), 7-5, 6-2, 6-3 in just under 3-hours.
 
 Nadal, stunned and stirred in equal measure by the spirited Schwartzman, said he suffered in the conditions. “I didn’t play as aggressive as I did last couple of days. I was suffering more. Conditions were not easy this afternoon. Very humid. Sometimes it’s tougher for the body, less hot but more humidity.”
 
 The 16-time major winner, who failed to hold on to the three breaks of serve he had in the second set, said the marathon contest may have prepped him mentally going into the second week of the major, but he’d have preferred a straight-set affair for his body.
 
 Nadal will play the towering 6 ft 6’  , the sixth-seeded Croat, in the round of eight. The 29-year-old, the 2014 US Open champion, had to work to beat Pablo Carreno Busta 6-7 (2-7), 6-3, 7-6 (7-0), 7-6 (7-3) for this 100th Grand Slam match win. Cilic has won just one of the pair’s six meetings with Nadal coming out on top in their two encounters in 2017 in Shanghai and Acapulco, both on hardcourts.
 
 Cilic, in his second Australian Open quarterfinals, said after picking up his 100th win, that he doesn’t just weigh his career with wins and losses, but rather looks at the road. Cilic, sharp in his court coverage, especially for someone who is 6 ft 6, has a slightly tinkered serve, and is looking to play more aggressively.
 
 His major win showed him he reason had to believe, it was the proof of the pudding. In a women’s fourth round clash Belgium’s Elise Mertens beat Croatia Petra Martic 7-6 (5), 7-5.
 
