CHANDIGARH:   Award-winning theatre personality   describes her professional journey as ‘lonely’ and one which has been filled with difficulties. After she got married,   said she was told that being from a respectable family, how did she get into theatre. So, each time she would come up with a different story. At times, she told she is going out to teach students. However, one day the internationally acclaimed theatre director realised that if she didn’t respect what she was doing, she cannot expect anyone else to respect the art.

 “All my life, I have had conducted rehearsals in the house. I taught at the university for 25 years. At 2pm, my kids would come back from school and then they would hang around the place where I conducted rehearsals,” said Chowdhry, who was at the   of Open Learning ( ) to celebrate International Women’s Day on Thursday.
 
 The thespian said that in most Punjabi middle-class families, one could pursue theatre as a hobby but not as a career. The possibility of making theatre a profession was beyond imagination.
 
 “When I first started doing theatre as a student, I was excited about the world of possibilities. My interest was sincere but it was not based on the real understanding of what it is meant to be a part of the world of drama and performance. The word art was floating around my mind, but I had no idea about the contours of the business when I, as a student arrived in Chandigarh in the 70s to study the history of art at Panjab University,” said the   awardee.
 
 Recalling her journey, Chowdhry said, “I still remember the night I decided that theatre was my true calling. The National School of Drama (NSD) was coming to perform in Chandigarh and I volunteered to help. The two productions that I saw paralyzed with excitement. I joined NSD without the awareness of what drama meant.”
 
 Chowdhry said it was theatre director   (also NSD’s director from 1962–1977) who defined the aesthetics of theatre to her. “He made me realise that working in theatre was not like joining a hobby class. He introduced me to theatre as a profession, which required as much seriousness, labour and commitment as one would need to become a doctor or a lawyer.” 
 
 
