Panaji/Keri: If Karnataka goes ahead with its Kalsa diversion project and 11 other proposals in the region considered as one of the biggest wildlife corridors, especially for the tiger, it may prove disastrous for vast tracts of protected areas with dense forests and endemic biodiversity.

 Karnataka’s projects, which will submerge an estimated area of 3,165.22 hectares in the lap of the Sahyadris, are likely to have a damaging impact on the nearby Bhimgad wildlife sanctuary, Sharavathy-Khanapur corridor in the Belagavi district and the Mhadei wildlife sanctuary in Goa. The other protected areas in Goa — Mollem National Park, Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and Bondla Wildlife Sanctuary in the foothills of the Western Ghats — are contiguous areas of the inter-state wildlife corridor.
 
 “The dense and healthy forests in the Mhadei Wildlife Sanctuary, along with those of Netravali, Mollem, Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and Cotigao Wildlife sanctuary of Goa, the reserved forests of Sindhudurg district and the Anshi and Dandeli tiger reserves make this area one of the largest contiguous areas after the Nagarahole and Bandipur areas for large cats as well as for elephant movement and breeding,” Goa has stated in its submission before the Mhadei water dispute tribunal.
 
 Karnataka’s catchment area of Mhadei river, which originates in the heavy rainfall and mountainous region of Degaon across Goa’s border, measures approximately 200sqkm. The river is a lifeline for not only Goa, but the forest and wildlife in these sanctuaries. 
 
 The central government has recommended that Goa declare Mhadei Wildlife Sanctuary as a tiger reserve. Conservationists and others have been long suggesting that the state carve out a 755sqkm tiger reserve in Goa’s territory, comprising its protected areas. This along a 100-km border with Karnataka could help not only Goa, but the water security of the region covering all three states, including Maharashtra.
 
 “Declaration of this tiger reserve (Mhadei, Mollem, Netravali and Cotigao protected areas) will also ensure protection to the catchment areas of important rivers like Mhadei (Goa), Malaprabha (Karnataka) and Tillari (Maharashtra), and will help in ensuring continuous water availability for the three states,” former dean of Wildlife Institute of India A J T Johnsingh had stated in a recent report to Goa government.
 
 Environmental activists from various states have pointed out that this is a unique and strategic region of around 8,000sqkm with borders of three states overlapping. Considering the endemic and endangered species in this biodiversity hotspot of the world, they had been long demanding that the region be declared as a Sahyadri Ecologically Sensitive Area (SESA).
 
 “What the Mhadei project is set to do is permanently destroy an area rich in biodiversity, which ranks second in India after Sundarbans and eighth in the world as the finest tiger habitat and is home to many species of flora and fauna, including endangered Wroughton’s Freetailed Bat and Theobald’s Tomb Bat,” Goa stated in its plea before the tribunal.
 
 The Western Ghats Ecology Expert Panel (WGEEP) headed by ecologist Madhav Gadgil designated the entire Western Ghats, including Mhadei basin, as eco-sensitive zones of varying sensitivity. Goa has opposed 12 projects proposed by Karnataka and others in Maharashtra, aimed at effecting trans basin transfer of water. 
 
 “These would result in a complete disaster of aquatic life, marine life, and terrestrial ecology,” Goa has pleaded before the tribunal.
 
 
