PATIALA: The father of Jessica Doody (24), an autsitic   woman who had gone missing from her home in Christchurch on March 14 and was traced to  , has filed a police complaint against her boyfriend, Gurdeep Singh, alleging that he was constantly harassing her and prompting suicidal tendencies in her. 

 Jessica was later traced to Gurdeep's house in Patiala, after she travelled on a changed name to India as there were travel restrictions on her flying out of the country without her mother or sister. A friend of Gurdeep helped the girl change her name and get a new passport to travel to India. In a complaint to the Punjab DGP and Patiala SSP, Craig Doody claimed that his daughter's condition had gone from bad to worse after she had returned to New Zealand as Gurdeep was harassing her. 
 
 "He (Garry) was exerting a lot of mental pressure on Jessica and she was going through a mental trauma and distress, and was unable to differentiate between what was right and wrong," he wrote in the complaint.
 
 He claimed that Garry was asking Jessica to return New Zealand $10,000 that his father paid to Punjab Police to stop her from being arrested and sent back to New Zealand. Naming a senior Punjab Police official in his complaint, Craig claimed that Garry told Jessica that his father paid the money to the officer to thwart all his efforts to take her back. 
 
 "Garry is asking Jessica to send money to him as his father needs it. He is also asking Jessica to get him to NZ to restore his family's dignity in the community."
 
 In his complaint, Craig said Jessica was autistic and suffering from dyspraxia, and was now under constant pressure, leading her to a point where she had become suicidal. He said the family had to watch her round-the-clock.
 
 Garry's father, Bhagwant Singh, when contacted, denied the charges. 
 
 He said his son changed his mobile phone number long ago and was not in touch with the woman. "We have already opposed his relationship with the woman as we do not want any trouble," he said. Patiala SSP S Boopathi said they had received a complaint and the matter was being looked into by the NRI wing of the police.
 
 
