MUMBAI: In the midst of a tough South African tour,   had something to cheer about on Thursday. The Indian skipper dominated the   annual awards, clinching both the cricketer and captain of the year honours.

 Kohli received the Sir   Trophy for cricketer of the year - the second Indian in succession after R Ashwin had got it last year - and ODI cricketer of the year award. Kohli was also named the captain of both the ICC's Test and ODI teams of the year, having led India to the top of the ICC Test rankings. 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 It means a lot to win the Sir Garfield Sobers Trophy and also the ICC ODI player of the rear. I won that (ODI Player of the Year award) backin 2012 alsobut it's thefirsttime (I'm) winning the Garfield Sobers Trophy and it's a huge honour for me. It's probably the biggest of all in world cricket and two Indians getting it back-to-back makes it more special," Kohlisaid.
 
 Apart from Kohli, there were four other Indians who were picked in the ICC's Test and ODI Teams of the Year. While the Test team featured   and  ,   and Rohit Sharma found a place in the ODI side.
 
  
  
 
 Surprisingly, Kohli pipped Australian skipper   for the ICC's Test team captaincy. Smith had led his team to a dominating 4-0 win over England in the Ashes.
 
 Smith, however, claimed the Test Player of the Year award after scoring 1,875 runs in 16 matches at an average of 78.12, with eight hundreds and five 50s.
 
  
  
 Kohli became the first non-South African since 2013 to win the ODI Cricketer of the Year award. Quinton de Kock received the accolade for 2016 and AB de Villiers won it in 2014 and 2015. Smith, meanwhile, beat off competition from last year's winner Ashwin, who took 111 wickets at 25.87, Cheteshwar Pujara, who scored 1,914 runs, Kohli and Ben Stokes, who hit1,000 runs at 40.00 and took 35 wickets at 27.68. Among other awards, Yuzvendra Chahal's incredible haul of six for 25 against England in Bengaluru last year, was named as Twenty20 International performance of the year.
 
 
 
 Kohli has become only the second India batsman after Sunil Gavaskar to reach the 900- point mark in thelatestICCPlayer Rankings for Test batsmen Gavaskar had achieved the milestone in his 50th Test when he scored 13 and 221 at The Oval in 1979 to jump from 887 points to 916 points, which remainedhiscareer-best.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Virat Kohli 
 
 
 Steve Smith 
 
 
 Virat Kohli 
 
 
 Hasan Ali 
 
 
 Rashid Khan 
 
 
 Yuzvendra Chahal 
 
 
 Marais Erasmus 
 
 
 Anya Shrubsole (England) 
 
 
 Pakistan stun India to win the ICC Champions Trophy 2017 
 
 
 Virat Kohli (captain) (India), Dean Elgar (South Africa), David Warner (Australia), Steve Smith (Australia), Cheteshwar Pujara (India), Ben Stokes (England), Quinton de Kock (wicketkeeper) (South Africa), Ravichandran Ashwin (India), Mitchell Starc (Australia), Kagiso Rabada (South Africa), James Anderson (England).
 
 
 Virat Kohli (captain) (India), David Warner (Australia), Rohit Sharma (India), Babar Azam (Pakistan), AB de Villiers (South Africa), Quinton de Kock (wicketkeeper) (South Africa), Ben Stokes (England), Trent Boult (New Zealand), Hasan Ali (Pakistan), Rashid Khan (Afghanistan), Jasprit Bumrah (India).
 
