CHANDIGARH:   MLAs on Tuesday sold 'pakoras' (vegetable fritters) on a street close the state assembly to protest against "rising unemployment". The protest went on for half an hour before the house opened for the question hour on the second day of the budget session. 

 The party has been holding similar protests in other states, including Kerala, Chhattisgarh and Karnataka, after PM  's 'pakora' remark.
 
 The protest, which was held on the roundabout between sectors 3, 4, 10, and 9, led to disruption of traffic for half an hour. 
 
 "Narendra Modi and chief minister   have humiliated the unemployed in the state and the country. Instead of creating employment opportunities, the government has asked the educated youth to sell 'pakoras'," said   legislature party (CLP) leader Kiran Choudhry.
 
 The protest also had the   in a tizzy. The   reached the assembly premises in their cars. Palwal MLA Karan Singh Dalal had brought vend of pakoras along with his car. 
 
 Police intercepted his car and stopped him from moving ahead. Dalal got down and Congress MLAs rushed to him and started raising slogans. MLAs put up boards carrying slogans and 'menu card' with rates of 'Modi pakora', 'Amit Shah pakora,' 'Vij pakora' and 'Khattar pakora'.
 
 Interestingly, as Congress leaders were busy offering 'pakoras' to passersby, CM Manohar Lal Khattar, who was on his way to attend the session, stopped his cavalcade and got down from his vehicle. Khattar even purchased a small quantity of 'pakoras' from the Congress MLAs.
 
 "If anyone is getting employment by selling 'pakoras', then it is a good thing. They have become unemployed, now they have got the 'pakora' selling job, which is a good thing," Khattar said taking a swipe at the Congress legislators.
 
  "We respect the gesture by the Congress MLAs. It could be a mode of protest but we also respect the dignity of pakora vendors. Congress has humiliated roadside vendors. 
 
 They have an elitist mentality and cannot tolerate 'chaiwalas' and 'pakorawalas'," said cabinet minister Om Parkash Dhankar.
 
 After staging protest for half an hour, Congress MLAs walked towards assembly house while raising anti-BJP slogans. 
 
 Inside the House, health minister Anil Vij told the Congress legislators in a lighter vein that his department will get the 'pakoras' checked for quality.
 
 
