Madurai: The banks surrounded by paddy fields were once play area for children. When thirsty, they used to dig a bit and scoop out pure water from the channel. This is how 48-year-old K Panchavarnam from   area in Sellur remembers the Panthalkudi channel.

 The channel she now points to is covered in garbage and the stench unbearable. But Panchavarnam still lives on the banks of Panthalkudi channel, clutching to fond memories, putting up with the smell and swarm of mosquitoes rising from the channel.
 
 Panthalkudi channel, currently the major sewage carrier of the city, originates from   acting as its flood sluice – a system where excess water flows towards River Vaigai. Sellur tank is the last of the irrigation tank in the chain into which water flows from Sathaiyaru reservoir located on the Sirumalai foothills.
 
 From Sathaiyaru reservoir, water fills one tank after the other, including Sambakulam, Anaiyur and Thathaneri, finally emptying into Sellur tank from where it flows into River Vaigai through the Panthalkudi channel.
 
 When paddy fields disappeared some decades ago, giving way to urbanization, the channel that used to carry potable water turned a sewage carrier. “The channel is 2.5 kilometers long. For the last three decades or so, the channel now carries sewage and is a major health hazard,” said resident A Balu.
 
 R Abu Bucker of Neernilaigal Pathukattu Kuzhu (Water bodies  ) at   accused the Madurai corporation of being the major offender. “Discharge from households can’t contribute to so much sewage flowing in the channel. Untreated water is let out from pumping stations”, he alleged. The pumping station at Sathiamoorthy 6th street is one among them.
 
 A quick walk along the channel showed there was no discharge from Sellur tank, which is partially full. There is no flow in the first 500 meters either. A thick growth of reed and hyacinths cover the channel where purple moorhens from the wild and country chicken roam freely. Half way through Meenambalpuram, it becomes a steady flow of sewage. When the channel takes a curve at Narimedu, it is full flow of sewage slush and accumulates heavily at FF Road with a nauseating whiff of stench.
 
 Along the banks of this channel is Sri Meenakshi Government College for Women. As the sewage flows freely nearby, the stench is inevitable, said a few girl students walking out of the college. It gets worse during monsoon and winter months when mosquitoes swarm the nearby areas, they said.
 
 Few yards away from River Vaigai in Alwarpuram, it’s a free-flow of untreated sewage of underground drainage of Alwarpuaram into River Vaigai. “It comes from Alwarpuram area as sewage lines get clogged and flows into the streets. It is a temporary arrangement of the corporation to manage this problem, letting sewage into channel,” commented a nearby vendor, not willing to be named. 
 
 It is not just sewage, indiscriminate dumping of solid waste is another problem. Local residents complained that corporation garbage vehicles don’t come regularly to their area to pick up household trash. So the channel is a free for all to dump their waste including mounds of plastics. Local residents too are guilty of polluting the water body.
 
 “A lot of new settlements have come up and this channel is dumping yard for entire area. If we object, it ends in a quarrel. For people who grew up on these banks, it is painful to see the channel in such a condition,” Panchavarnam added.
 
