Life came a full circle for city boy Ashish Chopra earlier this month when he was declared runner-up in the Mr Gay World India competition held at Delhi. The 23 year-old views the trophy as a stamp of finality for his convictions and sexual preferences.  Currently working for a IT major in a metro city, Chopra shares with TOI his experiences of growing up in Nagpur with the knowledge that he was “different” than most.  Excerpts from an interview... Q. Do you still remember the exact moment when you were convinced about being gay? A. Well, I always knew I was gay but I was definitely convinced about it when I saw Hritik Roshan in a movie. It’s like how straight people are attracted towards the opposite sex, we too are pretty clear about our preferences right from the start. It’s a completely natural instinct.  Q. So there was never any confusion? A. Maybe when I was a kid, yes. I thought there was something wrong with me because I always liked to play hand ball with girls and not football with guys. And because of this a lot of my friends used to make fun of me.  Q. In school were you singled out? A. At that time I had never mentioned to anyone that I was gay, but my schoolmates probably sensed I was different. I was physically and mentally harassed when I was in school. Always bullied, made fun of and called names. Frankly, it was quiet a traumatic experience for me. But that part of my life has made me a stronger person now.  Q. What was your family’s reaction when you told them about being gay? A. When in I was in college I told my brother about my sexual preferences and he, in turn, informed my mother. Initially, it was a bit of a struggle because she wasn't ready to accept that and there were some very awkward conversations. But she eventually came to terms with it and has been very supportive of me. In fact, when I took part in the Mr Gay World India competition, my mother asked many friends and relatives to vote for me. My father is still not on board about this yet.  Q. Though you haven’t been living in Nagpur for last four years, how do friends here react to your coming out? Because with this trophy, it’s public knowledge.  A. Everyone has had exactly the same ‘blah’ reaction, which is very surprising for me because I love drama. I thought they'll start screaming out ‘nahi, aisa nahi ho sakta’" and other filmy dialogues but luckily nobody overreacted. I guess it did not come as a shock because I have always been very vocal about my sexuality on social media as well. Q. What does the runner-up trophy for Mr Gay World India mean to you? A. It is way more than a trophy. I'm getting a lot of respect and love. People are finding out more about the LGBT community and started talking about it. Also, I want to be an inspiration to more guys like me, to stand up for our rights. This is how conversations are starting up and it is being normalized. Like my soliciting votes for me is how the conversation about this topic gets started.  Q. Are these fairly easier times to be open about being gay? 20-30 years earlier it would have been very tough to find acceptance?  A. Times have really changed. It is way too easy now to come out as more and more parents are accepting homosexuality because, now they know that it isn't something wrong and is absolutely normal. 20-30 years back there wasn't enough awareness which is there now. Q. But has Nagpur changed?  A. Nagpur is more than ready to accept people with different sexual preferences without prejudice. And why not? Because we are there. People have to get used to it. We won't just disappear. And funnily, there's probably something right in the air of this city because it is producing way too many homosexuals! Nagpur has had their 2nd Pride parade this year already. 