VADODARA: Six members of a family from Madhya Pradesh were killed in a road   near Rangpur village bus stand in   district on Wednesday.

 
 Mohansinh Bhilala (42),   (38), Ronak Bhilala (11), Divyansh Bhilala (8),   (40) and Golu Bhilala (22) died on the spot after their car and a truck going toward Madhya Pradesh crashed into each other on the narrow two-lane highway. Shobha’s daughter  , who received serious injuries, was rushed to Chhota Udepur general hospital. The driver of the truck fled from the spot after the accident. 
 
 Police said the family was coming to the city for treatment of Ronak at a hospital from Ambada village in Madhya Pradesh. “Eyewitnesses told us that both the vehicles were in speed. The drivers lost control when a stray dog ran on to the highway which made them crash into each other,” said G N Parmar, in-charge police sub-inspector, Rangpur police station. He said the police will try to find out how exactly the accident took place.
 
 A case of rash driving and causing death due to negligence was registered against the unidentified truck driver at Rangpur police station.
 
 The villagers removed the bodies and informed the police about the accident. Parmar said with the help of villagers, they cleared the highway and shifted the bodies for post-mortem. The family members of the deceased rushed to Chhota Udepur and the bodies were handed over to them.
 
 Police said Mohansinh was a gram sevak in his village.
 
 Family’s luggage stolen
 
 The deceased family’s luggage was stolen by some miscreants from their car, sources said. Their mobile phones were also missing when the bodies were shifted for post-mortem. However, the staff of 108 GVK EMRI returned Rs8,130 cash and the ATM cards found on the deceased to their family members.
 
 12 fatal accidents in six months
 
 Police said the highway connecting Rangpur and Madhya Pradesh has witnessed 12 fatal road accidents in the last six months. Heavy vehicles coming from Madhya Pradesh were in high speed on the narrow highway and this had led to the accidents, cops said.
 
 
