MUMBAI: The   on Monday allowed   across Maharashtra to exercise their newly-conferred power to sanction felling of up to 25 trees, subject to certain riders. They also have to ensure that the power is not used for “circumventing” the law, the court said.

 The interim order was passed on petitions by activists Zoru Bhathena for Mumbai and Rohit Joshi for Thane, challenging the constitutional validity of an amendment to the   that allows the municipal commissioner to permit up to 25 trees to be cut. Beyond 25, it will go before the  .
 
 A bench of Justices Abhay Oka and Riyaz Chagla said prima facie “we find there is merit in the challenges to the constitutional validity of Section 8 (6) of the Act”. “In the present case, we have found that the classification of applications in respect of less than 26 and more than 25 is itself arbitrary,” the bench said. On the plea for a stay, the bench preferred to place   “to avoid any misuse of the power”.
 
 The judges said the commissioners will have to take the advice and assistance of in-house or external experts before taking a decision to fell trees. The decision will also have to be first published on the civic website and in newspapers and not be implemented for three weeks. “This will give an opportunity to citizens to challenge the decision,” they added. The bench clarified that this embargo will not apply where the municipal commissioner has found that the trees pose a danger to life and property.
 
 The judges said as far Section 3 (4), where the municipal commissioner can act as the tree authority in absence of it, “the power can be exercised only in case of emergency and exceptional cases...and not in a routine manner by substituting himself in place of tree authority”.
 
 In the Thane case, the bench directed the commissioner to place the subject of its reconstitution before the Thane Municipal Corporation’s general body. The judges said the decision taken by authority on October 17, 2017, permitting cutting of 1,537 trees and to transplant 3,789 others is ex-facie illegal and cannot be implemented till disposal of  . If the tree authority is properly constituted, it can deal with the applications as if on that date, they added.
 
 
