Bengaluru: At the height of dissidence in the 2008 BJP regime, the Ballari   hogged the limelight by showing a united front in their fiefdom. Such was the show of strength, thanks to their thriving mining business, that all three brothers landed plump ministerial and board chairman postings.

 While the oldest, G Karunakara Reddy, became revenue minister, G Janaradhana Reddy became tourism minister and the youngest, G Somashekara Reddy, became chairman of the Karnataka Milk Federation.
 
 Cut to 2018, and the situation has changed dramatically. 
 
 After the taint of being caught in the illegal mining scam, the brothers went into political oblivion. However, over the past two years, there’s been a revival of political fortunes of two brothers. 
 
 To erase the taint of illegal mining, BJP national president Amit Shah, during his recent visit to Mysuru, clarified that the party has nothing to do with prime accused Janardhana Reddy. However, party sources said Karunakara and Somashekar have been prepped to contest from Harapanahalli and Bellary City. Both have decided to campaign and hope to bag tickets.
 
 “The two brothers stayed away from their sibling in public. They’re eligible to contest,” said a senior BJP leader.
 
 As the Reddy brothers gear up for elections, the BJP tried to keep Karunakara and Somashekara away from rallies to avoid public scrutiny. Karunakara Reddy told TOI: “When the national president has spoken about it (distancing from Janardhana), I wouldn’t like to talk about it. There’s no question of Janardhana campaigning on my behalf in Harapanahalli.”
 
 Karunakara said he hoped to get the ticket from Harapanahalli, which he nurtured as his constituency for the past 13 years. “I’ve been associated with the party for the past 22 years. The party knows my organisational skills and my dedication. I’m confident of securing the Harapanahalli ticket,” he said.
 
 Asked about Somashekara getting a ticket from Hagaribommanahalli, the former BJP revenue minister said: “I have my own constituency to deal with. I’m not aware of his chances.”
 
 Meanwhile, a campaigning Somashekara said the response has been quite good. “Since I was never involved in any illegal mining, I’m untouched by it. I’m confident of the party giving me the ticket,” he said.
 
 Asked if Janardhana would campaign for him, Somashekara said: “That question will have to be posed to my brother. He is free and fine. We’ll consider his future at a later date.”
 
 
