BATHINDA: The 10-day-long farmers’ protest for implementation of   committee recommendations about fixing MSPs of various crops and waiving farm loans, turned nasty on third day on Sunday when the farmers stopped milkmen from supplying milk and spilled it at many places in Bathinda and   district.

 The farmers did so after forcibly snatching it from milkmen at   and   villages in Bathinda district and Sardulgarh town in Mansa district. The milkmen complained of not being allowed to distribute milk at Pitho and Mandi Kalan villages in Bathinda district. The milkmen held protest at Rampura Phul police station. Activists of farmer organisation   held nakas at various places across Bathinda and Mansa to keep an eye on milkmen in order to stop them from going towards cities.
 
 Milk dairy owner Manpreet Singh of   village said that, “I have a dairy at Lehra Mohabbat. I was loading milk in my Tavera when some activists of farmer organisation BKU Sidhupur came to our dairy and took away 2.70 quintals of milk and 12kg cheese. They also damaged the vehicle”.
 
 Another milkman Paramjit Singh said that my milk was spilled on road at Pitho village. The same happened at Mandi Kalan and Jeond villages. He alleged that the farmers also threatened a vegetable vendor at Rampura and damaged his vehicle on which he was taking vegetables to sell. The farmers also stopped milkmen at Bibiwala village and a tractor trolley full of vegetables at Mansa and threw the vegetables.
 
 Later, the milkmen assembled at Rampura Phul police station and held a protest. They demanded action against farmer union activists and security so that they could supply milk to their customers in towns.
 
 The BKU Sidhupur state president,  , said that our activists were not quarrelling with anyone but only persuading milkmen and farmers to not take their products to cities but sell these at villages and customers will come to them in villages. “Our activists are not forcing anyone or causing any loss to milkmen,” he added.
 
 
