HYDERABAD: Chemistry, turned out to be a tough nut to crack for candidates who appeared for Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Advanced on Sunday with many terming it as lengthy and hard.

 
 Candidates said that physical chemistry had lengthy calculations and added that some passage questions in organic chemistry were difficult.
 
 
  
 
 They said unlike what transpired in the last few years, there were not many theoretical questions in chemistry. This year, about 18,000 candidates from the state appeared for the JEE Advanced examination at various centres in Hyderabad, Karimnagar, Khammam, Mahabubnagar, Nizamabad and  .
 
 Several candidates said that paper 1was comparatively easier than paper 2 and the overall difficulty of the examination was said to be moderate.
 
 “I was able to attempt all questions, expect one in mathematics paper 2 in the today’s examination. While maths and physics papers were lengthy, chemistry had a lot of calculation. I could manage to complete both papers on time,” said  , who secured all India second rank in JEE Main exam. He gave wrong answers to one question each in maths and chemistry, he said, and was doubtful about one question in physics.
 
 Another candidate  , who secured all India first rank in JEE Main exam said that for him paper 2 was easier than paper 1.
 
 “I don’t know about other candidates, but I found paper 2 to be comparatively easier. Paper 1 was very lengthy for me. Maths was the hardest, followed by chemistry and physics, which also had negative numbers and decimals in answers.
 
 Another area, which troubled candidates this year is a section with numerical-based questions and conic session.
 
 “Generally, numerical-based questions have numericals (0 to 9) as answers. But this year, students were asked to give answers with decimal points, which made it bit difficult for students,” said  , academic director, Sri Chaitanya Group. He said that students were confused with twothree questions in maths and chemistry. Venkata Ramana, head of JEE exam, TIME Institute, Hyderabad said that presence of matrix question in maths paper 2 made the paper bit difficult.
 
