CHANDIGARH: The day in Sector 38 West starts with a foul smell from Dadumajra’s ill-maintained garbage-processing plant and the night begins with insecurity because of the surrounding slums.

 During a   meeting in the area on Saturday as part of the ‘TOI In Conversation’ series, representatives of eight local resident welfare associations (RWAs) said the stink was the biggest issue, about which they were tired complaining to the authorities concerned for the past more than two years. These Eight   have joined hands to get these issues resolved.
 
  president Dr K S Chaudhary said the day was not far when the residents will have various health problems because of the foul smell, for which he blamed a “mismanaged garbage collection and treatment”. The civic body inaugurated a community centre in the sector three months ago but the facility is unavailable to the public because of a tiff with the area councillor. Residents said even the centre’s gym was not open to public yet, even though it was built with public money.
 
 RWA executive member Jaswant Rai Wadhwa said the residents’ couldn’t hold Republic Day and Lohri functions in the community centre, because its doors were shut on them. “It is unacceptable,” he said, “to disallow these important functions when the yoga classes were allowed at the centre. Another big requirement is of a security wall near the HIG (higher income group) upper and lower flats. The rest of the sector is cordoned off with a wall and barbed wires. For the security wall, the residents have approached   (CHB) many times.
 
 Resident Manmohan Luthra recalled recent cases of snatching in the area, in which the miscreants form the nearby slums were involved. “After this, we demanded that the security gates in this area be shut between 11am and 5pm during the day as well,” he said. A unique problem of the area is of domestic horses that roam about in its green belts and damage the plants and grass. Despite warnings and penalties, the   owners have not removed their animals from the park sites.
 
 Another issue is of stray dogs. RWA president   said the MC claimed to be sterilising the street dogs but its evidence was not seen on the ground. “The MC should also vaccinate the dogs against rabies, for the safety of the residents. We have asked for the removal of the horses from our parks,” he said.
 
 
