SALEM:   police have handed over to a forensic lab in Chennai a seven-page explosive note purported to have been written by former registrar of Salem Periyar University K Angamuthu before he committed suicide by consuming pesticide pills on December 18.

 The note levels allegations against former   C Swaminathan, his former personal assistants N   and S  , K S Sridhar and R Kulandaivel besides current registrar M Manivannan. It says that   was responsible for all the irregularities that took place in the University and that he himself (the person who wrote the note) committed the irregularities with Swaminathan’s consent.
 
 Angamuthu’s family members, including his wife  , daughter S Sowmiya and cousin N Sadasivam, handed over the letter to Erode district superintendent of police R Sivakumar five days ago. The SP immediately forwarded the note to the forensic lab in Chennai to check the authenticity of the letter and to verify whether the handwriting matched that of Angamuthu. “We will investigate the case further based on the authenticity of the note,” the SP said.
 
 The former registrar, who was under the scanner of the higher education department for allegedly destroying files pertaining to faculty recruitment during the period 2012-13, figured among the top 10 candidates for the post of the University VC. The university had filed a police complaint about the missing files, believed to have been destroyed, a day before Angamuthu committed suicide.
 
 Angamuthu’s elder daughter Sowmiya told TOI that she believed the note was written by her father before he ended his life. “I know my father’s handwriting well and it is his suicide note,” she said. She would take the matter to court if police failed to take action against persons whose names were mentioned in the note, she said.
 
 The note said, “I was the middleman to many dealings of Swaminathan and he had given me Rs10 crore during his tenure.” Swaminathan took all the files, including those pertaining to appointments of teaching and non-teaching staff, said the note. “But, everyone blamed me and cornered me into handing over the files,” added the note.
 
 When contacted by TOI, Swaminathan denied the allegations. He said he was ready to prove everything legally. “I am innocent and I don’t know anything about the allegations,” he said. People working against him might have written this letter, he said.
 
 Dismissing the allegations, registrar of the   said the issue did not take place during his tenure. “How can I be held responsible?” he asked. A personal assistant Nelson said he worked for Angamuthu only to maintain ‘leave letters’ and nothing more. “I am in no way linked to the allegations raised in the note,” he said. “Why weren’t our names raised when higher education secretary Sunil Paliwal questioned Angamuthu about the missing files?” he asked.
 
 Another PA Rajamanickam said Angamuthu did not hand over the missing files to Controller of Examination (CoE) Leela when she took charge after his tenure ended. 
 
 
