BENGALURU: The demand for a   is all set to be put on the back burner as the experts’ committee, which is deep-diving into the demands made by various   groups, sought on Saturday an extension of deadline by at least six months to submit its report. The government had set a four-week deadline for the panel to submit its report.

 This, in other words, would mean that no decisive assertion will be taken on the   till the upcoming assembly elections, scheduled to be held in April-May. The seven  , headed by retired high court judge Justice H N Nagmohan Das, was set up in December last week to study the representations received on the   debate and to submit its report.
 
 “But four weeks’ time to submit the report is insufficient. We will request the government to give us at least six months to do a thorough scientific and legal work. This is a serious issue and unprecedented in the country,” said Justice Das after presiding over the committee’s first meeting.
 
 
  The expert committee had been tasked with studying the five representations before it: three demanding separate minority religion for Lingayats, one representation arguing that the community members are Hindus and the other by   demanding minority religion tag for Veerashaiva-Lingayat.
 
 
 
 
 The committee has been directed to submit its recommendations to the   ( ).
 
 Justice Das justified the request for extension of deadline stating, “The   is multi-dimensional and needs to be looked at from different angles. All the representations received in this regard are important and every group will be heard.”
 
 
 The panel, which is currently going through 36 petitions on the issue, has announced January 25 as the last date to give suggestions and raise objections along with proper evidence. Justice Das said the government will be urged to appoint a woman member. The committee’s request for additional time will partly change the political narrative, especially in the Lingayat-dominated North Karnataka. Contrary to public perception that any delay in deciding the issue will be a setback to CM Siddaramaiah, Congresssources described it as a ‘respite’.
 
 “Siddaramaiah was being accused by his political detractors of dividing the Veerashaivas and Lingayats for political gains. But this now turns out to be a win-win situation for him — he will neither be accused of breaking the community nor betraying the Lingayat leaders including his ministers who were determined to get the minority status,” said a source.
 
 A former bureaucrat who has been tracking the issue said: “Even if the committee was to give its report, the CM can’t take any decision on it as the matter is now in the court. By stirring the row, the CM has neither gained nor lost. It will be interesting to see how it will impact the polls.”
 
