Nagpur: The ‘Mobile Lok Adalat’ is set to ply in the district for an entire month aiming to settle pre-litigation and litigation matters which would otherwise be pending in the courts. On Monday, principal district and sessions judge Vilas Dongre flagged off the ‘Mobile Lok Adalat’ van in a ceremony organized by the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), Nagpur, at district and sessions court complex.

 The van has been commissioned by Bombay High Court and will be touring rural areas of the district. The campaign aims to settle pending matters like private disputes, insurance and financial claims, traffic violations, abuse against senior citizens, female foeticide, domestic violence and etc in January. The van may also ply in neighbouring districts with instructions from the high court.
 
 On day one, the van rendered services at Samvidhan Square, Indora Square and Jaripatka Square. The   will be educating the public of their rights via interactions and pamphlets. If the issue remains disputed, it will be referred to the session’s court immediately.
 
 The litigants won’t have to pay for the proceedings at mobile Lok Adalat. The van will be carrying one experienced judicial magistrate, a woman social worker, a teacher of law and a lawyer. The vehicle will visit various villages in the district and resolve legal issues of the people there.
 
 Students of Purushottam Thote College of Social Work, Dighori, performed a skit at locations of the mobile lok adalat showing the importance of legal services.
 
 DLSA secretary Kunal Jadhav said, “The van is an important tool to help those who can’t afford the expenses of litigation. It also allows speedy dispensation of justice in the smallest of matters and helps reduce the burden on the judiciary to some extent.”
 
 More information about the mobile lok adalat can be had on 0712-2541062. Interested persons can also visit the DLSA office at room 305, sixth floor of the district and sessions court at Civil Lines.
 
 (With inputs from Mrunalini Kohat)
 
 ends
 
 
