AHMEDABAD: As an FIR has been filed in the sensational Bitcoin extortion case and three persons have been arrested by CID (crime), sources privy to the developments said Kirit  , the business partner of the complainant, Shailesh Bhatt, may hold the key to the case.

 According to the FIR, Bhatt lost 176 bitcoins and Paladiya 24, when 200 bitcoins were allegedly extorted by Amreli LCB inspector Anant Patel, at Keshav Farm near Dehgam on February 11. The alleged transfer took place from Paladiya’s phone. CID said on Sunday that they have not got evidence of the transfer either from the bitcoin service provider or the directorate of forensic sciences (DFS).
 
 “The probe has revealed that Paladiya’s mobile phone had four different digital wallets for cryptocurrency transactions. Bhatt and Paladiya were in the cryptocurrency business together and Paladiya made transactions on behalf of Bhatt. When the alleged incident took place, there were 269 bitcoins. At the end of March, all the virtual currency in these wallets had been liquidated. These transactions are still being investigated,” said an investigator.
 
 Officials point out that it Paladiya had called Bhatt, who was returning from Ambaji, to a petrol pump near Gandhinagar on February 11. The current FIR has Paladiya as a victim along with Bhatt. His statement was also recorded by CID (crime) before the FIR was filed.
 
 “Currently, the role of each and every person — including Bhatt, the original complainant — is being investigated. We are gathering more information on the connection between the various players. It would be premature to comment on Paladiya’s role. The names of more accused will be added if sufficient evidence emerges,” said a senior CID official.
 
 Sources added that evidence has emerged of meetings between the complainants and some of the accused even after the February 11 incident.
 
 
 
 
  Before presenting the three accused — including two policemen — to the sessions court for remand on Monday, the state police’s CID (crime) took Ketan Patel, 31, a resident of Varachha, Surat; head constable Babu Der, 45; and constable Vijay Vadher, 31; to Keshav Farm on the outskirts of Marodi village on Dehgam road in Gandhinagar district.
 
  Sources familiar with the development said that officials questioned the trio in the presence of Shailesh Bhatt, the complainant in the case, to determine the sequence of events. Police also attempted to ascertain the overall attempt to extort Bitcoins and money from Bhatt and his business associate Kirit Paladiya. Patel, a lawyer and land dealer, had assumed the identity of Iqbal while talking to Bhatt and Paladiya regarding the transfer of Rs 32 crore via a hawala transaction to an angadia firm.
 
 Sources said that the reconstruction of the incident might take place with more arrests in the case. The key accused including Anant Patel, the inspector of Amreli police’s local crime branch (LCB), are absconding.
 
 
 
 
  A city sessions court on Monday sent three persons to police remand till April 13 in connection with alleged extortion in form of forcible transfer of Bitcoin by Amreli police.
 
 After arresting three persons — two from Amreli and one from Surat — the probe agency, CID (crime), produced them before the court and sought their 10-day custodial interrogation.
 
 For investigator, public prosecutor Sudhir Brahmbhatt submitted that the probe agency needed to find out how the main accused police inspector A P Patel helped in the alleged crime of abduction, illegal detention and extortion of 200 Bitcoin worth Rs 12 crore. It has also been alleged that the victim, Shailesh Bhatt, was asked to pay Rs 32 crore for his release from Keshav Farm near Chiloda.
 
  
  It was submitted that the reasons behind the accused visiting Gandhinagar did not seem convincing. Their presence is required for a detailed probe into transactions of Bitcoin. The custodial interrogation was also sought for the purpose of reconstruction of the alleged crime and for conducting Test Identification (TI) parade.
 
  
  On the other hand, on part of the accused, it was submitted that the offence was bailable and there was no question of granting remand. They claimed innocence in this case.
 
 Will not spare anyone in bitcoin extortion case: Jadeja
 
 Gandhinagar: Pradipsinh Jadeja, MoS (Home), on Monday told mediapersons that whoever is found responsible in the Bitcoin extortion case will face the consequences. Jadeja was speaking about the special investigation team (SIT) formed to probe the case. CID (crime) formed the SIT on Sunday. The SIT is headed by DIG Dipankar Trivedi and has one SP, two inspectors and a sub-inspector.
 
 “The state police’s CID (crime) has taken strict action in for the alleged extortion of money by Amreli police officials. Nine police officials accused in the case have been suspended. Whoever is responsible will face the law.   Police is capable of solving all crimes,” said Jadeja.
 
 About the alleged involvement of former MLA and BJP leader Nalin Kotadiya and Amreli SP   in case, Jadeja declined to make specific comments but said that the government does not and will not favour anyone.
 
 
