MANGALURU:   city on the coast of Kenya signed a Memorandum of Understanding ( ) with the Port City of Mangaluru for health tourism (training and treatment) on Sunday.

 Thanks to the formation of the  , which commenced six months back, it was able to attract Mombasa to Mangaluru. Mombasa, sealed a deal with Mangaluru, on Sunday, which is known for world-class health facilities and medical colleges for treatment of its citizens, and to train its doctors.
 
 A delegation from Mombasa, headed by Dr  , chief officer of health, department of health services, Mombasa County, Kenya, visited the city on Sunday.
 
 Sanjay Bhat, a digital marketing and health tourism strategist from Mangaluru, explained that the task force, which is an umbrella organization of all private hospitals in the city, had pushed for health tourism. “The city has enormous potential in health tourism,” he said. “It has natural potential like well-trained surgeons, state-of-the-art equipment and facilities. The task force had met people’s representatives about their plan and they received a positive response from them. Within six months of its inception, it has impressed the authorities from Mombasa,” he said.
 
 He said a team from the city recently visited Mombasa, and impressed the authorities there, due to which they are now planning to collaborate with hospitals in the coastal city. Yenepoya (Deemed university), Kanachur Hospital and Mangalore Institute of Oncology will be collaborating with them.
 
 He said there will be a separate counter at the airport for medical immigrants.
 
 “We have estimated that if health tourism takes place in a full-fledged manner, it can generate Rs 3,000 crore in revenue and 3,000 jobs,” adds Bhat. “The other advantage in Mangaluru for patients is that the cost of living is less compared to metro cities, where one can save at least 20 per cent of the cost normally incurred,” he added.
 
 He said another advantage of Mangaluru is that it is well connected. Bhat said Dubai is one of the major hubs connecting to Kenya, and that from Dubai it takes just few hours to reach any part of India, including Mangaluru.
 
 Happiness over facility
 
 Dr Khadija pointed out that Mangaluru has state-of-the-art facilities. “Kenya has 47 counties, and only one county has advanced radiotherapy facilities, but Mangaluru has everything required in healthcare, be it oncology, cardiology, spinal surgery or other areas.”
 
 “The collaboration with Mangaluru is just a starting point,” she said.
 
 Fast immigration
 
 Minister for food and civil supplies   said cultural exchange between Kenya will take place in the coming days.
 
 “In order for   to happen smoothly, one needs airport authorities who are cooperative, and fast immigration facilities for patients arriving from foreign countries. We will hold discussions with officials for their full cooperation in this regard,” he said.
 
 
