BENGALURU:   MLC C M Ibrahim’s meeting with JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda and state president H D Kumaraswamy in Bengaluru on Monday triggered speculation in political circles about the MLC’s next political move.

 While Ibrahim maintained that he had paid a courtesy visit to Gowda and Kumaraswamy on the occasion of Sankranti, the political grapevine has it that Ibrahim was testing the waters, in the backdrop of his tenure in the legislative council coming to an end on June 17 this year. Sources in the Congress said: “It is quite obvious that Ibrahim is no longer in the inner circle of chief minister Siddaramaiah. His meeting with JD(S) leaders has to be viewed in the context of his term as MLC nearing an end, and the Congress leadership not sending him any feelers about re-electing him or giving him a ticket to contest the coming elections.”
 
 In fact, Ibrahim had served as civil aviation minister when Gowda was Prime Minister in 1996, and joined the Congress along with Siddaramaiah following differences. Ibrahim had spewed venom against Gowda in his political speeches.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Siddaramaiah got him a Congress ticket to contest from Bhadravathi in 2013, but he lost to his rival by 56,041 votes. Following this, he was appointed deputy chairman of the State Planning Commission, and subsequently, was elected to the legislative council in August last year. Though Ibrahim hoped to become a minister during the last cabinet expansion, he was overtaken by another of Siddaramaiah’s aides, H M Revanna. Following this, Ibrahim’s political strength shrank.
 
 Meanwhile, JD(S) leaders claimed that they are not enthused by Ibrahim’s Sankranti visit. A JD(S) leader said: “Ibrahim had made several attempts to meet Gowda before the Congress made him MLC, we don’t know what his intention is now. Muslims in South Karnataka will vote for the JD(S) in the polls.”
 
 Political sources maintained that Ibrahim’s strength was his speeches, and his weakness was his inability to nurture any constituency or convert applause into votes.
 
 Ibrahim's first mentor was former CM S Nijalingappa, who is said to have spotted him at an election meeting in 1967 as a 12-year-old boy giving election speeches for his father's friend contesting on a Congress ticket from Bhadravati. In 1969, when the Congress split, Nijalingappa entrusted Ibrahim to former chief minister Veerendra Patil, with whom he stayed till his death. He became an MLA in 1978 on a Janata Party ticket, joined the Congress in 1980 and quit, only to rejoin in 2008.
 
