PUNE: DAV Public School, Aundh, organized a two-day programme —   2017-18 — to harness the inner potential of students. The event was an initiative of principal CV Madhavi, reinforcing classroom teachings through dance, music and other activities. The event was inaugurated by the principal, followed by a number of performances by the students. Students of each class showcased their talent. This was the third and by far the most successful year with 100% students participating.

 
 
 Students of The   2 made their institution proud in the 1st Raje Skateathlon Competition 2018 with their performance. Manan Gupta of Senior KG won a gold medal in the under-six category; Sanvi Ghiya of Standard II and   of Standard III bagged gold and silver, respectively, in the under eight-category at the event held recently. Deepika Munelli of Standard VI Vega bagged a bronze medal. The event was organized by Skateathlon and Waveboard Sports Maharashtra Association. An activity of book review was conducted by the school for the students of Standard I to VII recently. Students were encouraged to review their favourite books, which were later displayed in the library with colourful charts to highlight their work. Winners were awarded with merit certificates and ‘Book review awards’.
 
 
 
 
 Reflections was the theme for the art, craft and science exhibition recently held at St Mira’s School. The exhibition was inaugurated by R A Vaswani, the chairperson of the Sadhu Vaswani Mission. Students presented social messages in daily life using analogy in models. For example, the ‘make and break’ virtue was playfully introduced to students through traffic rules. Science projects gave an insight to parents to introspect the diet of their children. The social studies projects suggested ways to make the environment, air and water better for the future generation. An exclusive corner was dedicated to various activities of students as a part of Dada J P Vaswani’s centenary celebrations. The Marathi section displayed articles on saints of Maharashtra and historical places in Pune. Dada J P Vaswani, who visited the exhibition, applauded the efforts of the headmistress, Ruby Karna, the teachers and the students.
 
 
