MUMBAI: Ten days of being on the run and losing the chance of securing anticipatory bail in the Kamla Mills blaze case, Yug Tuli (29) on Tuesday morning went to the N M   police station and surrendered. He was produced at a Bhoiwada court later in the day and remanded in police custody till January 20. Tuli, co-owner of the resto-bar Mojo’s Bistro, where the fire is believed to have started, was barefoot when brought to the court. Unlike the other accused in the case, he did not cover his face with a handkerchief. His anticipatory bail application (ABA) was rejected by a sessions court on Friday. The police had issued a look out circular (LOC) against him at all airports in the country.

 The names of Tuli and his business partner   were added on January 6 to the first FIR in the case, filed after the December 29 tragedy that claimed 14 lives. The FIR initially named 1Above partners Kripesh and Jigar Sanghavi, and Abhijeet Mankar. The severest charge against Tuli is culpable homicide not amounting to murder (section 304 of the IPC), under which the maximum punishment (upon conviction) is a prison term of 10 years. Tuli and Pathak were named after the police received a report from the fire brigade that the Kamala Mills fire begun at Mojo’s Bistro and then spread to the adjoining 1Above, whose 13 patrons and a waiter died.
 
 Tuli can be seen in a 40-second video upon reaching the police station, where he says, “I have come to surrender since my anticipatory bail plead was rejected… I was in Amritsar.”
 
 
  
 
 Shyam Dewani, appearing for Tuli in the court, said his client “voluntarily surrendered”. In response, pubic prosecutor   said that Tuli’s ABA was rejected and he was a prime accused in the case. “He came to surrender only after his ABA was rejected. He had done illegal construction and obstructed the exit route. To question him thoroughly, we are in need of custodial interrogation,” Wadhwane told the court. Dewani told the court his client got summons from the police station on January 4 and appeared before cops the very next day. “(He) was called and (his) statements were recorded. The allegations were against 1Above. There was not a single death at (Mojo’s Bistro)… All evidence is documented and with the police; why do they need custody now?,” Dewani told the court.
 
 Advocate Prakash Shetty, special public prosecutor in the case, told that court that Tuli was earlier questioned in the related MRTP case registered against him and not for IPC charges in the main blaze case. “He was on the run since his name was included in the FIR (mentioning IPC sections),” he said.
 
