CHANDIGARH: Now, the wait for discharge procedures will soon be a passé with Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32 all set to start service of an instant email of discharge summary to the patients.

 As of now, there is no other government hospital which provides instant discharge summary in city. It takes more than four hours to get discharge slip at both Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research and Government Multi Speciality Hospital, Sector 16.
 
 “We already have the facility of online registration and appointment. But, due to shortage of staff, this service is not available in all the departments,” said  , in-charge of the computerization program in  .
 
 There are 800 beds in the hospital and which are always occupied at any given time. “These patients who are admitted in the wards get a print out of the discharge summary. After all the dues are cleared, they will get an email which will save them the hassle of waiting for hours in queue,” said Garg.
 
 Under the e-hospital program, GMCH provides online laboratory reports except the radio diagnosis reports like the MRI/CT scan and X-rays. PGIMER also issues online laboratory reports, but has not yet started online appointments.
 
 “We have hoarded the data of the indoor patients and   patients. We need not to ask for patients records in the OPD except radio diagnosis reports. The hospital is trying to procure software for the radio diagnosis reports so that these reports can also be provided online,” said Dr Garg.
 
 There are over 1 lakh in-patient (admitted patients)   records since 1996 in GMCH. The hospital is working on to convert all paper health record chart data into digital record by scanning them and placing them in imaging based document management system.
 
 Around 2,500 patients visit OPD of GMCH daily. “With this digitalisation, we can store huge patient data without fear of losing records. All this data is encrypted and stored under multiple layered security,” said a technical officer in GMCH.
 
 
