ALLAHABAD: It’s not only policing where laxity by cops becomes evident every now and then, the negligence and non-appearance of cops is also increasing pendency of cases in Allahabad sessions courts. As many as 126 cases are pending with different session courts of Allahabad district, some dating back to as early as 1986, as policemen have not appeared in court for recording their evidence and failing to submit required documents and articles before courts.

 These cases, registered under various sections of IPC including 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), and acts like Explosives Act, NDPS Act and Arms Act. Cops from all 39 police stations have either not appeared in court or failed to submit required evidence.
 
 The starling fact came to light after senior police officials scrutinised the status of pending cases and prepared a thana-wise list of pending cases.
 
  and   police stations top the list with nine cases each, followed by Khuldabad (8), Dhoomanganj (7), Meja (6), Shivkuti (5), Jhunsi (5), Koraon (5), Karchana (5), Civil Lines (5), Soraon (5),   (4), Phulpur (4),   (4), Manda (4), Bara (4), Utraon (4), Attarsuiya (3), Sarai mamrej ( 3), Tharwai (3), Ghurpur (3), Naini (3), Shankargarh ( 3), Kareli (3), Cantt (3) and Daraganj (3).
 
 Kotwali, Kydganj and Holagarh police stations had only two pending cases each.
 
 SP (protocol) Purnendu Singh told TOI, “A list of total 126 cases pending in different session courts has been prepared wherein cops either did not turn up in court as witness to record evidence or failed to submit required documents”.
 
 “Top range officials have taken a serious view of policemen’s lackadaisical approach and decided to take disciplinary action against them,” he added.
 
 “The department has drafted a list of policemen who did not appear in court or failed to submit documents and articles, and efforts are under way to compile a status of their current postings,” Singh said.
 
 The oldest case was found having been registered with Khuldabad police station under crime number 112/86, under section 375, 504, 506 and 323 of IPC and was pending due to non-appearance of witness in the court of ACJM VII.
 
 Similarly, case no 65/87 under section 147, 336, 504 and 506 of IPC registered with   police and case no 58/88 registered under Arms Act with Khuldabad police were pending for witnesses not appearing.
 
 “Non-appearance of witnesses was main cause for majority of pending cases. A team has been constituted to take up such pending cases,” SP (protocol) said.
 
