BHOPAL: A day after commotion and verbal duel in the state assembly, the legislators took timeout to beat the stress and get tips to relax and be stress-free during a special session of yoga and meditation at the assembly, on Tuesday evening. The special session will continue for three days.

 "We need to take out time for ourselves and specially when each one of us is engaged in hectic daily chores and mental stress. We have been organising meditation camps from time to time to help members remain stress-free," said Speaker Sitasaran Sharma.
 
 The yoga session would help relieve the members after a tight day in the house. The classes began from 7 am for two hours and at 7.30 pm for one hour, where the members learnt ‘asanas' and ‘meditation techniques'. Special breathing exercises were also taught to keep diseases away. However, turnout of MLAs for the session was very poor.
 
 "The yoga session is being held under the aegis Hityog Prashikshan Sansthan, Gurugram. Instructions have been issued to all the participants to wear loose, light and comfortable clothes during yoga practice and keep their stomach empty while performing asanas. Those suffering from diabetes, high blood pressure will have to be cautious and continue with their medication,” said trainer, Hitanshi Jain.
 
 Principal secretary of Vidhan Sabha, A P Singh who also participated in the morning session said that assembly staff has also to be involved in the training camp.
 
 The yoga session would help the members get relief from ailments like back ache, mental stress and work as an antidote to many other diseases, said minister of state  .
 
 In 2013, the government invited yoga guru Baba Ramdev to hold yoga camp in the state assembly and similar camps were also held by other trainers but, the idea to make it a part of routine could not be materialises during the session.
 
 A day before, the house witnessed ruckus over a comment by   legislator Jitu Patwari and almost all the members got involved in the melee. The members exasperated after the debate were seen trying to slug it out till the matter was transferred to the Privilege Committee. Members believed that yoga and meditation camp would help members cool and relaxed.
 
 
