KOLKATA: Guarded by an elite commando force, one of the world’s most high-profile aircraft spent the night under uprecedented vigil in bay No. 42 at Kolkata airport. It is also among the most expensive planes in the world, with gold-plated fixtures, including seat belt buckles. The owner of the dark grey   B757-200, which has a white belly with a red band running through, calls it the T-Bird after the blazing red Temblazoned on the tail. Since early 2016 though, it’s been dubbed   Force One after the official US presidential plane Air Force One that the owner has been assigned.

 With TRUMP painted in bold on the aircraft, there was no chance of anyone mistaking its flamboyant owner for anyone other than real estate magnate-turned US President Donald Trump. Used by his family members now, it had flown Donald   to Kolkata after ahalt in Delhi on Tuesday.
 
 From the moment it touched down on Tuesday evening till it took off on Wednesday afternoon, the plane was the subject of conversation, admiration and speculation at the airport. From ground personnel to security, just about everyone wanted a selfie with the aircraft as the backdrop. No one, however, got a peep into the aircraft.
 
 
  
 The interiors would have left most stunned by the extravagance — a shower room with gold-plated bath fixtures, a bedroom with a king size bed, a dining room, a guest room and an entertainment area with a 57-inch-screen home cinema. The aircraft is powered by   turbofan RB211engines, powerful enough for the plane to fly at over 800km/h. It, however, has 43 seats instead of the 200-plus seats that it sported when in use in airline operations.
 
 The aircraft played a crucial role in the run-up to the presidential election. Trump had used it extensively, criss-crossing the country on one of the most amazing election campaigns that saw the rank outsider b eat established Democrat politicians before defeating Republican candidate   to become the 45th President of America.
 
 Operating a nearly threedecade-old fuel guzzler is not cheap with an hour-long flight estimated to cost around Rs 7 lakh. Trump acquired the jet in 2011to replace a smaller B727. It was built in 1991and used a commercial plane by first Sterling Airlines of Denmark and later by Taesa of Mexico. . In 1995, it became a corporate business jet for Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen’s enterprises before being purchased by  .
 
 It was the security of the President’s eldest son rather than its lavish fittings that led to the elaborate security cordon around the aircraft at Kolkata airport. While Trump Organization’s personal security officers and   manned the aircraft, a CISF team formed a perimeter around the plane to restrict access to it.
 
 On Tuesday, the B757 took off from the airport with Trump Jr at 2.30pm, within minutes of the primary runway returning to operation after routine maintenance work.
 
