MUMBAI: On January 29, 2014, a special trial judge in the city convicted six   accused in a fake currency   case. It was found that the details on the seized fake notes matched with those on   notes in the Kochi currency chest of the RBI, revealing the wide span of the   racket that is believed to operate to aid terrorism. 

 
  
  
 
 The face value of the notes was Rs 3.45 lakh. Soon, the state ATS came into the picture and it arrested Asruddin Shaikh and Azraul Tamez, recovering fake notes with a face value of Rs 18,500 from them. The investigation was subsequently transferred to the NIA, which re-registered the case and revealed a large fake notes scam.
 
 The incident highlighted the use of high-quality fake currency for hawala, terrorism, and to destabilise the Indian economy. The recently released National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report 2016 showed that the police across the state seized notes of different denominations with a face value of Rs 95.65 lakh in that year. There was no seizure of such notes in 2014 and 2015 in the state. 
 
 The state recorded the second-highest seizures of high-quality fake notes that were suspected to have been used in terror funding in 2016. Assam topped the chart with Rs14.08 crore currency seized in 2016. At third spot was West Bengal at Rs 64.2 lakh, Bihar was fourth at Rs 7.5 lakh and Kerala fifth at Rs 2.46 lakh in that year. 
 
 In 2015, the highest such seizures were made from West Bengal at Rs 61.7 lakh, followed by J&K at Rs17.5 lakh and Bihar at Rs 8.5 lakh.
 
 Once printed, Pakistan agencies are believed to use the porous borders of Nepal and Bangladesh to smuggle fake notes into India, said a police officer from the state Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS). Under the home ministry, the government has formed a special Fake Notes Co-ordination (FCORD) Group to share information on fake currency notes with security agencies of the states and the Centre. 
 
 High-quality fake currency is defined as a note that has at least six to seven of the 11 special security features in an original. “According to the study, at any given point of time banknotes with a face value of Rs 400 crore are in circulation in the country. The study also reveals that fake notes with face value of Rs 70 crore enter the Indian economy but Indian agencies manage to intercept only a third of these,” an investigator said.
 
 The study revealed that the Rs 1,000 notes, which were demonetized in November 2016, constituted nearly 50% of the total value of the fake notes. “The reports of Intelligence Bureau and RAW, which was prepared last year, showed Pakistan’s military spy agency and their infamous Inter-Service Intelligence reaped an annual profit of Rs 500 crore by circulating counterfeit currency notes in India,” the official said.
 
 Former state DGP Pravin Dixit said. “Such currency is either used by hawala operator, to escape taxes and also by terror outfits.”
 
 City police spokesperson DCP Deepak Deoraj said that after seizure of such notes, the income tax department and the RBI are alerted and they conduct a parallel probe.
 
 An ATS officer said initially a case of counterfeiting is registered under the IPC. Later, based on the RBI report, depending on the high-quality note seizure report, those arrested are booked under various sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.
 
 An RBI official said fake notes detected at bank branches or the treasury are impounded and stamped. For cases of detection of counterfeit notes of up to four in a transaction, a consolidated report is sent by the nodal bank officer to the police, along with the suspect notes, at the month-end.
 
 
