CHENNAI: Come summer, city-based B Madan is looking forward to a memorable family trip overseas. A travel freak, who has toured several countries, Madan is eyeing an exotic destination that is not on the tourism radar of many Indians. “I wish to visit   for this summer because the African nation has uncommercialised, virgin places blessed with sandy beaches. We are also told the country has ancient archaeological sites, which is another reason,” he said.

 With several city travellers charting out their foreign trips for the upcoming vacation, a section of seasoned travellers are looking at little known international destinations for holidaymakers from the subcontinent.  , Kenya, Madagascar, Malawi,  , Peru, Jeju Island in South Korea, Tanzania and Zimbabwe have made to the list of emerging countries that the city tour operators are getting enquiries about from travellers. 
 
  
  
 
 J Sakthi, a tour operator said families are looking for combining a popular country and its unexplored neighbourhood in their itinerary. “For instance, those travelling to New Zealand add Fiji to their trip. Similarly, Kenya and Malawi are two other countries we getting enquiries about, thanks to wildlife tourism,” he said. About 10% of queries that we get are for new international destinations, he added.
 
 Unlike the traditional destinations in Southeast Asia, Europe and the US, travelling to such places are expensive due to lack of direct air connectivity. Outbound tour operator Priya Menon said travelling to African countries was costlier than visiting Europe from  . “Chennai is a conventional market. We do not have adequate flights linking Chennai with Africa. Travelling to Africa is expensive because of airfare and accommodation,” she said. Her travel agency has received enquiries for Tanzania and Zimbabwe for June, a period of animal migration. 
 
 Sharat Dhall, COO (B2C), Yatra.com said international destinations like Iceland and Peru are attracting the millennial, who wish to explore beyond the conventional destinations. “The travel trends for this summer season will be homestays, a segment which has been growing rapidly, baby-mooning/second honeymoon, a trend which gained immense popularity in the last season and experiential travel options where individuals look forward to gain more experience while exploring different cultures of newer destinations,” he said.
 
 According to SOTC Travel many are seeking new and authentic experiences this summer. Daniel Dsouza, head sales, India and NRI Markets, SOTC Travel said travelling to destinations like Hungary and Czech Republic is on the rise. “The new trend is the innovative dynamic packaged holiday to attract more cost-conscious and variety-loving customers,” said Daniel Dsouza. 
 
 Making the most of the demand, Thomas Cook India has launched a ‘Best Price Challenge’ as of ‘Grand India Holiday Sale’ from March 7 -17, 2018 to destinations around the world for this summer. Under the scheme, customers will get travel vouchers if they can find cheaper options elsewhere.
 
 
