GAYA: The stalemate between officials of the   and its off shoot, Patna- based   apparently came to an end on Tuesday following a broad understanding reached between the two universities on distribution of assets and liabilities. The understanding was reached at a high-level meet held at the state headquarters of the education department in Patna. 

 According to sources, the two universities will distribute the headquarters-based employees in the ratio of 55:45 with 55% of the nearly 500 employees shifted to the Pataliputra University. MU will retain all such employees who will be reaching the age of superannuation within one year. 
 
 The apportionment of employees will be done in two phases and the gradation list will be notified before the apportionment, which will be made on the basis of a structured formula.
 
 It has also been decided that the financial reserve of all constituent colleges in Patna and Nalanda districts will go to Pataliputra University. In addition to the college funds, MU will transfer Rs 5 crore to its off shoot in two instalments. Whereas Rs 2 crore will immediately be transferred to the Pataliputra University account, the remaining three crore will be transferred after completing the audit process.
 
 Salary and pension payment of 25 constituent and three government-funded minority colleges will be made by the Pataliputra University with effect from April 1. The payment will be made after the receipt of the salary grant from the government.
 
 The only unresolved issue, according to sources pertained to the conduct of exam of students admitted in colleges located in Patna and Nalanda districts prior to the formal establishment of Pataliputra University. The new varsity wants to conduct such exams but in absence of properly framed exam rules and shortage of staff, the move has hit a road block. A final call in the matter will be taken by the Chancellor’s office. MU, on its part, reportedly does not have any objection to such a move.
 
 Earlier, the state government stopped direct recruitment of grade III and grade IV employees in 2013 and the university officials have been asked to go for outsourcing. As such, Pataliputra University too cannot go for direct recruitment of grade III and grade IV employees.
 
 Sources said a formal notification containing the details of the bifurcation formula will be issued soon.
 
 
