CHENNAI: In a reprieve to over 950 TN police personnel, the   has allowed the state government to proceed further in filling up the promotional vacancies based on the regular seniority list without reference to the accelerated promotion granted to 752 STF personnel involved in the hunt for forest brigand   who was killed in 2004.

 “The police department cannot suffer endlessly without filling up the promotional posts. Therefore, the authorities are directed to proceed with filling up all the vacancies by way of preparing a final seniority list as per the existing rules without reference to the accelerated promotion. However, this is subject to the result of the pending writ petitions,” Justice T Raja said.
 
 After Veerappan was gunned down, the then   regime announced a bonanza for all STF personnel including en masse accelerated promotion, cash rewards and free houses. This snowballed into a controversy after others in the force realised that their seniority had been adversely affected by the accelerated promotion. Noting that the option of joining the STF was not offered to all policemen in the state and that the government had not assessed the individual contribution of STF personnel before announcing the bonanza, several cases were filed. Later, the DMK government said the accelerated promotion was a one-stage affair and beneficiaries would have to await their batch to reach their seniority before getting further promotions. This order too was challenged by the then STF personnel in the cadre of   and above. In 2013, a division bench said accelerated promotion would not mean accelerated seniority. Another batch of similar pleas was moved by personnel below the cadre of DSP seeking accelerated seniority and securing an interim stay against filling up regular promotional vacancies.
 
 During the hearing of the present plea, senior counsel representing the regular police submitted that when a division bench of this court had already rejected the plea of STF cadres in the rank of DSP and above, pleas seeking similar relief by cadres below the rank of DSP should also be rejected. 
 
 
