NEW DELHI: The CBI questioned former deputy governor of   Harun Rashid Khan on Friday in connection with its probe into the Rs 13,600 crore Punjab National Bank fraud involving absconding jewellers Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi.

 Khan was asked about the policy framework at the time when letters of undertaking (LoUs) were fraudulently issued by colluding PNB officials to Modi and Choksi; the statutory audit of the bank and also the 20:80 gold import scheme cleared by the UPA government when P Chidambaram was finance minister, sources said.
 
 The scheme allegedly helped Choksi’s company and a few others make windfall gains on the basis of clearances given to them just as the Manmohan Singh government was exiting office. Sources clarified that Khan was not a suspect in the case and he was called to answer questions related to RBI’s policy matters. On Thursday, the CBI had questioned four senior RBI officials including three chief general managers (CGMs) and a general manager (GM) on similar lines.
 
 Khan joined the RBI as deputy governor in January 2011 and his portfolio included foreign exchange department, payment and settlement systems and external investments and operations. Following the retirement of deputy governor Anand Sinha in 2014, Khan briefly took charge of the crucial banking operations and development. At the time of retirement in 2016, he held the departments of financial markets, external investments and operations, payment and settlements, information technology, foreign exchange and internal debt management. Sources said since PNB officials concerned were already questioned in the last two months, the CBI’s investigation was now focusing on the policies exploited by Modi and Choksi.
 
 Meanwhile, RBI sources said its officials were routinely consulted or summoned by probe agencies and regulators like CBI, income tax department, Financial Investigation Unit (FIU) and FATF (Financial Action Task Force) to provide clarity on banking and other policy matters under the central bank’s domain.
 
 The NDA government had last month accused Chidambaram of aiding Modi and Choksi through the 20:80 gold import scheme. The original 80:20 scheme enabled private traders to import gold provided they had an export track record and they exported 20% of the imported gold as value-added jewellery. On May 21, 2014, after the general election results but before swearing in of the new government, the RBI issued a circular diluting the original circular norms. The   had complained that the May 21 circular was unfair as it gave a few private parties an edge over banks that were importing gold for jewellers. 
 
 They alleged that the norms allowed export houses to import up to two tonnes of gold and even those who were not engaged in bullion or gold jewellery business could do so.
 
