 is one of the most diverse states where seven languages are spoken: apart from Kannada, there is Telugu, Tamil, Tulu, Marathi, Konkani and Hindi. It shares its borders with the southern states, Goa and Maharashtra. With Goa and Tamil Nadu it has river-sharing disputes, while netas from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana are actively campaigning among the state’s Telugu-speakers. A look at how the different regions of the state voted in 2013.

 
 
 
 This region is so called because these are parts that were carved out of the old Bombay Presidency when states were reorganized on linguistic basis.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 This region includes the Kodagu-speaking areas of Karnataka.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Despite the fact that sizeable sections of Christians and Muslims come from this region, this is where BJP first made significant inroads in the state, and where fringe Hindutva elements find the most traction in the state.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 These areas were once under the control of the princely state of Hyderabad and have a substantial Telugu-speaking population.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The name is self-explanatory, but this area also has a sizeable Tamil speaking population and is the area Deve Gowda’s JD(S) banks on heavily.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The state capital has 28 seats in the fray.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The Lingayat’s make up almost a fifth of Karnataka’s population and are influential in 186 of the 224 seats. Their vote is spread across the state barring the coastal areas. Here’s a quick explainer on why netas think that the Lingayat vote will be a deciding factor in the Karnataka polls.
 
 
 
 Lingayats are followers of 12th century poet-philosopher Basavanna, who rejected caste and feudal systems of Hinduism. Spread across the state, they make up almost a fifth of Karnataka’s population. They worship the ishtalinga (formless God).
 
 
 
 As followers of Basavanna, Lingayat’s rejected caste and feudal systems of Hinduism, and advocated a social order based on equality and rationalism.
 
 Veerashaivas on the other hand, follow the Vedic practice of Shiva worship, which includes acceptance of the caste system and other rituals.
 
 
 
 Over time, the vachanas, or teachings of Basavanna, were watered down and the Lingayats began to follow some Hindu practices though the basic tenets remained.
 
 Veerashaivas are a sub-sect of Lingayats and ardent followers of Lord Shiva. They preceded Basavanna, the founder of Lingayatism. Veerashaivism has its roots in the Vedas and Agamas, and Veerashaivas do not worship any god other than Shiva. The terms Lingayat and Veerashaiva began to be used interchangeably, and Lingayats were considered part of a social reform movement within Hinduism. About two decades ago, scholars began researching more and showed up the differences between the two.
 
 
 
 The community forms 17%- 19% of the state’s population and are the dominant caste in 120 seats across the state.
 
 Eight chief ministers in the state have been from the Lingayat community. The community has also send a number of leaders to the Centre.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 In mid-March, Karnataka CM   declared the Lingayats a religious minority. The move is being seen as a masterstroke since the BJP believes in a homogenous Hindu identity.
 
 However, the Lingayats have supported BJP too. BJP’s chief minister candidate BS Yeddyurappa is a Lingayat and was Karnataka chief minister from May 2008 to July 2011.
 
 
 
 The BJP has seen its Lingayat vote base shrinking from 2008 to 2013. The state government's decision to grant minority status to the community is an attempt at further splitting the saffron party's vote base, which the BJP is hoping to counter by playing the 'sympathy card' to kindle sentiments in favour of its chief ministerial candidate, BS Yeddyurappa, a Lingayat himself.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
