Tuticorin: “There was no facility to take him to hospital. A colleague and I carried him, hoisting him on to our shoulders in turns, for more than two kilometres before we were able to find an autorickshaw and rush him to hospital," said a policeman.

 Himself injured in the incidents where anti-Sterlite protesters turned against the men and women in khaki in Tuticorin on Tuesday, the policeman was speaking to TOI over phone about how he had helped bring Jaisankar, a head constable in the special banch CID, to hospital.
 
 While Jaisankar, a resident of Ettaiyapuram, was unable to speak, the injured policeman said: "The protesters chased and attacked us. When Jaisankar, who was in civilain clothes, took cover behind a shack, they attacked him from behind."
 
 "Some residents of the area noticed him (Jaishankar) being attacked before we were able to get to him. The doctors stiched up the wound on his head caused when some people hit him with a blade like weapon. It was a planned attack. Had the residents not noticed him, we may have lost him. Many of the protesters knew him (Jaishankar) and targeted him."
 
 The policeman also complained that there was no proper command from senior officers even as the personnel on the filed tried to escape from the enraged crowd that attacked them with sticks and stones. 
 
 He claimed that few had anticipated that the protesters would gather in huge numbers and that there was little preparation to thwart any untoward incident. "There was a lack of briefing. None of the local police personnel suffered injuries. All those injured were from the armed reserve or the Tamil Nadu special battalion. There should have been a two-layer network of barricades around the collectorate to protect the police personnel," he said.
 
 At least 44 police personnel were injured in stone-pelting incidents. Among the injured are Sahaya Robin, 26, Santhamari, 26, Mary Jagirtha, 41, Sophia, 25, Nithya, 25, Sabura Banu, 30, Grace Mariammal, 31, Priya, 31, Selvarani, 43, Ajitha, 40, Arun Christopher, 36, Arunkumar, 26, Manirathnam, 25, Mano, 27, and Sathyamurthy, 27.
 
 
