CHENNAI : The city   is warming up to the idea of utilising   (CSR) funds, brought to the table by corporate firms and private clubs, to finance lake eco-restoration projects.

 The corporation maintains over 100 small to mid-sized water bodies in the city’s core and extended limits. Several of them are under threat from encroachments and illegal dumping. While the civic body has no concrete conservation plans, corporation officials told TOI that private clubs and firms have expressed interest to fund restoration projects. 
 
 “Rotary clubs and a few other firms have expressed willingness but we cannot take the proposal forward unless there is a technical framework in place,” said a corporation official.
  
  
 The technical framework includes funding pattern, consultant deployment and personnel allocation. “Firms coughing up the funds could insist that they prepare the detailed project report for the restoration work. Others could insist on doing the civil work too and then there may be a few who just want to pay the money and take credit. We need to find a framework that fits all parties,” the official told TOI.
 
 According to a corporation source, the initiative to seek CSR funding for restoration works was mooted at the ministerial level. “The (municipal administration) minister wants to explore alternate funding options,” the source said.
 
 The source added that it is likely that the corporation may tie up with an agency possessing technical expertise like the Environmentalist Foundation of India (EFI). “The scale of implementation could be a problem. We are not sure if agencies have the resources required to assist us in projects involving 50 or 60 water bodies at once,” the source said. Arun Krishnamurthy of EFI told TOI that the corporation must consider involving residents in the projects. “We will be working on restoring 55 water bodies across India in 2018. Personnel is not a problem. The local community must be actively involved to instill the sense of ownership,” Krishnamurthy said. 
 
 
