HYDERABAD: There is stiff resistance among residents of Road Number 45, Jubilee Hills, against land acquisition and demolition of houses for construction of elevated flyovers as part of Strategic Road Development Plan in the city.

 The road is lined with houses of some of the most prominent people in Hyderabad including those of actor N Balakrishna, actor  , eminent doctors and builders. The proposed flyovers aim to ease traffic on the road, and   is planning to develop footpaths on both sides for pedestrians.
 
 
  
  
 
 Members of Jubilee Hills Cooperative Society, who will be affected by road widening, formed as an association and knocked on the doors of GHMC officials and politicians seeking relief against the acquisition and demolition. They have sought at least reduction of the extent of acquisition. Members informed GHMC that they are not ready to hand over possession on terms offered in the notices.
 
 Apart from raising several concerns on the legal procedures followed by GHMC, the residents told civic authorities that ‘the vaastu of several houses for which great pains were taken at the time of construction is getting affected and that will be irreparable damage.”
 
 GHMC has issued notices under section 146 of GHMC Act, asking owners of the houses and plot owners to give consent for 120 feet widening. Residents alleged that instead of 100 feet in the master plan, the civic body is going for 120 feet because of which more than 117 houses will be affected.
 
 GHMC commissioner   told 
 , “Residents were given notices requesting to hand over possession of affected portion and give consent under the act in public interest. The resistance will be common as those affected will always protest, but GHMC will go ahead with the SRDP. They (residents) have met me, and we will look into their grievances.”
 
 In a representation submitted to the Mayor   and commissioner B Janardhan Reddy, a copy of which is available with this newspaper, the residents said, “We have been living here for three decades, and notices came to our shock. Widening is taken up in haste without considering our difficulties. We are advised that the government notification is liable to be challenged and contrary to the law and violation of our legal and constitutional rights.”
 
 Residents told GHMC that the compensation offered is not fair and hence unacceptable and asked for a proper hearing. They also objected to the GO issued to change Road Number 45 Jubilee Hills to ‘commercial road” from a residential area. “No study has been done on adverse impact on residents due to SRDP. The living conditions will become uninhabitable as the structure of most houses will be on the road, and many will not have an approach to the main door. Air pollution will affect residents in bedrooms and kitchens of the house are in the affected part. In all probability, certain portions of the house will face demolition partially or totally,” the representation said.
 
 Society members also suggested ‘viable and less expensive’ alternatives.
 
 “To ease the congestion on Road Number 45, a road connecting Road Number 56 to Road Number 68 — which was blocked by the GHMC green belt, already heavily encroached — can be opened up and a fright from KBR Park to   will help ease traffic.”
 
 
