INDORE: Once securing first position in addressing cases registered at  , the district has now dropped to number five spot. The officials said that ‘special closure’ of the cases, mostly of demanding nature, is one the main reasons behind fall in the rank.

 Earlier, while addressing cases registered at the portal, the officials concerned used to ‘partially’ close it while the executives at Bhopal-based call centre used to call the complainants/applicants in order to know their satisfaction level with the redressal. Their consent was needed to close the case. However, now, to avoid the complaints/applicants to go on higher level and to address maximum   in the given time limit, the departments have started closing the cases at the time of addressing it and thus, the step of checking satisfaction-level of the complainants is being overlooked.
 
  The ‘special closure’ of the complaints of ‘demanding’ nature has also turned out to be reason behind the negative marking. “The complaints/applications of demanding nature include demand for facilities like roads, gardens etc. and benefits under different schemes including Housing for All, ration cards etc.” a senior   official said.
 
 The cases in which complainants/applicants are not eligible to be benefitted or their applications are not feasible are closed specially. “In such cases, the complainants/applicants do not show their satisfaction and thus, the cases last for long while there will be no other solution but the special closure,” he said.
 
 Dvisional commissioner   said, “The position does not matter but the number of disposal is. Our focus is on addressing maximum complaints/applications by providing required treatment to each case.”
 
 At CM Helpline’s portal, 60 per cent weightage is given on ‘satisfaction’ of the complainants/applicants. With a change in their ways of working introduced in last around two months, different departments concerned have started bypassing the option of partial closure of the complaints/applicants.
 
 
