HYDERABAD:   won the first biggest title for India in 2018 by emerging triumphant in the Swiss Open Super 300   tournament in   on Sunday.

 
 Though they reached the finals, neither   (Indonesia Masters) nor PV   (India Open) could clinch the titles this season. But Sameer faced no such final blues as he notched up a fluent victory against former Jan O Jorgensen of Denmark 21-15, 21-13.
 
 The   trainee needed just 36 minutes to ease past the former world No.2. Jorgensen, who won the World Championships bronze in 2015, was out of sorts as Sameer looked in full low. Sameer started with a 3-0 lead in the first game and the closest Jorgensen came was at 10-12. Sameer then produced a five-point burst to took the issue beyond the Dane.
 
 Sameer was even more dominant in the second game as he took off from 11-9 to 17-9 in one serve.
 
 A few hours earlier about 720 kilomtres away from Basil, Sameer's senior pro   clinched the Austrian Open.
 
 Ending a long title drought,   annexed the Austrian Open International Challenge title with a convincing victory against June Wei Cheam of Malaysia 23-21, 21-14. The 31-year-old, who was struggling to comeback after recurring injuries, was in complete control despite a tough first game.
 
 Having enduring tough time ever since he won the Commonwealth Games men's singles gold at Glasgow in 2014, Kashyap is pleased with the victory.
 
 "For any player it is important to win titles, I've to get into a habit of winning titles," Kashyap told ToI from Vienna. The seasoned campaigner is always hailed as the shuttler who make rapid strides before the younger lot led by   began dominating men's singles.
 
 Kashyap always believes that he has several good years of badminton left in him. Even last year he reached the finals of US Open.
 
 The shuttler now wants to focus on getting some ranking points which would help him improve his ranking. "With this win I will get some points which will help to improve my ranking. I am playing some tournaments in Europe next month. So I hope to continue this winning form there as well. I've to keep improving myself," he said.
 
