TRICHY: The present generation has to take up research in order to take the space program of   (Isro) to the next level for future generations, said its chairman K   while addressing the 34th Convocation Day of Bharathidasan University. He said that a lot of effort was needed to realise a full scale re-usable launch vehicles, as   has been working to develop high performance launch vehicle and satellites at a cheaper cost.

 Sivan said that rocket science was not as people assume and said everyone can contribute to it as interdisciplinary knowledge is required to solve many problems. He told students that there was nothing wrong in understanding other areas while specialising in one area. He urged young research scholars to take an integrated approach to subjects as the problems ahead of us were multidisciplinary in nature and a synergy between experts of various disciplines is needed to solve them.
 
 Explaining the similarities of scientific temper and rational thinking, he asked the young researchers not to accept facts simply on the basis of tradition and develop objective thinking. 
 
 While talking to reporters at the airport, Sivan said that Isro will continue to outsource work to private companies so that youth benefit from it. When asked about the failure of few satellites allegedly because the work was handed over to private companies, Sivan said that the satellites did not fail, but the launch vehicles failed a few times.
 
 “Satellites developed by experts from private companies are very good in quality. If we want to flourish, we should give private companies a chance too, otherwise only limited number of people would benefit. A number of youth will benefit if the work was evenly distributed to private players too,” he opined.
 
 He also said that the   11 satellite is set to be launched during the month of April or May 2018. Since it is the heaviest satellite which is being made in India, with 5.7 tonnes, it has been decided to be launched from  , as we only have the capability to launch 4-tonne satellite, he added.
 
 “Meanwhile, the   GSAT 6A is all set to be launched in the last week of March. IRNSS 1I will be launched within a week. The main purpose of launching all these satellites is to serve the people in a better way”, he said.
 
  On answering to question whether there is any plan to extend the life of the satellite, Sivan said they have started to improve perfusion electric system. If it works out, then, we need not send big propellers. The satellites will function by using the new electric system, which will help to extend the life of satellites, he added.
 
 A total 1,246 candidates received their PhD’s that includes 630 female candidates. This apart, 87,039 candidates received their degrees in absentia. 
 
 
