PATNA: The universities in   will implement   ( ) at the postgraduation stage from the next academic session beginning in July. A decision to this effect was taken at a high-level meeting of vice-chancellors and academics at Raj Bhavan on Wednesday.

 The experts discussed the nuances of CBCS and how to implement it at undergraduate and postgraduate levels. Other aspects related to CBCS, like semester grade point average (SGPA), cumulative grade point average (CGPA), mobility options and credit transfers besides the course coding, core courses, elective course and self study and skill based courses were also discussed. 
 
 The   had directed the universities to implement CBCS both at undergraduate and postgraduation level from the 2015-16 academic session itself. More than a year back, the chancellor had constituted a three-member committee comprising then Nalanda Open University VC Rash Bihari Prasad Singh, then L N Mithila University VC S P Singh and Veer Kunwar Singh University acting   to finalize the CBCS draft. The committee reportedly submitted its report to the chancellor in December 2016, but the same did not get his approval. Now, the universities have been asked to draft new syllabi of different subjects based on CBCS so that a uniform curriculum may be prescribed for all the universities.
 
 Presiding over the meeting, governor-cum-chancellor Satya Pal Malik expressed concern at the poor gross enrolment ratio (14.4%) in higher education in the state, which is much lower than the national average (24.5%). “While increasing access to higher education is vital for the country, care must also be taken to address the issues of equity, including social and gender parities. VCs and deans of faculties should work collectively with a view to bringing about qualitative improvement in higher education in the state. Universities must churn out qualified, competent and skilled workforce needed for the growth and development of the state as well as country,” the governor said.
 
 
