JAIPUR: The   (CBFC) has come under fire from the proposed members of advisory committee to the   for not taking their views before clearing the film Padmavat for screening on January 25.

 The six-member advisory committee to CBFC formed after consultation with the state government was never called for the screening. All members have confirmed TOI to have received a call either personally from the CBFC chief Prasoon Joshi or his office inviting them for their expert views on the film ‘Padmavat’.
 
 B L Gupta, a retired history professor, received a call on December 22 from Joshi inviting him for his views. He expressed disappointment over the attitude of CBFC which had formally invited him to become a part of advisory committee later shown the film to another committee.
 
 “They shouldn’t have invited me at the first place if they were not serious about extending an invitation. Secondly, it’s their prerogative to grant permission or not to any movie,” said Gupta, who is retired professor from Rajasthan University.
 
 R S Khangarot (principal of Agrawal College, Jaipur) had earlier told TOI that he had vocally raised his objection for the movie can be a possible reason that another committee was shown the film. 
 
  (Erstwhile ruler of Banswara) earlier told TOI that they will follow the royals of Udaipur stand on the movie. While the Raghuveer Singh (Erstwhile ruler of Sirohi) has refused to comment.   (erstwhile royal of Udaipur) remained unavailable for the comment. 
 
 Head of History department, IGNOU, Delhi, Kapil   is shocked to see that the film is passed for screening even after the advisory panel has raised serious objection on content.
 
 Talking to TOI over phone from Delhi, Kumar said that the film if remained what was shown to them is set to create discord among communities and religions. “Either it’s a fiction or non-fiction as nothing can be historical fiction. This film is a sheer distortion of facts and putting a disclaimer would not bring any change in the mind set of viewers,” said Kumar.
 
 He explained under the present hyper sensitive environment some dialogues, scenes and scenes are not good for Hindus-Muslims and Rajputs-Brahmins.
 
 “The role of history is to fill the gap but not to intensify the faultiness,” said Kumar. 
 
 Instead a three member committee including Arvind Singh Mewar (custodian of Mewar dynasty), Chandramani Singh (Historian) and   (head of History department) who was also part of the former committee was shown the movie on December 29. 
 
 
