KOLKATA: App   will incorporate pick-up and drop-off points on their apps, as instructed by the Kolkata Police that has introduced 108 such spots on 26 thoroughfares, such as Central Avenue, Chowringhee, Strand Road, Diamond Harbour Road and AJC Bose Road. An award-and-punishment system for the drivers have also been introduced to make the rides safer.

 App  , during multiple meetings with the cops of Lalbazar and elsewhere—some drivers met at the Gariahat police station—requested the police to “go slow” on fines over drop off/pick-up points. “Service providers, such as Uber, have agreed to make the changes on their app. Till the revision, we will continue spreading awareness on this matter,” said Sumit Kumar, DC (traffic). The other major app-cab service provider, Ola, sent positive feedback as well, said a source. The traffic police pointed out that the move would have two-pronged effect: first, drivers and passengers would have a clear idea about where to meet or end the trips, ruling out last-minute confusion, and secondly, passengers could no longer blame the drivers for “abiding by the rules”.
 
 The two sides also agreed on certain points to ensure a safer drive. The police have asked the service providers to introduce a reward-and-punishment system for drivers. “We are keeping tabs on traffic rule violations by app-cab drivers. Say, a fortnight or a month later, we will tally our findings and send them to the aggregators. We have suggested that they punish the worst lot and promote those who rarely break laws,” said DC Kumar. Besides, the app-cab service providers were instructed to carry out random checks to keep an eye on speeding vehicles. “We have our speed guns. But as those taxis are GPRS-enabled, the aggregators can check how long a car takes to cross a particular stretch, say, the Maa flyover, and then decide if it is speeding,” claimed a senior police officer.
 
 The police are creating a driver tally-—just like that for bus drivers—where they can send texts directly to the 25,000-odd drivers. This, claimed Lalbazar, would not only help them keep a driver database, but also check if the person registered with a company was actually behind the wheel. “This database will help us identify a driver immediately in case of an emergency,” said an officer.
 
 Uber and Ola spokespersons said they were committed to working with police to provide a safe journey to patrons.
 
