NEW DELHI: Plunging the party into an unprecedented crisis, the central committee of the Communist Party of India-Marxist on Sunday rejected a draft political resolution moved by its general secretary Sitaram  , favouring a tactical alliance with the Congress in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. 

 Two draft political resolutions, one by Yechury and the other by his predecessor Prakash Karat, were sent for discussion to the three-day CC meeting in Kolkata. While both agreed on the need to fight the BJP and communal forces, the documents differed on whether there should be an “understanding” with Congress or not. 
 
 Karat’s document, which also had the backing of the larger numbers in the Politburo, prevailed by a 55-31 margin and will now be sent to the party congress. 
 
 Sources said while Yechury may not throw in the towel just yet, and wait for the final vote at the party congress in Hyderabad in April, the second rebuff in quick succession — the first being his attempt to secure a third term in the Rajya Sabha — has led to questions over whether he will have the “moral authority” to continue as party general secretary. On Sunday, while resisting a vote on the draft resolution, Yechury also reportedly asked whether he could “continue (as general secretary) after this”? 
 
 His offer to step down as general secretary of the CPM was, however, dismissed by party colleagues who backed him and said he must continue and see the fight to the finish—the party Congress in Hyderabad in April, until which time amendments to the draft political resolution are still accepted. 
 
 Later, at a press briefing, Yechury said, “As per the adopted draft, there is no understanding or electoral alliance with the Congress. But the final decision on that can only be taken at the party congress in Hyderabad. That will be the party’s political line for the next three years.” The adopted draft resolution will now be circulated among the party’s rank and file and may be amended at the Hyderabad meeting. 
 
 This is not the first time a proposal moved by the general secretary has been turned down by the central committee. In 1996, following a hung Parliament, when V P Singh suggested that veteran Marxist Jyoti Basu become PM, a proposal to this effect was moved by then CPM general secretary Harkishen Singh Surjeet. After divisions in the politburo, the proposal was turned down by the CC on the ground that the party, even with Basu at the helm, would not be in a position to dictate its policies to the coalition government. Surjeet, however, continued as general secretary. 
 
 While Sunday’s defeat put a question mark on Yechury’s chances of securing a second term when the matter comes up for discussion in the once-in-three-years party congress, the vote also served as a setback to the formation of a comprehensive anti-BJP front on the national level, of which Yechury was seen to be a key partner. This is also serve a challenge to the West Bengal unit of the CPM, which backed Yechury and is now saddled with the prospect of having to deal with the Trinamool juggernaut as well as the BJP, singlehandedly. 
 
 Sections of the CPM, however, said the expression of dissent was only indicative of “true inner party democracy”, and that both factions recognised BJP and communal forces as the key challenges before the Left. 
 
 Yechury also said states going to polls will have their own strategic positions to maximise anti-BJP votes. “Our main opposition is BJP-RSS combine. We will concretise our tactics at the time of election. States will decide on how the maximum number of anti-BJP votes can be pooled,” he said.
 
 Will Budget 2018 propel India to the high-growth trajectory? Will FM Jaitley give a big boost to Bharat, with his Budget? For the sharpest macro-economic analysis and unmatched market coverage, stay tuned with ET NOW all through this month.
  
 
