AHMEDABAD: On Friday, one day after   ( ) leader Pravin   learned about the arrest warrant against him to be issued by a  , he appeared in court and the court cancelled the warrant in connection with a 22-year-old case, of stripping a sitting BJP minister at a party function in 1996.

 Besides Togadia, more than half a dozen accused persons including municipal councilor Krushnakant Brahmbhatt and former councilor Minesh Waghela also appeared and the court cancelled the warrants against them too. All of them were released on bail by the court on furnishing a bond of Rs 15,000. All the accused have been asked to appear in court on January 30.
 
 Togadia made his court visit a show of strength with VHP members thronging the court campus at Gheekanta. They came with posters and banners targeting the government, holding it responsible for the warrants against VHP and BJP leaders in a two-decade-old dormant case. They shouted slogans, and as Togadia was leaving after the proceedings, ‘Jai Shree Ram’ resonated in the courtroom.
 
 Togadia did not mince words when he said, “I am innocent. I was away from the spot where the incident took place. This is a political conspiracy to suppress my voice because I am demanding the construction of the Ram temple and employment for youths. This is an attempt to silence me. Why did I not get any of five summons issued against me? If the court issued summons, why did the police not serve them on me when I come to Gujarat every month. This is being orchestrated by those who try to suppress my voice regarding the Ram temple.” 
 
 Togadia’s advocate, Chetan Shah, also claimed that there was no logic behind issuing arrest warrants because the court had not issued any summons against his client in the past.
 
 BJP MLA Babu Jamna Patel, a co-accused in the case, also appeared before the court and got the warrant against him cancelled. He visited the court in the morning and preferred not to accompany Togadia, who had already announced his programme.
 
 This case has been pending in court since 1996 and it involved incidents following the rift between the Shankersinh Vaghela and   factions in the BJP. At a party meeting at Sardar Patel Stadium on May 20, 1996, Keshubhai’s supporters stripped the dhoti off senior BJP minister Atmaram Patel, who stood by Vaghela. The skirmish took place soon after   had addressed a public meeting there. Thirty-seven persons including Togadia were booked on charges of attempt to murder. 
 
 
