Nagpur: After an excellent performance in the recently-concluded  , where he helped India ‘B’ to title victory, India pacer Umesh Yadav is all set to play   against  .

 The Vidarbha selectors are likely to retain the same squad which had played the   final earlier this year. Vidarbha also received a major boost as medium pacer Lalit Yadav is also declared fit for the crucial encounter, which begins from Wednesday.
 
 Umesh picked up five wickets in three matches at an average of 26.80. His economy rate of 4.78 was the best among the top ten bowlers in the tournament. “It’s great to have him in the squad. Umesh has been bowling extremely well. He looks in good rhythm. His presence will boost our bowling attack,” sources in Vidarbha Cricket Association told TOI.
 
 
 
 With neutral curator from this season, Vidarbha team management has no say over the preparation of the wicket. Sources, however, said the Jamtha wicket is unlikely to offer much to the pacers. “It’s very difficult to have green wicket at this time. The temperature is already around mid 30s so it is unlikely to have much of movement off wicket. There will be grass on the wicket but it will be just to bind the wicket. After initial first hour, it should be a good batting wicket and might offer something to the spinners for the last two days,” sources said.
 
 
 
 Vidarbha’s chief coach (all categories)   will attend BCCI’s Captains and Coaches Conclave in Mumbai on Monday. While VCA officials had expressed their unhappiness over the timing of conclave, BCCI was in no mood to change the date just for one team. “There was no way Faiz (Fazal) and (Chandrakant) Pandit would have attended that conclave. We had no options but to send Subroto,” VCA sources said.
 
 Vidarbha players are preparing for this crucial tie for the past four-five days under watchful eyes of Pandit. The team will be having match simulation session on Monday to have the feel of the crucial contest. Some promising Under-23 and Under-19 youngsters are also practising with the team. “We want them to have them the feel of First Class matches. We need to look at the future,” sources said.
 
 
 
 The Rest of India squad will arrive in the city in bunches. Skipper Karun Nair, his Karnataka teammates Mayank Agrawal and R Samarth, Mumbai opener Prithvi Shaw, Jharkhand left-arm spinner Shahbaz Nadeem will be coming from Indigo Bangalore-Mumbai flight at 4.50 pm. The rest of the squad along with coach WV Raman and rest of the support staff will arrive from Delhi at 4.45 pm. Star off spinner Ravichandran Ashwin’s arrival will be known by Monday afternoon. 
 
 
