NEW DELHI: The tricolour and Gandhi caps once again dotted the landscape at Ramlila Maidan on Friday reminiscent of the India Against Corruption movement in 2011. Octogenarian anti-corruption crusader   had reached there to begin a fast-unto-death for getting the demands related to  , farmers’ issues and electoral reforms met.

 Chanting the slogan “Saksham Kisan, Sashakt Lokpal and Chunav Sudhar”, Hazare demanded a host of reforms in elections, farmers’ issues and Lokpal. In his speech before starting the fast, he focused on the plight of   and targeted the central government for its inaction.
 
 “I have written 43 letters to the Prime Minister, but have received no response. Isn’t it sad that despite being a primarily agrarian nation, so many farmers are dying and no action is being taken?” Anna asked the crowd of around 5,000, mostly comprising farmers from Karnataka, Rajasthan, UP, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra.
 
 The anti-corruption crusader chose Shahidi Diwas as a symbolic occasion and started the strike after visiting Rajghat and Shahidi Park in the morning. “Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev sacrificed their lives for democracy. But is this real democracy?” he asked.
 
 The core committee members managing the protest said that no political activity will be allowed during the sit-in. Hazare also took indirect digs at AAP while introducing Karnataka Lokayukt Santosh Hegde. “Hegde ji is from our original team. Many broke away and become chief ministers and minsters, but he is honest and true to the cause,” he added.
 
 Hazare demanded that Krishi Mulya Ayog be given autonomy equivalent to Election Commission. “Farmers should get 1.5 times the input cost. Proposals for the increase are sent by the states, but the krishi ayog reduces them by 40-50% under pressure from the Centre. The only solution is autonomy for this body,” he added.
 
 “The agriculture minister came to meet me last night and gave me assurances. But we will not go with mere assurances, we need concrete action,” Hazare told the cheering crowd.
 
 The organisations taking part in the protest included Bharatiya Kisan Union, PACL, AISO, Kisan Mazdoor Sangh and TN Cauvery Farmers’ Association. Draped in a tricolour sari, Rajeshwari (70), from Adarsh Virangana Parivar had come there to raise her voice against corrupt officials who had taken away her pension.
 
 
