PATNA: Priyanka Gandhi, former UP chief minister Akhilesh Yadav, chief minister Nitish Kumar, former Jharkhand CMs Hemant Soren and Babu Lal Marandi and former Union law minister Ram Jethmalani, among others are likely to attend the wedding of RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s elder son   with former minister Chandrika Rai’s elder daughter Aishwarya Rai on Saturday.

 “Though there are some security issues with   president Rahul ji and West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee, we are expecting them also at the wedding ceremony,” Lalu’s confidante and RJD MLA Bhola Yadav said and added, “We are expecting more than 12,000 people to attend the wedding. Even the unexpected ones would also turn up at the wedding as Laluji is here.”
 
 Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, however, would not attend the wedding as he is slated to leave for Poland on Saturday to participate in the 10th European Congress. “I wanted to attend Tej’s wedding, but I could not get the tickets for Sunday. I have attended the weddings of Lalu’s daughters and extend my blessings to   and his would-be wife as well,” SuMo told reporters on Friday.
 
 West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee tweeted on Friday: “Heartiest congratulations @laluprasadrjd Lalu Ji on the happy occasion of the marriage of your son. Also happy too that you got bail. Best wishes to your family.” Her tweet came after the Jharkhand high court granted Lalu six-week provisional bail for medical treatment.
 
 Meanwhile, the 10, Circular Road bungalow of Lalu’s family was adorned with marigold flowers and 101 pairs of lemon-chilli to ward off any bad omen. A huge stage has been erected at the sprawling Veterinary College ground where the couple will exchange garlands. Around 200 food counters have been readied to serve exquisite vegetarian food to the guests. The bride’s family has called cooks from Kanpur to make sweets like petha, gulab jamun, kaju barfi, imirti, tikki chat and golgappa. One of the cooks,  , said they were asked to prepare the sweets and bhog for about 12,000 guests. 
 
 Sources said special ‘lahti’ bangles have been made for bride Aishwarya at Baba Lahti Bhandar at Islampur in Muzaffarpur district. The ‘lahti’ bangles bear the pictures of engagement ceremony of Tej and Aishwarya. Aishwarya’s name is embedded on the bangles with coloured glass and stones. Sources said it took almost 10 days to prepare a set of 26 bangles for the grand wedding. 
 
 Haldi Kalash and Marwa rituals were held at the official bungalows of both the families in the new capital area. RJD spokesperson Shakti Yadav told media persons that the guests would be served only vegetarian food as Laluji is a devotee of Lord Shiva. “Cuisines of   like ‘litti chokha’ will also be served to the guests,” he said.
 
 The airconditioned mandap where the bride and groom would exchange vows is also getting erected at the Veterinary College grounds,” RJD MLA Shiv Chandra Ram told this newspaper. 
 
 A dance floor with DJ section has also been prepared near the main stage. The sources said the pandal would be tastefully decorated with variety of flowers and the entrance at the venue would be adorned with Mithila paintings.
 
 The estranged maternal uncles of Tej Pratap — Prabhunath Yadav, Subash Yadav and   — have also been invited for the wedding. 
 
 Baba Ramdev blesses bride and groom: Yoga guru Baba Ramdev visited both Tej Pratap and Aishwarya at their respective houses on Friday and blessed them. 
 
 Talking to media persons at 5 Circular Road, the residence of Aishwarya, Ramdev said he blessed the bride and groom for a happy and prosperous married life. 
 
 He also congratulated Lau on getting six-week provisional bail and advised him to perform yoga for a healthy life. After receiving blessings from Ramdev, Tej Pratap tweeted: “Before the new beginning of my life, I received the blessing of Baba Ramdev. I’m grateful that he spared few minutes from his busy schedule to give his blessings”.
 
 
