BENGALURU: The  , which spearheaded the recent movement for a separate religion status, on Saturday launched a scathing attack on the panchapeetas of the Veerashaiva community. It asked community leaders who are true to the teachings of 12th century social reformer   to disown the   ( ) and its six-point resolution passed on Friday.

 Convener of Jagatika Lingayat Samudaya (JLS) and former bureaucrat S M Jaamdar said: “The AIVM does not represent Lingayats and it has been our stand from the beginning. Following the AIVM’s six-point resolution, we are calling those who call themselves true Lingayats and followers of Basavanna to disown the AIVM and join the community or the resolution must be withdrawn.’’ According to him,   themselves are not sure of their origin and therefore their claims and resolutions for the Lingayat community do not hold water.
 
 “In 1881, four prominent personalities under the Mysuru kingdom asked the then king to remove the Lingayats from the shudra (Scheduled Caste) list and consider them as Veeramaheshvara Brahmins. The community, which had followers from all castes, had rejected the tag. In 2002, the panchapeetha seers signed a letter asking to be considered as Bedarajangamma, a Scheduled Caste. With such contradictory statements, who are they to question us?” Jaamdar asked.
 
 Jaamdar said the panchapeetha seers demand the pallaki (palanquin) to be ferried on the backs of Lingayats. “Are they believers of Basavanna? The philosophy of Basavanna was the rejection of brahminical traditions,” he added.
 
 The forum said they had no agenda to divide the Hindu community. “When our philosophy itself is different from the Veerashaivas, where is the question of division? The Lingayats and Veerashaivas, from the very beginning, have different traditions and cultures. There are 27 differences cited in observing our religion and that of the Veerashaivas,” Jaamdar said.
 
 On reports that the Centre is unlikely to sanction minority religion status to Lingayats, citing there are members from the community who are also included in the SC list and will lose the reservation, Jaamdar said it was true even in the case of Sikhs and Jains.
 
 “Let reservation continue for even those Lingayats who are part of the SC community, like it was done for the Sikh community,” he maintained.
 
 On the forum’s next step if the Centre rejects the state government decision of according Lingayats minority religion status, Jaamdar said: “We’ll intensify our struggle, and this time we’ll have a major force behind us as there is a nationwide support for the movement.”
 
 Even as the   (AIVM) condemned the state government move that Veerashaivas who believe in Basavanna’s philosophy will be given minority status, the Jagatika Lingayat Samudaya released a February 2014 letter written by the AIVM seeking the same from the Centre.
 
 The letter written by AIVM president and Congress MLA Shamanur Shivashankarappa had sought a separate religious status for Veerashaiva-Lingayats, and a separate code number for the religion. “The letter, whose content has been rejected by the national minority commission, is still pending for action with the home ministry. Now, the letter is significant as it outlines the same arguments as we have presented and mirrors the state government’s decision of including Veerashaivas who believe in Basavanna’s tattva,” said Jaamdar.
 
