NAGPUR: Maharashtra edged out Kerala 5-4 to start their campaign on a rousing note in the Mayor’s Cup Sub-Junior, Junior and   which got underway at the   here on Friday.

 
 The three-day tournament is being jointly organized by the   (CPFI), Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), Nagpur District Amateur   Association and  .
 
 Maharashtra had a tough opener against Kerala. However, hosts displayed brilliant performance to post a narrow 5-4 win against their southern rivals. Captain Leshant Dahake led from the front and scored three goals. He got good support from Jay Uke and Mohit Khobragade, who chipped in with a goal apiece.
 
 For Kerala, Faizal waged a lone battle with three goals, while Mannu scored a goal but could not stop hosts from registering a thrilling victory.
 
 In other matches, fancied teams had no problem winning their league matches to advance in the tourney. Territorial Army crushed Tamil Nadu 15-0. They also recorded a couple of more easy wins by trouncing Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh.
 
 Guarding minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule was the chief guest and inaugurated the competiton. Mayor Nanda Jichkar, MLA Sudhakar Deshmukh, CPFI joint secretary VR Channawar, treasurer PM Abubekar, Dilip Diwe, Sushma Chaudhari, Sneha Nikose, Sanjay Burrewar, Mamta Sahare, Narendra Valde, Dinesh Sarve, Rajkishor Mohanty and Milind Patle were the guests of honour.
 
 CPFI general secretary Gajanan Burde made an introductory remark. NMC sports committee chairman Nagesh Sahare, Naresh Chaudhari, Jitendra Gaikwad, SR Lunge and Sandeep Jadhav were present on the occasion. On Saturday, matches will begin from 8 am and will end at 6 pm.
 
 RESULTS
 
 Seniors: UP bt AP 10-1; Rajasthan bt Jammu and Kashmir 14-0; Orissa bt Bihar 6-0; Indian Air Force bt West Bengal 13-0; Territorial Army bt Tamil Nadu 15-0; Gujarat bt MP 5-2; Territorial Army bt AP 17-1; Indian Air Force bt Karnataka 13-0; Territorial Army bt UP 10-1; Chhattisgarh drew with Rajasthan 3-3; Indian Army bt Chhattisgarh 8-3; Maharashtra bt Kerala 5-4.
 
 Juniors: Maharashtra bt Karnataka 7-0; Kerala bt J and K 8-0; Karnataka bt Rajasthan 3-1.
 
 Sub-Juniors: Chhattisgarh bt UP 3-1; Rajasthan bt Kerala 3-1; Karnataka bt West Bengal 6-1.
 
 
