At a time when government agencies and bank authorities are persuading people to adopt cashless modes of payment, police have been flooded with complaints of online cheating, ATM, credit and debit card frauds.

 The cyber cell has received 571 complaints from January 1 till May 21, implying that almost four fraud cases have been reported daily on an average. Notably, 354 complaints are related to credit card/ debit car misuse and online transactions by asking PIN details.
 
  
  
 
 The cyber cell has 15 categories for   complaints. According to data, date cyber cell police received 202 complaints under online transactions by using debit/credit card details and online shopping accounts till May 21. The cyber cell got 143 complaints related to ATM credit and debit card misuse and cloning in the same period.
 
 As many as 92 residents have approached the cyber cell for complaints related to harassment, abusive messages on their social accounts and on WhatsApp. The maximum number of complainants were female. The police are also investigating 73 complaints related to hacking of social sites and email ids. However, police got these complaints till April 30.
 
 
 
 
 Cyber police have received 61 complaints related to online cheating for job, visa, work permit, winning online lotteries, providing loan and cheating on the pretext of   policy.
 
 The police said it was not necessary that all the complaints were converted into FIRs. Some cases were settled with a compromise and in some cases people were reluctant to lodge an FIR.
 
 IT expert   said the number of complaints have been rising and a separate cyber police station is needed in the city, like the ones in Jaipur, Bangalore, and Hyderabad. The only cyber police station is not enough. “Staff need to be trained and there should be enough experts to deal with cyber frauds,” he said. The police have started a process of setting a separate cyber police station in city. Cops are being sent to take training in cybercrime.
 
 
 
 
 The cyber cell had announced that if any online fraud victim approaches the cell within 24 hours of the fraud, their money can be reverted back to their account. Last year, cyber cell refunded Rs 1.10 crore.
 
 
