At the #NotInMyName protests on Sunday evening, several hundred Delhiites assembled near the   police station to protest against the   and Unnao rape cases. The general thought that pervaded the gathering was that it reminded them of the protests during the Nirbhaya incident. “We were here on the roads protesting against the Nirbhaya gang-rape, observing Nirbhaya anniversaries, charting that same route shouting slogans, reciting poems of Faiz, demanding justice, but little did we know that we will have to assemble again, this time again to protest against two rape cases. Nothing has changed in six years, and now silence is not an option.” they said. 

  
    at the protests in Mumbai
 
  
 
 While Bollywood celebs joined protests at   in Mumbai, Parliament Street in Delhi had college students and lawyers urging Delhiites to raise their voice against these incidents. Actress  , who was part of these protests in 2012, joined protesters at Parliament Street on Sunday too. 
 The protestors said that we shouldn’t be silent about assaults on women, and this time, their angst will surely not die. Lawyer and activist Vrinda Grover said, “Unko (government) maloom hai humko kabhi-kabhi gussa aata hai. Unko maloom hai hum kabhi kabhi sadak par utrenge.”
 
 
  
    at the protests in Mumbai
 
  
 
 The protestors said that even if coming out together in solidarity doesn’t mean that a huge change will happen, but this angst needs to be kept alive. Abhilasha Pandey, who works in the BPO sector, said, “In college, our teachers used to tell us how college students and professionals took to the streets in 2012. And we used to hope that we never have to gather on the streets again to protest against rapes and inaction that scale because it’s all been done. Now, standing here today, I think we have gone backwards – it’s a hate crime this time. I didn’t know what else to do other than posting on social media, so I came with my friends to join this protest.”
 
 
 Sumit Verma, a social activist, said, “We were here then, in 2012, and we are here now. Log so jate hain. Unhe jagane mein waqt lagta hai. It broke my heart to see these dolls and these kids on the road. It’s Sunday and they should have been in parks, but these kids are here for the last three hours. I don’t know what they think they are protesting against, but it’s heartbreaking to see these little girls with broken dolls.”
 
  
  Protesters in Delhi
 
 
 Retired civil servants also joined the protest and read out an open letter, in which they urged Prime Minister   to reach out to the families of the Kathua and Unnao rape victims.
 
  
  Kids joined the protest with broken dolls
 
  
  
 
 
