Six years after   host and doctor Michael Mosley’s documentary “Eat, Fast, and Live Longer” aired on  , fasting regimens variously known as ‘Fast Diet’, ‘5:2 Diet’, ‘Mosley Diet’, or just intermittent fasting, are all the rage in the West. Beyonce and   are said to swear by them.   geeks, who were into “meal replacement” drinks only a year or so ago, are now among ardent practitioners.

 Unlike the dieters of the past century, intermittent fasters are not aiming to lose weight alone. For them, fasting is “biohacking”, like race-tuning an engine or overclocking a computer processor. In its new market-ready avatar, fasting is claimed to improve focus and productivity, and even extend life. As Mosley assures on his “The 5:2 Fast Diet” website, intermittent fasting is a “well-signposted path towards a longer, healthier life; weight loss is simply a happy adjunct to all of that.”
 
 If fasting were simply a matter of not eating for long hours or a few days, as it has been for centuries, there would be no buzz around and no money in it. However, these are days of fasting experts and million-dollar deals. Should you eat regular meals for five days and then cut back on the next two, eat light daily, or eat only within a four-hour window every day? There’s a guru for each of those views.
 
 Venture capitalists are interested in fasting. Geoffrey Woo, co-founder of the firm Hvmn (pronounced ‘human’), which makes dietary supplements that mimic the effects of fasting, says in a Bloomberg Businessweek article that he expects fasting to become a multibillion-dollar industry.
 
 Although the jury is still out, those who back intermittent fasting claim it’s the default way human bodies were designed to work. Cavemen couldn’t bet on getting three meals a day, plus snacks and beverages. They went hungry some days without collapsing, and running on empty only sharpened their focus on survival. So it must be good for us, too, goes the argument.
 
 It’s certainly good business. For instance, PlateJoy is a meal-plan app that encourages users to eat all their meals within a few hours, and fast for the greater part of the day. It costs $230 a year to subscribe, but health insurance companies pick up the tab when customers actually lose weight. Hvmn has endurance athletes in its sights, and sells three 25g bottles of its ketone ester for $99. It’s already got more than $5 million from investors.
 
 L-Nutra, a company started by   professor  , is targeting sales of $12 million this year, and more than twice as much next year. Their five-day fasting diet package containing soups, breakfast bars, supplements, etc, costs $250. It’s a sign of the times that even the online learning site Udemy now has a paid course called “The Ultimate Intermittent Fasting & Fast Weight Loss Course”.
 
 American writer Upton Sinclair believed in fasting as a cure, but he was against making a habit of it, saying it was like someone repeatedly “sweeping rain water out of his house, instead of taking the trouble to repair his roof.” That means moderate living round the year, but there’s no sexy app for it.
 
