Coimbatore: Value education should not be a separate subject, but be inculcated in all subjects and teaching methods in schools and colleges for creating responsible citizens, said Atul Kothari, secretary of Shiksha Sanskriti Utthan Vyas (SSUV) on Monday.

 Speaking at a workshop for teachers on ‘Inclusive Higher Education in Changing National Priorities’, Kothari said even 70 years after independence, we were not sure what the aim of education was. 
 
 “Character building should be the aim of education. Both character building and personality development should be the focus of school and college education,” he said. 
 
 For this, value education should be included in school and higher education systems, said Kothari. “It should also be inculcated through co-curricular activities. There should be conducive atmosphere in schools to learn values,” he added.
 
 Kothari cited the example of a government school for girls in Ujjain, Madhya Pradesh, where the principal, through several measures to inculcate value education, managed to increase the strength of the school from a mere 62 to 590. “There is a rule in the school that students who come late should sit in the stairs till the prayer is over. The principal extended the rule also to teachers. Once the principal happened to come late and accepted the same punishment,” Kothari said.
 
 Such an atmosphere should be created in all schools and colleges, where the life of both students and teachers would change, said Kothari. 
 
 Earlier, A Elayaperumal, director of students’ affairs, Anna University, said the quality of technical education in the state has been declining as institutions are focusing only on marks and not on making responsible engineers.
 
 He said on an average 40% of students do not graduate from engineering. “In the rest 60%, 20% are unemployable. They could not even phrase a sentence in Tamil or English. Another 20% of them have good command over language, but they lack technical knowledge. The remaining 20% have knowledge, degree and are employable. But they don’t have moral education,” he said.
 
 Elayaperumal said the onslaught of technological development has also caused a moral degradation among students. “Now all negative information is easily passed to students through SMSs,” he said.
 
 The workshop was organized by SSUV, an organisation that promotes education in mother tongue and in accordance with ‘Indian’ values, and PSG Institute of Management here.
 
 “Our organization also works for including Vedic mathematics, value education and environment education in school and college curriculum,” said A Vinod, member SSUV. 
 
 
