While earlier political parties had to go around making pleas for funds, this time, affectionate voters are giving generous offerings to their candidates. They are openly sharing their wealth to fund the campaign of candidates, especially those from poor backgrounds. Of course, all this too will be caught by in the watchful eyes of expenditure observers.
 
 The trend is seen in the   region. While a few are donating cash to the tune of several lakhs, a few are parting with whatever is regarded as ‘wealth’ in the region—sheep or livestock in Vijayapura and bags full of grocery in   region.
 
 JD(S) candidate   was taken aback when while visiting villages of Indi constituency of Vijayapura taluk, he was gifted with sheep by the villagers. 
 “Had it been one or two, I could have accepted it as a token of gratitude. But in every village it has almost become a trend. Villagers in many villages have collectively gifting 20-30 sheep and requesting to fund my poll expenses by selling them in the market. Many are openly expressing that more than money livestock are considered as wealth and they are sharing part of it to fund my expenses as I am from poor background,” he said.
 
 Patil, who belongs to the Kuruba (shepherd) community has a big fan following since his student days. “I could not pursue B.Ed degree a decade ago as my family could not afford the `8,000 donation. Since then I have been actively leading student movement. People have been saying that it would be impossible with our background to fight polls dominated by national parties. So far, I have been given 60-70 sheep and I have been insisting that they take them back. I don’t have to do politics by selling farmers’ wealth like sheep, goat. Instead if they just support me with their vote, that will be the greatest support,” Patil said.
 
 Similarly, in Koppal, BJP candidate from   constituency   Dadesugoor has been gifted with bags full of groceries like paddy, jowar and maize. “The people’s gesture has stunned me. Several bags full of groceries are presented to me whichever village I visit. On Sunday also I was presented with 101 gunny bags full of paddy by villagers of Siddapura. I have been telling people I do not want their wealth but wholehearted support. Yet people are forcibly coming forward to present me with groceries,” Basavaraj said.
 
 Reacting to this, Chief Electoral Officer Sanjiv Kumar said, “The donations from voters to candidates in any form funding the expenses of campaign will be thoroughly inquired and based on the report, we will consider whether that can be clubbed with the expenses of the candidate.”
