CHANDIGARH: Untimely payment has forced the Sector-35 resident welfare association ( ) to surrender all 43 neighbourhood   it was managing on behalf of the municipal corporation.

 Foswac (Federation of Sector Welfare Associations of Chandigarh) general secretary J S Gogia said his Sector-35 RWA had surrendered the maintenance of the parks over the delay in disbursement of payment by the MC. He said: “The official communication was sent to the MC and now the RWA has no role in maintaining the parks, since the civic body has accepted the proposal of surrender.”
 
 There is a long list of other RWAs, including those in Sectors 34 and 44, that are planning on the same lines to surrender their parks to the authorities, since the amount that the MC releases is very nominal and it has not been revised since 2013 when the scheme was started. Several RWA have gone to their area councillors and municipal officials with a demand to revise the rates of the maintenance funds for the parks, since the cost is now almost double of what the authorities have been paying them.
 
 The MC says the RWAs get Rs 2.48 paise per square feet for the maintenance of parks, and the price was fixed in 2013. Members of these RWA say that the MC is paying them almost Rs 3,500 for each park, while the operational cost has touched Rs 7,000 now, since the cost of labour and equipment had increased. They said it had become difficult to maintain the parks without money. Foswac chairman Baljinder Singh Bittu said rules allowed the municipal authorities to sign an MoU (memorandum of understanding) with the RWAs that are at least three years old, but the norm was not being followed and the money was being disbursed to new associations.
 
 He said the RWAs were receiving Rs 1.50 to Rs 2 per square feet, instead of Rs 2.48 per square feet that was the actual cost of maintenance. “The civic authorities deduct money for various expenditures,” he said. “The MC is spending Rs 6 per square feet on maintaining the parks under its control.”
 
 Foswac vice-chairman Hitesh Puri said: “My association was maintaining five neighbourhood parks of its area and facing acute shortage of money to meet the dayto-day expenses. Adding to the woes of the association is the fact that even the tertiarywater supply is also irregular in some of the parks. That’s why we are struggling to maintain it.”
 
