CHENNAI: Every time the corporation fogs a locality to smoke out mosquitoes, residents come out of their homes complaining of burning eyes and a gasoline-like smell that causes wheezing. Mosquitoes are not the only targets, their victims, who often pass their evenings swatting them, too are within the firing range of the corporation.

 But now, a small  , can kill mosquitoes in a non-toxic, odourless manner, and even keep count of the dead ones. 
 
 The device, named Bogorchid, developed by a startup incubated at  , uses synthetic pheromones which mimic human odour to attract mosquitoes and kill them in a special chamber.
 
 
  
 
 Hemachandra Bhovi, director of the startup, said the device is non-toxic as it works on pheromones, a chemical secreted by humans and animals. 
 
 “We have developed a machine that works on one of the many parameters that attract mosquitoes. Unlike repellents available in the market, which are toxic in nature and only keep the   away, our machine kills the insect,” he said.
 
 The team has developed a synthetic variant of pheromone with food grade material in the form of a liquid to attract mosquitoes. When fitted to the plugged-in device, scent of the pheromone attracts mosquitoes to the device’s suction fan that traps it in a killing chamber. The suction fan breaks the antenna of the mosquito, killing it. For the developers, the idea of the killing chamber was simple -- the dead mosquitoes should not litter the house. The mosquitoes can be disposed of, or can be used by entomologists to study the type of species breeding in different locations.
 
 Pheromones are chemicals secreted in animals for communication. 
 
 Humans secrete certain chemicals through their sweat, saliva and urine. Mosquitoes get attracted to the scent of these chemicals in both humans and animals alike. Female mosquitoes bite and draw blood because they need the protein in the blood to lay eggs. 
 
 Scientists at the Agricultural Research Service of the United States Department of Agriculture say human skin gives off more than 340 different chemical scents, some of which mosquitoes find irresistible.
 
 The machine, which was under development for nearly seven years, was tested in about 100 locations in the city. The startup has developed two variants for indoor and outdoor purposes. 
 
 The indoor ones can cover a space of 2,000sqft and an outdoor unit can cover about 10,000sqft.
 
 
