PUNE/AURANGABAD: Nationalist Congress Party’s (NCP) co-opted corporator Kailas Rambhau Girwale, one of the suspects arrested for ransacking the office of the   superintendent of police (SP) on April 7, died on Monday night while being treated at the   in Pune.

 On April 7, a mob of more than 250 supporters of NCP MLA Sangram Jagtap had barged into the office of the Ahmednagar SP and ransacked the premises, after Jagtap was rounded up for questioning in connection with the murders of Shiv Sena leaders   and Vasant Thube at Shahunagar, Kedgaon, in Ahmedagar earlier in the day. 
 
 Girwale (55) was among 20-odd men arrested in relation to the ransacking act for offences including rioting, use of criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty, voluntarily causing grievous hurt to deter public servant from his duty and trespass. He was under judicial custody when shifted to   on Sunday (April 15) after he had complained of chest pain.
 
 Ahmednagar SP Ranjankumar Sharma stated in a press release, “Girwale died in the hospital around 10.50pm on Monday. The hospital has given a report that Girwale died due to a heart attack. The Bund Garden police have registered a case of accidental death. The case has been transferred to CID for a probe.”
 
 Senior inspector M M Mujawar of the Bund Garden police confirmed registration of the case and said, “We have transferred the case papers to the Kotwali police in Ahmednagar for further investigation.”
 
 While a report by the hospital stated that Girwale died of a heart attack, his brother Babasaheb alleged, while speaking to TOI, that Girwale died of injuries he suffered because of excessive police torture in custody. “We want a case of murder to be registered against the police officers responsible for my brother’s death and their arrests,” said Babasaheb. He also gave a complaint letter to this effect to the Bund Garden police. 
 
 Girwale’s death had immediate repurcussions in the politically-sensitive Ahmednagar district where tension has been simmering ever since the twin murders. Scores of his followers started gathering at his residence in Maliwada area of Ahmednagar while many rushed to Pune. His family blamed the Ahmednagar police, especially the crime branch officers, for his death. Girwale’s relatives refused to perform his last rites till an offence was registered against the policemen responsible for his death. A heavy police deployment was made in Ahmednagar to avert any untoward fallout.
 
 A medical officer at the Sassoon General Hospital who did not wish to be identified, said, “Girwale underwent a weight loss (bariatric) surgery a few years ago. After his death, we conducted a post-mortem. The cause of his death was coronary artery disease (CAD) with septicaemia.” CAD causes impaired blood flow in the arteries supplying blood to the heart. Also called coronary heart disease (CHD), it is the most common form of heart disease and a leading cause of death.
 
 According to the release issued by Sharma, Girwale was arrested on April 8 and was in police custody till April 10. Later, he was sent to the Nashik central prison after being remanded in judicial custody. “On April 10, a separate case (involving sale and supply of illicit liquor) was registered against Girwale with the Kotwali police station under the Bombay Prohibition (Maharashtra) Act and he was taken into custody from the prison on April 13,” Sharma stated. Girwale was produced before the court in Ahmednagar on April 14 and was remanded in police custody for a day.
 
 “When Girwale started complaining of chest pain on Sunday (April 15), he was first taken to the civil hospital in Ahmednagar. He was then referred to the Sassoon General Hospital in Pune,” Sharma stated. “Girwale was taken to the Sassoon General Hospital with the court’s permission. His relatives wanted to take him to a private hospital in Pune but the doctors at the Sassson General Hospital did not allow them to shift Girwale without the court’s permission,” he added. “After the court granted permission, a team from the private hospital visited the Sassoon General Hospital on Monday afternoon and examined him. They told Girwale’s relatives that it would be risky to shift him,” Sharma stated.
 
 The SP said that another medical practitioner from the private hospital went to the Sassoon General Hospital and examined Girwale again in the evening. “He too had given a report that shifting Girwale was medically not advisable,” Sharma stated. Later, he had to be put on a life support system and he passed away at 10.50pm on April 16. 
 
 
 
 Girwale’s brother Babasaheb said, “We had met him the day after he was arrested on April 8. He told me and his wife about the beating by the police. My brother had marks all over his body. He was a very strong person but he looked completely dejected when I met him. My brother did not have blood pressure or a sugar problem. He used to exercise daily. I cannot believe a heart attack could be the reason behind his death.” 
 
 Babasaheb said his brother was a firm person and was always in the lead on every issue. “There is a political conspiracy behind my brother’s death. We want a case of murder registered against the persons responsible for my brother’s death,” Babasaheb said.
 
 
 
 Hundreds of supporters of   stopped the ambulance carrying his body at Supa in Ahmednagar, blaming police officers for his death and demanding their arrest. Girwale’s wife has lodged a complaint at Kotwali police station against inspector Dilip Pawar for her husband’s death. Following the intervention of senior police officers, the complaint was accepted and the family was told that the case has been transferred to the CID. 
 
 Around 5pm on Tuesday, the body was finally brought to Ahmednagar and a huge funeral procession was taken out amidst tight police bandobast. 
 
 Additional forces were deployed in Ahmednagar city and Maliwada, the area to which Girawle belonged. 
 
 Girwale was a two-time corporator and a key Maratha leader in Ahmednagar. He was also the district coordinator for the Maratha Kranti Morcha. In spite of being a leader of the  , he was supported by the NCP to become co-opt member of the Ahmednagar Municipal Corporation.
 
 
