TRICHY: It was not the usual lazy Sunday morning for several Trichiites – especially for the Thillai Nagar residents – as they swarmed in to participate in the   initiative held between 6 am and 9 am in the city on Sunday.

 Times of India, with the support of Trichy Corporation and Trichy City Police, kick-started Happy Streets at Thillai Nagar 10th Cross Street (west) -- which was cleared of vehicles and usual traffic during the event -- and a wide range of fun activities like zumba, cycling, dance and yoga were conducted.
 
 One eye-catching aspect of the event was how people of all age groups showed equal enthusiasm towards trying something new. While many mothers showed keenness towards mastering zumba, school students, who took part in activities such as cycling and dancing, even came up with their own suggestions for the forthcoming Happy Streets programmes. And it turned out to be a festive atmosphere when almost all of the participants joined hands with the dance professionals to shake a leg for some Kollywood chartbusters. Also many traditional games like sack race, cycle tyre rolling, lemon and spoon race, and top spinning were held.
 
 I am very happy that my daughter eagerly woke up early, which she never used to do usually, stated Sriram, who had participated in Happy Streets initiative. “Waking up early and going out to the streets and indulging in physical activities is something kids of today were lacking. Hence it is very important for school students to take part in an initiative like this,” he said.
 
 The day started with a yoga session for the enthusiasts around 6.30 am. Then corporation commissioner N   flagged off Happy Streets. Social activists Allirani Balaji and Dr G Vishwanathan, Specialty Hospitals general manager   were also present at the event. Ravichandran urged the gathering to work towards making Trichy the cleanest city in India.
 
  conducted yoga classes for the participants. One of its volunteers L Lakshmanan spoke about the importance of creating awareness about yoga. “It (yoga) is the most feasible form of physical exercise as one doesn’t need a lot of equipment to practice it – and it doesn’t confine itself to one age group,” he opined. Isha Foundation also distributed around 35 tree saplings for free.
 
 The bharatnatyam dance performances and zumba sessions were conducted by Twilight Dance Studio. One of the founders of the dance group, K  , proudly stated that his team was able to host one of the best dance road shows the city had ever seen. “The concept of road show was not very popular in Trichy but after seeing how parents and children danced along with us, we’re sure the trend will catch up soon,” he said.
 
 I never knew much about zumba before this, said  , another participant. She added that she was pumped up to master the fitness programme in the forthcoming sessions.
 
 Meanwhile, clinical psychologist Dr Randeep Rajkumar gave a powerful talk on ‘strengthening interpersonal relationships’ and spoke to parents about the effective ways of raising children. Vadamalai Balaji, a class VIII student, expressed his delight over participating in an initiative where both parents and children took part. “I want more competitions and games at Happy Streets next week,” he added. 
 
 The Happy Streets initiative will be conducted on every Sunday over the course of next 11 weeks at Thillai Nagar 10th Cross Street (West).
 
 
