Chennai: Members of the South Indian Transport Council (SITCo) are likely to go for an amendment to their vehicle registration rules after a recent meeting of the council to curb attempts by people outside Puducherry to get their vehicles registered in the Union territory to evade tax.

 The Puducherry vehicle registration scam hit the headlines recently after leading film stars and businessmen were pulled up for flouting rules. 
 
 Tamil Nadu has now decided to amend registration rules. Soon, a person wanting to buy a vehicle should submit a copy of their recent gas, mobile phone or utility bills from registered agencies as supplementary evidence when they submit their address proof for registration. 
 
 At present, many register their vehicles using fake addresses in Puducherry to evade tax. They use a loophole in the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicle Rules, 1989, that an affidavit on stamp papers (notarised) can also be accepted as an address proof if the vehicle owner did not have a ration card, driving licence, Aadhar card or other recognised address proofs, said a senior official from the state transport department. 
 
 “Getting this address proof affidavit is easy, cheap and not very reliable. So, in order to plug this loophole, we are working on amending the said rules so that utility bills must be produced as supplementary evidence even if these affidavits are going to be produced as address proofs by the owner.” the official said. 
 
 This registration scam is not something new for Tamil Nadu and the neighbouring states of Kerala and Andhra Pradesh. While vehicle owners have to pay nearly 20% of the vehicle cost as tax in these states, it is just 13% in Puducherry and those buying luxury cars evade tax payments up to Rs 20lakh, say experts. 
 
 The said amendments were likely to be adopted by all the south Indian states and the formal announcement in this respect would be made after the forthcoming SITCo meeting scheduled later this year at Chennai, the official told TOI. 
 
 In a related development, the state transport department has penalised a private omni bus operator near Salem for possessing forged vehicle registration documents. 
 
 “The vehicle registration number printed on the vehicle's number plate pertains to that of a two-wheeler. Preliminary investigations suggest that the operator had purchased the bus from a dealer outside Tamil Nadu,” said another official from the department's enforcement wing.
 
 
