He is returning to Kollywood after almost six years, but director   says he has been keeping track of the industry and its trends. “I last directed   (with Vinay and Prabhu), but was involved as a creative director in Rajinikanth’s Kochadaiiyaan. I couldn’t concentrate on any other script at that time, and soon, I went on to direct Friends in Marathi. But I’m happy to return to K-Town with Trisha’s  ,” he says.
 
 The film is said to be a horror-action thriller, and Madhesh says he couldn’t imagine anyone else other than   playing the lead. “She was unsure about pulling off the role, and was worried that she might not do justice to the action sequences. It was I who had to convince her — she is physically fit and if she fights, audience will believe it. If the film dealt with just horror, I would have considered other actresses, but this one involves hardcore stunt scenes, and Trisha is probably the only one here who can pull it off. I’m not saying this because she’s my heroine, but she is genuinely a good choice for such roles. She is a thorough professional and was clear about doing risky scenes without body doubles right from the beginning. There’s a car chase sequence in the mountains, and anyone would have been scared to do it. But Trisha was eager to shoot the scene; she had to drive in extreme speed, and the curves were dangerous. But she was fab in it,” says Madhesh.
 
 The film involves a lot of VFX — for about 55 minutes, he says. Ask the director if he is prepared to face criticism if the visual effects aren’t received well, and he answers, “No, I’m not prepared for brickbats, because we have put in a lot of effort, time and money into the film and there’s no way we will take a chance. We took a lot of time for pre-production and recce, and had planned every frame before we went on floors. From the earring that Trisha wears to bigger parametres, we had planned everything.”
 
 Ask Madhesh if he chose to return with a heroine-centric film because of the popularity the trend has gained in the last two years, and he answers, “One of the biggest drawbacks in our industry is the lack of heroes. We bring out 200 films a year, but we don’t have so many established heroes. So, filmmakers have to start looking for avenues where their scripts can be the hero. Technically speaking, in Naan Ee, a fly was the hero. This means, filmmakers are trying out newer genres. Kollywood has been churning out heroine-centric films for many years. In Hollywood, action films like Charlie’s Angels and Tomb Raider had heroines in the lead. In Kollywood, I’m sure everyone remembers Vijayashanthi’s movies, and films in which heroines were the backbone of the script. Even Trisha has done some interesting films like that. So, yes, when I wanted to do a film in Tamil, I was concentrating on the script, and not the trend. The idea is to give the audience what they like.”
 
 Taking a break is not a good idea for a filmmaker, because chances of him fading from the memory of audience are high. “I don’t worry about counts; quality matters. Shankar sir does one film in three years, but audience wait for him to release his film.   and Steven Spielberg are big names in the industry, but they have done just a handful of films that are remembered even today. Namma padam kaalam kadandhu pesa padanum. I’m not comparing myself with them or putting my work on the same pedestal as theirs, but I’m just saying that at the end of the day, your work should speak for the time and effort you’ve put in,” he signs off.
 
