CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh bench of   (CAT) has quashed multiple promotions at the Central Board of Excise and  , whereby promotions were granted on the basis of reservations. CAT allowed petition by one of the employees of the department and observed that promotions based on reservations had illegally been used. It has, thus, directed the concerned authorities to prepare a fresh seniority list within three months, which is in accordance to the rules.

 Maheshinder Singh Dhindsa (48), superintendent of customs (preventive), working at the commissioner of customs office in Ludhiana had filed the petition against 16 respondents, out of which 10 are employees, who, he claimed, had been wrongly promoted ahead of him. It was stated in the application that the authorities had ignored the ‘catch up principle’ and wrongly promoted Dhindsa’s juniors from the cadre of superintendent of customs (preventive) to the posts of assistant commissioners of Customs and Central Excise, ahead of him, on the basis of   in promotion. It was also argued that the authorities have violated   directions.
 
 The applicant and the respondents had joined in the year 1992, as preventive officers (customs). The respondents were promoted as superintendents of customs (preventive), on October 17, 2002. However, the applicant, who was senior to them, was promoted against the general category, on May 13, 2003. Thereafter, the applicant and all the private respondents, remained in the cadre of superintendent of customs (preventive), and as such, the applicant became entitled to the benefit of catch up rule for drawing seniority. Then again, in February 2017, the respondents were promoted to the post of assistant commissioners.
  
  
 The order reads, “The competent authority has arbitrarily ignored the principles of catch-up rule with impunity and wrongly applied the policy of reservation.” The bench thus set aside the impugned seniority list of May 2016 along with orders of February 2017, whereby the respondents (junior to the applicant) were promoted to the post of assistant commissioner of customs and central excise. Along with this, the department has also been directed to prepare a fresh and relevant seniority list in the cadre of superintendent of customs (preventive) “by following the principle of catch-up rule and only then to make promotions of eligible candidates, to the post of assistant commissioner of Customs and Central Excise, without applying the policy of reservation in promotion and in consonance with mandate of apex court”, within three months.
 
