HYDERABAD: A fortnight after chief minister   announced he will work towards forming an alternative political alliance at the national level and a day before his trip to Kolkata to meet Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee, vedic scholar and popular almanac reader B   Sastry predicted KCR will take national centrestage.

 
 Sri Vilambi Nama Telugu new year is favourable for KCR in   “Lord Rama was born in Sri Vilambi year. He is suryavanshi. KCR is king or ruler of the state and he will receive strength through sun god to emerge successful,” said Santosh Kumar, while presenting the ‘panchangam’ on occasion of   at Jana Hitha in Pragati Bhavan. CM KCR and several cabinet colleagues attended the ceremony.
  
  
 Reading out the almanac, Santosh Kumar said this year the ruler is sun and chief minister will overcome obstacles and efficiently rule the state and fulfill dream of turning the state into Bangaru Telangana.
 
 
 However, the almanac reader sought to caution cabinet members. “Ministers have to work to catch up with the speed of chief minister to achieve fruits of Sri Vilambi new year. Shani is the mantri,” he said.
 
 
 In another panchangam prediction, the vedic scholar said five to six ministers may not get back berths due to their failure in handling portfolios. “It is not my prediction, but panchangam is indicating it,” he said.
 
 
 He said almanac indicates good rains from October and also possibility of floods in December. “Untimely rain and natural calamities can occur due to mistakes committed by us. Ill effects could be reduced by offering prayers,” he said. There would be a good crop with demand and prices going up for red chilli, tur dal, wheat and groundnuts. Farmers will get good price for agriculture produce.
 
 
 Stating that law and order will be under control in Sri Vilambi year and peace will prevail, Santosh Kumar said women will play a crucial role and excel in all fields. They would win medals in sports and bring laurels.
 
 
 However, the almanac reader warned that family disputes will increase this year. Even number of divorces will increase. “Those planning to marry should tie the knot only if their understanding is very good. Don’t rush,” he said.   will pick up and those planning to buy property should do within two months. Thereafter, prices would shoot.
 
