BERHAMPUR: Six colleges - three each in Ganjam and Gajapati districts - have been selected to get funds from   aided   for excellence and equity (OHEPEE) for their infrastructure development in the first phase. 

 The principals of the select colleges on Friday signed memorandums of understanding (MoUs) with the state government for implementation of the project. 
 
 Joint secretary, higher education and state project director of the programme   signed the MoUs on behalf of the government with the principals.
 
 The colleges in Ganjam district and amount of funds they will receive are  , Hinjili (Rs 10.52 crore), RCM science college, Khallikote (Rs 8.52 crore) and  , BDPur (Rs 5.26 crore), an official source said.
 
 Similarly the colleges in Gajapati district are SKCG autonomous college, Paralakhemundi (Rs 10.52 crore), Hilltop degree college, Mohana (Rs 3.26 crore) and Indira memorial degree college, Chandiput (Rs 3.26 crore).
 
 "The higher education institutions can spend 20% of the funds each year for the five-year project," said regional director, education, Berhampur, Laxmi Kanta Triapathy, who was present during signing of MoUs.
 
 While the institutions can spend 60% funds for civil works and procuring equipment, rest of the amount can be spent for development of library, laboratory and classrooms, he said.
 
 "The work plans, which we have submitted to the government, were discussed before the signing of the MoUs. Some modifications were made in the plan. The actual work will start only after transfer of the funds to the college," said Shyam Prasad Mishra, principal, TSD College.
 
 The government will be distributing the Rs 1,071-crore World Bank funds among 140 colleges and some universities in the state to improve higher education.
 
 In the first phase, the government has selected 70 colleges to get funds under the project, the source added.
 
 Centre and the state government had signed an MoU with World Bank on November 7 last year to avail a loan of 119 million US dollars for the OHEPEE project. 
 
 The colleges in Mohana and Chandiput in Gajapati district and Khallikote in Ganjam district have already got Rs 2 crore each under Rastriya Ucchatara Sikshay Abhiyan, the source added.
 
