NAGPUR: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Wednesday dismissed a PIL challenging allotment of a bungalow in Civil Lines to Patrakar Club of Nagpur. After court passed strictures against the petitioners — Nagri Hakk Sanrakshan Manch’s president   and social worker   — their counsel   requested for withdrawing the plea, which was allowed.

 The petitioners had demanded to declare the leave and license agreement between PWD and Patrakar Club as “null and void” as it was executed without public auction. But the HC made it clear that the land was given on lease only for five years and after being sanctioned by all the concerned departments, including law and judiciary.
 
 State secretaries of PWD and law and judiciary departments, HC registrar (administration) at Mumbai, collector, PWD chief engineer, besides Patrakar Club were made respondents in the case.
 
 The petitioners had contended that they had obtained information under RTI and found that the government authorities had shown undue haste in handing over the prime property to a private institution.
 
 With a view to end menace of teenage drivers, the HC directed special committee under divisional commissioner to find out a solution. The HC also excluded Maharashtra State Board from the respondents after it clarified that it had no control over the school/college administration and its job was limited to exams. The HC also removed Bhavan’s School from the list of respondents after the latter informed that it was humanely impossible to keep a watch on all students plying vehicles. The school was issued notice last week after one of its students died in an accident in front of Hislop College.
 
 The court was hearing a suo motu PIL (No. 5/2016) where it had taken cognisance of a fatal accident involving a 15 years-old boy who dashed against a middle-aged lady and suffered serious head injuries.
 
 The HC issued contempt notice to minister of state for rural development Dadaji Bhuse, on a plea filed by sarpanch, Rajani Kosurkar, asking him to file reply in four weeks. The petitioner, through lawyer Mangesh Bute, challenged additional divisional commissioner’s decision to disqualify her on alleged irregularities in graveyard renovation work. She appealed to the minister, but he failed to take a decision that prompted her to move the HC. On January 31, the HC had asked Bhuse to decide Kosurkar’s case within three weeks, but when nothing moved, she filed contempt plea.
 
 
