MUMBAI: Migration is a painful experience. Apart from uprooting migrants from familiar habitats, it often lands them in strange, hostile territories. The brave surmount the odds and script inspiring stories while the faint-hearted fall by the side and are buried by the sands of time.

 A group of 65   Shias from East Africa, the US, the UK and Canada are currently touring India to trace the roots of their forefathers who left India in the 19th century. Sailing across the Indian Ocean in dhows, these enterprising members of the mercantile Khoja community had initially landed at   on the East African coast before drifting to different destinations including Dar-e-Salam, London, Toronto. Today, the 1,40,000-odd-member community is spread across the world.
 
 “I am not an OCI (Overseas Citizen of India) but I have strong bonds with India. I will try to trace my grandparents’ house in Nagalpore (Gujarat),” says middle-aged   from London who is accompanying her lawyer husband Mustafa Chandoo.
 
 Before the delegates left on the Heritage Tour to track ancestral roots in Kutch, Kathiawad and Jamnagar in Gujarat, they received a warm reception from the India Federation of Khoja Shias in Mumbai. “When they come to India, it is like they are coming home and reconnecting with their own people. We help make their stay comfortable here,” says the Federation’s secretary Ali Shroff. Adds vicepresident Abbas Bhojani: “The Khojas have a rich history. Time and distance had kept these Khojas away from their roots. We want to facilitate their rediscovery of those roots.”
 
 The delegation’s first stop was Dongri, the epicenter of Khoja Shias in the city. Educationist and the federation’s first executive counsellor from India, Javed Shroff, says it is US-based Hasnain Walji, former president of the   of Khoja Shias, who ignited interest in the community’s heritage. After Shroff helped the World Federation set up office at the pulsating Pala Gali in Dongri in 2011, Walji made ‘The Khojas: A Journey in Faith’, a documentary capturing the story of the Khojas’ search for their roots in India. “History reminds us of who we are and what we are to be. The Khoja Heritage Project team believes concerted efforts are needed to preserve our heritage,” says Walji who heads the Heritage Project, on phone from the US. In 2012 the film was screened in Dar-e-Salam. “It created a lot of interest among the Khojas. They decided to initiate the Heritage Project under Walji’s chairmanship and the Heritage Tour is an offshoot of this project,” says Shroff.
 
 In Mumbai, which is home to 20,000 Khoja Shias, the delegation first visited   in Dongri. A much revered figure in Khoja Shia history, Qadir (1842-1902) is credited with converting Ismaili Shias to Khoja Shia Ishnasheri (also called twelver Shias). Legend has it that Iraqbased Ayatullah Zaynul Abideen Mazandarani had sent his India-born, Karbala-based disciple Mulla Qadir back to India in 1873 on the request of philanthropist Haji Devjibhai Jamal. “The community is what it is today largely because of combination of Khoja heritage and Islamic faith as practised by Ahlul Bayt or Family of the Prophet,” says scholar and deputy chair of the Khoja Heritage Project Kumail Rajani who is accompanying the delegation.
 
 Mohammed Nathoo, 75, whose grandfather migrated to Zanzibar in the late 19th century, says his forefather made such a large fortune that he had handed over a blank cheque to the British during the Second World War. Instead of receiving a knighthood, he got, in return, two public holidays declared for Zanzibar: Imam Hussain’s martyrdom (10th Muharram) and Hazrat Ali’s martyrdom (21st Ramzan).
 
