Madurai: The Madurai bench of the Madras high court has ordered the Madurai Corporation to inspect whether drainage water is being released into the Kannanendal tank and its outlets and directed it to file a report before it. A division bench of justices M Sathyanarayanan and R Hemalatha gave this direction on the petition filed by V Balamurugan from Madurai. 

 According to the petitioner, the tank is under the control of the public works department (PWD), Periyar Vaigai river basin division of Madurai. It receives water from Sirudhur tank and other four channels that passes through Madurai - Natham Road. Almost all channels have been getting destroyed due to developments in the area, due to which the Kannanendal tank has not received adequate water supply. 
 
 This led to residents in the locality demanding the construction of a storm water drain on the road that leads to the tank. For that, a detailed estimate was prepared which is pending before the PWD and the corporation for two years. 
 
 Besides, the district rural development agency implemented underground drainage scheme in the Kannanendal by assuring that sewage treatment plant would be built at the tail end. But, it failed to do it. Due to it, the drainage water is mixed into the water body without getting treated. It causes health hazards to the residents. 
 
 Several representations were given to the PWD and the corporation to build storm water drain and to take action to stop mixing of drainage water into the tank. Lastly, a representation was sent on November 22 last. But, there was no action, the petitioner said. 
 
 Petitioner’s counsel S Aruvalagan told the court that the PWD and the Madurai Corporation are duty bound to protect the Kannanendal tank, but they failed. 
 
 Government counsel said that there was no need for construction of a storm water channel, but there is a proposal for renovating the existing channel. Following it, the court directed the corporation to inspect the water tank and file a report.
 
 
