German artist André Luetzen’s photographs at the exhibition titled   at Mattanchery’s   transpose one to Arkhangelsk in Russia, Kochi in Kerala and Khartoum, Sudan, places completely diverse in every sense. Being invited for a residency in Arkhangelsk in 2014 triggered an interest in Andre to effectively capture the living conditions of people there, following which he backpacked to the other two places. Shifting from a freezing Russia to a rainy Kochi and finally to a blistering Sudan, André could experience two things -- a change in the temperature as also the temperament of people inside living rooms. 

 Andre recalls how the entire experience stayed true to the saying that the journey is more important than the destination. He says, “While I was in Arkhangelsk, which is a small city, I had plans to work on something that is associated with borders, but that got sidelined after a few days. The temperature was as low as minus 20 degree and it made me ponder over how people live under such situations. My interest then shifted to how humans create a living space for themselves inside the houses, no matter what the situation was outside.” This peep into the interiors was intended to literally show the ‘inside out’ to the world, while the external terrrain has also been aptly displayed by Andre through his pictures. 
 
 Then came the invitation for another residency in Kochi by the Goethe-Institut and the Muziris Biennale, he says. However during his sojourn in the city he took part in a few insightful interactions which informed him that monsoon is not the same anymore as it used to be earlier. “Quite opposite to my presumptions that it would rain throughout the day and night and I was not going to see the sun, I was in for a surprise, as it was humid enough. I was then brooding over the term Climate Change, which has been prevailing forever and this time what I encountered was purely manmade.” While Russia has never been this cold as it is now, the nature of monsoon in Kerala has changed drastically, he adds. 
 
 The climatic conditions in Khartoum were antithetical to the earlier situations he went through, and it kept getting hotter and hotter with each passing day bringing it to an all-time high of 50 degrees. “I was deeply interested to know how people survive in such tense situations and to be able to show the privacy of these spaces, I had to move in to the personal sphere.”
 
 He says though he did not know anything about the language spoken in Russia, Kochi and Sudan, his body language came to the rescue most of the time as he tried to converse with the local people in all these places. “You see people lying on their couch, sleeping or contemplating in these photographs. These are moments when they are sensitive and are having one of their most private moments. What you see on their faces is that they are very much by themselves and quite rooted in the current situations.”
 
 It is not just about the climate, but the varying cultures in all the three places, according to him, and the common aspect in them was the warm and friendly people he chanced upon. “It changed my perspective of Russia, India and Sudan and I would always go back to these places.”
 
 These pictures have a sequence and, “they in turn serve to be a narrative, thereby communicating with each other about circumstances of other persons, living conditions and climate. I think this is as important as taking the pictures.”
 
 As the itinerary came to a close, a greater realisation dawned upon him that climate change is not a rapid process as is mostly projected by humans. “It is not this big explosion that is happening worldwide, and it is occurring in small degrees, for instance through an hour less rain or a higher temperature. Most often what is projected is not a true picture. It is unlike this premonition indicating, ‘This is the end’, and I think life as we know it, still continues. People adapt to the situations, as they cannot change the climatic change or move out and go to an altogether different place. They cannot simply change but adapt to the new situations.”
 
 He concludes saying, “What kept me going from one place to another on three different continents such as Asia, Africa and Europe was my feeling that I hadn’t finished with my purpose yet. I still can continue with the journey through a place that has the same complexity as the earlier ones. I have also been working in Hanoi, Vietnam, with the same structure of inside and outside of living spaces. How people create their life out of situations has been an interesting aspect indeed.”
 
  had earlier written a book titled Inside Out Kochi, which delves deep into the mechanism of people and the city during monsoon.
 
  
 
  
 
 
