BHOPAL: The   ( ) has its task cut out ahead of the   as far as clearing of choked drains is concerned. It has an onerous task to clear about 800 drains that threaten to aubmerge the city in case of heavy rains. It may not be an easy task, as the civic body has to make do with just seven storm water drain cleaning heavy machinery and three more would be procured. 

 Last year, despite less than normal monsoon, around 130 drains were clogged. BMC has already launched a drive to clear drains of illegal encroachments. 
 
 In 2016, BMC came under heavy criticism after unprecedented flooding left a trail of devastation with about a dozen killed and over 20,000 people affected. There are an estimated 750 drains in the city of which around 80 are considered to be dangerous ahead of the monsoon season. About 250 water drains mostly located in newly constructed colonies of the state capital have major encroachments.
 
 BMC mayor   has already indicated that the civic body needs more support from the district administration to clear the drains. A major portion of the state capital does not have proper storm water drain management system. Low lying areas have virtually no sewage or storm water drainage system. Moreover, the natural flow of water has been obstructed by illegal constructions. Many of these buildings are expected to be demolished in the coming days.
 
 BMC has set a target to clear drains by June 15. BMC commissioner   along with mayor Alok Sharma has called for a review meeting on Saturday in this regard. Instructions for providing necessary resources have been issued, said BMC additional commissioner MP Singh. The review report from each of the 85 wards has been sought and a major focus would be on low-lying areas.
 
 Last year, a BMC survey had stated that across Bhopal, illegally dumped waste is present, with MSW being discarded on streets, vacant lots, drainage ways and lakeside areas.There are areas where MSW is apparently thrown from households out of doors and windows directly on adjacent streets and pathways with total disregard for public health or environmental consequences. Waste piles are a common feature in many localities, with MSW being strewn across streets and vacant lots, and in drains and waterways, the report said.
 
 There are about 1,100 BMC personnel that have been employed on a regular basis for street sweeping and drain cleaning.
 
 
