 is on cloud nine these days. The 20-year-old recently won the TV reality show, India’s Next Superstars, along with  , 20, from Mumbai. And now Aman is looking forward to his “grand Bollywood debut” in a project that will be made in collaboration with   and  . Talking to JT, an overwhelmed Aman says, “The feeling of finally winning the tournament is yet to sink in. When my name was announced on stage, that I had won, I went completely numb. I could only hear my younger sister Simran’s voice who was shouting, calling out my name: ‘Aman bhaiyya, Aman bhaiyya’. She was sitting in the front row and was jumping with joy and I was trying to be as calm as possible.”

 The contestants underwent a rigorous training and were mentored by Bollywood veterans in different aspects – acting, dance music and more. While Karan Johar and Rohit Shetty were the judges for the show, Bollywood stars including Priyanka Chopra, Kangana Ranaut, Tiger Shroff, Sidharth Malhotra, among others, made appearance on different episodes.
 
  
  Aman with his trophy 
 
 
 
 Aman came to Mumbai in 2016 and since then, before the show came up, he had been taking up odd modelling assignments. He shares with us that getting into the glamour world was not an easy task for him, especially since he was an overweight youngster and had to face a lot of flak for it. The aspiring actor, who shed almost 29kg before venturing on a journey in the entertainment world, says, “When I came to Mumbai in 2016, I used to weigh 105kg. Out of 10 auditions in one week, I would get rejected in at least nine of them. Jahan select hota tha, wahan bhi karne ke liye kuch hota nahi tha. People used to tell me on my face ‘Teri shakal acchi nahi hai, tu wapas chala ja, abhi bhi time hai, tu Jaipur wapas chala ja’. Then I realised that until I work on myself, I won’t be able to make it in the industry. I religiously started working out and taking care of myself and shed 29kg weight in a span of 10 months. And now I am 76kg. It was never an easy task for me.”
  
  Winners Natasha Bharadwaj and   at the finale of  
 
 
 
 Winning the show, Aman feels, is a stepping stone for his future journey. Sharing his plans, Aman says, “I have made a good impression on Rohit (Shetty) sir and Karan (Johar) sir and now I am waiting for their calls. Ultimately, Bollywood is my aim. I have no clue when it’s going to happen but I only know that it will happen for sure, sooner or later.”
 
 
 
 Aman, who studied at Seedling Public School in city and is currently pursuing Bachelor of Mass Media from Mithibai College in Mumbai says that he used to be a mischievous student in school. Recalling his childhood days, Aman shares with us, “I used to be the leader of my group. All of us just loved hanging out with friends and doing mischievous things. Naharhgarh Fort used to be our favourite hangout spot. We used to drive there late at night, without telling parents, and just chill out.” 
 
