NEW DELHI/NOIDA: “Girls will shine, they just need to be given a chance,” said Renu Singh, the proud principal of  . The   Class XII results revealed the excellent performance by not just students of its special programme,  , but several others admitted to different schools under the Right to Education Act.

 Amitasha, an initiative of Amity International Schools, provides education for girls from underprivileged classes.  , topper of Amitasha Noida, scored 93.4% in humanities. “I was determined to do well and my result is the combined effort of the dedication of my teachers and the support of my family,” said a beaming Mishra.
 
 Mishra’s father works in an iron factory while her mother is a housewife. “We sent her to school so that she could learn and excel in life,” said her mother. Coming from a family of limited means, Mishra made sure to devote five to six hours to studies every day. She followed a simple mantra — understand one topic thoroughly before moving on to the next. Mishra aspires to study psychology from Amity University, but is also considering courses in DU.
 
 Bharti Saroj, another student of Amitasha, passed her Class XII with 69.6% in humanities. Her father is a gardener in Amity and her mother, a housewife. “No one in my family thought I would get the marks I got,” said an overwhelmed Saroj. 
 
 Saroj simultaneously undertook a course in beauty make-up techniques for six months and now aspires to be a beautician. She plans to pursue a degree in home science from Amity University.
 
 In Delhi, the   in Rohini boasted of three students admitted under the Right to Education Act who scored above 90%. Akhil Garg, who scored 91.8%, said: “I want to pursue BCom (H) from any college where I can get through on merit. I might even try to get through the BMS course,” said Rohini resident. 
 
 His classmate Nitin Garg was also ecstatic about his excellent score. “I was anxious till the results were declared. I am very happy with my score, though I was hoping for more marks in a few subjects,” said the 90% scorer. Kriti Singh too scored 90.2% with a 100 in economics.
 
 
