THANE: Fifteen years after four shopkeepers from the powerloom town of Bhiwandi who were tried for in power theft case,were given the benefit of doubt and acquitted by the district court here recently. 

 The District Judge PP Jadhav observed that the prosecution has miserably failed to prove the charges under sections 135 and 138 of the Electricity Act, 2003, and they needed to be set free.
 
 The four– Mujafar Husain Juman, 36, Sayeed Ahmed Indris, 40, Meraj Mohammad Badalu Bahilim, 35, and Keshavprasad Shrisomaee Sharma, 50– got the benefit of doubt and were set free.
 
  
 The prosecutor told the court that it was on July 07,2003 a team of officials of the MSEB lead by   attached to the Pune Rural Flying Squad carried out inspection in the   of Bhiwandi.
 
 While inspection, the team allegedly found that in the   owned by one Ijaj Ahmad, at the compound there were two power meters one of single phase and another of three phases and the connections were in the name of one   Sirajul Haq Shaikh.
 
 On inspection of those meters, it was found that the meters were tampered. Also, there were cut-outs connected to incoming wires of the meters. The sanctioned load of the meter was 10 hp. At the time of visit connected load was 26 hp. The display digits in the meter were found tampered along with some other irregularities.
 
 The wheel in the meter recording consumption was tampered with whereby consumption was not being recorded in the meter.
 
 The team members carried out a detail spot and assessed the theft as electricity as 34361 valued at Rs 1.39 lakh and an offence was registered with the Shantinagar police station at Bhiwandi.
 
 Appearing for the accused Advocate   contested the case and stated that the four were not at all involved in the crime and not stolen power at all. They were falsely roped in the case they alleged and hence sought acquittal.
 
 The prosecution has not proved any charge the defence counsel stated. The judge in his order noted, “The prosecution has not examined any other witness to establish the connection of accused to those shops. Admittedly the consumer Shafik Ahmad Sirajul Haq Shaikh in whose name the meter was standing is not made accused in this case.
 
 The person who was running the powerloom factory namely Ijaj Ahmad is also not made accused in this case. Present accused came to be arrested and charge sheeted on the allegations that the shops in which direct supply was provided from the powerloom factory were belonging to them. However, the prosecution has neither produced nor proved any document to show that those shops were belonging to the present accused.
 
 Even if evidence of the two   is accepted as it is, there is nothing on record to establish the connection between the present accused, shops in which supply was given and the theft of electricity and acquitted the accused of all the charges. 
 
