Kolkata: The city has, time and again, displayed its love for dogs but when it comes to complying with the rule, here’s a heartbreak yet again. On a day mayors of Kolkata and Bidhannagar raised the issue of  , the paltry number of licensed pets — 357 — has highlighted the poor compliance to a mandatory requirement. 

 According to Calcutta Canine Club (CCC), around 5,000 thoroughbred pups are registered with it each year. They comprise around 10% of thoroughbreds that are adopted as pets in Kolkata. In addition, several thousand mongrels are also adopted in localities every year.
 
 Pet licences are compulsory under the   Act, 1980. These five-year licences can be obtained against a fee of Rs 2,000. There is a provision of Rs 500 penalty if a dog owner does not have a valid   licence. Worse, if the pet were to bite any person, a lack of a licence could lead to penal prosecutions under IPC.
 
 Bidhannagar mayor Sabyasachi Dutta on Tuesday urged urban development minister Firhad Hakim to draw a comprehensive policy so that dog-owners could be held liable for causing injuries or nuisance to others. “There are provisions for pet licences in Salt Lake and Kolkata. If the owner of a dog that bites a person does not have a licence, the owner should be penalised,” he suggested.
 
 Kolkata Mayor Sovan Chatterjee admitted there were few takers for licences. An ardent dog lover himself, Chatterjee stressed more on awareness than prosecution to deal with the problem. While in Mumbai, Delhi, Pune or Hyderabad the pet licenses are available online; KMC doesn’t offer this facility.
 
 Ambika Jaipal Singh, who has dogs of her own and feeds and treats strays, feels KMC must make people aware of the need to take a pet licence. She also felt a person needed to be responsible before owning a pet. South Kolkata resident Pavini Sukarchakia agreed. “A pet owner should take responsibility if the pet commits nuisance or attacks someone,” she said. 
 
 Anjana Dutt, who has a year-old Labrador, says it is incumbent on the owner to ensure that the pet has undergone necessary vaccination. Chandrima Roy, pet owner and Ashari board member, is fine with licensing but points out that KMC too must fulfil its obligations by setting up civic places catering to pets.
 
 
