CHANDIGARH: Cops have started preparing a list of bouncers hired by discotheques, club, restaurants, offices, and private companies of the city. The campaign follows the arrest of two bouncers with illegal pistols after they shot at someone in Sector 9.

 Tricity’s bouncers remain in news for wrong reasons. People haven’t forgotten the shootout between two groups of bouncers at Phase VII in  , in which 90 rounds were fired, and how  , a supplier of bouncers in the city, was shot dead outside a temple in   district.
 
 The central division cops of Chandigarh have started collecting the details of bouncers that work in their jurisdiction. The division covers the police stations of Sector 3, 11, and 17, besides Sarangpur. The police jurisdictions of Sectors 17 and 3 have more discotheques, bar, pubs, and restaurants than any other part of the city. The owners of these entertainment places must get police verification of their bouncers done before June 20. The beat staff has the authority to collect this data and submit it.
 
 Deputy superintendent of police (central division)   said: “The station house officers (SHOs) and beat cops will visit the discotheques, pubs, bars, clubs, and restaurants in their area to gather all the information on bouncers. The officer in charge of each beat will record the bouncers’ workplaces, work timings, employer details, and for how many months the bouncers are in the job. They will also find out about the guarantors of these tough men and verify whether their arms are licensed or not.
 
 Surjit Singh, who used to provide discotheques and celebrities with bouncers for protection at big events, said: “For every brawl or shootout in and around discotheques, police are always ready to put the blame on bouncers and throw them behind bars. This is the reason why I left this job and started working as a personal guard.”
 
 Police have no idea how many bouncers are working in their area, for whom they work, and how many of them carry firearms. A verification exercise is their only hope to get a fair idea. They will also try to know how many bouncers have been booked in the past, and who all have been convicted in which case and when. The   said the people who had deployed bouncers at homes and offices must also submit their details at the respective police station. Cops will also hold verification camps at the police stations.
 
 
