Nagpur: Ever since its introduction, the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 2015, had become a dreaded word for many. However, the Supreme Court’s ruling on Tuesday introducing anticipatory bail provision in the Act, aimed at protecting the interest and rights of underprivileged section of the society, has been welcomed by many, including those who had faced the heat in the past.

 The harsh provisions in the Act and its aggressive implementation had been questioned by many, citing the huge difference in the number of cases registered under the Act and actual conviction. In 2017 alone, there were 28 offences registered in the city and another 40 in rural areas under the Act.
 
 Whether it is former state director general of police (DGP) Sanjeev Dayal or incumbent city police chief K Venkatesham’s driver Gopal Yadav, none was spared when it came to invoking the Act. Dayal, along with several top bureaucrats, was booked under the Act following a complaint lodged by the then DIG, Central Jail, eastern region, Ankush Shinde, at Dhantoli police station. The top cop was held responsible by Shinde for the alleged discrimination against him in service matters. The FIR was, however, quashed in no time by the high court as it did not find any reason to allow investigation.
 
 Dayal said, “Misuse of law is a matter of concern. Finally, a case is contested on the basis of facts and not just the provisions in the Act.” Though Dayal did not clearly state whether action from subordinates like Shinde creates a roadblock for seniors in carrying on administrative work, he indicated that such misuse of law can pose problems for all, irrespective of an individual’s social standing.
 
 Police driver Yadav was booked, along with his father and others, under the Act when a neighbour approached Gittikhadan police claiming that she was abused on the grounds of her caste. The argument over which the offence was registered involved a dispute over parking of vehicles between two neighbours.
 
 Yadav, welcoming the SC verdict, said the ruling would go a long way in protecting the innocent. “It is an irony that I am facing accusations of being casteist against a scheduled caste person when my wife is from a scheduled tribe community. Pitting a certain law meant for protecting a community against another section, just to settle a score would only lead to imbalance in the society,” he said. “A minor dispute between two neighbours over parking was attributed a casteist colour,” said Yadav, who is still fighting a legal battle to get the FIR quashed.
 
 Youth leader Shailendra Tiwari was booked under the SC/ST Act for forwarding a message pleading for justice in support of a friend who had a tiff with a constable. “An offence was registered against me and others on the basis of a message sent by a friend. The mobile phone belonged to someone else. On top of it, I had never met the complainant,” he said.
 
 Lawyer Trupti Udeshi said that it (the protective provision) was the need of the hour. “The law shouldn't make any discrimination at all. Earlier, there was an automatic arrest provision because of which the Act was misused the most. In Tuesday’s landmark verdict, the court hasn’t said no arrest at all, but there is an added need for approval from sanctioning authority and a preliminary enquiry. This will greatly help in knowing the genuineness of the charges. In a way, this is centred around the spirit of the Constitution,” she said.
 
 THE ACTFILE 2017
 
 Nagpur City 
 
 Cases Registered: 21 (SC), 7 (ST) 
 
 Conviction: 1 (SC), 1 (ST) 
 
 Acquittal: 19 (SC), 3 (ST)
 
 Nagpur Rural
 
 Cases Registered: 24 (SC), 16 (ST) 
 
 Conviction: 6 (SC), 0 (ST)
 
 Acquittal: 29 (SC), 14 (ST) 
 
 We welcome the verdict by Supreme Court, which finally took cognisance of the rampant misuse of the  , which has been basically introduced for “favouring” a particular vote bank. We at Citizen’s Forum for Equality have been demanding repeal of the Act since long and have submitted many representations to the concerned authorities. I remember a perfect case of misuse wherein pro-Vidarbha leader Jambuwantrao Dhote was booked under the Atrocities Act. It was only after our member met then home minister RR Patil and requested him to drop those charges, Dhote got relief. Though the Act may have been beneficial for some communities, it’s a sheer harassment for others.
 
 Madhukar Kukde | President of Citizen’s Forum for Equality
 
 Prior to the SC’s verdict, there was blatant and brazen misuse of the Atrocities Act. The verdict would nip in the bud possibilities of its misuse and prevent further litigations from coming to the judiciary. This will also help in reducing the pendency of cases. In US and UK, the criminal jurisprudence states that the person(s) should be first considered guilty and then asked to prove innocence. In our system, the onus is on the prosecution to prove the accused guilty, which is totally wrong. The SC’s verdict would act as a protection for government employees and save them from being victimized. The ruling would also provide directions on filing complaints under the Act, which was missing earlier.
 
 Shreerang Bhandarkar | Noted lawyer
 
 
