CHANDIGARH: The urban infrastructure sub-committee of the administrator’s advisory council, in its report, said the existing   is 50 years old and unable to handle the needs of city’s current population. 

 According to the committee, old water supply infrastructure results in frequent leakages and Non-Revenue Water (NRW) losses. It said the pumping machinery, which is not energy-efficient, needs to be replaced. Existing pipelines are old and also need to be replaced in a phased manner with latest material like DI (Ductile Iron). The committee went on to underline the importance of GIS mapping of water supply.
 
 The observations come at a time when the civic body authority is working on both segments. The water project is part of the Smart City Project, for which the French government has expressed willingness to offer financial assistance to Chandigarh. However, the main cause for concern for the authority is that in a few places, the old system has gone from bad to worse. Leakages in the water supply pipeline and choked sewerage have become commonplace.
 
 The committee also expressed concern over the condition of the N-Choe (natural choe) passing though the city and suggested complete overhaul with respect to increase in their holding capacity and proper drainage at Choe inlets.
 
 “The sewerage and storm drainage infrastructure of the city, which is around 50 years old, is not capable of handling existing population load. Removal of encroachments in the form of ramps along road water channels is also required. In the water supply segment, infrastructure is quite old, resulting in frequent leakages and Non-Revenue Water (NRW) losses. Pumping machinery is not energy efficient and needs to be replaced. Moreover, storm water drainage systems need to be put in place in pumping stations”, the committee said.
 
 “Automatic operation of pumping machines in accordance with the UGR level (Underground Reservoir Level) is required and old pipelines need to be replaced in a phased manner by latest material like DI (Ductile Iron). There is also the need for GIS mapping of water supply pipes”, the sub-committee added.
 
 The committee pointed out that the availability of tertiary treated water is less and the quality of water available is poor, due to which it stinks. “Tertiary water presently available is not being treated adequately, which leads to foul smell. A study was conducted by the department of science and technology, UT, Chandigarh through Dr Naveen Gupta of the department of microbiology, Panjab University on the sources of bad odour in treated water of STPs of Chandigarh at various outlets and standardising prototype procedures for its effective removal”, the committee found.
 
 
 
 
 Manoj Bansal, chief engineer of the   said, “We are already working for complete renovation and upkeep of water supply. If need be, things will be completely replaced. A survey is being conducted to improve the sewerage system as well and all areas will be covered. If required, here too, the system will be completely replaced to enhance the load or capacity of infrastructure”,
 
 
