GOLD COAST:   gave a gun salute to double trap shooting, an event which has been scrapped from the Olympic programme, by winning the gold medal at the Commonwealth Games.

 
 
 
 Watched by her mom and sister in the stands, Shreyasi, daughter of late Digvijay Singh, former National Rifle Association of India president, was tied with Australian Emma Cox after the four rounds with a total of 96. In the shoot-off to decide the winner, the Indian edged the Aussie 2-1. Linda Pearson of Scotland was a distant third with 87 points.
 
 
 
 “My favourite event is double trap and that’s why I’m really happy that I was able to give it a grand salute from my end,” Shreyasi told TOI here. “I had dedicated my silver to my dad. But this gold is for my mom and my sister Mansi, who were with me all through since my dad passed away in 2010,” the 26-year-old said.
 
 The two sisters used to compete in the junior circuit before Mansi turned her focus to academics. “My sister was a better shot than me and we both participated in the junior team together. She shot professionally for only two years,” Shreyasi said.
 
  
  
 
 On Wednesday, Shreyasi began with a 24 and added a 25 in the next. She then slipped a bit with a 22 but came right back with another 25 to tie with Cox who had a dismal 18 in her fourth round.
 
 “The dream goal was of course the Olympic gold. But I want to set more realistic targets. Next, I’m competing here in single trap. A double gold would be amazing for the country. It is a very important year for shooters as we have the  , Asian Games and World Championships with the Olympic quota place in it. This is just the beginning of the season and I’m glad that I’m off to a great start,” the new Commonwealth champ, perhaps also the last in double trap, said.
 
 Recalling her early days, the Delhi girl, who did her BA from  , said: “I think my grandfather (Kumar Surender Singh, also a former NRAI president) wanted me or my elder sister to become a professional shooter,” she recalled.
 
 “My dad was also happy when I took up shooting. But when I started it was only a hobby and never struck out as a career option. But very soon it became a full on career professional. He had all his dreams for me and discussed it with my mother.” 
 
 The second Indian in the fray Varsha Varman finished fourth with a score of 86.
 
 Meanwhile, in men’s 50m pistol, Om Mitharval took the bronze even as Jitu Rai finished eighth and last in the final. In the men’s double trap,   bagged the bronze and teammate Ashab Mohd came fourth.
 
