JAIPUR : Hooliganism by protesters calling for Bharat Bandh caused heavy inconvenience to commuters and travellers across the state. The seven Rajasthan State Road Transport Corporation (RSRTC) buses were set on fire, 18 of them were damaged while nearly 1,400 across the state were halted during the bandh. Likewise, the   rail route was badly affected via Alwar and   and passengers had a horrifying experience when many trains witnessed stone pelting by the bandh supporters.

 According to the officials of the RSRTC at least 7 buses of the RSRTC belonging to various bus depots and parked near police station in Hindaun City of   district were set on fire by the protesters. “Eighteen of our buses were damaged across the state while at least 1,400 buses on the way to various destinations were halted from 11.30 am to 5 pm on Monday,” said a senior officer of RSRTC on Monday. Most of the buses to Delhi, Ajmer, Jodhpur, Udaipur were halted in Jaipur itself.
 
 A couple living in Jhotwara was traveling to Delhi in a Volvo bus were scared along with other passengers near Shahpura when the bus was stopped. “We were stuck at Shahpura and took a bus in the evening to Delhi,” said Aminesh Agarwal while talking to TOI over phone.
 
 Likewise, passengers travelling to Jaipur from Delhi by Shatabadi Express had the worst experience of their life when the train was halted near Khairthal and later cancelled. “For two hours the train was halted and later we were told that it has been cancelled. It was bad as we could not get any other conveyance to reach Jaipur,” said a passenger travelling in chair car of the train.
 
 When contacted, Tarun Jain, chief public relations officer, NWR, said, “Fourteen of our trains remained partially cancelled while 8 trains were cancelled following bandh. Rail traffic was restored across the state 4.45 pm onwards.”
 
 Partial cancellation of trains badly affected the passengers especially on the   rail route. “Initially the train remained halted for two hours when there was no communication by the onboard train staff and later it was cancelled. We were stuck in Alwar,” said   a daily commuter to Jaipur in Shatabdi train.
 
 At Khairthal railway station the protesters also thrashed the locomotive pilot. However, RPF and local police did not let them enter the train bogies. However, many groups showing some concern for the passengers arranged for milk, breakfast and tea which they offered in various trains free of cost. “It was tough for them thus we collected milk, breakfast, tea and delivered it in various trains including Shatabdi. There were children as well as elderly on teh trains hence we thought it best to help them,” said Rajesh Samtani of Sindhi Navyuvak Mandal.
 
 
