CHENNAI: Maternity leave might be a statutory right to women employees, but   government has refused to consider such leave taken by undergraduate government doctors as part of their service period, while calculating their service for admission to  . Assailing the decision, seven woman doctors have approached the Madras high court.

 When the pleas came up for hearing on Monday, Justice   orally instructed the Director of   (DME) not to precipitate the matter further, and adjourned the hearing to April 3. The court passed the oral instruction, as the directorate was expected to release the merit list for PG medical admission 2018-19 anytime soon.
 
 According to Dr Aruna and six others, they were all undergraduate government doctors and were aspiring to undertake further studies in various PG courses under in-service category. “They have all qualified NEET examination and obtained various ranks. While so, the TN health secretary issued a prospectus dated March 15 based on the recommendations of the selection committee. Shockingly, in the said prospectus, through clause 9 (a) (i) the government has completely excluded the services of female doctors who had taken maternity leave in the previous two years from being eligible to apply for seats. The said action of the government was illegal and unconstitutional,” P Wilson, senior counsel for the petitioners, argued.
 
 Similarly, the government has also excluded those doctors who have taken ‘earned leave’ from the purview of continuous service. Earned leave is a right bestowed on doctors who have worked for a particular number of days in a year. The government while giving the option to the petitioners of taking earned leave, has not put the petitioners on notice that the same will be excluded from the period of continuous service, Wilson submitted.
 
 Had the government given prior notice at the beginning of the year that those doctors who take up the option of ‘earned leave’ would be considered as break in service, and equated to unauthorised absence, then the petitioners would not have availed themselves of the earned leave option. Hence, the authorities were estopped from now putting ‘earned leave’ against the petitioners, Wilson added.
 
 Pointing out that the high court has already recognised the right of female doctors to maternity leave in a connected case arising out of similar facts, Wilson said, “In view of the court’s stand, clause 9 (a) (i) cannot be countenanced in law.”
 
 He further added that availing of maternity leave was a constitutional right of women, falling under the right to health enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution, which is also recognized as a statutory right under the Maternity Benefits Act.
 
 
