Chennai: A two-minute video of your recipe of Indian dishes may get you money. With simple, do-it-yourself (DIY) recipes that have visually appealing content, publishers of these videos make money through monetisation on social media platforms. Popular names such as Hebbar’s Kitchen,   and   are raking in views and monetising content.

 Hebbar’s kitchen, conceptualised and started by Archana and Sudarshan Hebbar, currently is one of the top-viewed Indian recipe channels. 
 
 “Buzzfeed Tasty videos were creating lot of buzz on Facebook and I was inspired by their videos. Also, there weren’t any Indian channels showcasing Indian recipes with shorter videos in Facebook. Hence, I thought I’d give it a try with shorter videos, and the response was amazing. However, now I regularly post on Youtube and other social media channels. We have more than 5.67 million organic followers at the moment and have a reach of 125 million viewers a month for our content,” said Archana Hebbar, co-founder, Hebbar’s kitchen.
 
 Industry sources add that homemakers who upload videos every day, raking in a few thousand views, can make close to Rs 10,000 a month. Those with several million views and subscribers can make up to Rs 12-Rs 15 lakh. Amateur chefs contribute to the viewership of these videos. The easy to make, visually appealing content give perspective to those cooking at home. Anoop Balakrishnan, co-founder, Recipe Book, added that the company is working with small-time chefs to post their content on their blog. “We are also in touch with kitchen appliance brands, which would offer their products at a lower cost for the bloggers. The videos find great viewership on mobile phones and shooting the content can be done with a phone, from the top angle,” he said.
 
 Food videos are one of the most popular items on user-generated online TV channel Roposo. 
 
 “Users can upload videos, watch what is relevant to them and at the same time connect with a wide audience from around the globe. We have channels that have rangoli tutorials, DIY videos for making valentine cards, homemade lanterns but among this food videos definetly are among are most popular platforms,” says Mayank Bhangadia, CEO of Roposo.
 
 “One of our most interesting vloggers is Chef Meghna with 43,088 followers. She’s an investment banker turned baker and hosts her own food show called ‘Meghna’s Food Magic’. She also does posts for us on fitness and travel. There is a magic about home-made cooking. And we find that everyone from housewives to college going girls to celebrities like Shenaz Treasurywalla post on food, give tips, share recipes,” says Bhangadia.
 
 Analytics from video analytics platform Vidooly shows that Indian food video channels gain approximately 380,000,000 million views every month with more than 32,700,000 cumulative followers on their pages. “Over 50% of the traffic comes from the age group 25-34 and the subscribers go up to the age of 45-50. All these food folks are raking in majority viewership, because its quick, over the top shot content, no voice overs, to the point recipes. This resonates well and the average watch time is less than 2 minutes for a recipe,”said Nishant Radia, co-founder, Vidooly. 
 
 He adds that 50% of viewership comes from men for 80% of the food channels and most of them are glued to regular recipes, while women want to try new and creative ones.
 
 
