My   belongs to Pune,” begins actress  , the moment you bring up the city’s name; and that’s just the beginning of our long chat about the city. 

 Having spent her childhood and college life in Pune, Pooja shares a strong bond with the city and has ample memories of it. It takes just a slight nudge from our side for her to recall the time she has spent here. She says, “I am in Mumbai most of the time due to work commitments, but I never miss a chance to come to Pune. I don’t need to go abroad to relax or chill. Coming here is like a vacation in itself.”
 
  
  
 
 Pooja admits that she is just waiting for a reason to come to the city. “Mumbai gets on your nerves after a while, but the moment I enter Pune, I have a smile on my face. You can call me a true- blue Puneite,” she says. The former   completed her graduation from Ness Wadia College of Commerce and confesses that she was a brat throughout. “I hardly attended classes and would chill in the parking lot with friends. We used to regularly go to   restaurant or   to grab a bite. Even today, whenever I come down to the city, I never leave without having coffee at Vaishali. There are so many memories attached to this city that I could write a book about it,” she shares. The actress says that though she was naughty, she used to score very well in academics and was a good sportsperson too. “I still am somewhat a brat but when at work, I am a different person altogether. My mantra has always been that whatever you do, do it with conviction,” says Pooja, who will soon be seen in the upcoming  .
 
  
  
 
 Speaking about her role in the film, Pooja shares, “I play Captain Maya, an army woman who leads a team of four men. The role is inspired by a real life character who, incidentally, was a man. Neeraj (director Neeraj Pandey) guided me throughout the shoot.” Pooja underwent rigorous training to look the part. “I wanted the ripped look to show on screen. I have a slender figure but after training for this role, my body fat percentage decreased too,” she informs.
 
 WATCH: 
  
 
 
 
 Ask her what she wants from the New Year and pat comes the reply, “I want everything! I am a greedy girl and I want all the best thigs in my life. So I am working towards that and hopefully, 2018 will be a great year.”
 
 The Pune girl has one complaint about the city though. She shares, “Pune doesn’t give me enough reasons to visit. I want to be here more often.”
 
