KOLKATA: The first pedestrian boom barrier in the city was installed at   on Friday. However, a glitch in the pedestrian signalling system with which the machine has to be synchronised for successful automatic operation left the machine unfit for operation.

 “We have installed the machine. The five-metre bar that would plug the gap between the pedestrian guard rails has also arrived but we cannot install it as the pedestrian signal system is experiencing a glitch. It was without power last Wednesday and on Friday the signal remained red for pedestrian movement. We have informed Lalbazar,” said an official of Kavya Technologies, the agency entrusted with the task of setting up the barriers.
 
 Officers of Lalbazar acknowledged the glitch and said they are working upon the one at Exide Crossing as well as other key crossings in the city where the pedestrian traffic signalling system is at fault.
 
 “We have been repairing the faulty pedestrian signal posts across the city. The work will be completed by this weekend and we hope that the boom barriers already installed by then will be operational by next Monday,” said a senior officer at Lalbazar.
 
 As per the plan,   will install a thousand pedestrian barriers — on the lines of the ones used to stop cars at toll plazas or mall parking kiosks — at 250 crossings all over the city to discipline jaywalkers and arrest the sudden spike in road accidents. The system will operate like railway level crossings and toll plazas where the rectangular beam would open (vertical position) allowing pedestrians to pass through it when the pedestrian signal would turn green and would drop down (horizontal position) when the signal is turned red.
 
 TOI on Wednesday had reported that while cops blame pedestrians for accidents, several crossings in the city also present a plethora of problems for them. While the pedestrian signals are faulty at a number of places, the zebra crossing often leads pedestrians to a dead end where either the pavement is blocked by hawkers, auto drivers or parked vehicles.
 
 On Friday, engineers of Kavya Technologies started ground work for installation of the barriers at S N Banerjee Road and   crossing — the third such place after Exide Crossing and J L Nehru Road-Park Street crossing.
 
 “DL Khan Road-AJC Bose Road crossing was earlier selected as the third crossing but a number of wires that hang atop the crossing are causing problems for the vertical movement of the bars. Hence, we have selected S N Banerjee Road crossing for the time being,” said an officer of Kolkata Police’s traffic department.
 
 
