KOLKATA: The   isn’t taking any chances with the   for the   after the high court directed the commission to treat the May 14 poll date as “only tentative”. It has got a plan ready broadly on the lines of the   the   had ordered five years ago during the   Accordingly, the state poll panel has proposed two armed personnel for each polling booth when the state plans such deployment for polling premises.

 
 The commission had been negotiating with the state based on this security plan that requires a total 2.9 lakh (armed and unarmed) personnel for holding a single-phase poll which is far above the state’s security proposal. SEC officials will submit the state’s plan to the high court on Friday.
 
 The commission will, however, keep the original plan ready and place it before the division bench, in case the state’s security plan fails to satisfy the bench.
 
 State election commissioner Amarendra Singh is known to have worked out this defence after he burnt his fingers a few days ago by taking back the notification the commission had issued on April 9 giving a four-hour window to candidates unable to file nominations following the Supreme Court directive.
 
 As part of preparation for polls that has also come under the high court scanner, the commission has directed the district magistrates and superintendents of police to submit a detailed report by May 7 classifying polling booths under four categories — super sensitive, sensitive, low sensitive and normal. The reminder comes after none of the district officials sent the booth report despite the commission’s directive to send the reports within a week from the meeting the commissioner held with them on March 23.
 
 The commissioner has also written to the director general of police, commissioners of police and superintendents of police to act upon the 4,500 poll-related complaints of which more than 100 are against police. The purpose, as SEC officials put it, is to hold the state government accountable for its omissions in the court of law instead of the commission’s drawing the flak from the court alone.
 
 But unlike his predecessor Mira Pande, Singh didn’t pick up a fight with the state when the government representative told the commission that elections can be held with the 46,000-odd armed forces and 1,1 lakh home guards and civic volunteers in place. The present commissioner instead leaves it to the high court to determine the security arrangement. The commission therefore followed the 2013 panchayat poll security pattern to prepare its plan. “Once the court decides the security arrangement, the commission can ask for more forces and may also approach the governor to make the forces available for conduct of the polls,” an SEC official said.
 
