MUMBAI:   work   has come under the scanner of the  . A division bench of Justice Abhay Oka and Justice Riyaz Chagla on Wednesday directed the   to check noise levels at three sites, Cuffe Parade, Churchgate and Mahim. The bench asked the police officer in charge of the respective police stations to file an affidavit about the action they propose to take if violation of noise rules is found.

 “The state will have to take action if the   levels are above those prescribed for the area,” said the bench. “There cannot be relaxation [of the limits for noise levels] unless the law is changed. The Mumbai police will have to check if there are any complaints from residents.”
 
  
 The court was hearing public interest litigations filed to implement noise rules, including one filed by the NGO Awaaz Foundation.
 
 Advocate Shanay Shah, counsel for Awaaz, submitted before the court the noise readings recorded by Sumaira Abdulali of the foundation in December and January. At Cuffe Parade, it was over 95 decibels, at Churchgate it was between 99 decibels and 110 decibels, and at Mahim near Paradise cinema, 106 decibels. 
 
 “At Mahim, the drilling was within six feet of residential buildings, at Cuffe Parade although a noise barrier was seen over a short stretch, the drilling continued beyond the barrier within about 15 feet of residential buildings. At Churchgate, residential buildings were within 10 feet of the drilling work,” the report said. The lawyer informed the court that the police had been informed about the findings. 
 
 The court asked the police officers to make at least two visits to the sites to record noise levels and submit a report before April 25, the next date of hearing.
 
 In a related development, the court also asked the state to issue a circular to direct police officers not to divulge details of persons who complain about noise violations. 
 
 “There has to be some embargo or prohibition placed so that police officers called to investigate noise violations complaints do not disclose the identity and contact details of the complainant to anyone,” observed Justice Oka. 
 
 The lawyer for the state assured the court that such a circular would be issued within a month. 
 
 The issue of private helipads also came up for discussion and the court told the state that its helipad policy does not mention noise levels. The court also sought to know the progress in the integration of noise mapping of the city with its proposed Development Plan.
 
 
