HYDERABAD: Stating that future generations would not think well of us if we fail to solve the murder of pharmacy student   Meera, the Hyderabad   on Friday told the   (SIT) to quiz the other inmates of the hostel who were present on the fateful night of December 27, 2007. 

 The bench of Acting Chief Justice   and Justice K Vijaya Lakshmi, which is monitoring the SIT probe, said this after going through the first report submitted by SIT after it was entrusted the task four months ago.
 
 "We were told that you are an upright officer. Do an honest job. If you have any difficulty in the matter, you have our support. Very little has been done so far. When a girl was found dead in a horrible condition with head injuries in a hostel, when someone hit her on the head at a place where 100 girls were staying, will she not cry and make a sound? Will it not be audible to other girls? Trace the other girls and enquire what happened. It does not even require great technical expertise to arrive at the truth in this case," Justice Ramesh told Ch Srikanth, DIG of Visakhapatnam range and the SIT chief. 
 
 The DIG also sought permission from the court to remove Saharunnisa Begum, a member of the current SIT, and replace her with Abdul Kareem, an inspector working with the Guntur CCS. Saharunnisa was the investigation officer in the earlier team that derailed the probe. The bench accorded permission for the change.
 
 On the question of lack of progress in the case in the last four months, the state counsel told the bench that there is delay in getting evidence from the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL). The bench then said it would make FSL a party to the case and seek a reply from it for the delay.
 
 The bench also expressed dissatisfaction over the delay by the state government in taking penal action against the errant investigators who derailed the probe in the past with shoddy investigation. It did not agree with the contention of the state that they are still in the process of identifying the erstwhile investigators. Their names are there in the order of the court itself, the bench said. 
 
 D Suresh Kumar, the counsel for Ayesha's parents, told the bench that an earlier high court bench had directed the state to punish the errant police officers in the case. The bench directed the state to act against the guilty and posted the case to July 13 for further hearing.
 
