MELBOURNE:  , the inform second seed in the   women’s draw, flexed a mental muscle ahead of her first round match against Romania’s  .

 
 “I’ve had a great last year, its something I'm very proud of,” the 27-year-old, a top-2 seed in a Grand Slam for the first time in six years, who reached the final of her season opener in Auckland, said. “Just happy to be here, and playing pretty well. Hopefully I can build on that.”
 
 Wozniacki could climb to the top of the rankings, where she has already spent 67 weeks, if she reaches the semifinals of the Australian Open. She first vaulted to the top of the rankings in January 2012 and should she return there by the end of this tournament, it would be the longest gap between stints at No.1 since computer rankings were introduced in November 1975. “It is something that would always be special and really awesome. At the same time I’m doing what I can do. I’m just playing here right now. That's what I'm focusing on. Everything else will kind of fall into place,” Wozniacki, who clinched the season-finale in Singapore in October, said. “If I do it again that would be amazing. If I don't it's still great. I’ve been there before, so it's not like it's something I haven't done. It's a little different, I suppose, this time around.”
 
 
 
 
 World No.1  , who recently ended her contract with Adidas, is currently wearing ‘no brand clothes’.
 
 At the Australian Open she’ll sport a newly tailored pattern she hand-picked for herself. Halep, who said her team were talking to potential sponsors, added that the conversations had only just begun. “I want to make sure that I will choose what I like, also the brand to like me,” she said, “It's really important to have a nice outfit and to feel good in the clothes. So I'm not rushing. I will wait and see what future gives me.”
 
 “It's an interesting period, to be honest,” she added smiling, appreciating that she doesn’t have to open a packet and wear whatever she gets. The Romanian sported a little red dress with black detailing en route to the title in Shenzhen last week and she’ll wear the same design at Melbourne Park.
 
 Halep said she looked online for help and reached out to a seamstress. “I sent a picture. It was a site in China. One of my managers helped me. In 24 hours I had the outfit and it was perfect. I was lucky,” Halep, the top-seed in the women’s draw, said.
 
 
