AHMEDABAD: A day after the   nabbed  , a prime accused in the sensational  , it has made significant progress in tracking the shooters of an  . Crime branch officials said some of the robbers are from south Gujarat and some from Mumbai. Crime branch officials said they are taking help of Maharashtra police and will be able to nab the killers very soon.

 While Vadaj police is investigating the case, city crime branch officials have tracked the exit route of the robbers with the help of CCTV footage.
 
 “The robbers had taken the route to South Gujarat. We scanned footage from each and every toll plaza that came in the way and ascertained that the robbers had indeed travelled right up to the border of Gujarat and Maharashtra,” said a senior crime branch official.
 
 Crime branch officials said from the modus operandi they had already figured out that the robbers who executed the crime were from outside Gujarat but they were tipped off by an insider. “We have already identified the tipper,” said a crime branch official.
 
 Four robbers on two bikes had struck at about 7am near GSRTC bus stand outside Gujarat Vidyapith and targeted a group of angadia employees on their way to Deesa loaded with cash and valuables.
 
 “Arvind Patel, 51, a native of Siddhpur, was gunned down when he refused to let go of his bag. One of the robbers shot him in his face and belly — killing him on the spot. The bag robbed from Patel contained pearls, diamonds and gold sets. The robbery is suspected to be of about Rs 35 lakh,” said a crime branch official. Crime branch officials said they are also in hot pursuit of the of the contract killers who had gunned down transporter Suresh Shah.
 
 Ballistics report shows country-made pistol was used
 Crime branch officials said with the help of ballistic experts they have ascertained that country-made 7.56 mm (point 32 bore) pistols were used by the robbers. “These pistols are easily available in Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. We have also rounded up a few gunrunners,” said a crime branch official. 
 
