





Virginia House, on Kolkata’s Chowringhee, is always a pretty picture in the evening, as the setting sun washes its white facade. The five-floor heritage building faces the inviting greens of the Kolkata Maidan. Just behind the 90-year-old headquarters of ITC Ltd, stands another building — the 12-storeyed ITC Centre. It sports a more contemporary, with a glass facade. The contrast is remarkable. Virginia House faces west, while the ITC Centre faces east. The addresses of the buildings vary as they are on parallel roads. They are different and yet are linked. Top ITC bosses sits in the older building, while the newer structure houses crucial corporate functions such as human resources, legal and communication. The symbolism of the two contrasting buildings, standing back to back, cannot be lost on ITC, India’s fourth largest company by market capitalisation. After all, ITC itself is also a study in contrasts — trying to emerge as a modern diversified fast moving consumer goods (FMCG) player, while trying to shed its cigarette and tobacco legacy. ITC tries to tap the synergies between its older and newer businesses. But these days, its top brass rarely talks about cigarettes, its bottom line mainstay. Most of ITC’s communication and investments are around FMCG — its growth engine. But the market still values the company on the basis of the cigarette business.  In 2016-17, cigarettes had accounted for 58 per cent of its revenue, and 85 per cent of its net profit. The stock tanks on the bourses if taxes on cigarettes go up. It has remained subdued for almost a year because of fear of impact due to the goods and services tax (GST). 
  
  
  
  
  
	
	
   

















 Over the past two decades, ITC has tried hard to shed its cigarette-maker tag. The question is, has ITC done enough to set itself on course to emerge as a company that does not depend on cigarettes, and will it complete the journey anytime soon? Sanjiv Puri, ITC’s CEO and executive director, sits on the second floor of the older, more majestic, Virginia House, where the iconic staircase has been a favourite photo-shoot destination of ITC CEOs. Puri took over the executive leadership from Chairman YC Deveshwar last year. His office shelves are loaded with FMCG products, snacks, soaps, shampoos and the likes. There are no cigarettes in sight. There is a smoking room somewhere in the building, though. 

    
In an interview with ET Magazine, Puri explains how the FMCG growth engine would
 continue to expand and that finding synergy between the older businesses (not just tobacco, but also hotels, paper and information technology) was key to ITC’s success. “We have more to gain from the synergy of our diversity. It is our competitive advantage, and we leverage it to the hilt.” Puri admits that while the journey to diversify the company started a long time ago, it only got traction in the past 10 years. The first decade was focused on preparing the company for the transition, he adds. ITC now has the ability to innovate products, create brands and allow “pro-neurs” or professional entrepreneurs to build businesses in FMCG. The company wants to achieve FMCG turnover of Rs 1 lakh crore by 2030. In 2016-17, ITC’s FMCG arm had clocked a turnover of Rs 10,000 crore, and in the nine months ended December 31, 2017, it crossed Rs 8,000 crore. To compare, FMCG major Hindustan Unilever reported a revenue of Rs 34,487 crore in 2016-17. ITC already has 25 “mother brands” (Sunfeast, Ashirvaad, etc) in its FMCG portfolio targeted at market segments, and expansion plans will involve filling in the sub-segments covered by these brands with sub-brands and product variations.  For example, ITC was the number two player in shower gel but was not present in body wash, something it is entering now. The Ashirvaad brand, for instance, has now been extended to spices. It is a Rs 4,200 crore brand and is expected to grow fast with other products, apart from atta, under its banner. At the same time, ITC continues to launch new brands. Dermafique, for example, is its first premium skin care offering, being launched in April. As a first in the Indian market, the brand marks its product range of cleansers, toners and moisturisers. All cleansers have 01 written prominently on them. Similarly, toners have 02 and moisturisers have 03 printed prominently on the packs. Puri explains that it is to help the customer complete a face and skin care regimen, where a cleanser is to be used first, followed by the corresponding toner and moisturiser. Customers are free to mix and match from the range of products that belong to the three categories. Just before his meeting with ET Magazine, Puri had completed a review of the FMCG business. 
  
  
  
  
  
	
	
   

















 He was excited about another new entrant — extruded snacks that can come in interesting shapes. “Most FMCG players would have snacks shaped like, say, a ring. We are providing other shapes … a little more fun,” Puri says. The growth is being fuelled by a meticulously created talent pool. “We have created a robust and high quality talent pool that has the experience to create categories from scratch. It is an unusual opportunity to create the numerous categories that we are into today. This does not come easily,” he says. The talent pool, a critical component of the company, is backed by a life sciences and technology centre in Bengaluru, which has 350 scientists and has already registered 700 patents. ITC has also been growing the FMCG portfolio through acquisitions. In 2014, it acquired B Natural from south Indian juicemaker Balan Natural. In 2015, it acquired Shower to Shower and Savlon brands from Johnson & Johnson and in 2017, Charmis from Colgate-Palmolive. Nascent segments where ITC is likely to scale up fast are juices, dairy, spices and salt. “Our salt is unique. It is sun-dried, natural sea salt,” Puri says. Then there are the premium offerings. ITC has also entered the coffee and chocolates markets at the top-end luxury segments — via boutiques at ITC’s hotels and a few select malls. This is not the first time that ITC has diversified in a big way. It was a diversified conglomerate in the mid-nineties, too. 
  
  
  
  
  
	
	
   

















 Apart from hotels, paper boards and IT services businesses, it also owned edible oil brand Sundrop and a personal finance company called ITC Classic Finance. It was also the time (1994-1996) when the company was ravaged by allegations of foreign exchange violations and an excise demand of Rs 800 crore. The period also saw a tussle between British American Tobacco (BAT), the erstwhile promoter of the company, and the management. BAT had promoted ITC as Imperial Tobacco Company in 1910. However, over the years, it allowed its shareholding to drop to the mid-thirties. In the eighties, it did not even subscribe to a rights issues for shares. In the mid-nineties, BAT evinced interest in taking its stake back to 51 per cent and take control of the company. This started a struggle between financial institutions that held around 38 per cent at the time and BAT, with the management — under then chairman KL Chugh — seeking to stay independent and to diversify into power generation, almost in an effort to derail BAT’s move. After a stormy general meeting of shareholders, where Chugh retained his role but the power diversification plan was overruled, negotiations started between all the stakeholders. It led to the exit of Chugh and vice-president Deveshwar being elevated. Deveshwar took over as chairman on January 1, 1996. But ITC was on the wrong side of both the government and BAT. Both held 33 per cent per cent each in the company. 
  
  
  
  
  
	
	
   
















 SSH Rehman, the then head of ITC’s hotels and foods businesses, was a witness to the changes of that era. Rehman, now a non-executive director on ITC board, says: “Yogi’s sincerity was recognised by the powers that be, and with an understanding board, he helped rescue the company from what could have been sure annihilation.” ITC decided to get out of finance, a business that BAT was also into. ICICI picked up ITC Classic Finance in 1997. The exit was a clear signal that the ITC management did not want to align with BAT. Another decision taken around this time was to develop indigenous brands and build value chains within India, to stress on the Indianness of the company and be on the right side of the government. Sundrop, owned by ITC Agrotech, was sold to Conagra Foods, as much of the oil was imported and did not conform to the idea of keeping the value chain in India. This tenet is followed even today. Puri says the entire value chain of its FMCG products resides in India, and all the FMCG brands are home grown, unlike its cigarette brands. Home-grown brands eliminate need to pay royalties to others. ITC also decided to merge some of its subsidiaries into itself. So hotels, paper, packaging and paper boards, tobacco and agri businesses became part of the main company. Puri explains that it is far easier to synergise resources when the businesses are within the same company. 
  
  
  
  
  
	
	
   

















 Leveraging the popularity of the cuisine at ITC’s Hotels business, Rehman says, many product collaborations were introduced — also in alliance with the agri and packaging businesses. One of the earliest products in this line, something that Deveshwar liked to talk about, was canned Bukhara Dal, which was part of the menu at its restaurant Bukhara in ITC Maurya in Delhi. Puri explains that in the nineties, diversification decisions were often dependent on what licence was available for what product. This time around, it is being driven by synergy. Despite selling Sundrop to Conagra, the company was saddled with an edible oil processing plant at Mantralayam, about 270 km from Hyderabad. Maintaining the mothballed plant was costing ITC Rs 6 crore a year. ITC divorced that plant at a wedding. Sudip Bandyopadhyay, who used to head treasury and investments then, recalls how he met up with Gautam Adani and struck a deal to sell the plant to Adani Wilmar. The meeting happened at the newly opened ITC Sonar Bangla, where Adani was attending a wedding ceremony. 
  
  
  
  
  
	
	
   

















 Bandyopadhyay is now the chairman of Inditrade Capital, a diversified financial services company, and he often wears the equity analyst’s hat. He says he is often worried that ITC’s FMCG business at times seems to be competing against its own cigarette revenues, in an effort to prove that it is not a cigarette company any more.  The constant diversification has been a drag on the company and even after two decades, he says, it is yet to show much in terms of lowering its dependence on cigarettes. “Investments in hotels, and ITC owns each of its hotels, are also solid real estate investments. FMCG, on the other hand, has been a drag. A turnaround of the FMCG business will definitely be a big event for ITC.” Apart from cigarettes, he says, ITC has a strong tobacco business, which is classified under agri-business. If the profit from the tobacco business is added to that of cigarettes, these add up to more than 90 per cent of ITC’s profit today. While he does not see that changing anytime soon, Bandyopadhyay says a re-rating of ITC stock is on the cards. “The stock was depressed because of fears around GST, and while those fears have blown away, the stock has not recovered yet.” There could be more reasons to cheer for ITC shareholders. A January report by Edelweiss Securities pointed out that the ITC stock had underperformed when compared with peers in all segments, be it cigarettes, FMCG, hotels or paper. Therefore, it was in line for better performance.  
  
  
  
  
  
	
	
   

















 It also said that as the FMCG business was now likely to stabilise with positive earnings before interest and tax (EBIT), this was likely to reflect on the stock. An Edelweiss spokesperson explained: “The FMCG EBIT has so far been negative or flat. In the December quarter, there was a 1.5 per cent margin, and this should improve from now on. If that happens, instead of valuing the company on a price-to-sales basis, brokerages like ours and others can move on to value the company on the basis of price earnings (PE) or economic value to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EV/EBITDA) basis. While it will take some time, it is not a decade away either."  Edelweiss has pegged the fair value for the ITC scrip at Rs 313 and said while 73 per cent of the valuation would still be from cigarettes, FMCG would account for 15 per cent. Puri says the FMCG business finally turning profitable at the operating level means a big milestone has been achieved. But there is still some way to go. As some of the older FMCG businesses mature, these will be able to contribute at the operational level. But for major capital investments, the company will have to fall back on other resources (profits from cigarettes). 
  
  
  
  
  
	
	
   

















 A look at segment-wise revenues and profits in the October-December 2017 quarter shows why FMCG profits are important. The FMCG segment revenue at Rs 2,871 crore was 62 per cent of cigarette segment revenue, at Rs 4,629 crore. FMCG profit, at Rs 47 crore, was way smaller than cigarette profit of Rs 3,269 crore. The agri and paperboards businesses, though much smaller than FMCG, turned in a profit in excess of Rs 200 crore each. Clearly, FMCG is not contributing enough yet. "Each segment has to become globally competitive, and we will do whatever is required for that. Each segment has to become a growth engine for the company as well as the country," says Puri. ITC does not intend to take its feet of the pedal on cigarettes, Puri says. He acknowledges that cigarettes as a sector is facing growth issues and is heavily taxed in India. Smuggled cigarettes have eaten into the market as the mandatory pictorial warning covering 85 per cent of the pack in India puts off many. "Many people prefer to buy a pack of cigarettes without the large pictorial warnings and this is allowing smuggled cigarettes a bigger market," he says. At ITC, the rhetoric often hovers around doing things for the country and stressing on the Indianness of the company. Last April, a public interest litigation was filed by a group of eminent citizens in Mumbai, led by a doctor and the widow of a cancer victim, asking why an insurance company like Life Insurance Corporation should hold a stake in a cigarette maker. A lower LIC holding can change the status quo for ITC. Almost taking a cue, at the July annual general meeting of ITC, shareholders passed a resolution to allow the conglomerate to start a hospital or a chain of hospitals. Puri says the company has not yet decided how to go about starting this new line of business. But the intent of entering healthcare makes it clear that ITC can go the distance to achieve its desired avatar.