CHENNAI: Facing hindrance from the Chennai corporation over renovating the building housing   in  , the club has approached the   to restrain the corporation from interfering in the renovation work.

 Since the building is owned by the corporation, it had opposed the renovation on the apprehension that the club, which has rented the property on lease, was trying to alter the building’s structure in the guise of repair work.
 
 Allowing the plea, a division bench of   and   said, “The petitioner is permitted to replace the damaged asbestos sheet with metal sheet. It is made clear that the petitioner under the guise of replacing the asbestos sheet with a metal sheet, shall not alter the physical features of the superstructure in question and shall not put up any additional construction.”
 
 According to the club, it is a registered society and the premises in question was leased out in their favour by the Corporation of Chennai Employees Co-operative Society.
 
 It further claimed that the premises in question is an old building having ACC roof and it got damaged due to fall of a tree and steps are being taken to replace the same with metal sheet. 
 
 At this juncture, the corporation have issued a dated November 29, 2017 opposing the repair work.
 
 The club submitted that provisions of Section 49 of Town and Country Planning Act, 1971 have no application to the case in hand, for the reason that the premises in question belongs to Corporation of Chennai Employees Co-operative Society and they have taken up the said premises, which is an old structure, on lease. 
 
 Due to the falling of the tree, the asbestos sheet got damaged and therefore replacing it with a metal sheet and in the light of Section 255 of the Chennai City Municipal Corporation Act, 1919, they are entitled to alter the same and prays for interference.
 
 Per contra, the corporation submitted that since building permit is necessary for such works and since the petitioner did not obtain the same, the action was initiated.
 
 
