Kolkata: Team India pacer Mohammad Shami’s wife, Hasin Jahan, has accused him of infidelity and physical   over several months.

 On Wednesday, a day after she posted a series of screenshots that she claimed were conversations between   and other women, she went to Lalbazar with her lawyer to meet senior cops but didn’t lodge a complaint. In the evening, Shami’s woes spilled over with the BCCI withholding his revised annual contract. 
 
 Jahan, 26, a former Kolkata-based model and cheerleader for an IPL team, had met Shami in 2011. They got married a year later. The couple has a four-year-old daughter.
 
 Since Tuesday morning, she started posting a series of photographs of Shami with different women, alleging they were his girlfriends. She later posted seven screenshots of a text conversation claiming they were between Shami and a woman, dating back to October 2016, naming the album “Shami’s enjoyment”. She replied to comments and accused Shami of having affairs with several women, saying she found out only recently. Some of her posts were later removed.
 
 Shami tweeted a response on Wednesday, denying all allegations. “Ye jitna bhi news hamara personal life ke bare me chal raha hai, ye sab sarasar jhut hai, ye koi bahut bada humare khilaf sajish hai aur ye mujhe badnam karne aur mera game kharab karne ka kosis ki ja rahi hai (The news about my personal life, which has been doing the rounds, is totally false. This is a big conspiracy to blemish me and an attempt to spoil my performance).” TOI repeatedly tried to reach him over phone for comment, but there was no response throughout the day.Speaking to TOI outside her apartment at Katjunagar in Jadavpur, Jahan said she had recently found a smartphone hidden in Shami’s car. She managed to open the pattern lock after several attempts and found some “objectionable” chats, photographs and videos, she said.
 
 “This has been going on for several months. I found out that on his way back from South Africa last month, he had stayed at a hotel in Dubai while the rest of his teammates returned to India. A chat revealed that he was scheduled to meet a girl from Pakistan at the airport. He checked into a hotel on February 18 with the woman. He came back to India the next day,” Jahan said.
 
 She waved a bundle of printouts of chats and photographs that she claimed to have recovered from Shami’s phone and said she intended to take legal action against him. She even alleged that Shami tortured her physically and mentally and had threatened to leave her and marry someone else. “But I will not let him get away easily. I will not sign on the divorce papers and will expose him and drag him to court for what he has done to me,” she said, before leaving for Lalbazar.
 
 Jahan alleged that Shami had relations with many women in cities like Nagpur, Indore, Bengaluru and Pune. “He regularly calls these women to his hotel rooms whenever he is visiting these cities. He also has relations with women in Pakistan and Dubai. I confronted him but he threatened me and dared me to do whatever I wanted, saying he was not afraid of anyone. He even said he had married someone else and would soon leave me and the baby,” Jahan alleged.
 
 “She came to Lalbazar and met us. She has talked in detail about the trouble between her and her husband but did not lodge any official complaint,” Kolkata Police joint commissioner (crime) Praveen Tripathi said.
 
 Shami played a crucial role on India’s recent tour of South Africa, picking up five wickets in the second innings of the final Test at Johannesburg to lead his side to a famous win. He was also part of the One-Day squad but did not get a game. While Jahan kept posting screenshots throughout Tuesday on Facebook, Shami was playing a Deodhar Trophy match at Dharamshala, representing India A against Karnataka. He ended up conceding 96 runs in his 10 overs and India A eventually lost the match. He was scheduled to return to Kolkata on Wednesday.
 
 
