JAIPUR: The possibility of Jaipur featuring in top ten cities in the Swachh Survekshan 2018 looks bleak.

 The state capital is at 33rd spot currently out of 51 cities having over 10 lakh population each.
 
 
  in   heads the list with 231.80 points, while Jaipur has 57.77 points.
 
 Sources in the   ( ) said that a few factors like poor door-to-door garbage collection and failure to make the city open-defecation free would affect the city’s ranking.
 
 Moreover, Jaipur is also lagging behind on user happiness index as well as user engagement and agency responsiveness.
 
 On the ‘citizen happiness’ index, out of 5,421users, majority of people have remarked ‘dissatisfied’. As per the ministry of housing and urban affairs official website - swachh-.city, so far 2,919 residents expressed dissatisfaction, while 2,308 said they were satisfied with the JMC’s services. A total of 194 people gave ‘neutral’ response.
 
 The civic body had made several tall promises, but they have mostly fallen flat. A team from the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs, appointed by Centre's  , had conducted a three-day survey of Jaipur. The team visited various places in the city to gather information about door-to-door collection of waste, whether global positioning system (GPS) is used to monitor vehicles carrying waste, and other such measures and practices adopted by the civic body.
 
 The team has completed all the documentation work and collected feedback for this year's survey, the results of which are expected in April-May.
 
 Jaipur is now hoping that its rank should improve a bit as among the states, maximum number of 5.9 lakh people have given their feedback in Rajasthan, followed by Madhya Pradesh and  , the data available in public domain revealed.
 
 Citizens’ feedback is one of the key parameters in the ranking of cities. It enjoys 35% weightage on the scale. Citizens’ feedback includes face-toface interviews, interactive voice responses, telephone calls and responses that come through Swachh Survekshan web portal.
 
