Madurai: Migratory birds start visiting Madurai district by end of November nesting in the water bodies surrounding the city and go back by end of March. This year, not many birds could be seen in the water bodies, much to the disappointment of bird watchers. The migratory birds visiting Madurai includes Barn Swallows and Sandpipers from Northern Hemisphere, many type of harriers which are bird of prey, duck varieties like pin-tailed ducks, garganey ducks from Europe and West Asia, shoveller ducks from Europe in addition to usual winter visitors from the country like Pelicans and Flemingoes from Rann of Kutch.

 When the season starts, they come in large number. For an instance, Kunnathur and Vandiyur tanks alone will have nearly 15000 birds during winter months. Ornithologist, Dr T Badrinarayanan at Madurai says that not even 500 birds could be spotted in these tanks at present.
 
 Apart from the usual tanks, birds also flock wetlands like Samanatham as well as Avaniapuram tank which are fed by city’s sewage water. “It is intriguing there is not much water even in these wetlands this year and there are not many migratory birds could be seen there this year”, he said.
 
 N Raveendran from environmental organization, Iragugal says that the migratory birds, usually flocking Madurai water bodies, could have found better pastures this year. “The rainfall in central belt is handsome this year and lot of water bodies in Trichy region are full. The migratory birds coming from Northern region could have landed ahead of the region itself”, he reasoned.
 
 Another reason, Raveendran suspects is that ducks need shallow waters for feeding and the water bodies having water at present are not so shallow enough. “They may come during later part of this season when water level depletes in the tanks”, he added.
 
 C Kumaresan Chandrabose, a vivid bird enthusiast from the city, spotted a few number of Northern Shoveller, Northern Pin-tail, Grey bellied Cuckoos at Samanatham wetlands this time.
 
 During the visit to water bodies in the district, it could be seen aquaculture farmers, who had leased these water bodies for rearing fish, are not allowing the birds to flock the water bodies. Using a small raft, they chase away the birds landing in water fearing that they will feed on the fish they grew. They have also covered the surface with nets, preventing birds from foraging for the feed. The birds are scared away from the water bodies.
 
 
