CHANDIGARH: In a major relief to former Gujarat cricketer   and his family, the   and Haryana high court has set aside allegations of cruelty and harassment made against them by his then estranged wife in 2014.

 Gill used to play cricket with   at Under-17 level but his cricketing career was cut short in 2002 when he met with a road accident. In 2010, Tendulkar had borne the cost of his surgery.
 
 Justice Jaishree Thakur of the Punjab and Haryana HC passed these orders while exercising inherent powers of the high court.
 
 “This court has no hesitation in invoking its inherent powers under Section 482 CrPc in allowing the instant petition. Consequently, the January 29, 2014 order by which the petitioners have been summoned to face trial under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 498-A (cruelty and harassment) of the IPC is quashed along with all subsequent proceedings,” ordered the bench headed by Justice Thakur.
 
 Gill, his mother, and sisters were summoned by a Patiala court on complaint of his wife (now divorced) Rajwinder Kaur after she was booked by the Gujarat police for allegedly locking up the cricketer in a small room, starving him and frequently hitting him.
 
 The disturbing case of Gill’s incarceration had hit national headlines in April 2010 after his mother, Sukhdial Kaur had rescued him with the help of police from his rented house in Gandhinagar. At that time, Tendulkar had personally come to see Gill at the hospital and borne entire cost of his surgery.
 
 A case was also registered against Rajwinder of Patiala in Gandhinagar in April 2010 for wrongful confinement and causing hurt to her husband. She was even arrested.
 
 However, as a counter-measure to the FIR registered in Gandhinagar, his wife had registered an FIR for cruelty and harassment against Gill, his mother and two sisters at the Kheri Gandian police station in Patiala district of Punjab. Later, they were summoned by the judicial magistrate Rajpura in January 2014 to face trial in the case.
 
 In recently-released order, Justice Thakur said it was mandatory for the Rajpura magistrate to have conducted an inquiry under Section 202 of CrPc before summoning Gill and his family because they were residing beyond its jurisdiction.
 
 Aggrieved, Gill and his family had approached the high court to get the proceedings quashed. Their main plea was that Gill’s sisters were married and settled in Dubai and England much before his marriage. Similarly, Gill and his mother were also living in Gujarat, thus the magistrate had no power to summon them without holding an inquiry.
 
 The high court was also informed that a family court in Gandhinagar had already granted divorce to Gill on July 14, 2014 after holding that his wife treated him with cruelty. The couple had got married in 2006.
 
 
