CHENNAI: After the   on Friday declined to stay the CBI probe into the gutka scam in  , political parties demanded that chief minister   drop health minister C Vijaya Baskar from the state cabinet and remove DGP T K Rajendran from his post, accusing both of being involved in the case. If the CM failed to act, the CBI should write to the state government asking it to remove both to ensure a free and fair probe into the issue, they said.

 
 The Income Tax department has alleged that during searches in the residences and premises of Vijaya Baskar and Rajendran besides others, it had found ‘incriminating documents’ that suggested they had received bribes from a gutha manufacturing firm to permit the illegal sale of the banned tobacco products in Chennai.
 
 “The Supreme Court has refused to stay the Madras high court order. At least now the state health minister and DGP should resign as per convention. If both refuse to do so, the chief minister must drop the minister from the cabinet and ask the DGP to resign,” said DMK working president M K  .
 
 “Both the health minister and DGP were creating one hurdle after another for the DVAC probe into the gutka issue. The CBI must start its probe based on the dairy seized by the income tax investigation department during their searches,” said Stalin.
 
 PMK leader S   said the CBI should begin the probe immediately. “Now that the Supreme Court has refused to stay the CBI probe, health minister and DGP must step down from their posts,” Ramadoss said in a party release.
 
 “The SC order clearly says that it is only proper for CBI to probe the case as it involves a minister and senior police officials, including a DGP. If they are allowed to continue, it is nothing but shame for the state,” said Ramadoss.
 
 The scam came to light when income tax sleuths conducted searches in the premises of gutka dealers in Chennai and other places in 2016. During the searches, the IT search team seized a dairy of gutka dealer   in which he had kept details like names of persons to whom he had made payoffs.
 
 “On August 112016, then IT investigation principal director B R Balakrishnan personally handed over a letter to then chief secretary Rama Mohana Rao and sought appropriate action against the persons mentioned in the diary. Even after receiving the letter the government remained silent,” a senior I-T official told TOI.
 
 DMK then moved the Madras high court seeking a CBI probe and in April this year the high court ordered transfer of the case from DVAC to CBI.
 
 
