KOLKATA: There seems to be no light at the end of the tunnel for  .

 
 If   were the overwhelmingly dominant side in first session, the hosts looked better after the change of ends but ultimately went down 0-2 despite the visiting side being reduced to 10 men in their   match at Salt Lake Stadium on Saturday.
 
 BFC were a touch fortuitous in the third minute when ATK defender Jordi Figueras turned the ball into his own net and Miku Fedor ensured full points with his 10th goal of the campaign in 83rd minute. Albert Roca’s side played with a man less for more than 20 minutes after Rahul Bheke was sent off in 69th minute for two bookings.
 
 BFC’s third-consecutive win took them a step closer to the play-offs. They are comfortably perched atop the table with 27 points after 13 games. ATK lost their fourth match on the trot and remained on 12 points after 13 games.
 
 ATK’s interim coach  , beset with injury problems, once again started with only four foreigners, leaving   on the bench. They were jolted early on when Eduardo Garcia released Udanta Singh on the right flank and the latter crossed it for Miku. Figeuras did well to intercept it but, in an attempt to clear the danger, ended up placing the ball into his own net.
 
 Buoyed by the early goal, Bengaluru FC took control with the likes of Garcia, Erik Paartalu, Udanta Singh and Sunil Chhetri knocking the ball around with consummate ease. ATK found Udanta’s pace and skills too hot to handle and BFC came close on a few occasions but failed to increase lead.
 
 ATK, on the other hand, could have levelled the issue in the 32nd minute against the run of play when Jayesh Rane’s header beat Gurpreet Singh Sandhu but came back off the upright.
 
 Westwood brought on Keane before Bheke was sent off for two bookings in span of six minutes. Keane tried his best and also initiated a move in the 68th minute that presented an unmarked Jayesh with a simple tap-in to score but the winger ended up ballooning his effort.
 
 At the other end, Ashutosh Mehta denied Miku with a goalline clearance in 73rd minute but the Venezuelan marksman showed his predatory instinct 10 minutes later when he latched on to a through ball, beat Figueras with his speed and finished calmly past Debjit Majumdar.
 
 
