KOLKATA: Thousands of commuters, hundreds of fliers, scores of students, half a dozen patients and a cine star were among those caught in the mammoth traffic snarl triggered by the violence that raged at Chingrighata.

 The view from a window at a star hotel on EM Bypass told the story. The entire Ultandangabound flank was choked by unmoving cars. In the distance, black smoke spiralled out, signalling the trouble spot where buses had been torched following an accident.
 
 
 Six ambulances ferrying patients were among the vehicles stranded in traffic. The driver of one initially sounded the hooter hoping someone ahead would clear the way. But when the futility of the exercise became apparent, he switched off the ignition and waited with the others.
 
 Biswadeb Chatterjee, who works in an IT firm at   and usually reaches office in less than an hour was rooted to a spot near Chingrighata for two hours on Monday. “Everyone was caught in the madness. There were many people who had urgent work. But the wait seemed endless,” he recounted.
 
 Several students bound for   campus for an examination were delayed. Businessman Rajib Bhattacharjee was due to take an afternoon flight to Delhi and had started with time to spare from his office at Hastings. But he was still fretting on the Maa Flyover, caught in bumper-to-bumper traffic, when the flight took off. “This is insane. I was rooted to a spot with no place to go for two hours,” he fumed.
 
 He wasn’t the only one. A manager at Kolkata airport said over 100 passengers reported after the afternoon flights had departed. Most of the airlines accommodated them in later flights or offered them a seat on Sunday’s flights as they acknowledged the situation was beyond control. At least one flight was delayed as the crew was caught in the snarl.
 
 Uncertain about when cars would move, many commuters stranded atop Maa Flyover alighted from their vehicles and started walking. Hundreds heading to Central Park for the book fair ended up sitting in their cars and hoping they could return home. Book fair authorities extended the timings for an hour till 9pm to make up for the time lost in the afternoon.
 
 There were, however, a few lucky ones who managed to get out of the chaos quickly. “We were on   Bypass and noticed signs of chaos. Fortunately, we were on bikes and managed to move through the inner lanes of Sukanta Nagar to get out of the area within 10 to 15 minutes,” said  , who was going to his office at New Alipore.
 
 Even after 2.30pm, when traffic movement resumed, the pace was slow. “It took about 30 minutes to cross the stretch around 3pm,” said Kaushik Dasgupta, a resident of Salt Lake.
 
 Traffic movement on the Bypass stretch heading towards Chingrighata was affected again in the evening as thousands headed towards the book fair at Central Park and the   match in Salt Lake stadium.
 
 
  
 
