AGRA: After withdrawing their 15-day protest, which included a five-day hunger strike,   students’ union ( ) has now decided to fight its battle “legally” and push for a judicial probe into the May 2 violence over the issue of removal of Muhammad Ali Jinnah’s portrait from the student union hall.
 
  The AMUSU ended its protest on Wednesday night, hours after Fathima Nafees, mother of missing JNU student Najeeb Ahmad, requested them to end it. She told the protesting students that their fight was likely to go on for a long time and going on a hunger strike may not be enough to achieve the desired results.
  
  AMUSU president Maskoor Ahmad Usmani, who had joined the hunger strike on Monday, said, “We have temporarily suspended our dharna but the movement is not over. Our movement will continue till we get justice.”
  
  He said now students would visit different universities across the nation and “expose” the present government’s policies and continue to fight the “fascist” forces.
  
  On the issue of Jinnah’s portrait, Usmani said the protest had no connection with Jinnah’s portrait. He said the controversy was sparked by BJP with an eye on the Karnataka assembly elections and now, Jinnah’s djinn had disappeared after polls for the saffron party.
  
  Usmani said, “Our protest was not about him or his portrait because the portrait has been there since 1938. We are not his supporters. We were protesting against the use of brutal force against students and demanding quashing of the FIR against university students.”
  
  He, however, stressed that Jinnah’s portrait would not be removed till the human resources development ministry issues a circular for the same or the government promulgates an ordinance to the effect.
  
  The students have also expressed resentment against the university administration, which they feel, failed to rise to the occasion. They accused the vice-chancellor Tariq Mansoor of washing his hands of the protest and had pasted his “missing posters” on campus. Mansoor had visited the protest site and issued a statement, “sharing” the pain of the students. He had also endorsed their demand for a judicial inquiry into the May 2 violence.
  
  The controversy started with a letter written by BJP MP Satish Gautam to AMU VC on April 30 in which he questioned the presence of a Jinnah’s portrait in AMUSU office. On May 2, former Vice-President M Hamid Ansari was scheduled to visit the university at the invitation of the AMUSU. However, the programme had to be cancelled as Hindu right wing activists allegedly created a ruckus at Baba Syed gate.
  
  Then AMU students who were going to lodge the FIR against them were allegedly beaten up by police and Rapid Action Force after they started pelting stones on policemen when they tried to stop them.
  
  Recently, Ansari had also extended support to AMUSU by describing its demand for a judicial probe into May 2 violence as “justified”.
