CHENNAI: The   will ask doctors to   by May. While renewal is mandatory for them to continue practice, as a pre-requisite, doctors should have completed at least 30 hours of continuing medical education (CME) in the five-years, council president K Senthil said. 

 In 2012, the council, a statutory body that registers and regulates doctors, announced that it is mandatory for doctors to renew their licences every five years as per the   (MCI) guidelines. 
 
 "The deadline ended last year. Since this is a first time, we decided to fine doctors who have failed to complete the learning hours. We will also tell them to carry over the deficit hours to the next term. Renewal of licence will be mandatory for continuing practice," he said.
 
 The renewal will also help the council revise the registry, remove names of doctors who are dead and those who don't wish to practise. When the council conducted elections earlier this year, there were more than 1.23 lakh doctors registered. "But we don't know how many of them are still alive and in active practice. Having better data will give us accurate info on doctor-deficit districts, the percentage of doctors in rural vs urban areas and help provide evidence to government policy," he said.
 
 During the re-registration the council will also be able to update specialities of doctors and ensure they have recognised degrees. Between October and December 2017, at least 49 doctors who registered as emergency care specialists did not have a MCI recogonised post-graduate degrees.
 
 Senior academicians said doctors are expected to be up to date on medical subjects . "No doctor can stop studying after college. CME is mandatory for doctors in several countries. Medicine changes everyday. There are new diseases, new phenotypes and new treatment methods. Only continuous education can keep a doctor updated," said   vice chancellor Dr V Geethalakshmi. 
 
 The university awards marks for every medical education programme depending on the number of hours, the kind of faculty and organisers. The credit system is to encourage doctors to present papers and publish research in reputed medical journals but discourage events to promote a particular drug or equipment. 
 
 
