BENGALURU: A rainbow alliance is likely for the assembly elections as parties with disparate ideologies but united by progressive thinking are working to come together and contest the polls.

 The coalition to be named Janandolana Mahamaithri aims to unite Left parties and those with democratic, progressive and secular ideologies. Dalit writer Devanur Mahadeva and other intellectuals of the state have thrown their weight behind the idea and are working overtime to forge the alliance.
 
 “We are working to stitch together a grand alliance of forces against communal and  . We are at the preliminary stage of deliberations and have a long way to go,” said Mahadeva, president of Sarvodaya Karnataka Party (SKP) that merged with the Yogendra Yadav-led Swaraj India Party last year.
 
 SKP’s Karnataka unit, which has a lone   in K S Puttanniah who represents Melukote, is taking the lead and its leaders are trying to get on board the Communist Party of India (Marxist), Communist Party of India, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) under a rainbow alliance. A preliminary meeting of leaders of these parties was held on January 31 and was followed by another informal meeting on February 6.
 
 “The effort to forge the coalition started a year ago. The idea is to send representatives to the assembly who voice people’s issues and represent their movements,” said Siddanagouda Patil, national council member of CPI.
 
 Patil said the coalition is aiming to send at least 20 members to the assembly, and the modalities are being worked out about the nature of the alliance and identifying the seats to be contested.
 
 However, there are diverse views among leaders about the coalition’s political stance. Leaders like Mahadeva want it to be anti-JCB (acronym for JD(S), Congress and BJP) and maintain equal distance from the three parties. But CPM leaders feel the alliance should be mainly secular and against the  .
 
 “We want to unify secular forces to fight the common enemy that is BJP. If you say you are anti-JCB, then you are weakening your base and cannot be a viable alternative force,” said G V Srirama Reddy, former MLA and state secretary of CPM.
 
 The Aam Admi Party (AAP) too has its reservations. “The idea of a rainbow coalition sounds good. But can we compromise on our anti-corruption ideology for the sake of alliance? How do we explain our association with a party like BSP which has been charged with corruption in Uttar Pradesh? These are the questions we need to answer before going ahead with the proposal,” said  , state convener of AAP. 
 
 
