PUDUCHERRY:   will resume daily flight services between Union territory of Puducherry and Bengaluru from February 15. 

 The private airlines' 78-seater Bombardier will take off from Bengaluru at 9.40am and land in Puducherry at 10.30am daily. In the return direction, the flight will leave Puducherry at 10.50am and land in Bengaluru at 12.10pm daily.
 
 Even though the service will not come under the Union government's ambitious Udan (Ude Desh Ka Aam Naagrik) scheme for regional air connectivity, the private airlines has fixed a competitive fare ranging between Rs 1,700 and Rs 3,000. "The response is good. We have received more than 50% bookings for flights connecting Puducherry and Bengaluru. We expect good patronage for the air service," said a SpiceJet official. The private airlines launched flight services connecting Puducherry and Hyderabad under the Udan scheme in August last year. 
 
 With the resumption of flight services to Hyderabad and Bengaluru, Puducherry will be connected with other metros and cities, including New Delhi, Mumbai, Tirupati, Ahmedabad, Jaipur, Chandigarh, Vijayawada and Varanasi, with convenient onward connections on the SpiceJet network. The Puducherry government has asked TN government to provide land for expansion of airport located on Puducherry-Tamil Nadu border after a few private airlines expressed interest in launching flight services on Chennai-Puducherry-Salem-Coimbatore sector.
 
  Flight services that were launched in 1990 in Puducherry were suspended within two years. Vayudoot, an erstwhile joint venture between   and  , extended air services connecting Chennai and Puducherry from 1990 to 1992. But the services were stopped in 1992 due to shortage of aircraft. Moreover, the runway (1,222 metres) of the airport constructed in 1989 was not sufficient to handle the medium-type of aircraft. 
 
  The government acquired 19.92 hectares of land for Rs 18.67 crore and handed it over to   (AAI) for expansion. The   completed the first phase extending the runway to 1,500 metres and constructed the new terminal building. The government resumed flight services in 2013 after 21 years by collaborating with SpiceJet Ltd connecting the Union territory with Bengaluru and with other metro cities via Bengaluru in January 2013. However, within a year SpiceJet suspended its services after the airlines was forced to fly at two-thirds load as the runway was too short for their aircraft.
 
 The government in association with Alliance Air again resumed flight operations connecting Puducherry with Bengaluru and other cities via Bengaluru in 2015. However, the services were suspended within a few months.
 
 The private airlines' 78-seater Bombardier will take off from Bengaluru at 9.40am and land in Puducherry at 10.30am daily. In the return direction, the flight will leave Puducherry at 10.50am and land in Bengaluru at 12.10pm daily
 
 
