Saila Khurd (Garhshankar): Addressing a ‘poll khol’ rally here on Thursday, SAD president Sukhbir Badal targeted local bodies minister Navjot Singh Sidhu for allegedly terming the memorial of Guru Ravidas ‘Meenare-e-Begampura,’ being raised at Khuralgarh, as a white elephant. Khuralgarh village is part of Garhshankar constituency.

 Making a point, he said it was the Parkash Singh Badal government which spent crores to beautify religious places and started the work on the memorial at Khuralgarh. “But now those who are running the government term it as a white elephant. Our government started working on the project by spending Rs 100-150 crore but after the government changed, the work on this memorial was stopped. Sidhu had given a statement that there was no need to make the memorial as it was a white elephant,” Sukhbir alleged.
 
 Training his guns on the minister, Sukhbir said Sidhu was proving to be the biggest white elephant for the Congress and he was planning to leave the party after failing to make any mark in governance. “He is not loyal to any party,” he said, adding that the minster had even gone to the extent of not paying the dues of the company, which was maintaining the precincts around the Golden Temple. “Now, Youth Akali Dal volunteers have stepped in to do this service,” he maintained.
 
 Meanwhile, Sidhu rubbished Sukhbir’s allegation and termed it a ‘lie’ and challenged the former deputy chief minister to a public debate. “I have never been to Khuralgarh and I have never even mentioned the place or the memorial in any of my speeches or statements. This is his latest lie out of frustration as they have nothing to say about me,” Sidhu said. “I challenge Sukhbir to a debate. If he has guts he should accept my challenge,” Sidhu added. 
 
 Finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal had visited Khuralgarh on January 31 to attend a state-level function to mark the birth anniversary of Guru Ravidass and he had announced that work on the memorial would be expedited. 
 
 Akalis to gherao Punjab assembly
 
 The Shiromani Akali Dal has announced to gherao the Punjab assembly on the first day of the budget session next month to protest against the failure of the state government led by Amarinder Singh to fulfil poll promises, especially those related to farmers and weaker sections.
 
 Sukhbir shrugs off FM’s challenge 
 
 Sukhbir has shrugged off the challenge thrown by finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal for a debate after the former had alleged that his cousin was patronizing ‘goonda tax’ in Bathinda. Sukhbir said, “What debate, he does not know anything about finance and should focus on running his department.”
 
 
