Come   and stuff like sunscreen, sun shades and umbrellas become our shield against the relentless sun. But that only takes care of us from the outside. What we actually need to beat the heat is something that can keep us cool from the inside as well. A chilled glass of mocktail can do just that. But what’s even better is a mocktail made out of tea! Not only does it taste absolutely refreshing, it is also a much healthier alternative to your regular summer coolers. Packed with the goodness of   — from Assam, Darjeeling or the Nilgiris — these   are infused with real fruit slices that lend them a fruity flavour. We went around town to sample the best tea mocktails being rustled up at various tea lounges and cafes that can be your perfect chill buddy this season. 

  
  
 Where: Karma Kettle
 A tea room that has something for everyone, Karma Kettle, situated on the Swinhoe Street, offers a wide range of brews, both available in the cold and hot variants. For summers, their bestselling iced teas include the aam salaam, pina colada and blue lagoon. For aam salaam, Darjeeling black tea is flavoured with ripe and raw mangoes, and the addition of mint makes it a refreshing drink during a hot afternoon. Apart from that, it has passion fruit syrup, aamchur powder and sugar. The pina colada comprises black tea, pineapple juice, coconut milk and sugar to taste. And the azure-toned blue lagoon iced tea is made with mulberry leaf, flavoured with lime and butterfly pea flower tea bags along with a hint of sugar.
 
 
  
  
 Where: Traffic Gastropub
 The bourbon tea from Traffic Gastropub is garnished 
 beautifully with an orchid flower and pieces of orange. It is very refreshing as it contains bourbon syrup infused with green tea, English breakfast tea, homemade ginger-honey, orange and lavender syrup. This aromatic iced tea tastes delectable and is also good for health.
 
 
 
  
  
 Where: Whistling Kettle
 You get a feel of Darjeeling in Kolkata as you enter the Whistling Kettle. The tea boutique-cum-cafe’s hot Darjeeling tea brews are as famous as their iced teas. The best picks this season are green mint, honey lemon tea and lemon mint iced teas. Each of the tea-based mocktails has freshly brewed Darjeeling tea, mixed with generous amount of fruit syrups and loads of ice cubes. These drinks will surely cool you down and one can also enjoy them with the wide range of finger food on offer.
 
 
  
  
 
 Where: The Tea Place by Manjushree
 The special feature of this tea lounge is the collection of chilled white teas (manufactured at its own Manjushree Plantations in the Nilgiris) in exotic flavours like apricot, strawberry, and marigold, in addition to green teas with flavours of passion fruit, mint, orange and jasmine. Their apricot white ice tea and passion fruit green ice tea are best complemented with sides like chicken alfredo, garlic prawns and herb-crushed bekti fillets.
 
 
  
  
 Where: Coming Back to Life 
 If you want to disconnect from the hustle and bustle of the city and relax on a hot sultry afternoon, then drop in at the Coming Back To Life cafe, located in Lake Avenue. The cafe is based on the theme of spirituality, symbolism and cosmic value. Their food and beverage menu has options for both — fitness freaks and foodies. The watermelon ice tea and mango passion fruit both come with freshly chopped fruits, iced-tea liquor, lemon tea syrup and mint leaves. Packed with the nutrition of fruits, these tea-based mocktails will rejuvenate you in this hot weather.
 
 
  
  
 Where: Snacking Cafe
 This quaint cafe that opened two months back opposite a city mall is the perfect place to spend some fun time with your buddies over good food, non-alcoholic beverages, live music, board games and more. Their summer special, peach iced tea, is made using Assam tea liquor with a tinge of peach flavour along with brown sugar, cold water and lots of ice.
 
 
  
  
 
 Where: Yule Tea Lounge
 Situated in Eco Park, this tea lounge is known for serving delectable breakfast platters along with different types of hot brews. But summer calls for something cool and thus their iced teas in black currant and green apple flavours are a hit with the customers. Made from Assam CTC tea from Andrew Yule Garden, Rajgarh, the beverages contain ice and freshly made apple/ black currant juice, honey syrup and are topped with fresh mint leaves.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
