NEW DELHI: Prediction of a normal monsoon has cheered makers of consumer products such as refrigerators, TVs, tractors, two-wheelers and small cars, who expect sales to get a major push on rural demand. Companies such as LG, Maruti, Mahindra & Mahindra and   and Scooter India ( ), which have a significant exposure to rural and agri-dependent markets — say healthy rains for third year in running will be a “booster” and help generate strong overall demand.

 
 “Rural economy plays a vital role in our business, and contributes nearly 40% to our gross sales,” Sanjeev Agarwal, director (Sales) at LG India, told TOI. He added that categories such as washing machines, refrigerators, and medium-sized panel TVs will “gain substantially”. “To cash in on the expected boom, we are working on rural-specific products and strategies.”
 
 Sunil Vachani, chairman of contract-manufacturer  , said strong sales in rural areas are critical for ensuring a healthy growth for consumer durables and electronics sellers. “Penetration levels in cities and urban areas is pretty high. The next phase of growth will come from semi-urban and rural areas where monsoon and agriculture play important role.”
 
 HMSI, the country’s second-largest two-wheeler seller, also exuded confidence on the rural booster. “Rural markets have seen tremendous growth and today contribute nearly 30% to Honda’s domestic sales. The initial normal monsoon forecast by the Met department is good news for the farmer community,” YS Guleria, senior VP (sales & marketing) at HMSI, said.
 
 “The start of the marriage season and festivals like   will further lead to increased buying sentiments in rural areas in coming months.” As much as 70% of Honda’s new retail network will come up in rural areas with special finance schemes.
 
 Maruti Suzuki, the country’s biggest carmaker, said compact vehicles will benefit from healthy rains. “The Met forecast of a good monsoon for the third consecutive year is positive news. This will uplift the overall sentiment in the economy, and more so in nonurban areas. Vehicle sales in these markets constitute a substantial portion of our overall domestic sales,” R S Kalsi, senior director (marketing & sales) at  , said.
 
 Tractor companies are hoping for another year of growth. “The forecast of a triple-year normal monsoon will bring cheer to our farmers, creating opportunity for better production. We hope to see a tractor industry growth of 8-10% for the year,”  , president of Mahindra’s Farm Equipment Sector, said.
 
