MUMBAI: Dalit protesters broke the Shiv Sena’s monopoly on bringing Mumbai to a halt by 
  as violence broke out mainly in the suburbs, especially along JVLR (Jogeshwari-Vikhroli Link Road), including Powai. Rampaging mobs damaged vehicles, blocked roads and suburban trains, and intimidated shops into pulling down shutters. 

 It was almost a free for all as crowds indulged in stone-pelting, damaging BEST buses and private vehicles. Schools shut and some college exams were postponed while office-goers were scared to step out and harried commuters found themselves stranded in trains. Mumbai police came in for a lot of flak as citizens vented their anger at them for remaining passive bystanders instead of acting against the miscreants. 
 
 A senior   minister told TOI that the police were directed not to use teargas, lathis or any physical force. On Tuesday evening, when the bandh was declared, many people thought the Dalit protest would be restricted to a few pockets of the city and that the bandh would not disrupt life. However, most parts of the city were affected as the law-and-order machinery proved ineffectual. 
 
  
  
 CM   targeted left-wing extremists on Wednesday and also accused Jignesh Mewani, the newly elected Dalit MLA from  , Radhika Vemula, the mother of Dalit scholar Rohith Vemula, and others who visited Bhima-Koregaon on Sunday.
 
  
  
 
 The state government and the Mumbai police in particular came in for strong criticism on Wednesday for being silent spectators to rioting, stone-pelting and damage and destruction of public property by protesters. While many slammed the police force for not taking action even when they saw crowds running riot across the city, some others said that in several areas, they saw police personnel “escorting” the angry mobs. 
 
  
  
 
 Around 30,000 policemen, including personnel from the Rapid Action Force, riot control unit, State Reserve Police Force and crime branch officials were deployed all over the city. Most of the deployment was in sensitive areas like Chembur, Ramabai Nagar in Ghatkopar, Sion Pratiksha Nagar, Vikhroli, Mulund, Sakinaka, Asalpha, Kurla, Borivli, Goregaon and Kherwadi in Bandra (East). 
 
 
 
 
 Till late Wednesday evening, police reported stonepelting incidents from 10 to 15 places in which more than 50 vehicles, including private cars and BEST buses, were damaged. A BEST spokesperson later said 90 buses were damaged. Four BEST bus drivers were injured when glass panes were shattered by miscreants. 
 
 Police resorted to a mild lathicharge when protesters tried to set ablaze a Powai police chowki situated near an Ambedkar statue near the L&T entrance on Wednesday afternoon. Twenty policemen were injured in the attack and two police bikes were burned by the mob. Later in the evening, Powai police registered half a dozen cases against the protesters for unlawful assembly, rioting, assault and damaging public property. 
 
 Police said they would scan CCTV footage between Powai and Vikhroli and Powai and Jogeshwari to identify the rioters. Locals said the maximum damage and violence occurred in Powai and in the Vikhroli-Sakinaka belt. Powai residents said protesters used paver blocks as missiles to damage vehicles and pelted stones at cops.
