GURUGRAM: The city’s first   parking facility opened in Sector 29 on Monday is planning to operate   services to drop motorists at Huda City Centre metro station which is around 300 metres from it. The semi-automatic parking facility can accommodate 1,000 cars and 200 two wheelers, and will charge Rs 50 for three hours and thereafter Rs 10 an hour. The Huda officials believe that the   will encourage more people to use the parking facility.

 Most motorists are of the view that the new   parking facility will help curb illegal parking on roads to a great extent if the connectivity between the parking lot and the metro station is provided. 
 
 CR Vishnoi, consultant for the parking project appointed by Huda, told TOI that the company might tie up with an e-rickshaw provider to offer shuttle ride from the parking facility to the nearest metro station.
 
 He further said the project started in 2014 and was completed in March 2018. The semi-automatic parking facility will be managed by private firm IIPL under the supervision of Huda.
 
 The facility has five floors and two basements. To make the project economically viable, the first and the ground floor of the project will house only commercial establishments, according to an official. The new car parking complex has been built at a cost of Rs 125 crore. 
 
 Vishnoi said the parking facility would definitely encourage commuters to use public transport and minimise
 
 the use of private cars. Various government agencies, including HSIIDC and MCG, have drafted several other proposals to come up with multi-level car parking projects in other parts of the city and all are in the pipeline.
 
 Anubhav Sharma, a Gurugram-based transport expert, said the last-mile connectivity is the city’s major concern. “If the private firm doesn’t offer a shuttle service, car users will find it difficult to travel from the parking facility to the metro station. The problems in last-mile connectivity should be addressed on priority,” he said. 
 
 The land for the multi-level car parking facility has been leased out to IIPL, and the building has been named TRILIUM AVENUE. The land has been leased out on a rent of Rs 2.66 crore a year, which will be increased by 10% every three year.
 
 Former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda had laid the foundation of the parking project in 2014. In 2015, the tenders were floated for the project after chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar gave permission for the project.
 
 “Huda City Centre metro station is one of the busiest metro stations with a lot of commercial establishments in the adjoining areas. The parking facility has been built at a reasonable price and is expected to benefit many commuters by increasing the use of public transport,” said Dr Chandrasekhar khare, Huda administrator. 
 
 
