 might be the national crush at the moment, but this is not the first time Malayalis have won over the internet. In fact, it’s almost like a yearly ritual for us to witness the rise of a hitherto unknown person to celebrity status. While a few of Priya’s predecessors have banked on the fame to further their career, others decided to lie low. We take a look at what Kerala’s involuntary celebrities are currently up to:

 
 
 
 If Jimikki Kammal got viral among Malayalis for its catchy beats and lyrics, it was Sheril Kadavan who took it across the world by shaking a leg to the song at her campus, for their Onam celebrations. The dance video went viral in no time, and Sheril, who was a teacher of accounting at a Kochi-based college till then, transformed into someone with a massive online fan club called Sheril army dedicated to her. Alongside fetching words of appreciation from film industry biggies, she even got a chance to do a special appearance in a Tamil film — Suriya-starrer Thaana Serntha Koottam alongside her friend Anna, who was also part of the dance video.
 
 
  Sheril had declared that she is not interested in pursuing a career in entertainment, and is currently teaching in another Kochi-based management college.
 
 
 
 Payyannur resident M P Ramachandran was at a local railway station in Kannur, checking his mobile phone, when someone captured a photo of him, struck by his uncanny resemblance with PM Narendra Modi. The beard, the spectacles, the grey hair… Ramachandran was a true doppelganger. However, once a Mumbai-based comedy group made a funny picture of Modi alongside his, for a post, it got Ramachandran into trouble. He even said in later interviews that he is sick of all the attention and is planning to shave off his beard.
 
 
 Faded into oblivion post the incident, living a normal life
 
 
 
 
 She was an ordinary homemaker, until a relative of hers recorded a video of her casually singing a Malayalam song beautifully, holding her baby. He shared it on social media, and her hidden talent went viral, bringing in a flurry of appreciation from all, including renowned musicians. Chandralekha went on to sing in a Malayalam film and later in a Tamil one, and shared the stage with veteran singers like K S Chithra.
 
 
 ? Though away from the limelight, Chandralekha has a career in music now, and is busy with stage shows in and outside Kerala.
 
 
 
 All she did is take part in a game show aired on a TV channel, but Sana caught the fancy of numerous Malayali men once her photo got circulated on social media. Her fans raved over her ‘thattathin marayathe pennu’ look, innocent smile and local slang. However, not all were pleased with the attention she garnered, especially, her conservative family. Her phone number was deactivated soon and ever since, she has disappeared from the online space. 
 
 
 She is a BA Arabic student at Brennen College, Thalassery.
 
 
 
 
 Her curly, voluminous hair was what caught the eye of netizens, soon after the first song from Anupama’s debut movie Premam got released. Alongside the music, the young actress also became a sensation in no time. Her hair even inspired a reversal of trends at that time, as girls started to embrace their natural curls, rather than getting them straightened. Anupama went on to became a much sought after actress in Telugu, after debuting in Malayalam.
 
 
  She did a handful of successful films in Telugu, and her next is again in Tollywood, with Nani.
 
 
 
 
 If it’s her wink that worked for Priya, and her hair for Anupama, Sai Pallavi caught the fancy of Malayali men with an adorable, pimply face! The unconventional love story of the movie, Sai Pallavi’s unique voice, her casual style of dressing and even her dance moves… all of them won her a battalion of fans in the online space. The actress continues to enjoy a solid fanbase, though she did only two Malayalam films since her debut here in 2015. 
 
 
 Awaiting the release of her Tamil and Telugu films
 
 
 
 
 A professor at Kerala Varma College, Thrissur, Deepa Nisanth became a known face when she was targeted for supporting the beef protest held in the college campus, in 2015. However, the controversy turned out to be a blessing in disguise for the writer and activist in her, as her posts online started getting followed widely. She didn’t hesitate to raise her voice further in connection with numerous other issues, and also went on to be a renowned writer.
 
 
 ? Emerged as a strong female voice in the State
 
