JAIPUR: Despite making progress on   and other economic fronts,   along with states like Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, and Madhya Pradesh are lagging behind on social indicators which is a major reason for the lower ranking of India in the  , said   CEO Amitabh Kant earlier this week. 

 While a cross section of people including policy watchers and social entrepreneurs agreed with what Kant said, they also pointed out that things are beginning to change in Rajasthan in recent years, especially in education even as healthcare remains a big area of concern in the rural areas of the state.
 
  
 In National Achievement Survey, 2017, conducted by National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT), the findings show Rajasthan is doing relatively better than some of the leading states in the country and fares better than average national outcome despite a decline in the level of performance in Class III compared to Class V.
 
 In subjects like environmental science, language and mathematics, the performance of the students is close to 60% which is higher than many advanced states.
 
 Kulbhushan Kothari, Pratham's managing trustee in Rajasthan, said the state has witnessed some improvements in the past couple of years and the survey reflects those changes.
 
 Attributing the reasons for the outcome, Kothari said, "The state has brought in some management reforms in the elementary education in the state with the merger and closer of schools. By closing schools where the students were far less than the required strength helped the department in deploying the freed-up resources in other schools. Such a move has had an impact," added Kothari.
 
 The focus on teacher accountability and improving the student-teacher ratio has paid off marginally but Kothari feels the state needs to do more to achieve an overall visible improvement.
 
 While Rajasthan's economy is growing almost at the national rate of expansion of around 7%, the progress in health sector has not been commensurate.
 
 The "Performance in Health Outcomes" Index by Niti Aayog that covers indicators like the neonatal mortality rate, under-five mortality rate (U5MR), total fertility rate, and immunization coverage shows a lacklustre progress by Rajasthan.
 
 In 2015-16, Rajasthan ranked at 20th position at the bottom of the table among the 21 larger states, just above Uttar Pradesh.
 
 "The state is serious about addressing the problems but its priorities are not clear. And also the implementation doesn't match the intentions. The civil society is now taking up the issues but these activities are limited to pockets," said V S Vyas, former deputy chairman, state planning board, Rajasthan and prof emeritus, JDS Jaipur.
 
 He said pregnant women are not covered under Anganwadi programme, and their inclusion would have improved the health of the infants.
 
 "Now, Anganwadi programme only attends to the newborn babies. But if the pregnant women is not healthy, how can her baby be? So, they should also be brought under the schemes," said Vyas, adding, "Child marriages are another reason for the poor health of the infants and the practice needs to be stopped."
 
 The backwardness in education and healthcare may be legacy issues for the state government, but rapid economic growth has given the state required financial resources to address the issues. But as Vyas said, what the state needs to is to make implementation the top priority.
 
 
