HYDERABAD: Blackberry (also named Moti), a mixed-breed dog raised by Srinivas Naidu's family at   in Khairatabad, was accidentally picked up by the   dog squad on February 5, 2018 as part of animal birth control programme, but it never returned to the owner. While animal rights activists are searching for  , many people who adopted stray dogs or their puppies say that their dogs are missing or getting infected after Animal Birth Control Sterilisation.

 Acomplaint has been lodged with GHMC’s vigilance cell stating that the dog squad and veterinary department in GHMC’s Central Zone are not following the procedures laid down by Animal Welfare Board of India like not releasing the dogs in the same area and canines becoming weak and infected. However, GHMC denied the allegations, saying all dogs are operated and released in the same area and suggested that the released dogs could have migrated to neighbouring areas due to fear.
 
 
 Moti’s owner   told TOI, “Moti’s mother gave birth to four puppies, and we are raising them. One is half blind. On February 5, Moti was roaming outside the house with Tommy, her mother. Both of them along with other dogs were bundled into a van by dog catchers. Luckily, Tommy escaped. When my husband Srinivas Naidu ran behind the van, he was told that they would release it near the highway after two weeks. When we approached GHMC later, they said it was released near NIMS. We searched the entire area but could not find Moti.”
 
 In a complaint to GHMC vigilance cell, locals Jyothi and Aruna from Kavadiguda alleged, “Street dogs and domestic dogs from our colony were taken to GHMC rescue centre on March 21and our dogs were not found in rescue centre at Amberpet.”
 
 J D Wilson, assistant director of veterinary department of GHMC central zone, told TOI: “Based on complaints from locals, our teams pick up dogs and sterilise them. We don’t kill them. We follow the rules and release them in the same locality. Moti, the particular dog they are talking about, may have been living in the neighbouring areas due to fear. We don’t have a place to keep the dogs in dog pounds, and we release them four days after vaccination, deworming and sterilisation.”
 
