As Chandigarh was selected to be developed as a ‘model solar city’, the   is   a push. TOI looks at the procedure, price and benefits of the solar rooftop system

 
  
  
 How to get the system?
 
 There are five steps involved in getting a solar rooftop system. The applicant has to submit an application to the electricity department and pay a registration fee of Rs 50 per kW. The electricity department will conduct a technical feasibility survey for connecting the solar plant to their  . If the department approves the proposed system, it will issue a feasibility intimation letter. With the help of the letter, the applicant can procure and install the system. After the installation, the applicant will communicate the same to the electricity department which will conduct a safety inspection. The system will be commissioned after the department replaces the existing service connection meter with a bidirectional connection meter
 
 
 How long does it take?
 
 Depending on the size of a plant, it takes between 6 to 12 weeks to complete the installation. A plant less than 10 kW is installed within 6 weeks
 
 WHAT ARE THE BENEFITS?
 
 There are both individual and environmental benefits. The consumer meets his own electricity requirements. The system reduces electricity bills, provides uninterrupted power supply in the building during power cuts, and eliminates minimum monthly charges. Solar power lowers the burden on fossil fuels for energy requirements and reduces emission levels
 
 Is it mandatory?
 
 Installation of solar photovoltaic power plant is mandatory for residential and non-residential buildings measuring 500 square yard and above in Chandigarh. The height of the structure carrying solar panels is not counted in the total height of the building as permitted by building bylaws. No approval is required from the   and the estate office for installing solar plants in the existing or new buildings
 
 What is net metering?
 
 It is an arrangement through which a solar power system is linked to an electrical connection of a consumer and the solar energy exported to the grid is adjusted in terms of units imported from the electricity department during a billing cycle
 
 What is gross metering?
 
 Gross metering refers to an arrangement under which the total solar power generated is exported to the grid. According to the solar tariff, the administration has fixed a buying rate at Rs 8.57 per unit for gross metering connection
 
 Story so far
 
 Solar rooftop plants have been installed in as many as 260 government buildings and 255 private buildings. The existing solar rooftop plants are generating 28 million units (MU) per annum, equivalent to reduction of 2,1598 metric tonne of CO2 and planting a total of 15.3 lakh trees. Of 28 MU, a bulk of power has been produced by plants on government buildings
 
