While women of Tollywood are telling their casting couch horror stories, Rakul Preet is in constant denial about it. Speaking at an event to condemn the abusive language of a popular regional news channel about actresses, she said that she never had such experiences so far in Telugu film industry and maintained that casting couch doesn't exist in Tollywood.

  Slamming the ‘Spyder’ actress, Maadhavi Latha and   said that Rakul is painting a pretty picture of the Telugu film industry and is refraining from speaking the truth out of fear of losing out on opportunities. Maadhavi went on to suggest that Rakul should create awareness for young actresses rather than denying its existence. Sri Reddy went on to say that she can even release the names of the filmmakers involved in casting couch as a proof.
 
  This is not the first time Rakul has asserted that she never had such experiences. According to her, ‘topics like casting couch are discussed and debated more because there is more masala there’. In a previous interview with us, she said, “In India, we find something interesting and we start talking about it for six months and then we forget about it. There are a lot more important and bigger things to be spoken about I feel. People forget the rapes that happen. Topics like casting couch are discussed and debated more because there is more masala there. Having said that, I feel that the basic human nature is that of an opportunist. One cannot do anything about it and it is a male dominated world. Having worked in 20-odd films, I’ve not faced a situation where someone has tried to act funny with me. This is a message to aspiring girls also, it is not easy. Nobody is going to spend `20-30 crores on a film just because you are an easy girl. It is talent that survives and you need to have that in your head. It is about what you project and I think I come across as a person they cannot really speak much to. I’ve heard of things, but I don’t know how they function. I’ve been lucky that I’ve got all good people around me. If you work on your talent, then you will get work sooner or later.”
 
