NAGPUR: Shiv   activists created a ruckus over the issue of separate Vidarbha during the launch of journalist Sujata Anandan’s book ‘Maharashtra Maximus: the state, its society and politics’ at Patrakar Club, Civil Lines, on Monday. The chaos continued for an hour and forced Vidarbha protagonist Shirhari Aney to leave the venue.

 A debate on ‘Separate Vidarbha’ based on a chapter picked up from the book was supposed to be held followed by the book release. But the verbal war between activists from both the parties caused several disruptions leading to the exit of panellists former MLC Girish Gandhi, former MP Vijay Darda, and Aney.
 
 Aney’s remarks apparently triggered the ruckus. The lawyer was asked if the fight for separate Vidarbha was based merely on emotions or some practicality. Aney confidently replied all the people from the region strongly desired split with Mahashtra state for Vidarbha’s bright future and said, “People often claim that demand for Vidarbha is not as strong as it should be and the supporters do not fight with determination for the cause.”
 
 To contradict this notion, he asked the supporters present at the venue to raise their hands. They started shouting slogans of ‘Jai Vidarbha’. This did not go down well with the united Maharashtra supporters which mainly consisted of Shiv Sena activists and they started chanting counter-slogans of ‘Jai Maharashtra’.
 
 Sena leader Anandrao Adsul took over the podium amidst the argument and spoke about the agitations in the districts around Maharashtra to be included in the state. He said formation of Maharshtra was not even complete yet and the demand to divide the state was baseless.
 
 Speaking to TOI Adsul said, “I was well aware that people from two extremely opposite ideologies will be present during the debate. I wanted to gracefully listen to their take on it. But the act by Aney to show-off power of separate Vidarbha supporters was not right and I condemn it.”
 
 Adsul also believed that since BJP and Sena have taken charge of Maharashtra, they have worked well for the development of the whole state. Lawyer Neeraj Khandewale from Vidarbha Rajya Aghadi and former DGP Prabir Chakraborty took a seat on the dais after other panellists left.
 
 Congress leader Avinash Pande said, “Indeed we want Vidarbha to be free and it is our right, but this is not the right time. We need to incorporate significant changes in the policies to create a better infrastructure, education system and improve the condition of our farmers. When we stand on an equal footing with Mumbai, only then we should demand independence.”
 
 
