Some economists try to predict the next downturn by analysing data and devising algorithms. Others count the number of pregnant women or look inside underwear drawers

 
 
 
 A study published recently by the   has found that when the fertility rate dropped, the economy was about to slow down. Researchers analysed more than 100 million births over almost 20 years, and discovered that about six months before each of the past three recessions in America, the number of pregnancies started falling.
 
 "One way to think about this is that the decision to have a child often reflects one’s level of optimism about the future," said Kasey Buckles, a professor at the   in Indiana and co-author of the study
 
 
 
 
 This formula for gloom comes courtesy of the  , which tracked the use of the R-word (recession) in financial newspapers. The more frequent the stories about recession, the more reluctant businesses and consumers were to spend
 
 
 
 According to the New York Times, the hemline theory goes back to the 1920s when economics professor George Taylor, in a PhD thesis on hosiery, theorised that there could be a link between the   index and hemlines: the stronger the market, the higher the hemline. More recent evidence has suggested that skirt length only changes a few years after the economic cycle so don’t count on it to predict much. Fashion has given us other unlikely economic indicators: IBM’s high-heel index found heels become higher in a downturn, and the lipstick index, coined by Estée Lauder chairperson Leonard Lauder in 2001, claimed sales skyrocket in hard times as women turn to lipstick instead of more costly luxuries. Why spare men’s sartorial choices? Buy stocks when men buy socks, goes one saying. Underwear sales, too, go up in better times as men get rid of their holey briefs
 
 
 
 Andrew Lawrence, an economist at a British investment bank, posited in 1999 that super-tall buildings signaled an overheated economy on the verge of going bust. For instance, the Sears Tower was built just as the US hit stagnation and Malaysia was hit by the Asian financial crisis soon after   was completed. Even Dubai’s property market plummeted with the ascent of the Burj Khalifa
 
 
 
 
 There are two theories about how recession affects relationships. One school says in times of hardship, more couples part ways. Another theory is that divorces are expensive, so people put them off till the value of their assets improves
 
