MYSURU: A six-year-old   that   district police had in its possession of a chargesheeted man helped them solve two   cases, as many attempt-to-murder cases and seven thefts that were reported over the past two years. The arrest of 36-year-old Nagendra of Nanjangud has led cops to a major breakthrough in these cases.

 Nagendra has been arrested on charges of murdering two women near Hunsur, within Bilikere police station limits – an incident that occurred nearly a year ago. Police said that it was a case of murder for gain, and added that Nagendra was committing crimes with an iron rod.
 
 Elaborating on Nagendra’s modus operandi, police said, “He rented a room near the  , and was in the habit of prowling the streets of the village seeking prospective victims, preferably women out alone on the road.”
 
 Nagendra, a native Tumbanerale village in Nanjangud, had taken to crime to make quick money and to fulfill his vices. 
 
 An officer, said Nagendra carried a rod with him to use it as a weapon to attack lone woman. He was hitting hard on heads and killing them in one strike. Three women is said to have survived his attack. Police said he robbed them of their jewels even as they were bleeding to death. He sold robbed jewels to pawnbrokers and known persons and took money from them only to lead a lavish life. He was a college dropout and separated from his family ever since he involved himself in various crimes including offences against human body. 
 
 Nagendra was booked for theft and assault by district police – in 2007 and 2012, and was remanded to judicial custody. “He returned to his criminal ways after he was out on bail,” an officer said.
 
 Police official said that they had photographed Nagendra in 2012, which was preserved in the records section. A close examination of the offences committed by Nagendra then helped cops perceive the similarities in the murders he allegedly committed a year ago.
 
 Nagendra has also been accused of burgling temples and homes in Mysuru villages. Police have sought custody of Nagendra to probe other unsolved cases to know his involvement, if any. 
 
 
