NEW DELHI:   head coach   has expressed his happiness about the team’s undying spirit throughout the tournament. Time and again,   have defied the odds and it was once again evident in the   Eliminator where they beat   to set up a clash with   in the second Qualifier. 

 
 
 
 Batting first, KKR ended up putting 169 on the board and bowled splendidly to limit the Royals to 144/4, winning the match by 25 runs. Kallis, writing in Friday’s column for TOI, pointed out that he was glad with the way KKR fought back from 24/3 to put up, as it turned out, a winning total.
 
 
 
 “Once again the most pleasing aspect of Wednesday’s victory against Rajasthan was the way we fought when it looked like we were in trouble, whether it was being 24 for three or when they reached 100 for one. This team simply does not know when to give up, and I trust they never will,” Kallis, who played 166 Tests and 328 ODIs for South Africa, wrote.
 
 The win meant that KKR have now won last four of their matches, something that bodes well for the two-time IPL winners ahead of the all-important Qualifier. Kallis showered praise on skipper Dinesh Karthik for his handling of matters in pressure situations, along with youngster Shubman Gill and the powerful West Indies allrounder Andre Russell.
 
 “DK (Dinesh Karthik) has been superb in controlling the middle order and the middle overs throughout the tournament and, once again, Shubman Gill showed that he is a class player with the valuable ability to read the match situation and play accordingly. Normally we put that down to experience but he’s only 18,” Kallis added.
 
 “Russ (Russell) showed how dangerous he can be and, although some people may still have thought we were a few runs light, when he was doing his thing in the last four overs I always thought he was putting us not just back on course but slightly ahead of the game. It was a tough wicket to bat on but he is a remarkable cricketer.”
 
 Royals were going strong at 109/2. Sanju Samson’s half-century, along with skipper Ajinkya Rahane’s controlled innings seemed to be holding things together for the inaugural IPL winners, but once the Rajasthan skipper went, the wheels just came off and the next batsmen struggled to get going.
 
 “Despite the Royals making a really good start and laying a strong platform, we bowled well enough to stay in the game and the run rate never dropped low enough for them to take control. It was a hard surface to score quickly on and that’s why the Royals weren’t able to accelerate when they needed to,” Kallis pointed out.
 
 “When we took a wicket we pounced, turning the screws on the new batsman and giving him nothing. A couple of dot balls and singles at the start of a batsman’s innings can put him under huge pressure almost immediately and suddenly the asking rate is more than ten an over and climbing,”
 
 The crucial Qualifier 2 clash between KKR and Sunrisers take place Friday evening with the winner facing Chennai Super Kings in the final on Sunday.
 
