MUMBAI: In an order that may make litigants or lawyers think twice before seeking adjournments, the Bombay high court slapped costs of Rs 4.5 lakh on a public charitable trust for a delay of 450 days in filing an affidavit in a pending dispute over land. “Let me put it plainly. No more adjournments. No more ‘tareek pe tareek’. Enough is enough,’’ said Justice Gautam   of the high court when Ram Nagar Trust No 1 wanted one more week to file its affidavit. 

 The Trust had moved the HC almost a decade ago, in 2009. The suit against ML Sheikh and others is over land for an educational or charitable purpose.
 
 In September 2016, the HC had framed issues in the case and the Trust was to give its evidence affidavit and list of witnessed by October 24 that year. But it did nothing and when on February 27 it sought a week to comply, Sheikh’s lawyer said that the Trust has no valid reasons and should be put to terms instead. Justice Patel agreed and said a cost of Rs 1000 per day for each day’s delay “in this day and age is not at all unreasonable.’’ “Anything less than that is illusory and meaningless…’’ said the Judge. “Fixing ad hoc figures like 5000 or rs 25000 is counter productive. Paties believe that even if delay is inordinate, the cost will be negligible and hence they continue to extend the delay. The cost must be real.’’
 
 “That a Court will endlessly grant adjournments is not something that parties or advocates can take for granted. Nor should they assume that there will be no consequences to continued defaults and unexplained delay,’’ said Justice Patel, to drive home the point that consequences will not be “piffling trifle’’.
 
 The HC directed the Trust to pay the amount to Sheikh by March 7.
 
 The Trust had sought reduction of the costs imposed, saying that its affidavit was ready earlier but never filed. The HC found it “even more shocking that a Trust should be so utterly negligent about its own case.’’ “It is reason enough to warrant immediate action against the trustees and have every one of them removed. A public Trust has a higher duty of care, not a lower one,’’ said the HC. Justice Patel added, “Before courts, all parties are equal, We will make exceptions for the poor, the illiterate, the helpless. They will receive our protection. But educated trustees charged with solemn duty will not get a free pass only because they claim to espouse some worthy cause.’’
 
 Observing that for “far too long’’ courts had been issuing directions with no consequences for default, Justice Patel said orders of high costs would galvanise a defaulter into compliance. “Parties and their advocates will understand that directions for filing is not a recommendation. It is an order of the Court. Compliance is mandatory, not optional.’’
 
 Justice Patel, who rarely minces words, warned that “in future” applications to reduce costs may only ensure they are “doubled.’’ Throwing a mathematical googly for some, Justice Patel concluded, “As a matter of mathematical certainty, there is always near at hand the Fibonacci sequence of numbers.’’
 
