HYDERABAD: In what can be called a fishy scam, bankers and borrowers conspired to secure hundreds of crores of rupees as loans in the name of fish culture, a ghost project. Non-existent ‘fish and fish seeds’ stocks were hypothecated as primary security to fraudulently obtain loans.

 The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Hyderabad branch, has filed two separate cheating cases on Thursday against 42 persons, including borrowers, aggregators, bank officials and bank valuers for cheating IDBI of Rs 539 crore.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 CBI booked the accused for criminal conspiracy, cheating, forgery, criminal misconduct and misappropriation, criminal breach of trust by a public servant and showing forged documents as genuine. The offences allegedly took place between 2009 and 2014.
 
 In the first case, the complaint was lodged by Manjunath Pai, general manager and senior regional head of IDBI Ltd, Hyderabad. The massive fraud on pisciculture (fish farming) loans took place in different branches of IDBI in Basheer Bagh, Habsiguda, Hyderabad and   branch in Visakhapatnam.
 
 In the FIR, CBI said: “IDBI officials connived with 220 borrowers comprising 22 aggregators and caused pecuniary loss of Rs 193 crore to IDBI Bank, and the current outstanding with respect to these loans is Rs 445 crore. They availed Kisan Credit Card ( ) and pisciculture loans by submitting fake documents and overvaluing collateral property and failed to repay loans. Later, these loans turned non-performing assets (NPA) due to which banks suffered losses. Survey numbers mentioned in loan applications do not have fish cultivation and sanctioned advances were misappropriated for the purpose other than loans sanctioned. Loans amounts were diverted to individual saving banks accounts and withdrawn for another purpose.”
 
 The borrowers belonged to East Godavari, West Godavari and Krishna districts in   and Adilabad districts in  , but on the ground, no fish farming was undertaking in survey numbers.
 
 In the second case, the complaint was lodged by Dhananjay Lele, IDBI general manager, who stated 142 borrowers took KCC and pisciculture loans of Rs 33 crore and by the time it turned NPA, it was Rs 51 crore and as on date, the outstanding is Rs 94 crore.
 
 “In the second case, accused availed loans by submitted fake primary security by hypothecating fish, fish seed, stocks in trade and book debts and faulty collateral security of vacant agricultural lands and based on the fake documents, loans were given. Fake pattadar passbooks of fish tanks which do not belong to the borrowers were created. However, the fishponds could not be located and there was no pisciculture in the lands.
 
