NAGPUR: The   (FDA) laid a trap and exposed an unauthorized ayurveda capsule manufacturing unit and two sales centres. Capsules worth Rs3 lakh were seized on Saturday.

 The two sales centres — Maa Gayatri Retail (Hingna Road) and Ma Gayatri Yoga and Naturopathy Clinic,   (Kamptee Road) — claimed to be specializing in curing arthritis and cancer. Both were being run by Suresh Pashine, who claimed to be an ayurveda practitioner.
 
 Pashine’s compounder   was manufacturing the capsules in his own house at   under the brand of Palash Ayurvedics.
 
 Assistant commissioner (drugs) Dr Pushpahas Ballal said capsule samples were sent to FDA laboratory for testing the contents. “We have recorded statements of all persons and will be filing a case in the court soon.” The raid was carried out under the guidance of joint commissioner (drugs) PN Shende.
 
 Ballal told TOI, “A long queue of patients was always seen standing at both the centres. FDA investigations revealed Raut was manufacturing the capsules for last three years. Patients from Nagpur district and adjoining states would come to Pashine. This aroused our curiosity. After sending dummy patients, we purchased packets of capsules without labels. We then started plotting the raid. After keeping a close eye on the operation for seven days, three squads from FDA carried out simultaneous raids at three units.”
 
 Raids at the two centres were carried out by two teams consisting of drug inspectors Shrikant Fule, Satish Chouhan, Monika Dhawad, and Neeraj Lohkare.
 
 The raid at the manufacturing site was led by Ballal and drug inspectors   and Mahesh Gadekar. At the compounder’s residence, where the capsules were being manufactured, the team seized the hand filling capsule machine and medicine, in all costing Rs90,000.
 
 It is learnt that Raut used to procure empty gelatin capsules from Indore. He purchased the medicinal content from Raj Ayurvedic Pharmacy, a medicine manufacturer at Hathras, Uttar Pradesh (UP). At his residence, he had kept a machine with compartments to fill 300 capsules at a time. After filling the medicinal content, he would close the capsule with caps manually.
 
 Raut did not have a licence for doing all this, said an official, explaining, “One doesn’t require a licence to sell ayurvedic medicines, but manufacturing the same requires a licence.”
 
 “At the manufacturing site, packs of 1,000 capsules were being prepared and supplied to the two centres. At the centres, the packets containing 30 capsules were being prepared for ease of selling. That’s what FDA acquired by sending dummy patients,” said Ballal adding, “It was a well-planned raid.”
 
 He said, “We have seized 10 different types of tablets, all having different colours, probably to signify the illness. None of the packets at manufacturing site or sales site had any labels, and were being sold in transparent plastic bags.”
 
 An FDA official said, “We did not check the authenticity of Pashine’s ayurveda qualification, since it doesn’t come under our jurisdiction.”
 
 TOI learnt that if an unqualified candidate is prescribing medicines to patients in city limits then Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has the authority to take action.
 
 In this case, Pashine sits at Hingna centre on Tuesdays and Wednesdays for a few fours. Pashine gives consultation only at the Bhilgao centre, where Zilla Parishad (ZP) is the concerned authority to conduct enquiry and take action.
 
 
