JODHPUR: Forty-eight hours after a trial court convicted film star   for poaching two blackbucks in 1998 and sentenced him to five-year imprisonment, an upper court on Saturday suspended the sentence and granted him bail. 

 The court directed Salman not to leave the country without its permission and submit a personal bond of Rs 50,000 and two sureties of Rs 25,000 each for the bail. The bail order from the court reached the Jodhpur Central Jail at 4.55pm. Salman soon emerged from its premises at 5.35 pm and was quickly escorted by his body guards to a car that drove him straight to the airport, from where the actor flew back to Mumbai in a chartered plane.
 
 
  
 
  Hundreds of fans who had gathered outside the central jail erupted in joy on seeing Salman emerge out of the prison gates. They shouted slogans, sang songs, burst crackers and showered flower petals on his pictures outside the jail in anticipation amidst a strong police cordon. The Jodhpur district and sessions court, which suspended the sentence, will now hear the 52-year-old actor's appeal against his conviction on May 7. Salman will have to be present in court during the hearing of the appeal or will have to move an application seeking exemption from personal appearance. 
 
  Salman's lawyers had sought suspension of the sentence on the ground that the high court had acquitted him in two other poaching cases related to the present case (poaching at Jodhpur's Kankani village) and rejected corroborative evidence relied upon by the trial court. 
 
  Pointing to contradictions in the postmortem reports, defence lawyer Mahesh Bora had argued, "The first postmortem report by Dr Nepalia said the two blackbuck corpses had no gunshot wounds and that one of them had died from dog bites while the other after falling in a ditch." 
 
 The forest department was not convinced by this report and constituted a medical board consisting of three doctors. "The board's final report said the cause of death cannot be established. After examining the animal's skin, the board said the wound was probably from a gunshot. Ultimately, the bones were sent for FSL, which said there were no gunshot marks on any of the bones," Bora said.
 
  Bora told the upper court that despite being a "very busy person" the actor had attended trial proceedings whenever he was called in nearly 20 years, so there was no reason why he should not be released on bail again till his appeal against the conviction was decided. 
 
 "If the appeal against conviction is finally dismissed, the court can send him back to jail. But if he wins the appeal, who will be responsible for losses suffered on account of him being in jail for no fault," Bora reasoned before the judge.
 
 After hearing Salman’s appeal, district and sessions Judge Ravindra Kumar Joshi, who was transferred late on Friday night by the Rajasthan high court administration under a routine exercise, granted him relief.
 
 
