VADODARA: Come April 15 and commuters will be under the watchful eyes of the city police who will resume strict implementation of traffic rules in the city. 

 The CCTVs installed at several crossroads will again be monitoring the commuters and those found flouting the traffic rules will be fined. The drive that was intensified last year was stopped just before the state assembly polls after protests from commuters. 
 
 “The decision to resume the drive has been taken at the highest level in the government. Even the   has taken a serious view of this issue and asked the states to implement traffic rules strictly. So, we have decided to start the drive to penalize traffic offenders from April 15,” said Manoj  , city police commissioner. 
 
 “We are spreading awareness about it so that people have enough time to buy helmets. No excuses of not wearing helmets or seatbelts will be allowed now. Those driving on wrong side, jumping signal and flouting other rules will be penalized,” Sashidhar told TOI. Traffic department officials said that several meetings were held before deciding to initiate the drive again.
 
 “The entire system will be same. The e-challans will now be sent by post to the commuters caught flouting traffic rules. They will be able to pay the penalty online or at any branch of  ,” said Amita Vanani, ACP (traffic). The cops will initially focus only on the main roads where traffic flow is dense. 
 
 Images of the traffic offenders are caught on the CCTVs installed at the crossroads that delivers images of the person violating traffic rules along with his or her vehicle number plate to the central system in Police Bhavan that produces e-challans. The police are also planning to send SMS to traffic offenders stating the offence they committed and the amount they will have to pay. The SMS will also have a link that the person can click on to pay the money. The cops will get mobile numbers of the traffic offender through our VAHAN app.
 
 Also, a commuter will get only one e-challan per day for flouting the traffic rule unlike last year when traffic offenders used to get multiple e-challans in a day. Any commuter will be penalized for traffic offence three times and if caught the fourth time, his or her driving license will be cancelled. 
 
 Times View:
 
 The move to start issuing e-challans for flouting traffic rules is expected to instill driving discipline among citizens. While police would focus on penalizing wrongdoers, the civic body should also seriousl yconsider improving road designing at many places to prevent accidents in busy areas. The traffic police should be present at busy crossroads in peak hours. Apart from regular commuters, the police should focus on auto rickshaws that cause daily traffic snarls in areas with heavy traffic. 
 
 
