TRICHY: Parents of students at a government aided primary school at   block in   refused to send their children for the annual examination on Thursday citing the dilapidated condition of the school building. Following the incident, the school put off the exam to another date. 

 The aided school in   village which was started at the time of the Jawaharlal Nehru government was being run by a family for over 70 years now. The school gets aid from the state government only for five teachers and its maintenance. It has been functioning from a single tile-roofed building and is in dire need of renovation. While the present management gave up on the school, parents have been urging the state government to take over the school. Upset over the lack of any steps from the authorities, the parents staged a protest in front of the school and did not let their children inside on Thursday. 
 
 P Annavi, a village head, said that they had written to the school education department as well as the state government through the collector but no steps had been forthcoming in this regard forcing them to resort to protest. Vincent Soundararajan, the manager-cum-correspondent of the school, said that he had given up his right on the school in writing to the school education department citing his inability to run it. “It was my father I Yagappan who founded the school by getting recognition way back in 1952. After his death, my younger son was managing the school. But he too passed away in 2011 following which I was given the responsibility to run the school,” he said. 
 
 “But I am unable to run the school and had told the parents as well,” said Soundararajan who is based in Karaikudi. He added that despite his declaration, he had been held responsible for not running the school properly. When asked, Arulanandam, additional assistant elementary education officer, Karambakudi, said that the parents had been asked to represent to the government seeking a government school in their village. Converting the existing school could be a time-consuming affair, he said. 
 
 
