KOLKATA: Rising pollution, changing lifestyle, increased life expectancy, and tobacco and alcohol consumption are some of the leading factors pushing up the number of   cases every year. Despite better diagnostic facilities and improved treatment, detection in the later stages poses a threat to successful treatment. 

 “If detected early, 50% of cancer cases are curable. The problem arises once the cancer spreads to other parts of the body. Though awareness has increased over the years, it needs to seep in at every level. That is why regular check up, especially by those in the risk category, is necessary,” said Dr Shaikat Gupta, director of surgical oncology at Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals Kolkata. He was speaking at the ‘Outsmart Cancer’ campaign at the Merchant Chamber of Commerce Kolkata on Friday. The campaign, an initiative by the Times of India in association with Apollo Cancer Centre, is aimed at encouraging people to go for regular screening so that the disease is detected early.
 
 “Lung cancer is the leading form of cancer in men in Kolkata while for women, it is breast cancer. While nearly 50% of cancer mortality is preventable, treatment is difficult, expensive and unrewarding in later stages,” said Dr Arunabha Sengupta, secretary   who is also a surgical oncologist at Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals.
 
 Breast and oral cancer are easier to detect due to their prominent symptoms. However, the majority of cancer forms can creep in silently without causing any symptom, including persistent acidity, cough, sore throat, bleeding from any part of the body, altered bowel habits, abdomen pain or difficulty in swallowing 
 
 “If any such symptom persists for more than two weeks it is time for the patient to see a doctor and go for a screening,” added Gupta.
 
 Members of MCC, including few who are battling the disease, got their queries answered by doctors at Friday’s event. “The purpose of being a part of the campaign is to educate our members on the importance of cancer awareness, prevention and early detection,” said Arvind Agawral   Kolkata committee member.
 
  
  
 
 
