CHANDIGARH: Staying cautious this time, the Chandigarh police have chargesheeted   and Shailesh Kumar in trained graduate teacher (TGT) scam. The two have been booked under Sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property); 467 (forgery of valuable security); 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record); and 120 B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC.

 Earlier the main accused of JBT recruitment scam, Mithilesh Pandey (alias Sanjay Srivastav alias Guruji alias Master ji) and Shailesh Kumar, were granted bail by a Chandigarh district court as the police had failed to file a chargesheet against them within 90 days of their arrest.
 
 The accused sought default bail in their bail application. However, the police officials, this time, did not take any risk and filed the challan on time against the accused. 
 
 The 1,000-page chargesheet has 18 witnesses, including director school education of chandigarh administration and chief coordinator of the   Institute of Applied Management Science.
 
 Earlier, three accused — Shiv Bahadur Singh of Varanasi, Shailesh Kumar of   and Mithilesh of Lucknow — were arrested by a joint team of Punjab and Telengana police on May 17, 2017. They were brought on production warrants to Chandigarh in JBT teacher recruitment scam on July 7, 2017. As alleged, the accused had a track record of leaking question papers in different states.
 
 
 
 The teachers’ recruitment examination for which papers were leaked happened in 2015. The vigilance bureau (VB) officials explained that the examinations were conducted in the Panjab University and the question papers were printed in Delhi.
 
 In Delhi, agents of Guruji and two other men — Dinesh Yadav and   — were posted to facilitate the question  . Shiv, a government press employee, was the one to aid the gang by leaking papers. The question papers were sold between Rs 10 lakh and Rs 40 lakh.
 
 On July 29, 2016, Chandigarh police registered an FIR after it was alleged that question papers of selection tests for the recruitment of junior basic training (JBT), trained graduate teachers (TGTs) and nursery training teachers (NTTs) were leaked.
 
 The tests were held at the Panjab University. Earlier, it was the Punjab vigilance bureau that revealed the scam by arresting Dinesh Yadav. They had also written to Chandigarh education secretary and inspector general of police to register a case in this regard.
 
 In the FIR, the vigilane bureau (VB) had stated that at least 19 candidates had access to the leaked question paper. 
 
 The VB during an interrogation came to know that recruitment scam also involves jobs in local bodies department Punjab, and Guruji — the kingpin and master mind behind the scam — had collected over Rs 12 crore by doing this. The question papers in the recruitment cases were leaked by a gang from Lucknow and each paper was priced between Rs 10 lakh and Rs 40 lakh. 
 
 At first, after an FIR was registered, the government had cancelled the selection of assistant municipal corporation engineers, assistant municipal council engineers and sub-divisional engineers in the department of local government. 
 
 The government also blacklisted the PU from holding any selection test for Punjab during pendency of the investigation.
 
