The first quirky promo of debutant director Akshat Verma’s ' ', a dark comedy that weaves in three stories that unfold on a single night, was well appreciated. While the audience waits for this ek raat ki dastaan to unfurl, here’s what the team behind the project thinks about it:

 
 
 
 “I liked the script, which has an entertaining take on Mumbai. It offers an exciting story with a good arch for the lead actor. I play this man, who after finding out that he has stomach cancer, consumes ‘acid’ and has the time of his life. By the end of the film, his character undergoes a change. As an actor, it was interesting to see small cameras shoot at real locations in Bandra and other parts of the city.”
 
 
 
 
 “My character is similar to who I am in real life. I play a South Mumbai girl, who is on the threshold of getting married. She is full of life and head over heels in love with her fiancé, played by  . The role is funny, but not in your face. Akshat (Verma, director) has written the story with a heavy dose of humour and realism. Though mine is a special appearance, I loved the narrative.” 
 
 
 
 “I play Rakhi, a photographer who is a bindaas Mumbai girl. She follows her instinct and is all-heart, pretty much the way I am. Rakhi seemed like a fun character to play and also, the film gave me a chance to work with someone as talented as Saif Ali Khan. Delhi Belly is one of most entertaining coming-of-age films that we’ve seen. Considering the fact that this film is being helmed by Akshat, who has penned Delhi Belly, I couldn’t have turned down this offer.”
 
 
 
 
 “After reading the script, I told Akshat that I have to be a part of this film, regardless of the role. I play Zubin, who is in love with a girl way out of his league.”
 
 
 
 
 “I chose this film because my character — of a street queen — is interesting and glamorous. My track plays out with Saif Ali Khan and that is a big achievement for me. Working with Akshat felt like working with a friend — he would never say ‘No’ to us and was always helpful.” 
 
 
 
 
 “I play a character called Vaaris and   plays my companion, Amjad. We chose the film because Kaalakaandi is an island which has mischievous people like us. We found a suitable place for ourselves there.”
 
 
 
 “For me, Kaalakaandi is a situation where everything turns upside down. I produced the film because I loved the script and wanted to work with Akshat.”
 
 
 
 
 “It often happens that you have multiple stories in your head, and some pop up and take precedence over the others. That’s what happened here. It was a story that had been with me for the longest time — there were a few scenes that I was interested in. I started developing them and then, a compelling story took over.” 
 
 
  
 
