BENGALURU: The death toll in Thursday’s building collpase at Jayarama Reddy Layout, southeast Bengaluru, touched four on Friday. One of the two workers pulled out of the debris earlier in the morning succumbed to injuries, while the body of another worker was found in the rubble later in the night.

 Rescue workers scoured through the collapsed structure for at least two more men suspected to be trapped under the debris.
 
 
 Two men had died in the accident till Thursday night, police said.  , 25, a carpenter from  , died on Friday morning, hours after he was rescued, while the body of a fourth labourer was found later in the night.
 
 Based on a complaint filed by Chinnaraju, a mason who was working at the accident site and was injured, Bellandur police booked a criminal case against a couple owning the property, the building contractor and a BBMP assistant engineer.
 
 After registering the FIR, police arrested Sameera, who jointly owned the property with husband Rafiq, and  , assistant engineer, BBMP, Mahadevapura zone. Additional commissioner of police, Seemanth Kumar Singh told TOI the accused have been booked under IPC Sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and 338 (causing grievous hurt). “We have formed a special team to nab prime accused Rafiq and contractor Krishnakant Reddy, who are at large,” said  , deputy commissioner of police ( ).
 
 Rescue work by fire brigade, National Disaster Response Force and Civil Defence Force personnel was on through Thursday night. Around 2am on Friday,  , a painter from  , was pulled out from the debris. At 8.45am, rescue workers managed to reach Hazrat. Assisted by sniffer dogs, workers scoured through the debris till late Friday night. Around 10pm, one more body was found. DCP (Whitefield) Abdul Ahad said the body was that of Raja Sab, 35, suspected to have died on Thursday owing to a confusion.
 
 Raja Sab’s wife,  , survived as she was pushed to the terrace of an adjacent building during the collapse.
 
 A senior police officer said there was some confusion about the number of the deaths on Thursday night. “According to claims made by the families, we said three persons died on Thursday. The same was announced by the mayor. Jurisdictional police too, on Thursday midnight, confirmed that three men had died. In an official release, police named Sher Ahmad, Anwar Ansari and Raju alias Raja Sab as the victims. But the names did not match with the death memo issued by the hospital authority on Friday. On crosschecking, we found that two men had died on Thursday, while two others died on Friday,” BBMP sources said.
 
 According to police, substandard material used in the construction might have led to the building collapse. “Police said there were 22 workers present during the accident. Four died, three have escaped unhurt and 13 have been rescued. So, the remaining two might be under debris,” said BBMP sources.
 
