GHAZIABAD: In a 12-hour-long drive aimed at nabbing wanted criminals and those having non-bailable warrants from courts, the police arrested 182 persons in   on Saturday. The drive, code named  , was launched in the district at 8am on Saturday.

 Out of the 182 arrested, 81 were wanted in heinous crimes like murder and rape registered in various police stations. The remaining 101 had non-bailable warrants pending against them, said an officer.
 
 “We had prepared a list of 270 people who have been evading arrest in the district. During the crackdown which lasted 12 hours on Saturday, 24 other accused surrendered on their own in local courts. Twelve of them were wanted in cases of heinous crimes while the rest had non-bailable warrants against them. The operation, which is aimed at flushing out criminals and boosting the morale of the police, will continue,” said SSP Vaibhav Krishna.
 
 Of the arrested criminals, four were wanted in cases of murder while seven were wanted in rape cases. Eight criminals were accused in cases of kidnap while three were named in loot cases. Ten criminals were named as accused in cases registered under the Gangsters Act.
 
 The operation was undertaken across all 15 police stations of the district, out of which eight are located in the city and the remaining seven in the rural, said the SSP.
 
 “Apart from arresting the criminals, our teams have made huge recoveries of illicit liquor, cannabis and stolen vehicles during the crackdown. Nearly 218 litres of illicit liquor was seized apart from nine country-made pistols, cartridges and mobile phones,” said Krishna.
 
 Late on Saturday night, police had arrested a wanted criminal, Rahul (25), after a gunfight near Balmukand Residency in Raj Nagar Extension. After scanning the criminal records of Rahul, the police had found that he had robbed several journalists in Raj Nagar Extension in the past while they were on their way home late at night. They found that he has 23 criminal cases pending against him. Most of these cases are filed in police stations of western UP including Ghaziabad and pertain to incidents of loot and attempt to murder.
 
 
