AHMEDABAD: BJP candidate   has alleged that what was seen as the Congress party's desperate attempt at protecting its flock before the   elections last August, was but an instance of Congress leader Ahmed Patel indulging in corrupt practices. 

 In his election petition challenging Patel's victory in Rajya Sabha before the Gujarat high court, Rajput alleged that the act of flying 44 MLAs to a resort in Bengaluru, holding them in captivity at a resort, spending Rs 80 lakh on their entertainment, not allowing them to contact their family members for a week and then inducing them to vote for Patel, is a corrupt practice according to Section 123 of the Representation of the People Act.
 
 Contending that Patel indulged in corrupt practices, Rajput has sought his disqualification from the election and thus the invalidation of his election.
 
 Appearing for Patel, senior advocate Kapil Sibal strongly opposed Rajput's contentions by his submissions before Justice   on Friday. He submitted that Rajput did not provide specific details to constitute the allegations. In the absence of the proper facts about corrupt practices, it is difficult to deal with general allegations.
 
 Sibal argued that since an election petition is distinct from a writ petition or a suit due to it involving the election of a whole constituency, no leniency can be shown for corrupt practices. However, this has a quasi-criminal character and specific allegations are required about the incident and documents and evidence needs to be provided so the person charged can defend himself.
 
 In Rajput's contention, there is no basic facts and he has also not come forward with full disclosure. There is no full vilification also. The source of information is not disclosed. Rajput has alleged that Congress leader   managed the show, but he has not provided any evidence that Gohil was active at the behest of Patel, advocate Sibal submitted.
 
 After Sibal completed his arguments, the court has posted a hearing for April 11, when Rajput's lawyer will argue his case further.
 
 Meanwhile, after Patel's arguments, the HC last month ordered Rajput to remove the Election Commission as a party respondent in the litigation.
 
 
