CHENNAI: The   (IB) has asked its field units to be “more careful” and “very discreet” while dealing with matters related to the Vishwa Hindu Parishad,   and non-Sangh Hindu organisations.

 “In the aftermath of developments relating to  , the units are requested to be more careful while dealing with matters related to VHP/BD and non-Sangh Hindu organisation/outfits. Any inquiries related to these organisations shall be conducted in a very discreet manner,” said the letter circulated by the IB to its field operatives.
 
 The circular comes about seven mo nths after   international working president Pravin Togadia’s scathing letter to the IB director demanding an apology for the “abrupt, snoopy and sudden questioning and investigation of volunteers of Hindu Help Line and India Health Line in many parts of India”. Togadia had hit the headlines last month when he had said he feared for his life.
 
 In a letter dated June 29, 2017, Togadia took exception to inquiries held with volunteers of the two helplines: “The Central IB has chosen to conspicuously question local-level volunteers, mentioning some letter by the joint director of Central IB’s ordering to do so. This is horrible and resembles Emergency time.”
 
 
 
 
 It said: “We demand an immediate apology from the Central IB and from the ministry under which it works… Obviously, the Central IB would not work on such a snoopy job against nationalist organisations like VHP, India Health Line and Hindu Help Line, etc. unless directed by those whom it reports to. We have a right to know at whose behest such insidious investigations are being carried out.”
 
 Togadia’s letter demanded the withdrawal of the letter by the IB joint director within 24 hours. “The Union government should initiate an immediate inquiry into such an antinational order against the VHP, India Health Line and Hindu Help Line,” it said.
 
 Togadia said that when thousands of farmers were committing suicide, when students remained unemployed, and when cross-border infiltrations from Pakistan and China were causing the deaths of India’s soldiers, the Central IB had been “targeting nationalist organisations and people like us”.
 
 He said that though his telephone numbers were available with the IB, the central agency chose not to contact him directly but “surreptitiously ask snoopy questions of our volunteers at the ground level”.
 
 
