MOHALI: The municipal corporation (MC) has never conducted a   of   and does not have any record of   measures taken by owners.

 Taking cognizance of recent fire incidents, MC commissioner   has marked an inquiry to chief fire officer (CFO) and joint commissioner Avneet Kaur to get the fire audit conducted of commercial, industrial and even residential buildings in the city.
 
 Hans said, “During the recent fire at the basement of an electronics warehouse in Phase VII market on May 3, it was observed that the building did not have a no objection certificate related to fire safety norms and firefighting equipment. We then learnt that the MC has never got fire audit conducted. I have now marked an inquiry.”
 
 Hans said the chief fire officer has also been instructed to get dangerous and offensive (DOT) trade licences checked. He said, “I have been told that there are very few traders who have procured DOT licences. I have directed the officer to find out the number of traders who have not procured the DOT licences. Notices will be sent and action taken.”
 
 He said according to the DOT gazette notification of 2007, apart from paints, varnishes and petroleum products storage, traders selling and storing furniture, tobacco, electronic goods, paper, thermocol, vegetable oils, books, silk clothes, printing press and bakery items are required to procure DOT licences.
 
 The Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (Gmada), government press, civil hospital, Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) and Government College, Phase VI, have not taken fire NOC from the MC, according to records.
 
 Hans said, “It seems the departments have not drawn any lessons from Mumbai and Ludhiana fire incidents. They are being forced to get the fire NOCs. Special instructions have been issued to chief fire officer to take stern action against such violators.”
 
 Chief fire officer Avneet Kaur said, “We have been sending notices to violators but they have not bothered to apply for NOC. In 2017, we issued around 230 notices after which over 644 NOCs were issued by the MC.”
 
 Kaur said eight to ten industries, five to six hotels and around SCFs are some of the premises which have neither got fire safety equipment nor attained NOC from the department.
 
 On the other hand, a senior officer in GMADA said, “We have our internal firefighting system and a separate department to check anomalies. We need not take the fire NOC from the MC.”
 
 The municipal corporation has failed to construct an additional fire station in Mohali despite the lone fire station at Phase I failing to cater to distant sectors. A demand was also raised to set up a sub fire station in Kharar and Mullanpur, which are also catered by the fire station in phase I.
 
 The MC had planned to set up two fire station in Sector 65 (phase XI) and Sector 78. The plans were mooted three years ago.
 
 According to a study conducted by experts from Panjab University, the average travel time for a fire tender from Phase I fire station to Sector 78 is 20 to 25 minutes and to Kharar 25 to 35 minutes. Similarly, a fire tender takes an average of 35 to 40 minutes to reach Mullanpur.
 
 
 
 
