THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In an attempt to ensure a proper space for child survivors of rape and human trafficking, the state government is planning to set up five more   shelter homes in the state apart from improving the existing ones. The government also promises to ensure women and child development centres (WCDC) which will function at Nirbhaya homes and to extend the one-stop crisis management cells (OCMCs). Currently, the homes are crammed for space with more inmates than the permitted capacity and there are no Nirbhaya homes in five districts.

 The government has decided to set up five Nirbhaya homes, one each in Thrissur, Kottayam, Pathanamthitta, Kannur and Alapuzha districts, an official attached to the social justice department ( ) said. “These districts have no Nirbhaya homes, so the affected from these districts are brought to the shelter homes in the nearby districts. The accommodation capacity of each Nirbhaya home is 25, which means the total number of inmates in eight homes should be 200. But more than 300 survivors are accommodated in the eight homes run by   now,” the official said.
 
  
  
 
 Social justice minister   had directed to ensure that the victims of abuse receive the required health care, counselling support, food, education with adequate space for their development. “Based on the minister’s directive, it has been planned to strengthen the Nirbhaya homes with women and child development centres (WCDCs) for abuse victims, ensuring effective functioning of OCMCs,” SJD secretary Biju Prabhakar said.
 
 “At present, there are seven girls who are in various stages of pregnancy at Nirbhaya homes, they will be provided health care with counselling support, 24-hour nurse, medical support having tie-up with hospital, ambulance service and post-delivery care through the WCDCs,” he said.
 
 The new state coordinator of Nirbhaya cell R   said that more Nirbhaya homes were in the pipeline to ensure the rehabilitation and care of the survivors. They will function on rented space but with proper protection, she added.
 
 Now, 11 Nirbhaya homes, eight run by   Mahila Samakhya Society and three by other agencies, are functioning in the state with 360 inmates. Kerala Mahila Samakhya Society will be entrusted with the task of running the five new homes.
 
