PATIALA: A special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court, Mohali, on Wednesday extended the period for filing a charge-sheet against five accused in the targeted killings cases of Punjab by another 90 days. The   also filed additional pleas before the court for extending the period to file charge-sheets in three other cases. The agency had registered seven cases in connection with the killings that took place over the last two years.

 On February 8, the NIA moved three applications before the court, seeking 90-day extension for filing the chargesheet against five accused, including UK nationals   Johal and Taljit Singh, sharpshooter  , his accomplice Ramandeep Singh, and weapon supplier Dharminder Singh Guggni. It had registered three cases against them to investigate the killings of RSS leader Ravinder Gosain, pastor Sultan Masih and Hindu outfit leader Amit Sharma.
 
 
  
 
 Initially, Punjab Police had registered separate cases in these killings. After the investigations were handed over to the NIA, it had registered corresponding cases at its headquarters in New Delhi in November and December, 2017. 
 
 In its plea, the NIA had submitted that more time was needed to gather evidence against the accused as the investigations were spread across Pakistan, UK and Italy. It had stated that the offences had inter-state and international ramifications, including suspected involvement of some terror groups, and given the scope of the conspiracy in terms of number of people involved and their geographical spread, the probe could not be completed within 90 days. The NIA also pleaded that the voluminous data had been retrieved from the mobile phones and other electronic devices of the accused and it needed more time to verify it.
 
 Meanwhile, the contentions put up by defence counsel Brijinder Singh Sodhi and Jaspal Manjhpur were turned down by the court as it granted the extension. The defence had claimed that instead of seeking a 90-day extension for filing of the charge-sheet, the NIA could have filed a ‘partial charge-sheet’ before the court and supplement it with additional details and charges as its investigations progressed. The counsel said NIA’s failure in filing a partial charge-sheet consolidated the stance taken by them that the agency could not find anything against their clients.
 
 After the grant of the extension, the NIA moved three more applications, seeking that the time for filing of a charge-sheet against the other accused in the pastor Masih case, along with those booked for the killing of   leader Durga Das Gupta and Dera Sacha Sauda followers Satpal Sharma and his son Ramesh, may also be extended for the same reason as had been mentioned in the applications filed on February 8. The court admitted the application and fixed March 5 as the next date of hearing.
 
 
