LUCKNOW: The resident doctors of King George's   ( ) on Tuesday blamed the administration for creating a hostile environment and too much pressure on junior doctors. 

 Taking note of a suicide attempt by a junior resident who was admitted to Trauma Centre on Monday, the Resident Doctors' Association (RDA) convened a meeting on Tuesday evening and sent a letter to KGMU administration, stating that the harassment of junior doctors is leading to increase in suicidal tendencies and psychiatric illness among them.
 
 Junior Resident (JR)-I in orthopaedic department, Vivek Kumar, was on Monday morning found having slit his wrist in his   room and was rushed to Trauma Centre. A suicide note was found in the room in which Vivek had blamed his mental illness. 
 
 "My mental illness is not getting any better, and is the reason for my suicide attempt. Mummy, papa, didi, Chintu, Golu, forgive me," read the note signed by Vivek. 
 
 Vivek was being treated for grave depression at KGMU's psychiatry department. "He had undergone therapy and medication at a private set up in recent months, which had not been helpful. We had been trying to motivate him, and results had started to show, but his threshold to bear stress was perhaps lower than his peers who too work under same conditions and set up," said a faculty member. 
 
 Blaming the work culture at KGMU for Vivek's depression and suicide bid, RDA general secretary Dr Neeraj Mishra said, "The irrational working environment, deficiencies in system and shortage of staff should be met immediately. This will help in creating a healthy environment for all. Today it was Vivek, tomorrow it could be any of us, as we are all working for long hours under immense stress." 
 
  KGMU chief proctor, Prof RAS Kushwaha said, "The action required in Vivek's case was providing him treatment for his depression, which was being done. Neither his family nor he himself has complained against anyone or blamed anyone for his step. If there is any complaint, we shall pursue it." Vivek survived because a tendon of his wrist got cut when he slashed them. 
 
 
