NEW DELHI: Giving in to a long-standing demand by the  , the Centre is working on a proposal to grant infrastructure status to hotel projects worth Rs 50 crore and more. The move, aimed at encouraging small and mid-segment hotel projects in the country, will provide easier access to long-term funding and lower interest rates for hotel projects over Rs 50 crore.

 
 Sources told TOI the tourism ministry has already finalised a proposal to this effect and is now awaiting   clearance. In addition to the direct benefits to the hotel segment, the move is also expected to give a leg up to revenue generation in the tourism sector.
 
 In July 2014, the department of economic affairs under the ministry of finance had notified a ‘Harmonised Master List of Infrastructure Sub-sectors’ in which it had put the hotel industry in the category of “Social and Commercial Infrastructure”.
 
 The harmonised list, however, considered only those hotel projects that were worth over Rs 200 crore, excluding the costs of land and lease charges, but including interest during construction.
 
 Hospitality segment lobby group Federation of Hotels and Restaurants Association of India ( ) had sent a memorandum to the government ahead of the 2018 budget seeking infrastructure and industry status for all hotel projects worth Rs 25 crore and more. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, FHRAI president Garish Oberoi, said, “Tourism industry wants this so that hotel projects can get subsidies and long-term funding. To promote budget and mid-segment travel in tier II and III cities, it is imperative that smaller hotel projects are incentivised.”
 
 Oberoi also said nearly 25% of the hotel projects that began in the last 5 to 10 years have suffered losses and have been declared nonperforming assets by banks in the post-demonetisation and   period.
 
 While FHRAI had also demanded lowering of tax rates and a uniform tax slab for all categories of hotels, sources in the government said it was not, as yet, clear whether the demand would be considered. When contacted, tourism minister   said, “Already, with my ministry’s intervention, the government has reduced taxes on restaurants to 5%. We will keep trying for the other segments as well.”
 
 At present, taxes on hotels are divided into four categories — 0%,12%, 18% and 28% — based on the declared tariff of rooms.
 
