BENGALURU: With expansion work of Byappanahalli railway station’s platform nos. 1 and 2 expected to be completed by June-end, long-distance trains will soon halt there.

 At present, only trains with a maximum of 19 coaches stop at Byappanahalli because of its short platforms. “At present, passenger trains halt at Byappanahalli station. Once the platforms are expanded, express and superfast trains with 24 coaches will also have a stoppage. Work is progressing at a steady pace,” said a senior   (SWR) official.
 
 The stoppage of long-distance trains at Byappanahalli is expected to help thousands of passengers across the city because of its Metro connectivity as they don’t have to go all the way to   to board or alight long-distance trains.
 
 Officials said two Ernakulam-bound trains — Banaswadi-Ernakulam Bi-weekly Express and  , which recently shifted from KSR City Railway Station to Banaswadi — will first halt at the station. SWR is also likely to provide stoppages for Bengaluru-Chennai Superfast Express, Bangarpet-Bengaluru Express, Lalbagh Express, Sanghamitra Superfast Express and Tirupati-Bengaluru Tri-weekly Express.
 
 Krishna Prasad, member of Karnataka Railway Vedike, an NGO campaigning for better train services, said: “Expansion of platforms at Byappanahalli station is a long-pending demand. Footfall in the station has increased over the years and long platforms will help the railways provide stoppages for express and superfast trains with 24 coaches.”
 
 Work to construct a third coaching terminal at Byappanahalli, some 3km away from the railway station, is also progressing. The city has two coaching terminals now — KSR City railway station and Yeshwantpur. The new one is expected to help the railways operate additional trains that can commence and terminate at Byappanahalli.
 
 Railway minister Piyush Goyal recently said they will launch the first phase of the coaching terminal at Byappanahalli with three platforms and four pit lines by this December.
 
 
