NAGPUR: After coming under fire from the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court for failure to complete enquiry into alleged scams in four irrigation projects, the State Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) has finally lodged a police complaint against senior officials of  , Maharashtra Jivan Pradhikaran (MJP), Water Resources Department ( ), and Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation (VIDC) in the Jigaon project. This was revealed through an affidavit filed before the HC on Wednesday.

 A division bench comprising justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Swapna Joshi then adjourned the hearing till January 31 after petitioner’s counsel Shridhar Purohit sought time to reply to the ACB affidavit.
 
 The FIR was lodged on November 3 last year against eight persons, including Sumit Bajoriya, director of the company owned by ex-NCP MLC from Yavatmal Sandeep Bajoriya, who is considered a close aide of former deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, who was also personally named in the PIL for misappropriation in four projects. These projects included Jigaon in Buldhana, Lower Pedhi in Amravati, Raigad Barrage near Chandur Railway, and Waghadi in Yavatmal.
 
 The PIL claimed that contracts for these projects were awarded to   Construction Company at the behest of Pawar, who headed the irrigation department during the Congress-NCP regime.
 
 Another affidavit filed by WRD deputy secretary Malikaarjun Dharne informed that the ACB was conducting an open enquiry into 38 irrigation projects coming under VIDC’s jurisdiction and Lower Pedhi was one among them. On awarding tenders to Bajoriya’s firm for Raigad Barrage and Waghadi projects, he clarified that superintendent engineer of WRD’s vigilance unit in Amravati region was directed to conduct an enquiry. Accordingly, the reports were submitted to the government on October 1 and 9, which are being scrutinized.
 
 The ACB’s affidavit regarding Jigaon, submitted by ACB’s deputy superintendent Shailesh Jadhav, informed that offences were registered against all eight accused at   police station on November 3, after completion of an open enquiry. They were booked under various sections of IPC along with sections of Prevention of Corruption Act.
 
 He said the investigations were completed with regards to statements of witnesses, interrogation of accused, searching their homes, and obtaining their signatures and handwriting samples. Allegedly forged papers and other documents were also seized from them while pre-qualification tenders and related documents were obtained from the irrigation department’s office.
 
 Defending the time taken for investigations, Jadhav said the open enquiry process of Jigaon project was very complex and various aspects were required to be carefully examined and scrutinized. From May 21, 2015, to November 3 last year, the enquiry officer carefully examined and scrutinized a large number of documents. Based on that, the responsibilities were fixed on officials. The final report was submitted to ACB director on March 17, 2017, after which the entire material was rescrutinized. He assured that further probe would be done diligently and taken to its logical conclusion.
 
 7 govt officials named in FIR
 
 The seven government officials named in the Jigaon FIR include MJP executive engineer in Chandrapur Sanjay Wagh, WRD director and chief engineer in Amravati MV Patil, VIDC chief engineer in   SR Suryavanshi, superintending engineer in Buldhana irrigation projects Sharad Gawande, superintending engineer BS Vavare, superintending engineer (PH) at Central Sankalpchitra Organisation in Nashik Bhimashankar Puri, and executive engineer at MUN project division in Khamgaon RG Mundhada.
 
 
