GURUGRAM: The proposed   of the   toll plaza on NH8, for which land has been identified beyond Manesar in Sehrawan, is beginning to look increasingly uncertain.

 Voices within the government and outside have started questioning the economic justification behind the relocation, given that when built in 2008, he toll was expected to fold up by 2023. By that time the expressway concessionaire’s agreement will also expire, meaning five more years are left to collect toll. In such a scenario, questions are being asked if the huge cost of relocation is justifiable. 
 
 The concessionaire — Millennium City Expressway Private Limited (MCEPL) — has also now requested four additional lanes to be built at the existing toll plaza to ease congestion, adding to uncertainty around the relocation. The   (NHAI) has also expressed its support for building more lanes. Ashok Sharma, project director,   (Gurugram), said, “This will be possible by acquiring adjoining land on rent. I’m working on it.”
 
 On December 15, 2017, MCEPL had distributed 20 hand-held machines to toll collectors to ease congestion at the plaza. S Raghuraman, chief executive officer (CEO) of MCEPL, said, “We’ve asked for more lanes at the plaza. We regularly experience huge congestion on both Gurugram and Jaipur carriageways during peak hours. Additional lanes will help reduce that. We’ll construct the new lanes within 90 days of NHAI giving us land. We need to collect toll till 2023, as we haven’t yet recovered the full financial liability of Rs 1,080 crore from toll collections.”
 
 On December 26, the Haryana government had promised 63 acres of land in Sehrawan to NHAI as for the relocation of the toll plaza, a long-standing demand of local residents and entrepreneurs in Manesar. But that site itself has become uncertain because of environmental concerns about the area being a wildlife corridor.
 
 Ram Avtar, environmentalist and former sarpanch of Manesar, said, “The toll plaza shouldn’t be moved to Manesar. It’s up to the authorities to decide if additional lanes are needed or not.” He has asked NHAI to look into reasons why they want the toll plaza relocated to Sehrawan, which is hardly 11km from Kherki Daula. “There is massive mismanagement at this plaza. Even emergency vehicles find it difficult to cross it without a glitch,” added Avtar.
 
 The state government faces elections next year and the toll plaza relocation is an issue that is bound to be raised in the build-up. Rahul Singla, director of real estate major  , said, “Increasing the number of lanes will help commuters of Manesar and New Gurugram. But relocating the toll from Kherki Daula is more important, as it’s a big hurdle for commuters, causing massive jams.”
 
 Anupam Varshney, head (sales and marketing) of Vatika, said, “Relocating the toll from Kherki Daula is important for further growth and development of new Gurugram sectors and Manesar. Increasing the number of lanes suggests a delay in that.”
 
 NHAI is also planning a cloverleaf interchange near the Kherki Daula toll plaza, to connect NH-8 with Southern Peripheral Road (SPR) and Dwarka Expressway. Its tender has been issued, and is expected to take around a year to construct. With the cloverleaf, NHAI expects traffic at Kherki Daula toll to greatly reduce, as it will provide an alternative route to reach Delhi via the Dwarka Expressway.
 
 “There’s a plan to build a cloverleaf to ease traffic flow. Instructions to remove bottlenecks have been issued. Once built, we expect the cloverleaf to improve Gurugram’s traffic system,” said V Umashankar, CEO, GMDA.
 
 
