NAGPUR: In a ray of hope for the 30-week pregnant rape survivor, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday directed the Maharashtra government to constitute a special medical board comprising experts to suggest whether to abort the foetus.

 A division bench comprising justices   and   directed the government to set up the board by 10am on Wednesday. Led by   (IGGMC) dean Anuradha Shrikhande, it will have experts from departments of gynaecology, obstetrics, paediatrics, radiology/sonology, cardiology, pulmonology, neurology, genetics, pathology, and administration.
 
 The petitioner was told to appear before it by 11am on Wednesday and the board was asked the submit report before 2.30pm. On the basis of the medical report, the HC will decide on survivor’s prayers to terminate pregnancy as per the ‘Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) Act, 1971’.
 
 She was present during the court proceedings, along with her mother, brother and child.
 
 Quoting the MTP Act, the survivor knocked the judiciary’s doors last week for terminating her pregnancy. The mother of two from Buldhana prayed for directives to the Khamgaon General Hospital for terminating her pregnancy.
 
 While issuing notices to the Centre and state, the HC had sternly directed their respective counsels — Mughdha Chandurkar and additional government pleader Sagar Ashirgade — to reply by Tuesday, considering the urgency of her plea.
 
 “Taking into consideration the petitioner’s pregnancy that is beyond permissible limits of 20 weeks and the law laid down in the Supreme Court in various matters, we requested the government pleader (GP) to inform on directives of   about constitution of medical board to examine her,” the judges said.
 
 They added that the board was told to submit the report with experts opinion on whether it will be medically viable to permit the termination of pregnancy.
 
 Earlier, GP Sumant Deopujari informed that the IGGMC dean had instructed him to make a statement that the report will be produced before the HC in the backdrop of the urgency narrated. While lauding the GP for rendering assistance in the case, the judges directed experts from the board to remain present at 2.30pm on Wednesday to assist the court.
 
 “The petitioner’s case is that she is a victim of rape which took place on September 22. In support of her contention, she filed a copy of the FIR. According to the petitioner, she does not intend to give birth to the child conceived out of the offence of rape as it would continue her trauma and the child will also have to suffer socially. The petitioner’s counsel conceded to make her appear before the board as suggested by the GP,” the judges said.
 
 The 32-year-old woman, working as housemaid, had requested for a lawyer through HC’s   to plead her case. Accordingly, SH Bhatia was assigned to her. She has already separated from her husband due to mental and physical cruelty meted out to her and now staying with her mother and brother.
 
 The woman said she can’t bear the third child as she was already dependent on her brother and has two kids to look after.
 
 
