She is all of 25, but nothing can shake Veda Krishnamurthy’s confidence. Unlike most women her age, she is comfortable in her own skin and is not one who seeks to please others. From a tender age, she has decided her destiny, with her parents firmly by her side. Being one of the shining stars of the Indian women’s   team, she tells us why confidence in yourself, and not physical strength, is what you need when taking someone on.

 
 
 Yes, definitely. We have been working very hard on the field and we put in as much effort as the men do. This generation of cricketers has been lucky, because people want to watch us play. Parallelly, the game has also evolved a lot; now, it is more about power hitting in women’s cricket as well. Three years ago, it was about class, timing and technique, but now, it’s about how quickly you can score runs. That’s an added reason why people want to watch us. At the end of the day, when people watch the game, they want to be entertained.
 
 
 
 The situation isn’t very good in rural areas. Women in Bengaluru, Mumbai or Delhi have access to a lot of things. Also, because we are exposed to a lot of things in the city, our mentality changes, even if you don’t try to do so. Having said that, things are changing in villages and rural areas, but it will take time. There will be no drastic changes and people won’t suddenly start looking at women differently. When I go back to Kadur, things are different and people see me in a new light. If I have been some kind of motivation for girls to take up sports or do something other than study or get married, then that will be a huge confidence boost for me to go out and work harder.
 
 
 
 When I go to Kadur now, I am swarmed by people. Everyone wants to meet me and talk to me. When my parents see this, they are happier than I am. That is because they are the ones who faced hardships. I don’t know if people ever questioned my parents about letting me stay away from home and play cricket, because my parents never told me about the adversities. People do come and tell me that their daughter wants to be like me. If I am a motivation, there couldn’t be anything better.
 
 
 
 I’ve been lucky, because I have not had either parent telling me what I have to do. From a young age, I was brought up like a second son (I have two sisters and a brother). My parents have always encouraged me to do whatever I want. When I said I want to play cricket, they both supported me equally. They told me to take the decisions and that they would back it. So, I have been the decision maker from a young age. My elder sister and brother moved to Bengaluru for me, and were like my parents. At every phase in my life, I have had the right people around me, who have accepted me as I am. I am really fortunate to have them in my life.
 
 
 
 I have never felt the need for that, because the way they play cricket and the way we do is completely different — the angles of the game are completely different. When it comes to techniques, the coaches are knowledgeable. And once you’ve played for long, you know what you have to do. Once you are sure of what you know, you don’t have to seek answers elsewhere.
 
 
 
 Being in a small town, there were hardly any girls of my age and weight category, so I used to practice karate with boys. Since I fought well, I was confident about taking on boys anywhere. It’s not about hitting someone, it’s about how confident you feel. If your body language exudes confidence, then even if you don’t have the strength, you can take on anyone. Girls have to have confidence in themselves and what they do; they shouldn’t worry about what people around them think and say. It’s your life and you need to be the one who takes control over it.
 
 
 
 I don’t care about what I am wearing, and I’ve always been that way. Most of the times, even if I am going out, I am in track pants, a T-shirt and chappals. I go that way to malls and restaurants as well. All that matters to me is that I am comfortable. I’ve always dressed for myself. I never feel any pressure to look a certain way.
 
