BENGALURU: Six people, including four children, died and several others suffered injuries in rain-related incidents as   continued to lash many parts of   on Sunday. 

 
  Three boys - Vasant, 14, Chirant, 15, and Ajeya, 11, from Tammadihalli in   district - drowned in an overflowing Jangli lake. Police said the trio had gone for a swim around 1pm without the knowledge of their parents, who were away at a wedding. The incident came to light when the children's bodies bobbed up to the surface. 
 
  In another incident in Shivamogga, a woman and her daughter were washed away in Tunga river near   late Saturday . 
 
 
 
 
 Police said Chandrakumari, 37, her husband Narayan, children Vikas and Sandhya had come to Mahishi to visit Uttaradi mutt. While they were washing their feet in the river, Chandrakumari slipped into the waters. Sandhya jumped in to rescue her mother, and both drowned. The body of Sandhya was fished out within hours, and that of Chandrakumari on Sunday morning.
 
 In Dakshina Kannada, Kaushik, 8, son of Vadappa Gowda and Yashodha, from Bandaru village of Belthangady taluk, drowned in a stream that was overflowing on Saturday evening. South-interior Karnataka districts — Mysuru, Madikeri, Mandya, Chamarajanagar, Hassan and Chikkamagaluru — too received heavy rain on Sunday. Many low-lying areas in Mysuru, Hubballi-Dharwad, Kalaburagi, Belagavi and Tumakuru were flooded.
 
 Hundreds of trees and electric poles were uprooted and several roads were inundated in many places across the state, hampering traffic and power supply. A 54-foot-tall statue of Veerashaiva Samaj founder Renukacharya atop a hill at Ratkal village in Kalaburagi, collapsed due to gusty winds. In Kalaburagi town, two persons sustained serious injuries when a tree fell on them.
 
 In Gundlupet taluk of Chamarajanagar district, onion crop grown in hundreds of acres has been destroyed in rain. Crops grown in hundreds of acres have been damaged after Nayakanahalli tank in KR Pete taluk in neighbouring Mandya district breached on Saturday night. Villagers said the breach occurred due to substandard bund work and demanded action against contractors and officers.
 
 Eight passengers were rescued from a KSRTC bus that was stuck on an overflowing bridge near Chulakivillage in Belagavi district.
 
 Chief minister HD Kumaraswamy has asked officials to visit affected areas to launch relief work and also sought a report by Monday from the chief secretary.
 
 Dharwad district, which recorded 32mm rainfall in the first two days of June, is witnessing sowing activities. The above-average rainfall has resulted in a steady increase in water storage in all major reservoirs in Karnataka.
 
 
 
