NEW DELHI: Brushing aside the insistence of some   judges as well as the opposition, the government justified on Thursday its decision not to accept the  's recommendation to elevate Uttarakhand HC Chief Justice K M Joseph to the apex court, and requested the Chief Justice of India to reconsider the decision.

 
 "The proposed appointment of Justice Joseph at this stage does not appear to be appropriate as he is placed at serial number 42 in the all India high court judges' seniority list," a source quoted law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad as writing to CJI Dipak Misra amid charges that the government was settling scores with the judge for striking down the Modi government's decision to impose President's rule in Uttarakhand in 2016.
 
 The charge, first made when the government did not notify the two choices of the collegium — Justice Joseph and senior advocate Indu Malhotra — flared up again on Thursday when the Centre cleared the latter's name, leading Congress functionary P Chidambaram to suggest that the Uttarakhand HC chief justice's faith proved to be the stumbling block.
 
 However, in his communication to the CJI, the law minister cited, besides the seniority issue, the over-representation of Kerala HC, the parent high court of Justice Joseph, as another important consideration. Sources said Prasad reasoned that Kerala HC, despite being smaller than many HCs, was already represented in the SC by Justice Kurian Joseph. Besides, Chhattisgarh HC Chief Justice T N Radhakrishnan and Kerala HC CJ Antony Dominic also counted Kerala HC as their parent HC.
 
  
  
 
 According to sources, Prasad also said there was no representation of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in the apex court and representatives of these marginalised communities should find a place.
 
 Prasad dug deep into the  's records to assert that the consideration of seniority was overlooked only for the sake of ensuring a balanced regional representation in the SC. "But in case where the high court concerned is adequately represented in the SC and also as chief justices of different high courts, then this consideration cannot be, and should not be, ignored altogether to the detriment and prejudice of the other judges," the minister said in his letter.
 
 With the government digging in its heels, the confrontation between the government and the collegium over the appointment of judges may worsen. The collegium is yet to approve the draft memorandum of procedure laying guidelines for the appointment of judges to the SC and HCs, sent to it by the government more than a year ago.
 
 Under the law, the government is within its right — something that sources in the law ministry emphasised on Thursday — to request the collegium to revisit its choices. However, it will have to acquiesce to the SC's selection if the collegium sticks to its recommendation for Justice Joseph.
 
 It is not clear whether CJI Dipak Misra will convene a meeting of the collegium, which enjoys the last word in the appointment of judges, immediately.
 
 The CJI, who heads the collegium comprising the four other most senior judges of the apex court, had recommended the appointment of Justice Joseph and Malhotra on January 19.
 
 In his letter to the CJI, Prasad justified the uncoupling of recommendations for Justice Joseph and Malhotra, and said there were many instances of segregation of appointments under UPA. "Such segregation of proposals has been done in many cases earlier," the minister said, adding that the proposal for reconsideration of Justice Joseph's case had the approval of the President and the Prime Minister.
 
 A top functionary of the law ministry said that in 2009, the UPA government twice staggered the acceptance of recommendations.
 
 
