CHANDIGARH: In a significant development in Haryana’s cash-for-job scam, a local court in   on Friday allowed some candidates who had claimed to be victims of the racket, to record their statements before the investigating team that is probing the case.

 The court has also directed the special investigating team (SIT) to take appropriate steps immediately to take over the record of all the examinations in dispute preserved by the Haryana Staff Selection Commission ( ).
 
 Additional sessions judge Narender Sura has passed these orders while hearing the cash-for-job scam involving various HSSC employees taking bribe to ensure selection into state government jobs.
 
 When the matter came up for hearing before the court on Friday, some candidates, claiming to be victims of the scam, prayed for recording their statements in relation to the case. 
 
 The public prosecutor, however, argued that these candidates had no locus standi to file the application and were not entitled to any such direction. The public prosecutor further argued that they should have approached the SIT to associate in investigation instead of filing the applications.
 
 Hearing this, the court observed that this court expected appropriate action in a time bound manner if the applicants approached the SIT. It would be the prerogative of the SIT head to decide whether the statement of any such person or document, if any produced, was relevant for the fair investigation of the case or not, the court ordered.
 
 The judge further observed that the whole idea was to retain public confidence in impartial investigation in such a case where victims of the fraud, if any, would be lakhs of educated and unemployed persons. “This court expects that the SIT will conduct fair investigation by considering every aspect of the case and would not spare any accused, whoever he may be, if there is evidence regarding his involvement in this examination scam,” the court observed.
 
 Meanwhile, the SIT on Friday supplied transcript of complete conversation of mobile phones of all the accused in a sealed cover.
 
 On Thursday, the judge had directed the SIT “to produce transcript of complete conversation of mobile phones of all the accused from the date on which mobile phone numbers were put on interception”.
 
 
