NAVI MUMBAI: What if we told you that the friendly neighbourhood ‘sabzi’ vendor has been charging you several times or even more the wholesale prices for table staples like cauliflower and carrots?

  The price of broccoli on Friday was Rs 5 per kg at the wholesale APMC market, but sold at a high of Rs 100 a kg at an upmarket mart in a residential area in Vashi, while it traded between Rs 50-60 a kg at the Vashi main market. The price quoted by the vendors on pavements was Rs 20 a kg in the late evening hours.
 
 Kailsah Tajni, the chairman of wholesale vegetable merchant association, APMC, told TOI, “The price of tomatoes has come down to Rs 5-6 a kilo compared to Rs 6-7.” But the kitchen staple sells at Rs 40 per unit at upmarket retail plazas, while the general price was Rs 20 a kg. Brinjal is sold at Rs 5 per kg in the wholesale market, but its prices jumped to Rs 30-60 a kg, depending upon the location. There has been a declining trend in wholesale prices of vegetables since the beginning of January due to an excellent winter crop, but the retailers had pocketed the benefit and unsuspecting customers were paying more. Retail rates of most vegetables remain high in Mumbai. “Each year prices tend to drop after November 25 as winter sets in but this year rates did not fall until after December 15. On Friday, cauliflower is selling for Rs 60 per kg, brinjal Rs 80 and broccoli Rs 120,” said Ayesha Bano, a resident of Four Bungalows, Andheri. Tomatoes are at Rs 16-22 and onions Rs 30.
 
 The Dadar Plaza Market is the main wholesale market of exotic vegetables. Trader Dharmendra Vaish said, “Prices of most exotic vegetables including broccoli, zucchini and Chinese cabbage have dropped. In growing areas farmers are selling for Rs 7-8. The wholesale rate in Dadar is Rs 15-25 per kg. Retailers who factor in overhead costs and some profit can sell for Rs 35. If they are charging more than that it is profiteering.”
 
 An experts said, the absence of space to sell directly produce had resulted in few markets and as a result the crash in wholesale prices had not been transferred to buyers.
 
 
