MUMBAI: In what is seen as the beginning of a new innings, the popular Shardashram Vidyamandir in  , which has gifted the country cricketing heroes such as Sachin   and Vinod  , has decided to migrate from the state board to   for its primary classes from the coming academic year. It has taught the   curriculum for close to 50 years now.

 
 While the management says it is making the shift to meet the demands for a “budget” Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations ( ) school, parents are unhappy with the decision to completely phase out the SSC section. A group of parents even submitted a complaint to the education department on Tuesday.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Set up in 1969,   Vidyamandir has been a preferred state board school in Dadar. For the switch to ICSE, it changed its name to S V M International School in August 2017 and received a no-objection certificate from the education department last November.
 
 A parent told TOI: “We haven’t been given a choice and have to compulsorily move to ICSE. My child has studied in the state board for six years now and the sudden shift will be very difficult. The school could have started it year on year from Class I and let our children continue in the SSC board,” said a parent of a Class IV student.
 
 “The school doesn’t have enough infrastructure to start the ICSE section, so how has the department given it an NOC? What if the CISCE denies affiliation when the students go to higher classes like it happened with a neighbouring school?” asked another parent. Affiliation to the board is completed once the first batch reaches Class VIII. 
 
 School authorities, though, said that parents were kept in the loop since the past two years. “We had consulted the parents and told them about our plans. We had held sessions to tell parents about the pros of an ICSE school. We are catering to the demand for a non-state board school and the perception that the ICSE board provides better education. Students from classes VI to X will continue to appear for the SSC board. The fees charged for the ICSE curriculum is over a lakh at most schools but we do not plan to levy a fee higher than Rs 50,000,” said Subhash Jadhav, school’s administrative officer.
 
 Parents met Jadhav on Tuesday along with members of Yuva Sena. “The school also requires to take permission from the BMC to change its name and while the matter is on the education committee’s agenda for April 27, the school has already issued ID cards using the new name,” said Sainath Durge, member of the BMC education committee and Yuva Sena. “The required permissions are taken from the state education department but we have also written to the BMC about the name change. We have taken their representation and put it before the management, and will take a decision in two days,” said Jadhav. 
 
 
