GURUGRAM:  , the 13-year-old Gurugram resident, was felicitated on Monday night by the  , after winning the IM (International Master) title and achieving his maiden GM (Grand Master) norm, in February.   achieved both distinctions at the Gibraltar Masters, one the strongest open tournaments in the chess calendar. 

 Even in front of the media, this quiet and thoughtful lad showed a maturity far beyond his years. 
 
 “I still don’t know whether chess will become my career, it’s too early to say,” Prithu confessed. But it is, he added, a call he will have to take one day.
 
  For the record, Prithu’s performance in Gibraltar took his Elo rating to above 2400 (obligatory for an IM title). Seven months earlier, he had achieved his first IM norm, at the Silver Lake Open in Serbia, and his second IM norm came a month later, at the Golden Prague Chess Festival in the Czech Republic. Prithu took top honours in the latter event, winning seven out of his nine matches in Prague and crossing 2300 rating points.
 
  Prithu had admitted to entering the Gibraltar Masters with very low expectations, an approach that worked in his favour, helping him play with a free mind – even in the knowledge that among his opponents were some of the world’s highest rated players.
 
  He got his campaign under way with a brace of draws, against GM Le Quang Liem – the world no. 23 from Vietnam, with an Elo rating of 2737 – and Venezuelan GM Iturizaga Bonelli Eduardo (Elo rating, 2650). In the third round, Prithu defeated Fabien Libiszewski, the Grand Master from France, before drawing with experienced GMs Anna Muzychuk (Ukraine), Rasmus Svane (Germany) and Federico Perez Ponsa (Argentina). And despite a reverse in the eighth round, he stormed back with a winning display against Norwegian IM Johan-Sebastian Christiansen.
 
  That victory in the eighth and final round brought Prithu his first GM norm. Barring the blip in the seventh round, Gibraltar showcased him at his most consistent, while also highlighting his ability to take setbacks in his stride.
 
  Hard work and focus have brought this Modern School (Vasant Vihar) student thus far, and he urged his juniors to be as committed. 
 
 When asked what chess had taught him, Prithu replied, “To not rush into decisions and to be patient.”
 
  Should he secure a couple more GM norms, Prithu can become India’s next Grand Master. But all in good time. There are studies to attend to, and friendships to nurture. Chess, however, will always be a part of his life.
 
 
