Madurai: “Tamilila enakku ellame pidikum’, (I love everything in Tamil), said Chiharu Obata, 27, a Japanese software professional from Tokyo, after tying the knot with her husband Yuto Ninaga, a linguistic professor, in a Hindu traditional wedding at Madurai on Sunday. It was love for Tamil which brought the duo along with their families all the way from the Japanese capital to get hitched in the city.  Chiharu and Yuto, 31, had registered their marriage in Japan on April 1 this year. But when her friend V Vinodhini from Madurai, who lives in Japan with her family, suggested they marry in Tamil style, she didn’t think twice. Along with her parents, Keiji Obata and Naomi Obata, and her husband’s family represented by Yuto’s brothers Tunehito and Chiaki as well as sister-in-law Junko, the couple flew down to Madurai.  Starting from their wedding invitation printed in Tamil and rituals, it was a typical Tamil Hindu traditional wedding, where the couple tied the wedding knot in front of the holy fire raised by priests chanting vedic mantras. The wedding also saw the bride and bridegroom playing the customary games and seeking blessings from their elders.  “I feel a bit nervous and have not been to such rituals but my wife has been here and participated in family functions and events in Tamil Nadu”, said Yuto clad in a traditional dhoti and shirt. He said he enjoyed donning the attire very much. “I have seen actors Dhanush and Vijay wearing them in the movies. I am getting used to Tamil culture and things”, he said.  Chiharu took up researching Tamil when she studied linguistics and found that Tamil and Japanese had a lot of similarities. “She approached me to learn Tamil and we became close friends. Chiharu used to participate in all family events. When she registered her marriage, I suggested a Tamil style wedding here in Tamil Nadu and the bride and groom’s family also agreed”, Vinodhini said. Since Vinodhini and her husband Venkatesh, working as an engineer in Japan, hailed from Madurai, they chose the city and made all arrangements for the Japanese couple to get married here.  Chiharu’s father Keiji said that his daughter was thrilled at getting married in Tamil style and she had been studying the language for the last four years. “We are very happy to be in Madurai. We liked all the rituals and food as well”, he said. H Velavan, hailing from Coimbatore and working as engineering manager at an automobile industry in Japan, was also present for the wedding. He said Chiharu used to participate in all Tamil festivals conducted by the community in Japan and he had got acquainted with Chiharu there. “She invited all her Indian friends and I happened to be here for vacation and so joined the event”, he said. 