BENGALURU: Schools seeking the tag of minority educational institutions should have at least 25% of their total number of students in an academic year from the religious or linguistic minority community, according to the draft   (Recognition of Minority Educational Institutions Terms and Conditions) Rules, 2017. 

 Primary and secondary education minister   said on Tuesday 25% students of the institution can be from any minority - linguistic or religious, as the case may be - community for it to seek the minority tag.
 
  The draft rules prescribing four eligibility criteria were gazetted on March 19, 2018 and objections and suggestions can be submitted for 15 days to the principal secretary, primary and secondary education. 
 
  Earlier, the rules had said the 25% students should be from the minority community the school claims to represent. 
 
 They define linguistic minority as any community whose mother tongue is not   but any other language included in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution. A religious minority is defined as those notified as such by the central government under the   for Minority Education Institutions Act, 2004.
 
 The rules apply only to institutions providing primary or secondary or higher secondary education or a combination of them. It spells out procedure for making application for the minority institution status as also grounds for withdrawal of the recognition.
 
 Minority institutions with recognition will have to sumit a compliance report on continued adherence with the new criteria by September 30 every year.
 
 "The previous government had said 75% of the students of the institution should belong to that community. However, in 2014, a cabinet decision reduced this to 25%. We have finalized the rules now and said the minority institution should have 25% of its students from any of the minority communities," primary and secondary education minister Tanveer Sait said.
 
 For instance, a Christian institution can now have 25% of its students from all religious minorities to avail the minority tag.
 
 
 
 
