Actor   has been in the headlines for her bond with rumoured beau  . From parties to matches, the two have been snapped together numerous times. 

 
 Although Elli has been tight-lipped about the rumours of them   each other, she reportedly said that let people be curious in life. Elli even posed a rhetoric question that why does she need to clarify anything. By talking about these rumours, she’d just be giving more fodder for gossip. And that so many wrong things have been written over the years but she has never gone out and clarified them. 
 
 
 Elli added that when one becomes a known face, people will follow them for gossip and news. But, they are not going to lock themselves up. So, one can’t do much to stop these rumours. People have such strong mentality that no matter what she says about Hardik, they will eventually comment, ‘Oh, she is lying. We know the truth. She is hiding something’.
 
 
 Interestingly, Hardik of late has been spotted with ‘Hate Story IV’ actor   at a party. We wonder what’s cooking up with these two!
 
 
 An online report suggested that after having a tête-à-tête with the two brothers, Urvashi later had eyes and ears only for Hardik. Onlookers confirm that there were flirtatious looks being exchanged between the starlet and the cricketer. They seemed to hit it off rather well. 
 
 
 The source reportedly added that Urvashi met the men in blue, Hardik and Krunal, at industrialist Gautam Singhania’s party at his Breach Candy residence.
 
 
 It has come across as astounding news to many since reports suggested that Hardik and Elli AvrRam are seeing each other. 
 
 
 Earlier Elli reportedly said that she shares a close bond with her family, and they know the truth of whatever is happening in her life. So, she is not worried. In fact, her dad has always taught her to ignore such things, and laugh at them as most of the times these stories are absolutely cooked up. When she was a teenager, she used to say that she’s married to God. In fact, she used to wear a ring on her ring finger so that guys won’t try to hit on her thinking that she’s already engaged. And if anyone asked, she would say, ‘Yeah, I am engaged to God’.
 
