Ludhiana: A local SAD leader was arrested on Friday a day after he allegedly assaulted a cop on duty after the latter got the leader’s   car towed away as it was wrongly parked.

 The leader, Bhupinder Singh Mangat, 60, of village Noorpur Bet, not only misbehaved with the cop, but he also brandished his weapon and point at the driver who was towing away the vehicle.
 
 He has been booked under Sections 353 (Assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 186 (Obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 506 ( ) of IPC and under Arms Act.
 
 In his complaint, head constable   of city traffic police said on Thursday, his duty was to tow away wrongly parked vehicles.
 
 “When I was in   with the workers of a private company, hired for towing away the vehicles, we noticed a Toyota Innova car parked outside permissible line in the main market area. As soon as the workers started towing away the car, it owner came there and started arguing with us,” the cop alleged.
 
 He alleged that the car owner misbehaved with them. “The cops tried to pacify him and followed the procedure of clicking a picture of the wrongly-parked vehicle as a proof.”
 
 “However he did not listen to us and when the driver of towing vehicle started to go away, the accused brandished his weapon and pointed it on his head and threatened him not to move any further,” he added.
 
 The Ghumar Mandi police was called on the spot and the man was arrested.
 
 ASI Mukhtiar Singh, in-charge, Ghumar Mandi police post, said the accused is a local SAD leader. He was arrested from the spot and sent on judicial custody for 14 days.
 
 Two held for injuring cop
 
 In another case, the Jamalpur police have booked two people for injuring a constable deployed at a checkpoint. Constable Harpal Singh said on Thursday, he was deployed on a checkpoint near Tikona park, Jamalpur where he waved a car to stop for checking. However, the occupants, identified as Lakhanpal and   of Savan Vihar Colony, Jamalpur, hit the barricade while trying to escape. In the process, the constable was injured. The accused were caught after a chase. 
 
 
