HYDERABAD : The official theme for this year’s World Heritage Day (April 18), selected by the   on Monuments and Sites (ICOMOS), is “Heritage for Generations”. But given the scant protection of monuments and sites of historical, cultural, archaeological and social value in Hyderabad, the grand slogan of the ICOMOS may remain a pipe dream, feel heritage experts.

 The next generation may not be able to see the few monuments and sites that exist now thanks to unchecked encroachments and lack of political will to conserve historical structures. 
  
 Several countries have declared free entry into otherwise ticketed monuments on April 18 to create awareness among youngsters. But in Hyderabad, officials have not conceived any innovative methods to attract youth this World Heritage Day. The only saving grace is the opening of partly-restored necropolis of the   rulers. While Charminar pedestrianisation project (CPP) is a good idea, its unscientific execution has put the very structure built in 1591CE in peril.
 
 Only a few structures built by the Qutub Shahis are under the ‘protected’ tag of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) while none of the buildings constructed during the Asaf Jahi period are under the official list of heritage monuments. Megalithic stone burials elsewhere in the world are protected, but in Hyderabad there is no trace of them. In fact, Hyderabad was once dotted by several prehistoric sites, a few of which date back to about 50,000 years.
 
 “Hyderabad city and suburbs were once famous for numerous archaeological remains. There were prehistoric and proto-historic sites. The antiquities found in Hyderabad were unique. Megalithic tombs have disappeared. The cairns in   were denotified. There were cairns in Abids. The cairns in Mir Alam tank are no more. Encroachments have eaten away a major portion of megalithic burial site in Hashmatpet,” said INTACH Hyderabad convener P Anuradha Reddy. She said a perusal of official lists of monuments prepared before and after Independence shows the colossal loss of heritage.
 
 City historian   regrets that though World Heritage Day is celebrated every year on April 18 with promises to make monuments better, little is done to improve their condition. “We need to introspect. Telangana does not have even a single world heritage site despite having world class monuments and historical buildings,” he said, calling for proper allocation of funds for renovation, restoration, and promotion of Hyderabad’s heritage and history.
 
 Heritage activists demand inclusion of history of Telangana and Hyderabad in school and college curricula. “Small megalithic burial sites like Avebury in the UK are famous the world over. Despite all the vandalism Hyderabad still is left with a few prehistoric burials. They need to be marketed properly,” said heritage activist MA Moin.
 
