PUNE: The state government has come under the scanner for severe   of funds meant for rehabilitation of people staying in mining-affected areas.

 In the last financial year ending March 2018,   spent only 5% of the total District Mineral Foundation (DMF) fund for the rehabilitation of mining-affected people, a central government   has revealed.
 
 It simply means that the mining-affected people were deprived of drinking water, good roads and even health care because of the government’s lackadaisical approach.
 
 When contacted, senior revenue officials blamed the delay in funds’ approval for the poor execution of schemes. They also sought to play down the issue saying that utilization of funds is charted out as per the demand.
 
 TC Benjamin, former chairman of state expert appraisal committee, said, the utilization of DMF fund has been poor in Maharashtra and there is almost no awareness about it. “We had issued several orders concerning the issue, but to no avail. The vegetation in the mining-affected areas is destroyed, hitting the bio-diversity here. It is important that all the aquifers in such areas are restored as water in such areas is affected too,” he said.
 
 And Maharashtra is not the only state to have come under the Centre’s radar for its approach towards the mining-affected. Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Andhra Pradesh have also fared poorly in executing schemes and utilizing funds for the affected. “Subsequently, they have been directed to focus on just two to three schemes to ensure proper utilization of funds,” the report stated.
 
 
 
 
 In the last financial year, Pune district was allocated Rs 3 crore under DMF. In the current financial year, the district got another Rs 7 crore for 55 mining sites, state officials said. “We are ensuring that the entire amount is utilized and works are allocated at all sites,” officials from the state mining department said.
 
 
 
 
 There are 13 mining-rich states in the country with a total of Rs 13,398 crore collected for their DMFs. They spent only 17% of the total amount till the end of 2017. As on November 30, 2017, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra were the laggards when it came to spending funds under DMF.
 
 
