LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister   would be in Karnataka on Tuesday evening to address the culmination of Jan Suraksha Yatra largely covering coastal areas. In a repeat of what the BJP did in Kerala, the yatra in Karnataka was on for the last four days to instil confidence among the party cadre that top leadership was firmly behind them. Karanataka BJP in-charge Muralidhar Rao alleged that around two-dozen RSS-BJP members were killed in the last few years by radical outfits during Congress Siddharamaiah regime. 

 
 Interestingly, Yogi would be addressing the yatra culmination programme at Nehru Maidan in Mangaluru district. The yatra began on February 3 and covered districts like South Kannada, North Kannada, Udupi and Shivamogga etc. Situated along the Arabian Sea coastline, North Kannada, Udupi and South Kannada and Shivamogga districts of Karnataka have remained centre of religious conflicts and also house several spiritual centres. Interestingly, the places also have have significant Muslim population and strong presence of RSS and other Hindu outfits.
 
 By pushing Yogi Adityanath's pro-Hindutva stand in the region, the BJP, it seems, is also making a bid to reap benefits of polarisation. 
 
 To a question on why Yogi, Muralidhar Rao said that becoming chief minister of the most populous state of Uttar Pradesh itself makes him appealing throughout the country. For long there has been an ideological fight around Hinduism, which is inclusive in itself and thus secular in every sense, and Yogi Adityanath - even before becoming the CM - has been championing the Hindutva ideology. He certainly has a mass appeal now all over the country at a time when the people have also begun to understand the real Hinduism, Rao said. 
 
 Similarly, since Congress has vitiated the atmosphere by dividing the society in the name of religion and that people have begun feeling frustrated, Yogi's appeal as pro-Hindutva mascot has more acceptability, Rao said and added last but not the least, since BJP is a cadre-based party, his approach against criminals in just over 10 months of rule and his pro-good governance approach has also made him popular everywhere and people do want to hear his stand on various issues, which makes him the most popular of the leaders. 
 
 This would be Adityanath's third visit to Karnataka ever since he became the UP chief minister. On November 21, he took part in BJP's parivartan yatra by addressing a rally in Hubli followed by a rally in Bangalore on January 7. 
 
 The BJP leaders claim that there is no doubt that after Prime Minister   and BJP chief Amit Shah, Yogi is the most popular leader pan-India. More campaign programmes led by Yogi would be held, Karanata in charge Murlidhar Rao said and added that the dates for the same are yet to be finalised. It is a matter of pride for the UP BJP that its leader and the CM is in demand in every state of the country, BJP spokesman Dr Chandramohan said. 
 
 Interestingly, Yogi had earlier been visiting the Yogishwar Math, commonly known as Jogi Math of Kadri in Mangaluru. The math is most revered by the Nath sect. Since Yogi Adityanath hails from Natha sect, he had been visiting the math earlier too. 
 
 Yogi would leave for Karnataka from Lucknow at around 2.30 pm and would attend the programme beginning 5.30 pm onwards.
 
