For the average Malayali filmbuff,   would be just a name they saw in the cast credentials of  ' upcoming film  . 

 But glance through her career profile and you will be amazed. From winning a Miss India pageant when she was 19 to getting nominated for a Critics’ Choice award at the Cannes for her debut film Raman Raghav 2.0, this Telugu girl is no newbie to heavy duty performances or achievements. In conversation with the actress, who has just wrapped up the shoot of Moothon, on her experiences of working on the project and more:
 
 
 I happened to read the extraordinary script of Moothon and was very much moved for days on end. I reached out to the film's director Geetu to check if I could be a part of this story in any capacity. She wasn’t too sure at first, considering I am just 24 and the role needed a weathered and mature actor. I did a test shoot and fortunately, she saw her character Rosy in me, and it turned into a very creative collaboration. I always fight for what I believe in and this project was certainly a result of that.
 
 
 
 She’s from Kamathipura in Mumbai and is feisty and gorgeous, yet complex. The kind who personifies the smell of coffee! To portray a sex worker in her everyday spirit while staying true to reality became a journey into understanding my own psyche. We went through workshops and I did a lot of homework on my own. My character emotionally broke me and built me in ways I couldn’t have by myself.
 
 
 
 Yes, we were dressed like our characters in the ghettos, living and interacting in real spaces like brothels and slums. I was touched to discover that these women who deal with the darkest realities were the kindest I’d ever known. They would help me adjust my sari, we would play with their children while buying bangles and gush over our favourite songs. I learnt a hard fact; that dignity is a luxury in our country. It was a real character building experience for me. Shooting 20 hours a day in Mumbai’s summer was draining but equally exhilarating.
 
 
 
 I watch a lot of Malayalam films and admire them greatly. The films have such wonderful content. I’m delighted to be part of a Malayalam film. Nivin being gentlemanly, sincere and funny makes for joyous company, both on and off screen.
 
 
 
 Yes, I have signed a Bollywood film with Jeethu Joseph. It’s the official remake of a remarkable Spanish thriller. I have met Jeethu a couple of times so far and I’m sure it’s going to be wonderful working with him. I’m looking forward to working with my co-actors Emraan Hashmi and Rishi Kapoor. It’s a little early to give away any details, all I can say is that it’s a stunning, taut story in the making. 
 
 
  
 I have completed shooting for Goodachari, a film in my mother tongue, Telugu. It has a fantastic story made by a talented team who had earlier made the critically acclaimed 2016 Telugu film Kshanam, which was also remade in Tamil as Sathya and Baaghi 2 in Hindi. I play a very interesting and layered character and the film will be out this summer.
 
 
 
 I moved to Mumbai to pursue my degree after high school. I was 19 or 20 when I won Miss India and then did some exciting work in fashion. I switched to films eventually and had known very clearly that I wanted to be a part of meaningful projects that I would enjoy watching as well. I was lucky to work with Anurag Kashyap in my debut film, Raman Raghav 2.0, and could attend the Cannes Film Festival where I was nominated for the Critics’ Choice award. It was a big surprise and turned out to be a great motivator for me. I feel even more dedicated towards creating a rich body of work and it further validated my passion for being part of substantial stories. My second film Kaalakaandi (with Saif Ali Khan, directed by Akshat Verma) was a lot of fun, and helped me experiment and learn. I truly cherish my experiences so far and am very grateful for them. It is important to have the right heroes in life. I’m glad to be working under passionate people. However, my first love will always remain writing.
 
 
 
 I’ll be leading a web show by Zoya Akhtar and it will be out in the last quarter of this year. And then there is Goodachari in Tollywood, this summer. There are a couple of wonderful projects in the pipeline but it’s too early to speak about them.
 
 
