KEEZHATTUR (KANNUR): Cutting across political affiliations leaders and activists converged at Keezhattur in the district in solidarity with the agitation of ‘Vayalkilikal’, a collective of the residents, against a planned NH bypass cutting across their paddy fields.

 
  
  
 They joined the Vayalkililkal in a rally that began from Thaliparamba and concluded at Keezhattur paddy fields, where a public meeting was held. The meeting marked the beginning of the second phase of agitation against the bypass, which was inaugurated by activist Nambradath Janaki.
 
  leader V M Sudheeran,   leader B  , MLA P C George, Rajya Sabha member Suresh Gopi, RMPI leader N Venu and social activists A Vasu and C R Neelakandan were among those who participated in the rally.
 
 Considering the volatile situation, a large posse of police was deployed but the programme was held peacefully and the   kept away from the locality and ‘boycotted’ Vayalkilikal, whom they had branded ‘vultures’.
 
 Activist Suresh Keezhattur, who read out the ‘Keezhattur Declaration’ at the meeting, said development should not be at the cost of nature. V M Sudheeran, who addressed the meeting organized by the committee formed to express solidarity with the agitators, said development should also consider the people’s interest. The government should consider the alternatives proposed by the   (KSSP) the Congress leader demanded.
 
 Suresh Gopi, who addressed the gathering pleaded to CM Pinarayi Vijayan to solve the logjam amicably, and said that the Centre would extend all support.
 
 Though all the political parties in Kerala had reached a consensus about 30m width for the highway in Kerala, it was sabotaged in six months and made it to 45m, alleged P C George, who said that a number of hills would have to be demolished and there was corruption involved.
 
 BJP leader Gopalakrishnan, said corruption was not limited to demolishing hills but mining of clay from the paddy fields in the guise of developing the bypass. The agitation garnered public support after the makeshift shed built by the agitators was set afire, allegedly by the CPM, after the protesters were arrested on March 14.
 
 The BJP seems to have a larger game plan by extending support to the agitation. As part of the BJP march extending support to Keezhattur agitation on April 3, the   from Nandigram, who fought against the CPM, will visit Keezhattur, said BJP leader Gopalakrishnan.
 
 Meanwhile in Kochi, ruling out further talks with the protesters, PWD minister G Sudhakaran said Vayalkilikal lacked an alternative solution. Claiming that more than 55 land owners had consented to acquisition, he said the   government had made the bypass plan.
 
 
