MADURAI: Outbound tourism from Madurai to destinations outside the country has increased significantly as there has been an increasing interest in south east Asian countries, with Bali the most sought after destination this season.

 “Families from Madurai are showing a lot of interest in travelling abroad, compared to about a decade ago when it was usually groups who went on package tours. Singapore,  , Thailand, and   continue to be the most sought after destinations by families as these are economical and comparatively safe destinations for family travel,” said N Sriram, director of Balika Travels Madurai.
 
 “Many families prefer to start their foreign tours from these places because they can visit many places in a short time and obtain visas easily in a hassle free process,” he said.
 
 Dubai is also another much sought after destination with families visiting the gulf country during the shopping festival and summer holidays. “We loved the trip to Bangkok and Phuket and had a good family time. My daughters also loved it. The food is good, people are friendly and it is also a safe place to travel,’’ said  , director, Dot Com Infoway.
 
 This year, Bali in Indonesia has become a sought after destination for people from Madurai and many of them are showing a lot of interest to visit the ancient Hindu temples there. Travel agents also say that shopping in Indonesia is cheaper as for every Indian Rupee you get 200 Indonesian Rupiah. The biggest attraction is that Indonesia gives free visa-on-arrival.
 
 Madurai has about 50 tour operators, including a handful of big and small travel agencies handling ticketing, insurance, package tours and other tourist facilities. “There has been a growth of 32 per cent in outbound tourism during 2017-18 compared to 2016-17,” said G Jayakumar, branch manager of Riya Travel and Tours India.
 
 “Many of the package tours to destinations like Bangkok and Sri Lanka are cheaper than domestic travel if booked in advance. For example a three-night four-day package from Madurai to Goa would cost Rs 25,000 per head, whereas the same rate can be availed for Bangkok inclusive of sightseeing if booked in advance,” said  , manager of Akbar Holidays.
 
 
