Chennai: The new state syllabus   released on Friday have a number of special and improved features in line with international standards say   department officials, but teachers and students won’t even get a glimpse of them now. 

 Officials said the new books will be made available to students and teachers only at the beginning of the  . However, several teachers were of the opinion that the books should be made available earlier, to give schools time to  .
 
 “We would like to have a look at the  . We haven’t been informed about this by the school as the books are still being printed,” said a teacher from DAV School, Gill Nagar. 
 
 Revathy Bonns, principal of MCC Matriculation and Higher Secondary School, said that teachers need at least a month to prepare before teaching students. “If it’s the same content, we wouldn’t be worried. But this is a whole new syllabus. Teachers will also require some training to orient themselves for the new kind of pedagogy,” she said.
 
 “Teachers should familiarise themselves with tech-based knowledge and go through the draft of the revised   to get an idea of the content that is to appear in the texts,” suggested Prince Gajendra Babu, secretary of the State Platform for Common School System. 
 
 The entire year’s content for   has been published as one textbook. However, texts for Classes I, VI and IX are being printed in three volumes.
 
 The books will have upgraded visual representations, internet activities page having website/mobile links and QR codes that can help students directly access info about topics. Officials also said that the paper quality will be superior to the existing one. 
 
 SCERT director G Arivoli said that of the total 172 titles, 147 were released on Friday and the printing of copies is still ongoing for all four grades (1, 6, 9 and 11) under each subject. “The remaining   are mostly vocational and will be released soon. Content for all core titles is ready,” he said. There are at least 50 core titles while books for Class XI will have many more due to the different groups like commerce, biology and computer science.
 
 “We will be printing only 650 titles for microbiology while biochemistry will have around 900 of them. Printing for such select groups won’t take much time as we will be catering to the number of students who have picked these streams,” said Arivoli.
 
 
