Madurai: The averment that consumption of alcohol causes at least 80% of liver-related problems, has not been scientifically and statistically proved and hence there was no need to establish gastroenterology wings in all government headquarters’ hospitals, the health and family welfare department told the Madras high court Madurai bench. 

 One C   had filed a petition in the court seeking a direction to the government to take action to provide treatment facility to liver affected patients by creating the wing in all hospitals across the state.
 
 The petitioner said that information he received under   (Right to Information) revealed that 85,112 outpatients and 7,157 inpatients underwent treatment in government hospitals in Chennai for liver-related diseases in 2008. The strength increased to 1.47 lakh and 19,807 respectively in 2014. In the rest of Tamil Nadu, the number of outpatients went from 20,740 in 2008 to 51,561 in 2014 and the number of inpatients went from 512 in 2008 to 2,835 in 2014. 
 
 He claimed that 80% of liver-related diseases are caused by liquor consumption and that there were no adequate infrastructure in government hospitals in the district headquarters to treat such patients. 
 
 Filing his counter-affidavit before the court, deputy secretary of the department A   said the gastroenterology wing is a super speciality wing, in which only limited seats are available and this speciality is available only in government medical college hospitals, he said. 
 
 Further, he said that liver diseases arise due to various reasons including hepatitis A,B,C,D,E, post viral B and C (hepatitis), cardiac, anto immune, idiopathic, cryptogenic, non-alcoholic steato hepatitis, biliary cirrhosis, Wilson’s disease, antitrypsin deficiency, cystic fibrosis and leptospirosis etc. Liver is not affected only because of consuming of alcohol, but also due to various complications. 
 
 Besides, it is not necessary to have a gastroenterology wing in all hospitals to treat all the liver-affected patients. The district headquarters hospitals have been posted with general physicians who are equally good to manage such cases., Sugavanam said.
 
 Following this, principal secretaries of state’s home, prohibition and excise department and managing director of   were impleaded in the case. 
 
 
