Coimbatore: Two months after they started the construction of the new bus stand at Sulur, town panchayat officials were stumped to find mounds of garbage, sewage and water oozing from the ground when they began erecting pillars on Monday. Only then the officials came to know that the four-acre land allotted for the project used to be a stone quarry and later a dump yard. After the discovery, the town panchayat, which was racing against time to complete the project announced a year ago, has stopped work at a portion of the bus stand. The officials have now decided to redesign the project, fearing that the loose soil would be detrimental to the structure. “The soil test report said some areas have loose soil. We realised the problem only after the work began,” executive officer of the Sulur town panchayat K Dhansekaran told TOI. After the government sanctioned the Rs 4cr project, rural administration minister SP Velumani had laid the foundation stone two months ago.  The contractors, who were executing the project, had dug up nearly 13 feet to lay foundation pillars. In some locations, only 6-feet was dug up. A few days ago, when water and garbage started showing up in the locations they dug up, the shocked contractors reported it to the officials. Superintending engineer Rajendiran held an inspection on Monday and met the officials to discuss the future of the project. After realising that safety of people was at stake, they will ensure that the project is executed as per norms, Dhansekaran said. “We did not know that this land used to be a stone quarry. When water started oozing out, we immediately stopped work in those portions,” he said. Assistant executive engineer of the project G Elangovan said that the bus stand was supposed to be divided into two portions. “One portion will have runway and 12 bus bays and the other portion will have shopping complexes and restaurants. The problem area covers less than an acre of the land. In those locations, we will execute work by using pile foundation, which is generally used for construction on water bodies. This will ensure structural strength of the bus stand,” he said. Meanwhile, social activist K Ramamoorthy told TOI that at any given time, at least 500 people will visit the bus stand and their lives will be in danger. “The rods used for laying the foundation should be at least 20mm wide. But, only 10mm and 16mm wide rods were used. I have no idea whether they want to save money or are completely unaware of the engineering behind construction. Either they should change the site of the bus stand or ensure that earth is dug out for nearly 30-feet as that much garbage has been dumped. Also, the quarry is that deep. Only if they dig out the entire waste and remove water, will the foundation stand firm. Else, over a period of time, water would loosen the soil and after several years, a similar tragedy such as Somanur, but bigger in size in terms of people injured, awaits us,” he said. 