The Krishna Chaitanya directorial,   and   starrer ' ', is a film much-awaited not just due to its cast and the film’s teaser, but because it also marks the comeback of Trivikram and Pawan Kalyan after the disastrous 'Agnyaathavaasi'. No, we aren’t talking about Trivikram directing the film and Pawan Kalyan starring in it, but both have been involved in the production of it. 
The jukebox of 'Chal Mohan Ranga' features six songs composed by  , the first of which is the electrifying 'Pedda Puli' sung by Rahul Sipligunj and penned by  . The folk-heavy song is inspired by the Telangana song performed by artistes during Bonalu. The lyrics, vocals, music and tune of the song are so on-point in this dance number that it’s hard not to sing or dance along, especially if you are a fan of traditional folk. It’s not just us who are fans of the song, because Lonely singer Akon had also given a huge shout out to the team after listening to this number. 
 Second on the album is 'Very Very Sad' featuring Yazin Nizar and Sanjana Kalmanje’s vocals, and Balaji’s lyrics. The quirky song has fun lyrics and after the excitement of 'Pedda Puli', 'Very Very Sad' seems to slow things down a bit with its soft tune and music. Yazin and 
 Sanjana’s vocals too suit the song, making it a soothing listen. 
 Making things upbeat again is 'Miami' with its EDM music and edgy vocals by Aditi Singh Sharma, Rita and Manisha Eerabathini. The lyrics for this song have been penned by Neeraja Kona and the music, tune and vocals never really let you concentrate much on the lyrics. The music is a little reminiscent of Yanthara Lokapu Sundarive from 2.0 in parts, but on the whole, Miami is a fun and hummable number.
 'Vaaram' featuring Nakash Aziz’s vocals and Kedarnath’s lyrics begins on a classical note and switches things up in between, adding a massy touch. The song has decent vocals, tune, music and lyrics, but it doesn’t offer anything new and seems to pale in comparison to the previous songs. 'Gha Gha Megha' by Rahul Nambiar, featuring Krishnakanth’s lyrics is an adorable typically Thaman-esque song with all its components. Light-hearted and hummable, it makes for a peppy listen.
 Ending the album on a classical note is Ardham Leni Navvu, sung by Sreenidhi and penned by Raghuram. The song is a beautiful number elevated by Trivandrum Balaji’s Mridangam beats. Soothing to listen, it’s definitely a treat for classical music lovers. The beautiful lyrics and Sreenidhi’s vocals work well with the Mridangam beats, making the number a memorable one.
 All in all, the album of Chal Mohan Ranga is a treat for music lovers offering a mixed bag of songs, making it seem like there’s something for everyone in the album. However, if forced to choose, we would go with the folksy 'Pedda Puli', peppy 'Miami' and classical 'Ardham Leni Navvu' as the go-to songs in the album. This one’s worthy of loop people, get your headphones ready! 
 
 
