HYDERABAD: Taking forward his effort to form a   with   and   political parties, chief minister   will fly to Bengaluru on Friday and meet former prime minister  . The meeting is expected to be held at Gowda’s house.

 
 KCR will leave for Bengaluru in a special flight at 9.45am and return to the city at 5:30pm, said Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) sources. The chief minister will discuss the need for formation of a Federal Front by bringing together various political parties. KCR is likely to take Deve Gowda’s views and suggestions on this issue, sources said. KCR’s daughter and Nizamabad MP Kavitha, TRS leader in Rajya Sabha K Keshava Rao, chief advisor Rajiv Sharma, special advisor to CM Rajiv Sharma and a couple of officers from the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) are slated to accompany the chief minister.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Chandrasekhar Rao had earlier announced there was a need to bring in qualitative change in national politics and alleged both Congress and BJP ruined the country in past seven decades.
 
 On March 19, KCR met Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and discussed the possibility of the Federal Front. Mamata Banerjee supported the idea of bringing in qualitative change and assured KCR of working together with him.
 
 Among others, KCR already reached out to former Jharkhand chief minister  , while actor Prakash Raj called on KCR and backed the chief minister on his initiative.
 
 Among others that KCR is likely to meet in the next few days is his Odisha counterpart and Biju Janata Dal chief Naveen Patnaik. TSR chief will also try to meet Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in the coming days, the sources said.
 
 Apart from meeting leaders of non-BJP and non-Congress political parties, KCR announced he would hold a series of meetings at all-India level with various organisations, associations and individuals to take forward the Federal Front plan. As part of series of meetings, the chief minister would also like to have a meeting with national-level retired defence (Army, Navy and Air Force) personnel and officers; All-India Legal Luminaries and advocates, All-India level Farmers’ associations from all states; Central services retired officers; employees associations of all states.
 
 These meetings are expected to be organised in Hyderabad and in other cities like New Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata and Bengaluru.
 
