KOCHI: In a move that could significantly bring down the number of flight diversions,   (Cial)   have now installed the instrument landing systems (ILS) in the western end of the runway, which will now allow pilots to land flights from the western side of the runway. 

 ILS provides precise radio signal navigation to the aircraft cockpit, giving the pilot vertical and horizontal guidance when landing in low visibility.
 
  Currently, Cial has ILS set-up of the east end of the runway. They have completed the set-up and calibration of the new ILS and are now awaiting the approval of the directorate general of civil aviation. They expect it to be operational by the end of February. 
 
 Airport officials said that having the ILS at the western end of the airport has been a long-standing demand of many air carriers flying into Kochi from Mumbai, West Asia and Ahmedabad. 
 
 Presently, these flights have diverted towards the eastern end of the runway during low light conditions. Having ILS on the Western end will help these flights save fuel. 
 
 Cial officials said that they spent around Rs 3.5 crore to scale up the runway lighting system to aid the flight landing from the western end.
 
 "Sometimes during poor weather conditions on the eastern side of the runway, flights can also turn towards the western end, where the weather conditions might be better," said   A, airport director, Cochin International Airport Ltd. 
 
 The landing systems are also expected to increase the durability of the runway, as flights will be using both ends of it as opposed to one. 
 
 Cial officials said that currently, they have around 750 flight landings every week. Once the new ILS is functional a significant number of the flights of will start landing from the other end of the airport. 
 
 "We are forecasting 20% yearly increase in the traffic in the domestic sector for the next 10 years. We are lining up our projects in order to accommodate the growth in traffic and passenger movement," said  , managing director, Cochin International Airport Ltd.
 
 
