MADURAI: The R   committee appointed by Governor Banwarilal Puriohit to probe the   scandal involving Devanga Arts College assistant professor Nirmala Devi, will seek more time to file its report as the committee is planning to investigate two more people arrested by the CB-CID police.

 While the report was to be submitted before April 30, Santhanam said that he would seek an extension of time as he was planning to take statements from assistant professor in management studies department V Murugan and former research scholar Karuppasamy who were in CB-CID custody now. On Thursday, the committee questioned Nirmala Devi, who was lodged in Madurai central prison, for around six hours in two sessions. 
 
 R Santhanam, a retired IAS officer, said that Nirmala Devi cooperated well with the inquiry. He was accompanied by the two women professors appointed to assist him in the probe,   and S Thiyageswari. The team reached the prison at 9.20 am and was with Devi till 1 pm when they left for lunch. They returned at 2.50 pm and continued the session till around 6.30 pm. 
 
 When the team came out in the afternoon, Santhanam said that there was no plan to conduct an inquiry again with Nirmala Devi. On Friday, he would be travelling to   in Virudhunagar district where he would take statements from the college officials. Santhanam said that the the outcome of the inquiry was recorded as statement and would be appended with the report. 
 
 Meanwhile, Karuppasamy, a former research scholar of MKU who had surrendered in court on Wednesday in connection with the case, was sent to police custody for four days. He was produced before Sattur judicial magistrate court on Thursday. Though the CB-CID sleuths sopught his 10-day custody, the court granted them only four days. 
 
 Police had been looking for Karuppasamy ever since his name as well as that of V Murugan were revealed by Nirmala Devi. While Murugan, who was summoned for investigation, was arrested later, Karuppasamy had gone underground before surrendering in a Madurai court.
 
 
