NAGPUR: Crime branch squad cracked down on a gang duping citizens by promising to exchange demonetized currency notes and nabbed five persons, including a businessman, on Saturday. The police raided an apartment in Rajate Colony and recovered Rs98 lakh in demonetized notes, a Mauser pistol and two live cartridges.

 A Balaghat-based person too is among the ones nabbed during the operation. Police said the gang, after failing to exchange the scrapped currency notes, had been planning to commit a dacoity at a petrol pump.
 
 The five persons arrested have been identified as Santosh Kadam, Rajesh Chandak, Deep Marshal, Radhelal Lilhare and Santosh Kaikarwar. Kadam, a native of Yavatmal, is considered to be the mastermind of the gang who had fled from his native place after incurring substantial losses in the business of hiring out lawns. He had also a debt of around Rs1 crore against him. The firearm and cartridges were recovered from him.
 
 Crime branch, after rounding up the suspects, also informed Balaghat police of Madhya Pradesh after Lilhare’s face seemed to have matched with a suspect but nothing was found during the interrogation.
 
 Police said none of the five had any serious crime records. The gang was busted following a tip-off from an informer of head constable Afsar Khan. The raid was conducted by a squad under PI  , APIs Gorakh Kumbhar, Prashant Choughule and  , PSI Shriniwas Mishra.
 
 Apart from Khan, constable Ramesh Umate, Naresh Sahare, Amit Patre and others too participated in the raid conducted at the apartment where Kadam had hired a room for the last few months. It’s learnt Kadam had introduced himself to the landlord as a representative of a finance company. Police said Kadam had been luring businessmen and traders promising them to get their old notes exchanged. In the process, Kadam had accumulated demonetized currency notes (10,000 pieces of Rs500 and around 4,800 pieces of Rs 1,000).
 
 The police have also informed the   and income tax department about the seizure.
 
 An offence was registered at   police station against the five. Police said the gang has been now remanded to custody till February 28.
 
 
