NEW DELHI: The fines are paltry,   too widespread and action too superficial. A large-scale encroachment removal drive has been on in the city for over a week now but it is unlikely to have a lasting impact. The encroachments removed by the civic bodies till date are mostly minor in nature. In fact, in many areas, it has taken just a couple of days for the violators to return. 

 In the past one week, the   have seized over 750 vehicles and 100 illegal carts besides demolishing over 500 permanent and temporary structures and extensions of buildings on pavements. 
 
 
  
 
 Major encroachments like illegal surface parking, illegal constructions and massive encroachments in parks and public land are not being touched. The apex court had asked for a detailed report in two weeks and the three corporations are busy ramping up numbers to show compliance, but there are many loopholes in the drive.
 
 The corporations are running out of space to store the seized items. They are impounding abandoned vehicles but the ones parked illegally are being challaned for Rs 100 by Delhi Traffic Police.   officials pass the buck to the civic bodies, claiming that they are the ones who are supposed to impose a hefty fine on vehicles that are parked illegally. “There are hundreds of vehicles parked on the roadside and we do not have space to keep all of them. We have issued challans to these vehicles, and if they do not abide by the law, then a hefty fine should be imposed by the corporations,” said a traffic police official. However, civic officials claim that they can impound only abandoned vehicles. “It is the job of the traffic police to seize the vehicles that are parked illegally,” said a senior south corporation official.
 
 Civic officials say that while they are the ones being criticized for the encroachments in the city,   has more responsibility to prevent the squatters from taking over public land. “We do not have the paraphernalia, manpower or resources to continuously monitor all roads. The beat officers and SHOs are both capable and legally responsible for preventing encroachments coming back once a street has been cleared,” said a senior south corporation official. 
 
 A 2008 Supreme Court order by Justice Altamas Kabir and Justice BP Singh had directed “Delhi Police that whenever hawkers are removed from the non-hawking zones, they shall see to it that those areas are not reoccupied by them...We hereby declare that every SHO shall be held personally responsible if such hawkers reoccupy the areas from which they have been evicted. Any non-compliance of this court’s order shall be treated as a breach and punishable as contempt of court,” read the order.
 
 The corporation is also hamstrung by lack of resources like bulldozers, trucks and staff. “We have limited manpower and resources to carry out the drive but in many areas we have collaborated with   to keep it going,” said a north corporation official. An east corporation official pointed out that due to a financial crunch, they cannot even hire private labour or get equipment on rent.
 
 The fines/challans under the DMC act are too paltry to act as a deterrent. “A cart owner for example has to pay only Rs 500 to get his cart released. The penalties should have been revised a long time back but that will need amendments to DMC Act and there is no political will to bring about a harsher regime,” the official added.
 
 Ashutosh Dikshit, CEO of URJA, said that the entire exercise of clearing encroachments will fail if residents do not cooperate. “The exercise of clearing encroachments from footpaths of shops and vendors and other commercial activity will fail if residents themselves continue to buy from such outlets,” said Dikshit.
 
 
