SHIKARIPURA: It is 4.30pm and the 35-year-old vendor at the small “refreshments” corner opposite   bus stand is awaiting customers. “This bus stand was constructed when   was at the helm of affairs. Since then there has been a lull. Over the last three years, there has been a drop in the town’s floating population, unlike when Yeddyurappa was in office. There is an effort to dislodge him, but who is there to challenge him?” he says.

 
 The undercurrent in Shikaripura suggests that BJP’s chief ministerial candidate, Bookanakere Siddalingappa Yeddyurappa, is facing antiincumbency on his home terrain. Three successive years of drought and lack of jobs are major issues in the constituency. In sharp contrast to the days when migrants used to come here in search of work during Yeddyurappa’s days in power, locals are going out in search of livelihood now.
 
 But with no credible opposition to dislodge him, a confident Yeddyurappa has let his elder son, BY Raghavendra, run the show in Shikaripura and is steering the   campaign elsewhere in the state.
 
 Shikaripura, a sleepy town, has the highest number of villages attached to any constituency in the state. With 170 villages, of which 69 are “tandas” or revenue hamlets of Lambani community, the constituency is battling stagnation in development. Several works undertaken by Yeddyurappa when he was in office have failed to yield dividends as they have lapsed with his exit.
 
 Shikaripura was a reserved constituency till 1972 and was changed to general category in 1978. Of the 14 elections held from here,   has won five times, BJP eight times and KJP once. Yeddyurappa contested from the assembly segment for the first time in 1983 and barring once in 1999, has never lost an election from here. He has won the seat six times as a BJP candidate and once on a KJP ticket.
 
 At 75, Yeddyurappa is once again being tested by opponents who are trying to foil his chances of being reelected from the “Land of Shivasharanas”. This time, he is under pressure to deliver along with Shikaripura the entire state for BJP.
 
 Yeddyurappa was last seen in the constituency on a whirlwind tour on March 25, appealing to voters to condone his absence and elect him. Locals recall during that visit, a visibly tired Yeddyurappa said at the remote village of   that he was “sure to win...and people want to see me again as CM of the state”.
 
 Congress, which has struggled to find a man to take on Yeddyurappa. has fielded a political novice, GB Malathesh, a Kuruba while J(S) has fielded HT Baligar, a retired official from SC/ ST community. Baligar had contested against Yeddyurappa in 2013 and secured just 15,000 votes.
 
 But even as constituents feel the two non-BJP parties have failed to put up a challenge, BJP workers say there is a tougher fight on their hands this time. “While Yeddyurappa is sure to win, there will be a substantial cut in his vote margin,” said an aide.
 
 Malathesh said the situation has changed and Congress will get more votes this time, while the JD(S) candidate said he would get votes from minorities and weaker sections.
 
 Shikaripura has around 50,000 Lingayat voters who hold the key. Congress is making an all-out effort to divide the Yeddyurappa votebank by pulling prominent leaders from the community into their fold. The other major communities include SC/STs (33,000), Kurubas (18,000), Muslims (14,000) and Idigas (14,000).
 
 Paddanna, 80, considered a mentor of the former CM, says, “Yeddyurappa has won the hearts of the people and it will be difficult for others to challenge him.” He says even a combined struggle against Yeddyurappa could turn out to be futile.
 
