AGRA:   Muslim University has given a “good conduct” certificate to research scholar Mannan Wani who is suspected to have joined the   after photos of him holding an AK-47 surfaced on social media and the terrorist group even "confirmed and welcomed" the student into its ranks. Though the university had promptly expelled Wani then, an inquiry report submitted by AMU to the police department has described him as a “brilliant student” who had “nothing objectionable” against him as far as the university was concerned.

  Two separate inquiries were conducted by AMU authorities and findings of both the reports were similar, a senior university official told TOI on Tuesday.
 
  In the 109-page report, which was submitted by the two-member committee comprising Prof SH Arif from the department of pathology and Prof Kamlesh Chandra from ENT department of JN Medical College, it has been stated that during his five years in the university, Wani had “nothing suspicious on his record”.
 
  The other committee was formed by the varsity proctor, Prof Mohd  , immediately after Wani’s expulsion from the university. The committee included Prof Rashid Omar from department of geology where Wani was enrolled as a research scholar and Mohd Mohsin from the department of dermatology of  . They have also submitted a 20-page report with similar findings about Wani’s conduct.
 
  Prof M Shafey Kidwai, member in-charge of public relations, AMU, said that the report was prepared after talking to teachers, Wani's guide and fellow hostellers. He said nothing “objectionable” has been found against him.
 
  Confirming that the report had been received, Aligarh senior superintendent of police Rajesh Pandey said it will be sent to the   (ATS) and examined in detail.
 
  Days after Wani disappeared and a social media post showed him with an AK-47 assault rifle, Hizbul presented him as its latest poster boy for the organization. A statement issued by its chief, Syed Salahuddin, said this proved that educated youths, too, were joining the “struggle for freedom”.
 
  “(The) Joining of Manaan Wani exposes the Indian propaganda that the youths of Kashmir are joining militant ranks due to unemployment and economic distress,” Salahuddin had said in the statement to a Srinagar-based news agency.
 
  This is not the first time an AMU student has been arrested for alleged terror links. In September 2016, a Kashmiri student, Mudassar Yusuf, was expelled from the university for posting "objectionable comments" on Facebook over the terror attack on Army camps in Jammu and Uri.
 
  Another student, Mubin from AMU’s Habib Hall, was arrested in 2001 in connection with the Sabarmati Express blast. However, he was acquitted later by the court as no evidence was found against him.
 
   , a PhD (physics) scholar of the university, went on to found the Students Islamic Movement of India (SIMI) with some other alumni in April 1977. In 2002, SIMI was banned and declared a terrorist organisation.
