CHENNAI: Eighteen months after scrapping the direct polls to elect mayors, the Tamil Nadu government on Thursday introduced a bill in the assembly to revert to the practice of people directly voting to elect mayors in municipal corporations and chairpersons in municipalities and town panchayats. In all 12 corporations in the state, including Chennai, people will vote to elect councillors and mayors.

 The Jayalalithaa government had scrapped direct elections and opted for indirect elections by enacting a legislation in June 2016. Citing the reason for moving the bill, local administration minister SP   said, “It has been brought to the notice of the government by the heads of departments that large number of representations were received from the general public, various forums, and elected representatives that direct election will be best system for smooth functioning of administration of the local bodies.”
 
 The flip-flops on the changing political dynamics are nothing new. In the 1996 and 2001 local body polls, the mayors were directly elected by the people. In Chennai, DMK leader   was chosen as mayor on those two occasions. But DMK government changed that to indirect election in 2006, and the next   government made it direct when it assumed charge in 2011.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 “We opposed the AIADMK move to make the elections indirect in 2016. Looks like they understood the concerns raised by us now. Directly elected mayor will have more responsibility. Indirectly elected mayors face the risk of ‘no confidence’ motions from councillors and hassles in executing schemes,” Saidapet MLA MSubramanian told 
 . Subramanian was elected mayor of the corporation indirectly by the councillors in 2006.
 
 The statement of objects and reasons of the bill said the heads of the department was of the view that in the case indirect election, mayors and chairmen necessarily have to pay more attention to the development of their division/ward from where they are elected, instead of the entire municipal corporations, municipalities and town panchayats. Further, they will have to depend on the strength of the councillors and they will not be able to act independently for the uniform development of the civic body.
 
 In 2016, the government, however, sought to clarify that the councils of certain corporations were not functioning properly since the mayor did not enjoy the support of councillors, and therefore it decided to elect the mayors indirectly by the councillors. “After careful consideration, the government decided to change the method of election… which will facilitate better administration of the local bodies for more efficient and quick delivery of civic services to the people,” Velumani said, detailing the need to amend the laws now.
 
 On Thursday, in separate bills, the government cited the pendency of cases in the courts on local body polls, and sought to extend the term of the special officers up to June 30, 2018, or until the first meeting of the council after the civic elections are held. DMK, and its allies,   and IUML opposed the bill in the introductory stage itself.
 
 
