BENGALURU: Chief minister   on Wednesday asked police to take suo motu action against people posting   on  .

 Those circulating such messages will face stringent legal action, including externment, the CM told mediapersons at the annual   held at the DG & IGP’s office. He was responding to a query on how he plans to tackle the increasing trend of hate messages going viral on social media.
 
 “Police officials should not wait for complaints to be lodged in such cases. Whenever such messages are seen, jurisdictional police should take suo motu action immediately,” he said. Communal elements indulging in spreading hatred and dividing society in the name of caste and religion will be brought to book irrespective of the organization and caste they belong to, Siddaramaiah asserted.
 
 The CM was effusive in his praise for Karnataka police during his address at the last annual police meet in his current tenure, in contrast to the first speech he had made after he assumed office in 2013. He categorically said police have done their best, notwithstanding some glitches, including intelligence failures.
 
 “All these years, recruitment to the intelligence wing was happening on a transfer basis. Police officials from different departments were being transferred to intelligence, and some of them thought the transfers were like a punishment. So we have decided to recruit staff particularly for intelligence and strengthen the department,” Siddaramaiah said, adding, “The recruits will not be transferred to other departments like law and order and traffic, and will get special training.”
 
 On the security measures to be adopted for the upcoming assembly elections, Siddaramaiah said elaborate arrangements will be made at all the 56,000-odd poll booths across the state. Adequate security will be put in place at sensitive and hypersensitive booths. 
 
 Focus on women, kids’ safety
 
  (NCRB), Siddaramaiah said the crime rate in Karnataka has dropped by one per cent compared to 2014-2015. “I have directed all senior police officials to give priority to the safety of women and children,” he said.
 
 The CM asked police to curb the drug menace. “More and more students are reportedly falling prey to it. It is important to find out who sells drugs and who smuggles them into our state,” he said.
 
 Spurt in investments 
 
 Lauding police, he said their efforts in curbing crime saw a spurt in investments in the state. “I am happy that you all have worked hard. When it comes to investments, Karnataka occupies the first position, which wouldn’t have happened if the policing was ineffective,” Siddaramaiah said. 
 
 Assuring senior police officials of his continued ‘moral support’ to the department, Siddaramaiah, however, said the recent murders of Deepak Rao and Basheer that caused communal unrest in coastal areas could have been averted.
 
 
