Nagpur: Civic agency Nagpur Improvement Trust ( ), which has been pulled up by Nagpur bench of Bombay high court for rampant malpractices, refuses to mend its ways. It is now shielding a charge sheeted official and reneging on its promises in the process.

 Suneeta Aloni, the incumbent deputy director of town planning (DDTP) of NIT, was chargesheeted in January 2011 on various counts. However, no action was taken against her. Then, surprisingly, the charge sheet went missing from NIT office. Following TOI expose, Congress corporator Bunty Shelke and his supporters staged an agitation outside the agency’s office. Chairman Deepak Mhaisekar had assured Shelke he would ask general manager Ajay Ramteke to conduct an enquiry into the missing document.
 
 When TOI contacted Ramteke on Monday to know the status of the enquiry, the GM said that no such enquiry had been ordered. “The document had gone missing from the office of superintending engineer Sunil Gujjelwar. He has lodged a police complaint in this regard,” he said. Gujjelwar confirmed this to TOI.
 
 Shelke was furious on learning about this U-turn. “I will again stage an agitation against Aloni and Mhaisekar. I will not rest until action is taken against the tainted DDTP,” he told TOI.
 
 On January 7, 2011, the then NIT chairman Sanjay Mukherjee had chargesheeted Aloni and clearly stated disciplinary action should be taken against her as she had violated Section 3 of Maharashtra Public Services (Conduct) Rules, 1979.
 
 The first case pertains to wrong opinion given to NIT regarding release of public utility plots in mouza Jaripatka, which caused a financial loss to NIT. Two plots in mouza Dabha were reserved for primary school. NIT chairman had the power to allow construction of primary school on this land. Aloni, without verifying whether the chairman had given such a permission, asked the superintending engineer to give a green signal for sale of this land. 
 
 Hotel Pride (earlier Hotel Jagsons) located in mouza Somalwada had done extra construction on its plot. It agreed to pay premium for extra floor space index (FSI) available to three and five star hotels. NIT in June 2001 sanctioned the amended building plan. In spite of these facts, Aloni recommended the hotel's expansion should not be given permission as it was illegal.
 
 
