Nagpur: Private medical and engineering coaching classes are up in arms against the state’s move to regulate them through the proposed Maharashtra Private Coaching Regulation Act 2018. If the draft goes through in toto then coaching classes will have to shell out 5% of their income for a development fund, go for periodic licence renewal, charge fee approved by authorities and even reserve seats for students belonging to specified sections of the society.  The 18-page draft bill covers all aspects of the private coaching business from fee, number of students and type of premises to hiring of tutors. Coaching class owners feel the law is almost ‘draconian’ in its wording and will ‘stifle quality education’. Sameer Phale, a coaching class owner, said, “On what basis is the government demanding 5% of our income? We are already paying GST (18%), professional tax and the regular 30% income tax. It’s not like the state has given us free or subsidized land, electricity or building due to which they can have a moral authority to demand extra from us.” The 5% of income is slated to be pooled for the state’s education development fund.  TOI made several attempts to seek a reaction from school education minister Vinod Tawde but received no reply. The minister’s media team did promise to revert with an official quote but till the time of going to press, none was received.  The proposed legislation also grants complete access to the local education officer (or any other designated authority) to premises and official records of the coaching class. Sarang Upganlawar, owner of another class owner, said, “The proposed bill will allow education officials to come and evaluate our teaching material. This is all intellectual property so why should we share it with an outsider?” He added that regulation is welcome but ‘not this format’. “All of us want that there should be regulations because it will help to streamline things. But the clauses included in this draft reek of inspector raj and dictatorial attitude,” said Upganlawar.  Integrated coaching system, in which colleges allow private tutors to use their campus for coaching, is a rage nowadays because of mutually beneficial economics. This, however, will be completely banned under the proposed law. Registration will be mandatory for every coaching class for which a fee (below Rs10,000) will be charged. If the institute has multiple branches then each will have to be registered separately. Before registration process is complete, the institute will have to prove that it has premises that’s authorized by the local body, ample parking space, separate washrooms for girls and boys and a secure perimeter. Classes that are renewing their registrations will also have to submit proof of complete tax payments.  TOI has learnt that in the coming week coaching class owners in Nagpur will be meeting with CM Devendra Fadnavis and MP Nitin Gadkari to seek their intervention. 