VARANASI: The local unit of the   has threatened to launch 'Halla-Bol' stir to mark its protest against the killing of its worker   on May 11 and alleged deteriorated law and order in the district. 

 As a part of the stir they will stage a sit-in and hold a public meeting in front of police stations to expose the failure of police and will also obstruct Prime Minister  's movement in his parliamentary constituency during his next visit.
 
 SP city unit president Rajkumar Jaiswal, on Tuesday, said, "The party has given time of a week to the police to arrest the accused of Sahani's murder and improve law and order in the district. If they fail in fulfilling these demands, the SP will launch a series of 'Halla-Bol agitation targeting one police station every day. As a part of the stir, the SP will hold a sit-in and public meeting in front of police stations and expose the failure of police."
 
 On Monday evening, the party convened a joint meeting of its district and city units under the leadership of district chief Piyush Yadav and Jaiswal. The party expressed concern over the rise in crime and alleged that killings of trader Sonu in  , father and son in Sarnath, Sahani in   area and Shiva in   in past fortnight had exposed the state of law & order in the district. 
 
 The speakers including former minister Manoj Rai Dhoopchandi also held the recent attack on its other leader Vijay Jaiswal, in which one of his employee was killed, as shocking and demanded security for him. They criticized the police for delay in arrest of Sahani's killers. They said that as the people in the PMs constituency are living in fearful atmosphere due to the failure of police they would not allow Modi to move on city roads during his next Varanasi visit.
 
 Later, a delegation of SP leaders also met ADG Varanasi zone PB Ramashastri and submitted a memorandum. Jaiswal said that ADG assured the party leaders for early arrest of Sahani's killers. However, the party made it clear that if its demands are not met in a week they will launch an agitation, he said.
 
 
