CHENNAI: The two Spanish giants — Barcelona and   — have shone on different fronts this season. While Barcelona sealed a double with the   title and Copa del Rey, Real Madrid, who had to endure a frustrating domestic season, made the   final for the third consecutive time. Under the circumstances, there is a feeling that Sunday's La Liga Clasico might lack the intensity and cut-throat competition that is so common when the two meet.

 But former Barcelona striker   feels otherwise. The 36-year-old says that Los Blancos will aim to restore some of their domestic pride and spoil Barcelona's party, especially when  's boys are aiming to finish the league unbeaten — a feat never achieved before in La Liga.
 
 "I think Barcelona have played better football in La Liga this year. Real Madrid, on the other hand, didn't focus much on the league after realising early that they might not be able to shorten the gap with the leaders. So they targeted Champions League and have been successful. However, a Clasico is above the present form and statistics. The sheer magnitude of the match, the emotions riding high, the atmosphere… the Clasicos create heroes out of footballers. It is about bragging rights and prestige. So players tend to give their best in the match. So Real will not make it easy and hope to spoil Barcelona's party," Villa told TOI during an exclusive chat facilitated by La Liga on Saturday.
 
 Sunday will witness  , who joined Barcelona from  , making his debut in the Clasico. Villa, who had scored two goals in his first Clasico, said: "When you are playing in your first Clasico, it's always special. My first Clasico was amazing. It was a dream start as Barcelona won 5-0 in Camp Nou. I think it's impossible to imagine something better than decimating your arch-rivals in the first Clasico. What also made it sweeter is the fact that I scored two goals. It's the greatest match in the life of any footballer. So I feel Coutinho would try and make this worth," said Villa.
 
 
  Watch El Clasico Live and Exclusive on Sony Ten 1 & Sony Ten 2 at 12:15 am.
 
