KOCHI: Elamakkara police have launched a probe against the workers of a private bus in the city after a complaint was filed at the station alleging apathy from the part of the bus crew towards a passenger who died after suffering stroke while travelling in the bus. 

 Lakshmanan, 40, a resident of  , reportedly suffered stroke while travelling in a private bus, ' ', plying on   route on Saturday.
 
 "  boarded the bus from Pallimukku to go to Palarivattom and felt unwell when the bus reached Shenoys Junction. He collapsed in the bus while the bus was on its way to Kaloor. The complaint said that the bus driver, conductor and the door keeper refused to provide him any medical aid. They let the passenger alight only near   that too after other passengers in the bus protested. From Edappally, he was rushed to a private hospital by co-passengers and a traffic warden from Edappally. However, the patient was declared dead at the hospital,"   said.
 
 A case under 174 CRPC was registered at Elamakkara police station on Saturday evening.
 
 "It was the colleague of Lakshmanan, who work at a bar in the city, lodged the police complaint. The accused have been asked to reach the station for further investigation. If found wilful negligence from the part of the workers, they will be arrested. A probe into the incident has been launched," the inspector added.
 
  Balan, manager of the bar where Lakshmanan was working, said the bus continued its trip for around 45 minutes after Lakshmanan collapsed in the bus. "The bus crew said that the trip will be disrupted if the patient was taken to hospital and that they will provide him medical aid when they reach Aluva, their last point of the trip. Finally, when Lakshmanan was brought to MAJ Hospital at Edappally, doctors said that his life could have been saved if brought at least 10 minutes earlier," said Sreejith, who filed the police complaint. 
 
 "The patient was brought dead, and the cause - either stroke or cardiac arrest - could not have been assessed then and there. If he was given CPR earlier and given medical aid, there were chances of saving him," the hospital authorities said.
 
 Lakshmanan's body was taken to Wayanad on Sunday afternoon after conducting autopsy at Government Medical College, Ernakulam.
 
 
