MUMBAI: On a day of dramatic political developments, the   “hijacked” a   nominee, the BJP “hijacked” a Congress candidate, and as a result, the Congress had to launch a search for a nominee of its own for the May 28 Palghar Lok Sabha by-election. 

 Shriniwas Wanga, son of BJP’s deceased LS member Chintaman Wanga, filed his nomination papers on Tuesday as a Shiv Sena nominee, while Congress leader and former minister Rajendra Gavit submitted his papers as a BJP candidate. The Congress is likely to field former LS member Damu Shingada for the bypoll. 
 
 Tensions between the saffron allies are likely to grow following their decision to contest the by-election separately, and for the ensuing Lok Sabha and assembly polls too, the possibility of an alliance between the two parties appears, at the moment, bleak. 
 
 Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis expressed strong displeasure over the manner in which the Sena “hijacked” the BJP nominee  . 
 
 “Palghar is a BJP seat; the party had won the Lok Sabha poll (there) on several occasions. We were in the process of finalising the candidature of Shriniwas Wanga. In fact, even the Shiv Sena leadership was aware of the BJP’s decision. Still, the Sena unilaterally declared Shriniwas’s candidature. It was wrong on the part of the Sena to take such a decision,” Fadnavis said. 
 
 Fadnavis announced that senior Congress leader and former minister of state for tribal development Rajendra Gavit would be BJP nominee for the bypoll. “Gavit has joined the BJP just now, and we have nominated him. I am sure that in view of his outstanding performance, he will win the by election,” Fadnavis said. 
 
 The Sena had last week inducted Shriniwas and other members of the Wanga family into the party after they accused the BJP of ignoring the late MP’s legacy as well as his kin. 
 
 A Sena spokesperson said when both Fadnavis and state BJP president Raosaheb Danve ignored members of the Wanga family, they expressed their desire to join the Sena. “The family waited for a week for communication from the BJP. 
 
 When there was no response, they called on Uddhav Thackeray and expressed their desire to join the Sena. Their entry was unconditional. A few days later, the Sena asked Shriniwas if he would contest the  , and when he agreed, we announced his candidature. So it was wrong on the part of the CM to blame the Sena,” he said. 
 
 State Congress president Ashok Chavan said it was “unfortunate” the BJP was “using money and muscle and engineering defections,” that too at the last moment. “It’s no more aparty with a difference. They nominated Congress leader Gavit. The people of Palghar will defeat him with a record margin. In any case, in view of his poor electoral record, he was not (going to be) the Congress nominee. We have proposed the name of former MP Damu Shingada,” Chavan said.
 
