AHMEDABAD: The ministry of home affairs (MHA) has withdrawn the ‘Y’ category security cover given to   quota stir leader  .

 Patel, who addressed more than 100 public meetings in the run up to the 2017 Gujarat assembly elections, was given ‘Y’ category security in November 2017, which entailed a security detail of CISF jawans.
 
 Top police officials said that after a re-assessment, the MHA wrote to the CISF to withdraw his security cover. 
 
 “We have asked Ahmedabad city and rural police to re-assess the threat perception to   Patel and accordingly decide whether on providing him local-level security or not,” said a senior police official.
 
 Hardik tweeted, “Lets is whether this is a plan to kill me or sent me to jail. I do my work, the fruit, whether good or bad will be borne by me.” 
 
 Police sources said the   (CISF) will now withdraw Patel’s security cover at its convenience. The central government had proposed ‘Y’ category cover for Patel just before the Gujarat assembly polls, as he was travelling widely and the possibility of an attack on him could not be ruled out.
 
 Patel had initially declined the security detail, but in November 2017, when central intelligence assessed that he faced a possible threat, Patel accepted it.
 
 Patel had then said that he had been persuaded by senior IAS and IPS officers that the threat perception was real and he ought to accept the security cover.
 
 “A security detail of eight armed CISF jawans was provided at his residence and when he moved about,” said a senior police official.
 
 This April, the Gujarat government asked the Gujarat high court to cancel Patel’s bail in a sedition case he faces, on the grounds that he had gone to Ramol, an area the his bail conditions prohibited for him entering.
 
 Meanwhile, on April 7, a man was arrested in Ujjain after he threw ink at Hardik Patel at a hotel. The accused, Milind Gurjar, threw ink at him. Gurjar had admitted that he threw ink as he was annoyed that Patel was allegedly fooling the Gurjar and Patidar communities for his own interest. The Patidar leader had earlier attended several programmes at Neemuch and Mandsaur. 
 
 
