KOLKATA: A convict and two undertrials — all Bangladeshi nationals — escaped from   early on Sunday by cutting through iron rods of their prison door using smuggled hacksaw blades. The trio scaled a 20ft wall using nine rags and bedsheets provided to them last week by the prison authorities to beat the chill.

  (26), Firdaus Sheikh (29) and Farukh   (24) were found missing during the morning attendance count at 6am.
 
 The jailbreak, which exposed the lack of security at the central prison, involved three inmates in Ward 7 of   1, where they shared the cell with several other prisoners. But apparently none of them woke up when they cut open a 1.5-inch thick iron rod to slip through the locked prison.
 
 Preliminary probe revealed the trio had fed ‘Joynagar er Moya’ spiked with sedatives to some inmates, who sleep near the prison door. A source in the jail said they sneaked out of the barrack and walked about 400 metres within the compound before scaling a guava tree located inside the jail premise. Then they climbed a 20ft wall using an L-shaped iron water pipe as a hook and bedsheets as ropes.
 
 However, none of the jail guards — including the ones at the watchtowers — noticed them. “Three jail guards, who were in charge of manning the barrack and the walls were suspended. An inquiry has been initiated,” said Arun Gupta, DG (prison).
 
 Cops probing the case said the jailbreak was the result of weeks of planning. “The trio managed to get hold of a hacksaw blade and slowly cut two iron rods of their cell door over more than a week. They used to sing at night to mellow down the noise of hacksaw brushing against iron cell door. They took sedatives in small quantity from prison hospital over several weeks and mixed it with the ‘Joynagar er Moya’, whichthey had recently bought from the jail canteen. They gave it to fellow prisoners and possibly some jail guards too,” said an officer probing the case.
 
 While Hawladar and Sheikh were undertrials,   was a convict. His jail term had ended two months ago and his repatriation procedure was under way. Cops suspect the three possibly took the narrow alley alongside Tolly canal to escape either to Bhowanipore or Alipore.
 
