DEHRADUN: Indian fast bowler   sustained injuries after being involved in an accident on way to Delhi, near Asharodi, on Sunday morning.

 
 Shami, who will play for   was in Dehradun to prepare for IPL tournament, was travelling to Delhi in the wee hours when his vehicle collided with a truck. The cricketer was taken to hospital where he was given stitches on the head. Mohammad Fahad, Shami’s friend who was travelling with him told TOI, “The accident occurred at 5.30 am. Shami was injured and got stitches. He has been discharged from the hospital and is recuperating.”
 
 The 27-year-old cricketer trained for two days at the   (ACA), run by Bengal batsman and India A player Abhimanyu Easwaran’s father in Dehradun, to rejuvenate himself mentally and physically. He had claimed that he has been under “mental torture” after his wife Hasin Jahan lodged a complaint of domestic violence and infidelity. Shami has denied all the allegations. RP Easwaran, director of Abhimanyu Cricket Academy, said: “Shami received minor injuries and got stitches and has been discharged from the hospital. He is now recuperating at a friend’s house in the city. He will leave when he is well enough to travel.”
 
 
  
 Dr. Mahesh Kuriyal, managing director of Dehradun’s CMI Hospital where Shami was taken for treatment, said: “He was brought to the hospital at around 7:30 am. He got a cut above his right eyebrow and was given 10 stitches.” The doctor said the injury will have no impact on his fitness.
 
 Police filed an FIR against the truck driver under section 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 338 (causing grievous hurt) and 427 (committing mischief) of Indian Penal Code. The truck driver, identified as Bhura Ahmed, a resident of Budhana in   district of Uttar Pradesh, has been arrested.
 
 Shami has been booked under various non-bailable, including attempt to murder, and bailable sections of the Indian Penal Code. Jahan has also alleged that Shami had taken money from a Pakistani woman named Alishba on the insistence of an England-based businessman, Mohammad Bhai.
 
 The BCCI had cleared Shami’s central contract after its Anti-Corruption Unit (ACU) exonerated him of corruption charges levelled by his wife Jahan. Shami has been given a Grade B annual contract, which will make him richer by Rs 3 crore.
 
