PANAJI: The state government has decided to conduct a fresh survey of scheduled castes (SC), scheduled tribes (ST), and other backward castes (OBC) in the state to identify their proportion to the population of Goa. The survey is expected to take six months once it commences, said minister for social welfare   on Saturday.

 “The social welfare department has already taken a decision to conduct a fresh survey of not just ST and SC, but also OBC,”   said. He was addressing reporters on the sidelines of the Ambedkar Jayanti celebrations. “The survey has not yet started, but yes, there is a government decision to take a fresh look at the ST and OBC communities. The survey will take six months.”
 
 Government officials said that the survey could play a role in reservations in government jobs and professional colleges. The move to conduct a fresh survey in the state assumes importance in view of the parliamentary elections which are expected to be held in early 2019.
 
 The current reservation for SC is 2%, ST is 12%, and OBC is 27%, bringing the total reservation in Goa to 41%. In January 2014, ahead of the   polls, the Manohar Parrikar government had approved a proposal to increase the reservation for OBCs from 19.5% to 27%. According to government statistics, there are around 5,000 posts in government departments which are vacant and reserved for SCs, STs and OBCs.
 
 “Since tourism minister Manohar Azagaonkar raised questions about the roster for SC, ST and OBC jobs, we will see how many vacancies there are in each department which have not been filled,” Madkaikar said. “I have sought a report on this.” 
 
 The minister also said that around 4,000 sq m of land lying with Goa   had been identified as a suitable location for the proposed  . He said that the department had already written to the Board asking for the land to be transferred.
 
 “On April 20, Goa Housing Board will have a meeting and if they decide to transfer the land to us, then we can quickly take the issue to the cabinet for approval,” Madkaikar said.
 
 He added that he had already asked chief secretary Dharmendra Sharma for help in acquiring funds to build Ambedkar Bhavan. 
 
 “He said that by making a provision in the next budget, we could start construction. If things fall into place, then before the next Ambedkar Jayanti, we will lay the foundation stone for the Ambedkar Bhavan,” Madkaikar said.
 
 
