BENGALURU: For the first time in three decades,   will go into assembly elections in the absence of a wave in favour of or against a particular party. There is also no major issue that can become a poll plank.

  
 In the run-up to elections, the ruling   has been highlighting its achievements, misdeeds of the previous BJP government and purported failure of Prime Minister   in fulfilling his poll promises. The BJP, meanwhile, is banking on Modi’s charisma.
 
 The JD(S) on the other hand is hoping to land the spoils with former chief minister and state party chief H D   whipping up regional sentiment and promising clean and inclusive governance. The party is also trying to revive the Third Front by aligning with the BSP, NCP and Left parties.
 
 But unlike in previous election, there is clearly a paucity of issues that could sway public sentiment. Many political pundits attribute the on-going verbal duel between the Congress and the BJP — catchy lines such as ‘10 percent Sarkar’, ‘Moun Modi, Bol Modi’ are being bandied about — to this factor.
 
 “This is the reason why the two national parties are indulging in verbal duels to take on each other and divert the attention of voters,” said Harish Ramaswamy, a political analyst.
 
 Right from 1985, all assembly elections had at least one issue which became the rallying point for political parties to sway voters. In 1989, the infighting in then ruling Janata Party and the subsequent split helped Congress win. In 1994, the   leaders regrouped under   and the leadership of H D Deve Gowda and emerged victorious by highlighting the infighting and corruption charges against the Congress government which saw three CMs in five years.
 
 In 1999, Congress returned to power under S M Krishna’s leadership, riding on the dissidence in the Janata Dal and the subsequent split of the party with factions headed by Deve Gowda and Ramakrishna Hegde.
 
 In 2004 though, the Congress government completed its tenure without any major charges of corruption and with programmes like mid-day meal scheme, the pro-urban image of Krishna. However, farmers reeling under three consecutive years of drought did it in.
 
 In 2008, the BJP, riding on the plank of breach of promise by Kumaraswamy in transferring power to Yeddyurappa, helped the BJP win with a simple majority. But a series of corruption charges against the BJP government saw three CMs in five years. Yeddyurappa and Sriramulu then defected while the issue of illegal mining and denotification helped the Congress capture power in 2013.
 
 
 
