NEW DELHI: A   team visited some of the   in the   recently on Delhi high court’s orders. The team was accompanied by the court-appointed amicus curiae   and the petitioner as well. TOI   along with the team. 

 The team was led by commissioner Madhup Vyas and deputy commissioner Ruchika Katyal. The first stop was the Haksar Haveli, which is better known locally as Nehru haveli. The original structure is no longer present, just old lakhori brick walls. Five different shops are operating from there. A multi-storey building covered with tarpaulin sheet right next to the site has become a contentious plot.  , the owner of this property located near Sadak Prem Narayan said they were being unnecessarily targeted. “Why pick on just these properties? If the petitioner is so interested in heritage, why don’t they help in redeveloping the Haksar Haveli, which contains tonnes and tonnes of rubble? We will help them,” Mueed said. The builder has been booked for violation.
 
 Down the road on Katra Dinanath near Chowasi Ghanta Mandir, a seven-storey building is coming up at ‘Rajmahal’ where once there were old structures with “mihrabs and jaalis”. The owner who didn’t wish to be named said the old building had kuchha construction and it had become too dangerous. But he didn’t answer why he was building seven floors. 
 
 A large number of houses in the neighbourhood have similar violations. Corporation officials from City-Sadar Paharganj zone said they would keep track of the violations. “Action under DMC Act has already been initiated against all these eight properties. Some have been ‘booked’ while demolition notices have been issued to others. We had carried out demolitions on March 16 as large scale unauthorised construction was going on there,” an official said. 
 
 At places, the team was surrounded by locals who also resorted to sloganeering. 
 
 Aggarwal said he was satisfied with the inspection. “The commissioner has now seen the construction and he has to take action as per the file on a case by case basis. At some properties he was little afraid that commotion may happen but that is understandable considering the environment,” Aggarwal said, adding that the team had also taken notice of the rampant unauthorised constructions at other properties and the court would be informed accordingly. “Taking action against a few properties here and there will not solve the problem. The court will have to go to the root cause of the problem,” Aggarwal said. 
 
 Sanjay Bhargava, president of  , spoke about the urgent need of action against rampant unauthorised constructions ruining Walled City’s heritage. “We have always been after Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Corporation to stop this. All the havelis are being destroyed, and the builder lobby is hand in glove with the corporation,” Bhargava said
 
 He added, “Foreigners don’t come to see CP-like markets but places like Chandni Chowk. But look at the mess.” 
 
 
