After mesmerising the audience with his social drama ‘Toilet: Ek Prem Katha’,   is back with yet another thought-provoking film ‘PadMan’ that deals with menstruation and sanitary hygiene. And the film is already garnering appreciations from all quarters. According to report in BoxofficeIndia.com, the Akshay Kumar,   and   starrer collected Rs. 10 crore nett approximately on its first day. 

 
  
 It is based on the short story The Sanitary Man of Sacred Land in  's book The Legend of Lakshmi Prasad, which is inspired by the life of Arunachalam Muruganantham, a social activist from Tamil Nadu who introduced low-cost sanitary pads. Despite promoting the film extensively, the   directorial had to change its original release date, courtesy Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s ‘Padmaavat’, whose release reportedly shuffled all the other movies in the row. Initially scheduled to be released on January 26, 2018, the film was already clashing with Neeraj Pandey’s ‘Aiyaary’ and the supposed release of ‘Padmaavat’ meant three big films clashing on the same day. 
 
 
 While makers of ‘Aiyaary’ shifted their release date to February 9, Akshay maintained their date initially. However, on Bhansali’s request the Khiladi Kumar agreed to delay his film paving way for his magnum opus. 
 
 Right from distributing sanitary napkins to school children to arranging for a special screening for I&B minister Smriti Irani to initiating #PadManChallenge wherein he asked his fellow actors from the industry to post a picture with a sanitary pad, the makers of the film left no stone unturned to promote the film and at the same time to create awareness about the very subject of their film. 
 
 
 
 While the film has opened to good reviews from audience and critics alike, it just hit a roadblock with Akshay Kumar being accused of plagiarism. Ripu Daman Jaiswal has accused the makers of ' ' of taking scenes in the film from a script he had written. The writer has filed an FIR against Akshay Kumar and he alleges that he had sent a script to Karan Johar's Dharma Productions and scenes in the film have been lifted from his story.
 
