NEW DELHI: The police has filed an   in connection with the alleged   on   Anshu Prakash at chief minister Arvind   on Monday night. The police have invoked  , including hatching a criminal conspiracy and assaulting and threatening a public servant. The FIR has been filed against Okhla MLA   and “others”. 

 Delhi Police chief spokesperson Dependra Pathak said the FIR was filed on the basis of a complaint given by Prakash in the north district. “A cognizable offence was made out and a case was registered,” he said. Apart from section 120 B that pertains to criminal conspiracy, the police have invoked sections related to wrongful confinement (342), attacking and obstructing a public servant (186/353), assaulting a public servant while on duty (332), intentional insult with intent to cause breach of trust (504), common intention (34) and criminal intimidation (506). 
 
  
  
 
 Sources say the CS can be requested to identify the “others” in a test identification parade. He has said that he recognised only Amanatullah among the persons present there but can identify the others. The sections invoked in the FIR indicate that the police will probe the role and involvement of everyone present at the spot. The CCTV footage of Kejriwal’s residence has been sought and statement of witnesses and those present there will be recorded. One footage released by Kejriwal’s office shows Prakash walking out of the CM’s residence.
 
  
  
 
 
 Prakash has given a detailed complaint to the cops. “Yesterday, I was informed on telephone around 8.45pm by the advisor to CM, V K Jain, that I have to reach the CM’s residence at 12 midnight to discuss with the chief minister and deputy chief minister the issue of difficulty in release of certain TV advertisements relating to completion of three years of the current government in Delhi. I suggested that the meeting could be held on February 20 in the morning. However, it was reiterated by the advisor to the CM at 9pm and again around 10pm that the meeting has been scheduled by CM at 12 midnight.”
 
 He says he had received a call from deputy CM Manish Sisodia around 6.55pm who had told him that if the matter of TV advertisements was not resolved by the evening, then he should reach the CM’s residence at 12 midnight to discuss the issue. He claims he had explained earlier that any advertisement to be released should not be in contravention of Supreme Court guidelines. “The advisor to CM again called me at around 11.20pm...Thereafter, I left my residence in my official car and driver along with my PSO and reached the CM’s residence at midnight,” reads the complaint.
 
 He says the CM and deputy CM, besides 11 MLAs/persons, were present in the front room. “The CM told me that they were MLAs and had come to ask him about the government’s publicity programme,” he said. “One of the MLAs firmly shut the door of the room. I was made to sit between Amanatullah Khan and another MLA on a three-seater sofa. The CM directed me to answer the MLAs and explain the reason for delay in release of TV campaign,” he recalled. He then pointed to the SC guidelines.
 
 “The MLAs started shouting at me and abused me while blaming me and the bureaucracy for not doing enough for publicity of the government. One MLA, whom I can identify, threatened that I would be confined in the room for entire night unless I release the TV campaign. A threat was made that I will be implicated in false cases, including under the SC/ST Act. The MLAS whom I can identify became more abusive and aggressive, extending a threat to my life,” he alleged.
 
 “Suddenly Amanatullah Khan and the person/MLA on my left side, whom I can identify, without any provocation started hitting and assaulting me. They hit several blows with fists on my head and temple. My spectacles fell to the ground, I was in a state of shock. With difficulty, I was able to leave the room and get into my official car and leave. At no stage did I retaliate and provoke any person present in the room despite confinement, criminal intimidation, extending threat to life and assault by several MLAs while I was discharging my official duties. None of the persons made any attempt to save me,” he said.
 
 “I request you to take action as per law as the assault was premeditated and in conspiracy of all present with intention to criminally intimidate, cause hurt with motive to deter me from discharge of my lawful duty and compel me to follow unlawful directions. None of the persons present in the room made any efforts to save me.” he added.
 
 
