' ' hits the screens today. Find out more about the people who are a part of  's journey

 
 
 People have been asking how it was to play a Pakistani officer in 'Raazi', and I ask them, does his nationality really matter? This role was challenging, not because I was playing someone from Pakistan, but because he was a strong and layered character. He is a loyal friend who agrees to marry his son to his friend’s daughter in Kashmir. He is a loving father-in-law and a dutiful officer. Right from the time this man meets  , and brings Sehmat home as his daughter-in-law, to when he discovers there was a spy under his own nose, there are different layers to this character. When you tell people that you are playing a Pakistani officer, they think it is a negative character as that is the common perception. For the very first time, a Pakistani family, a Pakistani officer, have not been portrayed in a negative way.
  
  
 
 
  
 
  Hidayat connects you emotionally to the story, and this girl’s journey. Since he was so well explained on paper, I didn’t have to read anything more about him. I hardly had any questions in my mind about why he sent his daughter to Pakistan to replace him. We haven’t seen things like war and the Partition, but people who have been through that must have made tough decisions of sacrificing a family member to complete the task that was above every emotion and relationship. This film is a tribute to sacrifices that people have made that are not known to us. When I think of Hidayat, I feel it must have been a tough call for him to send his daughter. If I was in that situation I don’t know what I would have done.
  
  
 
 
 
 
 I researched a lot for Raazi. I saw   videos on YouTube. Koi reference hai nahi uske alawa. Meghna ji was very clear about handling the whole thing very sensitively. She wanted everything to be very real because this movie was based on actual reports. It had to be truthfully portrayed. Just because Mehboob is a Pakistani officer, doesn’t mean he has to be a villain. He doesn’t have to be cruel or conniving. He is a normal person, the kind we find in our country too. So, it’s an   family that happens to be Pakistani. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 The most beautiful thing about Iqbal’s character is that it breaks the mould of a Pakistani Army officer which we are conditioned to know through past films.When you think of a Pakistani Army man, you think of this huge, well-built, shrewd, fanatic kind of guy, Iqbal is not that. He is an Army officer, but he is also a gentleman with a soft heart. In every frame, the way he looks, the way he talks, there is thehraav; that I felt was a beautiful contradiction for an Army man to have. That was the most appealing part of playing Iqbal for me. It was very important for me to know Iqbal as a human being because a lot had to be expressed without talking. The way he looks at Sehmat mattered because that reveals how he feels about his wife, about his country, how he reacts to situations. To live the gentleness of Iqbal on screen was beautiful. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 When Meghna told me about this story and about playing an intelligence officer in the film, I found it very interesting. You rarely get a chance to play such a character and Mir is relevant to the story. He is a very intelligent man,he has to be in that zone where he cannot express his emotions or how attached he is to Sehmat. He has to be very strict with her because of his duties as an officer. Meghna once told me that ‘I never want to know who the real Mir is.’ No one wants to know what he is thinking or how he is emotionally connected to Sehmat. His goals are bigger than his personal emotions. Like he says in the film, ‘jung mein koi cheez maayne nahi rakhti, na tum na main.’
  
  
 
 
 
