PATNA: The opposition RJD, Congress and CPI(ML) created a ruckus in the state assembly on Monday, demanding compensation to farmers for their maize crop failure and arrest of Union ministers Ashwini Kumar Choubey and Giriraj Singh for their alleged bid to communalize the situation in Bhagalpur and Darbhanga, respectively, for two separate reasons.

 Speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary adjourned the House proceedings in both the session as the Rs122.69 crore budgetary demand of the transport department for 2018-19 was passed without a debate.
 
 While the question hour was completely washed away, none of the opposition members listed to move the cut motion on the budgetary demand of the transport department did it to initiate the House debate. The ruckus began in the pre-lunch session soon after the Speaker administered the oath of House membership to Rinki Rani Pandey, the BJP’s newly elected member from Bhabhua.
 
 Earlier, the RJD members had created noisy scenes in the portico over the provocative post on the social media during the victory procession of Pandey. The post read ‘Shudra people leave India’. After Pandey’s oath, the opposition members entered the well of the House shouting slogans against the government.
 
 The name of Arjit Shashwat, son of Union minister Choubey, has figured in one of the two FIRs for taking out an unauthorized motorcycle procession while playing controversial songs in the Muslim locality at Nathnagar on the outskirts of Bhagalpur town on the occasion of New Year celebration as per the Vikram Samvat of the Hindu calendar on Sunday. That disturbed social harmony, leading to exchange of brickbats in which three persons, including two constables, were injured. 
 
 Giriraj was at Darbhanga in a protest demonstration against the killing of Ram Chandra Yadav (70) and causing injury to his son   (41), a BJP member, by a group of people with sharp weapons allegedly over the christening of a chowk in the name of PM  . Even as slogan shouting was done by those in the procession, RJD alleged Singh was seen in a video inciting people to raise slogans against the ‘DSP’.
 
 While the district police and deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi attributed the Darbhanga killing to a land dispute, Giriraj alleged that administrative explanation was aimed at deflecting attention from the main issue.
 
 
