NEW DELHI: A 14-year-old boy and a 15-year-old girl committed suicide at their respective homes on Tuesday after   Class X results were declared. Both were disappointed with their performances, police said. 

 DCP (Dwarka) Shibesh Singh said the boy was identified as Rohit Kumar Meena. He was found hanging in his room in Bharat Nagar, Dwarka, in the afternoon. Police said they learnt about it when the boy was admitted to a private hospital at 3.45pm. The boy was declared brought dead. The police took the body for autopsy. No suicide note was found on the body. 
 
  
  
 Meena studied in a private school in Sector-13 and had checked his exam   online from home at 1.25pm. He was disappointed. “His brother was there with him and had told him not to think much about the result. But the boy was sad and he hanged himself with a chunni after his brother left the room. 
 
 In the second incident, a 15-year-old girl from Vasant Kunj was found hanging in her room. She wanted to pursue science but didn’t get the desired marks. She was very depressed and hanged herself from a ceiling fan. Her family members rushed her to a hospital where she was also declared brought dead. No suicide note was found on her either. 
 
 DCP (southwest) Milind Dumbere said the body was sent for autopsy. Inquest proceedings under Section 174 of CrPC were initiated. 
 
 The two incidents have again revived the debate over peer   having a negative effect on children. Dr Smita Deshpande, head of department of psychology at the Centre of Excellence in Mental Health, RML Hospital, however, said results may not have been the only reason driving the two children to suicide. 
 
 “Usually it’s the sum of a number of factors that plays into the mind of a youth, including depression,” she said. 
 
 Deshpande said suicidal thoughts are rampant among adolescents as they go through a number of changes, both mental and physical. Dr  , director of the department of mental health and behavioural sciences,  , said, “Adolescent suicides are regular. Children perceive poor marks as failure and feel exceptionally inferior. They don’t understand that poor marks are not the end.” 
 
 The experts said the right way to go about it is to tell children that suicide is a wrong step. Parikh said he gets several hundred calls on the Fortis helpline from people needing such kind of help. 
 
 Deshpande said it’s important for parents to tell their children to be optimistic. 
 
 Delhi has several suicide helplines like 1 Life and Sumaitri that have been functional for years.
 
 
