MADURAI: Sugarcane business in the district, which reaches its peak during Pongal when the chewing variety flood the markets, has seen a sharp fall in supply and good quality canes hard to find. With the canes selling for more than previous years, consumers are feeling the pinch.

 Many markets in Madurai and trading areas like Yannaikkal, South Gate, East Gate and   thrive with roadside vending of the canes, which are used to decorate homes and later consumed. “As it is sweet and succulent, sugarcane on the doorstep is expected to bring prosperity,” said Rani Thangaraj of South Gate. Hence, sugarcanes are a part and parcel of the Pongal festivities.
 
 P  , who has been dealing with sugarcane for the past 40 years in the wholesale market in Yannaikkal said that this year the supply has come down drastically. “Usually, we get about hundred trucks each bringing about 10 tonnes of sugarcane, but now we have been getting only 20 to 30 trucks coming to the market for the past three days,” he said. “Prevailing drought has hit the cultivation badly and also the quality of the canes,” he added.
 
 The chewing variety of sugarcane is cultivated in Navinipatti, Thaniamangalam, Sathamangalam, A   and   in Melur area in the district. It is also cultivated in Meenakshipuram, Arumbanur, Kallanthiri and Mangulam in   block. They find a good market in Madurai itself
 
 Kamaraj says that this was an agricultural crop which thrived in this region and even a decade ago, the Pongal market had canes which were not less than an average seven feet tall. Smaller canes never came to the market. “But, now the seven feet sugarcane has become rare and not even a tonne is coming to market,” he said.
 
 The ones that are coming now range from three to five feet and while the three to three and a half feet ones sell at Rs 250 per bundle of 15 in the wholesale market, those that are six feet and above are fetching Rs 500.
 
 But, in the retail market, a single cane is selling for not less than Rs 25 if its three feet or less in height. The bigger ones are selling at Rs 60 to Rs 80 per cane. 
 
 V  , a farmer from  , this season is sweeter than last year’s, but the area of cultivation has gone down due to prevailing drought conditions. They would have done much better if they had got irrigation water from the Periyar dam on time.
 
 Sugarcane production had come down in Melur and Madurai east block, from about the original 900 to just 450 acres this season. Farmers who spent on irrigation were able to grow with more number of nodes to about seven feet in height which were fetching Rs 5,500 for a load of 300 sugarcanes. But, the smaller sugarcanes were fetching only Rs 2,200 for a load, so they are making less profit, as every farmer spent Rs 1.25 lakh as cultivation cost per acre, he said. Azhagan also added that while the bigger canes were bringing about Rs 1.25 lakh profit, the smaller ones were getting only Rs 30,000 or less profit.
 
 
