Gurgaon: Around two months after opening its office in Gurgaon, Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority (Hrera) is going to start its grievance redress process by holding the first   of complaints on March 27. 

 The authority will hold hearing from Tuesday to Thursday every week, according to sources.
 
 Till now, the real estate regulator has registered 99 complaints — mostly related to delay in possession — submitted by  , which will be taken up for hearing in phases. In the first hearing, complaints on registration of real estate projects will be taken up. “The second hearing will be organised in the first week of April,” said Hrera (Gurgaon) chairman KK Khandelwal, adding that they would take up buyers’ complaints on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. 
 
 Monday is reserved for preparation of the hearing, and on Saturday they will upload the decisions taken in the hearing in that week.
 
 Hrera, Gugaon, became functional on February 5 after 75 complaints were submitted by homebuyers in Panchkula. Of the 75 complaints, nine complaints were in proper format, while remaining 66 complaints were returned to the buyers, asking them to file them in the prescribed format. In Gurgaon, Hrera has received 90 complaints since February 5.
 
  “A total of 99 complaints of buyers, which were in proper format, were registered and notices were issued to respondents concerned,” said Khandelwal, adding that they would take up 10-15 complaints in one hearing.
 
 Elaborating on filing of complaints, Khandelwal said complainants should register their grievances on the authority’s website before submitting the same to it in a prescribed format. “After registering a complaint on the website, a complainant will have to file it before the authority in person with list of dates, brief facts, issues to be decided, relief sought and affidavit,” Khandelwal said, adding that the complaint would get a registration number. A complaint will be taken up for hearing in the serial order of registration numbers.
 
 Hrera had promised to decide on a complaint in 60 days. “We will decide on the case in 60 days of its hearing,” said Khandelwal. He also said notices would be sent to respondents withiin 21 days of hearing. The respondents will have to file replies on facts alleged by complainants, relief sought, any additional facts in their knowledge and any other submission they have to make along with evidence.
 
 
