DEHRADUN: Based on the directions of the   high court, Rajpur police has registered a case against a teacher of   of Visually Handicapped (NIVH) for allegedly sexually exploiting his minor students. The high court had on Wednesday directed the DGP to file a case against   teacher   for allegedly sodomising an 11-year-old student of the institute. The court also ordered the NIVH administration to immediately suspend the teacher till the inquiry is completed.
 
  Rajpur station officer Arvind Singh said, “We have registered a case against Ramesh Chandra Kashyap under section 5/6 of POCSO Act based on a complaint lodged by the NGO Bachpan Bachao Andolan. We are investigating the case and will take necessary action based on the findings.”
  
  Talking to TOI, Anuradha Dalmia, director of NIVH, said, “We had already submitted the inquiry report to Rajpur police on May 14. However, based on the advice of our legal experts, we submitted it again to   on May 23. The teacher has been suspended already.”
  
  TOI had in its edition dated May 21, prominently highlighted the case which had come to light following a recent inquiry by the   (UCRC). The commisssion had found that Ramesh Chandra Kashyap, working in the music department of NIIVH, had been involved in sexually assaulting his male students for almost a decade. The enquiry was conducted following a complaint to the commission by the father of a student a few weeks ago. In his complaint, he alleged that his son was twice sodomised by the teacher.
  
  The visually impaired student had also submitted his complaint to the institute in which he gave specific instances of the assault. “On February 13 while returning from Jaipur by train, my music teacher thought that I was asleep and assaulted me sexually in the train. A similar incident happened on March 5 when I was called inside his room for practising music and was sexually assaulted by him again,” the student had alleged in his complaint.
  
  Following the complaint, the commission constituted an enquiry panel which found that the student’s allegations were true and the teacher had been involved in similar acts with other students as well for the past 10 years.
  
  TOI tried to contact the accused teacher for his version but despite repeated attempts, he could not be reached for comment.
