In the latest episode of  ,   throws the cake and blames   for getting cheated on by  . Aditya gets angry at Zoya for getting too personal and Zoya blames him for getting personal. Zoya further tells Aditya that she had no problem with him. She tells him that Pooja had planned the surprise birthday bash for him and she only fulfilled her last wish. 
 
 Zoya tells Aditya that Pooja loved him more than anyone else. As Aditya is about to leave, Zoya questions him that why he can't believe that Pooja did not cheat on him with Yash? Aditya gets angrier and shows her the pictures and says that Pooja and Yash had an affair. Aditya is stopped by his father who tells him to stop creating a scene. Aditya loses his calm and tells his father that he is having an affair and his father slaps him. 
  
 On the other hand,   wipes the drink that fell on the envelope and finds out that the envelope has some legal papers. In another scene, Sakshi reaches the spot and calls someone. She then receives orders to leave the money inside the car and walk away. Zoya keeps thinking that Yash stated that he only loved her. As she is returning home, Zoya gets kidnapped and as soon as she opens her eyes, she finds herself in a room filled with Yash and Pooja's intimate photos.
  
 Zoya sees the pictures and Aditya comes in the room. He then taunts Zoya and says that Yash betrayed her. Aditya tells Zoya that he has finally taken his revenge on her and Zoya leaves the room. Noor sees the divorce papers in the envelope and she immediately calls home. Yash's mother then shouts at Noor and she leaves in a hurry.
  
 Arjun is waiting for Aditya and as he returns he questions him for being late. Aditya breaks down and starts crying. He blames Zoya for creating a mess and tells Arjun that Pooja ruined his life. 
  
 Aditya states that his father had an affair and says that he left the house for other woman but later returned home after a few days. Aditya says that he hates cheaters and says that Pooja was the one who comforted him about his dad's affair, and now she was the one who cheated on him.
 
 
