Chandigarh: The Haryana state information commission (SIC) has imposed a fine of Rs 7,500 on deputy excise and taxation commissioner (DETC) Rewari for causing delay of 30 days in providing information under the RTI Act by misinterpreting the provisions of the law. State information commissioner Hemant Atri has passed these orders while observing that none of the information sought by the appellant was covered under the section 8 (exemptions from disclosures) of the RTI Act. 

 “This is a classic example of misinterpretation at every step by the respondent SPIO. The SPIO admitted that there was an inadvertent misinterpretation on his part and the same will not be repeated in future,” observed Atri, while imposing the fine on Dharambir Dahiya, SPIO-cum-DETC Rewari.
 
 Dahiya had not supplied the information despite the orders by the first appellate authority to provide information within seven days. While disposing of the matter, Atri has also given strict warning to the information officer that he should be more careful and cautious while handling and interpreting the RTI applications in future.
 
 One Shish Pal Yadav of Gurgaon had sought some information regarding Rewari excise department. Dahiya was the state public information officer (SPIO) under the RTI Act to provide information.
 
 SPIO, however, had failed to give information considering it relates to third party and was thus exempted under the Act. He even failed to supply the information despite the first appellate authority of the department directing him to provide information within seven days.
 
 Finally, Yadav approached the SIC Haryana against denial of information. 
 
 On March 19, 2018, the SIC had directed SPIO to provide complete information in an attested format free of cost to the appellant within 10 days. The commission had also issued show cause notice to the SPIO for not providing the information.
 
 When the matter came up for hearing on Thursday, commission was informed through audio-conference by the applicant that he had received the information on April 13, 2018, after the commission’s intervention. He claimed that the information was not furnished in time and it was furnished only after the sought information had outlived its utility as validity of the liquor vend was to expire on March 31, 2018.
 
 He requested that strict penal action be taken against the respondent SPIO for intentional delay of almost eight months. On this, the SIC imposed fine and warned Dhaiya to remain careful in future while dealing the RTI matters.
 
 
