NAGPUR: The HSC   paper on Monday was described as ‘easy’ by academicians, though many students differed.

 Sulabha  , who teaches political science at LAD College, said, “I am happy with the way   turned out to be. As expected, there were no out of the syllabus questions in the paper, so the passing percentage will be higher this time. Objective-type questions and the difference between Mandamus and Certiorari are a few parts which the students might have found challenging”.
 
 However, students thought the paper was challenging. Ananya Singh, said, “I found the paper really difficult to crack. Even though nothing was out of the syllabus and everything was taught to us, it was still tough to understand the questions. I found the language of the paper very tricky. I was not able to comprehend the questions, which took most of my time.”
 
 Student Roshini Bitale from Morris College had trouble deciphering the language of the paper. She said, “The syllabus of political science is very vast and we don’t get enough time to revise. The objectives and short answer-type questions were the easiest for me, but the last question was quite difficult and it took up a lot of my time. I found the paper very exhaustive”.
 
 According to experts, the choice amongst the questions was a boon to the otherwise extensive question paper. Kolhe said, “Students shouldn’t have any problem solving the paper as all the questions were from the textbook only and the ones they found difficult could be skipped because of ready choices.”
 
 There were a few students who were happy with the paper and thought it was easy. Morris College’s Pranjal Uikey said, “The paper was easy and I solved it up to my expectations. The only glitch in the otherwise smooth   was the third last question about regionalism. I was unable to structure my thoughts around it and that consumed a lot of time.”
 
 Paper rating
 
 Toughness: Medium
 
 Questions’ relevance: Straightforward
 
 Paper length: Lengthy
 
 Copying cases
 
  – 3
 
 Chandrapur – 0
 
 Nagpur- 0
 
 Wardha- 2
 
 Gadchiroli- 0
 
 Gondia- 0
 
 
