HOWRAH/NADIA: Men fled Kayalpara in   north a day after Trinamool and BJP supporters clashed on Monday after police slapped non-bailable charges, including sections of the Arms Act, on the four arrested — two from Trinamool and two from BJP. A police picket has been set up there to defuse the situation.

 Uluberia remained tense on Tuesday in an indication that Bengal is back on the violence path ahead of the Uluberia Lok Sabha bypoll on January 29. Unlike earlier, when clashes broke out mainly between   and Trinamool, BJP has adopted the Bengal model and thrown a challenge to Trinamool. 
 
 According to police, four persons — two each from BJP and Trinamool — have been arrested. Another two houses — were torched late at night, leaving four more injured.
 
 BJP and Trinamool supporters also clashed at Nadia’s Palashi soon after BJYM’s rally reached the spot from Krishnagar around 1.30pm. TMC members started waving black flags at the men on motorbikes with UP number plates. They raised slogans against   and hailed  .
 
 “Trinamool men attacked our party supporters with sticks bearing black flags. They broke the heads of two supporters. A female supporter was also injured,” said BJP Nadia north committee president Mahadeb Sarkar. 
 
 TMC Nadia president Gouri Dutta refuted the charge. “BJP has no presence in Bengal. Why should we spend time beating a dead horse?” he said. Angry at the police who were escorting the rally, some BJP supporters gave the cops chase. Police had a tough time tackling the rival groups for the next 15 minutes on NH 34.
 
 The news charged up the BJP meet at Bagnan in Uluberia south, 7km away from Kayalpara. “Uluberia will pave the way for BJP in Bengal. I appeal to you to vote for the party in the bypoll. A host of Trinamool leaders and minister are in touch with us. We will showcase them once we win the Uluberia polls,”   said. 
 
 Mocking Bengal   Summit, Ghosh said: “It has become an annual picnic organised by Mamata Banerjee. There were investment proposals for Rs 10,000 crore last year. None of these has materialised.”
 
 
