By: 
 

 SALIGAO/PANAJI: In the second such incident in less than a month of   attacking locals, three visitors from Surat allegedly attacked a taxi driver in Saligao, 15km from  , over a fare dispute. Police said Vinod Kudnekar was allegedly stabbed by one of the three tourists, while he was driving, and has been admitted to North Goa district hospital. The trio have been booked for attempt to murder.
 
 On Wednesday morning, the three accused, Sarvesh Rajkumar Singh, 20, Bhavesh Sohanlal Vyas, 20, and a minor, hired Kudnekar’s taxi at Baga to go to Ponda, police said.
 
 The incident occurred on the way back to Baga, at Grand Morod, Saligao.
 
 “Kudenkar had agreed to take them to Ponda for Rs 1,500,” police said.
 
 At Ponda, the trio told Kudnekar that they did not have the money to pay the fare and that they would borrow the sum from a friend, police said.
 
 Singh, who was seated on the front seat, called a friend to borrow money, but told Kudnekar that the friend was not answering the call and requested him to drop them off at a hotel in Old Goa where they wanted to stay, police said.
 
 The taxi driver then brought them to Old Goa and tried to locate the hotel. “When they could not locate the hotel, the taxi driver said he would drop them at Baga,” Saligao PSI Shrikant Pednekar, who is investigating the case, said.
 
 On the way to Baga, at Grand Morod, Saligao, Singh called his friend once again. Police said by now Kudnekar was irritated with the trio’s behaviour. “He snatched the cell phone from Singh’s hand and allegedly abused the three for not paying the fare,” police said.
 
 This agitated Singh, who then allegedly stabbed Kudnekar even as he was driving, police said, adding that they are yet to retrieve the knife used to attack the taxi driver.
 
 Kudnekar sustained injuries on his neck and hand and is out of danger, Pednekar said.
 
 “Locals at Grand Morod Saligao thrashed the trio before handing them over to police,” the PSI said.
 
 The minor has been sent to Apna Ghar, Merces, while the other two have been remanded in four-day police custody.
 
 Earlier this month, 15 Telangana tourists assaulted four locals in Calangute. One of the four, who was severely injured, died last week. The 15 tourists have been booked for murder.
 
 
