When you are in conversation with  , you can’t help but notice how his hands are busy drumming a beat or his fingers are snapping to a tune, even though you are fully aware that he’s answering your question in all earnestness. There’s an energy in his voice, and his love for music is evident in his statements. In a candid chat with us,   talks about making a comeback of sorts in Kollywood with Saamy², why music shouldn’t be classified into genres, and how he reacts to criticism, and more. Excerpts:

 
 Hari sir showed me the motion teaser immediately after the first few days of shoot. At that point, the graphic work was not done, and it was just on a green matte. I was excited because normally, people use existing clips from the film to make the motion poster. But Hari sir had especially shot for it. I was quite inspired and wanted to do something very symphonic. For a mass film with a mass hero, the background score is also usually massy, with urumi beats and all. But I wanted to do the exact opposite. When the statue is revealed,   is seen sitting like Ayyanar, and I wanted to use some divine text in that space. I was looking at getting a Sanskrit pundit to write some words for us. But then, Hari sir told me that he had used the Gayatri Mantra in the film. For someone who is trying to do something good, chanting this mantra is supposed to be good; it’s divine and powerful. So, we used the mantra in place of the gibberish lyrics I’d used to create the symphony, and we were thrilled that the mantra fit the metre perfectly. I guess some things are just meant to be.
 
 
 Music reduces stress and pressure. But if you feel the pressure while creating music, it means you are not doing it right. That said, working on sequels is generally challenging, even if you are doing all the films in the series. I’ve done so many sequels – Singam and Singam II, and Arya and Arya 2, Shankar Dada MBBS and Shankar Dada Zindabad in  ... When I did Gabbar Singh, people wanted to know what kind of song will I compose in place of Munni Badnaam Hui (from Dabangg; Gabbar Singh is a Telugu remake of the film). I came up with Kevvu Keka and and it became so popular that even filmmakers from Bollywood wanted to use that song. 
 
 
 I would love to make him sing, though we haven’t decided yet. Vikram is a good singer, and anything he sings will be catchy. In fact, I was the one who insisted that he sing all the songs in Kanthaswamy, and they all became popular. But for this film, it depends on what director sir has to say. Hari sir loves soft tunes; his taste in music is amazing, and whenever we come together, we’ll ensure there’s at least one ‘melody’. All the songs in this film will be new, in terms of approach, tune, voice and lyrics. 
 
 Similarly, after Aa Ante Amalapuram (Arya) became a chartbuster, everyone wanted me to deliver a bigger hit for Arya 2. Even Allu Arjun (who played the lead in the film) told me that it would not be possible to deliver a bigger hit than Aa Ante…, and that I shouldn’t get bogged down by the pressure. I asked everyone to just chill because I compose according to the story and don’t keep in mind if the film is a sequel or not. Each film has a story and that story will drive me towards the song. That same night, I came up with Ringa Ringa. I believe in working in the moment. You have to be honest to yourself, and appreciate music. If I like any song, I always call up the composer and tell them how much I loved it. I always tell Harris, Anirudh… I recently met Harris and we had a long chat. He had invited me to visit his studio when he had built it, and I told him I’d drop by this time. Interestingly, he did Si3 and now, I’m doing Saamy².
 
 
 No, not at all. Right from the beginning, I’ve been very selective in Kollywood. I pick and choose my projects. I’d love to do more work here, especially because Chennai is where I grew up in and it’s always fun to compose for films here. But I’m so tied up in Tollywood that I have to plan in advance. That’s why I wait for projects that really excite me to come my way.
 
 
 I feel that even in my peppiest song, there is always a melody. A real musician can never classify songs. Even in the softest songs of Michael Jackon, like They Don’t Really Care About Us, there’s a strong rhythm that will punch your heart, and lyrics that will touch your soul. In the language of music, melody actually means the tune. Any song that touches your heart is a good song. For instance,   (Manmathan Ambu) hardly has rhythm, but Madhavan tells me that he still cries whenever he listens to it. Usha Uthupji has told me that Kadhal Vandhale (Singam) is really popular even in Kolkata. Now, both of these are good songs. But, how will it be if I interchange the songs and situation? The same hero in a different film would behave differently and the orchestration has to be different, because it should depend on the story. For instance, I can make   for Ram Charan in Rangasthalam, but I can’t do that song for him in Yevadu. It’s funny when people ask me what I prefer, because there’s melody in everything.
 
 
 Once you start classifying, you will be stuck in predefined genres. Ilaiyaraaja sir is Ilaiyaraaja because he created something new. Azhudha oru maadhiriyana pattu podanum, siricha oru maadhiriyana pattu podanum-nu illama, he broke the grammar of music. Take for instance his Sorgame Endralum (Ooru Vittu Ooru Vanthu). He could have used it in Sindhu Bhairavi; K Balachander sir could have shot it with Sivakumar sir’s character on stage because the tune is such. But, he used it in a humour-infused way. When directors come to you, they say, Raaja sir maadhiri background score irukkanum. When you listen to Jackson’s song, you say, Jackson paatu maadhiriye illa. These are people who have crossed the boundaries of genre. There are genre-loving people, but as composers, we should not stick to one. In one of my shows in the US, I wanted to do a musical act based on the violin tune in Iddarammayilatho (starring Allu Arjun and Amala Paul) and auditioned over 30 violinists. I was playing the melodica and wanted a jazz artiste. While everyone said they needed a month to practice the tune because it had a classical touch, this girl, Norah, from Los Angeles, immediately got its nuance. It was one of my most memorable shows because there was an American girl playing an Indian song, giving it her own touch. Vera genre practice pannara artistes innoru genre try panninangana that makes for a beautiful fusion. We are in constant search of something new because entertaining people with music becomes our target. When you are a performer, people watch you for your performance. So, you keep practising what you know. But in the film industry, you have to discover and keep learning to create a new signature. But, in that process, you can’t lose yourself.
 
 
 I find pleasure in learning new things, but that search is not to impress people. Mandolin Shrinivas anna is my guru, and with the knowledge of what I learnt from him, I started playing the guitar. Though I never learnt it properly, I did the guitar backgrounds in movies like Puli and Rangasthalam. Music is a tool to rejuvenate you. I learn music for myself, and to become better. Composing can’t be learnt, it’s a creative process.
 
 
 Actually, no. The songs of Singam were a hit both in Tamil and Telugu, and we had released it at the same time. Ringa Ringa became popular in Telugu and it became successful here as well, even though it didn’t have a Tamil version. I got so many messages for my work in Rangasthalam and Bharat Ane Nenu from the Tamil film industry; Suriya sir sent long voice messages, and even pinpointed what he liked in the film. Today, the world has shrunk, and we have become close as a unit. So, the attitude of audience is also changing. I think one of the biggest advantages I have is that I know both the languages. When we came up with Aakalesthe Annam Pedatha (Shankar Dada Zindabad), Prabhudeva master asked me to hold the song because he wanted to use it for the film he was doing with Vijay. When we started work on the film (Pokkiri), Viveka sir had given me a lot of options. But I liked what he had discarded — Daddy mummy veetil illa, thada poda yarum illa. In Telugu, the concept was — Unakku pasicha naan saapadu poduven. And in Tamil, this was a typical item song. Because I know both the languages, it was easier for me to get the concept right. Even in Bollywood, I sat with the Hindi lyricist and worked on the lyrics of Daddy Mummy (Bhaag Johnny). 
 
 
 I keep getting offers, but I really haven’t been able to make time. In Bollywood, I feel that every film has songs composed by different music directors. But I am used to sitting with the director, understanding the story and then making music. I enjoy that process. How will it be if different writers script different scenes in a film? Or different directors helm different sequences in a film? I’m not used to that kind of working process. I would love to do Bollywood films, but I just need the right project. I’m doing over nine films in Telugu already, and I need to make more time.
 
 
