BENGALURU: Polling in Rajarajeswarinagar assembly constituency, deferred after the discovery of several voter identity cards (EPICs) in a flat, went off peacefully on Monday, barring a few minor incidents. Nearly 55 % of the 4.7 lakh electorate exercised their franchise.

 
 Alliance partners   and Janata Dal (Secular) are locked in a triangular contest with BJP. Sitting MLA N Muniratna of Congress, who is an accused in the voter ID case, is facing tough competition from JD(S) candidate GH Ramachandra, who had quit   to join the party just before polls were announced. BJP has fielded   as its candidate. In all, there are 14 candidates in the fray.
 
 The votes will be counted on Thursday (May 31). Chief electoral officer   said elaborate arrangements have been made at the counting centre set up at Sri Jnanakshi Vidyaniketan English school in  . “No major incidents were reported during polling. It was event-free and very disciplined,”   said.
 
 Unlike May 12, only a few incidents of malfunctioning of EVMs were reported. Polling was delayed by 10 minutes at a polling station in HMT Colony due to a minor technical glitch. Another minor incident of technical snag was reported from a polling station in Kempegowda Nagar in Laggare.
 
 Polling was brisk in the morning and long queues were seen in front of almost all polling stations in the constituency. Despite the Election Commission declaring a holiday in the constituency to ensure all voters exercise their franchise, many hit the polling stations early in the morning and voted before heading out to work. “My office is in Electronic City, and I did not get leave. Since I wanted to vote, I came to the polling station as early as possible,” said Usha R, who cast her vote at Rajarajeshwari Vidyashala polling booth.
 
 Of the 421 polling stations, 121 were webcast live, while four were pink stations, run entirely by women.
 
 “Casting my vote for the first time was a really great experience. I know that the results of the state elections are already out, but I still felt proud,” said Sanjana Patage, 18, a first-time voter.
 
 At the Mount Carmel English High School polling booth, Ganesh Iyer, 83, who is hard of hearing, was being led down the stairs by his wife Vijayalakshmi. There was no ramp at the booth. “We never miss any election, and think of voting as something to be proud of,” said Vijayalakshmi.
 
 A group of beggars residing in the Beggars Rehabilitation Centre voted too: over 300 of the 850 inmates lined up at a polling station in Srinivasa Nagar.
 
 R Ashoka, former deputy CM and senior BJP legislator, actor Ganesh and his producer-wife Shilpa, actors   and Suchendra Prasad, actors Malavika Avinash and husband Avinash and actor Amulya, who is the daughter-in-law of BJP candidate Ramachandra, also voted.
 
 
