Even after a whole week,   is still running to packed theatres across AP and Telangana and is being hailed as the most successful film in Tollywood after Baahubali. And the Mythri Movie Makers’ founders — Naveen Yerneni, Ravi Shankar Yalamanchili and CV Mohan — are on cloud nine. “When Sukumar narrated the story we knew then itself that the film would become a huge hit,” beams Ravi. “While we all knew that it was a great story, midway through the shoot we realised what we had in our hands was magical content,” adds Naveen. CV Mohan nods in agreement saying, “While we never really worried about the film’s success, we never expected to receive so much love from the audience. It’s overwhelming.” 
The success of the film was a result of great team work says the trio. “Not just us, the director, actors, technicians, everyone completely believed in the film and gave it our best. Music director Devi Sri Prasad worked on the re-recording of the one minute teaser for two whole days. Lyricist Chandrabose too put in his blood and soul. Fight masters Ram-Lakshman too took care to get all the minute details right, which 
 is why the stunts look so realistic. This is hands down Ram Charan’s best performance till date and Sukku’s best story. Even the dialogues of the film are so beautiful and memorable. Everyone put in their heart and soul into the film and created magic onscreen,” explains Ravi, adding, “No one will believe that the film had 52 minutes of CGI (computer generated imagery). The CG team has done such a good job of it that it all looks so seamless.” 
 The music made the film all the more memorable says Mohan: “When we were shooting for Rangamma Mangamma song in Rajahmundry itself I told Charan garu that it will be a chartbuster. When he asked why, I told him it’s because the lines are unforgettable. All the songs in the film struck a chord with the audience, Yentha Sakkagunnave was the crowd favourite.”
 For   this is the third consecutive hit for their production house after Srimanthudu and Janatha Garage. “Rangasthalam is not just a hit, it’s a blockbuster worldwide,” gushes Mohan. “We can’t express in words how proud and happy that makes us. We’re very thankful to everyone involved in the project,” adds Ravi. “Doing three huge films with three big stars is not easy and for all three of them to become blockbusters is a real rare occurrence,” beams Naveen. The producers say they will strive hard to live up to the standards they have set for themselves. “We have more responsibility on our shoulders now that the public expectations from our banner have increased manifold. We will strive to choose only the best,” says Mohan. 
 They have a slew of big ticket films lined up —– Naga Chaitanya’s Savyasachi set for release on June 14. Srinu Vaitla’s Amar Akbar Anthony 
 starring Ravi Teja which is presently being filmed in US. “We also have another film lined up with the Mass Maharaja,” adds Mohan. “We are confident that our success streak will continue in our 
 banner,” adds Ravi signing off. 
 
 
