Vijayawada: Deaths along   tracks within the Vijayawada railway division - be it suicides, murders or freak accidents - have seen a big spurt in the recent past, say railway officials.

 On an average, the Vijayawada Government Railway Police (GRP) is recovering at least one body every three days from the railway tracks under its area of operation.
 
 Speaking to TOI, KV Mohan Rao, superintendent of Vijayawada railway police, admitted that there has been an increase in unnatural deaths within Vijayawada railway police limits. It is pertinent to note that the Vijayawada railway police limits does not include just the city railway station alone but also 160 other stations under various categories.
 
 “More than suicides, we are noticing that there has been an increase in the number of railway accidents where passengers fall off moving trains or end up getting run over by trains while carelessly crossing the tracks,” Mohan Rao told TOI. 
 
 Another tough task that police face regularly is the challenge of handling unclaimed and unidentified bodies that are found at railway tracks and other places within their jurisdiction. Officials say there are no takers for around 40% of the bodies found on railway tracks in Andhra Pradesh. Mohan Rao said the increase in unidentified bodies is normally due to passengers travelling on long distance trains from which they fall off, causing instantaneous death as well as injuries that mutilate the body beyond recognition and make it near-impossible for police to identify the body. 
 
 “A lot of these people belong to other states and in some cases, while the bodies are identified, due to poverty and other factors the family members do not come to collect it as it is financially unviable,” Mohan Rao said. 
 
 Police face a daunting task while recovering certain bodies in remote parts of Vijayawada railway division. Senior officials say they had recovered bodies from drains near the railway track and due to the lack of transportation at the premises, they would wrap the decomposed body with a cloth and carry it for around 2km towards a road and later transport it in an autorickshaw to a local government hospital for post-mortem. 
 
 Police are not authorised to clear the body for post-mortem unless they identify it and get the approval from family members. Official sources say they can keep the body for three days in the mortuary before burying them. GRP found a couple of suicide cases where relatives refuse to claim the bodies and abandon them with the police. This is common in the case of suicides. Under these circumstances, local NGOs pitch in to conduct the last rites for the bodies.
 
 
