MUMBAI: A group of Parsis has moved the Bombay high court to challenge work on the underground Colaba-BandraSEEPZ Metro-III corridor, which goes directly under two Atash Behrams, both heritage sites, at the junction of Princess Street and   in south Mumbai. 

 
 The petition wants the court to intervene and prevent any drilling work, and has sought a realignment of the underground Metro route. 
 
 The petitioners fear that “the proposed work, in its current form, will lead to desecration of the holy consecrated fires”, as well as threaten the structural safety of heritage buildings and may cause the holy wells in the Atash Behrams to run dry. 
 
 The petitioners include prominent personalities like structural engineer  , senior solicitor Berjis Desai, Zarathusthrian scholar priest   and two trustees of Shah Varzaavand Trust, a public charitable trust. 
 
 Their counsel Shyam Mehta moved the vacation bench of Justices Shahrukh Kathawalla and   on Monday and citing urgency sought a stay on the drilling work. 
 
 He said that the work—it was stopped after a slab collapsed in Jer Mahal building-—may start anytime soon. The bench posted the matter to Wednesday when the state, Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority and Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation Ltd will be present for the hearing. The Parsi trustees are invoking their fundamental right to equality and right to life, as well as of religious freedom under Article 25 and protection of rights of minority under Article 29 of the Constitution. 
 
 The Colaba-Bandra-SEEPZ Metro-III corridor has been proposed to run under  , which is home to a number of heritage structures, including two of the most holy Zoroastrian fire temples of the highest degree (Atash Behrams), HB  , consecrated in 1830, and  , consecrated in 1897. 
 
 They are the only two out of eight Atash Behrams in India and hold “tremendous spiritual significance for Zoroastrians” stated the petition. The petition pointed out that JSS Road is a very congested and the condition of several buildings lining it, poor. 
 
 It cited a pre-construction building condition survey report for Metro-III of March 2017 which lists over 50 buildings to be at risk and records that the structural health of Wadia Atash Behram is “general unsatisfactory”. “Damage can happen either during the construction phase or even during the running of the Metro trains directly under these heritage buildings over a period of time. Further, damage to the sanctum sanctorum itself and the holy consecrated Atash Behram fire cannot be ruled out. 
 
 Any damage or destruction of the Holy Atash Behrams will devastate religious sentiments of Zoroastrians worldwide,” stated the petition
 
