CHANDIGARH: Three heritage trees, one of them nearly 200 years old, are dying a slow death in Chandigarh. The UT administration had declared 31 trees in Chandigarh as heritage in December 2017, and these three trees - two peepal trees in sectors 9 and 24, and a mango tree in Sector 19 - were a part of this list. 

 However, nearly four months on, these three trees are in a pitiable condition and crying for attention. While the peepal tree in Sector 9 has been infested by mealybugs, the tree in Sector 24 is turning hollow from inside as a large number of parrots have made it their home.
 
 The mango tree, located at  , is dying too. "Every heritage tree in Chandigarh is in a pitiable condition and requires attention, but these three need immediate care," said city-based environmentalist Rahul  .
 
 Mahajan said the tree in Sector 24 was located at   and was almost 200 years old. "Its branches are going dry," he added.
 
 Mahajan said though officials took action and sprayed medicine on the tree infested by mealybugs, they should have taken precautions to ensure nothing of such sort should have happened in the first place. "If they would have taken care of the tree in Sector 9 in December by wrapping polythene around it, mealybugs would not have attacked it," he said.
 
 Mahajan said authorities should maintain a logbook of all heritage trees. The 31 identified heritage trees are not the only ones in the city, he added. "The authorities should maintain a record of the type of heritage trees, the threats they face, and the time when they have to be sprayed," he said. "A nodal officer should be appointed for keeping a track of the health of these trees."
 
 There were hundreds of trees that were old but the home secretary had stated that declaring so many trees as heritage at once would not be feasible and so he had asked for a list of some of the oldest and important trees. So it was in the month of May 2017 that members of NGO Yuvsatta, Chandigarh tree lovers (CTL) and TOI collaborated to identify and highlight the oldest and most magnificent trees standing erect in Chandigarh.
 
 UT director environment   said mealybug was definitely a problem, but it would not damage the tree permanently. "The horticulture department should, though, take preemptive action as prescribed in the greening action plan. I will ask staffers concerned to take action on Wednesday," he said.
 
 Though hundreds of trees had been identified as heritage, the administration had finalized only 31 and had said more of them would be declared heritage later on. At that time, the UT environment department had said the tourism department would organise heritage walks along these trees to educate and sensitise people. It had also said the engineering department and municipal corporation would not cut and prune these trees without prior approval of the administration.
 
 
