Falling in love and being loved back is a feeling that everyone wants to experience in their lives. The initial craze of falling head-over-heels in love with someone makes one do various adorable and at times wacky things — ranging from surprise visits at the workplace to calling the other person in the middle of the night — but there is a fine line between love and  . And once that line is crossed, take it as a sign that it is time to scoot.

  
 
 
  Making someone the centre of your world feels great to read in mush romances in books and see in movies on the big screen, however, in reality it is often seen as an unhealthy way to develop a relationship. Such behaviour is often dismissed as obsessive, which can sometimes have a dark ring to it, if it’s not nipped at the right time.
 
  “Obsession is an intrusive thought, an addiction or fixation in a person’s mind, which tends to modify their behaviour into compulsion. This could be about achieving something or someone or show repetitive patterns,” explains Neeta Shetty, a city-based psychotherapist.
 
  Obsessive love is often claustrophobic for the person at the receiving end of it. “Obsessional love involves persistent thoughts of the love object and the desire to spend every moment with that person, no matter what. Healthy relationships allow both people to feel loved, cared for and respected; it does not restrict a person’s individuality and pursuit of their own professional lives, recreational activities and friendships outside of the love relationship. This is not seen when a person gets obsessive about another, but every small sign is taken as an intended slight; the person starts getting nervous, anxious, over possessive and sometimes, aggressive,” explains psychiatrist Kersi Chavda.
 
  
 
 
  “Love is at an emotional level and two-sided, whereas obsession is not emotional, it’s just like addiction where he/she feels that he can’t live without that person,” explains Professor Dr Sagar Karia.
 
  However, there are more ways to know if you’re in a relationship that is not healthy in the long run. For one, watch out for the power play or control patterns being exhibited by a partner. “A healthy love relationship usually evolves over time so much so that it no longer involves the desperate intensity experienced in the initial stages of romance,” says Dr Chavda, elaborating, “Healthy love tends to mature over the years to include commitment, friendship and a solid respect for the other person as an individual. The person who suffers from obsessive love tends to want to spend excessive time with their love object, such that they think excessively about and engage in behaviours that put them in touch with their love object to an extreme degree. They may engage in less recreational activities or other social aspects of his/her life, to the extent of not being able to work. A person who loves obsessively may engage in psychological control, or other forms of control, in an effort to keep their love object close. Examples of that include controlling money or food and in extreme cases, stalking or even using violence.” 
 
  
 
 
  First, one needs to see whether he/she has any psychiatric comorbidity like schizophrenia or delusional disorders etc. If yes, treating that is important. Counselling him/her will also play a big role in tackling this problem. Make them aware of their actions and help them undertake behaviour therapies to counter them. In extreme cases, we need to restrain them by admission, which could result in them serving time in jail for their obsessive demeanour. Medicines can also help in controlling impulsive behaviour, anger outburst, depression or frustration which the   might have.
 
  “The treatment of obsessive love often involves psychotherapy for the sufferer and for their love object, particularly if the two people are currently in a relationship with each other. Counselling can help and may involve helping both people visualise their relationship in a healthier manner, as well as using affirmations and other techniques to enhance their self-esteem. Any underlying mental illness should be treated with appropriate medication. If the individual with obsessive love has begun to manifest life-threatening or otherwise dangerous behaviours, then legal interventions like involving the police and implementing restraining orders and safety plans may be necessary,” sums up Dr Chavda.
 
  
 
 
 
  
