GOLD COAST: On a day when Anish became the youngest Indian gold medallist at the  , seasoned campaigner Tejaswini Sawant proved that age is just a number by gunning the gold in women’s 50m rifle 3 positions final with a new Games Record.

 
 
 
 The 37-year-old Sawant scored 457.9 points to edge teenager Anjum Moudgil who settled for the second place with 455.7. Scotland’s Seonaid Mcintosh came third. “The range is very windy and it’s tough for 0.22 shooters,” she said. Earlier, Anjum had topped the qualification round with a new Games record of 589 while Tejaswini finished third with 582.
 
 
 
 In 25m rapid fire, Anish edged his Aussie rival with his very last shot. “Yesterday, my qualification was not that good. But today my final was good,” Anish said after beating Sergey Evglevski of Australia. Anish, who was third after the first qualification stage on Thursday, came back with a bang as he topped the second stage with a total of 580. Teammate Neeraj Kumar came second with 579. But Neeraj faded away in the final ending fifth.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 “Whatever I have done is not enough. I have the hunger to do well and that keeps me going,” Tejaswini, who won the silver medal in rifle prone, told TOI here when asked about her long career.
 
 The Maharashtrian said she was speaking to Mehuli Ghosh about the age-gap between her and the youngsters in the side. “I was telling Mehuli that you are of 17 years age and my   experience is 18 years,” the former world champion said.
 
 She said the new batch of Indian shooters are much more talented and gave credit to the coaches for grooming them. “Due to the hardships faces by the likes of Anjali and me, these youngsters have lot of facilities now. Now we a have a good set of Indian coaches who have all competed at the world level,” Tejaswini said.
 
 Asked how she long she wants to continue in top-level shooting battling the youngsters, the rifle shooter said she will surely be on till 2020. “I haven’t thought that much ahead. But I want to continue till the Tokyo Games. That’s for sure,” she said.
 
 Tejaswini, an officer with the Sports Department in Maharashtra, said she never took a break but she couldn’t focus on shooting due to her mom’s illness. “Because of that I couldn’t do well in the trials and I didn’t make the team,” she recalled.
 
 On the 2012 Olympics, she said: “I won the world championship in prone in 2010 but in Olympics I was in the 3P and I didn’t do well.”
 
 “Now I’m training mostly in 0.22 and so my air rifle scores have gone down,” she said.
 
