MUMBAI: The   ( ) on Tuesday decided to exclude management quota seats from the 2018 admission process for postgraduate courses, the schedule for which will be declared on Wednesday. The decision was taken after private colleges suddenly sought to charge management quota students fees on a par with those belonging to   quota-five times the fees of merit students. 

  The DMER decision will stand unless the issue is resolved at a meeting of private colleges slated for Wednesday. 
 
  
  
 
 Around 140 seats across the state are likely to remain vacant if the stalemate continues as 35% of PG   in private colleges are under the management quota. Maharashtra has a total of 1,500 PG seats in government colleges and 400 (including management quota) in private institutes. Besides, there are 900 seats in deemed universities which are filled up by the central government.
 
 Dr Pravin Shingare, head of DMER, said, "At the eleventh hour, private medical colleges are demanding that they be allowed to charge five times fees from students joining under the management quota. Hence, we will now go ahead with PG admissions without filling the 35% management quota seats."
 
 This year, the   (FRA) has stipulated a three-tier structure under which a college can charge NRI quota students up to five times the fees of merit students, while management quota students can be charged up to three times. Last year, colleges had charged management quota students three times the fees paid by merit students.
 
 After the introduction of NEET, private colleges have lost the right to conduct their own admissions. So, if the DMER does not include the 35% seats in the admission process, those seats will remain vacant. "We will carry out admissions for 50% merit seats and 15% NRI students. Colleges are happy with that. They only want management quota fees to be on a par with NRI fees. So, we will announce that we are excluding the 35% management quota seats from our admission process," added Dr Shingare.
 
 Private colleges are likely to approach the Fee Regulating Authority with their request after a meeting among themselves on Wednesday. "We will be able to comment only after we hold our meeting tomorrow (Wednesday). Till a year ago, except last year, we used to charge higher fees from students who took admission under the management quota," said Kamal Kishore Kadam, president of the Association of Managements of Unaided Private Medical and Dental Colleges.
 
 Last year, the DMER had written to the FRA seeking advise on the fee formula to be followed. This was because private colleges used to admit students based on their own entrance exam and charge higher fees from management quota students. 
 
 
