AGRA: More than a week after six armed men in an SUV waylaid a   and his   in Etah district and robbed them of Rs 45.50 lakh cash, a SWAT team with the aid of personnel of three police stations arrested five men and recovered the money. 

 Police also recovered five country-made pistols of .315 calibre along with 17 cartridges and the SUV used for the heist. For successfully solving the case, DGP UP O P Singh rewarded the team with Rs 50,000 while ADG, Agra zone, Ajay Anand gave Rs 25,000 cash reward.
 
 According to police, the plan to commit the   was hatched by a cashier working at the businessman's uncle's office. 
 
 He was identified as Hardeep Singh of Unasi village, Fatehagarh district. He along with another accused, identified as Rajeev of Fatehpur village of Etah district besides four historysheeters executed the plan. The four historysheeters were identified as Sandeep Singh alias Bunty (Purahar village, Etah), Chandarmohan Singh alias Munna (Kinaudi Khairabad village, Etah), Satyendar Yadav alias (Sheetal) and Devendar. They are wanted in cases of robbery, smuggling, rioting and other crimes. They were also booked under Gangster Act.
 
 Giving details, superintendent of police, Etah, Akhilesh Chaurasia said, "On May 5 afternoon, Sachin Yadav along with his cashier Vikas were returning home with a hefty amount of cash collected from Delhi wholesale market after selling 50 trucks of wheat. The two were waylaid by six men on Etah-Aliganj road and robbed at gunpoint.
 
 "During the investigation, we found that Hardeep Singh had hatched the plan along with five men. On Friday night, the investigating teams received inputs about the robbers' presence in Aliganj. When they confronted the gang, the accused fired shots. The team, however, nabbed five of the six men and recovered the entire amount of stolen money.
 
 "Sandeep Singh, the most notorious member in the gang who has 19 criminal cases against him, had surrendered before the district court earlier after executing the heist in order to avoid any suspicion," added the Etah SP. 
 
 
