KOLKATA: The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation has earned nearly Rs 3 lakh by auctioning some of the trees that were uprooted during the first double squall of the season on April 17. The civic authorities plan to equally distribute the money among the 41 councillors to plant saplings in their respective wards across the township on World Environment Day on June 5.

 Civic officials said that over 100 large trees and several small ones fell down in the high-speed storm across  . Most of the trees have been removed and stored at the civic stackyard. “Many of the uprooted trees have been auctioned and some are left. The collected money will go to the civic body’s fund. We plan to utilise the fund by planting trees and saplings on World Environment Day. The plan will be discussed at our next board meeting,” said Bidhannagar MMiC (environment & social welfare services) Rohima Bibi. Civic officials said every year, they carried out the programme of planting sapling in the township. “We plan to plant five saplings for every tree lost to the squall,” said an official.
 
 Bidhannagar mayor Sabyasachi Dutta had earlier said that new trees would be planted to compensate for the green cover destroyed. “As the soil of the township has a weak grip, from now on, mostly small trees will be planted here to avoid such major loss of big tress in future,” he had said. It has been noticed that some of the trees that had got tilted during the April 17 squall, got uprooted in the subsequent storms.
 
 Horticulture experts pointed out that unscientific and unplanned planting of trees in the township had also been a reason for so many trees being uprooted and branches breaking down during the recent squalls. “This has been a problem for Salt Lake as its soil is loose and the roots cannot go deep down under. Trees should be planted in places, where there are ample space for the roots to spread deep down. Proper pruning should also be done,” said S K Maity of Bidhannagar Horticulture Society.
 
