KOLKATA: Two Madhyamik candidates, including one who allegedly attempted suicide, wrote their board examination from the beds of   and Hospital (RGKMCH) on Tuesday. Efforts by the hospital, respective schools and the   ensured that the two students did not lose an academic year due to hospitalization.

 One of the candidates was rushed to the hospital on Sunday from Barangar’s   after the boy consumed Vitamin A capsules allegedly to commit suicide. In addition to treatment, doctors also started counselling him since he had his mathematics examination on Monday.
 
 After his condition stabilized on Sunday night, he expressed his wish to sit for the examination on Monday. The hospital sent out a communication to concerned bodies on Sunday night itself so that Pal could sit for his examination. The student finally wrote the maths and life science papers from hospital on Monday and Tuesday respectively.
 
 “The boy has recovered well. But we will be keeping him for few more days under observation,” said  , principal of RGKMCH.
 
 Vishya Sardar, the other student, had sustained injuries on Monday night after being hit by an auto risckshaw in Haroa. By the time the boy was brought to RGKMCH it was well past midnight. Doctors found that Sardar had suffered pelvic fracture and was also passing blood with urine. A medical board with a neuromedicine expert, a general surgeon and a urologist assessed the boy and decided that he could write his life science examination.
 
 “But he was unable to hold the pen due to the traumatic injury on his right hand. Moreover, patient with pelvic injury finds it difficult to sit up,” said Batabyal.
 
 With the help of teachers at  , where the boy studies, a writer (a student of Class X) of the same school was arranged within a short span of time. On Tuesday, Sardar dictated the answers to him. “Hopefully, the boy won’t have to undergo a surgery. He is being kept under conservative treatment,” said a doctor of the hospital.
 
 Both the students will be sitting for their optional elective examination on Wednesday from the hospital.
 
