KOLKATA: On   adjoining Harish Chatterjee Street where chief minister   resides, a brawny   has upstaged the dainty Basanti and Annapurna this year. On the eve of  , sculptors at Kalighat Patuapara or sculptor’s colony were busy painting Bajrangbali idols in different postures — kneeling on one knee, standing proud or seated regally — and varied dimensions (3ft to 12ft) on Friday. The bare torso with sculpted muscles were all painted saffron.

 Around this time of the year, the clay sculptors are usually busy with traditional idols of Basanti and Annapurna. But this year, they are busy executing orders of new Bajrangbali idols while the semi-finished bamboo and straw structures of traditional Annapurna and Basanti idols have been relegated to the rear in street-side studios that line either flank of Kalighat Road.
 
 
 Orders for Bajrangbali first trickled in around four years ago, taking the idol-makers at Kumartuli in north Kolkata and Kalighat’s Patuapara in south by surprise.
 
 “There were a few Bajrangbali temples in the city but Hanuman Jayanti was not quite a community festival in Kolkata. So when an order came last year, it was a pleasant surprise. Since we did not have any prior knowledge of making Hanuman idols, those who placed orders provided an image downloaded from the internet. I made the idol accordingly,” recounted sculptor Nepal Chitrakar.
 
 This year, Chitrakar received orders for three Bajrangbali idols, one of 4ft and two others of 7ft. Not just him, at least a dozen sculptors have received orders for multiple idols, each fetching anything between Rs 6,500 and Rs 25,000.
 
 “Bajrangbali is becoming a phenomenon. It was a popular god across the Hindi belt but in Kolkata, its worship was limited to a few temples dedicated to Hanumanji. Now even local clubs in predominantly non-Bengali localities are celebrating Hanuman Jayanti in a major way,” said sculptor Pradip Rudra Pal. “There is definitely a political colour to what’s happening. Since the fall of the Communist government, the number of festivals has gone up. There are more Sitala pujas in localities. The number of Kali pujas has also gone up. After 2014, a few festivals like Ganesh Chaturthi, Sherawali and Hanuman Jayanti that were low key have gained prominence,” he remarked.
 
