GURUGRAM: A 15-year-old girl died of burns she sustained in a major fire that broke out in a   near   in Gurugram’s   on Monday morning. 

 The girl, who lived in the slum, was first rushed to a local private hospital before being shifted to Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital, where she succumbed to her injuries later in the day. 
 
 Two other women, local residents, also received burn injuries in the fire that gutted over 40 shanties. However, they were released after treatment at the private hospital. 
 
 According to officials, the cause behind the fire has not been ascertained yet. 
 
 Around 10.15 am on Monday, a fire broke out in the slum located behind The Legend apartment. Manoj Kumar, the driver of a resident of the apartment, spotted the fire and called the fire brigade. 
 
 A team of fire fighters from Sector 29 fire station reached the spot and tried to bring the fire under control using four fire tenders. Afterwards, one fire engine from Bheem Nagar, Sector 37, and another from the Udyog Vihar fire station were also pressed into service. After two hours, the fire was finally brought under control with seven fire engines but four bicycles, one motorcycle, and other items were gutted in the fire.
 
 “I spotted the fire after residents of the slum started screaming for help. I immediately called the fire brigade. Soon, the fire was spreading across the slum as the mini gas cylinders inside the shanties started exploding,” driver and eyewitness Manoj told TOI.
 
 “I was outside and saw the fire spread from one jhuggi to another. I could save some of my household goods and valuables as I spotted the fire at the start. However, most of the families were out for work at the time and their possessions were gutted in the fire,” said Nepal Singh, who lives in the slum.
 
 “We went to the spot and brought the fire under control in two hours but could not save items inside shanties. A girl named Kukku, the daughter of Sonu got severe burn injuries and was taken to a private hospital. Two other women lost consciousness and were rushed to the hospital in an ambulance. The cause behind the fire is not known but it could have been a short circuit or a stove spark,” said fire officer Lalit Verma.
 
 
