JAIPUR: Historians have critically analysed British officer Col James   (1782 CE-1835 CE) for adding the element of romanticism in historical events in his book ‘annals and antiquities of Rajasthan’ at a conclave on historical writings held at  .

 The two-day conclave concluded at historian based in Udaipur on Saturday. Chandra Shekar Sharma argued that Tod had used his imagination while elaborating the episode of Rani Padmini.
 
 “The mirror scene, he mentioned, is directly related to the contemporary school of writings in Europe which were focused on romanticism. His writings have set the popular narrative of Rani Padmini shown to Ala-Ud-Din khilji in the mirror. So, it is required to critically analyse the writings of Tod who is directly or indirectly part of controversy revolving around  ,” said Sharma.
 
 He added that if his version is closely analyses –the language, tone, undertones– it is directly linked to the European style of writings. “Tod version of history is a replica of the European style of history written in the mid ages,” said Sharma.
 
 Tod was a political agent of the   in Mewar. His book ‘Annals and Antiquity of Rajasthan’ was based on the oral history. His book has formed the basis of numerous books on   history.
 
 Lokendra Singh Chundawat, another historian says that Tod relied upon the Charans and Bhats, both are communities known for writing in praise of the king and the nobles.
 
 “No doubt that Tod had introduced the valour of Rajputs to the world by publishing his book from London. He, however, made glaring mistakes which had gone against his credibility. “He made Meera wife of Maharana Kumbha but in reality, Meera was the wife of  , the grandson of Kumbha,” said Singh.
 
 The glaring mistakes in the book either should be omitted or the book should be seen only as an annal to avoid future confrontation. “Suppose any filmmaker or play director working on Meera can show her as the wife of   which is again a historical blunder like the one of Rani Padmini. It is important that sensitive parts of history in the Tod evaluation should be removed," said Singh.
 
