HYDERABAD: Is chief minister   going to Odisha on a pilgrimage or to discuss politics with Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik? In what clearly appear to be efforts at cobbling up a front as an alternative to the BJP and the Congress, TRS leader and Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao said he will visit Bhubaneshwar in the first week of May.

 The CMO said the meeting is part of KCR’s efforts to bring in a “qualitative change in the country’s politics”. “Since the Odisha legislature is in session now, Naveen Patnaik invited KCR to meet him in the first week of May and KCR agreed,” the CMO said on Tuesday morning.
 
 However, Patnaik had something else to tell the media later in Bhubaneshwar. “As far as I know, Telangana chief minister is going on a pilgrimage to Puri. On the way, he’s paying me a courtesy call. There will be no discussion on a federal front or anything to do with politics for that matter,” he said.
 
 Naveen Patnaik of the Biju Janata Dal (BJD) is serving his fourth term as Odisha CM. Odisha has 21Lok Sabha seats, of which BJD won 20 in the 2014 elections. Chandrasekhar Rao had plans to fly to Bhubaneshwar to meet him earlier, but had to put it off in view of the Odisha Assembly being in session. The session began on April 11and got adjourned and is scheduled to meet again on April 19.
 
 Chandrasekhar Rao, who floated the idea of a Federal Front to bring together various regional parties, has already met West Bengal chief minister   of the   in Kolkata, and Janata Dal (Secular) leader and former prime minister Deve Gowda and his son, former CM of Karnataka, H D Kumaraswamy in Bengaluru.
 
 Chandrasekhar Rao, who initially talked about a Federal Front comprising regional parties, later announced in Bengaluru that the idea was to bring several parties on to a single platform based on their agenda for people’s welfare in the next elections. He also spoke of formulating an agenda for the welfare of farmers.
 
 Though KCR is loathe to the Congress being part of the front as the party is TRS’ primary rival in Telangana, Mamata Banerjee has friendly ties with the Congress in West Bengal. Both leaders have put off discussions on this issue for a later date.
 
