 
  are back; back to their dominating ways, scoring goals for fun and leaving defenders gasping for breath.
  
  Star striker Ferran Corominas is back among the goals,   has added to his tally too and new boy Hugo Boumous has got into the scoring act as well. Surprise, surprise, the team has kept a clean sheet for only the first time in 15 matches. Yet when FC Goa face struggling   at the Nehru Stadium in Fatorda on Wednesday, they could still be left with some doubts.
  
  Ever since the Indian Super League was launched in the winter of 2014, FC Goa and ATK have been involved in some memorable clashes, both on and off the field. Who can forget that infamous fight between marquee player Robert Pires and ATK coach Antonio Habas? Or Fikru Teferra wrestling with Gregory Arnolin? Goa and ATK, or Goa and teams from Bengal, have never really seen eye to eye, and the feeling is mutual.
  
  “The situation is not in our favour. It’s a must win game for Goa. We can only try (to win). It will be an open match (and) will be good for the spectators,” said ATK assistant coach Bastab Roy.
  
  These are such miserable days for ATK that not even their excellent record against Goa can give them any comfort. ATK have never lost to Goa in an astonishing nine matches spread across four years but for the first time, Goa appear to be genuine favourites to buck that trend.
  
  “Records are there to be broken,” said Goa coach Sergio Lobera.
  
  “What’s in the past is in the past, and what happens tomorrow has nothing to do with what has happened in the past. It wouldn’t have made a difference if Goa had won all the (previous) matches (against ATK). I am not nervous just because we haven’t won (against ATK). It's a new team, completely different season, different scenario,” said Lobera.
  
  If any team is equipped to deal with ATK, particularly at this stage against the two-time champions, it’s the one being built by Lobera. They are the highest-scoring side in the   with 34 goals, and their 4-0 demolition of FC Pune City have given them the wings to fly for the remainder of the campaign.
  
  Poor ATK, who won the title last year, are in danger of finishing at the bottom of the pool table when the league stage concludes later this week. With 13 points from 16 matches, they are floating just above NorthEast United FC at the bottom and their six losses in their last seven matches is the worst run that any team has ever had. Since coach Teddy Sheringham was shown the door, ATK have picked up just a point from six matches.
  
  In sharp contrast, FC Goa’s woes now appear to be a thing of the past, particularly after that win against Pune City when they broke a five-match winless run. Should Goa pick up four points from their remaining two league matches, they will seal a place in the semifinals.
  
  “The team showed personality and returned to our   against Pune. We were in control,” said Lobera.
  
  Against nemesis ATK, Goa would need a little more.
