KOCHI: Tourists who come out of the international airport at Nedumbassery may be able to hop into solar-powered boats and travel all the way upto   situated in the heart of  , enjoying a 32 km scenic backwater and inland cruise in the near future. 

 Cochin   (Cial) managing director V J Kurien announced on Wednesday that they would be launching waterway connectivity between the international airport in Nedumbassery and Marine Drive.
 
 "It will be realised under the Kerala Waterways and Infrastructures Ltd ( ) project which envisages waterway connectivity from Kasaragod to Kovalam. This waterway project will be completed in May, 2020. The Cial-Marine Drive stretch will have a length of around 30 to 32 km and could be completed ahead of it," said V J Kurien, who did not disclose the estimated time to complete the stretch.
 
 He said that they would be operating a solar boat. Cial officials said they are currently in talks with solar boat companies for this purpose. The exact route of the waterway is yet to be finalized. 
 
 "This will be a pilot project aiming to get aspects of the KWIL inland waterway project up and running before the launch. The main aim of this project is to show that we can operate a boat along this path, offering connectivity while at the same time it would not create pollution, affect the water life or create problems for farmers," said a Cial official.
 
 He said that the inland waterway project would be running through Chengalthodu canal which is an 'overflow basin' of Periyar river. "The pathway already exists. We would only have dredge it to make it bigger," he added.
 
 K Shivaprasad, associate professor, department of shipping technology, Cusat, said connecting Nedumbassery and Marine Drive is an ambitious undertaking. "It isn't easy to dredge a canal and make it part of a waterway. They would also have to secure several environment clearances before they could proceed with it," he said.
 
 Cial, which holds 49% share in the KWIL project, expects to establish similar connectivity between airports and cities in Thiruvananthapuram and Kannur.
 
 "We will be setting up a similar airport and city connectivity in Thiruvananthapuram, connecting the airport with Parvathy Puthanar canal via Chakka. And in Kannur, the airport will be connected via Anjarakandy river," said Cial official.
 
 KWIL aims to establish an inland waterway with a length of 450km linking 11 districts from Kasaragod to Kovalam. The project announced in the summer of 2017, is being implemented under the direct monitoring of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan.
 
 
