RAJKOT: In a first-of-its-kind move,   from Talala taluka in Junagadh are all set to directly sell their famed produce in Delhi and also explore possibilities of   it in other states across the country. Uttar Pradesh’s Dussheri  , which has a huge market in Delhi will get tough competition this year from Gujarat’s Kesar mangoes. 

 Over 300 farmers have come under the banner of Gir Krishi Vasant Utpadak Sangh (GKVUS) and begun the process of developing a logo and registering the trademark for Kesar mangoes. Since last couple of years the Talala farmers have been selling mangoes directly only in Ahmedabad.
 
 The luscious Kesar, largely grown around the foothills of Girnar mountains in Junagadh, has attained global recognition as ‘Gir Kesar’ mango after receiving the Geographical Indication (GI) tag. Kesar is the second variety of mango in India to get GI tag after the Dussheri variety grown in Uttar Pradesh. In 2015-16, mango production in Gujarat was 12.41 lakh tonne, of which nearly 2 lakh tonne was estimated to be of Kesar mangoes grown in Junagadh, Gir-Somnath and Amreli districts. The Kesar mangoes are cultivated in 20,000 hectare area and its peak season starts from April. 
 
 In May this year, around 30 farmers from Talala will be going to Delhi to sell Kesar mangoes under the banner GKVUS which is registered as Farmers Producers Organization (FPO). A state-level autonomous company Gujarat Agribusiness Consortium Producers Company Ltd (GUJPRO) will provide the platform for farmers in Delhi and help them market the mangoes in association with the Small Farmers Agribusiness Consortium (SFAC), a firm promoted by the central government. 
 
 Tushar Dameliya, director of GKVUS, told TOI, “In 2015, two farmers went on their own to Delhi with their stock of Kesar mangoes, while in 2016, five farmers from Saurashtra followed their footsteps. This is the first time that 30 farmers will go together to Delhi to sell mangoes.” The farmers will stay there for 30-45 days depending on the season. The mangoes will be transported from Talala in an air-cooled container which will take at least three days to reach Delhi. 
 
 GKVUS called a meeting of farmers in Talala on Saturday to convey this message and asked them to register to go to Delhi. Accommodation facility will be provided by SFAC. Farmers will also get a good ground on rent from Delhi state government to sell their produce. 
 
 Jayesh Hirpara, administrator of GKVUS, said, “Farmers will get good price for mangoes with this initiative because outside Gujarat there is huge demand and market for Kesar mangoes. Earlier, all profits went to middlemen. Now, small farmers will get direct benefit.” 
 
 Farmers of other parts of Gujarat like Kutch and Valsad also grow Kesar mango. So, the Gir farmers have initiated process of registering their logo under the Copyrights Act. “We have developed our logo and will register it under the Trademark Act. This will help people identify the Gir Kesar easily,” said Dameliya, who is also a chartered accountant by profession. 
 
 
