HYDERABAD: That fever is a symptom of a major underlying health problem was recognised by Ayurveda doctors in ancient Telangana. This is evident from the existence of exclusive hospitals ( ) dedicated to the treatment of fevers in ancient and medieval Telangana.

 According to Dr  , assistant director at  , early Telangana was a hub of medical research and hospitals. There were exclusive fever hospitals with expert doctors in Ayurveda in different parts of Telangana as early as 2nd century CE. Even veterinary medicine was encouraged in the region.
 
 In his research study presented at the second international seminar on ‘Telangana through ages: Perspectives from early and medieval periods’, Dr Prasad, an expert in Ayurveda, said inscriptions in Telangana on Ayurvedic literature reveal how rulers and nobles had financially supported physicians and encouraged them with grants of land. They also talk about the availability of specialty medical services, including treatment for various fevers and complicated health problems.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Vijayapuri (Nagarjunakonda) was a beehive of all medical activity in the 2nd and 3rd century CE. Archaeological digs in 1926–1960 found 130 sites across 24 sq km, which now lie almost entirely under the waters of  .
 
 “Nagarjuna was a practitioner, teacher and researcher of Ayurveda. He had written many Ayurvedic books. He is the redactor of medical treatise Sushruta Samhita. Excavations at   showed structure of ahospital attached to a monastic complex,” Dr Prasad said.
 
 He said the term ‘Vihare Mukhya Jwaralaya’ (main fever hospital) found in the inscription excavated at the site revealed the existence of a fever hospital attached to the monastery. The doctors were proficient in Shastra Shaastra (surgical sciences). “If Indian medical epigraphy is compared with the world medical epigraphy, we have huge treasure. But in the world medical history, Indian traditional wisdom has not been given proper place as all these data are not focused or highlighted properly,” he added.
 
