GURUGRAM: The maximum temperature came down by three notches on Saturday, heralding pleasant   in the city only a day after residents complained of unusually warm conditions. 

 The maximum temperature was 28 degrees Celsius, apparently as an effect of showers in Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh, on Saturday, down from 31 degrees Celsius on Friday. The lowest temperature during the day was recorded at 22 degrees Celsius. The temperature is expected to remain between 29 and 30 degrees Celsius during the day on Sunday.
 
 The warm conditions over the past few days had been an outcome of heavy cloud cover as solar radiations got trapped in the earth’s atmosphere, said the regional weather forecasting centre (RWFC) officials. However, a Western Disturbance resulted in rain in Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh on Saturday and winds from these two states brought down temperatures in the NCR plains, even as the weather turned humid, said RWFC officials. The wind speed in the city was 14 km per hour on Saturday. 
 
 Officials said temperatures would dip further but that trend would be short-lived. While city residents will witness pleasant weather on Sunday and Monday too, the mercury is expected to rise again from Wednesday, before it drops after subsequent precipitation. Officials said another Western Disturbance was approaching and was likely to hit J&K and Himachal on March 1 and 2. “The winds from the northern areas will have an effect in the plains but we are going to see pleasant weather for only a few days. The warmer trend will pick up after that as a fresh Western Disturbance approaches the region,” said an official.
 
 Officials said that variation in mercury was normal in February but the warmer trend this past week had taken temperatures to record highs. Usually, summer does not officially begin before Holi after which temperatures start to rise.
 
 The PM2.5 concentration further increased by 26% and crossed the 200-mark on Saturday. It was below 88 micrograms per cubic metre last Monday and 140 on Friday, before increasing to 201 on Saturday. After nearly 10 days of “moderate” air quality, a sudden rise in PM2.5 concentration was witnessed on Wednesday and the air quality turned “very poor”. Air quality index (AQI) was 309 on Saturday and 299 on Friday, both considered as “very poor”.
 
 According to the Met department, light showers in the next few days might bring down PM2.5 levels. “Rain might help in clearing the sky and disperse particulate matter,” said an official of the Met department.
 
 
