Nakshatra Wadgaonkar, a student of Class III from Jain International School, Aurangabad has bagged the top prize at the International English Olympiad 2017-18. Wadgaonkar will be awarded a cash prize of Rs.50,000, a gold medal and a certificate. The examination is conducted every year for students of Class 1 to 12 in various subjects by the Science Olympiad Foundation (SOF). Hailing the achievement, school principal Santosh Kumar said Nakshatra has not only made the school proud but also the city as a whole. He added, “Her achievement is a motivation for anyone who has a zeal to do something extraordinary.” Elechrome, annual technical event at NIELIT concludes: Brigadier D K Patra, commander at Aurangabad cantonment board presided over the valedictory ceremony of Elechrome, an annual technical event at National Institute of Electronics and Information Technology (NIELIT). Addressing budding engineers and scientists of the central institute, Patra said youth of the country must decide the area in which they want to apply the knowledge that they have gained through formal education. He said, “Your future is in your hands. You have to make informed choices about your career. Youth should also decide which domain they want to demonstrate their knowledge.” Patra also gave away prizes to students who emerged as winners in different categories of the three-day technical event. This year Elechrome hosted Robo competition, beauty pageant for both boys and girls, paper presentation, sporting events and a host of other activities. The event saw eminent personalities from reputed industries and institutions guiding and motivating students. 103rd foundation day of SBES: Saraswati Bhuvan Education Society (SBES) chairman J M Gandhi on Sunday appealed to teachers to give their best while grooming students. Gandhi, who has recently taken over the reins of SBES after the demise of Dinkar Borikar, was speaking at the 103th foundation day of the historic educational group. He said, “Teachers shape the lives of scores of students. It is a nobler work than any charity. To ensure success in this endeavour, teachers must set personal goals so that most lives can be transformed.” “Indian culture hails teachers as masters and also awards them godly status. This implies how important a role teachers have to play in moulding the lives of students. Therefore, every teacher must realise the crucial responsibility they have to shoulder,” Gandhi added. SBES general secretary Dinesh Wakil said, “Every teacher must understand the great tradition and ethos of this institution.” Wakil added, “The SBES has reached the current days of glory after undergoing a challenging journey spanning more than 100 years. Several noted personalities have dedicated their lives for the growth of the institution. Being a part of this glorious institution, every teacher must inculcate a set of values and produce good students.” SBES treasurer Ramkrushna Joshi, joint secretaries Shrirang Deshpande and Dynaprakash Modani along with entrepreneurs Ram Bhogle and Jugalkishor Dhoot among others were present on the occasion.