NEW DELHI: The   ( ) today told the Maharashtra government the   'mysterious death' case is a matter in which the petitioner should know all the facts and must be able to examine all the documents, including the medical report. 

 
 "It is a matter where they (petitioners) should know everything," said the SC, which last Thursday agreed to hear the petition seeking an independent probe into the death of CBI judge, who died while hearing the  . 
 
 The petition alleges the judge's death is "suspicious". In fact, the court is hearing two PILs, one filed by journalist Bandhuraj Sambhaji and other by political activist Tehseen Poonawala.
 
 Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for the Maharashtra government, told the SC today that government has no problem sharing the documents with the petitioners, but requested the latter not make it public.
 
 Earlier today, as per the SC's Thursday order, the Maharashtra government handed over the case documents in a sealed cover to the apex court.
 
 The court adjourned the case for a week and allowed the petitioners to file additional documents if they wanted.
 
 This plea was one of the many contentious issues brought up last Friday by four of the most senior SC judges, who called an unprecedent press conference to express their displeasure at the Chief Justice of India's (CJI) conduct. They alleged irregularities in how cases are assigned by the CJI.
 
 Loya's family on Sunday said that they did not want to be victims of politicization and urged all parties to refrain from taking advantage of the situation.
 
 "Our family is pained with the chain of events in past few days. Please don't harass us," justice Loya's son Anuj said at a specially convened press conference.
 
 "We have no suspicion over father's death; I had suspicions earlier but now it is over," Anuj clarified when asked about reports that members of Loya's family had doubts about the circumstances surrounding his death.
 
 Loya died on December 1, 2014 in Nagpur where he had gone to attend a wedding. The Sohrabuddin fake encounter case was transferred by the Supreme Court from Gujarat to Mumbai in September 2013. The next trial judge acquitted   and others in the fake encounter case on December 30, 2014.
 
 
 
