GURUGRAM: The   (NMTs) along the Rajiv Chowk and Signature Towers underpasses were thrown open to the public on Monday but during a spot analysis on Wednesday, TOI found the Rajiv Chowk NMTs plunged into darkness, only occasionally lit up by autorickshaw headlights. The NMTs have been built to ensure free passage for pedestrians and cyclists. It showed an improvement in urban planning when the NHAI factored in the NMTs in the project plan for the Rajiv Chowk and Signature Tower underpasses but it is failing to ensure their proper use.

 At Signature Towers, the NMTs are open roads but at Rajiv Chowk, the four NMTs are all covered. The stretch includes the cross underpasses, which have a total length of 1.53kms, and are connected to each other by box underpasses of 325metres. Additionally, there is an exclusive 4.5km open cycle track.
 
 On Wednesday, TOI found the cross underpasses had no lighting and was totally dark at around 1pm. It was so dark that one can’t even see where they are walking. Each of the box underpasses run for 325metres but they don't even have electrical wiring. The passage has become vulnerable to criminal activities in the absence of proper lighting. Two people were even found sleeping on the  .
 
 Meanwhile, only a rare motorcycle or autorickshaw were spotted on the NMTs on Wednesday. The entrance and exit points have not been barricaded and are so wide that even cars can pass through. 
 
 Saurabh Singhal, traffic transportation expert at Bloom Companies, the NHAI project consultant, said, “Motorcycles and autorickshaws should not be allowed on the NMTs. We did put up streetlights but someone stole them. We will ensure that lights are put up again.” The NMTs were supposed to be lit up with 50 LED lights but TOI didn’t even find 20. The electrical wiring of the ones which were there had not been set up.
 
 Harpal, the guard at the NMT, said, “It has been two days since the NMTs have been opened but not many pedestrians or cyclists are using it. I have been stationed here since the work on the NMTs began around a year ago. No electrical fitting has been installed inside the box underpasses. Lights were put along the rest of the NMT stretch but drug addicts stole them. I am more than 70 years old and I can’t stop them as I am afraid that they will kill me.”
 
 
