She’s bubbling with energy. She’s shooting for the climax of her upcoming film at a suburban studio, and the actress is all agog on seeing how the final act is unfolding. Directed by  ,   is playing mom to young National Award-winning Bengali actor, Riddhi Sen, in this film. Yes, this supremely talented actress takes pride in the choice of roles she’s played, but her ultimate high is playing mommy in real life. In a career spanning over two decades, she could have packed in more films, but she explains, “I can’t do just about anything for the sake of being seen on screen.” Yet, she remains hugely popular, and the fact that her wax statue will be unveiled at Madame Tussauds, Singapore (tomorrow) is testimony to that. In a chat with BT, interspersed with a lot of laughs and big bites of a burger, Kajol tells us about her career choices, how her kids deal with the paps, and how the new generation of actors have far more chances to reinvent themselves. Read on…

 
 
 It’s a great feeling, I have amazing memories attached to Madame Tussauds. I was 10 years old when my mom took us on a holiday to London. We went to the museum and I remember doing all the touristy things like clicking pictures with David Bowie, Napoleon and   among others. Cut to now, I’m actually part of it, so it is a big deal for me. I will be in Singapore to spend time with my daughter, so both of us will go for the inauguration. My kids haven’t been to Madame Tussauds, but I guess that this generation doesn’t realise what it’s really about. It’s also because they know that they can photoshop their picture next to whoever they want.
 
 
 
 Well, more than anything else, it is interesting to see how boundaries are being broken, whether it’s Bollywood stars gaining popularity there, or Hollywood celebs becoming bigger here. It is also indicative of how our cinema is changing. 
 
 
 
 You have been in the movies for 26 years now, but in comparison to many of your contemporaries, the number of films you have done is fewer. Yet, you remain a hugely popular star. What do you think has worked for you?
 Honestly, I think that I am still in this industry, because I haven’t done as many films in 26 years. I can’t do just about anything for the sake of being seen on screen. My reason for doing a film can’t be the fact that I haven’t done one in a year. I am happy with my life the way it is. I think that I have had maximum comebacks, and every time I do a film people say, ‘Oh! she is making a comeback!
 
 
 
 A lot of people come up to me with just an idea; it doesn’t work for me, as I need to read the whole script. There are certain genres that don’t interest me. I don’t want to do a dark film, and I am very clear about it. I don’t like watching dark films and I don’t do films that I don’t like to watch. My work needs to give me a high, or else I don’t see any point in doing it. I am a voracious reader; a good book is like nirvana to me. I can let go of my sleep if I have a good book to read. I read more books than I watch films. I don’t really watch too many films; in that sense, people might think I am illiterate. I need to pick a script and say, ‘Goddamn, I have to finish reading this’. Also, my kids are my life. My daughter   is 15, but trust me, kids never grow up, and my son Yug is eight years old. Of course, it’s absolutely fine to leave your kids home and go to work, and I have done that, but they are my priority. A lot of people have asked me, ‘What do you feel about the compromise and sacrifice?’ I tell them, ‘Trust me, I haven’t compromised. I want to do this’. My kids are fab; I love them as people, too. I have the most amazing conversations with them. I am really lucky that my mom-in-law (Veena), mom ( ), sister (Tanishaa) and Ajay (Devgn) have always encouraged me to go out and work. I love spending more time with my kids; it’s purely been my choice.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 I think this is the time when you can keep reinventing yourself. It’s not the time for actors to stay in one avatar. If you think something is not working, you can put on another mask and make it work for you. Earlier, actors had more time to establish themselves and learn on the job. It wasn’t a case of one-movie-make-or-break for us, nowadays it is. At the same time, I think that today’s generation sometimes gives up easily and they think that life is over. They have so many opportunities to reinvent themselves and there is never a dearth of work. I think that if you are willing to work really hard, avenues will open up for you. 
 
 
 
 I find it very intrusive and I try explaining to my kids that there are two sides to this. I tell them that because they are famous, there are things that they can do, which others can’t. But there will also be things that they can’t do, which others can easily do. My daughter has strong opinions and she keeps asking, ‘Why are they after me? Why are they clicking pictures of me while I am walking on the street?’ I tell her that fame has its downside, but there are privileges and opportunities, too, and they have to accept that. 
 
 
 
 Honestly, I think that people on social media are far meaner to celebrity kids than they would be to their neighbour’s children. That is something our kids have to deal with and it’s not a good place for them to be in. As parents, we have to ensure that it doesn’t affect them. Cyber-bullying and trolling happen not only to celebrities and their kids, but also to people who are vaguely famous. I keep reminding Nysa… you are beautiful inside out and it doesn’t matter what random people sitting out there think about you. What matters is what you think of yourself, and not what others think about you. After saying it about a million times, I guess it has registered with her.
 
 
 
 Yes, I do. I think Nysa was opinionated since the time she was in my womb. I’m having a problem with facing that aspect of my character in her now. When I was growing up, my mom would always tell me, ‘I hope you have a child who is exactly like you.’ There you go (laughs!). 
 
 
 I can’t reveal too much, but I will tell you that Eela (her character in the film) is an awesome woman, who is funny and extremely relatable. The boy who is playing my son, Riddhi Sen, has won the National Award for Best Actor this year. He’s a fabulous actor and one of the youngest people to win a National Award. He was so humble and quiet about winning the award, if I had won it, I would be shouting from the rooftops. 
 
 
 
 I would love to do films in other languages. I have done it before and last year, I did a Tamil film VIP 2 with Dhanush. Of course, as an actor, it’s much easier if you understand the language. I don’t mind doing any film, as long as it is the kind of film that I would like to watch. I know it makes me sound slightly unambitious, and I know that a lot of people might criticise me about this, too. People often ask me, ‘You want to do just this?’ I say, ‘Yes, I just want to do this’. I will do films if I feel like it, and I won’t do it if I don’t feel like it. Nobody else will have to live with my decision besides me, and nobody else has to look at me from the mirror. 
 
 
  
 
