Not that old at 47,   - these days occasionally better known as Taimur's dad - is still game to experiment and to learn from 25-year-old co-actors. Rigidity ages you, not years, he explains as he speaks on ageing, censorship, and how it’s difficult to frame rules for a society that is civilised and medieval at the same time.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 That's what you started with, okay! So, 73 cuts. And then it went to the FCAT, and came out with one cut. One cut! It got a U/A rating. It got U/A on the trailer. It is some bad s*** in there.
 
 
 
 
 Well I think it's fairly easy now, but it’s linked to something else that I find interesting. It's the treatment of the movie. When we are actually open to what we feel the audience would like, you know, like Spike Lee remade that Korean old-boy movie about a guy who eventually sleeps with his daughter. People don’t wanna see that. So it was a huge flop, nobody touched that again. Not because you're not 
  to make it, but because it's not a good idea. So sometimes, even though you’re allowed nudity, it would be interesting to reach a situation where we’re allowed to do anything, but people have realised it's not good practice to alienate families, it’s not a good practice to have bad language in the film if you want a Friday audience. I remember till 
  recently - I'm probably too old for it now - I would cringe a bit if somebody used bad language in a film and I was watching it with my mother, or if there was a particularly raunchy scene. I’d say, okay, I should be on my own, or she shouldn’t be here. I think a lot of the country is like that. So box office prospects will be damaged, and 
 is the relationship we should be attuned to.
 
 Double-meaning dances and dialogues came in big time in the '90s, and there was this situation where Tarun dance master - bless him, wherever he is - said to me one day that this is the song, the heroine comes in and leans in front of you and you do five pelvic thrusts into her face. So I said, 'Ohh... isn’t that a bit... vulgar?' And he was like, 'No. You’re doing 
  pelvic thrusts. If it was going forward, it would be disgusting.' Why did that happen? It’s because you couldn’t show a lovemaking scene, couldn’t show a relationship, couldn’t show a kiss. So you start developing cheap thrills.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 Yeah, but which is great - dancing, or whatever. I’m just saying, it’s got repercussions, you know, censorship. ‘Coz people will find a way to say it, but sometimes the truth is better. A nice kiss - there’s nothing wrong with that. And if you say kissing is not happening, then to show 
  you end up doing all kinds of other twisted stuff 
 . So that’s changed now. I think the answer to your question is that India is a difficult country to make rules for. There’s a civilised section of society that sometimes behaves not-so-civilised... and I feel it’s hard to make liberal laws sometimes, because people will abuse them. Like, people don’t like guns and the idea of guns, but I grew up with them, and I have a gun license. When I sent it to be renewed, they said you can only have 25 cartridges on your license a year - unless you're a national-level shooter. Which is a good rule. So people who are good at it as a sport have exemptions. But you have to prove yourself first. Good law. Why 25 cartridges? They said people at weddings start firing them 
 ! So there’s always some law being abused by somebody; that takes it away from us. So you understand that and shrug, and say, well, I can see how this could be abused. We’re a schizophrenic nation, for sure, where we’re civilised on one level and medieval on another.
 
 I’m sure Prasoon is not going to be... I pity him, actually. Because people will be looking at him and saying, ‘The new face...’. But nothing’s going to change because the 
  will stay the same, and I feel bad because people are hopeful. But, having said that, that body gave our film an ‘A’ certificate with 73 cuts, which is pretty much ‘XXX’. And then FCAT gave us 
  cut. And it’s actually really liberal. Because if I was being at all draconian, I would definitely give it some cuts. 
 
 I had read something about a Hollywood guy making a film about the Navy – have you heard the expression, 'swear like a sailor'? They
  that language. So in the pursuit of authenticity, Deepak Dobriyal and Vijay Raaz, who are the finest actors in India according to me, are playing mafia boys, and they’re not going to speak to each other in polite language. So to reflect that, we need that language. It shouldn’t be banned, it shouldn’t be cut. You say it’s an adult film and allow it.
 
 
 
 
 They are being allowed today. But I think our growth in India - and art is just one reflection of our society - 
  like that, a squiggly growth. It’s not straight. Like if you look at my career even, or if you look at the films anybody’s done, it’s not been a breaking of ceilings. We hit ceilings of creativity too. So we made 
 a long time ago, we made
 , which was a definitive romcom, and such a list of anti-cliches at the time, and 
 . And we hit a ceiling. None of those makers went anywhere beyond that, none of the actors went anywhere beyond that, so we kind of double back and start doing some crap and then go back up again. And then hit another ceiling at some point. So it’s not been straight. I feel a victim of this in a way. It’s circular.
 
 
 
 
 Yeah, but you would have thought that after 
  I’d be offered some really definitive stuff.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Some people are so simplistic in their critique when they say, ‘Why is this actor in this movie?’ And I’m like, I want to get paid, that’s why! That’s the best he was getting, obviously that’s why. They sometimes write about you as though you’re really manipulating every moment.
 
 
 
 
 Of course it’s not up to you! In fact, stardom is a freak of the universe. It’s just being the right guy in the right place with the right zeitgeist requiring the right energy. It’s a mix. You don’t engineer that. If you watch   in 
 , that is an epic movie, he engineered that, he created that. Sergio Leone gave him a remake of Kurosawa’s 
 , he brought his own Levis, his own gun, trimmed pages of dialogue into just two lines – and created this iconic character. So I guess you’ve got to be the right guy at the right time. It’s easy to understand in retrospect, but you can’t go out there and say I’m going to be a successful movie star. It either happens or it doesn’t. It’s kind of linked to the time.
 
 
  
  Clint Eastwood in 
 
 I like this time, a lot. I’m enjoying even the digital space. The kind of acting we’re being asked to do, I don’t know how universally popular it will be, but it’s finally on the same level as the American school of acting, which is subtle, expressive, you want the audience to lean in, to watch 
 , you don’t want to be leaning in on them. So to implore somebody doesn’t have to be very loud with a lot of glycerine. I mean obviously, we all know this now. But it’s more creative as a performer, it’s less stylistic.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 My agency said we’ve got this script, it’s really interesting, we know you’ll like it. And I hate being told that because I like to imagine people don’t really know me. But it’s pretty obvious they do 
 ! I was like, no, you can’t know what I’ll like. And then Vishal Bhardwaj, while I was waiting for a shot in 
 , said, 
  I said, 
  He said, ‘
 , it’s totally up your alley’. I said, what, again, you know what I like, eh? He said, ‘Yes, I do!’. I read it and I did love it. Akshat Verma is a wonderful writer, 
  good director. And I think it’s the most real and clever movie I’ve ever been in.
 
 And the quality of acting of these guys upped my game, changed me as an actor, which is phenomenal. I mean, I haven’t had a great time at the box office recently. It’s been a phenomenal year of growth though, ever since 
 , which had good reviews in terms of performing. Now whether it’s too late, I don’t know
 . This kind of acting, working with these guys, the new generation of actors out there, it’s all changing…
 
 
 
 
 Yeah, I guess. But also, I’m not 
  old, and I’m keeping up with them. And I’ve learnt from them. There are kids who say, okay, we’ll do a raunchy scene in 
 , I wanna be a heroine, but I’ll start with this. They're not like '
  heroine 
 ', and limiting themselves. All the kids here, 25, 26, they’re not bumbling their way through, they’re good actors performing really naturally, and I thought, Jesus! Luckily, I think I am that kind of actor too. So we’re in the same movie. Otherwise I would be like, God.... We have a tendency to preserve our environment, and that becomes our ivory tower. So it’s good to get out there and mix it up. So 
 is the beginning of that.
 
 
  
  Saif Ali Khan in a still from 
 
 
 
 Actually I’ve realised that you get older, not because you age, but because you try and cling to the ideals of your time. And that 
  ages you. When you say, no no no this is... and you become an old fogey. Fluidity is the key. I think my father had that.
 
 
 
 
 He’s (my co-star) like, ‘I’m so happy you’re doing something like this. You’ve smashed this’. ‘Smashed’ – he used that expression (laughs). And then he said, ‘But I didn’t like the last couple of movies, the vibe. You were the flag-bearer of this kind of cinema, at one point’. I said, yeah, I’m trying to make a bit more money, you can’t just do this kind of cinema 
 .
 
 
 
 
 Little indie, pushing the envelope... like a 
  rather than the mainstream.
 
 
 
 
 Yeah, definitely. Even though at the time, it was a little more multiplex, but it was the precursor to the mainstream, modern, Bollywood romcom. At the time, Aditya (Chopra) said, ‘There’s this new thing coming up called the multiplex, so I want to hit that’. He said you’re a multiplex hero, and it was not a great thing at that time 
 !
 
 
 
 
 It would be 
 , 
 , even 
 . These would be the three. I think there are a couple more that I’m missing. 
 , for sure, now. I think I’ve always done it, ’coz I’ve always liked that idea. My dream position in life would be to be a saleable mainstream actor who loves doing something slightly off-centre as well... Johnny Depp’s become a huge star, but when I was doing 
  I looked up to him.
 
 I don’t think I’ve ever been too bothered actually, about the box office or a particular kind of image. I just want to act in... I think if you can act naturally, it’s better. Rather than having a ‘style’.
 
 
 
 
 I think people are slow to move. It’s not necessarily a very creative profession. People here are trying to make money, so they’re superstitious. Let’s rephrase it slightly. I’ve played a lot unsympathetic characters, actually. I’ve played these spoilt, moneyed people who don’t want to marry the girl. And once in a while when I played against that type and fought for it, and played something that the camera supports... but generally, those have not been written for me. Maybe it’s a preconception that people have that I’m perhaps spoilt and from privilege, so...
 
 
 
 
 It’s a shame that we are victims – and now in the social media age, more than ever – of what we are personally. There are so many American actors who change their accents for every film, which I try and do. Hugh Laurie is an Etonian who went to Cambridge. He is the most English, but he’s got an American accent in so many movies. So it shouldn’t matter. And 
 ’s proof that it doesn’t matter. And recently I’ve tried – I’m playing a Sikh in 
 , I did 
 . 
 perhaps is again me... But it’s always been the best of what I’ve been offered, you can’t get beyond that. Maybe it’s a vibe I’ve given, I don’t know why. Maybe that’s my comfort zone of expressing myself. But I hope I get a chance to do more interesting characters like that. I would like to play a slightly loudmouthed Delhi guy. Sometimes what you get offered is not the most creative, they feel that something’s run, so let it keep going.
 
 
 
 
 What 
  it?
 
 
 
 
 But we’ve all known that’s wrong. Govinda went through that, everyone does. It’s timing. You say, ‘can I get away with two more of these and make a killing? And be really good, ’coz I’m really good at it now? Or are people fed up?’. Some people are smart enough to move, some people get complacent and wait for a disaster, or three, before they realise it.
 
 
 
 
 It’s a mess 
 . It makes me think, what is reality? It’s this crazy thing, your constructs and your ideas. the world changes pretty fast 
 . Fluidity. My father was pretty fluid. 1971, he lost the captaincy of India, lost his title, all in the same week. He was no longer a prince. So I was a prince for a year, ’coz I was born in 1970. So at least I am a genuine ex, erstwhile. But it was all for the good, it’s too expensive. They would give us a little money and say, run the estate 
  How? We had no money to look after them and ourselves. We didn’t grow up in an atmosphere of financial luxury, at all. But people don’t buy that... 
 
 Growing up in Delhi was kind of aimless for me. We were just partying and not doing much in the day. Films in India was never my dream job. 
 
 
 
 
 Nothing! My father sent me to an expensive school and he was like, my gift to you is an education. But I had no interest in academics, or, I knew I didn’t want to sit on a desk for eight hours and sell this or do that for a living. Somewhere it was artistic... so it was a top-class education, completely wasted, but it’s not wasted because there are many things an education gives you apart from a grade. And a respect for academia and knowledge and books and people and all that stuff, yeah. I mean, I’m half joking. But I think his idea was that I’ll end up a doctor or a lawyer or something like this – no, a doctor’s a bit much, for a Pataudi 
 . In my defence, I’d like to say – and this is politically incorrect – I’m the first Pataudi probably to have worked for a living in ten generations! But with that living, I restored the family home. I’d inherited not much except the name and the legacy... and the odd palace 
 .
 
 
 
 
 My quote is I’m really not sure who she was. But I have a great deal of respect for the Jaipur royal family and all the Rajasthanis, we used to play polo together, my grandfather did. So... I think it’s very sensible of Mr Rajamouli to make
 a fictional story and not the
 . It’s much less complicated it seems.
 
 
 
