NAGPUR: The dream of 32-year-old murder accused, who walked out of jail in January this year, to return to the mainstream of life by selling vegetables and working as painter shattered when he was bludgeoned and stoned to death by four unidentified assailants outside his residence at   on Friday. The motive behind the murder of Govardhan  , alias  , an accused in two murder cases, however, is yet to be ascertained.

 Even his 57-year-old father’s effort to rescue his son came in between his fragile physique and blurred vision as the assailants fled leaving his eldest son motionless on ground with smashed face and head. The latest murder of Balya was 31st so far this year. Though there had been a spate of murder cases this year, the statistics, however, reflected that there were 37 in this period last year. 
 
 “I wanted him to get married and settled in a family life but destiny had a different take on it. My wife Durga had committed suicide on my birthday in 2013 by jumping into a well. Since then, I am confused whether to rejoice or repent on my birthday. Last year, our younger son   too died due of illness. Now, I may have all the wealth in the world but it means nothing to me,” Balya father,  , said. 
 
 He said he could not spot the assailants’ faces properly but had heard the name ‘Kangaroo’ who had earring and curly hair. “My son too tried to fight back by chasing them with a stick but slipped on the ground and fell which gave the assailants chances to pound on him with sticks,” he said.
 
 It is learnt that the assailants snapped the power supply to the residence of the Shende family before plotting the attack in the dark. As Balya stepped out to find out the reason behind the power cut, the assailants first hurled stones on him before pouncing on him with sticks and rod. 
 
 It is reportedly said that Balya had asked a friend to remain with him as he was expecting an attack. The friend, who claimed before police to have tried to help him when attacked, has left the cops baffled by stating that he had no idea who may have targeted him. A senior police official, in the probe, said, “It is surprising that the victim would summon a friend for help expecting attack but would not share who might be behind it.” 
 
 Senior PI Satyavan Mane of Hudkeshwar police said various theories are being probed behind the murder. “We have rounded up many suspects including some goons identified as   but nothing materialized,” he said. 
 
 
