CHENNAI: Godman Nithyananda had a close shave on Monday, when the Madras high court first ordered his arrest, and a few moments later desisted from issuing an arrest warrant. It, however, did not mince words when it pointed out that scores of complaints were being received about the Nithyananda’s ashram, and that the court would ensure that the mutt vanished if such complaints continued.

 “He is not above all, only law prevails over everything in this court. Get the warrant from the court registry and arrest him,” Justice   told police personnel present in the court. He was hearing a petition seeking action against Nithyananda and to protect the  . The judge was infuriated by the delay on part of the godman in correcting certain misleading particulars furnished in his sworn affidavit, despite several reminders from the court.
 
 Though he proceeded to hear other cases after ordering Nithyananda’s arrest and his production in court on Tuesday, the judge conceded the request of the godman’s counsel a while later and did not issue the warrant. He adjourned the case to Wednesday, asking them to make necessary corrections by then.
 
 However, when he noticed a saffron-clad follower of Nithyananda texting on his phone, Justice   ordered the confiscation of the mobile phone. 
 
 “Who permitted you to record court proceedings? To whom were you sending messages about the proceeding? Don’t think that this court is a playground. I will see that your ashram vanishes. Hundreds of complaints are pending against it,” the judge said. He then directed police to secure the person and verify whether he had passed on any information about the proceedings or recorded it. The cellphone used by the disciple was directed to be kept in the custody of the court registry until further orders. 
 
 It all started with a petition filed by M Jagathalapradhapan of Madurai, seeking a direction to the government to take appropriate action against Nithyananda and protect the Madurai aadheenam. He also wanted the court to permanently injunct Nithyananda from interfering in the affairs of the aadheenam.
 
 When the plea came up for hearing, Justice Mahadevan had noticed certain misleading statements in Nithyananda’s affidavit and directed him to rectify it. He had also restrained him from entering into Madurai Aadheenam until further orders. On Monday, the judge was upset that even after repeated warnings, the godman had not rectified them. Cautioning them that he would be constrained to initiate suo motu criminal contempt of court proceedings against Nithyananda, he posted the case to Wednesday for further hearing.
 
 
