HYDERABAD: Groundwater, which is precious during summer, is highly polluted in parts of Hyderabad. Researchers have described its quality as “worst”. Apart from high salinity levels, the turbidity of groundwater ranges from reddish brown to yellowish.

 
 
  
 Areas within the core city with highly polluted groundwater are Bholakpur, Musheerabad, Ramnagar, Nallacheruvu, Peerzadiguda and Uppal. The groundwater in the areas abutting the river Musi is contaminated with salts and chemicals.
 
 Analysis of water samples by researchers from   reveals that localities studied are faced with groundwater contamination mainly from three sources — tanneries, pharma and chemical industries and the polluted river Musi.
 
 The study, published in the latest issue of the Journal of Environmental Science, Computer Science and Engineering & Technology, revealed that though pH of the samples was within permissible limits, total dissolved solids exceeded the maximum permissible limit prescribed by the  .
 
 The reason for contamination in Bholakpur is the presence of godowns of animal skins, bones and fat, plastic factories dealing with poisonous materials.
 
 “Increased concentrations of these elements pose potential sensory problems. Trace metal concentrations in the groundwater has increased several-fold over the years. This indicates that the polluted overlying water is influencing the quality of groundwater in Hyderabad,” the researchers said, warning that the environment of the city has become dangerous for human life.
 
 “The groundwater and effluent contamination has reached its peak level,” the study revealed.
 
 Locality-wise causes of groundwater pollution in the city include tanneries (Bholakpur), pharmaceutical industries ( ), domestic and industrial sewage in Musi river (Nallacheruvu, Peerzadiguda and Uppal). The researchers said most of the trace elements showed high concentrations (several orders of magnitude) in the city when compared with the global average standards. “Especially, salts like sodium, calcium, magnesium, and selenium are at peak levels, adding turbidity to water and making it the worst” in quality.
 
