Nagpur: Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and union transport minister Nitin Gadkari have decided to replace city BJP president Sudhakar  , who is Nagpur South MLA. There are various reasons for Kohale’s ouster.

 Former Nagpur South MLA Mohan Mate is the front-runner for his replacement. State BJP president Raosaheb Danve however, denied that there was any move to replace Kohale.
 
 Kohale had become the city president in January 2016 replacing Nagpur East MLA Krishna Khopade. Kohale belongs to Kunbi community while Khopade is a Teli. Mate is also a Kunbi and enjoys confidence of both Fadnavis and Gadkari.
 
 A source close to Fadnavis said that police cases of landgrabbing were going on against Kohale, which went against him. “Even though BJP did exceptionally well in Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) elections in 2017, he is not perceived to be instrumental in it. His performance as city president is not considered to be satisfactory,” the source added.
 
 “In addition, many BJP leaders have major problems with Kohale and they have become inactive in his tenure. With general elections scheduled next year, this is not a good sign. Kohale’s performance as an MLA is also considered to be satisfactory and he may not get the ticket next time. Mate might be his replacement,” the source further said.
 
 The source feels that Kohale should not bear a grudge towards the party if he is replaced. “He was a given a lot of important posts by the party in a very short time. He was given corporator’s ticket twice and was a trustee of Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) for five years. He was then given MLA ticket in October 2014 and then made the city president in January 2016. He progressed a lot in a short duration,” he said.
 
 Another source close to the CM said that many more senior office-bearers of city BJP would be replaced in the coming months. “We need leaders whom grassroot workers trust and respect. They should be performers and the idlers would get the boot,” he added.
 
 Meanwhile, there are indications that Nagpur West MLA Sudhakar Deshmukh may not get the ticket in 2019. “NIT trustee Bhushan Shingne may get a chance,” a BJP source said.
 
 
