CHENNAI: In a bid to allay apprehensions over the   of the Chennai Metropolitan Area ( ), the   ( ) is collecting public opinion in   and   districts on the ambitious plan. The development comes as the two-month window for the public to voice their objections and suggestions regarding the expansion of the metropolis ended in March.

 Official sources said the three meetings to gather the opinion of the locals would be organised in the headquarters of Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chennai districts in the second, third and fourth weeks of April respectively. “We have written to various government departments, district authorities and public representatives to participate in the meeting. People can share their views about the expansion on the occasion,” a CMDA official told TOI.
 
 The meetings are taking place at a time when a section of locals has raised concerns over threat to agricultural land in these districts that would be part of the Chennai Mega Region  . According to sources, representations have been received from farmers in Kancheepuram district about the status of farmlands after the expansion. “The expansion is meant for bringing the non-planning area under the ambit of planning. There would be framing of land use map, wherein areas identified as places with fertile land will be earmarked for agriculture purposes. Henceforth, there is no need to fear,” the official said.
 
 The CMDA has received less than 100 objections and suggestions over the expansion, sources said. Another issue that has come to the notice of the planning authority is escalation of taxes. “These are misconceptions because the town and country act does not deal about the taxation. That is the reason for holding such meetings to explain the expansion of CMA and clear doubts arising out of the proposal,” the official said.
 
 A fortnight ago, a PIL seeking to stop the seven-fold expansion of CMA was filed before the Madras high court stating that the CMDA did not possess the requisite manpower to handle such a huge expansion. When asked, official sources said the meetings were part of the process and CMDA has not finalised the expansion.
 
 The housing and urban development department had notified the proposal for expansion of CMA on January 22, 2018 and sought the public to provide their objections and suggestion within two months from the date of notification. While the existing CMA has an area of 1,189 square kilometres, it would be expanded to a total area of 8,878 square kilometres after the expansion.
 
 
