Panaji: The government on Monday started billing   from outside the state availing treatments at Goa Medical College (GMC) and Hospital as well as at the two district hospitals and sub-district hospital in Ponda.

 Of the total patients admitted at GMC till evening, 24 % were non-Goans whereas the percentage of outstation patients at out-patient departments (OPDs) stood at 19%. The registration fee at all three hospitals was raised for all patients from Monday. The fee for all patients at GMC was increased to Rs 100 whereas it was fixed at Rs 50 at the district hospitals.
 
 Health minister Vishwajit Rane, who took the initiative, said “We have started charging outstation patients. Including the registration fee, collection at GMC was Rs 2.7 lakh,” said Rane, adding that the entire system will fall in place after some time.
 
 The GMC, as well as other hospitals, have set up separate counters for non-Goan patients. 
 
 The health minister said while he had not received updates from district hospitals, the GMC OPDs attended 55 non-Goan patients from Karnataka (16), Maharashtra (11), and other states including Bihar. A total of 101 patients were admitted, of which 24 were from outside Goa who were admitted for surgical procedures, orthopaedics, urology, general surgery and paediatric attention. 
 
 “Some outstation patients who came as emergency cases were not charged at GMC,” said Rane. 
 
 The government had declared that though non-Goan patients will be charged, emergency cases, and poor patients will be exempted. 
 
 The hospital dean and medical superintendent have been entrusted to decide in such cases. Rane also said administrations of the government hospitals, have been directed to strictly check that Goan patients availing treatment swipe their Deen Dayal Swashtya Seva Yojna (DDSSY) card. The directive was issued as it was noticed that Goan patients availing medical facility at GMC and other district hospitals, did not swipe their DDSSY card in a bid to hoard their insurance cover amount to avail it at empaneled private hospitals.
 
 
