NEW DELHI: Just after   seized upon the PNB scam to seek parity with the   on the corruption plank, the arrest of   has presented itself with a fresh challenge, raising the question how the leadership might deal with it.

 The ruling BJP seems to be going bluntly ahead to kick back the corruption ball in the opposition's court after Congress and others in the opposition used scandals like the PNB scam and the highprofile escapes of scamsters on the saffron watch to put it on the back foot.
 
 The graft debate in 2014 saw Congress start with a massive deficit. While the escape of Vijay Mallya gave the opposition a talking point, the latter could not score over BJP. The demonetisation debate ended up helping the ruling party. BJP's edge, however, appeared to have been blunted with the court's not-guilty verdict in the 2G scam, which was BJP's flagship case against the UPA. The escape of PNB scam accused Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi put Congress on the offensive.
 
 Congress chief Rahul Gandhi took special delight in referring to Nirav as "Chhota Modi", making it the spear against the saffron mascot.
 
 However, the alleged case of corruption against the son of party veteran P Chidambaram seems to have reopened the clash that appeared headed the Congress way. Congress circles are convinced that BJP has chosen to retaliate by trying even stronger to fasten the graft charge on the aggressive Congress. The allegation about the involvement of the son-in-law of Punjab CM Amarinder Singh in a bank scam and the income tax notice to the wife of Congress leader Abhishek Singhvi has put the rival on the defensive.
 
 At the AICC press conference, the spokesman was asked about comments from BJP leaders that it was now the turn of Chidambaram, former Haryana CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Robert Vadra. The need for a relook at the strategy against the Modi government was evident on Wednesday. As Karti was arrested, Congress came out defending him, underlining that the party had changed its position on not speaking up for "individuals" facing allegations. As in case of Vadra, Congress first called him a "private individual" and kept mum, but later sided with him by saying the government was using the kin as proxies to target Congress leaders.
 
 Given a heavy political season ahead, starting with the   session from Monday, Congress sees Karti's arrest as a message from BJP that it would not stop from taking more drastic steps.
 
 However, there is optimism among Congress strategists that people have come to view the allegations against, or arrest of, Congress leaders as BJP's tack to "manage the headlines". The PNB scam and the escape of Nirav-Choksi, leaders said, had strengthened this perception.
 
