NEW DELHI: Disgruntled AAP functionary   has said that the “party does not belong to a coterie of two or three persons but to lakhs of workers”. Drawing a comparison with Chanakya, he said that when he was charged with sedition, he had replied that the “Nanda dynasty was not the Magadh empire.”

 Asked in ‘Aap Ki Adalat’ on India TV why he was not considered for   by his party, he replied – “Mere lehze mein ji-huzoor na tha, isse zyada mera kasoor na tha. (My only fault was that I wasn’t a sycophant). Rebutting deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia’s reported remark that his name was not on the list, Vishwas claimed he was not invited to the meeting of the political affairs committee (PAC) on the grounds that his name was there.
 
 But he added that those who were eventually nominated had prepared their affidavits on December 30, days before the PAC meeting, saying in effect that the meeting was an eyewash.
 
 He conceded that he had said in the past that he was not in politics for posts or power but also accepted that he had observed in private that out of the top three in AAP, one had become CM and another deputy CM while he had been left out.
 
 Observing that Raghuram Rajan’s rejection of AAP’s offer for an RS seat was an “insult” to the party, Vishwas said the rejection by 18 personalities indicates there was something wrong with the party. “Why is it that today nobody is ready to accept our Rajya Sabha ticket,” he asked.
 
 Asked why as a “younger brother”, he did not speak to Kejriwal, Vishwas said in a bitter vein: “I tried but could not speak. Yogendra was his elder brother, Anna Hazare was like his father and I his younger brother. I still wish he remains the leader, and let the party expand.”
  
 
 But he warned the party leadership against arrogance. “When we fought the Delhi elections after our nine-month-old government resigned, Modiji too had this misconception that he would win Delhi for his party. But people know everything and they wait till the 99th abuse by Sishupal, and then chop off the head of arrogance. I pray that god save such arrogant leaders from the wrath of people.” Lord Krishna had chopped off the head of Sishupal with his Sudarshan Chakra.
 
 Vishwas alleged that he was not allowed to campaign in Punjab on the ground that the “fanatic movement” was unhappy with him. He claimed he still faced protests from Khalistanis in US and elsewhere.
 
 Recalling how he had opposed   when the latter demanded evidence of the surgical strike from the Modi government on the ground that it would lower the morale of our troops, he claimed that the latter had shot back: “Modi should go first, then everything will be alright.”
 
 
