Chennai: It began as any other flustered urbanite’s quest to break out of the city’s chaos and commotion. Except that Abhinaya Rangarajan’s frequent trips to Karnataka’s remote villages led her to rural communities that are home to some of the country’s most exceptional traditional artisans, but with no   to call their own.

 So she started The Artist Project three years ago as a Facebook page that features unrecognised artisans from across India, with the aim of providing them   and a market. Abhinaya is among a growing tribe of young art and craft patrons with alternative careers, who are finding purpose in curating online marketplaces for lesser-known artisans. "Channapatna, for instance, is home to the largest wooden toy makers in India. Their wares are sold across the country, but the community back home had no clue, thanks to the middlemen they were dealing with," says Rangarajan.
 
 One of her most gifted finds is Swaminathan. As a student, Swaminathan took to weaving as therapy to battle autism. Over the years, his spontaneity with the loom improved, but it wasn’t until The Artist Project spotted him that his talent fetched him a clientele.
 
 While Swaminathan is from Chennai, many of the artisans these youngsters rope in hail from niche crafts communities in remote villages. And most are discovered when they are on the verge of throwing in the towel. "We also have state award winners who have represented India abroad at exhibitions. But, in India, their talent is undervalued," says Rangarajan. "We decided that the artisans would fix the prices themselves and we’d take care of the logistics. We now have 11 artisans from Chennapatna, Bhuj, Chennai, Dharmavaram, Auroville, Puducherry and Jaipur."
 
 While non-profits such as The Artist Project rely on the reach of social media, for some others, empowering skilled artisans who are falling by the wayside is also about putting together a solid revenue model.
 
 Delhi-based Medhavi Gandhi was interning with Unesco when she met artisans and realised that the culture of steep pricing for ‘handcrafted’ and ‘handmade’ was created by middlemen and big businesses. And none of the resulting profits reflected in the livelihood the   earned from it. "Artisans who often make it to urban exhibitions are picked up by big organisations or have the leverage with the respective state governments. They repeatedly showcase on these platforms, getting big clients and networking opportunities," says Gandhi, who established Happy Hands Foundation, which works for the revival of the arts. "But there are many artisans in the villages fighting to stay afloat."
 
 Gandhi’s typical scouting method involves following word-of-mouth references to remote villages, and meeting artisans in their homes or workshops. She also realised that to sell more, the artisans needed independence — of not just pricing but of their own aesthetic. "Designers employ karigars who can deftly reproduce their ideas, not thinking artists. So, when we spot the latter, we put them on to corporate clients and architects who can give them the freedom to work how they want and also remunerate them for it. There are no middlemen involved," says the 31-year-old.
 
 For some young entrepreneurs who have embarked on these journeys, the drive to sustain craft communities becomes more personal. Ankit Jha, 28, grew up watching his aunts and cousins create complex Madhubani paintings with ease and precision. Years later, when he heard they had given up the art form due to negligible profits, it shook him enough to quit his job as a software engineer and start emithilahaat.com, an online marketplace that promotes traditional Madhubani paintings from his hometown Darbhanga.
 
 Hailing from a family of seasoned Madhubani artisans gives Jha a strong command over the total business know-how and understanding of the challenges. This reflects in emithilahaat’s overarching mission — preservation and promotion of Madhubani artists from Mithila, a platform that gives them broader reach and global customers; elementary education, source of livelihood and healthcare.
 
 Far from the sporadic, ill-paying orders from middlemen, emithilahaat’s artists now sell at prices they fix themselves, get a minimum 25% profit share every quarter, collaborate with the design industry and are called to conduct workshops with corporates. They make anywhere between `10,000 and `15,000 from these workshops. "It is vital to help the artisans make their repertoire more versatile," says Gandhi. "We saw that when given the freedom and scope, our artists who customarily stuck to themes from the Mahabharata and Ramayana, began responding to events they saw around them — like the Tsunami and other news — by creating art themed on them. This is also a part of independent expression."
 
 
