Udhagamandalam: Getting documents registered might never have been so arduous for people than now when it is made online as the entire process is still Greek to a majority. And the training sessions to help lawyers in the Nilgiris, who by and large handle document registration in the district, master the art of online process don’t seem to have yielded the desired result with many of them still struggling. They take longer than usual to complete the process. The situation at sub-registrar office isn’t different either. Customers are forced to wait for long with the staff getting stuck at various stages of online registration process. The staff members don’t hesitate to say the system was unfamiliar to them. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had launched the online portal for registration on February 12 and the system of online registration came into effect from the very next day. “The problem is we can’t register a property the day we want to, but it was possible with the earlier system. Now, we have to first upload the documents online and wait for reference number from the sub-registrar office to proceed further,” said L Kumar (name changed), who has applied online for registration of a property. According to him, the time taken at the registrar office is also endless as the staff members were not well-versed with the system. Pointing out that it would take at least three months for things to stabilise, Dinesh, president of Nilgiris Bar Association said, “The department’s server faces technical snags frequently. We spend two to three hours to upload relevant documents but the website often crashes before saving them. Also, with the online procedure, a particular date for registration is not possible.” However, district registrar (admin) A S R Selvanarayanasamy lauded the online document registration system, saying even common man can do it. “There is no need for a lawyer or a document writer as anyone can upload documents online. The page also has an option to create a document online,” he said. Selvanarayanasamy said the online registration of documents was introduced after a trial run for three months. “Moreover, special training was imparted to advocates who deal with the registration,” he said. February 12 was an auspicious day and around 7,000 documents were registered online across the state. “It’s the usual number of registrations on any given auspicious day. Hence, it is wrong to say there is any sluggishness in registration,” the district registrar said. With five sub-registrar offices, Nilgiris on an average sees 38-50 registration of documents on any given auspicious day. “The speed of our server has been enhanced now and there is no difficulty in uploading documents,” Selvanarayanasamy said. On Tuesday, training was imparted to private parties running browsing centres to assist the public with online registration of documents. 