AHMEDABAD: Regular life was thrown out of gear on Monday as Dalit groups responded in force to a “Bharat Bandh” call — to protest the recent Supreme Court verdict and its guidelines on the implementation of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act — and enforced a shut down in several areas of the city.

 Reports of law and order incidents started tricking in from the early hours. A group of protesters vandalized an AMTS bus near Butbhavani Temple in Vejalpur, at about 1.15am. They then tried to torch the vehicle, but a police team thwarted them. By early morning, groups of protesters gathered near the Babasaheb Ambedkar statue in Sarangpur, the epicentre of protests by Dalits in Ahmedabad, shouting slogans against the judgment.
 
 City police said about 40-odd incidents of violence were reported in the city including arson, stone-pelting and assaults. The areas that were shut down included Chandkheda, Vadaj, Amraiwadi, Gomtipur, Saraspur and Danilimda. Protesters stopped court proceedings at Gheekanta and halted vehicle movements at the GSRTC bus depots near Gita Mandir and Ranip. Rail passengers at Kalupur railway station were caught in a bind as traffic was diverted in the vicinity.
 
 K L N Rao, the in-charge Ahmedabad commissioner of police, said four FIRs were registered at Khadia, Kalupur, Gomtipur and Shahibaug police stations. “Police had to lob teargas shells in Kalupur to disperse stone-pelting protesters. Stone pelting was witnessed in Gomtipur and Shahibaug too. We had adequate forces deployed and by Monday evening,” he said.
 
 “We are meeting with Dalit leaders. They assured the proteste would be peaceful. Areas where traffic was blocked in the morning and afternoon were cleared by the evening.We have beefed up patrolling with crime branch teams to maintain law and order,” said Ashok Kumar Yadav, additional CP, Sector II.
 
 Two FIRs were also lodged in Chandkheda and Ramol. Over 100 were detained and 25 arrested.
 
 The state government asked the home department for a detailed report on the protests and violence. Chief minister Vijay Rupani said, “We have already filed a review petition and hence the bandh call was unwarranted. We urge community leaders not to get carried away by political motivations and maintain peace,” he said.
 
 
