BENGALURU: Two Congolese students, including a 24-year-old woman, have been arrested by KG Halli police for allegedly attacking police constables, who were inquiring a road-rage incident in HBR Layout in East Bengaluru. 

 The arrested are Kalau Mujinga Jonathan, 22, and his female friend Kilambo Nzeba Clementine. Both are pursuing graduation in a private college and are residents of 5th Block, HBR Layout. The two were reportedly driving their car in a rash manner in the locality on January 15 and the cops,   and Basavraj Tonape, were informed about it. 
 
 Police said the duo allegedly attacked the policemen and also the public for questioning them about rash driving. The residents alleged that the duo had rammed a biker and also got into an argument with him. Anand and Basavraj, who were patrolling on Cheetah bikes in the area, intercepted the car behind Forest Road, However, the students rammed the police bike before stopping. Cops maintained the two were in an inebriated state.
 
 “When the constables questioned them about rash driving, the duo started abusing them. Meanwhile, a crowd gathered and started arguing with the duo. The woman and her friend slapped the policemen and tried to tear their uniform. Constable Anand alerted the police station and a nearby Hosyala patrol squad rushed to the spot. The miscreant also allegedly attacked head constables   and  , who arrived later,” a police officer said. 
 
 KG Halli police have registered a case against the duo based on a complaint lodged by constable Anand Shirol. Police have slapped IPC sections 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty) and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), along with 34 (act done by several people with common intention) against the duo.
 
 “We arrested the accused persons immediately and produced them before the court on Tuesday. Both are now lodged in  ,” a police officer said.
 
 
