BHOPAL: Gearing up for the forthcoming assembly elections in Madhya Pradesh, BJP national president   will unofficially launch the saffron party’s poll campaign on May 4. He will review the youth wing’s ‘Chalo Panchayat’ drive in 23,006 villages of the state. 

 Shah will also address a gala gathering of 5,000 workers, including working committee members, as a part of poll preparations in the state. The BJP chief visited the state in August last year to assess the situation after the agrarian crisis. He was scheduled to launch the party’s youth wing rally on January 31, but the programme was postponed. This will be Shah’s first visit to the state after BJP’s defeat in   and Kolaras bypolls, which were held in February.
 
 Ahead of Shah’s flash visit, BJP has begun ground work in crucial districts and called a meeting of the state working committee and heads of various bodies to prepare their plan for the village connect programme. Shah will also conduct separate meetings with members of the working committee and election management committee to chalk out a strategy for the upcoming polls.
 
 “The BJP president will launch party’s rural connect drive on May 4. He will also address the working committee and heads of various fronts at   in Bhopal. His visit also coincides with the appointment of new state president Rakesh Singh”, BJP state organisation general secretary Suhas Bhagat told TOI.
 
 Sources said that Shah will review performance of party leaders, execution of welfare schemes and the rural connect made by MLAs, besides discussing ways to boost the party in rural areas. He will also talk to the heads of 800 mandals and 58 organisational districts.
 
 The BJP president will also hold separate meetings with chief minister  , BJP state president   and convener of election management committee Narendra Singh Tomar. Party’s national vice-president Ramlal will also be present with Shah.
 
 “A meeting of state working committee will be held where more than 5,000 workers including core group members, state office-bearers, MPs, MLAs, district body members, heads and conveners of various fronts and forums, office-bearers of corporations, boards, mandi boards, part-time and full-time volunteers, members of district panchayat, Janpad and municipal bodies. The committee will also unanimously approve the appointment of party’s new state chief”, said a BJP press release. Shah’s visit will also work on BJP’s plan for ticket distribution and district-wise campaign by state office-bearers. Sources said that after taking feedback, the party will switch on to election mode after Shah’s visit.
 
 
