JAIPUR: The state government informed Rajasthan High Court that the   are being modernized in the state and will have state of the art facilities in near future.

 The government reply said that narco test facilities are also being set up to speed up the criminal justice system and the government has given nod for merging the finger print bureau with the police department for speedy investigation.
 
 The division bench of Justice M Rafiq and Justice   was hearing a suo motu petition on the modernization of laboratories.
 
 Advocate general   said that in order to overcome the staff shortage 18 lab assistants and 13 junior lab assistants were given appointment. He said, the construction of the regional FSL office at Bikaner, Ajmer and Bharatpur is in full swing.
 
 He said, for the Bikaner regional FSL, Rs 718.64 crore has been spent by March 31 this year.
 
 Similarly, the FSL building at Ajmer is also progressing well. The first floor of the building has been completed and Rs 10.30 crore has been allocated for the building construction. He informed that in Bharatpur construction is on at a 1000 square meter land of the lab and further 5000 square meter land is being allotted for expansion of the building.
 
 Lodha informed that the   New Delhi have been given orders for genetic analyser, venom detection kit, visara, DNA testing machines etc.
 
 He informed that an initial allocation of Rs 6 lakh has been made in the previous budget for this purpose.
 
 Court irked over slow pace of jail reforms
 
 Jaipur: Rajasthan High Court expressed its disappointment over the slow pace of the implementation of the guidelines on jail reforms issued by the court.
 
 The division bench of the court hearing the suo motu petition said on last March 22 Additional Chief secretary Home himself had appeared before the court and assured the court of speedy appointment of non- official volunteers (NOVs) but nothing has moved. Even the Supreme Court directions are not bee complied with.
 
 The court expressed his unhappiness over Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd (BHEL) which has been given the contract for installing jammers in Jails failing to maintain the system and upgradation, said amicus curie Prateek Kasliwal. The matter has been posted for next hearing on May 16.
 
 No hard copy of ‘cause list’ at court soon
 
 Rajasthan High Court Chief Justice   said that the hard copy of the daily ‘cause list’ would be done away with an online system as the high court is going hi-tech. He was speaking at the launch of the new wifi facility, mobile app at the high court campus in Jaipur on Wednesday.
 
 The Chief Justice said, efforts are also underway for uploading of reportable judgements on the same day as part of technology upgradation and also new website of the high court. Similarly, new gate pass system with photos also been introduced to tighten security of the court.
 
 
