JAIPUR: Mango lovers will have to shell out more to relish the fruit. The unprecedented rainfall, hailstorm and dust storm have adversely affected the crop since there has been a drop of 40% in its production in Gujarat, Aandhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. With the drop in its supply, the wholesale traders at Mohana Mandi said that there could be 30% rise in the prices of mangoes and the availability of various varieties won’t be seen in Jaipur and Rajasthan market before May 15. 

 Wholesale traders who are regularly in touch with the farmers of Uttar Pradesh, Maharastra and Andhra Pradesh said that the ongoing supply of the Safeda Mango which is used in juices and shakes is very less compared to last year. 
 
 “There is almost 30 percent drop in the supply of Mangoes this year. Poor weather in northern India, some parts of Maharastra and southern India has badly affected the  . In the retail no wonder the prices may be 30 percent higher compared to previous years,” said  , a wholesale Mango trader at the Mohana Mandi of Jaipur. 
 
 A few traders have also started getting Haafuz of Ratnagiri which is also known as Alfanso. “Presently it is been getting sold in Rs 1800 per box. A box has a dozen pieces. After the supply would be improved we are expecting it to sell in Rs 1200 to 1400 per box,” said  , president, Rajasthan Phal Sabzi Aaloo Thok Vyapar Mahasangh. 
 
 Traders said that actual supply of Mangoes would start from last week of May onwards. “If hail storm and dust storm spell may not continue for Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and some parts of Maharastra things may get improved. Some of the orchids of Uttar Pradesh including of Rampur, Maliabad and others are expecting the harvest of   by the second week of May,” said a trader.
 
 Traders said that for Mangoes the market and the weather conditions play a vital role for the calculation of prices of Mangoes. 
 
 Likewise, traders after getting inputs from the orchids and farmers said that there were delaying in the flowing of the Mangoes which has delayed its arrival in Rajasthan. 
 
 
