Chennai: The Tamil Nadu state board exams for Class 12 began on an easy note for most students who wrote their language paper 1 on Thursday. This was a common pattern across different language papers as students who opted for Tamil, Hindi, Sanskrit, French and Arabic reported it was an easy paper. However, a section of students found the Tamil paper lengthy.

 Teachers said among the different language papers, Tamil was comparatively more challenging than the others as five questions were slightly tough. “One-word questions were a bit tough but other sections seemed easier,” said Glory Stelma, Tamil teacher at Don Bosco School. 
 
 Following last year’s routine, students wrote their exam barefoot as shoes and socks were not allowed as part of the preventive measures to curb malpractices. Belts, water bottles, pencil pouches were also not allowed. A few centres, however, allowed transparent pouches. Students said their pockets were thoroughly checked. Mobile phones too were banned for invigilators and other officials on exam duty in the 2,794 centres. 
 
 School education minister K A Sengottaiyan visited Lady Wellington Higher Secondary School and inspected arrangements ahead of the exam. He said CCTV cameras have been installed in 296 strong rooms where question papers and answer scripts will be stored and monitored 24/7. Overall, 667 routes have been identified for transporting the papers to evaluation centres.
 
 Against the backdrop of the TRB scam, security measures have been beefed up as special observers too have been appointed.
 
 Sengottaiyan said strict action will be taken against any student/teacher or school for malpractice. 
 
 Flying squads carried out checks across exam centres. This year, a total of 45,000 teachers are supervising the exams along with 4,000 flying and standing squads.
 
 Meanwhile, 5,882 (boys 2,241 and girls 3641) students from 30 corporation schools took up the public examination at 14 centres across the city. Guide books for all subjects were provided to students to help them prepare for the exams, said an official statement.
 
 
