JALANDHAR: With the arrest of former Punjab Technical University ( ) vice-chancellor Rajneesh Arora by the Vigilance Bureau, names of RSS and   functionaries as well as their relatives have figured in a case of corruption for the first time in Punjab. Arora was ‘seh prant sanghchalak’ (state vice president) of RSS in Punjab, till a month before he was appointed VC in 2008.

 The   government of 2002-07, led by Capt   registered a number of cases against ministers of the previous SAD-BJP government of 1997-2002 under its anti-corruption drive. But no cases were registered against any BJP or RSS leader.
 
 In 2002-07, apart from former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal and his family, former minsters Sucha Singh Langah,   Kohar, Jagdish Singh Garcha, Sohan Singh Thandal and Tota Singh faced cases but no BJP leader was booked for any criminal act. When Amarinder took oath as CM in 2002, BJP government was in power at the Centre.
 
 This time, while no SAD leader has been booked yet, the Sangh Parivaar is facing a corruption case for the first time in the state. Sources said senior Sangh leaders are worried as besides Arora, who was an RSS member, most of the other accused were related to the RSS and BJP.
 
 “It is for the first time that name of relatives of a senior state-level RSS leader has figured in a corruption case. Vishawdeep, who was appointed assistant registrar on an ad-hoc basis, is the son of prant seh karyavah, Muneeshvar,” said a BJP leader.
 
 An RSS insider said, “The organisation is worried that the Sangh’s name is being sullied as the case involves financial irregularities besides irregularities in appointments.” Sources said RSS-BJP leaders are discussing ways to counter the negative publicity.
 
 While RSS has refrained from commenting directly, BJP and ABVP have reacted to the developments. Punjab BJP spokesperson Rakesh Shantidoot said the arrest of Arora, an RSS ideologue, smacked of political vendetta. He said Arora helped PTU gain credibility and recognition at the international level while it was earlier notorious as a den of corruption. ABVP state secretary Saurabh Kapoor also issued a statement criticising Arora’s arrest and said the former VC had in fact waged a war against massive corruption in PTU and is now being punished for that.
 
 
 
 Jalandhar: It is learnt that the state Vigilance Bureau is mainly focusing on records pertaining to the working and communications of NETiit, the company owned by Delhi-based Parveen Kumar, a close friend of former PTU vice-chancellor Rajneesh Arora. VB sleuths gathered records from PTU on Tuesday.
 
 On Wednesday, Bureau officials sought records from different branches of PTU. “Most of the records sought by them pertained to NETiit which provided ‘consultation’ to almost all branches of the University,” said a PTU official.
 
 In its FIR, the VB said NETiit was paid around Rs 25 crore for consultancy. After Arora’s arrest, the VB, on Jaunary 8, said PTU and NETiit arrived at an agreement on August 27, 2012, under which 8% of the admission fee was to be given as consultancy fee to the firm and the money was paid from part of the payment to regional centres and learning centres.
 
 A VB spokesperson claimed that on September 10, 2012, Punjab chief secretary-cum-chairman of the PTU board of governors filed an affidavit in the Punjab and Haryana high court saying that he had directed the university to withdraw appointment of the consultant immediately, which was not done, and an amount of Rs 24.37 crore was paid to Parveen for work till December 2014.
 
 “No details were provided during the enquiry conducted by the department concerned regarding services rendered by the said firm in the probe,” the VB spokesperson said. The VB also claimed that Arora and NETiit opened a camp office at Delhi and wasted Rs 1.65 crore arbitrarily in connivance with each other. 
 
 
