PURNIA: As the Central government gears up to implement its ambitious ‘Ude Desh Ka Aam Nagrik (UDAN)’ scheme, the demand to restore air connectivity from Purnia to other locations in the country has gained momentum. Local people, besides the medical fraternity, members of Purnia Chamber of Commerce and Traders’ Association, political leaders etc have not only demanded restoration of air services that was introduced in the recent past, but have also sought the intervention of central and state government to bring Purnia under UDAN Scheme.

 UDAN, a project of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and a strategic module of the National Civil Aviation Policy (NCAP), was envisaged by the ministry of civil aviation in 2016, amis at providing regional air connectivity at low cost. “The state government has to collaborate and enter into a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Airport Authority of India (AAI) for starting regional flight operations,” said sources adding, “Air services are already operational from Patna and Gaya and the process is on for commencement of flight operations from Darbhanga airbase. Whereas airstrips in Purnia, Bhagalpur, Kishanganj, Birpur, Valmiki Nagar, Rajgir and Gopalganj is likely to be developed in due course of time.”
 
 Social activist Vijay Kumar Shreevastava said, “Air service from Purnia was resumed in 2012. Flights operated from Chunapur Air Force station in Purnia. In fact, a private airlines had started a chartered air service between Patna airport, Chunapur Air Force station and Kolkata. The air service was later suspended in view of the high running cost. The need is to reduce the landing tax by the state government so that regular fight operations from Purnia can restart.”
 
 Radiologist Dr Rajni said that regular air services from Purnia will help to connect several districts of the north Bihar apart from Bengal (Bagdogra), other north-eastern states besides neighbouring countries like Nepal and Bhutan with the rest of India in view of its strategic location.
 
 Purnia JD (U) MP Santosh Kumar said the process of land acquisition of about 50 acres near Chunapur airbase is underway and efforts are on to resume regular air services for civilians from Purnia. 
 
 
