No other poll promise of the Congress has generated as much hype as the  , a scheme that evoked sharp reactions from farmers’ organizations and politicians alike. Even as farmers’ suicides continue, there are conflicting views on whether the relief would be a step in the right direction to eventually revive agriculture in the state.

 Pointing to the fact that mere announcement of the debt waiver scheme had disrupted the credit cycle of banks, Dr  , chancellor of the  , Bathinda, said the state government should not have made the promise if it did not have the financial resources to fulfill it. “I had handed over a list of suggestions to the Congress, which included how to make debt waiver really worthwhile with better criterion to identify beneficiaries,” he said.
 
 However, there are others who feel that the waiver was mere “eyewash” and has not brought any relief for the debt-ridden farmers. “The Congress had initially promised complete loan waiver that included loans from private banks and commission agents. But that has not been done. The state government has disbursed small amounts to farmers, which have done little to help them get rid of their debt,” said Subhash Sharma, director,  , Mohali.
 
 
 While seeking financial help for the debt waiver scheme, the Punjab government has even suggested a special cess of 0.5% on payees with more than Rs 5 lakh annual income with a view to creating a corpus for bailing out beleaguered farmers.
 
 
 The state government has allocated Rs 1,500 crore in the 2017-18 budget for the debt waiver but it plans to raise Rs 10,000-crore loan for the remaining amount. In first phase, as many as 3,20,395 cases of beneficiaries were selected under the scheme. The Sangrur district tops the list with 34,409 cases, whereas 772 cases were reported from the   district.
 
 
 The total farm debt in Punjab amounted to more than Rs 80,000 crore, including the crop loans in the cooperative sector amounting to about Rs 12,500 crore. The average debt per farm household in Punjab works out to be Rs 8 lakh (including crop loan), while the state’s per hectare debt of small and marginal farmers was the highest in India.
 
 
 “Indebtedness in Punjab is due to both institutional and non-institutional loans but the state will not be able to access the account books of the commission agents. Farmers’ associations are already holding protests in the state to demand a complete loan waiver,” said  , RBI chair professor at Centre for Research and Industrial Development (CRRID), adding, “In Punjab, farmers will have remain dependent on commission agents as rural folks turn to them for taking credit for personal consumption, including marriages and other functions. The fallout of the high indebtedness also leads to farmer suicides. The loan waiver is not a solution to the problem,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Amrik Singh, 56, of Sivian village in Bathinda, owns two acres of land and owes Rs 2 lakh to a bank and Rs 40,000 to a co-op society besides Rs 50,000 to a money lender. “I have got my name in the list for ?30,000 waiver, but this will not erase my family's miseries. The government had promised waiver of all loans. Farmers can only find solace if it at least waives off the loans owed to the banks”, says Amrik.
 
 
 
 
 
 Fifty-year-old Antar Singh of Bhainibagha village in Mansa owes Rs 1.5 lakh to a bank, Rs 2 lakh to an arhtiya and Rs 55,000 to a cooperative society. Antar says, “The waiver will provide some relief to the family, but is not enough to provide a stress-free life. The bank authorities want the repayment for which I hope the state government will come to the rescue”.
 
 
 
 Darshan Singh, 57, of Miserkhana village in Bathinda, owes Rs 1.5 lakh to the SBI, Rs 1 lakh to a commission agent and Rs 14,000 to a cooperative society. “The state government has tried to provide relief to indebted farmers, but waiver of cooperative loans alone will not serve the desired purpose. The government needs to stand by the aggrieved farmers and waive off all loans,” said Darshan.
 
 
 
 
 Labh Singh, 66, of Chathewala village in Bathinda owes Rs 2 lakh to a bank, Rs 21,000 to a co-op society and Rs 80,000 to an arhtiya. “We had high hopes when Amarinder came to power. However, after he announced the loan waiver for only the cooperative debts, we feel we are back at square one,” said Labh.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Thirty-eight-year-old Jasdeep Kaur of Kothaguru village in Bathinda feels her life is a curse. After losing her husband Makhan Singh, 40, on July 12, 2015, it has been tough bringing up her two teenaged daughters. With her father-in-law the only male member in the family, they make living by sewing clothes for people. Makhan owned only an acre of land but used to take another five acres on lease. He had taken a loan of Rs 4.5 lakh from a bank and a commission agent. He committed suicide by jumping before a train at Lehra Mohabbat. “For us life has lost its meaning. We somehow are making both ends meet and curse the moment when he ended his life,” says Jasdeep.
 
 
 
 
 
 Gurnam Singh, 67, of Jhanduke village in Bathinda is an unfortunate father who lost his son to debt. His son Jagjeet Singh, 45, consumed poison on January 29, 2018 despite the state government having already started the debt waiver scheme. With little over 2.5 acres of land, the family owed Rs 1.60 lakh to a commission agent, Rs 85,000 to a primary agriculture cooperative society and Rs 83,000 to Punjab State Agriculture Development Bank. “We are heartbroken after losing the son to debt. We do not know how we will be able to repay the debt. Let the government keep its word of waiver without putting any conditions and bereaved families like us can survive,” said Gurnam.
 
 
 
 
 
 After 57-year Dalwinder Singh, of Killianwali village in the Muktsar district committed suicide by consuming poison on April 16, 2016, “life has become hell” for his bereaved wife Charanjit Kaur and son Gurnam Singh. The family's financial condition looks dismal too. They are unable to repay the loan of Rs 5.5 lakh. The family owes Rs 1.5 lakh to a bank, Rs 3 lakh to a money lender and Rs 1 lakh to their relatives. “We suffered cotton crop failure in 2015-16 and then got low yield of wheat in 2016. My father could not face the fact that we will not be able to repay loan and consumed poison in the fields and ended life. Now we are at the cross roads,” said 30-year-old Gurnam.
 
 
 
 
 
 Life has been a struggle for Teja Singh of Khiala Kalan village in Mansa after he lost two sons to debt. With 2.5 acres of land, family owes Rs 3 lakhs. His younger son Baljit Singh, then 26, consumed poison 7 years ago. His elder son Dalbara Singh ended life on July 6, 2013, and left behind wife Mandeep Kaur, a daughter and son. The MLAs’ committee formed by the Punjab assembly speaker had visited them too, but no waiver has been received. “I am the only male member left in the family apart from my grandson. We are unable to repay the loan and our only hope is for the state government to waive the debt and provide compensation so that we can educate the grandchildren,” said Teja Singh.
 
 
 
 
 Karamjit Kaur, 42, is fighting against the odds after her husband Ranjit Singh alias Bagga Singh committed suicide on July 16, 2014 by hanging himself. Then 40, he was under depression for not being able to repay the Rs 5 lakh loan despite selling a part of his land. After his death, the family sold two acres to repay the debt. Karamjit now looks much older than her age. She is the sole care-giver to her mother-in-law Surjit Kaur, her 18-year-old daughter Kiranjit Kaur and physically-challenged 16-year-old son Jagsir Singh. “Our world came to an end when my husband committed suicide due to debt. We failed to get any assistance and are somehow making both ends meet,” says Karamjit.
 
 
