LUDHIANA: A city-based girl, Gurkirat Rai, a student of   (Doraha), has clinched the winning title in a prominent Punjabi voice show grand final, which went on air on a television channel on Saturday during the late evening hours. She overcame more than 10,000 contestants to secure the ultimate win in the voice show, which has produced a number of Punjab singing sensations.

 Gurkirat, who was on cloud nine, told mediapersons: “I am excited and happy over my success in this prominent Punjabi voice show, which was well known across the state. But this was only possible because of the efforts put in by my mentor and teacher  , my father Hakirat Rai, and my institution as well. I was very confident from the beginning of this show, and had it in my mind that somewhere I would emerge victorious with flying colours.”
 
 She added: “I have also faced several ups and down in my journey, as I come from a middle class family, and it has become difficult to get professional singing training due to its high cost, but I always have faith in God. Apart from getting a cash prize of Rs 1 lakh, I got an opportunity to get a free trip to Dubai. Moreover, I will soon record my single track under the able guidance of famous Bollywood singer Mika Singh, said Gurkirat.
 
 Gurkirat’s mentor Prof Rampal Banga, who teaches in the same college, stated: “I was speechless over the success of Gurkirat, who has the capability to mould her voice as per the demand of the song. She has great command over her voice in Sufi singing, ghazal, duet song, folk singing, all are equally her cup of tea.”
 
 General secretary of the college management committee Harpratap Brar expressed: “We are proud to have such a tremendous talent with us. Our effort is to bring out raw talent from villages and nourish them to a great extent so that they can come out victorious.”
 
 Principal Dr   stated: “Gurkirat has done the institution proud, and we are really enamoured to hear about her victory. She worked a lot with single-minded devotion, and did not falter at any moment of time.” 
 
 
