NEW DELHI: For any encroachment   to have a lasting impact, the focus has to be on ridding the city of its perennial congestion problem, say experts. Several key steps — some already in pipeline and others less popular and, thus, in cold storage — need to be fast-tracked. 

 Sewa Ram, professor of transport planning at SPA, said the city would not be in such a mess if the informal sector had been looked at in a more planned manner. “UTTIPEC has created a concept of multi-utility zone that has space for the informal sector, but the courts are going by existing regulations and provisions.” He argued that vendors couldn’t be done without, but streets had never been designed accordingly. Merely declaring places spots as no-vending or no-parking zones won’t help. “We have to provide space based on utility and actual characteristics. A cobbler, for example, can’t be asked to go where there is no footfall.” 
 
 Ram faulted civic bodies for allowing parking on upper hierarchy of arterial roads. Also, though the number of shared cabs has grown exponentially over the last few years, the city doesn’t have a single dedicated parking slot for hire-mode vehicles. “We need a comprehensive mobility plan,” he said, insisting on the need to set up parking plazas.
 
 It’s not that planners with civic bodies don’t know that the lack of integration of planning and implementing agencies has led to the current crisis. A senior town planner from the corporation said that if the local area planning (under Delhi Master Plan 2021) experiment had been extended, it could have created area-specific solutions. “The idea was to devise separate plans for all the 104 wards with the help of local representatives. There were some problems and the idea was never carried through,” he said. Another official said there was no overall vision behind setting up new parking lots. “We have this state-of-the-art automated facility in Kamla Nagar, but much of it lies vacant. No study has been carried out to understand why these lots are underutilised,” he said.
 
 Experts also talked about the need to set up town vending committees, which could help allocate dedicated spaces for vendors, and a policy to discourage on-street parking. 
 
 Former commissioners blamed multiplicity of authorities for the problem. KS Mehra, former MCD commissioner, said: “There needs to be proper surveillance of areas where encroachment is a major issue. The encroachment drive will help only if monitoring is done on regular basis.” Rakesh Mehta, another ex-commissioner, said while laws were in place, there was no implementation.
 
 
