On the busy, dusty Regimental Bazaar road, tucked away in a corner near the Oriental Bank, is an obscure chaat bandi. What sets this otherwise unremarkable roadside stall apart isn’t the paani puri, cutlets or ragada patties dished out here, but the young girl toiling away in the heat and grime, serving the dishes. Meet  , an   topper from Government Girl’s High School, West Marredpally, who scored a cool 9.7 GPA in this year’s state board exam. 
“My elder sister   stood first in school last year, and that’s what inspired me to emulate her feat,” says Sandhya, with an impish shy grin, even as she serves a customer a plate of piping hot cutlet.
 But why then is she working at the bandi? Where are her parents, we enquire. “My father passed away long ago, and ever since it’s our mother, Radha, who has been raising us single-handedly. She’s been complaining of an inflammation in her neck, so she went to see the doctor. She must be on her way back now,” Sandhya informs.
 The lives of Sandhya and her family revolve around their paani puri stall. “Our mother works here everyday from 12 in the afternoon to 11 at night. I come here after returning from college in the evening while Sandhya used to come straight from school to help mother out,” says Manisha.
 How did she manage to find time to study, if she worked till 11 pm daily? “Our teachers always say early mornings are the best time to study. So, I’d wake up at 3 am daily to study,” Sandhya reveals. It was close to 7:30 pm when Radha finally returned, and the girls lit up at the sight of their mother. Introducing her to us, Sandhya said, “She strived all her life to educate both of us. I want to work hard and excel in studies so that I can provide a better life for her.”
 A native of Narayankhed, Sangareddy district, Radha moved to Hyderabad over 20 years ago. “We started this paani puri business back then but my husband suffered a fatal heart-attack in 2006 and that put an end to our dreams. No relative of ours came forward to help us and I was left to fend for myself. With four little children to provide for, I found it hard to make ends meet. But with time I learnt to manage. Educating my children was always a priority though,” explains Radha, fighting back tears. 
 A fierce will to “do whatever it takes” to ensure that her children have a better life is what drives Radha. “I didn’t want to see my children depend on someone for help, that is why I’ve struggled to get them educated at any cost,” she explains adding, “Now, I just hope that Sandhya gets a free seat to pursue her Intermediate studies.”
 Sandhya nods in agreement. She dreams of becoming an engineer and has pinned her hopes on getting a free seat in IIIT Basar. “It is my dream to study at IIIT. My school management is trying to get me a free seat in the 6 Year Integrated B.Tech programme based on my merit. I’m praying that it comes through,” says Sandhya, signing off.
 
