LUDHIANA: A day after a married woman levelled molestation allegations against the assistant commissioner of police (ACP), a social worker who claimed to have accompanied her to meet the cop said the officer was not at fault.

 On Saturday evening, a married woman created furore, alleging ACP (east)   molested her at his office in Division 7 police station, where he had called her after she lodged a complaint against her brother for usurping her property. Late Saturday night, she got herself medically examined at the civil hospital and also filed a complaint at the 181 helpline number.
 
 Sandeep Singh Grewal, the social worker, said after the woman came to him crying, they telephoned the ACP, who said he could come to the office at 4pm on Saturday, the time when he also called the woman and her brother. He added that the woman also told them that her brother had stolen Rs 25,000 from her house, too.
 
 The social worker claimed that the woman was framing the ACP, as they were with her at that time and she left before them.
 
 The ACP, refuting the allegations, said she was trying to pressurise the police. He said as the two parties had a property dispute, the woman and her brother came to meet him in his office on Saturday and at that time Division 7 SHO and women constables were present there.
 
 “The woman appeared to be suffering from depression. When her brother showed her objectionable pictures, she got infuriated and went outside saying that she was going to kill herself. The women constables stopped her and I assured that the matter would be looked into. Later, I came to know that she has made such frivolous allegations against me,” said the ACP (east).
 
 The woman alleged that she had registered a complaint against her brother and sister after which the ACP called her. She said her brother had some pictures of her, which he showed to the ACP, who took her to another room, sent away her child and molested her. She said the ACP slapped her when she protested.
 
 Acting SHO of Division 7 police station   said they had received only property-related complaints by the two parties and not of molestation.
 
 The press conference organized by the social worker was attended by   councillor from ward 14 Kuldeep Janda and husband of Congress councillor from ward 9 Happy Randhawa, among others.
 
 
