NAGPUR: A fire broke out in a recently constructed commercial complex at   on Wednesday afternoon. The incident exposed major violations in the G+3 floor building, hinting at a nexus between the developer and   (NMC) officials.

 
 
 
 An official from NMC fire department told TOI the exact reason for the fire could not be ascertained. “A bowling alley is under construction on the third floor, where the fire broke out. Some said an AC exploded causing the fire. Some said sparks from welding works caused a fire in the bushes at the rear of the building. The fire was easily brought under control within a couple of hours,” he said.
 
 NMC records show developer Indo Agro Synergy Limited got sanction for the building plan and obtained fire   in February last year. Two restaurants are in operation on the ground floor, two offices on the first floor, and a coaching class on the second floor. The building lacks fire compliance and occupancy certificate.
 
 Besides, the developer has only started construction of a fire escape staircase, which is supposed to be ready before bringing the building into use. Surprisingly, the fire staircase is being constructed on the ramp to the basement parking.
 
 The official said firemen had to use the regular staircase to go up and douse the fire. “Side margins on two sides are not vacant. Fire tenders were parked on two adjacent roads. Construction has been done in side margins. Many of the fire systems are not in place in the building,” he said.
 
 Even the basement parking is not ready, even though two restaurants and coaching class are operating in the building, where a large number of vehicles must be arriving. Two-wheelers and four-wheelers were parked on the road creating congestion.
 
 The officials of town planning, and fire department, and Dharampeth Zone have not taken any action even though the building is situated right behind the NMC head office.
 
 Chief fire officer Rajendra Uchake said an inspection will be followed by action in case there are violations in the building.
 
 This is the second fire incident in a commercial building in last two days. There was a fire in one of the shops at Eternity Mall, Sitabuldi, on Tuesday.
 
 
