KOLKATA: Pyotr Illyich Tchaikovsky’s legendary classic ‘Swan Lake’, a favourite among ballet lovers, is in town for a three-day event from Thursday. And the city has already displayed its interest, as was evident from Nazrul Mancha declaring the first show ‘housefull’ on Thursday evening.

 Choreographed by Vladimir Troschenko and directed by Anatgioly Kazatsky, both veteran ballet artists, the current edition of the ballet has been facilitated by  , an Indian house that facilitates art and culture promotion. Before coming to Kolkata, the troupe performed in Mumbai, Delhi and Ahmedabad.
 
 Tchaikovsky was the leading exponent of 19th Century Romanticism in its characteristically Russian mould, which owed much to the French, Italian, and German traditions. The music was structured in broad gestures and treated in the manner of a symphony. Initially, Tchaikovsky’s innovations were deemed too complex to find initial acceptance and success. It took a lot of critical understanding over the years to appreciate the complex musical composition before becoming a favourite. Created in 1875-76, ‘Swan Lake’ has it all — from a bewitched queen, a doomed prince and cunning villains.
 
 “It’s poetic and its vacillations of energy are extraordinary and I will be delighted to be caught in its vortex on April 14, when I watch it,” said Arpita Roy, a senior teacher at La Martiniere for Boys School.
 
 College teacher Apala Sengupta, also a classical dancer, said: “The internet offers some versions of ‘Swan Lake’ performances from the archives and I have watched them many times. I am a Russian ballet fan. So when I heard that there would be a performance at Nazrul Mancha, I bought tickets for the entire family.”
 
 Tchaikovsky’s score captures a range of human emotions — from hope to despair, from terror to tenderness, from melancholy to ecstasy, she felt.
 
 The moods extend from the exquisitely tender violin solo of the Swan Dance Andante to the thundering explosions of the finale, with an abundance of vividly variegated numbers in between. The twinned role of the radiant white swan and the scheming, duplicitous black swan tests the full range of a ballerina’s powers. Adored by audiences for over 140 years, Tchaikovsky’s choreography has passed from one generation to the next unchanged. This current production, too, has minimal deviation from the original.
 
