GHAZIABAD: A coordinated effort by several government agencies, spearheaded by   (GMC), has resulted in Ghaziabad being named the fastest moving big city in Swachh Survekshan 2018, results of which were declared by the Union housing and urban affairs ministry on Wednesday. 

 Ghaziabad moved up to rank 36 from 351 in 2017, in the pan-India exercise conducted by the central government across 4,203 cities to assess cleanliness in urban areas. A year before, in 2016, the city was ranked 67 among 73 cities, till thousands more cities were included under the survey in 2017, pushing its rank further down.
 
 A lot remains to be done, though, as proximity to the national capital means the city should strive to benchmark itself with the leaders. But the task might get more difficult in the coming years, as it is easier to move up the ranks when you start from a low base, than when competing with the best.
 
 According to GMC, a number of initiatives undertaken over the past year, has resulted in this quantum leap. These include introduction of door-to-door garbage collection using 335 vehicles with GPS tracking in 82 wards since June 2017, construction of 100 community toilets with 417 seats across the city, and renovation of existing toilets. 
 
 In 2017, the civic body had also introduced night-sweeping in 24 areas to reduce pollution, and to pick up garbage from 100 points. Over 300 unauthorised garbage dumps were sanitized and the areas cordoned off for beautification. The civic body also imposed massive fines for littering, and collected around Rs 50 lakh in penalties.
 
 The city generates around 850 metric tonnes of solid waste daily, of which, 200 tonnes is sent to a waste-to-energy plant in neighbouring   for conversion into electricity, while around 100 tonnes is used for composting in around 250 parks in the city. 
 
 The Pratap Vihar dumping ground receives 300 tonnes of waste, some of which is sent to a waste-to-compost plant in Kavi Nagar.
 
 “We’ve roped in an NGO, Chintan, whose staff segregate recyclable material at source. This reduces the total amount of solid waste at the disposal point. Night-sweeping has been outsourced to private firms. Around 100 points have been earmarked in busy areas, including Vaishali, Raj Nagar District Centre, Kavi Nagar, Vasundhara and near Kaushambi metro station, from where garbage is picked up by vans,” municipal commissioner Chandra Prakash Singh told TOI.
 
 Six automatic sweeping machines were also deployed across the city. GMC has also employed online measures like the Swachhata App to register complaints. “There was manpower crunch, but we roped in government employees from even other departments. The next challenge is to ensure the system works without rigorous supervision, and to extend the services to the remaining 18 wards,” said Singh.
 
  intends to take the mission further by making Indirapuram housing societies adopt a solid waste management model in high-rise housing societies. GDA is already in talks with Federation of Apartment Owners’ Association (FedAOA) to rope in the societies for the purpose, so that some composting and segregation happens at source. 
 
 Several good practices of other civic bodies are being implemented, such as construction of five solid waste sorting-cum-transfer stations in the district in the first phase, and 10 in total. “Once functional, solid waste will be brought here for segregation and compression, then transferred to the landfill site, to reduce costs involved in their transfer. Around Rs 90 lakh will be spent on constructing one such transfer station,” Singh added.
 
 
