NAGPUR: Consistency had been  's bane in the past. The tall right-hander has every shot in the book but somehow he failed to execute them at right time. It was only three years ago, he learned the importance of performing consistently.

 
 Three years later, the 25-year-old is rewarded for his consistency. The Vidarbha middle order batsman will now play for Kolkata Knight Riders (KKR)-who bought him for his base price of Rs 20 lakh-in the coming Indian Premier League.
 
 Wankhade is consistently finishing the matches for Vidarbha in shorter formats for the last three years. While he just missed out in the   and Rising Pune Supergiant teams in the last two years, this year finally he got the breakthrough.
 
 KKR talent scout and renowned video analyst AR Srikkanth was keeping an eye on Wankhade's performance for long. "When we were looking for the lower order domestic batsman, the first name came to my mind was Apoorv (Wankhade)," Srikkanth told TOI from Bengaluru on Sunday after the   auction.
 
 "We were looking for someone who had the ability to clear the boundary at will. We were also looking for talent and temperament. I have been following Apoorv's career for some time now. He has consistently performed for Vidarbha in tough situations, coming in and scoring that 30 odds in 15 balls or 40 odds in 20 balls. Also, he has some ground reality experience with Mumbai Indians and it helped his case," Srikkanth explained.
 
 Three years ago, Wankhade was branded as a "typical Twenty20 cricketer". Wankhade's clean hitting was proving to be a double-edged sword for him. Despite putting several match-winning performances in longer formats, he was finding it difficult to break into Vidarbha side. After being ignored, he went to his Under-19 coach and mentor   for guidance.
 
 "Since, I had seen him from his early days, I knew his strengths and weaknesses. I told him to concentrate on his defence and be disciplined. I told him 'I know you can hit, now show me you can bat'," Kulkarni, now Nepal batting coach, said while speaking to TOI from Kathmandu on Sunday.
 
 No wonder Kulkarni was elated to see his ward being selected by KKR. "He deserves to be there. I would like to thank the franchisee to choose the right talent. He has always been a fantastic limited overs player. I hope he gets the opportunity to prove," Kulkarni, also a former Vidarbha coach, said.
 
 Wankhade scored 197 runs in   Trophy at an average of 49.25 in 2015-16 and remained unbeaten in 5 innings. In 2016-17, he finished three out of five matches. Interestingly, his strike rate last year was 151.61 as compared to 122.36 in 2015-16. This year also he emerged the highest run scorer for Vidarbha in testing conditions in Raipur. He effortlessly cleared big boundaries of Shaheed Veer Narayan Singh stadium.
 
 Last year, Wankhade was instrumental in Vidarbha's success in Vijay Hazare One-day Trophy where they topped the pool. Wankhade averaged 81 and finished three games for Vidarbha. He and Akshay Karnewar took India allrounder Hardik Pandya to cleaners during Baroda game as he went for 73 in his nine overs. Wankhade was selected for Deodhar Trophy but he injured his finger.
 
 Former Mumbai Indians coach   too was impressed with Wankhade's finishing abilities. "I am glad Apoorv has done well this season. He is the kind of cricketer a coach would love to see do well because he works very hard on his game. I saw him in Jaipur last year when he was just starting to develop his game. It's great that he has had some success," Wright, who was the coach when Wankhade was in MI fold, said about his ward.
 
