Vadodara: A drug dealer and two woman carriers were sentenced to 10 years rigorous imprisonment by an additional sessions court here on Wednesday in a three-year-old drug seizure case done by Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). Drug carrier Mumtaj Meman and her daughter Ruksana Pathan were nabbed by NCB sleuths from Swaraj Express train at Vadodara railway station on February 22, 2014 while they were travelling from New Delhi to Bharuch carrying 26 kilogram of marijuana.  The drug dealer Munna Sheikh, whom the mother-daughter duo was to deliver the consignment, was also picked up the agency on the same evening from his residence in Ankleshwar. During the course of investigation, Meman told the cops that she had started carrying drugs between New Delhi and Surat around 2009 after she got in touch with a woman from Surat. After carrying couple of consignments, Meman got in touch with one Aminbhai, who hailed from Kashmir. She used to carry small consignments, but when 26 kilogram of marijuana was to be carried, she took help of her daughter Pathan. Probe also revealed that Sheikh was to take a part of the consignment and the remaining part of the drugs was to be taken by two persons from Ankleshwar whom he did not know. The NCB filed a chargesheet against them in the court in August 2014. “During the trial there were many witnesses who testified against the trio and their statements were upheld by the court. Also, the NCB had got enough evidences which proved that the trio conspired to ferry drugs,” said additional public prosecutor HR Joshi. The court of additional sessions judge K M Sojitra also slapped a fine of Rs 1 lakh on the trio. On failure to pay the fine, the imprisonment will be extended by another year, the court stated in the judgement. Sheikh convicted second time This was not the first time that Munna Sheikh was convicted by a court in a drugs smuggling case. Sheikh was sentenced to 10 years of imprisonment in 1997 too for carrying two kilogram of opium. After he was released in 2008 from jail, he got in touch with Meman and Amin bhai and started dealing in marijuana with them.