LUCKNOW/BHUBANESWAR: After years of relentless pursuit,   on Tuesday arrested Lucknow-based jeweller   Agarwal(37), who was on the run after allegedly killing his wife and two kids in a seaside hotel at Puri in December 2013.

 
 Officials of CBI’s Kolkata zone traced   in Indore on May 27 and took him to Bhubaneswar on Monday. Agarwal was found working under a contractor in Indore using a different identity. CBI located him after tracking the phone numbers of his family, relatives, friends and acquaintances. “We have arrested him and produced him in a court at Bhubaneswar. We will take him in custodial remand for further interrogation,” said a CBI officer.
 
 Bodies of Amit’s wife  , daughter Vaani and son   had been found from a hotel room in Puri on December 15, 2013.
 
 Amit, a bullion trader in Lucknow, was the main accused in the case and had been on the run since. Though Lucknow and Puri police jointly probed the case initially, CBI took up the investigation later on following an Orissa high court directive. CBI said Agarwal had gone bankrupt and planned to commit suicide after killing his family members. But, he got scared of death after killing his wife and children and fled.
 
 “He had incurred loss of around Rs 70 lakh and had borrowed huge amount of money from market. After killing his family members, he got scared and dropped the plan of ending his own life,” the officer said.
 
 Amit was a ‘dabba’ operator. ‘Dabba’ is an illegal form of stock market trading in which patrons execute market calls only through books (offline entries maintained on registers) and not through the proper stock exchange to save commission, brokerage and to evade taxes.
 
 Though no trader lodged a formal police complaint, officials associated with the probe in Lucknow said several crores were riding on Amit when he decided to disappear.
 
 Amit and his family had left their Lucknow home on August 18, 2013. UP police had on August 20, 2013 found his car abandoned near Allahabad and found a suicide note in which he allegedly stated that he was going to commit suicide with his family members. The family checked into a hotel in Puri on December 9, 2013.
 
