MUMBAI:   (PNB) will re-evaluate its capital requirements after the FY18 results. Given that the government has increased its stake in   to 63%, the lender has head room to raise Rs 3,016 crore from the market at current prices.

 Speaking to TOI, PNB chairman   said that on the asset quality side, the objective was to bring down non-performing assets ( ) to below 2%, and ultimately to less than 1%. He, however, did not specify the time frame. According to Mehta, the trend had been changing on asset quality and the focus now would be to arrest the decline in asset quality and prepare for a positive economic cycle.
 
 Analysts are expecting PNB to report one of its worst results for the quarter ended March 2018 on account of the hit the bank has taken due to the   fraud. Besides the provisions for fraud, analysts are also concerned about the worsening asset quality on account of more stringent norms for recognising NPAs. The bank is expected to report its results in mid-May.
 
  
  
  
 Mehta said that the bank was moving ahead on its Project Parivarthan, which was launched in the first quarter of the previous fiscal. Under this, the bank aims to improve its bottom line on 10 parameters —  , asset quality, recovery,  , vigilance, alternate delivery channel, retail business, turnaround time, ambience, and new relationship. “The idea is to ring-fence issues and move forward,” said Mehta.
 
 Mehta said he was positive on bad loan resolution because most of the NPAs were “lumpy” . “The NPA accumulation has taken place in iron & steel, infrastructure, textiles and telecom. With the resolution process under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, the lumpiness will start falling off,” he said. “We will be also looking at branch optimisation. Today, if you go places, you will find six public sector banks in the same location. We will look at relocating some of the branches and also look at our 9,600 ATM network,” Mehta said.
 
 “The bedrock of our growth from here will be our human resources. We have a young team with 65% of our staff below 35 years, and 52% of our employees are millennial. They are well placed to support our digital journey, which we plan to leapfrog directly to data analytics,” said Mehta.
 
 
