Vadodara: Karjan police booked five persons from Uttar Pradesh in connection with the death of a painting contractor in September last year.  After the deceased Amit Singh died late on September 29, the five accused – Ravindra Singh alias Bunty Rajput, Prem Singh Rajavat, Dharmendra Singh alias Rinku Rajput, Jaiveer Singh alias Chachu Bhadoriya and Raju Singh Parihar – told the police that Singh died after falling from terrace. The police had registered a case of accidental death then. However, post-mortem and forensic experts confirmed that Singh died of strangulation and the police registered a new FIR on Monday on the basis of complaint of given by Satishkumar Katheriya, a painter who worked under Singh. Katheriya told the police that on September 29, after finishing their work, he and two other painters, who worked under Singh, returned to their rented home at Nava Bazaar in Karjan town. Around 10.30 pm Singh reached home and was talking to somebody on phone. After about half an hour, the five accused came there and asked Singh to go with them as they wanted to talk with him. Singh told Katheriya and other two painters to go to sleep as he will return late. The complaint stated that Katheriya woke up at around 3.30 am when he heard commotion in the house. The five accused had brought Singh in unconscious state and told Katheriya that Singh has passed out as he had consumed lot of liquor. But when Katheriya checked, Singh was not breathing. He also noticed injury marks over his throat and when he asked about it, Bunty threatened him with life to not ask or tell anyone about the events of that night. Later, the accused called ambulance to take Singh’s body to hospital and even called police. When the doctor in the ambulance declared Singh dead, his body was taken for post-mortem. The accused then told the police that Singh fell from the terrace following which a case of accidental death was registered. After the incident, Katheriya returned to his village in Uttar Pradesh, but after the reports arrived cops called him to Karjan to record his statement. Police suspect that Singh was killed over business enmity between him and the five accused as they too were involved in similar work like him. No arrests have been made yet.