Class 6 student Adithya Arun Nair of Christ Nagar Higher Secondary School, Thiruvananthapuram has been bursting with energy since his exams concluded in mid March and the vacations began. For him, the two months ahead mean playing with his friends in his neighbourhood and also visiting his grandparents at Karunagapally where he gets pampered to no end.

 This used to be the norm in the past for all kids during their summer vacations. However, of late the months of April and May, apparently mean less play and more work for children with parents enrolling them in   to keep them ‘occupied’. With the school vacations kick-starting, we find out if children are indeed missing out on the fun:
 
 
 
 For Class 8 student Rini Mathew, from Thiruvananthapuram, the summer classes are an extra burden and eat into her time that she could spend with her cousins. “The vacations used to be fun when my younger brother and I used to go to our native place in Thripunithura when I was in Class 5. Now, I have Spoken English and Maths classes after Vishu. After two years, I will be in Class 10 and won’t have any free time. So, I’d rather ditch these vacation classes and have fun,” she says.
 
 There are also those like Adithya, who enjoys the classes only if his friends too are part of it. “I love going to summer classes that have sports activities, but only if my school friends too come. With them it is fun and I don’t feel like I am being coached,” says the 11-year-old, adding that last year he along with his buddies had gone for swimming classes.
 
 One reason cited by parents and teachers for the popularity of summer classes has been urbanisation that has left little space for playgrounds. Also, parents are keen these days on sending their kids to coaching for sports or arts as they believe children must be occupied with something or the other, says children’s writer and academician Khyrunnisa A.
 
 “Children now lose out on fun during their vacations. I think holidays are the time when they are free to do their own things and enjoy themselves, without sticking to any regimental schedules and timetables,” she says.
 
 Khyrunnisa highlights that there are also children who want to hone their skills in several activities and hence ask to be enrolled in summer classes. “But often we find competition among parents as they think their kids must be good in extracurricular activities too. This defeats the purpose of summer vacations especially after the pressure of the academic schedule,” she says.
 
 
 
 Vineetha V, mother of an eight-year-old, though has a practical reason for enrolling her daughter in a summer class. “As I am employed, I can’t be with my daughter all day,” she says. “An abacus or a talent-enriching class are a better way of using her free time as they sharpen her mental skills and will benefit her in the future.”
 
 Meanwhile, there are also parents who don’t enrol their children in summer classes. Sunitha Ashokan, a working mother of two high school boys, says, “The entire year, the boys are studying, doing assignments and preparing for exams. So, why put them through the grind during their vacations too? It is their childhood and we must allow them to enjoy its innocence and fun,” she says, adding that she finds vacation classes “an extension of academics even though they help mould the soft skills of a child”.
 
 Actress Swasika Vijay, anchor of popular kids television show Katturumbu, stresses why summer classes are vital to the current generation. “They live in the world of gadgets. Most of the families live in apartment complexes, so the children have few friends to play with and rely on video games or mobile phones. So the courses help them enhance their creative skills and thus benefit the children in a big way, especially those from Class 6 onwards,” she says.
 
 However, Swasika says she has reservations about admitting them to courses that are strictly academic in nature as they will make a child bored easily. As for the contestants in Katturumbu, she says, “When I asked them, they told me that all of them are either going for picnics with their families or meeting their relatives. This will help them bond with the families better as they grow up.”
 
 
 
 A slew of summer classes including those for painting, robotics, aeronautics, zumba, cooking and photography are on offer in cities in Kerala for the next two months.
 
 George K Thomas, trainer at a summer camp in Venpalavattom, says that the camps are designed for children to engage in activities that help them explore their strengths. “We can’t predict what jobs the current generation will be doing after two decades because technology is rapidly evolving. So, they must be exposed to new activities that inculcate new skills. My nephew who is only in Class 2 was asked to talk about his robotics projects at CUSAT. So, the children are learning fast now and are aware of technologies such as artificial intelligence. So, we should mould them right to help them use it productively,” he says.
  George also says that these classes offer students opportunities to develop life skills such as making friends and also facing failures. “Most students now still find it hard to tackle failures and are extremely sensitive. Through games and contests, they are exposed to these aspects and that help them learn life skills,” he says.
 
 
