NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the Centre-appointed special task force (STF) to seal   in the upscale   in   and remove encroachments in front of shops for unobstructed passage for the people. 

 A bench of Justices Madan B Lokur and Deeapk Gupta asked the 13-member STF to identify illegal constructions and encroachment in Khan Market and take immediate action against shop-owners. The court passed the order after the court-appointed monitoring committee told the bench that various shops in Khan Market have encroached upon the verandah, causing hardship to visitors. 
 
 The committee accused NDMC of protecting shop-owners by refusing to remove the encroachments. It said there are also many premises in the market which have unauthorised constructions on ‘barsati’ floor (rooftop room) and even a floor above ‘barsati’ in violation of lease conditions and these illegal structures should be sealed.
 
 “The stand taken by the NDMC that it took charge of the market only in 2008 by which time verandahs had become a part of the shop is untenable as NDMC itself was responsible for unauthorised construction that took place in the market. In fact the lease and conveyance deeds clearly provide the FAR in respect of each shop and the built-up flat over shop and shop area do not include the verandah space. The NDMC cannot escape and put the blame on Land and Development Office,” the committee said in its report.
 
 The Committee said it visited the shops and noticed that verandah and shops were clearly demarcated and verandah had been encroached by the shop-owners.”The committee could lay hands on one of the plans showing construction which clearly shows the area of the shop and verandah separately and the width of verandah is shown as eight feet and this plan had been duly certified by the registered architect of MCD,” it said.
 
 The report also alleged that owners of 145 premises in Sanjay Market in Rohini in West Delhi, which were sealed in 2007 on the apex court’s order, had constructed multi-storied buildings after breaking the seal and sought direction against them.
 
 “It has now been brought to the notice of monitoring committee that seals of the properties have been tampered with and huge multi-storied buildings have come up on all the sealed premises. Further, the occupants of some of the premises have converted the same as residential premises. This amount to perjury and contempt of court,” the report said.
 
 Taking cognisance of the report, the bench directed STF to take action against all shop-owners for violating its order.
 
 “We also make it clear that if there are any other areas where there are violations which have come to the notice of the Committee, they may be sent directly to STF and Additional Solicitor General assures that STF will act on all these suggestions and complaints. For the purpose of the accountability, we expect STF to meet once in a fortnight along with officials concerned of the various corporations and the zonal authorities to ensure that the orders of this court are implemented in letter and spirit,” the bench said.
 
 
