PANAJI: At a time when Goa   officials were making the rounds of the state finance department seeking more funds, a section of officials were deliberating on ways to find a rented accommodation for their vice-chancellor (VC)  . 

 Having carried out various renovations to the VC’s bungalow and spending Rs 22 lakh to spruce it up, Goa University decided to rent a fully-furnished, four-bedroom apartment at   overlooking the sea for Rs 9 lakh per annum for Sahni, documents provided by the university in response to RTI queries by STOI showed.
 
  
  
 
 Goa University also engaged a broker for finding a rented accommodation for Sahni and paid her Rs 75,000 as brokerage fees. 
 
 All this happened at a time when the state government’s allocation to Goa University for financial year 2017-18 was Rs 50 lakh less than the previous fiscal and the university officials were pleading with the state for additional funds. 
 
 Despite repeated emails, Sahni refused to answer questions that STOI put to him. 
 
 When Sahni moved into his sea-facing rented apartment paid for by Goa University, he became the first VC in the university’s history—since early nineties when the university constructed a bungalow for its VC—to have taken a house on rent despite having an official residence at his disposal. 
 
 All former VCs have stayed at the fully-furnished official residence, barring Satish Shetye, who opted to stay in his own home that was near the university campus. 
 
 The Goa University’s reason for shifting Sahni to a rented flat was that the official residence needed major renovation. But from June 2013 to December 2017, renowned visitors to the Goa University, that included environmentalist Madhav Gadgil and musician Santiago Lusardi Girelli, were made to stay at the VC’s official residence.
 
 Despite hosting environmentalist Madhav Gadgil and musician Santiago Lusardi Girelli at the VC’s official residence on several occasions, a committee constituted by the university’s executive council and headed by K Dwarakanath Row proposed major renovation works in 2016. 
 
 The executive council constituted the Dwarakanath Row committee on October 31, 2016 and the panel immediately “suggested that renovation of vice-chancellor’s bungalow may be taken up on priority and further that a suitable residence shall be provided to the   until the completion of the renovation of bungalow”.
 
 “For necessary renovation and modification, the engineering and technical division of the university has now projected an estimate of Rs 58 lakh,” the committee told the council.
 
 Sahni and his family had moved into the official residence on August 19, 2016, and stayed till June 1, 2017, as per the RTI documents.
 
 But on March 15, 2017, the Dwarakanath Row committee recommended not only to construct a new bungalow for the vice-chancellor “at a convenient location” but also refurbish the existing bungalow for Rs 41 lakh that was accepted by the university’s executive council.
 
 It also decided to provide Sahni with a temporary accommodation at a 4 BHK furnished villa with a garden at Aldeia de Goa for Rs 80,000 per month. On April 13, 2017, the committee revised the rent to Rs 85,000 per month.
 
 But eventually, Sahni settled for the sea-facing furnished apartment at Nagalli Hill Colony in Dona Paula.
 
 In opting for the apartment, Goa University initially asked the owner to provide a rent reasonability report that certifies the rent of the apartment being justified. But when the owner declined to bear the cost, the university employed the services of its former staffer M S Chauhan, a project engineer, to provide them with the reasonability report. The fees for the reasonability report was also borne by the university.
 
 
