KOLKATA: A Salt-Lake based businessman, Madhusudan  , on Tuesday levelled charges of extortion and criminal intimidation against   Municipal Corporation mayor Sabyasachi  , who rubbished the allegations and threatened to take legal action against the complainant.

 Chakraborty, who held a press conference in Kolkata, alleged that Dutta had demanded Rs 1crore from him and allegedly threatened him with dire consequences if he failed to pay the amount by 4pm on February 12, Monday. He also sent his complaint to the Bidhannagar north police station by post and forwarded the complaint to the chief minister’s office ( ).
 
 
 In his complaint, Chakaborty alleged that Dutta had called him on February 2 around 10:30am, saying that he needed huge quantities of flags and festoons valued at Rs 2.3 lakh for the purpose of Tripura assembly elections. “I paid the said amount to one of his representatives named   at my office in CF-109,” Chakraborty said.
 
 Chakraborty alleged after that Dutta called him and demanded Rs 1crore for the Tripura election. “He threatened me with dire consequences. This morning too, he called me and I said I was at a doctor’s chamber,” Chakraborty alleged.
 
 Dutta rubbished all allegations claiming he did not know who Chakraborty was. “I do not know anything about this person and have never met him. I have heard from different media that he along with a local   leader was arrested some time back and was in jail for six months for their involvement in a cheating case. It seems to be nothing but a malicious attempt by the BJP to malign the Trinamool Congress,” the mayor said. He later indicated he might take legal action against Chakraborty.
 
 On the context of whether he had any telephonic conversation with Chakraborty, Dutta said that he daily receives hundreds of phone calls from various persons and that it’s not possible for him to know or remember any specific person by name.
 
 Minister Firhad Hakim said the person who was making the allegation was a cheat and was trying to malign Trinamool.
 
