AHMEDABAD: Unrest prevailed in the state following the death of   Bhanubhai Vankar who immolated self alleging apathy on the part of Patan collector’s office towards his persistent demand to regularize 18 acre land and give possession of the same to Dalit families. Even as angry Dalit community members blocked roads in Mehsana, Patan and Gandhinagar leading to suspension of bus services between Mehsana and Palanpur, Vankar's family, including his wife and two sons, refused to claim the body.

  and Vankar's family have given a call for Ahmedabad bandh on Sunday. “What government has accepted is their constitutional compulsion. Key demands like giving possession of land within 24 hours and action against errant revenue officials have not been met. We urge all Dalits to congregate at Babasaheb’s statue in Sarangpur as part of Ahmedabad bandh call on Sunday,” said Mevani.
 
 “We will not take the mortal remains of our father home and perform the final rites till the government fulfils my father's mission to grant land rights to fellow Dalits and takes action against errant revenue officials responsible for the apathy leading to his death,” said Bhargav Vankar, elder son of the deceased activist.
 
 Sensing emotions turning volatile, state government swung into action and accepted the demand to give possession of land to landless Dalits.
 
 Deputy CM Nitin Patel announced that the government would concede the family’s wish to form a probe panel in the chairmanship of a retired high court judge or by a SIT.
 
 
 
 
 "Government has sympathy for the victim's family. We have accepted all their demands. The said land will be granted to the victim's family shortly. If the victim’s family wants inquiry by retired HC judge or thorough senior IPS officer-led SIT, we will order that. As per the Atrocity Act, Rs 4 lakh compensation amount will be released immediately to the bereaved family and another Rs 4 lakh afterwards. Government has ordered a drive to immediately clear all the applications for land by the scheduled caste community as well as by farmers,” Deputy chief minister Nitin Patel said.
 
 The DyCM also claimed that their government has already allocated land possession in 93% cases.
 
 Caste leaders   Patel and Jignesh Mevani extended their support to take Vankar's cause forward as they visited the deceased’s families.   MLAs Shailesh Parmar and Alpesh Thakor also paid visit to the bereaved family. Karsan Solanki, BJP MLA from Kadi, was reportedly heckled by the crowd when he tried to meet the family of the victim.
 
 The three community leaders- Hardik, Mevani and Thakor demanded a fair probe into the case by an independent team. “Not a single leader or person who bragged about the   model is speaking on this issue. Till when this sequence of killings of Dalits,   and Patels would continue. We will fight for Vankar’s cause together irrespective of our different political leanings,” Hardik said.
 
 Independent MLA Mevani alleged government’s inaction to grant land to landless Dalits. “I exhort all Dalits to come out on the roads across the state in support of Vankar's mission,” Mevani said. He also called for Ahmedabad bandh on Sunday.
 
 Small incidents of unrest kept trickling till late evening. Stone pelting on state transport buses was reported from Unjha where a large group of Dalit community had blocked road since morning on Saturday. Tyres were also burnt by the Dalit groups to protest the death of Vankar, who was protesting the delay in land allotment to Dalit families by the Patan district authorities. Dalit groups also blocked Dhrangadhra-Ahmedabad highway on Saturday.
 
