Bhopal: Vandana Raghuvanshi, a girl in her teens from Dev Khajuri village in Vidisha district has a dream for as long she can remember— to become a cop . But she does not have a clue how to crack the exam. Hers is not the only case. 

 There are hundreds of girls like her from humble background, who yearn for the khahi uniform, but lack awareness about the exam, including the sine qua non — tough physical fitness and parameters to become a cop.
 
 This has led to poor representation of girls in police force and other uniform services, despite the state government reserving 33% jobs for women. In a bid to overcome it, the women and child development department has made arrangements in all 51 districts of the state to teach and train girls how to crackthe exam. More importantly to qualify physical test. Around 4,600 girls were imparted physical training and lectures in past three months. These lecture sessions are free of cost. The girl are also prepared for the physicals. Fresh recruits, including officers give the girls some tips, and provide them the technical know-how to appear for the exam conducted online. 
 
 Police personnel and sports teachers train them in physical aspects, including running, short put and other obstacles. Launched three months back, the girls preparing for police constables, are being trained under the Shashakt Vahini Abhiyan. Huge turnout of girls in many districts has led the government to start training them for forest guards and transport constables as well from this year. It will now be called as Samarth Sangini.
 
 Archana Chitnis, women and child development minister, said the idea is to ensure girls get benefit of reservation and have sufficient representation in police and other forces. Some 4,689 girls were imparted physical training and lectures in past few months.
 
 District level committees were constituted under the collectors, WCD and police departments also have representatives on the committee. The girls will also be trained for constable-level jobs in other departments like transport, forest and not only for police, she said.Vandana, 18, is the daughter of a farmer Bhaiya Lal, who has five daughters. Her village is 25 km from the district headquarters. She commuted daily to attend lectures at Vidisha Girls College in Vidisha under the scheme. “I have attended classes and now I am appearing for the exam. Hope I get successful,” she said. Roshni Ahirwar, a BSc student, who attended lectures and training session this month, said it was her dream to become police constable. “In lectures, we were trained how to appear for online exam. The physical training — running and long jump, also improved my health. I want to crack the exam and don khakhi soon.”
 
 Rajni Tiwari, a police inspector with crime against women cell in Vidisha, said girls are trained in a group for physical test and taken to grounds where recruitment takes place. They do running and made to compete to give them a first-hand experience on how to face test and clear it. The next batch will also start soon,” she said.
 
 
