MUMBAI: After waiting five months for their results, final year   (Accounting and Finance) students of   seemed unhappy when their results were finally declared on Sunday. Students found that their scores in Direct Taxes were not as expected. Upon seeing students’ poor performance in one subject, some teachers alleged that the subject’s answer key issued by the university was error-ridden.

 A teacher said questions containing more than 40 marks in the 75-mark paper had errors. “Some of the errors are apparent, while some can pass off as ‘subject to interpretation’ questions. A proper study must be done into it. While nothing much can be done at this stage, the teachers should have ideally brought this to the university’s attention when the assessment was on or when it started,” said a principal.
 
 Some teachers plan to write to the university and the board of studies for the subject, informing them in detail about the errors. “Some errors are glaring. There is a difference of amount in most of the calculations done by the paper setter,” alleged a teacher. “There is a possibility that because the paper assessment was done in a hurry to declare results soon, teachers would have overlooked some of the errors,” said a principal.
 
 Taxation was one of the papers that was pending assessment till late. However, most of the papers that were pending in April were from Cost Accounting. “Though students have not failed, their performance is not on expected lines,” said another teacher. Along with law,   students too had to wait for the results of the exams conducted in November. “Many BAF students who are keen on pursuing higher studies in India and abroad are affected with the delayed results,” said a teacher.
 
 Arjun Ghatule, in-charge director (examinations), said the university is processing the marks given by the teachers. “The teachers set the paper and the answer key. Such kind of problems should not arise. It is not possible,” he said. Another official said the only way out for students is to seek revaluation.
 
