CHENNAI: Protests over a yatra taken out by a Hindu outfit echoed in the Tamil Nadu assembly on Tuesday, culminating in the eviction of all DMK members. The protests were regarding Vishwa Hindu Parishad's ' ', aimed at mobilising support for building a Ram temple in Ayodha, enetering Tamil Nadu on Tuesday. It began when the issue was raised during zero hour by leader of opposition M K   who said it was "dangerous to allow the procession enter Tamil Nadu". 

 P Dhanapal expunged most of Stalin's speech but the opposition leader reiterated his statement outside the House to reporters. 
 
 Chief minister Edappadi K   assured the House that there will not be any law and order problem as the procession had passed through four states without any problem before entering Tamil Nadu. "The yatra started at Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh on February 13. After crossing Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Kerala it has entered Tamil Nadu. There were no problem in any of these states," said Palaniswami. 
 
 The yatra entered Tamil Nadu through Sengottai and will pass through Madurai and Rameswaram on March 21. From Rameswaram the yatra will move on to Tuticorin and Tirunelveli districts, before entering Kanyakumari on March 22. From Kanyakumari, the yatra would once again enter Kerala on March 23, said the chief minister. "Due to the yatra there has been no problem in any of the states though some political parties and Muslim associations in Tamil Nadu have petitioned against the yatra. There is no need to make this yatra a political issue," Palaniswami said. 
 
 Even as DMK MLAs were raising slogans, Nagapattinam MLA   ran into the well of the House and sat down in front of the speaker's podium. Dhanapal kept warning the DMK MLAs and finally called in marshals to evict them. Congress MLAs followed their DMK counterparts. The evicted MLAs sat on Rajaji Salai in protest, bringing traffic to a standstill for nearly 15 minutes on the busy stretch. 
 
 Deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam accused the DMK of politicising the yatra and said Stalin was searching for some issue or the other to be in the limelight. "The yatra has crossed states ruled by a CPM and Congress, and there was no problems there. The governments in those states allowed the yatra to go progress. Stalin's speech was intended to create a problem in Tamil Nadu. Congress is also ready to join DMK as usual," said Panneerselvam. He asked the Speaker to have a chat with all the evicted MLAs.
 
 Meanwhile, Stalin told reporters outside the assembly, "The chief minister did not give a proper reply to the issue and that is why we wanted a chance to speak. But the Speaker refused to give me a chance. I wanted action against Tirunelveli collector for promulgating Section 144 in the district to allow the yatra into the state," said Stalin.
 
 CPM and CPI also condemned the government for allowing the yatra into Tamil Nadu.
 
 
