NAGPUR: Though   cases have dropped by over 27,000 in   in the last three years, the district continues to have the highest incidence of the disease in not only Nagpur division but also entire Maharashtra. 

 The state public health department has a budget of almost Rs9 crore for malaria control in the district and has succeeded in reducing the number of cases over the years, yet the disease remains endemic and the situation is far from satisfactory. Gadchiroli, Gondia, Chandrapur and Thane contribute about 50% of total malaria cases in the state. 
 
 According to Dr Milind Ganvir, additional director health services of Nagpur division, the detection rate has increased gradually (70% now) over the last decade due to strategic planning. “The total number of malaria cases has decreased from 35,000 to 5,000 in last three years. This is a big achievement. Yes, it’s true that combating the disease in the difficult terrain full of forests is a challenge. It’s tough to reach all citizens in remote places while citizens too can’t reach the health services due to non-availability of transport,” he said.
 
 Dr Ganvir said that a special stratification has been created for the villages in the district. Villages with 50 and above annual parasite index (API) are visited by the health workers at least twice a week for both detection and treatment. Those with API between 5 and 50 are visited weekly and those with less than 5 API are covered only once a fortnight.
 
 “Laboratory services have also been provided in sub-centre level hospitals to minimize the time lag between blood collection and testing and subsequent treatment of the patient. Department is using rapid diagnostic kits which can detect the disease in just 10 minutes. Adult mosquito nets too are being distributed. The disease is difficult to handle as much as 5-8% of cases are asymptomatic (no signs of disease) and remain undetected,” said Dr Ganvir.
 
 Dr Mukund Diggikar, the joint director malaria control programme, Maharashtra, told TOI that the Central government has been providing ‘long lasting insecticide nets’ or LLINs which are impregnated with mosquito resistant medicine for since last few years. “Government has distributed about 3.5 lakh nets,” he said and added that the department is coming up with a special action plan (SAP) soon.
 
 Dr Abhay Bang is the chairman of the task force to implement the SAP. It is learnt, the task force has not been able to meet even once as its role has not been defined properly so far. Its constitution too is unclear. The plan includes increasing manpower, availability of diagnostic kits, treatment modalities and reaching the households in remote area.
 
 
 
