MADURAI: Students in Madurai showed better language skills as they progressed to higher classes but failed to maintain the same level of performance in other subjects, according to a study carried out by  .

 Conducted on standard III, V and   students at the government and aided schools in Madurai, the national achievement survey has found that students from all classes showed 50 per cent improvement in language learning.
 
 Class three students exhibited an average of 54.22 per cent performance level in language study. They produced the lowest learning outcome in reading printed scripts on classroom walls, poems, posters and charts, followed by small texts with comprehension such as identifying main ideas, sequence and drawing conclusions.
 
 The improvement is 51.43 per cent for class V students, with both male and female students showing almost the same level with 51 per cent. The lowest performance outcome was seen in reading and comprehending storybooks, news items and advertisements, independently. They have also fared poorly in reading text with comprehension.
 
 The languages skills have improved considerably for standard VIII students, as they showed a learning outcome level of 56.05 per cent. Students in urban schools have a higher language learning average with 57.81 per cent as against 54.04 per cent in the rural areas.
 
 For the students, the other subject knowledge, especially environmental sciences (EVS), has decreased even as their age increased. The overall performance in class three in   stood at 61.53 %, but it went down to 46.47 % in class five.
 
 Showing an identical trend is mathematics in which students have decreasing performance level as they move to higher classes.. While the overall performance average in mathematics in class three in Madurai is 55.81 per cent, it dipped to 43.07 per cent in class five and went further down to 32.53 per cent in class eight.
 
 However, a correspondent of an aided school in the city said that the questions could have been easily answered if the teachers were updated.
 
 “Both the Central and state governments conduct regular training classes, but the teachers do not attend them with enough care. They generally do not use the opportunity to register their attendance and carry out personal work,’’ he said.
 
 
