LUDHIANA: In order to cover the remaining children for measles-rubella (MR) vaccination, the district health department is going to start organising special camps through outreach centres. Keeping in view the ongoing summer vacations in schools, the district health department will start organising vaccination camps in dispensaries, community centres and so on. Moreover the number of children to be covered under the campaign has also reduced to 9 lakh from 12.5 lakh— the earlier estimation at the beginning of the  . As of now the department has covered over 5 lakh children. 

 The   campaign started on May 1 with an aim to eradicate measles-rubella. But, certain videos and messages started doing the rounds on social media platforms, regarding measles and rubella vaccination, which in turn made parents and school authorities sceptical about going ahead with the idea of getting their wards vaccinated.
 
 Some of the schools refused for the vaccination campaign since many parents refused for the same. The health officials conducted meetings with the school authorities to make them understand the concept of this campaign and make it clear that the vaccination has no side effect on any children. In some of the schools the officials are conducting revisit for covering the left out children.
 
 The district immunization officer Dr   said since most of the schools are about to close down for summer vacations now, therefore they will have to organise the camps outside schools. He said they have option of dispensaries and community centers and along with this. “Some of the health teams have also started vaccination on Sunday for people who do not get time during weekdays,” he added. 
 
 Meanwhile, the   health department has covered around 9,000 children for vaccination drive out of total 15,790. The senior medical officer at Jagraon civil hospital Dr   said they are working on achieving their target and cover the remaining children soon. 
 
 Apart from this, one immunization van has been flagged off by the health officials to cover the outskirts and outer areas of the district. After covering rural areas it will come in the urban areas. 
 
 Notably, the aim of MR campaign is to accelerate population immunity by reaching 100% target to reduce incidents of deaths from measles and disabilities from Congenital Rubella Syndrome. The target is to make state as well as country measles and rubella free by 2020.
 
 
