NAGPUR: Islamic scholars said the   emperors were flag-bearers of peace, brotherhood and  . “Today Islam is being perceived as propagating extremism but history reveals that Muslim rulers rooted for cultural unity and religious toleration,” they said.

 The scholars were speaking at an all-India seminar on ‘Mughal Emperors’ Administration and Secularism’ organized by Qidwai High School & Junior College of Arts, Commerce & Science, at Shikshak Sahakari Bank auditorium, on Monday.
 
 “Their (Mughal emperors) rule was just, not tyrannical,” said globally acclaimed Islamic scholar Akhtarul Wasey, vice-chancellor of  , Jodhpur.
 
 The speakers gave fine examples of the leniency (rawadari) practised by Mughal rulers “which made India a magnificent nation in all aspects”. 
 
 “A large number of temples, including the ones in Kashi, Patna, Mathura, were built with the support of Akbar. Even Aurangzeb offered huge grants and land for construction and maintenance of temples. They never interfered with the faith of their people which helped them win hearts,” said Mohammed Azhar, littérateur from Delhi.
 
 Educationist Sameer Siddique agreed and described how inter-religious harmony was at its peak during the Mughal era and said, “Maratha emperor Shivaji never invaded the mosques. If he ever found a copy of the holy Quran after a conquest, he would respectfully hand it over to some of his Muslim soldiers.”
 
 According to Siddique, the wise Mughal rulers identified the talent of craftsmen and architects and utilized it to the best of their ability. “They allowed them to nurture their skills which paved India’s way to prosperity,” he said.
 
 “No nation in the world could compete with Indian quality and standards when it came to shipbuilding, textiles and steel making business during the Sultanate period. We also nailed the art of diamond cutting,” said Siddique.
 
 Pointing out a significant difference between British and Mughal rule, Siddique quoted   and said, “The Mughal India was the richest economy in during the 17th century and it contributed an impressive 27% to the world GDP. On the other hand, the exploitation, destruction and loot during the 200 years of British rule brought 90% of the population below poverty line.”
 
 Speaking on the issue of modernization of Madrasa’s, Wasey said, “The ideologies which form the foundation of Madrasas don’t require any changes whereas the skills can be upgraded. Talented people during the Mughal reign who sought education from Madrasas have created architectural marvels like Taj Mahal, Qutub Minar and many more when great universities like Oxford, IIT, IIM didn’t even exist.” 
 
 
