PUNE:   could very well be the tennis version of  . At times his returns float harmlessly, and then there are times when they sting with venom. World No. 6   found this out, not for the first time in his career, the hard way when he went down to the 33-year-old Frenchman 6-1, 3-6, 2-6 in the semi-finals of the $560,000 Tata Open Maharashtra on Friday.

 "He is a great counter-puncher and puts a lot of balls back in play. When you play against him, you have to be aggressive from the back of your court and serve well," Cilic said after his loss in an hour and 52 minutes.
 
 The 29-year-old Croat knows Simon well, having lost to him five out of the six times they have played.
 
 Simon, currently ranked 89 but with a career-high No. 6, comes with reputation. In 2008, he beat   and   when they were No. 1s - in Toronto and Madrid respectively.
 
 In the other semifinal,  's explosive power got the better of Benoit Paire's artistry as the former won 6-7 (6), 7-6 (2), 6-1 in two hours and 19 minutes.
 
  
  
 Paire, who forgot to enter the tournament and received a wildcard, wowed the Centre court crowd at Mhalunge-Balewadi with his silken touch. But the South African World No. 14 began to gradually assert himself, beginning with the second set tie-break, and then ran away with the decider.
 
 In the first semifinal, Simon, rolled over in the opening set, began to draw Cilic with his lazy-looking backhands. In reply, the 2014 US Open champion kept unleashing his groundstrokes but without much pace on the ball, but his returns began to either find the net or sail long.
 
 Simon unleashed rasping returns from the forehand, one standing out. In the deciding set, Cilic, facing a triple breakpoint at 2-4, decided to come up to the net one more time when Simon produced a glorious forehand crosscourt on the run. The ball flashed past Cilic in a blink.
 
 Crucially, Cilic's first serve percentage dipped to 45 in the second, compared to 57 and 64 in the first and second sets. The second was also the most absorbing as Simon broke his rival back to back to go up 4-0.
 
 Cilic managed to earn a break in the fifth and had a one more opportunity in the ninth when Simon hit a backhand long. The Croat, having successfully reviewed a line call that went against him, then put his backhand into the net. Simon held after two more deuce points.
 
 Simon broke Cilic again for an early lead in the final set and sailed through. 
 
