Coimbatore: Driving on Rangai Gounder Street, one of the major commercial hubs in the city, is a nightmare for motorists. For the past two years, the stretch has been dug up by several government agencies at regular intervals without undoing the damage they had caused to the road. 

 The telecom companies were the first to dug up Rangai Gounder Street, also known as RG Street, two years ago. It was followed by the Tamil Nadu generation and distribution corporation. Lastly, the city corporation dug the road for laying water pipelines.
 
 Now, the road has been dug up for repairing the pipelines. “We are fed up with this. We can understand that water pipelines are important and civic work needs to be done. But when the road remains unmotorable for two years, it is frustrating,” said Kumar, a shopkeeper on the street.
 
 S Amanullah, who owns a courier company on the road, said his parcels were safe until they reach that road. “Every time I transport parcels through this road, I have to be careful. Many items got damaged after vehicles hit bumps or potholes,” he said. 
 
 Ashish Jain, a commuter, said it was disheartening to see that the authorities turned a blind eye to this. “We have petitioned many officials. We have sent the photographs of the damaged road to grievance redress cells and to newspapers too. But no action has been taken. They could at least patch the road up after the work,” he said.
 
 Rajesh, a resident in the area, said due to inconvenience, people themselves got together and filled some potholes with sand and construction debris. “But that has only made the situation worse. The sand and cement created dust storms. Debris made vehicles skid and many had been injured. We are so frustrated with the road. This is one of the most important roads in the city as it connects Town Hall to Thadagam Road,” he said.
 
 Karuppusamy, an assistant executive engineer who was in charge of the work on the road, said they had already called for tenders to lay the road and Rs 75 lakh had been sanctioned for the purpose. “We dug up the road to lay pipelines for Siruvani water. We have completed the work but for 15m. So we have dug it up now and the work would be completed in two days. After a week, the road would be re-laid,” he said. “In between, we would patch it with ready-mix concrete,” he added.
 
 
