NAGPUR: In perhaps the biggest blunder of the summer exams by Nagpur University (NU), Bachelor of Education (BEd) Sem-IV students were on Friday given a 100 marks question paper of three-hour duration, instead of 50 marks and 2-hour paper as per the syllabus.

 NU exam section said over 700 to 1,000 students from 57 affiliated colleges were appearing in the exam across several centres in the city, Wardha, Bhandara and Gondia. 
 
 This is the eighth goof-up related to question papers since March 20, when the first blunder about   final year paper was reported by TOI.
 
 Amid confusion, BEd students kept writing the ‘Gender, School and Society’ paper well beyond the prescribed time limit of 2 hours, citing the 3 hours printed on the question paper. Exam officials too did not stop them at most centres.
 
 The flawed paper had four long questions of 20 marks each, and four short ones of 5 mark each. Ideally, it should have been 10 marks each for four long questions, and two questions of 5 marks each. Students were worried whether to solve the questions as per 20 mark or 10 mark pattern. This is likely to pose problems during assessment of answerbooks, and may make it unfair for many students.
 
 The goofup has raised a serious question about paper setters and moderators, who are being appointed by special task committees having unqualified and retired members.
 
 On May 24, TOI had reported how NU is falling back on old panels for exam work. The functioning of special task committees has come under scanner for picking favoured members for crucial exam works in the past. 
 
 TOI spoke to officials at a couple of exam centres where the paper was scheduled in the 9.30am to 11.30pm shift. They said when students pointed out the mistake, they called up the exam section officials, who asked them to make manual corrections on the question paper.
 
 Director Board of Examinations and Evaluation   said though there was a problem in total marks and duration, the exam was smoothly conducted at all the centres. “Since there was nothing out of syllabus, I granted permission for holding the exam for three hours as it was printed rather than sticking to the rule,” he said.
 
 Khaty said an inquiry would be conducted and the exam section will have to work out special guidelines, like in the BCom final paper, for evaluation of answerbooks. “We will protect the academic interest of students,” he said.
 
 Asked about a re-exam, the director ruled out the possibility and said even students were not in favour of it, since most of them are employed and wouldn’t like to appear again.
 
 Some exam officials said though that NU must hold a re-exam as it would be unfair to students who restricted themselves to two hours paper.
 
 
 
