SURAT: Power loom weavers in the country’s largest man-made fabric (MMF) industry in the city are planning to file a complaint against yarn spinners before the standing committee on anti-profiteering and state-level screening committee under Anti-Profiteering Rules,  , of Goods and   (GST) Act for not passing on the benefits of tax rate reduction and increasing yarn prices by almost Rs 8 per kilogram in the last 10 days. 

 Power loom sector leaders said the front and second line spinners have gone on a spree to increase prices of yarn, which is the main raw material for power loom weavers. The price hike has come even as there is a subdued demand for polyester fabrics across the country and exports are dwindling. 
 
 In the last 10 days, the spinners have increased yarn prices by almost Rs 8 per kilogram in various qualities. The spinners said the reason for price hike was crude oil prices had gone up in the international market. 
 
 Last month, the spinners had increased yarn prices by almost Rs 50 per kilogram in nylon filament yarn and Rs 20 in other categories, giving a tough time to power loom weavers. 
 
 Pandesara Weavers Cooperative Society Limited president Ashish Gujarati told TOI, “GST on yarn has been reduced from 18 per cent to 12 per cent. Instead of passing on the benefit of rate reduction to weavers, the spinners have increased yarn prices in the last 10 days. The price hike phenomenon is going on since GST was implemented on July 1. We have decided to file a complaint against yarn spinners before the standing committee on anti-profiteering and state-level screening committee.”
 
 Member of Federation of   Weavers’ Association (FOGWA) Mayur Golwala said, “The government must come out with stringent rules against companies indulging in profit-making and not passing on benefit of rate reduction under GST. It is difficult for power loom weavers to operate in such an environment where they have to pay 5 per cent GST on fabric and purchase yarn on increased price.” 
 
 Processors hike job work charges
 
 Textile processors in south Gujarat, including Surat, have unanimously decided to increase job work charges between 10 and 15 per cent following increase in costs of chemicals, dyes, coal, fuel and labour. The decision to this effect was taken at a meeting convened by South Gujarat Textile Processors’ Association (SGTPA) on Friday, where around 100 members from different industrial areas participated. The hike in job charges will come into effect from February 2018.
 
 
