CHANDIGARH: After the two accused —Tirath Singh and   — in   moved the discharge application in the court two days ago, the police have produced the third accused,   alias  , in Chandigarh district court on Monday. He was sent to five days police remand.

 The UT police brought the third accused on production warrants from   jail and produced him in the court of civil judge   and asked for seven days police remand. Meanwhile, the police have sought time to file its reply against the discharge application moved by two accused   and Arshdeep Singh.
 
 Manjit Singh alias Bobby (24) is stated to be gangster. He was arrested by Hoshiarpur police and two FIRs were registered against him in August 2016. He was booked under Section 307 (Attempt to murder), 148 (Rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (Every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of the IPC and Section 25, 54, 59 of Arms Act.
 
 The UT police stated in the police remand that Manjit Singh is required for further investigation in the matter and hence he was brought from Hoshiarpur jail on production warrants and was sent to five-day police remand.
 
 Interestingly just two days ago, the Chandigarh district court had issued notice to the UT police on an application moved by two accused in   murder case seeking their discharge. Earlier, the UT police had stated in the court to discharge both the accused in the case. 
 
 However, it was dismissed by Chandigarh district court stating that it was not in the court territorial jurisdiction to deal with it.
 
 It was argued in the discharge application filed by both the accused that earlier the police had stated in the court that both arrested accuse should be discharged from the case as nothing was found against them in the investigation. 
 
 It was also argued both the accused were in   at the time of murder and had submitted evidence, which was also verified by the police. It was also mentioned that there was a video, which showed who shot at the sarpanch and both the accused are nowhere in the CCTV footage. 
 
 It was argued that the police had already investigated the matter and filed discharge application, saying both are innocent. The police sought time to file its reply in this application.
 
 What happened 
 
 Sarpanch Satnam Singh was murdered outside Sector 38 gurdwara in broad day light. He was shot dead on April 9, 2017. He was sarpanch of Khurd village in Hoshiarpur. 
 
 The victim, Satnam Singh alias Bittu, (40), was to appear as the witness in the Hoshiarpur court on April 30 in the case of the murder of his brother. 
 
 
