Mumbai: Israel Prime Minister   on Thursday encouraged more interaction between business communities in India and Israel, and said the partnership between the two countries was “made in heaven” that rested on shared values of “love for humanity, democracy and freedom”. He also said that   was reaching unprecedented heights although this was just the beginning of a wonderful friendship. 

 Netanyahu, on the last day of his four-day India visit, was addressing the India-Israel Business Summit in the city. 
 
 The Israeli PM said that among his countrymen, there was a “deep and abiding respect” for India, its people and culture. Touching upon the cultural roots of the two countries which go back centuries, he said that the two democracies share their love for freedom and love for humanity. “We are truly your partners. This is a partnership made in heaven,” Netanyahu said at the summit. He also said that curtailing excessive regulations that work as barriers to competition and empowering private enterprise were the keys to instant growth and he was working towards those. Netanyahu said that “lower, simple and easy taxes” was the only way to empower the private sector.
 
 Recently, Israel showed it had jumped 12 places to be placed at the 15th place in World Economic Forum’s competitive index ranking, which is topped by Switzerland followed by USA, Singapore, the Netherlands and Germany. He said that these are the countries that make him lose sleep and not the ones like Syria. Netanyahu said his aim was to put Israel within the top 10 countries globally in terms of competitiveness.
 
 The Israeli PM asked business leaders from India and Israel to collaborate to develop innovation hubs in these countries. Citing the example of   in the US as an example where Indians and Israelis freely collaborate, he said the two countries should work together to bring the talents from these countries together.
 
 In the same meeting, Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis said that the state was signing an MoU for establishing a water grid for the Marathwada region that will use Israeli technology. “I’m sure in time to come, we will see many Israeli businesses, mainly in technology and agriculture flourishing, collaborating and cooperating with Indian businesses, Fadnavis said.
 
 
