NEW DELHI: A few   made all the difference between life and death for 20-year-old Sonu Kumar: he was coming down the terrace of the factory building after relieving himself when he heard a loud explosion. It was followed by a huge ball of fire rushing up the stairwell as he ran back. 

 Kumar — along with his colleague, Roop Prasad, and two others — managed to save himself by jumping off the roof on to a tin shed. While Prasad suffered fractures in both legs, Kumar escaped with minor injuries as he landed on the former. 
 
 Prasad lost three of his cousins who worked in the same factory. Kumar said the workers, mostly women, were sitting in a room on the first floor when the fire broke out. “I think it started from a pack of crackers stored on the ground floor. I suspect a beedi may have started the blaze,” Kumar said.
 
 Recalling the horror, Prasad said the first blast was followed by several explosions as the fire spread. It took firemen almost half an hour to reach the spot, he claimed. “From where I lay, I saw the building being quickly enveloped by flames. I was sure that no one would survive. People didn’t get time to run as the fire spread rapidly,” he added. Family members said doctors had told them that they might have to amputate one of Prasad’s legs to stop infection from spreading.
 
 “As I jumped out of the window of a second floor, I saw two others fall on the tin shed. I tried to pull my friend, Rajjo, with me, but her grip loosened as we were running towards the stairs,” said Sunita, who suffered a hip fracture and needs a surgery.
 
 Some workers who rushed to the terrace were later rescued by firemen. They said there were at least 40 people in the building when the fire broke out. “The main gate was locked from inside by the supervisor. No one, including the supervisor himself, could find the small gate to escape as there was smoke all over. Some collapsed on the stairs due to the fumes,” Nikku, a survivor, said.
 
 Witnesses claimed to have seen “white flashes” after every blast, as containers with chemicals started exploding. Interestingly, three gas cylinders on the terrace remained untouched by the fire. 
 
 Rakesh Mehto, a tea seller outside the factory, said it was like Diwali had come early, what with   flying everywhere for more than 30 minutes. Sadly, this was no cause for celebration. 
 
 
