Ludhiana: A   against BJP was organized by the Communist Party of India (CPI) and allied organizations near Bharat Nagar Chowk on Wednesday. The rally-cum-protest was supported by All India Kisan Sabha, Punjab Kisan Sabha, All India Khet Mazdoor Sabha, Bharti Khet Mazdoor Union, All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Centre of Indian Trade Unions, All India Students Federation, All India Youth Federation, Democratic Youth Federation, Punjab Istri Sabha, and All India Democratic Women’s Association.

 Addressing the gathering, AITUC Punjab vice-president DP Maur, said: “The RSS-patronized BJP has been thoroughly exposed in the events in Karnataka. Their talk of high moral values has crumbled after audio tapes emerged on how — at the behest of Prime Minister Narendra Modi — a blatant attempt was made to purchase the MLAs. The way constitution was violated is an alarm bell for the future, as the Prime Minister has stooped at the lowest by telling blatant lies time and again on various issues.”
 
 According to CPI(M) district secretary Amarjeet Mattoo: “The rights of farmers are being hit hard through attempts of the land acquisition bill. Workers’ rights are being curtailed through the wage code bill, and budget on health and education is being cut. Besides, the Rs 15 lakh promised by BJP in 2014 has not reached anyone’s pocket. The promise of two crore jobs every year is nowhere to be seen. But the Prime Minister is shamelessly asking people to fry ‘pakoras’. Having realized their downfall, they are now out to split society on caste and communal lines by raising issues like ‘love jihad’ and cow protection.
 
 Speaking on the occasion, CPI district assistant secretary Dr Arun Mitra said: “During the past four years of the rule of this government, the country has gone back in all spheres. Petrol price has risen from Rs 64 per litre to Rs 83 per litre, and diesel too has shot up under this regime. On the other hand, subsidies for poor like LPG are being withdrawn, and corporates who have not returned their bank loans are being given waivers. To recover this loss, the Financial Resolution and Deposit Insurance Bill is being brought to control the money of depositors.”
 
 Other prominent leaders present on the occasion included Mukhtiar Singh, Bhajan Singh, Jatinder Pal, Surinder Jalaldiwal, Gurnam Sidhu, Gulzar Goria, Jagdish Chand, Ramesh Rattan, Chamkaur Singh, Dr Gurvinder Singh, Daljit Kumar Gora, Kewal Singh Banwait, Hanuman Prasad Dubey, Samar Bahadur, Balram Singh, Ram Lal, Balbir Singh, Satnam Waraich, Roop Basant, and Dr Baljit Shahi.
 
 
