CHENNAI: A day after two patients in a private hospital at   here tested positive for cholera, preliminary investigations by the state health department have shown that the source of the infection could be a patient from  , who was admitted a week ago. 

 On Wednesday, an eight-member team from the health department of   and the state food safety department visited Apollo Speciality Hospitals in Teynampet, where two patients had tested positive for cholera - the first case in   in the last two years. Three others showed symptoms of the infectious disease. 
 
 Food safety officials collected five food samples from the hospital's canteen - including raw chicken and lamb - and three water samples. "We took a list of food that the patients had in the last one week and took samples of what they had consumed in common," said designated food safety officer, Chennai, R  .
 
 The infected patients - two in the intensive care unit and three in the neurology ward - were admitted in rooms on different floors. One of them is from  , another from Oman, two from   and the fifth hails from a country in Africa. 
 
 Preliminary enquiries revealed that the patient from Uganda - which is in the grip of a cholera outbreak - had developed symptoms of the infection within 24 hours of admission for another ailment. Officials are now tracing what the man had eaten prior to being admitted.
 
 Cholera is an acute diarrhoeal infection caused by ingestion of food or water contaminated with the bacterium vibrio cholerae. Public health experts say it is an extremely virulent disease that can cause severe acute watery diarrhoea.
 
 Officials who conducted the investigation on Wednesday said it is unlikely the canteen food had caused the infection as only five patients were affected. There were others with even lower immunity levels, especially cancer patients on chemotherapy, who had consumed the same food. "But we can't rule out anything until the test results are out," said Kathiravan. On Tuesday doctors at the hospital had said these patients had eaten outside, which could have been the source of the bacteria. Kathiravan said this too seems unlikely as no other case of cholera has been reported in the city. Officials have now zeroed in on the first person who tested positive for the infection and how it spread to other patients. 
 
 In the meanwhile, the health department is taking steps to ensure the highly contagious disease doesn't spread outside the hospital. "As of now, the infection is contained within the hospital. We are doing an end to end search to ensure that there is no spread," said Chennai corporation deputy commissioner, health, P Madhusudhan. 
 
 
