NAGPUR: BJP MLA from   has said that Uddhav Thackeray’s opposition to holding monsoon session of the state legislature in Nagpur once again made it clear that Shiv Sena was totally against the interests of the people of  .

 A cabinet sub-committee headed by finance minister Sudhir Mungantiwar, earlier this week, had given its approval to convening at least a month-long monsoon session of the legislature in Nagpur from July 4. It had sent the matter to presiding officers of both the Houses for seal of approval and final announcement. Sena minister Subhash Desai was also a member of the sub-committee.
 
 However, on Thursday, while on Marathwada tour, Sena chief   said in Aurangabad that there was no need to hold an additional session in Nagpur and that issues related to Vidarbha could be amicably discussed in the monsoon session traditionally held in Mumbai. The BJP, however, is firm on holding the monsoon session in Nagpur and may have its way, but the Sena does not like the idea of two sessions — monsoon as well as winter— being hosted in Vidarbha, which is seen as BJP’s stronghold from where it won 44 seats in the last elections.
 
 Last week, Mungantiwar sought time from Thackeray for a one-on-one meeting to explain the matter. But the Sena chief declined it. This has put further strain on the already stretched relations between the BJP and the Sena.
 
 “Thackeray has shown how he is against Vidarbha and its interests. He is opposing the additional session in Nagpur as it would benefit the people of this region. If sessions in Mumbai could solve all problems of Vidarbha, then issues like farmers’ suicide, growing unemployment, backwardness of most districts like Gadchiroli, Washim, Gondia etc would have been resolved by now,” said Deshmukh in a statement released on Friday.
 
 The Katol MLA said the very idea of having session in Nagpur, enshrined in the Nagpur Pact, was to give justice to the people of this region by dedicating at least a six-week session here. But this has seldom happened as subsequent governments have always wound up annual winter session in two weeks or less. “As a result adequate time was never given to concentrate on problems peculiar to the region,” said Deshmukh. He has appealed to chief minister Devendra Fadnavis to stay firm on holding the additional session here.
 
 Slamming Thackeray, Deshmukh said if the Sena does not want Maharashtra legislature to meet in Nagpur, the only way is to grant statehood to Vidarbha so that all sessions of the state are held only in Mumbai, the Sena den.
 
 
