Memories of the days of  , through which the government in November 2016 declared Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes invalid, have not faded away. Though the situation has improved since then, empty automatic teller machines (ATMs) have returned to haunt the average Indian in several parts of the country.

 To add to the confusion, there is no consensus on the reasons for the problem. How long will it take to resolve the problem that has gripped Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, northern Bihar, parts of Uttar Pradesh, parts of Punjab, the border areas of Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh and some parts of interior Maharashtra? Chairman of State Bank of India Rajnish Kumar said normalcy would return in a week.
 
  Finance Minister   said the problem was temporary. How big is the problem? Educated guesses put it between Rs 70,000 crore and Rs 1,50,000 crore. What caused it? Answers are diverse — from hoarding to election-related demand to festival and agrarian expenses.
 
 Many claim they saw it coming. The head of a prominent cash management agency, who does not want to be named, says he has been raising the issue of shortage of cash since December 2017 with various authorities. But they chose not to address it.
 
 “They felt pushing more cash in the region will only lead to more cash being sucked out.” A more public signal was seen in mid-February, when the government of Andhra Pradesh wrote to the Reserve Bank of India ( ), seeking an infusion of Rs 5,000 crore into the region. Accord-ing to a government reply tabled in Parliament on March 16, the money was provided.
 
 It also noted that since demonetisation, the Hyderabad office of the RBI has been the highest recipient of currency notes — Rs 82,168 crore up to March 2017, and Rs 51,523 crore between April 2017 and February 2018.
 
 But the problem extends beyond Hyderabad. Though Andhra Pradesh and Telangana experienced the cash shortage first, fingers are being pointed at neighbouring Karnataka, where elections are due, for precipitating the crisis. The shortage had been apparent for more than a month in north Bihar, too.
 
  
  
 
 
 Sekhar K, 29, a content writer based in Hyderabad, recalls how he spent the whole of April 16 looking for an ATM with cash in Hyderabad’s Film Nagar and Jubilee Hills. He wanted money to pay his milk vendor. But he found most ATMs empty and several even without a security guard. Ravi Kumar T, an executive with a private enterprise, had to pay his landlord. It took him three days to find an ATM from where he could withdraw Rs 3,500 to pay rent. He also encountered ATMs that had an unusually low cap on withdrawal.
 
 Even in the middle of last week in Ballari City, 365 km from Hyderabad, many ATMs sported a no-cash sign. There were long queues outside those that had money. Rajesh Mudigal, who runs a grocery shop in the vicinity of an SBI ATM in Ballari’s Patel Nagar, says the cash crunch has been around for two-three months and the situation has only improved a little in the past month. “The SBI ATM usually gets emptied within two-three hours,” he adds.
 
 With Rs 2,000 notes running out in ATMs and smaller denominations not arriving quickly enough, people started demanding cash at bank counters. “The area was rife with rumours and panic about a run on banks,” says the owner-promoter of another cash management firm that operates in the area.
 
 Navroze Dastur, managing director of that has installed around 48% of India’s ATMs and also manages around 25,000, says there has been a steady increase in withdrawals. “It is not a sudden crisis. The average ticket size of ATM withdrawals has been growing over the past two and a half to three months.”
 
 Most people, be they cash managers or economists, were not willing to be quoted for the story.
 
 
 
 One way to explain how the problem started is to use the concept of speed or velocity of money. In layman’s terms, speed of money indicates how fast a currency note changes hands, or the average number of transactions a single currency note facilitates.
 
 If the velocity is low, more currency will be needed to sustain the economy. The Rs 2,000 note, for example, slows the velocity of money. Being a large denomination note, it cannot be used for all transactions often. Traders, especially small ones, prefer not to receive this denomination. The note also makes it easier for hoarders to store large sums, possibly helping the informal economy.
 
 But withdrawing the note quickly and without adequate replacement can also hurt. One Rs 2,000 note has to be replaced by 10 new Rs 200 notes or four Rs 500 notes — increasing the total number of currency notes, and, therefore, the need for an infrastructure upgrade.
 
 Unlike in digital transactions, however, there is no way of knowing the exact velocity of physical currency.
 
 Another sign of the impending problem was seen in the withdrawal numbers. ATM withdrawals are typically higher in the second half of a financial year.
 
 However, in 2017-18, the jump in withdrawals between the first and the second halves was way higher at 12.2%, against 7.3% in 2015-16 or 3.6% in 2014-15. Clearly, the economy was pulling in more cash into circulation. There was a hunger for cash. Cash in circulation in the economy was going up by leaps and bounds. In a report on the subject on April 19, chief economist at the State Bank of India (SBI) Soumya Kanti Ghosh said the growth of cash in circulation was “perplexing”. 
 
 He noted that cash in circulation has been growing in the range of Rs 40,000 crore month-on-month between January and April 2018. This was at least three times higher than the average growth recorded in the corresponding months of the five years preceding 2017.
 
 The growth in the economy has also been demanding more cash. A report by SBI on April 18, just a day before, had tried to guess what was driving this growth. The report said: “Heightened economic activity beginning Q4 of FY18 has meant that the demand for working capital cycle has changed for the better resulting in more usage of cash for transactional purposes. This may have also prompted more withdrawals at the ATM to support the same level of currency demand. This has amplified over time.”
 
 Cash in circulation, (around Rs 17.5 lakh crore as on March 31, 2018), is used to calculate the velocity of money — how fast a currency note is changing hands.
 
 Velocity of money is calculated by dividing the nominal gross domestic product (GDP) by total currency in circulation. A faster growth rate, therefore, shows the same currency note is going through more transactions in a day.
 
 In the report on the cash crunch, which SBI published on April 18, Ghosh explained the concept and noted how cash velocity has been on a declining trend in the second half of 2017-18. Ghosh also noted in a report that the total cash demand of the economy right now was Rs 19.4 lakh crore, going by the current nominal GDP numbers. There is a gap of Rs 1.9 lakh crore. He has estimated that Rs 1.2 lakh crore of this gap might be met by digital transactions, leaving a gap of Rs 70,000 crore.
  
  
 
 
 There is a clear indication that the Reserve Bank of India, too, was reading these signals. But it is not clear if tinkering by the central bank helped to ease the situation or aggravate it. In August, the RBI brought in the Rs 200 note and then tried to replace the Rs 2,000 note by slowly pushing smaller denominations. The move, instead of easing, complicated matters.
 
 So what went wrong? Two things. One, the size of the new Rs 200 notes was different from all other notes in circulation. Therefore, it required the installation of new cassettes in ATMs. Even now, only about 60% of India’s ATMs have been configured for the Rs 200 note. 
 
 Banks decided to pick and choose areas where they wanted to introduce this new note. The second issue was that as more and more Rs 2,000 notes were withdrawn from circulation, ATMs emptied faster. Replenishment, it seems, did not keep up with this pace. Empty ATMs led to rumours and greater demand for cash at branches.
 
 The central bank has not stated so far that it was withdrawing the Rs 2,000 notes from circulation. The big-denomination note had been introduced quickly to ease the situation in the wake of demonetisation in November 2016. While it served its purpose, it can be argued that the note has also added its own share of troubles to the currency system and a case for its withdrawal can be made.
 
 Right to Information queries filed by journalists on the subject of the Rs 2,000 note have not elicited answers either from the RBI or from the printing presses. While launching the Rs 200 note in August 2017, the RBI had said the production of the lower denomination note would be ramped up.
 
 ATM cash management agencies say they have seen very little Rs 2,000 notes being pushed out in the past six months. However, that reticence is gone now. The Rs 2,000 notes lying in treasuries across the country are now being pushed back into circulation, says a cash manager. For a second time, and as you read this piece, the pink Rs 2,000 note is being deployed to handle a crisis.
 
  
  
 
 
 Rituraj Sinha, managing director of Security and Intelligence Services, a company with a large cash logistics operation, says: “The localised cash crunch we are witnessing in select pockets is a supply issue principally driven by cash velocity-related challenges. A long-term solution would be to enhance the volume of 200 and 500 denominations in the economy and use ATMs to pump smaller denomination currency into all parts of the country.”
 
 However, ensuring all the 2.2 lakh ATMs across the country have the smaller denomination is a time-consuming and costly exercise. The process costs about Rs 2,000 per ATM. The government, the RBI or the banks have not borne this expense, and expected the cash logistics companies to do it as a service to the nation. Also, all ATMs are not configured the same way to dispense the same currency notes across the country. 
 
 Some ATMs are only configured to dispense low denominations. Sometimes, banks want ATMs to dispense multiple sets of currencies, depending on where these are located. All these come in the way of pushing out currency faster. The challenges are different from a country like the US, where most ATMs are configured to give out only $20 bills. Clearly, both the RBI and the government were caught on the wrong foot.
 
 The central bank has continued to push the government’s goal of developing a lesscash society. For example, as recently as February 7, the RBI withdrew certain incentives provided to banks for installing lowdenomination ATMs and cash recyclers, introduced in June 2016.
 
  
  
 The press release said one of the goals behind withdrawing the incentives was to promote a less-cash economy. Will that goal, especially in a year that will see election after election, be sacrificed at the altar of political pressures and compulsions? Another question that begs an answer now is not whether enough is being done to ensure the problem goes away, but will the problem arise in another part of the country?
 
