LUDHIANA: After facing outrage by teachers’ unions, the district education department has reinstated the head teacher and class teacher of Government Elementary School, Baba Sri Chand Colony, Mundiya Kalan. However, the teachers are in no mood to give up the issue.

 On Monday, several teachers under different teachers’ unions gathered outside the office of the deputy commissioner and staged a protest. The teacher demanded action against the local political leader for misbehaving with teachers and also for backing out than taking responsibility to clean the school campus. They also demanded   under MC to do the job.
 
 The teachers unions, following a protest, met deputy commissioner Pradeep Agarwal and submitted their memorandum to him. The teachers’ unions have demanded FIR to be lodged against local BJP leader Anil Arora who videographed the students and teachers and uploaded it on social media. The teachers have demanded action against him for barging into school, misbehaving with the teachers and defaming them.
 
 Besides this, the teachers have demanded funds to hire safai karamcharis or to ask safai karamcharis under MC to clean the school campus. Teacher   said, “The teachers have been reinstated. However, the issue is not over yet. The problem of cleaning schools will not be resolved until we get safai karamcharis. There is no post of sweepers in primary schools and therefore we have placed our demands for safai karamcharis under MC to clean school campus. We have submitted our demand to DC, who has assured us that he will pursue the matter.”
 
 Another teacher   said, “We have demanded action against the local leader who had misbehaved with our teachers, videographed them and uploaded the video on social medial to defame them. We want him to be booked under criminal charges.”
 
 He added, “If action is not taken against him in 15 days, the teachers will take to the roads and protest.”
 
 In the meantime, Agarwal said, “The demands of the teachers would be taken up with the concerned officials.”
 
 On Monday, the district education office has issued orders to all block primary education officers in the district to ensure that no student is sent outside campus during school hours. 
 
 Talking about the absence of safai karamcharis in schools, DEO   said, “The problem is there in the entire state. But the issue can be resolved if teachers make some efforts. In different areas, some schools have managed to get sweepers with the help of councillors, sarpanches and school management committee. The teachers should have pro-active approach to deal with the situation.”
 
