THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister   is learnt to have directed constituting an inquiry panel of IAS officers to frame charges against DGP  , suspended from service for remarks against the government, and decide on the nature of disciplinary action. 

 It is learnt that additional chief secretary (Home)   will chair the three-member panel. Thomas will be allowed to present his version.
 
 
  
  
 
 Chief secretary   had last month recommended disciplinary proceedings against Thomas for criticising the government for its handling of Cyclone Ockhi disaster. Thomas had claimed that his remarks were based on news reports. 
 
 Sources said CM Pinarayi Vijayan has issued a directive to send out an order constituting the panel.
 
 It is learnt that additional chief secretary (home) Subrata Biswas will chair the panel, which will also comprise two other officers.
 
 Thomas can either directly or through a representing officer, present his version or counter the charges against him. The directive of the CM is based on the report submitted by chief secretary Paul Antony, who recommended to go ahead with the disciplinary proceedings against Thomas for his criticism of the government in handling the Cyclone Ockhi disaster.
 
 The chief secretary filed the report last month, after perusing the explanation offered by the officer to the charges framed against him and finding them unsatisfactory.
 
 Thomas, in his explanation to the showcause notice, had maintained that he had no intention to criticize the government and his accusation that the government failed in giving adequate warning to fishermen was based on news reports.
 
 The showcause notice mentions charges against Thomas under Sections of All India Service (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1969, and IPC Section 153 A (bid to create enmity between communities). The newly-constituted panel will look into these charges and find out whether they would hold ground. If needed, the committee could add more charges.
 
 Thomas made the controversial speech while taking part in a seminar organized as part of Anti-Corruption Day observance in December, last year. He was suspended following the controversial speech. Thomas then decided to take on the government through social media and posted several messages highly critical of the government. He wrote to the Prime Minister seeking protection under whistle blower protection Act and also approached the high court with a petition seeking protection alleging that he was under threat for exposing corruption.
 
 With the constitution of the panel, the government can also extend his suspension beyond six months citing the pending proceedings.
 
 
