JAIPUR: In a retort to home minister Gulab Chand Kataria and parliamentary affairs minister  , senior   MLA   on Saturday said that the duo had a history of dishonouring parliamentary democracy by disrupting the leader of House’s speech in the assembly.

 A day earlier, Kataria and Rathore accused Tiwari of trying to set a wrong precedent in the House by intervening during chief minister Vasundhara Raje’s motion of thanks on the governor’s address. After heated arguments between the ruling party members and Tiwari, who was supported by the opposition members, speaker   had asked the BJP MLA to leave the House.
 
 In a statement released on Saturday, Tiwari said, both ministers would do well to remember how they disrupted the then chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s speech in House on March 20, 2010. “Kataria and Rathore repeatedly interrupted the leader of House and they were cautioned by the then Speaker. When they did not behave, the Speaker had to expel Rathore, who did not leave the House and ultimately the marshals had to be called. Rathore had fistfights with the marshals,” said Tiwari.
 
 He added, “The post of leader of opposition was vacant then and the present chief minister was vacationing abroad. As a deputy leader of opposition, I had then gone on hunger strike demanding revocation of expulsion of all 11 MLAs, including Rathore.” The next day, Gehlot had persuaded Tiwari to break his hunger strike and had moved the motion to recall the MLAs’ expulsion. “The assembly record is full of such deeds of Kataria and Rathore,” Tiwari said in the statement. The BJP MLA targeted Raje too, saying that the chief minister, after taking control of party and power in the state, was now trying to bring the state assembly under her influence. “The CM wants to turn democracy in Rajasthan into her personal fiefdom. Home minister and parliamentary affairs minister are her ‘sipah-salar’ (soldiers),” the rebel BJP MLA said. Tiwari emphasised that there have several occasions in the past when, considering the seriousness of an issue, members of house were allowed to 5-10 minutes to speak in the middle of an address by the leader of house. “I wanted to ask questions (on Friday) related Rajasthan’s public properties but the government did not want these issues to be raised in the assembly and reach people through the media,” the senior MLA said.
 
 
