NAGPUR: The decision by Pench and   tiger reserves not to conduct 24-hour waterhole   on April 30 (Buddha Pournima) has stirred up a debate among conservationists and wildlife lovers.

 While many still feel machan census is an unscientific and futile exercise, especially after spurt in tiger tourism, a section feels if the methodology is refined and confined to serious wildlife lovers, it can help the department to know about the prey-predator density.
 
 “Machan census was being done in a primitive way. It should be refined and kept open for select participants, who should be trained. There should be time slots for precise animal estimation. If officials feel that only 10% are serious goers, than scientific line transect method too has errors,” says  , honorary wildlife warden of Gadchiroli.
 
 “No data on herbivores in a park has been made public after line transect method was introduced. In waterhole one can say there are how many animals on a particular waterhole,” Patel adds.
 
 State wildlife board member Kishor Rithe says there is no relevance to machan census. “Earlier, the aim was to create serious nature lovers but over the years the exercise has turned out to be a source of enjoyment. Serious wildlife lovers can always be accommodated in Phase-I scientific exercise,” Rithe says.
 
 On the contrary, former RFO with TATR Umesh Dhotekar feels waterhole census is also not trustworthy. “But it is a significant way that keeps up the practice of observation of wildlife over a period,” he adds.
 
 Retired APCCF (wildlife) SS Mishra says machan census was held to know occupancies when technology was not available. “Waterhole census was not once in a year exercise. It was expected to be perfected all the year round, and then to culminate into the head count for 24 hours — on three and not one full moon days — May, the actual one. If these intentions are inbuilt in today’s system, I’m satisfied.”
 
 IFS officer Vinod Shivak feels waterhole monitoring is excellent for occupancy analysis and for ethological and animal health studies. “But I also don’t mean that line transect is a wrong method,” he adds.
 
 Conservationist Prafulla Bhamburkar says, “It is illogical. Waterhole estimation needs huge preparation. All manpower remains engaged for almost a month to repair machans. It is a peak fire season and tourism too. It also needs logistics to shift volunteers. Besides, berths are limited, people use political pressure to occupy berths.”
 
 Another key issue raised by him was that there is lot of tree felling to create machans. “One machan needs at least 20-25 wooden poles which are extracted from trees inside the forest. “For example, If 200 machans are to resurrected in Pench, at least 5,000 trees will be damaged,” he added.
 
 “The only value that I see from machan census is that it allows nature enthusiasts to experience nature in an immersive way rather than boring safari rides in gypsy vehicles. Otherwise the methodology is outdated and offers no value by way of scientific inputs on animal abundance and density to forest management. Persisting with machan census as an estimation methodology means going back to the stone age scientifically,” feels Milind Pariwakam, wildlife biologist who is trained in animal population estimation and working with WCT.
 
 Navegaon-Nagzira to conduct census
 
 On the lines of Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR), the Navegaon-Nagzira Tiger Reserve (NNTR) in Gondia and Bhandara districts will also conduct the exercise on April 30. There are five parks — Koka, New Nagzira, Nagziram Navegaon and New Navegaon under NNTR. “There are at least 100 waterholes where the estimation will be done on first-come-first-serve basis by inviting applications,” said divisional forest officer (DFO) Uttam Sawant. There will be no jungle safari in the evening on April 30. Last year, 134 participants took part in NNTR machan census. 
 
 
