Lashing out at the Maharashtra government for its failure to submit the report of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing 44 farmer deaths due to pesticide inhalation, the Nagpur bench of the   has orally asked the government “why it was suppressing the report”?

 Categorically refusing to grant extra time to the government pleader to take instructions on submitting the report, a division bench of Justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Swapna Joshi sternly directed him to file a reply by Friday. “When assurance was given in October to make   public within three weeks, why hasn’t it come till date? You should have pointed it out, whether it was ready or not. You should have called the authorities concerned today itself, taken details about the report, and made a statement today itself,” the judges said.
 
 The stern observations came while hearing a PIL by social worker Jammu Anand, through counsel Arvind Waghmare, citing several media reports, including that of TOI, contending that over 700 other farmers were admitted in hospitals across Vidarbha with respiratory problems and 25-30 lost their eyesight due to failure in implementing the Insecticides Act, 1968.
 
 Praying for directives to the government to compensate the family members of the deceased with Rs 20 lakh, and Rs10 lakh for those who lost their vision, the 55-year-old social worker sought reimbursement to those taking treatment in private hospitals as well. He also demanded that the SIT lodge FIRs under the Insecticides Act against the state and local authorities, along with the manufacturers, distributors and retailers of companies selling such deadly pesticides in Yavatmal. Anand also sought directives to seal all shops and godowns selling or stocking such deadly products.
 
 After exposing the deaths due to pesticide inhalation, TOI has been consistently following the issue in Vidarbha, particular in Yavatmal known for highest number of farmers’ suicides in India. 
 
 Quoting Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis, TOI had on December 24 reported that the SIT report was not ready. Earlier, agriculture minister Pandurang Phundkar had assured to table the SIT report in the winter assembly session last month. But the CM asserted that there was no need, since the report was inconclusive and yet to be ready. “We’ve sent viscera samples for further investigations. We have already spoken in both Houses about various contents of the report,” he had told TOI.
 
 
