HYDERABAD: V Jagannatha Rao, a retired employee of Karnataka state undertaking MSIL, is a very hot and bothered man these days. The reason: for the past few weeks he has been facing problems getting his hands on some of his own cash as the ATM he frequents close to his home has been sporting the ‘no cash’ sign.

 “For the past few weeks we have been facing a problem getting cash from the Neredmet branch ATM for least two to three days a week. The   officials express their inability to do anything about it as they are not receiving adequate cash,” said the Safilguda resident, who was spotted at the Bank of India’s Neredmet branch ATM on Monday.
 
 
  
  
 
 Getting an ATM machine to cough up some cash has proved to be an uphill task for Mehboob Basha, who resides at Vinayak Nagar in Neredmet. “Since morning I have visited seven to eight ATMs but could not find any cash. The fear of the Financial Resolution and Deposit Insurance Bill 2017 (FRDI Bill) bail-in clause has led to the public withdrawing their deposits from the bank,” said Basha.
 
 Downed shutters and ‘no cash’ and ‘out of service’ signs plastered across several ATMs in Hyderabad, Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada and rural AP and Telangana have thrown life out of gear for many in the two Telugu states.
 
 While the cash crunch is less acute in core Hyderabad, other parts of the city and its fringes as well as rural Telangana and AP have been reeling under a severe shortage of currency, with ATMs being filled with cash only once a month in some places.
 
 When this correspondent visited ATMs in places such as Tarnaka, Moula Ali, Kushaiguda, Sainikpuri, Neredmet, ECIL, AS Rao Nagar, Nagarjuna Nagar, Kamala Nagar, Dammaiguda, around 70% of the ATMs were running dry.
 
 In fact, even on   day many were forced to spend most of their time running from one ATM to the other in their quest for some cash to meet their festive requirements instead of spending some time in prayer and celebrating the festival.
 
 In fact, ATMs of Andhra Bank and   at Neredmet branches were found flashing the message that they were unable to process transactions. A Suresh, an administrative staff member of Slate School at Abids, told TOI, “I checked the two ATMs but found no cash in either of them. On a festival day like Rama Navami finding no cash in the ATM is a big pain.”
 
 On the other hand, while Syndicate Bank’s Moula Ali branch ATM said it had no cash, its deposit machine was accepting money.
 
 Y Ramesh, who runs a provision store in Kushaiguda, and was found outside the branch ATM, said, “I came here to deposit cash as I have to make payments to suppliers online. Only the deposit machine is working. The teller machine is not working. On most days only Rs 500 denomination notes are available.”
 
 Upset at his plans to go shopping being thwarted Y  , a resident of ECIL and aBTech student, said petulantly: “I planned to go shopping at a nearby mall, but could not get any money from the ATM.”
 
 In Vizag city, ATM machines at busy junctions like Dwaraka Nagar, MVP Colony, Maddilapalem, Akkayyapalem and NAD Junction have remained shut for days, hurting those queuing up to draw money for medical purposes and other emergencies the most. Balireddy Ramudu, a financier from Anakapalli in Visakhapatnam, said people in the rural areas are the worst affected as these areas have limited bank branches and ATMs. “More often than not, these ATMs display ‘out of cash’ boards,” Ramudu said.
 
 The situation is no better in the rural areas of Krishna and West Godavari of AP either, where aqua farmers of Kolleru region, who usually conduct big ticket bank transactions every month, are giving banks a miss due to reduced availability of cash in ATMs and bank branches and prefer to park their cash at home and deal only in cash.
 
 “None of the ATMs in our region have been restored post demonetisation and we have been forced to waiting in long queues outside banks branches to withdraw our own money. Cash officers in banks have been permitting withdrawal only of smaller amounts, below Rs 4,000 each, citing a cash crunch and have been asking us to opt for NEFT and RTGS transactions,” said Movva Srinivasa Naidu, an aqua farmer from Kalidhindi of Krishna district in AP.
 
 N Paideswara Rao, a farmer from Srungavruksham village, near Bhimavaram, is upset at the cash crunch in the harvest season. “We are to pay big sums in labour charges during the harvest season, but bank officials did not even permit us to withdraw the money we got through crop loans saying they have no cash. Bank officials say proposed FRDI Bill has affected cash reserves as everyone is preferring withdrawing cash,” he said.
 
 
 
 With the proposed Financial Resolution and Deposit Insurance (FRDI) Bill, 2017, sparking off a major scare, banks in Telangana and AP are witnessing long queues for the closure of fixed deposits as well as withdrawals from saving bank accounts.
 
 This has led to banks imposing unauthorised rationing on cash disbursals, ranging from Rs 20,000 to Rs 40,000 per day per person in their home branches. Many bank customers said they have lost faith in the banking system in the wake of the proposed FRDI Bill and frauds like the PNB scam.
 
 “When the government slaps a surcharge on more than four ATM withdrawals a month, people are forced to withdraw additional amounts to avoid paying surcharge on the fifth. Now, everybody keeps extra cash at home for emergencies,” said AM Dayal of Habiguda in Adilabad district.
 
 The situation in Vijayawada and Guntur is a bit different with people facing a cash crunch over weekends. “I checked 40 ATMs and each of them had a ‘No Cash’ board. Bank holidays have become a nightmare for the common man, who has to spend the day searching for the nearest cash recycler machine (depositwithdrawal machines),” said Metla Ajay Ram, a private sector employee from Vijayawada.
 
 Ganta Ramana Rao, a businessman from One Town of Vizag, said several bank branches are unable to disburse cash to those wanting to withdraw over Rs 1lakh from accounts.
 
 A senior public sector bank official in Vizag said cash availability in currency chests is not too good. “People seem to have developed some phobia about parking their cash in banks in light of proposed FRDI Bill and banking scams.”
 
 
