CHENNAI: Doctors at Government   Medical College were attempting the state’s first double   on a man as they wheeled him into the theatre at 7pm on Wednesday.

 The limbs came from M Venkatesan, declared brain dead after a severe brain injury. Doctors said the 37-year-old contract worker at the   tripped from the stairs at his house in Manali. He was admitted to the hospital on Monday with severe bleeding in the brain. Neurosurgeons did an emergency surgery but Venkatesan did not recover. On Wednesday, after he was declared brain dead, his family agreed to donate his organs and hands.
 
 The recipient – whose name and details are withheld – will receive both the hands in a transplant that is expected to go on for at least eight hours, said   dean Dr Ponnambala Namasivayam. “We can’t reveal more details about the surgery or the recipient as of now,” he said.
 
 Stanley Hospital had earlier been reattaching severed hands on several trauma victims, but this surgery is more challenging as they were using a pair of hands that belong to another person. The recipient’s body may reject the new body part and the immune-suppressing drug that reduce this risk involved carries a series of complications. “The patient will need long term physiotherapy to help him cope with his new hand,” said a senior surgeon from the transplant team.
 
 The surgery was being done under the state health insurance scheme, which offers a cover of up to Rs 2 lakh. Additional cost will be covered by the corpus fund the state has created.
 
 Doctors also harvested Venkatesan’s vital organs, eyes and skin. While the state transplant authority (TRANSTAN) allotted the liver to a patient in Vellore-based   and Hospital, one of the kidneys was retained for a patient in Stanley and the other was sent to a patient at the Kilpauk Medical College Hospital. The eyes were sent to the Government Eye Hospital in Egmore. The skin graft too was by Stanley.
 
 The state state has received organs from more than 1,000 people since 2008. Besides vital organs such as heart, lungs, liver and kidneys, the state harvests bowels, pancreas, eyes, bones, heart valves, skin, spine bone and tissues.
 
 
