Nationalism means loyalty and devotion to a nation. At the   2018, it seems the theme, a hot button issue that excites contrary passions, seems to be leading visitors to books focused on the country’s traditional ethos. That’s more than evident in hall 12, the vernacular section of the fair’s 26th edition.

 Families, college students and curious readers have been streaming into this section, which till now didn’t really make heads turn. The change, for many, has been the stall by several publishing affiliates of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. While Suruchi Publications, one of the affiliates, had a presence in the 2017 edition, this time it’s a blitzkrieg of ‘nationalistic’ literature by RSS affiliated publishing houses, which have come together under the umbrella organisation Rastriya Sahitya Sangam.
 
 Rajiv Tuli, spokesman for the Delhi RSS, said the purpose of setting up the stall was to “make Bharat a nation of disciplined and patriotic citizens endowed profusely with social and cultural values”. The stall has put up books on a gamut of subjects, from environment – the focus subject at this year’s fair – and economics to Hinduism, science and ‘Bharatiya’ culture. Giving the   stall company are old associates like   and  .
 
 However, what is striking in Hall 12 is not the presence of the Sangam stall. It is the steady stream of people buying books.
 
 “As a kid, I got to know about Indian literature from comics like  . But even that is not available now,” said Rituraj Chopra as he picked up a graphic book on Swami Vivekananda from the Prabhat Prakashan stall. The overarching concern seemed to be a need to reconnect with cultural roots, and give the next generation a glimpse of the past.
 
 Publications available at the RSS stall seemed to fill this need. Slim anthologies on Mahatma Gandhi, Lala Lajpat Rai to Bankim Chandra and Keladi Chennamma jostled for space with publications on the freedom struggle and titles like 
 , 
  and 
 . ‘Comics’ on   and Nanaji Deshmukh could be seen nestled with books on the Emergency and socio-cultural histories of north-east states.
 
 V Rajagopal, manager of one of the vernacular stalls in the RSS enclosure, said, “Many who have visited our stall here haven’t even heard the names of the people we have published books on.” He pointed to a book on Andal, the ‘Mirabai of the South’. Similarly, a book on Madam Cama, the first woman to unfurl the Indian flag on foreign land, elicited surprise from visitors, who have heard of the street named after her, Bhikaji Cama, but never knew who she was.
 
