Vijayawada: Jawaharlal Nehru   Industrial Estate (Jawahar Autonagar), Asia’s first and largest automobile service hub, is facing problems due to the neglect and apathy of the local Industrial Area Local Authority (IALA).

 Jawahar Autonagar, formed around 52 years ago, is gradually losing its shine due to the unhygienic atmosphere and rising pollution. The industrial estate — which is famous for truck body building, re-bottoming of tyres, engine repair and other electronic works connected to automobiles — consists of around 1,200 major and minor industries. 
 
 Around 1.5 lakh people are employed with various industries in the area. The annual business turnover is around Rs 600 crore from the industrial estate, but still, sanitation has for long been a big problem here.
 
 A majority of roads adjacent to 100-feet stretch are filled with garbage and industrial   which are causing severe inconvenience to motorists. “IALA, which is collecting taxes from industries, has been ignoring the sanitation problems here. Almost all roads in the estate are filled with tons of industrial waste. Garbage dumps are causing great inconvenience due to the heavy vehicular movement in the inside roads which is affecting our business,” complains Lavu Pandurangam, who runs a truck clutch gear workshop there.
 
 Lack of proper garbage collection and disposal system are also creating problems for the industries situated in the estate. “Huge quantity of industrial wastes are generated every day. There is no door to door garbage collection, nor are there any dumper bins in the industrial area. We are therefore forced to dump our garbage on the streets,” says M Narayana, who operates a truck body-making unit.
 
 The sanitation wing of IALA is simply burning stagnated garbage on the streets to reduce financial burden, he added. “Inhaling fumes and smoke emitted by burning toxic industrial waste along with hazardous chemicals are causing severe health problems to people working here. Respiratory problems like allergic bronchitis, asthma, lung diseases and cancer can be caused by this pollution,” says Dr Raghuram, a pulmonologist.
 
 The main inundation drain passing through the industrial estate has long since got blocked with plastics and toxic industrial waste which has been causing a big stink.
 
 
