AHMEDABAD: A day after shedding tears over alleged ‘attempts to muzzle his voice’, a visibly angry president of the   ( )   hurled allegations at the Ahmedabad crime branch calling it a ‘Conspiracy Branch’. 

 The VHP chief alleged that the police were acting against him as part of a larger ‘political conspiracy’ being hatched in Delhi. He also said that he would approach his lawyers to initiate legal action against the crime branch.
 
  
  Togadia, who was discharged from Chandramani Hospital on Wednesday, trained his guns on crime branch additional CP JK Bhatt. He said that Bhatt was allegedly acting on instructions of his “political bosses in Delhi.”
 
 “The Ahmedabad crime branch has become ‘conspiracy branch’,” Togadia said.
 
 “Crime branch officials had put pressure on VHP workers. One of the workers was picked up at 2 am and around 20 police officers quizzed him for around two hours in an effort to make him utter something against me,” he said.
 
 The VHP chief further said that he wanted Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani to explain why the crime branch was acting against him if the case was lodged by Rajasthan police.
 
 “At whose behest is the crime branch acting against me?” Togadia asked. “I demand incoming and outgoing mobile call details of J K Bhatt and the Prime Minister of the last fortnight to be made public.”
 
 Togadia went on to allege that the crime branch additional CP J K Bhatt was involved in the conspiracy along with his Delhi-based political bosses.
 
 “He has been harassing my patriotic workers at the behest of his political bosses in Delhi,” he said.
 
 Bhatt, however, rejected Togadia’s allegations and denied that he was in touch with politicians to hatch a conspiracy.
 
 “I appeal to Prime Minister Modi not to allow crime branch to become a conspiracy branch,” he said. “Crime branch is a credible agency and it should not be allowed to become part of political conspiracy to kill the democracy.”
 
 The VHP leader alleged that J K Bhatt was trying to malign him by making up a fake CD. He referred to a movie clip of VHP worker   being circulated on Tuesday night.
 
 Bhatt confronted Togadia on the fake CD allegations. “We were probing how Togadia had landed in Kotarpur when he has claimed he was going to the airport to fly to Jaipur. Kotarpur does not fall in the way,” Bhatt said.
 
 The police officer further said that the police had tracked Dhiru Kapuriya, the bearded man with whom Togadia had left the VHP’s Paldi office in an auto. “We have reports that Kapuriya had shaved off his beard to avoid detection,” Bhatt said.
 
 The VHP leader also attacked people who had criticised him for meeting former state Congress president Arjun Modhwadia and PAAS leader Hardik Patel at the hospital.
 
 Togadia also added that, “Earlier too in 2008 the same JK Bhatt had tried to frame VHP’s general secretary Ashwin Patel in a false case, a day before Diwali, as he had opposed the Gandhinagar temple demolitions. He was freed only after Mohan Bhagwatji , LK Advaniji and Ashok Singhalji had intervened.”
 
 Togadia alleged that more than the Rajasthan police, it was Ahmedabad’s crime branch that was interested in arresting him. 
 
 “I was told that the case against me in Ganganagar was withdrawn in 2015 and the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) had also signed as a competent authority. If the case against me was withdrawn, why did Ahmedabad police want to arrest me on Makar Sankraman day (January 14),” Togadia said.
 
 The VHP leader also attacked people who had criticised him for meeting former state Congress president Arjun Modhwadia and PAAS leader Hardik Patel at the hospital.
 
 
