JAIPUR: For the first time   will be conducted online by the directorate of animal husbandry in  . The census, which is held every five years, is delayed by a year. The last census was held in 2012 and the next one was scheduled for 2017, when the state government decided to have it digitalized and the animal husbandry department was to purchase tabs and develop a new software. While the software has been developed, not a single tab has been purchased against the need of 8000.

 According to Dr.  , joint director (animal statistics) of Rajasthan, “So far the census was done offline with the involvement of patwaris, school teachers and others. But this year central government have decided to make the census online, to make it more efficient. Hence, it was decided that tablets will be provided to the people doing the census but the department of animal husbandry still haven’t received any tablets.” 
 
 This will also be the first time that census will be done breed wise so that the data is more organised. Therefore, this time the census will be done by the department officers that includes livestock assistants and veterinary doctors, so that the breed can be identified. Though the intention of the government of India should be appreciated but the delay is causing a lot of problems for the livestock department.
 
 “We have to use previous census data for all the schemes that we made. There are lot of problems due to this, especially at the time of working in the rural areas and as the data is not updated, we have to estimate the presence or absence of the breeds in an area. Moreover, there is a need of more vaccination and medicines according to the growing population but have to follow the old data. If the new census is completed planning can be done better for the coming years. But the meetings are going on and within 6 months we are expecting that the census will start,” said Malik. 
 
 According to the number of the institution there is a need of 8,000 tablets by the animal husbandry department of   but so far only 2,400 tablets are yet been sanctioned, though the tablets will further be useful for the department for other schemes. The government has sanctioned about Rs 6,000 for one tablet and two times tenders have been passed by the department in 2017 but because of inferior quality they were cancelled. Also, because of the digitalization, the staff also has to be trained to get accustomed to the new software which is already been prepared by the National Information Centre. Both the issues have to be dealt with which the department is hopeful of solving very soon. 
 
 
