HYDERABAD : Legislative affairs minister   on Monday said Speaker   will take a decision on action to be taken against Congress members who flung a head phone and injured council chairman Swamy Goud on Monday.

 
 “The Speaker is examining the footage. We have asked that strict punishment be meted out to those who indulged in the attack. The government will back the speaker's decision. All parties condemned the action of Congress members during Business Advisory Meeting,” Harish Rao said. The minister said it was obvious the target of the attack was the Governor. "It was by chance that council chairman Swamy Goud was hit. The action of the Congress is an attack on democracy itself," Rao said.
  
 
 When Harish Rao was reminded by the media that he too had in the past engaged in a scuffle with marshals and threw papers towards the Governor before bifurcation, he said there was a difference. “There was no other way out for us as we were fighting for a separate Telangana state and we were not allowed to raise our voices and demand. What I did then was for the best interest of the state. Congressmen indulging in unruly behaviour today has no meaning. We have achieved Telangana and for the development of the state they can speak in the Assembly from tomorrow," he said.
 
 
 "What we did then was Bhagat Singh-like behaviour for the love of our people. What the Congress has done today is like terrorist activity. They are like terrorists who attacked the Parliament," Harish said. He described Congressmen who indulged in throwing head phones and papers as 'goondas' and 'street rowdies'.
 
 
 Government whip in the council   alleged that some Congressmen had come drunk and indulged in criminal activity. “Just because it happened in the Assembly, it doesn’t mean he enjoys immunity. He should be prosecuted,” he said.
 
 On Monday, Komatireddy   flung papers towards podium several times. To the end of governor's speech when he jumped to throw papers, he slipped and fell, but was aided by Congressmen. MLAs are provided with a headphone to listen to translation. Two headphones were reportedly flung, one of which hit the Council chairman. TRS MLC Karne Prabhakar and Mahbubnagar MLA Srinivas Goud condemned behaviour of Congress legislators.
 
 
 At Sarojini Naidu Eye hospital, Swamy Goud underwent a check-up and was given medication. He was admitted as an in-patient. Deputy chief minister   visited him.
 
 
 Venkat Reddy tried to garner sympathy and displayed an injured knee to the media. “Canards are being spread by TRS that some Congress MLAs came drunk. I challenge TRS MLAs, including the CM to agree to an alcohol test,” he said.
 
