NEW DELHI:   ( ) said on Thursday that it had a loan exposure of Rs 1,700 crore to companies related to   and  , in addition to liabilities of up to Rs 11,300 crore through letters of undertaking (LoUs), which were allegedly issued fraudulently.

 While promising to honour the bank’s commitment, PNB managing director and CEO Sunil Mehta told reporters that the “main accused” has promised to repay but said the plan was “vague”. Almost three weeks after the fraud was detected, he said PNB had received an offer for repayment of the liability over email, but it was not satisfied. “He (Nirav Modi) has not come out with any concrete plan to repay so far. But they are coming out with some vague offers, which are under examination,” said Mehta, who appeared nervous.
 
 Asked about the bank’s liability, Mehta said the lender was in discussion with all stakeholders and will “honour all bona fide commitments”.
 
 The bank chief sought to calm nerves, saying PNB had the “capability and capacity” to overcome the crisis. “The bank is working with full force to crack down against wrongdoers. We are committed to clean banking, that is why we are the first one to detect and report this to various law enforcement agencies,” Mehta said as he first read out a prepared statement at the press meet.
 
 While refusing to answer several questions, citing ongoing investigations, he said the bank had been going through the records of branches across the country over the last few days and had estimated the fraud at Rs 11,300 crore, which was limited to a branch in Mumbai. “We are trying to protect the interest of all lenders… If we find any loopholes, we will plug them.”
 
 Mehta further said the government was examining the issue on a day-to-day basis and he was in constant touch with the investigative and regulatory agencies.
 
 Asked about provisioning requirement, he said it was difficult to give any number as the matter was still under investigation. “We have not received any direction from the RBI, but whatever direction they will give we will comply.”
 
 The bank has already suspended 10 executives over the past few days.
 
 “In last 123 years, we have seen many ups and down, including challenges we faced at the time of partition (in 1947)... this fraud had started in 2011,” a usually-composed Mehta said.
 
