I went into the   in Cardiff, Wales, after winning two gold medals at the Tokyo Asian Games (men's 200m & 400m) the same year. With world-class athletes from Jamaica, South Africa, Kenya, England, Canada and Australia taking part, the competition in Cardiff was very tough. And, the obvious opinion among people in Cardiff was: ‘
 . India is nothing’.

 
 I was not sure I could win a gold at the Commonwealth Games. I never had that kind of faith because I was competing with world record holder   of South Africa. He was the best runner at the time in 400m.
 
 
  
  
 
 I will give credit (for the gold which I eventually won) to my American coach Dr Arthur W Howard. The first deputy director of NIS Patiala, Dr Howard was the athletics coach of the Indian team at the Games and planned the entire race strategy. He watched Spence running in the first and second rounds. The night before the final race, he sat on the charpai and my bed and told me: “Milkha, I understand only a bit of Hindi. But I’ll tell you about Mal Spence’s strategy and what you should do.”
 
 The coach told me that Spence would run the first 300-350m slowly (even then his pace was good) and beat his rivals to the tape in the final stretch. “You should go all out from the beginning because you have the stamina,” Dr Howard said. “If you do that, Spence will forget his strategy (of beating everyone in the last few metres).”
 
 I was on the outer lane, No. 5 (those days there were only six lanes) and Spence on the second in the 440-yard final at the Cardiff Arms Park stadium. Those days, lanes were allotted based on the number you picked from a bag and that’s how I got lane No. 5. We had to first run in the preliminary round, then the quarterfinals, semis and final.
 
 I went all out from the start, running very fast till the last 50m. And, just as Dr Howard said, Spence realised that ‘Singh had gone too far ahead’. It was obvious to me that Spence had forgotten his own race strategy as he tried to catch up with me. He ran fast and in the end, he was about a foot behind me. He was close to my shoulders till the very end but couldn’t beat me. I finished in 46.6 seconds and he timed 46.9s. It was thanks to Dr Howard that I won the gold medal.
 
 The gold medal was a big moment for India and I got calls and messages from a lot of people including Prime Minister Pandit Nehruji. He asked me: “Milkha, what do you want?” At that time, I didn’t know what to ask. I could have asked for 200 acres of land or houses in Delhi. I finally asked for one day’s holiday in India.
 
 
 
 
