PATNA: The   national general secretary in charge of the party’s   affairs, Bhupender Yadav, on Sunday told the state functionaries to be ideologically groomed for the quality transformation of the organization.

 Yadav, who was also the election in charge of the party in the recently concluded assembly elections in Gujarat, was conducting a stocktaking exercise of the party’s organizational affairs in the state.
 
 “Bhupender ji told us that the BJP should not be just ‘jan jan ki party (mass party)’ with an expanding mass base, but also distinct from the other parties that believe in ‘bheed tantra (crowd mechanism and machine)’. Also, that it should look different from other parties,” Bihar BJP president Nityanand Rai said.
 
 “He also said the party has to be lashed with ‘gyan-vigyan vichar (ideology based on knowledge and scientific understanding of things)’ to look different from other political outfits,” Rai said. 
 
 Yadav interacted with the Bihar BJP office-bearers and the ministers in the   government. He also held separate discussions with deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi and general secretary (organization) Nagendra Ji.
 
 Further, he held late night consultations with the core group at the residence of Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad about whom the grapevine is that he might be fielded from the   parliamentary seat in place of incumbent  , who has become critical of the party.
 
 However, what Yadav gave his observations on improving the image of the party are more being considered equally significant, now that the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre has already lived three and half years and is preparing for the 2019 parliamentary elections.
 
 He stressed on adding to the numerical strength of the party’s members, which stands at 80 lakh, to make it a mass party, but at the same time, insisted on proper ideological grooming of the rank and file. 
 
 The leadership and functionaries were told to work on the line of the party’s national president Amit Shah, who has asked the state leadership to also set up 19 departments and cells at the district level, so that the party’s ideological literature could be researched and prepared at the state level for mass distributed down the line up to the block and panchayat levels.
 
 
