As compared to other subjects,   is very easy to understand as it revolves around the various trends in society and relates to daily life. There are bright chances of scoring good   in this subject if one has gone through the concepts thoroughly. 

 Students must use their state board’s textbook to prepare for the lessons and later can refer other books as well for further clarity. The more knowledge they seek, they would be able to quote good examples in their answers. 
 
 In all seven units are prescribed in the syllabus out of which more weight is given to four, indicating that the two long answers of 10 marks would be from here. Topics in units 1,3,5 and 6 are very interesting. They cover Hindu social system, social problems like dowry, domestic violence and social changes like westernization, modernization and more. 
 
 There is a part that highlights contributions of about five social reformers towards uprooting social evils. If the answer is presented in a historic story format, it can impress the valuer. 
 
 Remembering important dates of different Acts and incidents is essential. The question paper is designed in a manner where difficulty level increases from easy to complex, so I recommend to follow the sequence while solving it. 
 
 Write the answers point wise and make sure the information is relevant. Underlining the side headings can make the paper an easy read for the examiner.
 
 There would be MCQs for 16 marks which can be cracked easily if the student is well versed with the lessons. 
 
 It is observed that students don’t read their question properly and when the ‘causes’ of dowry are asked, they write the ‘consequences’. So keep your mind calm and composed in the exam hall.
 
 The writer is a lecturer at  
 
 Paper snapshot
 
 Sociology (HSC)
 
 Date: March 7
 
 Duration: 3 hours
 
 Marks: 80 
 
 Expert tips 
 
 Underline the side headings in the answers
 
 Leave two lines after each sub question and start every question from fresh page
 
 Use bullet points to answer.
 
 Avoid scratching and maintain neatness
 
 Last-minute revision
 
 Pick up side headings of big answers and prepare a list. Refer to those keywords before the exam
 
 Give at least one reading to all the chapters
 
 Refer to the previous year’s papers
 
 
