 SC’s new Nigerian recruit Onyeama Francis Okechukwu saved his best for the last as his late strike helped secure an important point after sharing the spoils with   1-1 in a   clash at Tilak Maidan in Vasco on Saturday.
 
  After a dismal run of three consecutive defeats, Churchill hoped their fortunes would change with the inclusion of Francis and Jeancy Zunapio Siyo (Congo). Midfielder Kalu Ogba and striker Koffi Mechac were both released and head coach Alfred Fernandes waited for his new recruits to bail the team.
  
  Nothing seemed to go in the home team’s favour after Henry Kisekka put the visitors ahead in the 72nd minute. However, Francis produced a moment of brilliance in the second minute of additional time. The forward, who trained with the team only twice, received the ball outside the box, dribbled past Daniel Addo, Emmanuel Chigozie and even rounded off goalkeeper Bilal Khan to slam the ball home.
  
  It was a big moment for the two-time champions, who are now battling relegation. The 7-1 thrashing of Chennai City FC by East Bengal earlier in the day meant Churchill moved to the eighth place with 17 points and two games in hand. Relegation contenders Chennai have 16 points and will be relegated if they do not win their final league clash against Minerva Punjab. Churchill on the other hand will be safe if they can get three points from their remaining two matches.
  
  Gokulam, who were on a fine run after defeating big guns East Bengal, Mohun Bagan and title aspirants Minerva Punjab FC, settled for a point and remained seventh with 20 points.
  
  Francis and Siyo showed promise right from the start and could make an impact early on. However, Siyo, who last played in Bangladesh, could not connect a cross by Francis with only the goalkeeper at his mercy.
  
  Their passes and crosses certainly lacked quality even though Dawda Ceesay and Richard Costa, back from injury, tried to control the midfield.
  
  Gokulam enjoyed possession and were calling the shots but could not trouble Churchill goalkeeper James Kithan. Provat Lakra headed wide while efforts from Arjun Jayaraj and Henry didn’t hit the target.
  
  Gokulam head coach Bino George introduced Mahmood Alajmi in the second half and it provided the vital spark in midfield. Soon, the Bahraini set up Henry inside the box and the striker capitalised on Eldor Hussein’s miss-kick to shoot past Kithan in the 72nd minute.
  
  Man-of-the-Match Arjun could have handed his team full points in the 79th minute but his header hit the horizontal. That was a lifeline for Churchill, and they made the best use of it with a goal from Francis in stoppage time.
