HYDERABAD: More than half of Telangana, roughly over 2 crore people, will have access to clean natural gas — piped natural gas ( ) for cooking and CNG for driving — if everything goes well. As part of the national policy to turn India into a gas-based economy, oil regulator   (PNGRB) sought bids from investors for 20 districts in   entailing an overall investment of Rs 10,000 crore.

 
 In what is touted as India’s biggest city gas licensing auction, the 9th City Gas Distribution (CGD) bidding round covers 86 geographical areas for selling piped gas and CNG covering 174 districts in 22 states and Union Territories. Telangana will cover 20 districts which could lead to 70-75% of   coverage in the state. Currently, only Hyderabad has PNG covering a miniscule 7,757 households. “We are used to reaching out to the distribution company to fill up gas cylinders which is a hassle. This is a welcome step. Currently, it is 20 districts. Going forward, we hope the remaining Telangana districts too will be covered,” Telangana chief secretary Shailendra Kumar Joshi pointed out while urging PNGRB to work with the state government to ensure smooth laying of pipleines without much inconvience to the citizens.
  
  
 
 
 
 Speaking on the sidelines of the 9th CGD bidding round roadshow in the city on Tuesday, PNGRB member Satpal Garg said, “Each district will require around Rs 300-Rs 500 crore investment to build the necessary infrastructure. We expect the contracts to be awarded by October.”
 
 The oil regulator has been working towards increasing the share of natural gas in the energy basket in India from the current 6% to 15% by 2022. To achieve this, an additional 12,000 km of pipeline is under construction. Further, PNGRB is looking to set up a Gas Exchange hub similar to the  . The hub, Garg, said will determine the price of gas depending on the market forces eliminating the government’s role in fixing gas prices. The exchange can be either “a physical or virtual hub” and its location will depend on where the major pipelines are present, Garg said. “The major pipelines are connected in Gujarat, Maharashtra and   in AP. It will be any one of these places,” he added. Global research firm Crisil has been appointed to assist PNGRB in framing regulations for the gas exchange hub within 18 weeks from May 11, Garg said. So far, 91 geographical areas were awarded contracts in eight bidding rounds and the progress of the contracts are being reviewed by PNGRB. Around 35-36 operators were asked to submit their “catch-up plan” for their failure to meet deadlines, while around 30 operators could face possible penalities.
 
 
 
