Trichy: ChildLine India Foundation (CIF) will now hunt for a new organisation to operate the 1098 helpline in Trichy as its collaborative agency has suspended its service because of administrative difficulties.  Sisters of the Cross Society for Education Development (SOC-SEAD), the Trichy-based NGO that worked with the CIF, has conveyed its decision in this regard to the latter, with the move officially taking effect on March 31. The SOC-SEAD has confirmed the report stating that the organisation had volunteered to pull out of the service for administrative reasons.  “We have too many projects. So, we are unable to run ChildLine,” director of SOC-SEAD SR I Josephine Chinnarani told TOI.  The agency had been working with the CIF since the launch of ChildLine helpline in India two decades ago. It had dealt with calls from children seeking medical help, shelter and protection from abuse as well as emotional support and guidance. Going by the data of the nodal agency, ChildLine 1098 had received 610 calls between April 2017 and January 2018.  The abuses were classified into five – child marriage, child labour, child begging, physical abuse and child sexual abuse.  Following the sudden withdrawal of the service, it is learnt that the CIF has been experiencing difficulties especially in handling calls to the helpline regarding juvenile issues.  Later, it entrusted the nodal agency with the task since April 1.  “We have seen the intimation from CIF this morning. Our nodal agency staff will coordinate with the officials concerned in the department to receive calls and for intervention,” said director of the nodal agency J Godwin Prem Singh. Despite being pushed into a tough situation, the nodal agency has still rescued four girl children from proposed child marriages in Trichy, with the help of officials from the district child protection office (DCPO). Besides, the team has dealt with some other complaints from children as well. While it is an ad hoc arrangement, the CIF has the responsibility of finding a suitable NGO to take charge as the child helpline agency in Trichy.  “The process to select the new NGO is yet to commence. It will soon take place. The nodal agency will take care of the activities until then,” Tamil Nadu state in-charge of CIF M Prabhu said.