SECUNDERABAD: If GHMC has its way, traffic woes at the busy Shenoy Nursing Home junction in West Marredpally should come to an end in the next five months once the civic body completes junction improvement works by August-end. However, the big question doing the rounds is: Will the grand proposal take off at all?

 The plan is likely to hit a roadblock as GHMC has to acquire land from private owners/properties on all four sides of the junction which, experts said, is improbable, given the narrow space at the junction and the multi-storied constructions and a clinic located bang on the main road.
 
 
 “While the effort to expand the 60ft road into an 80ft road is laudable as part of junction improvement, how will the authorities overcome three major bottlenecks (two apartment complexes and the hospital) on both sides of the road and pull them down,” wondered K Narasimhan, an old resident.
 
 GHMC is keen to take up the work as part of the urban junction improvement plan (UJIP) in 30 major junctions. “We are looking at acquiring 50ft area from private properties on all four sides. We are ready to pay double the market rate (?30,000 per sft) to those who would lose land/property,” a senior official said. After much hullabaloo, GHMC dropped the idea of acquiring a portion of the cricket playground on the left side and will now take only 10ft without disturbing the playground area. “We want to complete the work by August-end,” the   said.
 
 Alarge number of commuters use the junction to head towards Tukaram Gate, Addagutta, Mahindra Hills, AOC and Kasturba Gandhi Degree College. “The narrow junction is unable to take the burgeoning traffic load. Once the junction is expanded on all four sides, it will ensure smooth flow of traffic. We will construct a new bus bay on the playground side once the works are over,” an official said. Plans are also afoot to widen the road between Eswari Bai statue and  
 
 Commuters coming from Safilguda, Malkajgiri, Neredmet, Sainikpuri, Mahendra Hills and adjoining areas and proceeding towards Secunderabad depend on this junction.
 
 In a recent study, it was found out that 15,000 to 18,000 vehicles cross the junction   between 9.45am and 7pm and of them, 47 per cent are two-wheelers, 27 per cent cars and remaining 26 per cent are city  .
 
