Hyderabad: City-based vaccine maker Bharat Biotech on Wednesday said its Typhoid Conjugate Vaccine — Typbar TCV — has received pre-qualification from the World Health Organisation (WHO). 

 This will enable the company to supply the life saving vaccine to UNICEF, Pan-American Health Organization (PAHO) and GAVI supported countries, giving it access to over 120 countries, Bharat Biotech chairman and managing director Krishna Ella told newspersons here.
 
 “Typbar TCV has been evaluated in Human Challenge Studies at Oxford University and recommended by WHO’s Strategic Advisory Group of Experts on Immunization (WHO-SAGE) for use in infants between six and 23 months of age and catch up vaccinations for children between two and 15 years of age. This recommendation paves the way for countries to introduce the vaccine into their immunization programme,” Ella said, pointing out that Typbar TCV is the first typhoid conjugate vaccine that has been clinically proven to be administered to children from six months of age to adults and confers long-term protection against typhoid fever.
 
 According to Ella, the company has, over a span of 14 years, invested Rs 150 crore on the development and clinical studies for the vaccine, which has an addressable global market of around $2 billion.
 
 Though Bharat Biotech has already been selling the vaccine in the private market at Rs 1,500 per dose, it will be supplying it at $1.5 per dose for GAVI supported countries and will reduce the price further to around $1 or below per dose post procurement of 100 million doses for low income and low-middle income countries in the larger interests of global public health, Ella said, adding that the company is also collaborating with the Clinton Health Access Initiative (CHAI). 
 
 Ella said Bharat Biotech is able to supply up to 50 million doses per annum of the vaccine and is actively working on expanding its capacities to step it up to 200 mdpa. 
 
 As per International Health Metrics and Evaluation estimates, there were around 12 million cases of typhoid fever in 2016, resulting in around 130,000 deaths. Typhoid fever is caused by the bacterium Salmonella Typhi (S Typhi), which infects humans due to contaminated food and beverages from sewage and other infected humans. 
 
 Currently a third of the global population is at risk of typhoid fever, which results in reduced school attendance, loss of work and wages, lowered pregnancy outcomes and impaired physical and cognitive development of children. In most developing countries, the cost of a course of typhoid fever treatment ranges from $50 to $5000 for outpatient and inpatient treatments, the company said.
 
 
