The civic body’s ambitious plan to construct 82 of the proposed 113 overhead tanks to ensure adequate water in the scarcity-hit areas has finally gathered pace after many a false start.

 The contractor appointed by the   (PMC) has started construction of 33 water tanks in the first phase. The work order for constructing 25 tanks will be issued in two months in the second phase. As many as 24 tanks will be built in the third phase and 31 tanks will be constructed in the fourth phase. The project will be completed by December 2019.
 
 
  
 
 The process of laying underground pipelines, installing water meters, electric motors, wiring, supplying power, drawing water and identifying legal and illegal water connections will be completed by 2022.
 
 The PMC had made a budgetary provision of Rs 245 crore for constructing 113 tanks. A decision to provide 24x7 water supply was taken keeping in mind concerns such as rapid urbanisation, increase in population, merger of fringe villages and complaints of erratic supply.
 
 A plan to ensure equitable distribution of water in the long run was made because the population of Pune will cross the 73 lakh-mark by 2047 from the existing over 33 lakh as per the 2011Census.
 
 Former mayor   said, “Pune was earlier a small city and water tanks constructed at the Cantonment water works, Bakri Hills, Ramtekdi, Ghorpadi and other places were sufficient to cater to the needs. But the population has increased because of the rise in the number of construction and there are a variety of complaints in terms of water supply. All this prompted us decide to construct 113 overhead tanks and meet the city’s water requirements till 2050.”
 
 PMC chief engineer (water supply)   said, “The construction of the overhead water tanks having a capacity of 10 lakh and 2 crore MLD will ensure equitable distribution of water. Besides, it will help us store water that can be used depending on the requirements. We are lifting 1,350 MLD water and there is sufficient water for the city. But distribution is unequitable. The project for meeting the increase water requirements was prepared while taking into consideration the growth of the city by 2050. We are receiving water from Panshet, Varasgaon, Khadakwasla and Themghar dams.”
 
 Engineer   said, “The residents of Dhanorie, Lohegaon, Kalas, Tingrenagar, Kharadi, Chandannagar and several suburbs of Hadapsar, Kondhwa Khurd, Kondhwa Budruck, Katraj, Warje Malwadi and Balewadi depend on bore wells and tankers because the supply of PMC is irregular, Sometimes, water supplied at a very low pressure. For instance, Lohegaon does not receive water for eight days. There are complaints that water is diverted to some areas. We want the civic body to increase the timing and pressure of water and lay new pipelines and ensure equitable distribution. PMC has plans to draw water from Bhama Askhed dam in Khed. But the local villagers have opposed the move.”
 
 Businessman   said, “The PMC has proposed to construct an overhead tank on a hill named after the famous Agham mandir at Katraj. Construction work of another tank is on at  . If the construction is put on a fast track, then residents of Ambegaon, Dattanagar, Jhambulwadi, Katraj and Guzarwadi will receive water with increased pressure.”
 
