GURUGRAM: The police on Sunday launched an e-challaning system in Gurugram to tackle traffic violators, making it the first district in   to have such a facility, but traffic policemen in the city will not be able to fine motorists who breach the speed limit. An RTI query revealed that all six traffic interceptors of the police have been lying defunct for at least two years. A police officer also said the interceptors fail to check if motorists are exceeding the speed limit owing to “a technical glitch”. 

 Deputy commissioner of police Deepak Gahlawat launched the e-challaning system by issuing e-tickets to a few traffic offenders at Rajiv Chowk on the Delhi-Gurugram expressway. According to Gahlawat, both the system and software for e-tickets were developed by the   (NIC), and as of now, as many as 82 machines have been provided to the police controlling traffic on Gurugram roads. However, a senior police officer said, this won’t help police much to curb the menace of speeding owing to defunct interceptors. The officer also did not deny the findings of the RTI query filed by activist Harinder Dhingra in December 2017. “We are trying to fix the interceptors to resume speed monitoring across the city,” he said. 
 
 According to the police data, speeding is found to be the major cause of accidents in 14 spots of the city, including Sirhaul where a number of route diversions were initiated by the authorities recently. Apart from this stretch on the Delhi-Gurugram expressway, Raj Nagar mod, Naurangpur mod, Bilaspur, Manesar, Kapriwas, Bandhswari mod, Subash Chowk and Bakhtawar Chowk are among the many accident spots in the city where the key reason for accidents is found to be speeding.
 
 Of the six interceptors, one was procured by thepolice itself, while the rest were donated by a private auto company. Replying to an RTI query, the police said that these vehicles have not been maintained properly for last three years. Of the six interceptors, five belong to a type called prolester-4, while remaining one is of prolestor-III type. They have been imported from a US-based firm into the city to tackle speeding. The   facility will allow cops to automate the process of generation of challans for traffic offences and collect payments on the spot.
 
 
