Ghaziabad: The GDA will begin a massive   from Sunday to raze unauthorised constructions on the floodplains of Hindon river adjoining the Pushta Road in  . The decision to undertake the drive was taken after a survey conducted in the floodplains on Saturday by a team of officials on the directions of GDA vice-chairperson  .

 The survey was ordered on the basis of a TOI report last week that had highlighted largescale unauthorised constructions on the floodplains. “The survey has revealed that there is largescale unauthorised construction in the area. Apart from a few stone crusher units, a number of residential units have also been built illegally on the floodplains. A drive to raze the unauthorised constructions will commence on Sunday and necessary arrangements including appointment of an executive magistrate and a police force has been done. The drive will be undertaken in phases,” Ritu Maheshwari told TOI.
 
 The survey on Saturday was supervised by GDA’s officer-on-special duty Dayanand Prasad. He said stone crushers operating illegally on the floodplains would be removed in the first phase of the drive in the area.
 
 “Subsequently, boundaries of illegally carved out plots will be razed. In the next phase, we will figure out how to raze the multiple dwelling units that have cropped up in the area in the recent past. A number of colonies have come up on the floodplains,” said Prasad.
 
 The Federation of Apartment Owners’ Association had written to the GDA asking its intervention to stop mushrooming of illegal colonies on the  . The federation cited orders of the Allahabad high court, the NGT and the UP government to buttress the fact that constructions are not permitted on the floodplain. The federation also alleged that the illegal colonies have led to unplanned and haphazard development of Indirapuram besides resulting in air and water pollution.
 
 “Land sharks return to business after lying low for a period of time following an anti-encroachment drive. In order to prevent encroachments from recurring, government agencies should protect the floodplain with fences or barbed wires. Signboards should be placed by the administration along the Pushta Road warning against encroachments and alerting buyers not to invest their hard-earned money on the floodplains because it is illegal,” said federation president Alok Kumar.
 
 
