PATNA: Chief minister   on Friday returned to the state capital after his four-day visit to Japan where he met the country’s PM Shinzo Abe and several other dignitaries.

 The CM and other members of his team landed at the JPNI airport here around 2pm. A group of ruling JD (U) workers welcomed the CM by beating drums. They also arranged a band party to accord warm welcome to the CM.
 
 Altogether four ministers and nearly 12 legislators were present at the airport with bouquets to greet the CM. They included rural development minister Shravan Kumar, education minister  , minority welfare minister Khurshid Alam, cooperative minister Rana Randhir, BJP MLA Gyanendra Singh Gyanu and JD (U) MLCs Sanjay Singh alias Gandhiji and Chandeshwar Prasad Chandravanshi. 
 
 During his meeting with Shinzo Abe in Tokyo,   sought Japan’s technical support for laying high speed rail link in the state to connect places related to Buddhist circuit. The proposed high speed rail link will be known as ‘peace corridor’. 
 
 The CM also met Japan’s foreign minister Taro Kono and discussed ties between the two nations.
 
 Nitish also held a separate meeting with Masafumi Shukuri, chairman of  , and discussed about the proposed ‘peace corridor’ in Bihar. After a fruitful talk, Nitish invited Shukuri and his team of experts to visit   for pre-survey of the proposed ‘peace corridor.”
 
 On Day 3 of his four-day visit, Nitish visited Japan’s Nara city and proposed to have a ‘sister state twining agreement’ with Nara prefecture and Bihar’s Bodh Gaya to strengthen bilateral relations between the two places of Buddhist importance. Nara’s prefectural governor Shogo Arai supported Nitish’s proposal and also agreed to follow it up.
 
 Hailing the Bihar CM’s visit to Japan, Bihar Industries Association (BIA) president K P S Keshri on Friday said there was tremendous possibility of bringing investments from Japan, but it would not happen in single visit. “We will have to continue the process of interaction and bilateral talks with the prospective investors from Japan if we want to take benefit from them,” Keshri, who was part of the delegation to Japan, told TOI. “We will have to develop our infrastructure and ecosystem in such a way that it suits the Japanese investors,” he added. 
 
 
