THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: There is a notable increase in the annual plan outlay of  , finance minister TM   told the state   on Thursday.

 Responding to a notice on adjournment motion by   of the Congress, the minister said the outlay for the current year was Rs 9,774 crore, up from the previous year’s Rs 8,671crore.
 
 Satheesan has alleged that the local   (LSGIs) were facing a severe financial crisis. He argued that the state government had cut the devolution of funds to local bodies, discarding the recommendations of the fifth state finance commission.
 
 The MLA said the state government had not accepted recommendations aimed at strengthening the financial stability of local self-governments whereas it embarrassed recommendations for revenue mobilisation.
 
 The UDF MLA accused the finance minister for rejecting his own demands, which he had raised while in the opposition. Isaac had demanded that funds to local bodies should be released in 12 instalments, but he rejected the same when the state finance commission pushed the same idea, he said.
 
 Isaac said the government had restricted the release of funds and the LSGIs were allowed to furnish bills for payment even beyond March 31.
 
 He added that there were provisions for carrying over unspent funds and executive spill over works.
 
 The minister said the government had accepted most of the recommendations of the commission and rejected only a few, which, if implemented, would bleed the state finances.
 
 Isaac said it was the Union government policies that forced him to change his stand regarding the transfer of funds in 12 instalments. If LSGIs and other organisations park unspent funds in treasury accounts, it would affect the state’s borrowing limit, he said.
 
 Opposition leader   accused the government of showing scant regard towards the state finance commission. He said the commission, being a constitutional body, warranted respect. The government cannot write off the recommendations. He accused the government for upsetting the decentralisation of powers and funds to local bodies.
 
 The opposition walked out of the assembly in protest against speaker’s denial of permission to the motion.
 
