CHANDIGARH:   DGP B S Sandhu on Wednesday said the youngsters participating in violent protests in the state would be barred from the police’s latest recruitment drive hiring 7,000 constables.

 The DGP’s statement has come two weeks before the Jat community is expected to go on a protest in  , Rohtak, on June 2, demanding a share in the quota under other backward classes. He was speaking during an interaction with journalists, after chairing a meeting with the station house officers (SHOs) and the supervising officers of women police stations in the state.
 
 He said the state police had enough mechanisms to identify such youth. “To stage protests is a democratic right, but nobody has the right to take law in their hands. The recruitments are for a disciplined force; we will ensure that wrong persons are not inducted into it,” he said.
 
 He admitted to some shortcomings in the functioning of women police stations. He, however, said police stations were largely doing well. “Operational shortcomings are related to infrastructure. We are trying to weed out all issues,” the DGP said.
 
 Sandhu said they had deployed three women sub-inspectors (SIs) at each women’s police station in the state. “This will help ensure efficient investigations into crimes against women,” he said.
 
 He added that the women’s helpline 1091 would be linked to the state’s centralized monitoring system to ensure it was examined at the police headquarters. “This will help provide immediate assistance,” he added.
 
 Sandhu said the process for recruitment of 73 women SIs had been started. “After this is completed, police officers will be deployed at women police stations. Of the 7,000 constables, 1,000 will be women,” he said.
 
 In reply to another question concerning inter-state crime control, the DGP said a meeting to that effect was convened recently with Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Delhi. “We hope to get fruitful results very soon,” he said.
 
 Asked to comment on the proposed Jat reservation agitation in Jassia on June 2, Sandhu said everyone had a right to protest in a democracy in a peaceful manner. “At the same time, I would like to clarify that   are fully capable of maintaining law and order in the state,” he said.
 
 
