SURAT: SURATi iLAB, an institution being set up to encourage innovation, function as startup incubator and trade facilitator, is likely to become operational in June.

  It is being set up by the local administration to put Surat on startup map of India by developing an ecosystem for innovation and research and promote upcoming entrepreneurs. 
 
 “SURATi iLAB, which is supported by the Smart City Mission and the   (SMC), would be made a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) soon. Its registration would be completed by month-end,”   chief executive officer   said. 
 
 “It would be converting startup ideas into reality and promote ‘Brand Surat’, ‘Make in Surat’ and ‘Made in Surat’. It aspires for a digital intervention to capitalize on new sources of economy while maintaining Surat’s dominance in diamond and textile sectors through innovations in the emerging areas of Internet of Things (IoT), 3D printing, blockchain, robotics, machine learning and artificial intelligence,” he added. 
 
 The first phase of SURATi iLAB would begin at   in June. It will offer state-of-the-art infrastructure for 120 people with high speed internet connectivity, hi-tech laboratory, auditorium, conference rooms, cafeteria, library etc. along with access to groups of mentors and functional experts besides stakeholders. About Rs 3 crore is being spent on the first phase. The budget earmarked for SURATi iLAB is Rs 20 crore.
 
 Its second phase will be completed at Dumbhal in December next. The iconic four-storey state-of-the-art facility will have working space for 500 people and an auditorium, a maker’s space, Fablab, training laboratories, conference rooms, residential facility, cafeteria etc. 
 
 “This is a first-ever project in India by a city government to promote ideas, innovation and incubation. Its role will be to act as a single window for any organization to do business with Surat and develop an ecosystem of national and international level and facilitate collaboration with Surat. The project also aims at fostering convergence of Surat city with national flagship programmes like Startup India, Standup India, Digital India, Skill India and Atal Innovation Mission,” a SMC officer said. 
 
 
