BENGALURU: Prime plots, swanky homes, gold/silver jewellery, home appliances and automobiles...The raids by the Anti-Corruption Bureau ( ) over the past two days have unearthed assets worth more than Rs 40 crore, believed to be amassed by tainted state government officials.

 The outcome of the second statewide flash raids by ACB has raised eyebrows in terms of the wealth accumulated by 12 officers working in Bengaluru. Sources said the raids are still on. 
 
  
 The ACB said B S  , superintendent engineer of the technical vigilance committee under the BBMP commissioner, had the most hoarded assets. His wealth includes crores of rupees of property in Bengaluru, including two swanky houses, three commercial complexes and 40 guntas of land apart from   and silver.
 
 Prahalad’s colleague Narashimalu, a tax auditor at the BBMP’s CV Raman Nagar sub division, owns three houses, four prime plots and a commercial complex, all in Bengaluru.
 
 Another city-based official R V Kantaraju, deputy director, urban planning, BDA, has four houses in Bengaluru apart from 10 acres of agriculture land in nearby Ramanagara district. Meanwhile, NRM Nagarajan, superintendent engineer, KPTCL, Kengeri, owns two houses in Bengaluru apart from 10 plots in Bengaluru, Raichur, Hospet and other parts of Karnataka.
 
 Rekha, panchayat development officer of Vajarahalli village in Nelamangala, who was the only woman officer to be raided recently, owns a swanky four-storey building and eight prime plots in Nelamangala apart from Rs 36.10 lakh in various banks.
 
 Seven other officers raided by ACB include  , assistant commissioner, Ballari sub division; B S Balan, assistant executive engineer, Karnataka irrigation department, Bhadravathi; J C Jagadesappa, assistant executive engineer, KPTCL, Honnali, Davanagere; Venkatesh, assistant engineer, PWD, Sakleshpur, Hassan; Ashok Gowdappa Patil, executive officer, Nargund taluk panchayat, Gadag; Somappa L Lamani, branch superintendent, zilla panchayat engineering division, Vijayapura and Amaresh Benchamaradi, sanitary inspector incharge, Raichur municipality. They also owned large portions of property, gold, silver, cash and even home appliances disproportionate to known sources of income. 
 
 ACB sleuths are probing further into the seizures of individual officers; they will be sent questionnaires on their assets for which they should show proof of source in a stipulated time.
 
 
 
 PWD assistant engineer Venkatesh posted at Sakleshpur in Hassan district had an astounding collection of saris worth Rs 13 lakh at home. Apart from saris, 1.5kg of gold, 3kg of silver and Rs 52,000 were discovered from his residence during the Thursday’s flash raid. Venkatesh has been asked to explain on the source of saris.
 
 
