BENGALURU: A day after police recovered the decomposed body of a 40-year-old woman from her mother’s house on  , off Commercial Street, police on Tuesday detained a man said to be her friend.

 Tara  , 40, a homemaker from   in JC Nagar and mother of two school-going boys, was found dead at her mother Sarala’s residence on Monday evening.
 
 Though police could not identify any injury marks on the body as it had decomposed, a deeper examination during postmortem revealed that her throat had been slit. 
 
  The incident came to light when Tara’s mother   returned to the city from Hubballi, where she had gone on a pilgrimage on December 29. 
 
 “Sarala had told Tara that she’d be out of town for three days as she was going on a pilgrimage. Tara told her that she’d stay in the house till her mother returned. She went to Sarala’s house on Friday evening,” Tara’s family members told police.
 
 Investigations revealed Tara’s husband, Prabhu, is a small-time financer and pigeon trainer. “The suspect, who has been detained now, had come to Prabhu a few years ago to get trained in pigeon rearing. Gradually, he became a family friend,” police sources said.
 
 “The crime scene indicates it wasn’t a murder for gain. The main door was intact, indicating a person known to Tara entered the house. Valuables, including the gold chain and bangles she was wearing, were found intact. Cupboards were untouched and other valuables inside the house were intact. This clearly indicates the assailant had personal rivalry with Tara,” police sources said.
 
 “We are questioning the suspect. We want to know if there was any monetary transaction between the woman and the suspect or any other reason that provoked him,” senior police officer said.
 
 Police said Tara’s family members claimed they didn’t know the suspect. Initial investigations suggest Tara may have been killed on Friday night. “We are also looking at why Tara’s family members did not call her for three days,” a police officer added.
 
 The body bore no visible wounds, but police registered a murder case suspecting foul play. They are awaiting postmortem report. 
 
