THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In view of the widespread criticism against misuse of special considerations available for disabled students appearing for SSLC examination, the state education department has tightened the procedures for claiming such benefits.

 
 The revised guidelines, issued by the state education department on May 15, directed school authorities to prepare the list of students in need of special considerations before the commencement of first terminal examinations. Currently, the practice is to obtain a disability certification in the last minute and submit the same to the government even a day before the examination. The connivance of parents and school authorities are often considered to be the reason for spurt in such applications.
 
 
  
 
 “Over 18,000 candidates obtained special permission this year for SSLC examination. Till a few years ago, the number used to be a few hundred only. There is every reason to believe that a major chunk of the students claim special benefits such as grace marks, scribe support and extra time without genuine reasons. The tendency to misuse the benefits meant for disabled children cannot be entertained,” said general education secretary A Shajahan.
 
 The school authorities, the guidelines said, should identify the children with learning disabilities before the first terminal examination and publish the same promptly on the school notice board. The schools should provide all help to such students, once they are identified with certain learning disabilities and the medical board certify the same. Early preparation of the list would help the education department to closely evaluate each of the applications before granting them special privileges.
 
 “It might true that the early preparation of the list would reduce the last minute rush. It may also help the department to cross check the genuineness of the applications. But, the cardinal issue remains unaddressed. The special benefits only help the disabled children to score better marks. It contributes nothing towards the holistic development of the children. It doesn’t equip them to face posterity with confidence. The government should explore different methods to assess the knowledge base of such children. Instead of helping them to obtain higher marks, the department should focus on their comprehensive development,” said psychiatrist  .
 
 According to him, some teachers even tutor children on how to react to the questions of a psychiatrist when they are brought before him for certification.
 
 
 
 
