TUTICORIN/CHENNAI: Intelligence failure and lack of preparedness left police running for cover as a huge mobilization of crowd protesting against Sterlite copper smelter plant turned violent at Tuticorin on Tuesday. Protesters, who numbered around 5,000 in the morning, climbed to 15,000 as the day progressed. Mob unleashed attack on police by pelting stones and torching police vehicles, resulting in the force opening fire to bring the situation under control.

 “We did not expect any major violence. Around 1,500 police personnel were deployed for security arrangements initially. Another 1,000 were mobilised after the protest turned violent,” a police officer said. Clamping Sec. 144 of Cr.PC at the district collectorate had no impact, though the plant and surrounding areas remained calm. An intelligence official claimed his department had alerted Tuticorin superintendent of police about possible violence.
 
 The mob turned violent as many radical elements had infiltrated into the protesting crowd. 
 
 Deputy inspector general of police of Tirunelveli range,   is among the officers who were injured. He suffered injuries in stone pelting at VVD Signal. When more policemen came under attack, police resorted to lathi-charge. But the crowd ploughed through the police barricades, burning vehicles and pelting stones on the way. As violence spread to the collectorate, police opened fire. Sixteen policemen suffered head injuries in stone pelting and were admitted to  .
 
 The intelligence wing of   police have a long history of bungling in Tuticorin district. In the 90s, police were taken by surprise when about 5,000 villagers assembled at   station in Tuticorin district to block train in the dead of the night. It took six hours for police to even reach the spot.
 
 State intelligence wing has an extensive network with constabulary-level personnel in every police station and senior officers like deputy superintendents of police at district headquarters. It is headed by an inspector general of police at Chennai, who is among the very few officials who have access to the chief minister day in and day out.
 
 Sources in the government said the chief minister gave a piece of his mind to senior police officials and intelligence chief   on Tuesday evening for not informing him about the massive build-up at Tuticorin. Moreover, the Madurai bench of the Madras high court, in a petition filed by  , had ordered Tuticorin district collector to consider Vedanta’s request to declare area surrounding the Sterlite plant as no-protest zone by invoking prohibitory orders under Sec. 144 of Cr.PC. The court had taken cognizance of the inflammatory pamphlets circulated by a new outfit, “Makkal Athikaram” which had threatened to unleash violence during the May 22nd protest. But police failed to take cue.
 
 
