PATNA: The Patna Municipal Corporation ( ) and private firm Nishka have blamed it on each other for the failure of the door-to-door garbage collection facility was launched on a public-private partnership mode in April last year.

 According to sources, city-based Nishka and Delhi-based Patheya were roped in to carry out the door-to-door garbage collection work in 55 wards of the PMC, including Bankipore, New Capital and Kankerbagh circles. Every household, except the ones living below poverty line, had to spend Rs 60 per month whereas commercial establishments had to pay anywhere between from Rs 300 and Rs 10,000 to avail the facility.
 
 Patna mayor Sita Sahu, however, claims that the two agencies hired to collect trash have not been able to meet people’s expectations. “I have received a number of complaints in connection with the door-to-door garbage collection facility and will discuss this issue in the next PMC meeting. If the agencies do not mend their ways, I will be compelled to look for alternative arrangements,” Sahu said on Wednesday.
 
 PMC commissioner Keshav Ranjan Prasad told this newspaper he would personally review the status of the door-to-door trash collection project. He also assured that steps would soon be taken to improve the facility or appoint new agencies for the purpose.
 
 A senior official of Nishka, however, passed the buck for poor implementation of the door-to-door garbage collection drive to the PMC. He said, “We did not get full cooperation from the civic body. Our total expenditure is around Rs 30-40 lakh, but revenue collection is only Rs 7 lakh. Only we know how we are managing things.”
 
 Patnaites it seems are the worst sufferers. Kankerbagh resident Khushboo Kumari said her complaints fell on deaf ears. “During the first three months, the workers collected trash four times a week, but they stopped coming after that,” she said.
 
 Rajendra Nagar resident Shailesh Kumar claimed that the door-to-door garbage collection facility, which was launched to make the city filth-free, had been poorly implemented so far. 
 
 “Now, most of the time people dump their garbage in nearby parks or on the roadside. If the civic body and the agencies responsible for collecting trash from our houses will not pay heed to our complaints, what else are we supposed to do,” Kumar asked.
 
 
