NEW DELHI: Today’s Eliminator between Kolkata Knight Riders and Rajasthan Royals at Eden Gardens has left West Indian legend Sir   mulling the two teams’ passage to the   play-offs, and he has singled out Rajasthan’s determination, with a slice of luck, as the standout features. 

 
 
 
 
 Returning to the   fold after a two-year suspension, Rajasthan were hit before a ball was bowled when their skipper Steven Smith was ruled out of the IPL following the ball-tampering controversy, which pushed up   to the leadership role. Despite Rahane’s struggles as a batsman, and under-par performances my Jaydev Unadkat,  , D’Arcy Short and Stuart Bunny, the Jaipur franchise stayed in contention for the play-offs largely due to Job Buttler’s five consecutive half-centuries and some superb supporting acts from Shreyas Gopal, K Gowtham, Rahul Tripathi and Ish Sodhi. 
 
 The absence of Buttler and Stokes is a major handicap for Rahane’s team as they face KKR in today’s loser-goes-home clash, but Richards believes there is a steeliness to them that underlines plenty. 
 
 “Rajasthan Royals definitely thanked their luck that allowed them to qualify for the eliminator. Rajasthan had only retained Steve Smith during the auction and after unforeseen circumstances, he was unable to play, making Rajasthan think on their feet. Being mentored by the legendary Australian spinner Shane Warne, along with Ajinkya Rahane who stepped up to take on the captain’s responsibility, the boys in blue were ready for a fight ahead and their hard work paid off in the end,” wrote Richards in his Times of India column. 
 
 “Both teams have had major hurdles to overcome over the course of the season, but the young RR players who stepped up and put their best foot forward, gave the team and the fans that extra spark and the motivation they needed. Both K Gowtham and Shreyas Gopal were fabulous. They have been the Royals' magic along with  's top-notch knocks and not to forget Sanju Samson’s contribution in the early stages.”
 
 KKR, captained by Dinesh Karthik, have proven a formidable team. Despite injuries to two key bowlers, and a shaky start, they finished the league stage at third place on the IPL 2018 points table. Richards singled out Karthik’s leadership and clinical finishing abilities, as well as the impact that Sunil Narine (327 runs) and Chris Lynn (425 runs) have had as an opening act. 
 
 “This season has not been flawless for the Kolkata Knight Riders as well, but more about scrapping and getting the job done until they found their mojo again. Although Dinesh Karthik’s leadership was not very fluid to start off, he has slowly become more definitive and the man himself has grown as a thinking captain,” he wrote. 
 
 “His moves on the field are affirmative and one that has the stamp of practicality at all times. The openers, Sunil Narine and Chris Lynn have been their elixir this season. They are very consistent with their starts, allowing Karthik to come lower down the order and apply the finishing touches to the innings.”
 
 
