YAMUNANAGAR: The Class XII student of Swami Vivekanand School in  , who pumped three bullets into his school principal leading to her death, showed little remorse and instead tried to gain public sympathy by claiming he had also sustained injury on his forehead and that he should be treated with kindness.

 The boy, who reportedly celebrated his 18th birthday on January 6 , reached the school early on Saturday morning with his father’s licensed revolver tucked in his trousers and waited outside the school for the gates to open. As the school began, he entered the premises and walked around before entering the principal’s office where he shot at her. Three bullets hit Ritu Chabbra that proved fatal for her.
 
 As he tried to escape, the 18-year-old was caught by school staffers and parents, who gave him a thorough beating and recovered the weapon used in the crime from his possession. However showing no remorse, the boy tried to gain their sympathy and claimed that he had sustained an injury on his forehead and the people should be kind to him.
 
 He was snubbed by the parents, who held him by his collar till the police arrived. On being asked for the reason why he shot at the school principal, he told the parents that she used to harass him for no reason at all.
 
 Later, one of the family friends of the boy told the TOI that his father had scolded him over being rusticated from the school after which he probably was nursing a grudge against the school principal.
 
 The father of the accused, who is a resident of Hamida Colony in Yamunanagar, is a financier and was away to his farm in   village when the incident took place. On hearing that his son had shot dead the school principal, he rushed back to Yamunanagar where he was arrested by the cops under the Arms Act.
 
 President of   Kamal   said they were shocked over the incident and were extending support to the police investigators. He however, denied that the boy had been rusticated from the school.
 
 Deceased’s husband Rajesh Chhabra, a businessman and resident of   in Yamunanagar, said the entire family was in shock and trying to figure out as to why a Class XII student would enter the school with a revolver and fire at the principal. “My wife was a gentle person and would desist from scolding students believing that they needed to be encouraged rather than being punished,” he said. One of Chhabra’s relative   said on hearing the news, Rajesh had almost fainted from shock and had to be revived by the family members.
 
 
