NEW DELHI: In a relief to witnesses in the   gang rape-murder case, who have accused Jammu and Kashmir police of torturing them, the Supreme Court on Thursday directed police to interrogate them only in the presence of their family members. 

  A bench of Chief Justice Dipak Misra and Justices A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud said relatives of the witnesses will be allowed to be present at a "reasonably visible distance" from the interrogation. The court said witnesses are young students and there is nothing wrong in allowing family members to be around. "We have protected the rights of victim's family members by transferring the trial of the case outside the state and the interests of witnesses should also be protected. They are young boys," the bench said after the state government stiffly opposed family members being present at the time of interrogation. 
 
 Senior advocate P S Patwalia and J&K's standing counsel M Shoeb Alam contended that the witnesses had not made any allegations of torture between March 30 and May 10 and they approached the court only after coming to know that forensic reports had proved their statements, recorded before a magistrate, to be wrong.
 
  "There was not a murmur regarding torture earlier. They are not innocent children. The statements made by them were not accurate. The forensic report proved their statements wrong and that is why they are making allegations against police to protect themselves," Patwalia told the bench. He said a probe is still on in the case and supplementary chargesheet will soon be filed after interrogating the witnesses. 
 
  Senior advocate Arvind Datar, appearing for the witnesses, however said they are college students, enrolled at an agriculture college in Uttar Pradesh, and pleaded the bench to intervene to protect them. He said the students were writing an exam on the date of the incident. 
 
 Countering Datar's arguments, the state government placed its confidential probe report which purportedly exposed the witnesses for making wrong statements to protect the accused in the case. It requested the bench to go through the report before passing an order. 
 
 The bench, however, said it is not concerned about the ongoing probe and was also not commenting on the role of police in investigations. The court made it clear that it was also not accepting the allegation of torture against the police but it intended to protect the young students.
 
  In a twist in the polarised and politicised Kathua case, some witnesses whose statements form the basis of the chargesheet against the accused complained to the court that they were tortured by J&K police and the apex court agreed to grant them an urgent hearing. 
 
 On May 7, the SC had shifted trial in the case relating to gang rape and murder of an eight-year-old girl to Pathankot in Punjab and had ordered day-to-day in-camera proceedings while asserting that it would continue to monitor the trial.
 
 
