It’s that time of the year when final year students spend the last few days at their college — with their friends and teachers in their favourite hangout spots. With just a few days to go for their exams to wrap up, it’s a bittersweet moment for students, who will walk the college halls for the last time. Saying goodbyes is always hard, but what excites these students are the endless opportunities that await them beyond their college premises. We spoke to a few final year students about their last days in the college, their most favourite memory and what they will miss the most…

 
 
 
 I will not miss studying, but will most definitely miss the college as a whole; the freedom it gave me to be what I wanted. That has become a part of me now and it has made me flexible in several ways. Every semester, our classes were shuffled and we got to meet and become friends with new students. That was one of the best things. 
 
 My most favourite memory has to be when I used to give speeches at Toastmasters, a communication and leadership club.
 
 It has to be the basement or the parking lot for two reasons: One, the security guys were more like friends and used to always have a broad smile on their faces whenever I used to come to college. Two, most of my conversations with my friends used to be in the parking lot.
 
 
 
 
 I’m feeling sad and I’m going to miss college for sure. I realise that I won’t have to wake up early every morning to go for classes. Stepping out in the real world is absolutely terrifying. I will miss my friends and will most definitely miss the college campus. I will also miss drinking the orange soda that we get on campus. 
 
  There are many, but one of the most favourite memory is when we had a group dance performance for an assignment. It was in the first year and it was one of the first times that I really got to interact with a lot of my classmates.
 
  There are two places — the canteen and the red benches in the college premises. Those red benches were my most favourite place. I used to sit there every morning and have my gossip sessions with my friends. Those are also the same benches on which I sat and enjoyed my orange soda.
 
 
 
 
  I’m a little sentimental right now. While I’m very happy that I’m done with my academics and look forward to working, I know I’m going to miss my college days, as there’s going to be a drastic change in my life. College life has helped me become independent and I’ve learnt to be myself. I can blend in with people better now, after having interacted with students from diverse backgrounds.
 
 Hanging out with my friends in the canteen. I’ve shared a great rapport with my professors as well. So, we used to sometimes have discussions over a cup of chai in the canteen. Those will go down as some of my most favourite moments in college.
 
 The quadrangle, because it’s so pretty and green. It was always the place where we used to click a lot of pictures. I have those memories in the form of pictures now.
 
 
 
 
  I’m going to miss my college life, the whole college itself and of course, my friends. I will also miss the college stage the most because that is the place where I got my confidence from. Since I did my pre-university in the same college, I’ve been in this college for five years now and will miss every moment of it.
 
 It has to be the time when I won the student body elections. 
 
 The PU drive. It’s a driveway where we were allowed to sit. It was basically a place where we would chill. I believe that the driveway inspires you to do better; it gives this positive energy. 
 
 
 
 
  My UG days have come to an end. Each day, I used to wake up to a 7 o’clock alarm thinking about how to deal with my lectures, assignments, keeping up my attendance and now I realise, I no longer have to rush to college and be there by 9 sharp. This makes me both happy and sad. I am going to miss my friends, the college fests, emceeing and working late.
 
  Being called a ‘first year’ by a junior in my final year. I think that’s because of my height and my childish behaviour.
 
  The stage, where I was given the chance to anchor for many events. Also, the amphitheatre right by the ATM, where you can see the entire college hustling and bustling. 
 
 
 
 
 It’s bittersweet since I’m about to finish college. I feel sad because I don’t know when I’ll come visit the college again. But at the same time, I’m happy that I’m done because post-graduation can be a little stressful. I’m glad that I got to learn so much. I got to do research work while I was here and I’m proud to say that I have done research work that I can call my own. I’ll miss hanging out with my friends as well. 
 
 It would be the Ethnic Day in college. It was so colourful and bright.
 
 The canteen, where I’ve had endless conversations with my friends.
 
 
 
 
 Out of the many, I will miss attending the committee and batch meetings, which used to take place late at night. Those two years were instrumental in shaping my career and have made me the confident person I am today.
 
 My best memory dates back to November 30, 2016, when we had a popular talent hunt competition in our campus. I was given the opportunity to interview choreographer and actress  . I still like to watch the clipping on repeat mode on our college’s   channel.
 
 The campus lawn used to be one of my favourite spots, as I used to come here for a stroll in the evening all by myself and find solitude amid the chaos and rigorous schedules. Over the last two years, I was also a part of many photo-shoot sessions with my batch mates for every event that we have had on our campus.
 
 
 
 
 I will miss the Fest Room. I belonged to the management fest team and I spent most of my time with the team, organising events in the college. 
 
 Sitting in college, working and slogging while organising events. While doing so, we also used to order food and would have these crazy chats and lot of fun. 
 
 It has to be the Fest Room because I have a lot of memories there. There was immense learning and being a part of that team increased my confidence. The amount of time spent in that room was so much, that it has changed me as a person.
 
