CHENNAI: It has been a month since   issued an order allowing airlines to have Wi-Fi inside planes for passengers to access internet, but airlines are not planning to introduce the facility on domestic and international routes any soon. 

 British Airways,  , Etihad and Emirates, which offer the service, on other routes are yet to decide on deploying Wi-Fi-equipped planes on the Chennai route while domestic carriers find it enviable as they feel that it will be too expensive for passengers for a two hours flight. Airlines have to spend to install Wi-Fi on planes.  , Scoot and AirAsia which connect Chennai with South East Asian destinations too have not announced their intention to open the service for its passengers on India routes. 
 
 An official of Vistara Airlines said “It may become a competitive necessity. We may assess demand and will consider it but the cost is high in domestic flights. People may not pay Rs 200 or more for internet on a two-hour flight.” 
 
 Sources said that “Foreign airlines have deployed their Wi-Fi equipped aircraft on routes that have a lot of business travellers. 
 
 Most of these planes are on the US-Europe routes, Europe-South East Asia routes and Australia routes. These are long distance routes with more than 10 hours of flying time and also have good business.” 
 
 Though there is a recent increase in business travellers between Chennai and the Middle East, the number of business travellers who would invest in Wi-Fi are just four to five per flight. 
 
 A British Airways spokesperson said: “We have started powering some of our long-haul aircraft with high-speed Wi-Fi, with the first three connected aircraft now in service. We will connect 118 aircrafts of long haul routes over the next two years.” However, the airline did not commit on a deadline for offering the service on   flight. 
 
 An official of Flydubai, which has begun to draw more business travellers said, “We have Wi-Fi on some of aircrafts. If that plane is slotted on Chennai route, passengers will be able to use internet on-board,” he added. 
 
 Air Passengers Association of India ( ) national president   said, “Allowing Wi-Fi is a good move. But, hardly a few passengers use them on international flights on short haul routes.”
 
 
