ALAPPUZHA: The high-octane campaigning in   which saw parties flinging barbs at each other came to an end on Saturday. 

 
 Voting will take place on Monday while counting will be held on May 31. The assembly constituency is witnessing a tough triangular contest with no clear favourites. For the  , wresting back the seat from the  , has become a prestige issue and the electoral history of the constituency only boosts their confidence. The electorate had favoured Communists only four times (1957, 1967, 1970 and 2016). From 1991 to 2016, the voters had continuously put their faith on the Congress. 
  
  
 Even in 2006 when the LDF swept the polls, UDF kept its flag flying in Chengannur. Congress candidate P C Vishnunath won by a margin of 5,132 votes, defeating present LDF candidate  . 
 
 In 2011, Vishnunath bettered the record and romped home to a comfortable win against   candidate C S Sujatha by an even bigger margin of 12, 500 votes. However, in the 2016 assembly polls, the voters painted the constituency red sending K K Ramachandran Nair of the CPM to the assembly.. 
 
 This time, around, the UDF has fielded 65-year-old  , a familiar face here with a political career spanning decades during which he donned many roles including that of the president of the Chengannur Agriculture Cooperation Bank, chairman of the Alleppey Cooperative Spinning mills and national vice-president of the Akhila Bharatha Ayyappa Seva Sangham. 
 
 Congress leaders believe Vijayakumar’s links with the NSS and voters’ familiarity with him will help him secure a thumping victory.
 
 The LDF has fielded Saji Cherian, who has been serving as CPM’s district secretary from 2015. Cherian, who is 52-year-old, entered politics as a leader of the SFI in the late 1970’s and climbed up the political ladder quickly, becoming Chengannur taluk committee member and later, party’s Chengannur area secretary. 
 
 However, he was defeated by Congress MLA P C Vishnunath in 2006 in his maiden assembly election. The CPM is hopeful that developmental activities initiated by K K Ramachandran Nair and Cherian’s popularity in the constituency will help the party retain the seat.
 
 The BJP picked up   for the second time in Chengannur soon after it routed CPM in its stronghold Tripura. Pillai, who is also a native of Chengannur, bagged 42,682 votes in the 2016 election. Though the LDF and the UDF leaders have been reiterating that the contest was between them, Pillai’s candidature has been a source of worry for both the fronts.
 
 In the last leg of the electioneering, the three fronts were seen openly playing communal cards realizing that religious, caste and communal undercurrents play a decisive role in the election. Christians account for 26% while the Nair community make up 24% of the voters. Ezhava and Dalit communities account for 19% and 13% of the electorate, respectively.
 
 The NSS has floated the equidistant theory to stay away from both the fronts and if the BJP and the LDF fail to get Nair votes they received in the last assembly polls, the UDF will turn out to be the beneficiary.
 
 The Orthodox Church, which wields influence in the region, has not declared any political stance. However, the LDF camp has been hoping to shore up a major portion of the Christian votes. Though Catholic Church’s KCBC has protested in Chengannur against the LDF government, it does not have a strong presence in the area.
 
 The re-entry of Kerala Congress (M) to the UDF camp has boosted the confidence of the UDF. However, it is learned that the local workers of Kerala Congress (M) are a disgruntled lot. 
 
 As the BJP failed to smooth the ruffled feathers of BDJS, it may have an adverse impact on the vote share of NDA candidate. BDJS workers, who supported the NDA in the last assembly polls, have been keeping away from the campaigning.
 
 Traditionally, the Ezhava community, Dalits and a section of the Nair community have been rooting for the LDF while a chunk of Christians and sections of Nair community backed the UDF. In the last assembly polls, the BJP changed the political landscape and gobbled up a major chunk of UDF votes.
 
 
