CHENNAI: From a small scale manufacturing unit working out of a modest shed in the Ambattur Industrial Estate in 1966 to setting up India’s first engineering unit in China in 2002 that has grown into a Rs250 crore business, the phenomenal growth of   Ltd (SFL) has been a realisation of the dream of  . 

 In his career spanning more than 50 years, the scion of the TVS family built SFL into a global leader in fasteners, powdered metallurgy, and other metal formed products, with manufacturing spread across 27 factories in India, China and UK. While in April, he handed over the executive functions of the company to his daughters, managing director Arathi Krishna and joint managing director Arundathi Krishna, he is not yet done with business choosing to continue as chairman.
 
  
  
 
 Krishna’s journey with the company has been all about vision, belief and hard work. In an era when it was the norm to go for financial and technical collaboration with foreign companies, Krishna relied on indigenous technology. But then the 81-year-old has always been different. Unlike other business leaders, with engineering or finance qualifications, Krishna studied literature and mastered the nuts and bolts of cold forging technology through hands-on experience. The company over the years built a niche market based on quality, value and reliability, being the first to go in for a ISO 9000 certification. This ensured maximum utilisation of equipment bringing along with it handsome returns. 
 
 There were several interesting turning points in the evolution of SFL. I consider a few as important. Krishna’s presidentship of Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) in 1987-88 is one such. I remember him travelling more than 4 lakh kilometres and attending 305 meetings for close to 280 days a year and interacting with policymakers and global leaders. This set the pattern of the punishing schedule of   presidents. With characteristic humour he commented later: "I rushed back to work on completion of the term; I found the company had done even better in my absence!" 
 
 A result of this experience was General Motors (GM) inviting him to transplant its radiator cap manufacturing facilities in Europe and sourcing supplies from SFL. In quick time the production line was established in Padi in 1993. SFL till date is the only supplier for GM, having supplied more than 100 million pieces with zero defects.
 
 The company’s global reputation is evident from the share of exports: Rs1,144 crore of export sales in revenues of Rs3,426 crore. Krishna also has an important role in keeping the $7.2 billion TVS group intact. A couple of decades ago when this unity was threatened by generation gap, it was Krishna who rallied support of the younger scions of   and ensured peace. Today he is the chairman of the parent company TVS & Sons Ltd.
 
 The most articulate of the TVS family members, Krishna, is a delight to listen when he talks about the ‘dharma’ of business: "People come to work in an industry with dreams. They come from poorer sections with the urge to make a future for themselves. They look at the supervisory staff or MD as mentors. If you make them realise their dream they will be thankful and get attached to the company… the workforce will strive to cross the company milestones with a sense of pride. Just imagine, if this can be done for a company, it can also be done for the country!"
 
 (The author is an editor of Industrial Economist)
 
 
