Anything that makes life simpler and better is sought after; like the latest smart phone, the newest laptop or the most efficient fuel. Medical science attempts to constantly research for newer ways to understand the human body so that we can live longer, healthier lives. 

 The primary philosophy of treating a person with type 2   is to prevent its long term complications. Although it is known that any organ system can be damaged by uncontrolled diabetes, the primary mortality and morbidity are macrovascular complications affecting the coronary arterial vasculature. Coronary risk can be stratified and calculated according to several risk calculators. The most important risk factor in this regard is   Cholesterol (LDLC). Until now; levels of low density lipoproteins (LDLs) were considered as the supreme indicators of heart disease. A new test has now been formulated which can identify patients at a risk of   even if their LDL levels are normal. 
 
 According to current AACE/ACE Lipid guideline, persons with diabetes are classified into high risk, very high risk and extreme risk group. The importance of adding “Extreme risk criteria” is the fact that a person with an LDLC level below 70mg/dl can have progressive CAD or an unstable angina. Thus, it is clear that even if all risk factors are brought under control (obviously except the age and family history of premature CAD); the risk of the occurrence of a heart disease cannot be ignored. Hence, lowering LDL is not the ultimate way to reduce CAD. This is particularly true for Indians who are particularly predisposed to developing heart disease, due to sedentary lifestyles and genetic factors. So could we find a new test to identify patients at risk of heart disease even if their LDL levels are normal?
 
 Recently researchers at Mayo Clinic proposed that a substance called ceramides in blood may be the candidate lipid to predict CAD in persons even with normal/low LDLC. Ceramides are lipid compounds with a strong connection to heart disease. In the study involving nearly 500 patients, the researchers estimated the levels of four types of ceramides. These levels were then converted into a 12-point scale, and subjects were grouped into four categories based on their levels of ceramides: low (0-2), intermediate (3-6), moderate (7-9) and high (10-12). They were tracked for a period of 8 years to record incidents of heart attack, stroke, revascularization and cardio vascular (heart disease related events) death. The exciting finding was that for every one point increase in the ceramide levels, the risk of being affected by a heart disease related event rose by 9%. 
 
 The rate of occurrence of events in patients with the highest ceramide levels was nearly twice as much as that in patients with the lowest levels. Among the patients who did not have any pre-existing heart disease, the likelihood of the occurrence of an event was four times greater in patients with the highest ceramide levels, compared to those with the lowest levels. Similar results were found in subjects with normal or low LDL levels (<100 mg/dL). 
 
 These results emphasize the need to identify patients at a risk of heart disease through more robust methods, so that personalized treatment strategies can be devised. Lastly, it is worthwhile to mention that ceramide may be the candidate molecule in this regard in near future. 
 
 
 
 
