CHANDIGARH:   has reported more crimes against women as compared to neighbouring Himachal Pradesh and Punjab, the state government admitted during the third day of the ongoing budget session in the state assembly here on Wednesday.

 
  
 
 According to a statement by chief minister  , who heads the home ministry, 9,196 cases of   — including rape, rape and elopement, molestation, eve teasing, acid attacks and trafficking of women — were reported in the state from April 1, 2017, to January 31 this year.
 
 Khattar gave these figures in reply to a question from Congress MLA Jagbir Singh Malik, who sought information of crimes against women and asked for a comparison with neighbouring Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pardesh.
 
 Referring to the   (NCRB) figures for 2016, the CM said the state witnessed lesser crimes against women as compared to Rajasthan and UP. In 2015-16, 8,999 cases were registered in Haryana. The figure for 2016-17 went up to 9,499. With the figures for this year yet to include the months of February and March, the number of cases is expected to rise higher and crcoss 9,499. 
 
 Haryana inspector general of police (crime against women) Mamta Singh said though the number had gone up, it was not alarming. “These figures are of registration of cases. Most cases have been worked out. It also includes certain cases like dowry harassment, Pre-conception and Pre-natal Diagnostic Techniques (PCPNDT) Act, and immoral trafficking. Hence, the incidence has increased in terms of cases. Stringent laws made by state and convictions have acted as a deterrent as well,” she said.
 
 On the other hand, Congress legislature party (CLP) leader in Haryana, Kiran Choudhry, termed the figures of crimes against women in the state as unfortunate. “You see the population of Punjab and the comparative figures of crimes against women of two states. Crimes against women have earned national shame for Haryana. All this is due to poor planning and government insensitivity,” she said.
 
 
