TRICHY: A professor of   has been found to have created multiple email IDs allegedly to pose as external examiners for his own research scholars. This was revealed during the viva voce of his research scholars a few days before the convocation on February 21 after which the university withheld the PhD. 

 While the vice-chancellor has ordered a detailed inquiry into the incident, seen as a first-of-its-kind in BDU, insiders say a comprehensive inquiry may cause more skeletons to tumble out of the closet. It is mandatory for each PhD thesis to be evaluated by an external examiner, from within and outside the country. But the professor, by creating dubious email IDs, decided to evaluate the PhD work of his own students which was unethical and a criminal offence.
 
 Research guides are not authorised to know as to which external examiner is going to evaluate the PhD thesis of their students. However, they have to give a list of nine external examiners, of whom five should be from outside the country and the rest from within. When TOI spoke to the associate professor of the computer science department, he rejected such claims. 
 
 Stating creating dubious email IDs posing as external examiner was a criminal offence, former president, Association of University Teachers, K Pandiyan said the guide would have known the PhD thesis of his student might not pass muster if it went to an external examiner. Thus he himself decided to pose as an external examiner.
 
 Former head of the department of defence studies of the university, Professor  , said there was rampant corruption in the universities across  , especially in PhDs. Terming it to be a highly skilled kind of corruption, he said “right from writing of PhD thesis, submission, viva voce and sending it to the external examiner, the whole process has been skillfully fabricated.” 
 
 He said weak and not academically skilled scholars resorted to such means but research guides were the real perpetrators. He gave the example of how the PhD of a professor in computer science department from one of the affiliated colleges of   was withdrawn after his thesis was found plagiarized. 
 
 When contacted, vice-chancellor P Manishankar said it would not be appropriate for him to say anything on the matter before the inquiry committee gave its report and the same got approved in the syndicate. 
 
 
