 (HARIDWAR): It is early morning, the sun has just risen over the Ganga and already, hectic activity has commenced at the river bed in Fatwa village in the Bhogpur area, around 20 km from Haridwar city. Rows of workers furiously transport freshly picked river bed material onto waiting tractor trolleys which then speed off with their precious cargo — stones of all sizes which would be deployed in various forms in the construction industry. A spot visit by a TOI team on Saturday revealed how rampant illegal mining is going on in the area unhindered. The modus operandi of the miners is simple — gain permission from the district administration to ‘remove’ excess river bed material from the fields lying near the Ganga (the river changes course often and deposits its material in adjoining fields) and use the pretext for encroaching into the actual river bed. Even though the National Green Tribunal ( ) has imposed a complete ban on mining in the river in Haridwar, the district administration continues to give conditional permission for removal of excess river bed material from farmland near the Ganga. “People take permission to level their farm land lying near the Ganga by removing excess river bed material but they soon start mining from the main river bed. It is illegal but those responsible for keeping a check do not come often, so this is continuing unhindered,”  , a local farmer, told TOI.
 
 
  He added that “even though the levelling process has been continuing for over a month, it is surprising that it still hasn’t got over.” The administration should clearly explain what is the criteria for giving permission for removal of river bed material from private land,” Saini said.
  
  When queried about the matter,  , sub- divisional magistrate (SDM),  , under whose jurisdiction the area lies, said, “All permissions in this regard are okayed by the district headquarters in Haridwar. Our teams check the site from time to time and take strict action if anyone is found conducting illegal mining.”
  
  Incidentally, forest department officials have also given permission for trucks and tractors involved in mining to use a reserve forest route leading to the river. Akash Verma, divisional forest officer of Haridwar forest division, told TOI, “We have restricted the timings when the trucks would be allowed from 10 am to 6 pm only. A forest guard has also been deployed to check their slips while exiting.” When queried about the illegal mining going on, Verma said that “as far as I am aware, only permissible activity is taking place in private land.” “It is not within our jurisdiction to check private land. The revenue and police department can deploy their teams if any complaints have been received.”
  
  Meanwhile, locals allege that around 300 vehicles are crossing the area daily, and government officials are simply passing the buck to each other regarding their checking. When Haridwar’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) was queried on this, he said, “Even though it is the job of the revenue department to stop illegal mining in the district, we are taking extra efforts in this direction. We are checking vehicles loaded with mining material on police check points and have also registered several cases. We will provide police force if revenue department teams go to the spot to take action.”
