KOLKATA: Several top-notch city colleges have rolled out their online admission process instead of waiting for the state board higher secondary resultsm which have been delayed this time. Lady Brabourne College, Surendranath College, Scottish Church College, St Xavier’s College and   are among those who are already offering online admission forms.

 
 “At the moment, only the application forms can be downloaded. We, however, will need to reconsider the last date of accepting applications. Earlier, we were planning to set the last date somewhere in the middle of June. With the West Bengal Higher Secondary results yet to be declared, we will have to push back the last date of form submission. But, the dates that have been fixed by   for publication of merit list, starting the admission process and for commencement of classes can’t be changed,” said a college principal.
 
 
  
 
 “This will ease the last moment rush immediately after the HS results are declared by  . So we decided to start the process early,” added the principal.
 
 According to some, a large number of   and ISC students consider to enrol in Kolkata colleges. “We have to give them a scope to apply instead of giving them an opportunity to look at other states for college admissions. Once the load decreases, WBHSC students will get more space to apply,” explained a senior teacher of political science.
 
 Surendranath College principal Indranil Kar, however, gave assurance to WBHSC-affiliated school students. “We will give adequate time to WBHSC students to apply and we shall not close the form submission process any time soon. Hence, students need not worry as they will get adequate time to fill up their choices without panicking about the last dates.”
 
 Classes in colleges under Calcutta University is scheduled to start from the first week of July this year as it has been brought forward by 15 days. “On the other, colleges that will wait till the publication of results by the West Bengal Higher Secondary Council to start the online form filling process will come under tremendous pressure to publish merit list within June 18. Hence, it is always better to keep the job ahead,” said the principal of a south Kolkata college.
 
 According to a college teacher, there’s no reason to publish results of HS after  . “It’s purely because of an age-old tradition. On the contrary, HS results should be published quickly as it is directly related to admission in colleges,” he reasoned.
 
 Sources in CU said that if necessary, the university will give out a diktat to keep the form submission process open to a certain date to avert any possibility of problems for state board candidates.
 
