AGARTALA: The differences between   and IPFT, partners in the state's ruling alliance, have taken an even uglier turn after the announcement of the names of nominated   (BAC) chairmen under the   (ADC).   has reportedly demanded that at least 60% posts of BAC chairmen and chairmen of corporations related to tribal affairs have to be given to the party, whereas BJP has reportedly suggested offering posts according to credentials of the aspirants. 

 On Monday, IPFT workers attacked Champahowar police station of Khowai district and gheraoed the BDO office in Lefunga of West Tripura after the announcement of the names. Similar reports have been received from Killa of Gomati and Gandacherra of Dhalai district. 
 
 Chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb urged IPFT workers and leaders to be democratic and stop vandalism. "I appeal to the leaders and workers of the party to allow the government to function properly and continue the development of the people. I smell some conspiracy by vested quarters behind such incidents to malign the government. Police has been asked to investigate the matter," Deb said.
 
 Senior tribal leader and Lok Sabha MP   said on Monday, "The ongoing development works, functioning of health schemes, social welfare projects and rural development project works have collapsed after the new government assumed power. Meanwhile, there has been large scale resignation of elected members of all elected bodies, including panchayats and BACs following threats and intimidation by BJP cadres. As a result, the rural economy has been hit badly but the state government has not taken any effective step yet." More than 2000 BAC members, mostly belonging to CPM, have resigned since the election, according to reports.
 
 Chaudhury added that the fight between BJP and IPFT has been gradually worsening in almost all areas of the state. More than 200 party workers have been injured in political violence, many CPM offices have been forcefully taken over, BJP workers have been attacked and the law and order situation is worse than ever, he said.
 
 IPFT has resorted to demonstrations in ADC blocks demanding the posts of BAC chairmen but BJP insiders said this is being seen as 'pressure politics' by IPFT, something which will help the opposition gain ground here.
 
 
