NEW DELHI: Despite defeat in  's opening match of the 11th season of the   on Sunday,   believes that what he has seen in pre-tournament practice and in the loss to   indicates that the franchise have a very good balance. 

 
 
 
 
 At Eden Gardens, RCB made 176/7 in 20 overs and were blindsided by  's 19-ball 50 before KKR's middle order completed a successful chase. De Villiers, who made an energetic 44 from 23 balls before falling to the part-time spin of Nitish Rana, who then bowled   off the next delivery, acknowledged in today's column in TOI that RCB were very disappointed with their performance but spelled out his reasons for believing that IPL 11 will be a turnaround for a franchise that has never won the title. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 "  pulled me to one side after Sunday's opening defeat against KKR at Eden Gardens. The RCB coach was disappointed with the result, but he wanted me to know he had seen plenty of positives in our performance and he felt optimistic about our prospects," wrote the 34-year-old. "Dan is a coach who says what he means and means what he says. I agree with him.
 
 "We understand Virat and I should not have been dismissed in successive balls when we appeared to be going well and when one of us really needed to carry on and get to 70 or 80, and we also realise we needed to find a way of preventing Sunil Narine from getting KKR off to yet another flyer. But what's done is done and, as Dan said, there were upsides."
 
 In de Villiers' view, three aspects led him to believe in a very good season ahead for RCB - one, the vibe within the squad; two, the environment that has been fostered by the coaching staff; and third, the all-round balance of a new-look team. 
 
 "There is a genuine buzz around the 2018 RCB squad that I didn't hear last season. The team bus was quiet on the drive back to the hotel after the game. We know we paid a heavy price for our mistakes in Kolkata, but we were playing against a powerful and well-balanced KKR team with players in form, and we stayed in the fight," wrote de Villiers, who is RCB's third-highest run-getter with 2877 from 94 innings. 
 
 "We are being well coached and managed. In cricket, warm-ups are usually run by a fitness instructor but, at RCB this year, each player is allowed to plan his own warm-up; he can have a hit in the nets, have a stretch, do some fielding, whatever. The coaches are around to help each of us do exactly what we want to do. It's a first, and I love it," he noted. 
 
 Finally, the South African stressed that the general opinion of RCB will not apply to IPL 11. 
 
 "In recent seasons, the experts have said we are unbalanced, that we are fine when our top four fire but that we lack the bowling strength to compete consistently and challenge for the title," wrote de Villiers. "Well, I saw enough in Kolkata to say this will not be true in 2018. Our bowlers performed with skill and heart all the way through their innings and impressed me. We have real energy and variety in our attack, and there are strong options on the bench, so I am sure it's only a matter of time before their collective talent starts to shine through."
 
 RCB next play Kings XI Punjab at home on Friday.
 
 
