COIMBATORE: Towards the end of Minerva Punjab’s hour-long practice session at the Nehru Stadium here on Thursday, the eve of their crucial I-League clash against Chennai City FC, team owner Ranjit Bajaj gave goalkeeper Kiran Chemjong the task of saving a spot-kick in their simulated penalty exercise. The goalkeeper didn’t disappoint as he thwarted the first attempt itself and the players celebrated as if they have won a tough away match.

 
 Coach  , who was watching the action from the sidelines, had a smirk on his face. “This spirit of togetherness is what makes our team. The boys enjoy each other’s success and that is key to our consistency,” Singh told TOI after the practice session.
 
 At this time last year,   were languishing at the bottom of the points table. A year on, they are fighting for the title. They have performed consistently and are sitting pretty at the top with 32 points from 16 matches, winning 10 games, drawing twice and losing four. Incidentally, two of their defeats came recently against   and Gokulam Kerala before they got their title aspirations back on track with a win over Aizawl FC in their last match.
 
 Khogen identified mental fatigue as the cause for the losses. It was then that the Minerva management took help of a sports psychologist and yoga trainer to free the players’ minds of any external pressure.
 
 “I could see that the shoulders of my players drooped after the loss against East Bengal. The pressure of winning the title was bogging them down and they were mentally tired. And we lost against Gokulam too. So we decided to have a session with a psychologist and it gave us immediate results. The players have understood that 90 per cent of football at this stage is about staying mentally strong. They are absolutely relaxed now,” Khogen said.
 
 While the players now have individual mental exercises, their physical fitness too is commendable. The players show the same intensity throughout the 90 minutes and have scored 10 goals in the second half, out of which six came after the 80th-minute mark. What has also helped the side is the familiarity between players. The likes of midfielders Gagandeep Bali, Sukhdev Singh, and left-back Abhishek Ambekar are products of the club’s academy.
 
 “We play direct football and we depend on a lot of long balls. We try to press high too as well as hold the opposition down till 60-70 minutes, and then make our move to score goals. In order to do that our players need to be fit so that they can move in unison,” Minerva coach explained.
 
 Another aspect which clicked is the performance of Minerva’s foreigners. Bhutan’s Chencho, who scored six goals, and Ghana’s William Opoku (four goals) have proved to be effective upfront while defender Eric Dano of Ivory Coast has been solid. Singh said stars like Chencho, who is called   back home, has fitted seamlessly in the side. “There is no star culture in our squad. Chencho wants to prove himself and is hungry for success. His hunger has rubbed on to other players. So the team is tied together and we want to win the title at any cost,” said Khogen.
 
