Trichy: The traffic police in the city are yet to rein in goods vehicles which flout motor vehicle rules by transporting construction materials protruding out of the vehicle in an unsafe manner. 

 It is a common sight for Trichiites to spot not only goods carriers with materials — mostly metal rods, wooden poles and even metal sheets — projecting out of the vehicle, but also unlawful motorised fish carts. Despite admitting that unlawful carts are running on the city roads, carrying protruding goods, little is being done by the city police either to penalise the offenders or impound the vehicles to make the roads safer.
 
 If motorised fish carts are danger on the move as they do not even have tail lights or reflectors, goods vehicles that carry protruding rods are dangerous for vehicles trailing them. Sources in the traffic police said that such goods carriers with projecting elements can be prosecuted under section 190(2) of the Motor Vehicles Act 1988, and a penalty up to Rs 2,500 charged.
 
 Though such violations occur right in front of the city police, the offenders go unnoticed and unpunished. “The city police fail to act against violations committed by load vehicles which ply with protruding rods. Police consider only helmetless ride as a grievous offence and fail to concentrate on bringing down other violations that are very serious,” said H  , resident of E Pudur.
 
 Sensing the danger in making, Trichy-based Air, Rail, and   had in 2016 made an appeal to the state government and district administration to insist on police personnel in preventing protruding materials to be transported in load vehicles. 
 
 A few cases were booked by the traffic police in   but the punishments and drive did not sustain over the months. 
 
 When contacted, sources in the traffic police claimed that such violations are being booked by the city police frequently. “We will increase the surveillance to penalise the goods carriers plying on the roads with protruding materials,” a source in the traffic police said. 
 
 Except for sporadic cases booked, neither the district administration nor the city police have managed to suggest a concrete solution. 
 
 
