MAUR MANDI(Bathinda): A year after a powerful blast took away seven lives, including five children, kin of the victims are still nursing their wounds. Apart from losing their dear ones in the terror attack on January 31, 2017, just four days ahead of the elections to the state assembly, the attitude of the authorities gives them more pain.

 Four of the six families residing in the same lane in the town, where the blast occurred, are angry over unkept promises. They rue that the state government had promised jobs to one member of a family after the blast, which has been rejected now on the grounds that the families were not dependent on the children killed in the blast. Visits to local SDM and Bathinda DC offices have failed to provide any solace and have left the families disillusioned. Even the only family which lost its bread winner has failed to get the job and it is only one family which has got a class IV job. 
 
 Minutes after   candidate Harminder Singh Jassi ended his election meeting near the   on the truck union road, a powerful IED blast took place in a   car parked nearby. Another detonator, in a pressure cooker, however, failed to blast. Jassi’s office manager   Pali (41), rag-picker   (40), his daughter Barkha (12), Japsimran Singh (15), Ripandeep Singh (10) and Sourav Singla (13) died in the blast. The severely injured Ankush Singla (13) succumbed to injuries on March 31 after battling for life for two months in a Ludhiana hospital. The four kids were playing in the street where the blast occurred. 
 
 Khushdeep Singh, who runs an automobile spare parts shop opposite Vishavkarma Bhawan, says, “I was sitting at the shop when the powerful blast took place. Many people with fire balls falling on them started running for shelter. I started helping the people in dousing fire when a badly burnt boy called me, ‘Papa, I am Japi’. I forgot everything and put a blanket over him and got him to a hospital in Bathinda, from where we were referred to Ludhiana. Japsimran, studying in class IX at Police Public School, Mansa, later succumbed to his injuries. With that started our tale of woes as whenever we approached the authorities for upkeep of promises of jobs and compensation, we were humiliated at government offices and we lost all hopes of justice. We do not need anything from the government now,” he says angrily.
 
 All bereaved families are unhappy with the police, which has failed miserably to solve the case even after a year, and say they want to know who killed their sons.
 
 The tragedy of the family of Ripandeep, Khushdeep’s neighbour, is more pronounced. Ripandeep, who was studying in Class IV at Bachpan Public School and was killed in the blast, had lost his father Kala Singh, a sepoy in the Army, when he was born. Ripandeep was brought up by his grandmother Surjit Kaur. “After Ripandeep, we have lost everything. What job? The authorities are not even ready to listen to us and we feel humiliated when we go begging for the promised job,” says 68-year-old Surjit.
 
 Four homes apart, Dera Sacha Sauda follower Hem Raj is at pains to describe the loss of grandson Ankush Singla, then studying in Class IX in Punjab Public School, Mansa. “My daughter-in-law stopped going to office the day we lost Ankush. She was a computer operator in the SDM office on contract basis and instead of getting the promised job she has lost the one she already had. We do not need the job but definitely want a few words of sympathy,” he says.
 
 Shashi Bala, another unfortunate mother who lost his son Sourav, is so disillusioned that she does not want to talk to anyone who comes inquiring about her son. Sourav was studying in Class VIII at DAV School. “We do not want to discuss our miseries. Please leave us alone. We do not want anything but only privacy as in the last one year we feel pained to discuss our miseries and the authorities have badly treated us,” she says with anger writ large on her face.
 
 “It seems our street has forgotten happiness after losing four residents. The authorities never paid heed to out miseries,” says Khushdeep.
 
 Safai karamchari Neetu Ram, whose brother Ashok Kumar, along with his daughter Barkha, was killed in the blast is not angry with the government as Ashok’s wife Santosh Kumari has got a job, apart from compensation. Accompanied by Ashok’ younger daughter Manisha, Neetu said, “Though we are pained to lose Ashok and his elder daughter, the government has compensated us with a job to Ashok’ wife and aid to the bereaved family.” 
 
 Box: ‘Should have died too’
 
 Jaskaran Singh (28), a survivor of the blast, said he was aghast at the treatment meted out to him and felt that it would have been better if he had died too. He was badly burnt and laid there without clothes in the chilling cold. The hot months of June and July were unbearable for him. Lying on a cot at his Maur Kalan village residence, Jaskaran is critical of politicians and the bureaucracy. He said, “I had gone to the rally as a Congress worker but nobody listened to us after the blast. After two months I was discharged from a Ludhiana hospital without complete treatment. We had to spend Rs 5 lakh on further treatment in the last 10 months by taking loans.” 
 
 Bathinda deputy commissioner Dirava Lakra said though the state government had promised jobs to the family members of those killed but some technical issues cropped up as the families were not dependent on their minor children killed in the attack. But I have written to the state government to relax the norms. The wife of Harpal Singh Pali could not clear the mandatory exam to get a class C job and another chance had been given to her to clear the exam so that she could be provided with a job, whereas the wife of rag-picker Ashok Kumar had been given a job. He denied charges of humiliation meted out to families at government offices.
 
 
