LUDHIANA: A fire broke out in a plywood factory on   in   early on Sunday morning. A huge amount of plywood burnt to ashes. However, the exact reasons behind fire eruption are yet to be ascertained. The roof of the factory, which was made of cemented sheets, collapsed due to the intensity of fire. However, no casualty or injury to anybody was reported since the factory was closed at the time of the incident. This is the second fire in the city in last three days.

 The fire brigade received a call around 3.55am informing them that a fire has broken out in Radha Plywood. Before their arrival, the owner of factory and some other people were trying to douse the flames using ordinary water pipes. However, that did not work much and the fire had engulfed almost the entire factory unit. A total of seven fire tenders were pressed to service which then started dousing the flames. The black smoke though made it tough for the firemen to control the situation but they made way to enter the factory by sprinkling water on the flames. 
 
 The sub-fire officer Srishti Nath said they controlled the situation by 8.30am and fire tenders were sent back to the fire station. He said they had stationed two fire tenders at the site for few hours just in case the fire recurs. However, he admitted that there were inadequate fire safety arrangements in the factory and the owner did not have the no objection certificate ( ).
 
 Meanwhile another fire broke out in a house in Salem Tabri area at 10.20am, where a short circuit in the water-motor sparked the incident. However, the fire could be brought under control even before the firemen reached the spot. Even as the family members had a narrow escape, they lost some furniture in the fire.
 
  tubewell comes to rescue
 
 With inadequate supply of water at the factory site the fire tenders were refilled from an MC tubewell in Sherpur Chowk. The fire tenders could not be sent back to the fire stations for refilling as the site was far from the city.
 
 Fire again at JM Hosiery
 
 Two fire tenders were sent to JM Hosiery on   again on Sunday as fire erupted from under the debris at the backside of the factory. The fire had erupted in this factory on Friday, but smoke is still oozing out of its debris. Fire officials claimed that they have searched for the missing person in the factory, however, they could not check the debris yet. This is because some portion of the building has already collapsed and in case, a machine is used to lift the debris, the rest of the building may also collapse. The owner has now been told to get the debris checked. 
 
