JAIPUR: The   ( ) of Rajasthan police on Thursday arrested two middlemen and booked six others, including four government officials for their alleged involvement in manipulating the tender of Rs 18 crore for buying floor desks by the integrated child development services (ICDS).

 The alleged malpractices and corruption in awarding tenders to extend benefits to a Maharashtra based firm had come on the radar of ACB in December 2017 itself, following which the tenders were cancelled. “The tenders would have led to an estimated loss of Rs 6 crore to the public exchequer,” officials said.
 
 The searches and raids then began from the house of middleman C K Joshi on Wednesday late night, culminated with the arrest of another middleman Kamaljeet Ranawat, a native of Amravati in Maharashtra. 
 
 The ACB in its FIR has also booked Someshwar Dewda presently posted as assistant director at ICDS, PR Sharma currently posted as joint director at Udyog Bhawan, Smita Sareen then financial advisor at ICDS , Bhagwan Das currently posted at labor department. The ACB has also booked private persons Vishnu Bannwani, proprietor of Tecnho craft, and another private person Bhawani Palawat.
 
 “We had received a complaint that these items were reserved for the Micro Small and Medium Enterprise (MSME) sector by the state government. But a nexus of these private persons and government officials colluded to remove it off the list,” an official said, adding that these items were to be purchased as per the budget announcement to strengthen infrastructure at anganwadi centres to help rural kids get better education.
 
 Soon after the budget announcement, Dewda, Sareen a Ranawat and Banwani decided to profit from the tender process. “The accused decided to award tender to a company of their choice, there was also a reputed company in the fray. But they created dummy companies to ensure that leading company doesn’t not get a fair chance,” said an official, adding that during tender specification, the emphasis was laid solely on plastic part of the sitting desks as it benefited techno craft.
 
 The tender specifications were further manipulated to include a condition in which it was stipulated that bidder must have three mold, and three mold injection machines. It was done to ensure that small scale manufacturers could not apply for tender.
 
 The accused also went to the inspections of a competent bidder’s firm in Maharashtra, “The technical team tasked for the inspection asked manufacture to show production capacity, the manufacture were also given some time for that, but team recorded wrong information to oust the bidder from tender process,” the ACB said.
 
 “The company they were planning to benefit did not even have expertise in sitting desks,” the official said.
 
 The accused were on the radar of ACB since December 2017, the tenders were cancelled in 2018 due to alleged malpractice, “Joshi and Ranawat made many attempts to revert the cancellation orders,” said the official. 
 
 
