GHAZIABAD: The   Authority of India (AAI) has floated a   for building civic infrastructure at Hindon   Force station under the regional connecvtivity scheme. A contractor will be selected through the tender to carry out the infrastructure work at the proposed   airport terminal at the base, officials said.

 Meanwhile, the   administration has sent a report to the state government seeking an approval to procure   from the state housing board and farmers, following which an MoU will be signed expectedly in one week’s time.
 
 “The lease rent draft have been prepared and it has been sent to the AAI for the approval. We hope that very soon MoUs will be signed with the farmers and also with the housing board which also owns a piece of land that would be required for developing the civil infrastructure,” said the district magistrate, Ritu Maheshwari.
 
 Maheshwari, who was recently in Lucknow, said that a report on the revised lease rate has been submitted to the state government. It may be noted that the district administration is having a difficult time convincing some 43 farmers who jointly own 36,000 sq m of land in Sikandarpur village which is earmarked for developing the civic infrastructure for the domestic flight   under RCS from Hindon Air Force station.
 
 The final rate offered by the administration is Rs 200/sqm/year for a period of three years but even that was opposed by farmers who were insisting on a lease rate of Rs 475/sq m.
 
 The total land requirement for the project is 42,000 sq m, of which about 36,000 sq m of land is owned by 43 farmers while the ownership of 7000 sq m of land is with housing board has also agreed on the same lase rate that is being offered to the farmers.
 
 With land issue almost resolved, the administration is now focusing on infrastructure development. The AAI will develop the terminal while the job of developing the approach road leading to the terminal has been handed over to PWD. A stretch of 700m of road between Bhowpura and Sikandarpur will be broadened from 6 metres to 9 metres, while another 60 metres of road leading to the terminal will be developed by PWD.
 
 In addition to these, the electricity department will install five transformers of 100 KvA each in the area. The GMC have been entrusted with the responsibility of installing streetlights on the road leading to the terminal.
 
 
