AHMEDABAD: CID (crime) which is questioning  , the business partner of Shailesh Bhatt and one of the accused in the Bitcoin extortion case, is currently probing the financial transactions that took place in connection with the case before February 11, the day Shailesh Bhatt and Paladiya were abducted and illegally confined by a team of Amreli police. Paladiya’s remand period will end soon.

 “Paladiya was a small fry in the Surat finance market but rose quickly to prominence after he started dealing in cryptocurrency. Cryptocurrencies became a rage in the Diamond City after demonetization, when builders, diamantaires and businessmen were looking for an instrument to park illegal money. At this time, he partnered with Shailesh Bhatt and the duo dealt in Bitcoin,” said an investigator.
 
  Paladiya, who considered Amit Bharadwaj — a cryptocurrency guru who was arrested for a multi-crore fraud — his idol, also ran an exchange on his own, mining ‘Nexa’ coins. The exchange was functional for about six months and many people lost money investing in it. CID has appealed to citizens to come forward if they have lost money in Nexa coins.
 
  
  “Paladiya kept changing his statement and revealed information only after he was confronted with the fact. The digital wallet which contained 142 of the 176   extorted has come to light. We are verifying the transactions of the said account. We don’t rule out the possibility that Paladiya may have more accounts for other cryptocurrencies,” said the investigator, adding that it was Paladiya who converted 11,000 Litecoins given to him by Bhatt into Bitcoins, before the extortion took place.
 
 Officials said they have uncovered multiple layers going beyond the scope of the current case. “We are looking for concrete information on the larger scam that took place over the past two years, including the digital transactions,” said an official.
 
 How the Bitcoins were divided
 
 According to the CID investigation so far, of the 176 Bitcoins extorted at the farmhouse near Dehgam, 34 were sold in Mumbai. According to the deal, 15% was given to police (Rs 1.32 crore) and 7.5% each to Nalin Kotadiya and Ketan Patel (Rs 66 lakh each). The 142 remaining Bitcoins stayed with Paladiya, which he claims to have not used so far.
 
 Of the Rs 1.32 crore, Rs 40 lakh was given to inspector Anant Patel in shoe-boxes, to meet expenses he and the other accused policemen incurred over the case in Ahmedabad. The remaining Rs 90 lakh was with Jagdish Patel, who allegedly sent it to Bhavesh Patel in Ahmedabad through his confidante Dharmendra Pawar. Pawar is still out of range for CID, while they are tracing the Rs 90 lakh trail. CID has so far recovered only Rs 2 lakh from Anant Patel.
 
 Of the Rs 66 lakh allegedly paid to Kotadiya, CID has got a transaction record for Rs 25 lakh, paid to Kotadiya’s nephew through a Surat-based angadia. The investigating agency is yet to track the Rs 66 lakh paid to Ketan Patel. It is suspected that Ketan’s brother, Jatin, has the cash and has left the state or even the country.
 
 
 
 
 One day after ex-MLA Nalin Kotadiya’s issued a press release claiming that he was in Dhari, Amreli and not absconding, CID officials said Kotadiya has not honoured two earlier summons and he will be summoned again. It is suspected that he has left the state and is using only landline phones to communicate. “The incidents mentioned in the letter are already being investigated. If we find evidence, we will surely lodge another complaint. That doesn’t validate the incident under probe here. We have found evidence against Kotadiya and we need to question him,” said a CID official. Officials denied receiving a letter from Piyush Savaliya, who Kotadiya said was extorted out of a large sum, in cryptocurrency, in an earlier case.
 
 
