Mumbai:   ( ) has informed the South African banking regulator of its decision to exit the country, where it has had operations for 21 years. The announcement comes in the wake of a scandal involving the lender’s funding of Indian-origin businessmen accused of being cronies of the Jacob Zuma-led administration.

 In a communication to South African customers, BoB said that it has decided to cease operations in   territory in view of its strategic plan for rationalisation of branches in international markets. “The branch will stop taking new/incremental   and disbursing   with effect from March 1, 2018. Further, it will cease to operate and conduct the business of a bank with effect from March 31, 2018,” the mailer said. 
 
 In response to a TOI query, a BoB spokesperson said that the business of the bank in South Africa is not very significant and the exit will not have any major impact on its financials. He also said that BoB was working with the regulators for an orderly exit.
 
 In a statement issued on Monday, the   (SARB) said that BoB has notified the   of its exit from South Africa. “The registrar, which is part of the SARB, is in discussions with the Bank of Baroda to ensure its orderly withdrawal from South Africa so that no depositor is disadvantaged,” the   said in its statement. 
 
 Earlier in an interview to a news channel, BoB’s chairman P S Jayakumar said that the bank is talking to regulators around the world to shrink its presence in geographies that do not provide a strong business case as it plans to focus on larger markets where it can grow its business.
 
 According to local South African news reports, BoB had violated norms on single-party exposure in its dealing with the Gupta brothers. The brothers are a reference to Ajay, Atul and Rajesh Gupta, originally from Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh, who have set up base in South Africa. There have also been news reports that BoB has facilitated dealings between the Gupta brothers and South Africa’s President Jacob Zuma’s family. BoB had also said that it was fined an equivalent of Rs 5 crore by the South African banking regulator. Following the penalty, BoB informed the stock exchanges that SARB was investigating allegations against the bank and it is actively cooperating and supporting these investigations. “Some of the matters are sub judice, including BoB’s appeal against a fine. Further, many of these allegations are on historical transaction and the bank has since then significantly improved the compliance process and these remediation measures would ensure that   measures are completed,” the bank had said.
 
 
