The last episode of Bigg Boss 11 Weekend Ka Vaar was one of the most entertaining ones but since one of the popular contestants,  , had to bid goodbye, it was bittersweet in a lot of ways.

 At the onset of the episode, Salman wished everyone a happy new year while the contestants sit in the garden area to enjoy their drinks. With just six contestants left one could see the pressure building up. The inmates need to pull up their socks and keep their cards close to themselves if they want to gain an edge over the others. Salman Khan was seen in indulging in some friendly banter to lighten the mood.
 
 The first highlight of the episode was the 'New year resolution' activity wherein each contestant was given a resolution to adhere to by one of the contestants and they had to guess as to who has written it for him/her.
 
 Vikas' note asked him not to be a crybaby and   was suspected to have penned this one but it turned out to be a wrong guess.
 
 Shilpa's note was asked to put herself first and not waste her time caring a lot for others. This one was penned by Vikas. Prior to this one, she had another note, penned by  , in which she was asked not to become a flip.
 
 Akash's resolution was to be more empathetic while Puneesh was asked to drink less in his note.
 
 The next highlight of the episode was the skit, titled ‘Pati, Patni aur Woh’. The host, Salman Khan asked Vikas, Shilpa, and Hina to present a skit. Vikas and Shilpa were asked to essay the role of a married couple and Hina was to slip into Vikas's girlfriend's role. Much to everyone's surprise,  's acting skills overshadowed that of the two actresses and even Salman complimented him on the same.
 
 Next up for the 'Sultani Akhada' task in which a twist was introduced. This time around, the wrestling match was turned into a kabaddi match and instead of two contestants, two teams were seen contesting in the ring. Shilpa and Hina picked their members, Vikas and Akash were part of Hina's team while Luv and Puneesh were part of Shilpa's team. Hina's team won this kabbadi match.
  
  This was followed up by an awards activity. Hina Khan won the Drama Queen award while the Sarv Gyani Sadasya award was won by Vikas. Pagal Premi Jodi was awarded to   and Akash and Luv Tyagi walked away with the Double Dholki award. Akash, was the surprise package, as he got three more awards – most flipped person, most Ladaku awards and most Fizzy contestant in the house.
 
 The episode was concluded on a celebratory note with cake and champagne for the contesting inmates. Keep watching the space for more such updates. 
 
 See pics:
  
  
 
