SHIMLA: Chief minister Jai Ram   has said the state government has set up a target of constructing 600km of new motorable roads, providing cross drainage facilities on 750km road length, metalling and tarring of 1,100km roads, construction of 35 bridges and providing road connectivity to 40 villages during the current financial year. He has directed the officials that all formalities regarding allocation of road and bridge projects should be completed within a stipulated time period so that work could be allocated within 51 days to executing agencies concerned. 

 Thakur said this while presiding over a review meeting of the PWD here on Saturday. He said that e-tendering must be ensured for speeding up the process of allocation of projects. This would not only ensure transparency in allotment of projects, but also expedite the process of awarding the works, he added. The CM has asked the PWD officers to identify black spots during the construction of roads so that possibility of road accidents could be minimized. He said of the 90 black spots identified in the state, 58 had been rectified and work on the remaining black spots was in progress.
 
 He laid emphasis that proper coordination between public works, revenue and forests departments was required for speedy clearance from forests department. He further said that the government would also take up the matter with the Union government to expedite forest clearances so that road connectivity to left-out habitations and villages could be ensured. Thakur said that responsibility of defaulters must be fixed and strict action should be taken against the person. He said that laxity of any kind would not be tolerated and strict action would be taken against defaulters. 
 
 The chief minister said that a target had been fixed to execute 414 works with a total length of 2,400km under the   (PMGSY) with an outlay of Rs 600 crore during the current financial year. He said that on completion 150 habitations would be connected with roads. Similarly, a target has been fixed to complete 209 works under the Rural Infrastructure Development Fund-Nabard, which include 77 works in Shimla zone, 20 in Mandi, 70 in Kangra and four in Hamirpur.
 
 
