THRISSUR: Statistics based on the   data indicate that that the company engaged in toll collection at   would collect a whopping Rs 4,461 crore during the existing contract period. 

 The data received as replies to the RTI queries submitted by   leader Joseph Tajet reveal that the total investment for the four-laning of the national highway stretch from Thrissur to Angamaly and improvement of the road stretch between Angamaly and Edappally was only Rs 725.82 crore.
 
 The user fee collected by the company from February 9, 2012 to January 31, 2018 itself was Rs 539.52 crore, as per the data provided by the project director of the   (NHAI), Palakkad. The monthly toll collection was Rs 2.41 crore in November 2016 and now it has shot up to Rs 10.29 crore. Interestingly the existing agreement is valid up to June 21, 2028.
 
  The NHAI has also given the number of vehicles passing through the toll gate from 2012 to 2018 and the toll collection data of several months. Based on the data V M Chacko, who is the head of the department of statistics at the St Thomas College, here has prepared a statistical model to project the user fee likely to be collected by the toll company when the present agreement expires in 2028.
 
 Chacko said there was a significant increase in the user fee collected at the toll  , and the average monthly increase could be about Rs 3,21,2000.
 
 The NHAI officials in their RTI replies conceded that they have no data on the projected revenue of the firm engaged in toll collection when the agreement expires in 2018. However, they said the company can collect the user fee even though the amount has surpassed several times the investments made for the construction of the road.
 
  Tajet demanded that the government must urgently take steps to review the agreement to ensure that the company would not be permitted to fleece people, even after they collect the invested amount and reasonable profits. 
 
 According to him toll collection had to be stopped on similar grounds in places like Noida, based on court orders.
 
 
