JAISALMER: A group of women are creating awareness about menstrual hygiene among rural women in the remote areas of Barmer. They are not alone, six months ago, Barmer district administration had installed sanitary pad vending machine in more than a dozen girls’ schools in the district, especially in rural areas that till now has benefitted over 4,500 girls.
 
 In rural India, roughly one in two girls still believes that menstruation is a kind of disease. The majority of adolescent girls know very little about menstruation and how to deal with it. Menstrual hygiene leaves much to be desired in rural India, with sanitary pads being largely unavailable. Instead, women and girls are forced to use unhygienic clothes that can lead to infection and even result in death. But things are quite different for some small hamlets in remote rural areas in Barmer. Here, village women have started production and selling of sanitary pads and have branded is as ‘Resham’ with an aim to provide ‘wings of freedom’ to the women who are risking their health. Now it is being planned to expand this sanitary pad vending machine in other schools. 
 
 A group of women with the help of an NGO have started manufacturing sanitary pads by setting up a machine. The group is also running awareness campaign in rural areas for use of sanitary pads. Sanchiyamata Women Self Help Group at   is a 10-member group who with the help of   have set up small machine for making pads. They are able to make 100 pads in a single day day and sell 4 pads for Rs 20. Members of this self help group readily welcomed the idea and promptly attended training and discussions on working model to run this unit.
 
  of the group said, “We conduct campaigns daily to create awareness and also have group meetings and one-to-one meeting with women and explain about hygiene issues. This is giving us positive results and we are hopeful that in future we will see great results.”
 
 Meanwhile, Barmer district collector   taking the initiative of establishing sanitary pad vending machine in many girls’ schools said while visiting schools he got to know that girls during school time the girls face lots of problems during menstruation and to provide relief from this problem he came up with a plan to provide sanitary napkins to school girls and women and installed vending machines in around 18 schools. A packet of three pads is provided to girls for Rs 10 and these vending machine work like ATM.
 
 Nakate said that under Swachh Bharat Mission, vending machines were installed at governement girls’ senior secondary schools and secondary schools at Pachpadra, Baytu, Chauhatan, Dhorimanna, Sindhari, Gadra Road, Ramsar, Sheo, Patodi etc where girls by just pressing a button get a packet of sanitary pads. These are made under government of India enterprise HLL Lifecare Limited after intensive research. Compared to the costly pads available in the market, these pads are very cheap and parallel to other famous pads in the market in terms of quality.
 
 
