NEW DELHI: India will be the global host of of this year’s World Environment Day on June 5. ‘Beat Plastic Pollution’ will be the theme of this year’s event which would drive world-wide efforts to discourage use of hazardous plastic.

 The World Environment Day (WED) 2018 will be celebrated across the country, involving all states and Union Territories. A week-long environmental awareness campaign and pollution mitigation activities are being planned in Delhi and other parts of the country from June 1-5.
 
 A ‘Letter of Intent’ to host the WED in India was signed here on Monday by the Union environment secretary   and head of the   ( )  .
 
 “It is a health issue for ourselves, because when big plastics degrade into small pieces, it gets dissolved into the ocean. These small plastic particles are eaten by fishes which are consumed by humans. Therefore, plastic pollution is a huge environment and health issue,” said Solheim.
 
 India had previously hosted the World Environment Day in 2011. Every year, a different country is chosen as the principal venue for the global celebration of the WED on June 5. 
 
 The Day, a UN Environment-led global event, is celebrated for rededication of national efforts for sustainable development, to bring environmental concerns into the mainstream of the national developmental effort and also to bring people to the forefront of environmental conservation. 
 
 “It is the beginning of the end of plastic menace,” said Union environment minister Harsh Vardhan after the signing ceremony.
 
 The minister announced that the  , headquarters of the environment ministry, will henceforth be a plastic-free zone. “The process of plastic eradication will start now from this building of environment ministry itself”, Vardhan said, noting that he aims to make the ministry a zero-plastic zone. 
 
 He said, “If each and every one of us does at least one green good deed daily towards our Green Social Responsibility, there will be billions of green good deeds daily on the planet.”
 
 According to the UN Environment, “Beat Plastic Pollution”, the theme for World Environment 2018, urges governments, industry, communities, and individuals to come together and explore sustainable alternatives and urgently reduce the production and excessive use of single-use plastic polluting our oceans, damaging marine life and threatening human health.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
