NAGPUR: With   prices consistently rising, the   (NMC) has proposed to hike the   by 25%. The general body will take a final decision at a meeting in June.

 The hike has been proposed for 350 Red buses and will not be applicable for the 25 ethanol-run Green buses. The last revision was made on September 8, 2014.
 
 The transport committee headed by Bunty Kukde has submitted the proposal to mayor Nanda Jichkar who is likely to hold the general body meeting on her return from China.
 
 Kukde told TOI that the hike has been proposed to prevent further losses. “Diesel prices increased to a great extent in the last four years yet we did not increase the fare. But, now, we have no choice,” he said.
 
 In the new proposal, the minimum fare of Rs8 for the first 4km for adults will increase to Rs10 and, Rs5 from Rs4 for children. The maximum fare of Rs58 for 46-50km will increase to Rs72 for adults and Rs36 from Rs29 for children. Revision will be done in the remaining 23 slabs too.
 
 Sources from the committee said the diesel price was Rs66.66 per litre when the fare was last revised. On Tuesday, it was Rs74.35 per litre.
 
 Interestingly, the price of diesel went down to Rs50 per litre in August 2015 but the fares were not reduced.
 
 A month ago, the committee had proposed to increase the Red bus fare from Rs8 to Rs10. The decision was taken to compensate the loss to be incurred for reduction in fare of Green buses by Rs3-4. The fare of Green buses was reduced from April 6 but decision to increase the Red bus fare was dropped.
 
 There will be no revision in Green buses as they run on ethanol. Also, the fare of Green buses has been much higher than Red buses since the time of its launch.
 
 The proposed hike in city bus fare is likely to witness strong objection from the opposition parties.
 
 An official from the committee said operating losses will only increase if the fares are not hiked. “The services incurred a loss of Rs67 crore last year. There is proposal to increase the buses from 375 to 487 and then 536 in current fiscal. The loss can rise to over Rs100 crore. Charges being paid to the bus operators are hiked as per rise in fuel prices, wholesale price index and consumer price index,” he said.
 
 
