BHOPAL: Every time police tighten the noose on traffic rule offenders and conduct checking drives, roadside helmet vendors emerge across the city selling substandard helmets.

 TOI found that most of these poor-quality helmets, often sold on the pavements, are not subjected to any quality checks. The vendors procure these second-rate helmets at cheap rates from citybased suppliers, who get the stock from Delhi.
 
 According to a   (WHO) survey, two-wheeler riders without helmets are 40% more likely to die of a head injury, in case of major accidents. Most of the commuters, it seems, care two hoots about their safety. “I bought helmet to save myself from scorching sun and avoid fine. I frequently forget my helmet at places I visit, so I always buy cheap helmets,” said  , a commuter who was wearing a helmet without the the standard ISI-mark.
 
 When asked whether he was not concerned about his safety, Mishra just did not answer. Several commuters on two-wheelers, who were seen wearing substandard helmets, gave similar answers.   Rai, who lives in Ashoka Garden, sells helmets on Jail Road in front of Veterinary Hospital. “I and my brother sell helmets in the city. We came from   and settled down in  . We came in contact with a helmet seller at Polytechinc Square and started selling helmets. We sell helmets for Rs 150 to Rs 400, depending on the quality of helmet.” The dealer, who supplies helmets, gets them in bulk from New Delhi, said Lakhan, adding whenever police intensify helmet checking across the city, our sales spike. On the quality of helmets he was selling, Lakhan said: “If you want quality, you will have to buy branded ones.”
 
 ASP (Traffic)   said in most of the cases, substandard helmets are just plastic covers over a layer of polystyrene, which does little to protect the rider. Most riders, unfortunately, opt for poor-quality helmets just as a means to avoid a fine, rather than protecting themselves. Visual inspection cannot determine if a helmet meets the prescribed ISI certification.
 
 On whether any action is being taken aginst these vendors selling substandard helmets, Jain said: “We want people to wear helmets for their own safety. At present, our focus is on spreading helmet awareness. Checking the quality of helmets during inspection will be done in next phase, when all riders start wearing helmets.”
 
