BHOPAL: Perhaps feeling they stand a better chance to get a party ticket if   comes to their constituency,   legislators and MPs are lobbying hard for it with the state government. 

 In Bundelkhand, Union ministers Uma Bharti and Virendra Kumar Khatik have urged the government to open a medical college in Chhatarpur and Tikamgarh, respectively. MLAs from Satna, Damoh and Panna, too, have demanded medical institute to help generate employment and provide better healthcare in their respective regions. Moreover, the announcement by Union finance minister Arun Jaitley to upgrade district hospitals by 2021-22 has come as a shot in arm for ticketseekers. Finance minister Jayant Malaiya, too, made an important announcement in the budget about healthcare. “The new medical colleges will be opened in Ratlam, Vidisha, Shivpuri, Chhindwara, Shahdol, Khandwa and Datia with a provision of Rs 5,000 crore,” finance minister said raising the budget from Rs 528 crore to Rs 5,000 crore.
 
 “The government has initially decided to open seven medical colleges and would try to add six more with the help of central funding. We know many MLAs are vying for medical college in their home district, but it would take some more time to begin the process,” said Malaiya.
 
 In Panna, Satna, Chhatarpur, Tikamgarh and Damoh, political parties have launched public campaigns to get nod from the state and the Centre. Minister Kusum Mehdele, who comes from Panna district, is demanding a medical college for her area. In Damoh, supporters of finance minister Malaiya are going all out to get a medical college approved in their respective constituencies. People in Chhatarpur have launched signature campaign under the leadership of Uma Bharti, whereas Union minister Virendra Kumar has urged his own government at the Centre to approve a medical college in Tikamgarh before Lok Sabha elections in 2019.
 
 “A week ago, I had written a letter to the Union health minister to open a medical college in Tikamgarh. People have launched a signature campaign demanding the college and have resorted to protest rallies and agitation,” said Virendra Kumar. 
 
 “The government announced medical colleges in seven new places. In   district, where the medical college was opened last year, infrastructure is poor. Nobody is willing to get treatment in these colleges and hospitals due to poor facilities and shortage of staff,” said Leader of Opposition (LoP) Ajay Singh. 
 
 
