MUMBAI: Last year, 146 cases of ‘fatka robberies’, where stick-wielding men perched on signal poles hit commuters standing on the footboard of running trains, were reported on the city’s suburban railway network. Of these, 62% were recorded on the Western line with the Mahim-Bandra belt being the deadliest. 

 Having identified the “black spots” and posted armed guards along some, the   (GRP) has now asked the railways to make formal announc-ements on trains, asking commuters not to stand at the door with a cellphone glued to their ear. On Wednesday, 23-year-old   lost some of her fingers and a portion of her right foot after being struck by ajuvenile robber and falling off a CST-bound train near Sandhurst Road. 
 
 “We have been tracking patterns of fatka crimes and gangs and have managed to reduce the number of such incidents. We have observed that these robbers operate in groups of twos or threes, are young, and take the cover of signal poles. It is impossible to post policemen across the entire railway network, even if we double our manpower, as it is massive. Fatka robberies can only be controlled through infrastructural changes. The solution is to construct boundary walls and enclose the tracks, besides bringing in rakes with automatic closing doors,” said asenior GRP official. 
 
 
  
 
 Forty-two ‘fatka’ robberies were recorded in the MahimBandra belt, followed by 40 in the Chinchpokli-Sion belt last year. The Bandra-Khar belt and Santa Cruz-Vile Parle belt also had more than a dozen cases each. To curb these crimes, the GRP has now resorted to flashing lights along the tracks and in bushes to scare the robbers. “A police vehicle is parked on the bridge over   creek. This acts as a deterrent for fatka gangs. Plain-clothes policemen use flashlights as they patrol the tracks between Bandra and Mahim. 
 
 Three black spots have been identified near Bandra creek alone and armed guards have been posted there,” said senior inspector Sunil Jadhav, Bandra GRP. But the fencing in this region is incomplete. “We had written to the Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) about making announcements on running trains, especially between   and Mahim stations on WR, asking commuters not to stand at the door with their cellphones. This will considerably reduce the number of fatka crimes. In the wake of the attack on Singh at Sandhurst Road, we are writing again to the DRM to make these announcements through motormen,” said DCP (GRP) Purushottam Karad.
 
