CHANDIGARH: Operation cell of UT police have busted a gang by arresting four of its members while they were planning to loot a liquor vend in   area on Wednesday night. All the accused are residents of Sector 17, Panchkula. However, one accused managed to flee from spot. Police produced them in a local court and obtained their two-day police remand.

 While addressing the media persons at operation cell in Sector 26, superintendent of police (SP)   said the accused have been identified as Chand Mohammad (19), Mohammad Talib, alias Bhasan (21), Arif alias Kakkar (19) and   (24). 
 
 All four are residents of New Indira Colony, Budanpur, Sector 17, Panchkula. During their serach, police recovered two motorcycles, one auto- rickshaw, one packet red chilli powder, four monkey caps, one long knife, baseball bat and iron rods from the possession of accused. With their arrest, police claimed that four cases of santchings, one case of robbery and around 40 cases of unreported robberies and snatchings have been solved.
 
 SP said the gang mostly targeted pedestrians and cyclists after 12am. While three of them would stop their target on the pretext of asking bidis, the others would overpower the target and threaten him with a knife after which the target would give up their valubales. Later, Chand Mohammad would reach at the crime site in his auto and pretending to help the targetted person, would scare them with the possibility of getting killed by the miscreants. 
 
 SP said police received a tip-off stating that the accused were planning to loot a liquor vend at the road near   workshop near   village. On this information, a police team from operation cell laid a trap near Raipur Kalan village at around 10pm on Wednesday. Soon, when two accused came in an autorickshaw and were joined in by two more accused later, the police team pounced on them and nabbed four of the accused while one managed to flee from spot.
 
 During interrogation, the accused revealed that they were planning to loot a liquor vend of Manimajra at around 12am. Police told that the gang was active in Chandigarh, Zirakpur and Panchkula during late night hours. Police told that accused are alcoholics and committed crimes to meet their addiction related needs. 
 
 Police told one of the accused Mohammad Talib was booked for robbery when he was a juvenile. Panchkula and Mohali police have also been informed about their arrest. Both accused were produced in the court and sent in police remand till April 14.
 
 
