ARARIA: The   temperature rose a notch high here after Jokihat MLA Sarfaraz Alam, who quit JD (U) and joined RJD on Saturday, hinted at contesting the   parliamentary seat which had fallen vacant after his father Taslimuddin’s death.

 The Election Commission had announced byelection to the parliamentary seat on Friday.
 
 Alam is also expected to get sympathy votes after the death of his father. RJD chief Lalu Yadav had even assured Alam of providing a ticket from the party for Araria seat, if his mother gave her nod to his candidature, when he came here after Taslimuddin’s death. Out of the total 14 elections held for   constituency, Alam has won four times, while Taslimuddin won five times. Political observers said it would be difficult for him to garner support of M-Y voters as his father used to get.
 
 As of BJP, it seems a divided house as far as finalising a candidate is concerned. In 2014, Taslimuddin had got around 42% votes, while   sitting MP Pradip Kumar Singh secured 26% votes and JD(U) candidate Vijay Mandal bagged about 22% votes.
 
 Incidentally, the BJP candidate lost the Araria seat due to JD(U)’s Vijay Mandal, who played an instrumental role in dividing the EBC votes. Besides, votes of BJP and that of JD (U) combined came to 48%, which was 4% higher than the votes polled by RJD.
 
 The JD (U) has already announced that it will not field any candidate in the upcoming bypoll, which puts BJP is a safer position as there is no risk of division of EBC votes.
 
  (JAP), is also likely to field its candidate from Araria in order to make its presence feel, which may lead to division in RJD’s vote bank. Political observers, however, claimed that much depends on the candidate fielded by the BJP, whether it gives a new face or allows its old candidate to continue. Victor Yadav’s name has been recommended who holds some influence in Raniganj and Narpatganj assembly constituencies.
 
 Sources said ground-level workers of various parties are already canvassing in remote villages keeping the short period left for campaigning after finalisation of the name of the candidates.
 
 
