Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Wednesday disposed of the PIL challenging extremely popular ‘Happy Streets’ event organized in 2015 by TOI and MT on Sundays on the stretch between Times Square and Alankar Talkies.

 The petitioners — Prabodh Ukey, Chandrashekhar Bisen, Vikram Santoshwar, and Pramod Thool — contended that the respondents violated various HC orders of not blocking footpaths and roads even for religious purposes. While admitting the plea for final hearing on April 17, 2015, the court had granted an interim injunction against the event till further orders.
 
 Earlier, additional government pleader Shishir Ashirgade informed that petitioners filed a civil application in 2015 for seeking permission to file additional documents, but no one appeared from their side.
 
 NMC counsel Sudhir Puranik then explained that ‘Happy Streets’ was a one-time programme, but due to HC’s stay it couldn’t be completed and therefore, the petitioners’ grievance is rendered infructuous.
 
 While accepting his statements, a division bench comprising justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Swapna Joshi granted liberty to the petitioners to approach again if cause of action arises. “Also keeping all rival contentions open, we dispose of the PIL and civil application,” they said.
 
 While staying the popular event, then bench of justices Dharmadhikari and Sunil Shukre observed that if public streets are allowed for such events, there has to be legal sanction and uniform policy, but they found none.
 
 Quoting similar event to be organized by another media company at Telangkhedi Lake, the judges added that such programmes where large number of people participated, shouldn’t be held on streets.
 
 The respondents earlier contended that roads were blocked for religious events like shobhayatra and even traffic before chief minister’s residence at Ramgiri was kept closed for two hours during morning for joggers. They claimed that the petition was filed at the behest of rival organizations due to overwhelming popularity of the event.
 
 
