BHOPAL: Buoyed by the availability of good infrastructure in  , secretary of Indian Olympic Association (IOA) Rajiv Mehta felt that the state can host   Games in 2024. He was in the city on Monday to attend the inaugural function of 28th national canoe sprint championship at  . Chief guest at the function sports minister Yashodhrara Raje Scindia hailed Mehta for praising the infrastructure of Madhya Pradesh.

 Talking to media, Mehta said that Madhya Pradesh has developed excellent infrastructure. “I have seen some of the venues and found them praiseworthy. The National Games have already been allotted to different states till 2022. After that 2024 is available for the state and it can bid for that,” said Mehta. He said that he will recommend the committee to consider MP as a good option to host National Games. For hosting the National Games respective states have to bid. AGM of IOA is the deciding authority to allot the games. After a lot of delay, Sports Authority of Goa finalised the dates of the 36th National Games to be held this year from November 4 to 17.
 
 Haling the national events in MP, Scindia said, “Hosting national event of any game is a big thing. Officials and players from across the country participate in such an event. MP has been hosting such games and it has become a favourite state for hosting national events of different games.” Scindia inaugurated the championship. Goa minister of housing Jayesh Salgaonkar was also present on the occasion.
 
 Fielding the biggest contingent, Madhya Pradesh is all set to defend the overall championship trophy in the national canoe sprint. MP can create history if they win the overall championship trophy as it will be their consecutive seventh title. IKCA’s secretary BS Kushwah and others also attended the inaugural function. This is the ninth time   is hosting the national canoe championship. Organizing secretary Prashant Kushwaha said teams of both junior and senior categories would contest in the championship.
 
 Around 27 states are participating in the championship.MP contingent, comprising 77 players, is the largest among the participating teams. Events of K-1, K-2, K-4, C-1, C-2 and C-4 categories would be organised in the weeklong championship.
 
