BHOPAL: A controversy has erupted after three medical colleges in the state issued interview calls to nine dentists for faculty posts although they don’t have experience of teaching at a medical college.

 The nine dentists do not meet minimum eligibility for recruitment as faculty to the post of professors, says   (AIDRA), alleging that the shortlist “depicts gross irregularities”. It called on the state government to take “corrective action”.
 
 A delegation of the association met the chief secretary and apprised him of the anomaly. The chief secretary assured them that there will be no irregularity. in appointments. Recruitment for government medical colleges is on and it includes vacancies in government medical colleges at Shahdol, Sagar and Chhindwara. 
 
 “Some of the dental candidates who have been shortlisted have shown their experience at dental colleges, which does not meet MCI norms for being a faculty in a medical college. Experience of teaching in a medical college is must, as per MCI norms,” said a senior consultant, seeking anonymity. Seven candidates mostly with teaching experience in private dental colleges, with ‘zero experience’ of teaching in a medical college, have been shortlisted for selection to dentistry department in three government-run medical colleges. Twenty-one posts are for associate professor, assistant professor and professor in seven new medical colleges. Seven junior residents and two senior residents’ posts have been advertised. Vacant seats in dentistry departments in existing medical colleges is about 10.
 
 Reiterating that MCI rules would be followed, Sagar medical college, dean   said, “Scrutiny committee has taken notice and in earlier selections too, only candidate with requisite medical college experience were selected.” 
 
 Chhindwara medical college, dean Dr   said, “Getting the right candidates that meet MCI norms is a priority during the selection process.” When contacted, senior DME official did not comment on reasons for shortlisting the ineligible candidates.
 
 In a letter to the state chief secretary, AIDRA alleged that a mere perusal of the list will showcase the non-cognizance to the statutory requisites set forth by   (MCI) for recruitments vide their TEQ regulations 1998 for Dentistry’, letter stated.
 
 AIDRA alleged that government medical colleges at Shahdol, Sagar and Chhindwara are holding interviews in violation of directions and procedures as stipulated by directorate of medical education (DME).
 
 
