RAIPUR: He started playing leather ball cricket after watching  . However, unlike his idol,   is a late bloomer. It was only in 2012, Thakur broke into the Vidarbha squad at 28. Since then, this left-arm seamer has been an integral part of the set up.

 This year, however, has been different. Thakur, a constable by profession, was in the Ranji Trophy squad for Punjab game. However, he was left out without giving a look in, only to be recalled for the all-important final match against Delhi.
 
 With experience under his belt, Thakur looked favourite to replace   in the playing eleven before Vidarbha team management opted for young Aditya Thakare. The critics had started writing this crafty pacer off but now he is proving them wrong. In the ongoing Central Zone Syed Mushtaq Ali Twenty20 tournament, the 33-year-old is nothing short of exceptional.
 
 Thakur has provided breakthroughs whenever Vidarbha needed them. In three matches so far, the Akola pacer has taken 8 wickets at an average of 10.12 and economy of 7.36. His career best 4/29 on Friday set Vidarbha's seven-run victory over Madhya Pradesh. If he was good against Railways, where he picked up 3/26 in his four overs, Thakur was even better against MP.
 
 Every time Vidarbha looked like losing the plot, skipper   turned to Thakur. The constable did the job every time. After MP openers   and Rajat Patidar played out initial spells from Shrikant Wagh and Rajneesh Gurbani, Thakur made the initial breakthrough. He sent back MP's last match hero Patidar with a slower bouncer in his first over.
 
 Faiz rightly saved Thakur's three overs for the last. Vidarbha looked in control till the 11th over before Sohraab Dhariwal and Anshul Tripathi started playing aggressively against spinners. Faiz again turned to his death over specialist. He varied his pace intelligently, bowled to the field to deny the MP pair any room to hit.
 
 While Sohraab and Tripathi were manufacturing the boundaries off other bowlers, they were finding it difficult against Thakur. MP coach Harvinder Singh Sodhi said Thakur's bowling made all the difference. "He was using his variations very intelligently. He bowled in good areas where batsmen found it difficult to free their arms. Most importantly, he took wickets at right time for Vidarbha. It's the only way to stop the opposition from scoring runs in Twenty20. He was hit for a six off the first ball but showed great temperament to bowl good five balls," Sodhi said.
 
 Thakur has been in instrumental in Vidarbha's success in the shorter formats for the last three years and has often done the job. Vidarbha have topped the One-day group twice in three years. Vidarbha are again on a roll now and Thakur has played his part perfectly.
 
 
