 ( ) is an aptitude examination conducted by the National University of Advanced Legal Studies, Kochi, to select eligible candidates for admission to various National Law Universities in the country. This year, the exam will be held on Sunday, May, 13, 2018 from 3 PM to 5 PM.

 The candidates who wish to prepare fot the   can go though the details provided below to crack the entrance exam: 
 
 
 
 
 The question paper of CLAT is divided into five different sections - English, General Knowledge, Legal Reasoning, Reasoning (Logical and Analytical) and Mathematics. 
 
 Legal Aptitude – 50 marks
 English – 40 marks
 GK – 50 marks
 Mathematical Ability – 20 marks
 Logical Ability- 40 marks
 
 The candidates are advised to answer only those questions that they know as there negative marking involved.
 
 
 
 Prepare a study plan and divide your hours into reading newspapers, magazines, novels, solving model and previous year question papers, solving analytical reasoning and math questions and absorbing knowledge. 
 
 
 
 
 The CLAT exam paper consists of 200 questions that candidates need to attempt in a just 120 minutes. So before you write your answer, identify your strengths and weaknesses and plan the paper accordingly. Answer your strong subject first to get the flow. 
 
 
 
 
 If you want to build your carrer in Law field, you need to work hard on your vocabulary. One of the easiest way to build your vocabulary is understanding the principle and application of various topics. You can refer to top daily newspapers such as The Times of India. 
 
 
 
 It is true that you need to study extensively to crack the CLAT 2018 exam but you really don’t need to know everything about everything. You need to prepare a good strategy and select good reading sources. Also reading every day and maintaining regularity is important. 
 
 
 
 
 Solving previous year’s question papers, test papers, mock tests are most important part of CLAT exam preparation. Try solving as many question papers/mock test as possible and try to complete them on time. 
 
