The latest of   starts with   working on something. Dadi passes by his room and seeing him, she thinks that he must be working on the business deal but is shocked to find him working on  's Republic Day event. She is very upset seeing this.

 Naira comes in the room and asks Kartik to focus on business alone. He asks her to make some tea for him. Naira goes to the kitchen and calls her father Naitik. At first Naitik is concerned why did Naira call so late but then they talk about something.
 
 The next morning Kirti is very anxious and feels that she cannot work alone without Naksh. Naksh encourages to try and be independent. Her father-in-law Naitik too motivates her and says that she is taking such a big step and he is very proud of her. Naira also stresses Kartik to work on his presentation again. He asks her why is she so stressed and tells her that it will be fine.
 
 Baisa says that there is no need to pamper Kirti seeing the way her own family behaves. Everyone asks her to not tell anything about this to Kirti as she doesn't know about the shankh. They all gasp on seeing somebody.
 
 Meanwhile, everyone is at the breakfast table. Kartik and Naira are waiting for the client's approval. Naira is shocked to see her father come in.Naksh also accompanies him.
 
  
  
 Naitik looks very angry. Dadi asks him if everything is okay. Naitik blasts Dadi that they have never treated Naira properly.He says that they have always treated Kirti like their own daughter so why did they not treat Naira the same manner. He says that how can he let her stay there when she was thrown out at one point.
 
 Naitik says that Dadi doesn't have the right to judge anyone. Dadi akss him why couldn't he say the same the Bhabhi when she ousted his own wife. Naitik then adds that because of Kirti, he is letting the matter cool down else he would have taken Naira then and there. He tells them that Naira didn't even utter a word when she came back to replace the shankh. He says that since he respects relations, he doesn't want to tell the truth. He adds that he knows everything.
 
 Meanwhile, Aryan makes use of the opportunity and takes away Kartik's laptop when nobody is seeing. He steals away the presentation from Kartik so that he could claim it as his own. Naitik gives a few papers to sign for Naira and Kartik adding that it was a part of his property in his name so that if somebody treats them harshly, they don't have to beg in front of anyone. Dadi takes away the papers from Naitik. Manish apologises to Naitik.
 
