JAIPUR: Contrary to the belief that only girl child is discarded and abandoned by biological parents, state government's report on   ( ) brought to fore shocking figures.

 The report shows that 40% of the safely abandoned infants are boys and 60% are girls. 
 
 According to the report, highest number of infant boys was abandoned in Udaipur division. A total of 36 infants were abandoned at cradles under APSY in two years out of which 20 were girls and 16 were boys. 
 
 In Bikaner division, more boys (4) than girls (2) were abandoned under APSY. In Kota divisions too, six boys and five girls were abandoned. 
 
 The figures are clearly suggesting that disliking of girls might be a reason for abandoning of girl child but there must be a lot many reasons which are responsible for abandoning of infants. 
 
 The report shows that 117 infants were abandoned out of which 70 were girls and 47 were boys. However, while undergoing treatment, 11 girls and six boys had died. But, still, 100 of them are alive. APSY is a scheme which was launched with an aim to save life of infants which are abandoned in streets and bushes or at some isolated places which put life of such infants in danger. But, 68 cradles installed in government hospitals across the state under APSY is promoting safe abandoning of infants as a result of that 100 lives of infants have been saved in past two years. 
 
 Even the authorities are surprised with the fact that 40% of the infants’ abandoned are boys. “It was shocking for us when we came to know about it. But, if it is asked why so many boys were abandoned, I think there is a need to study and examine to find its actual causes. There may be multiple reasons,” said Yog Guru Devendra Agarwal, state advisor, APSY. 
 
 Since, the cradles are installed at isolated places in the hospitals and also APSY promises not to disclose the identity of persons safely abandoning their infants in cradles installed in the hospital, the reason of abandoning of   is not known. 
 
 
