BENGALURU: The cheer was contagious as Bengalureans ushered in the   with parties and revelry on Sunday. Crowds that gathered from early evening and grew as the clocked ticked down to midnight, milled on MG Road, Church Street and Brigade Road as they enjoyed a traditional end-of-year night out.

 Women and children joined seamlessly with hooting and cheering youngsters through the evening, relegating to a distant memory all the talk of alleged mass molestation during last year’s celebrations. The huge   presence only served as a reassuring factor.
 
 
  
  
 
 Elsewhere, in Koramangala and Indirnagar, the revelry reached a crescendo and liquor flowed in pubs and other watering holes where revellers jived cheek-by-jowl on dance floors.
 
 A sedate Sunday morning gave way to frenetic action late afternoon. Crowded Metro trains disgorged hundreds of revellers at stations along MG Road. By the evening, police presence was pronounced. As a precautionary measure, bomb squads and sniffer dogs were seen visiting shops, malls, liquor joints and other commercial establishments.
 
 Brigade Road was jampacked by 9 pm. Although police had junked the idea of segregating men and women on Church Street, they did put a little of the idea into practice. A two-foot corridor was created for people, irrespective of their sex, wanting smooth passage amid all the jostling. A watch tower was erected at the Brigade Road-Church Street junction, providing police a panoramic view on three sides. Brigade Road was closed to traffic at 8 pm and half-a-dozen door-frame metal detectors placed at the entry. Heavilydrunk and ‘suspicious looking’ revelers were not allowed beyond the detectors. People were only allowed entry from   junction. Several drones mounted with cameras kept vigil at the MG Road-Brigade Road junction. They were thy cynosure of many revelers.
 
 On MG Road, a group of youths were seen holding placards asking people to speak Kannada, while another group waved posters demanding Pakistan release Kulbhushan Jadhav, who has been imprisoned for spying. Yet another held a protest against the revelry!
 
 Home minister   and DG&IGP Neelmani Raju personally inspected the security arrangements. Hawkeyed police detained a man clad in a burqa on suspicion that he was out to create mischief. A dozenpickpockets were detained. At least 10 men were arrested for misbehaving with women. The revellers were dispersed after 1 pm. Police were seen escorting to safety some women who were stuck among revellers.
 
 Senior police officials led by city police commissioner T   were present at the MG road-Brigade Road junction. In Koramangala and Indiranagar, the other major hubs of revelry, celebrations were mostly confined indoors although there were a few boisterous displays on pavements.
 
