BADAMI: The historic town of Badami, 35km from Bagalkot, on Tuesday was witness to two high-profile persons filing their nomination papers for the assembly polls. While chief minister   did it with pomp and fanfare,   MP B   chose to make it a low-key affair.

 Spiking all speculation that he would change his route and file his nomination papers from Koppal or Kushitigi, Siddaramaiah came to Badami accompanied by sitting MLA B B Chimanakatti, Devraj Patil to whom the ticket had been given and S R Patil, KPCC working president.
 
 Donning the pataka, the traditional North Karnataka headgear, the CM emerged from the tahsildar’s office said: “I am the candidate now.’’ Braving the scorching sun, he participated in a 3-km roadshow followed by a public meeting. Before filing his nomination, CM visited the Banashankari temple to seek the deity’s blessings.
 
 Sreeramulu filed his nomination after visiting the Hanuman temple. A roadshow planned before the nomination filing was cancelled by party leaders, disappointing his supporters.
 
 BJP state president  , former CM Jagadish Shettar, state incharge Muralidhar Rao, Union minister Prakash Javdekar accompanied Sreeramulu to file his nomination. Badami district BJP general secretary Mahentesh Mamadapur and former MLA M K Pattanshetty also filed their nomination papers, upset with the party at denying them tickets. Mamadapur said he had filed the nomination on the instructions of the BJP central leadership as did Pattanshetty. This triggered speculation that Sreeramulu will withdraw his candidature on April 27 and allow Mamadapur to contest.
 
 Addressing a public meeting after the roadshow at the Kanakadas Education Institute here, the CM said North Karnataka leaders, including Patil, M B Patil, R B Thimmapur among others, had been putting pressure on him to contest from North Karnataka. “Though I convinced them that I would contest only from  , they persuaded me and the   high command too directed me to do so,’’ he said.
 
 “Badami is not new to me as I have come here several times since 1994. Today, Badami people have created history by giving an overwhelming response to my roadshow. Now, my victory is in your hands,’’ he added.
 
 To BJP and JD(S) statements that fear of losing in Chamundeshwari had made him come to Badami, Siddaramaiah said he was confident of winning with a margin of 25,000 votes from Chamundeshwari.
 
 BYS weak, says CM
 
 Taking a jibe at Yeddyurappa in Mysuru earlier, the CM said the BJP leader is weak. Pointing to his inability to get a ticket for his son from Varuna, he said, “Yeddyurappa was always weak. It’s not now. He is tainted in the eye of the public (and has become weak).”
 
