GANDHINAGAR: The   government had its first meeting with some 18 government of India (GoI) secretaries on Thursday, to discuss preparations for the 8th Vibrant Gujarat Global Investor Summit (VGGIS), which the government of India has been participating in since 2015. 

 Gujarat government officials led by the chief secretary,  , presented a tentative blueprint to the government of India. Secretaries of various government of India departments made suggestions and plans according to ongoing projects of the concerned ministry.
 
 The foreign ministry also put forth the Union government’s expectations, according to the current foreign policy.
 
 The Gujarat government, for the first time, has decided to promote Gujarat as a “trade destination” besides an investment destination. The focus will be on the youth and startups. Gujarat proposed to invite   and youth icons from other top companies to the summit. TED talks are also being planned for the summit, for the first time ever.
 
 A senior officer privy to the development said, “This was the first detailed meeting with the government of India to decide the broad framework of the Vibrant summit scheduled for January 2019. Some 18 secretaries of various ministries attended the brainstorming session. The state government proposes to focus on promoting Gujarat as India’s best trade destination besides being an investment destination. The summit will now be called the ‘Vibrant Gujarat Global Investment & Trade Summit’. 
 
 Most states now call their events investment summits, so ours will go one step ahead as the trendsetter. The state government aims to attract global trade business like Dubai and other international trade centres do. Gujarat is now well known as an investment destination but it needs to be taken one step ahead and be branded as the best trade destination as well. Gujarat has traditionally had a prominent trading culture and has advantages in a number items like chemicals, diamonds, jewellery, textiles etc. There are a number of products in which Gujarat can be a top trade destination. The state government is planning a new policy to promote retail and trade.”
 
 
