AHMEDABAD: Even if Amdavadis think they understand the value of money, they surely do not value precious water despite living in a water-scarce state. A recent   ( ) study has revealed that an average Amdavadi consumes 260-280 litres a day against the supposed 143 to 171 litres a day required for day-today needs. Nearly 65 per cent of this per capita   is met through borewells rather than municipal water supply. This puts tremendous pressure on groundwater resources. 

 "In fact, in the lower income areas like slums, which live amid posh localities in Satellite and Thaltej, the average consumption is 160 litres per individual per day and they are also less dependent on borewell source," says a senior AMC official.
 
 An AMC official of the water supply department told TOI that an August 2016 estimate suggests that Amdavadis together waste 39.34 crore litres of water every single day. 
 
 "We waste water in long showers, in washbasins while shaving and brushing teeth, we are using RO water for hair wash, carwash, and in our toilets we refuse to install a flush system," says the AMC official. This criminally waste can fulfil needs of over 22.16 lakh individuals who are forced walk a few kilometres or wait in long lines behind water tankers. 
 
 Estate developer Suresh Patel has installed water meters for each of the 105 apartments he recently constructed on Ambli road, "We have installed water meters for each apartment and we have separate valves installed on supply lines emanating from the overhead tanks in case locked homes have water leakages issues," said Patel. 
 
 "Like free health camps, we also organize free quarterly plumbing camps for apartment members. Besides this we also announce quarterly 'water heros' based on meter readings where we felicitate families who save water," he added. 
 
 A real estate consultant, Kishor Dedhia adds, "In almost all new apartments coming up in the new west , north and east zones, developers are providing water meters. Besides saving on maintenance, the meters are an excellent way of making residents accountable for water." 
 
 
