VADODARA: At a time when   is facing a major  ,   will become the first publicly funded institute of the state to opt for water audit. 

 The university has kicked off a project whereby it will conduct water audit of the entire campus to know the consumption pattern of water in the campus spread across 272 acres land. The university is aiming to reduce 30 % water consumption taking into account various guidelines including that of the National Building Code (NBC) at its campus including faculties, hostel, residential quarters and head office which receive 24 hours water supply. 
 
 The water audit is aimed at utilising water resources more effectively and efficiently, to keep check on unwanted excess usage of water, to develop water storage structures like ESR, sumps, dams, ponds, bunds among others, for cost-benefit study for optimum recovery of water loss, identify thefts, meter inaccuracies, record inaccuracies and unauthorized water use.
 
 
  
 
 Through the audit, both physical and non-physical losses of water will be determined, the waste water generated and water pollution load will be estimated and priority areas which need attention will be identified. 
 
 “We already know that our campus consumes around 57 lakh litres per day (20,805 lakh litres annually) water. We will now install water meters at various locations to know the actual quantity of water received, consumed and kind of losses incurred in the process,” said university engineer N K Ojha. 
 
 “Through the water meters, we will come to know the actual consumption of the campus including losses and thefts if any,” he said. 
 
 The university’s construction division will then calculate the baseline consumption based on the norms prescribed by NBC/ Indian Green Building Council/ GRIHA whichever is stringent. 
 
 For instance, NBC guidelines restricts excessive usage of water whereby a person should use 175 litres of water per day without bath tub. Similarly, NBC guidelines puts the water usage of visitors at 5-6 litres per person. 
 
 “Once, we know the baseline consumption, we will try to reduce our consumption by 20 % of the baseline consumption. This will be done by adopting water reduction strategies including installing water efficient plumping fixtures, water efficient landscapes, rain water harvesting, rain efficient irrigation system and other means,” said Ojha, adding that the water audit will take at least three months. 
 
 After the water audit, the university will start providing water as per NBC guidelines without disturbing the comfort levels of the consumers. 
 
 “We will also calculate the cost benefit ratio, the payback period and the lifecycle of the materials that will be used in the process,” he said. 
 
 The university will carry out the audit from the funds it has received from the Department of Climate Change of Gujarat government.--
 
 
