NAGPUR: Private schools selected for financial grants from the   (between 2001-2016) will need to cross multiple hurdles before they get to see the money, according to a GR issued on Wednesday by the education department

 The GR has reiterated stringent conditions for such schools. Schools will need to have 100% results for Std IX and X and biometric attendance for both students and teachers to be eligible for grants, something which school associations are strongly opposed to.
 
 Maharashtra Rajya Shikshan Sanstha Mahamandal (MRSSM) has slammed the government’s stand as ‘anti-education’ and wants it to be scrapped immediately. Ravindra Fadnavis, joint secretary of MRSSM, said, “It’s impossible for anybody to meet the conditions. Without financial aid, how will so many biometric machines be installed? Also, the condition of 100% results is outrageous because nobody can guarantee that not even a single student will fail.”
 
 If the school continues to falter in fulfilling any condition for three consecutive years, then it can be closed down by the education department. 
 
 Fadnavis’ association and the state government are currently locked in a legal battle at the Supreme Court over excess teachers and their transfers. “The bottom line is that the government does not want to pay a single penny to schools. Apart from the stringent conditions put in place, the government also says that funds will be given only if available,” said Fadnavis.
 
 He pointed to the government’s clarification that funds will be distributed as and when available. “What’s the point to have so many rules and conditions in place when the education department is going to pay only if they have money? In fact, the department is strapped for cash and simply wriggling out of its promise,” said Fadnavis.
 
 In 2001, the state government had decided to give permission for new schools only on ‘permanently unaided’ basis. About 4,000 schools were given permissions after this. But after pressure from various stakeholders, the word ‘permanently’ was removed in 2009, thus opening the doors for school managements to seek funding from the state.
 
 Though the state did approve partial funding for schools, it formulated various parameters for schools to be eligible for it. MRSSM said the government should give 100% funding without any conditions.
 
 
