CHANDIGARH: Her canvas is beyond a few brushstrokes and colours.   not only captures a single moment but depicts nature ensuring that not only the colours are balanced but also the brushstrokes are in the right direction. "Like a mathematician, her composition should be perfectly aesthetic," says Dr  , chairperson, department of art history and visual arts, who coordinated and curated an exhibition - 'Intrigued' by eminent artist Anupama. The exhibition was inaugurated by Dr Sangeeta Bagga, principal,   at Panjab University on Tuesday. 

 Bhattacharya informed that one of the distinctive aspects of Anupama's canvas boards was its apparent objectivity. "She is interpreting inner feelings and perceptions of life around in most of the works. However, some paintings are dark and have an abstract tinge of violence, which may be a reflection of the struggles she had to overcome. It needs to be understood," he added.
 
 "Anupama as an artist and as a person, has a knack for painting the truth and complexities of nature and the human mind per se. She uses innumerable hues and tonal varieties to justify her thoughts. An extrovert, she is a Bengali to the core. Her expressions are a reflection of the childhood and the cultural influence being married to a north Indian. Temperamental at times, a liberty that all artists enjoy, 'she draws what she feels'. Though, she likes to tag her art as abstract, expressive, her works are more surreal. Weaving human emotions and experiences within them, she paints on canvas and canvas boards mostly and experiments with the 'drip art technique'," said Bhattacharya.
 
 Bagga, felt nostalgic about her visit to the Fine Arts Museum in PU, while inaugurating the exhibition.
 
 "She appreciated the efforts of an artist in transforming the museum live by her colourful paintings. She was shown around the museum by artist to see all the paintings displayed, explaining the hidden message conveyed by each painting.
 
 Renuka B Salwan, director, public relations in her address said that the exhibition was being held at an appropriate time as holi festival is around the corner. "This is spring season which is associated with hues of colour. Anupama's paintings are full of colours depicting the persona of an artist," Salwan added. 
 
 
