MUMBAI: Even as the   and the   plan a   for the   and  , the bypoll for the   may set the tone for the alliance as both have staked claim on the seat.

 The by-election for Gondia is on cards following the resignation of Nana Patole, who quit the BJP citing “the anti-farmer policies” of the NDA government. “I have quit the BJP and joined the Congress. I have no plans to contest the by-election. If NCP leader Praful Patel quits the NCP and contests for Lok Sabha as BJP nominee, then I am there in the fray to defeat him. In the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, I had defeated him by a huge margin,’’ Patole told TOI.
 
 As of now, the NCP has taken the view that since Praful Patel had contested the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, he is the first claimant to the seat. However, it remains to be seen if the Congress concedes it to him.
 
 The January 15 polls for office bearers of the Gondia and Bhandara zilla parishads too assumes significance. In Gondia zilla parishad, the Congress has joined hands with the BJP, while in Bhandara, the NCP is in alliance with the Congress.
 
 State Congress president Ashok Chavan, however, chooses to make a distinction between equations for the local body polls and the general elections. “These are local issues (in zilla parishads), but we will have to settle them. So far as contesting the Gondia Lok Sabha bypoll is concerned, we will make efforts to have a common candidate to ensure defeat of the BJP nominee,’’ Chavan said.
 
 Chavan said the state Congress unit is keen on an alliance with the NCP for the assembly and Lok Sabha polls. “We are in favour of an alliance; still we will have to seek permission of the Congress high command. We are of the view that not only the NCP, but we should join hands with all like-minded parties to halt division of secular votes and ensure defeat of communal forces,’’ Chavan said.
 
 NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik endorsed Chavan’s views, saying, none other than NCP president Sharad Pawar has taken a lead in initiating talks with its erstwhile ally. “We too are of the opinion that besides the Congress, we should invite like-minded parties for defeating communal forces,’’ he said.
 
 A former Congress MP said the Gondia bypoll as well as the zilla parishad polls will decide the fate of the Congress and NCP alliance. “I do not think the Congress should join hands with the NCP on the ground that most of its leaders are facing charges of corruption. We should contest the polls independently if we are serious about defeating the BJP,’’ he said.
 
 
