In the previous episode of  , the entire house gets punished. The 14th day of the house starts with the song 'Ye Go Ye, Ye Maina'.   and Rajesh are seen hugging each other for a long time. 

 Resham, who is part of the kitchen team, is unable to prepare breakfast for everyone since she was up whole night. 
 
 Resham and Usha have a fight and the former warns the latter not to gossip about her in front of anyone. Even Aastad and Pushkar are not happy with Usha's gossiping nature.
 
 The previous day, contestants were divided into two groups for 'chor' (thief) and police task. So, after Usha and Resham's fight, Bigg Boss calls   and Sai in the confession room. Bigg Boss asks them to reveal all the things that they have stolen since they were members of the 'chor' team. 
 
 They mention 29 things that were stolen by the team 'chor'.
 
 Then the two teams are seen discussing rules of the game. There are some arguments related to the strategy. 
 
 Bigg Boss then declares that both the teams have failed in the task, as a result all the contestants are punished. 
 
 Everyone in the house is asked to go to the garden area and stand in the square marked by red tape.
 
 Bigg Boss announces that no one is allowed to cross that square area till the end of the day. Then they are supposed to conquer all the corners of the house. If any is left, then the contestants will not be allowed to use that part of the house for a certain period of time.
 
 Bigg Boss then says that the contestants can take over the house in parts and areas. In return they have to sacrifice some thing. 
 
 The housemates first decide to take over the kitchen area for which Bigg Boss gives them a choice of selecting either rice or wheat flour. The contestants decide to select rice and sacrifice the wheat flour.
 
 Bigg Boss then informs contestants that the way to kitchen goes from the garden area. So, they have to take over the garden area next. And for that, they have to select any two contestants, one male and one female who will stay for a certain time period.
 
 Resham and Rajesh decide to stay in the garden area to which their co-contestants tease them with the song 'Tujhya Majhya Sansarala Aani Kay Hava'. 
 
 Bigg Boss then announces that the way to kitchen area goes from the living room. So, the housemates have to even take over the living room. For that, the condition placed by Bigg Boss is that one of the contestants will have to be nominated for a certain time period. 
 
 Rutuja and Aastad decide to get themselves nominated but everyone says that Rutuja is new in the industry so she should not go out. Megha announces Aastad's name for getting nominated in the upcoming week. 
 
 For taking over the girls' bedroom, Bigg Boss asks them to sacrifice 4 blankets. The girls do the same. And for taking over the boys' bedroom, Bigg Boss asks the boys to guard the captain's room and for that Pushkar and Aastad get ready.
 
 After giving the punishment, Bigg Boss asks the contestants to continue with the task of 'Chor Police'. But this time the teams have to shuffle their roles. 
 
  from the 'chor' team is the first to go to the jail. 
 
 
