KOLKATA: “Dada, aami banchte chai. Dada aami sotti sotti banchte cheyechhilam… dada, aami je banchte boro bhalobashi… dada, ami bachbo…” (“Brother, I want to live… brother, I will live…”) — Supriya Devi’s cult dialogues from Ritwik Ghatak’s ‘Meghe Dhaka Tara’ played on like a refrain ever since the news of her demise at 85 broke out early on Friday.

 But the   of Bengal, the legendary on-screen and off-screen partner of Uttam Kumar, the ‘Janani’ of Bengali megaserials will live on. Not only as a Padma Shri, Banga Bibhushan and Filmfare East Lifetime Achievement Award recipient, but also as someone who dared to live life on her own terms.
 
 CM   tweeted: “Very saddened at the passing of legendary actress of Bengal, Supriya Chowdhury (Devi). We will fondly remember her through her films. Condolences to her family and fans.”
 
 One of the last survivors from Bengali filmdom’s golden period, Supriya Devi succumbed to a cardiac arrest.
 
 Supriya, one half of the three lead pairs — Uttam-Suchitra, Uttam-Sabitri and Uttam-Supriya — that gave the industry one hit after another, was born in Myitkyina, Myanmar (erstwhile Burma). Her father, Gopal Chandra Banerjee, was a barrister. It was under his direction that a seven-year-old Supriya played male roles in two plays — Shah Jehanand Nar Narayan. During World War II, her family decided to relocate to Kolkata. Stories of how her family had undertaken most of the 2,000-km journey over a month and 23 days on foot still do the rounds of the film industry corridors.
 
 Making her debut in ‘Basu Paribar’, Supriya soon became a much-in-demand heroine in Bengali cinema. A broken marriage and her single mother status didn’t pose as hurdles when she wanted to return to Tollywood.
 
  too had fallen for her charm. She had acted opposite Dharmendra in ‘Aap Ki Parchhaiyan’. Though she had politely turned down Dev Anand’s offer to act in ‘Teen Deviyaan’, she had accepted ‘Door Gagan Ki Chhaon Mein’ because it was an offbeat film by  . Few know that she was supposed to even act in a Mani Kaul film titled ‘Ahmaq’ starring Shah Rukh Khan in 1991.
 
 In 1960, Ghatak cast her as Neeta — a character that has become a subject of international cinematic discourse.
 
 When her sensuality became the talk of the town, many feared it would eclipse the attention her theatrical abilities deserved. Thankfully, it didn’t. But what took away, to some extent, the attention she deserved as an actress, was the talk of her off-screen relationship with Uttam Kumar even after he passed away in 1980.
 
 Some even wondered if this encroached on her independent space as an actor? But Supriya couldn’t care less about what the world said. Her emotional narrative never changed. She unabashedly continued to dwell on Uttam Kumar, sometimes even more than her professional career.
 
 Her admirers will continue to feel her presence — both as an actress and an icon who epitomised the essence of love, loss and longing.
 
