The Tiruvallur police on Friday detained 15 villagers for lynching a person with learning difficulties suspecting him to be a child lifter near Pulicat Lake in the district on Wednesday night. The mob had also gouged out his left eye. After killing him, the man’s body was hung from a flyover. The victim’s identity is yet to be established. “They beat him badly after tying him to a lamppost and then killed him,” said a police officer. Police said that they are trying to identify the suspects with the help of a WhatsApp video.

 The Tiruvannamalai police on Friday arrested a 29-year-old mason for circulating a message through WhatsApp which led to some lynching incidents in the state. It is the first arrest made in the state for circulating rumours that resulted in lynching of five people in Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts in the last three weeks. Tiruvannamalai superintendent of police R Ponni told TOI that police department’s cybercrime wing had tracked the rumourmonger who said child lifters were on the prowl and two children had been kidnapped.
 
 The arrested was identified as R Veeraraghavan of Purisai village in Cheyyar taluk. The police registered a case against him under sections 505 (statements conducing public mischief) and 507 (criminal intimidation by anonymous communication) of the Indian Penal Code. “He circulated a video message, either on April 21 or on April 22. It went viral in WhatsApp groups and spread to Cheyyar, Vandavasi, Arni and other parts of the district,” a police officer said.
 
 In another incident at Medhur, police arrested two people for attacking a man from Odisha. They were identified as Saranraj and Mahendran. They attacked a person named Lakshmanan from Odisha. He worked in a private company at  .
 
 Police said Lakshmanan was standing at the bus stop after the day’s work when the duo came in the bike and questioned where he was from. They started lynching him after he failed to answer them. The   rushed to the spot to save the victim and sent him to the Ponneri Government Hospital.
 
 Meanwhile, the Kancheepuram police arrested 11 people for attacking a person with learning difficulties.
 
 In another incident, reported on May 6 at Siva Kanchi police limits, villagers attacked Asith Pujir, 20, a migrant worker. He was admitted at the CMC hospital in Vellore with severe injuries. Police have arrested  , 25, Jagadeesh, 23, Sampath, 19, Prashanth, 20, Ramachandran, 31, Karthik, 28, all hailing from   in Kancheepuram.
 
 In yet another attack on a 40-yearold unidentified man with learning difficulties, villagers of Konerikuppam near Kancheepuram lynched him on April 29. In this case, police arrested Dinakaran and Hameed, both hailing from   and Mansoor Ali from Perambakkam.
 
