Mumbai: Lenders of   on Wednesday called for fresh bids, rejecting the offers made by   and ArcelorMittal on eligibility grounds. 

 The lenders’ decision came a day after Numetal moved the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), seeking a declaration that it is eligible to make an offer for Essar Steel. Responding to Numetal’s plea,   on Wednesday said that any decision taken by Essar Steel’s creditors would be subject to its decision in the case. NCLT will hear Numetal’s petition on April 4.
 
 The Mauritius-registered bidder approached the Ahmedabad branch of NCLT as it feared that its offer for Essar Steel “may not be considered properly” by the lenders. Numetal’s bid has been under a cloud as rules bar defaulting promoters and parties related to them from participating in the auction process of insolvent assets. One of the shareholders of Numetal is Rewant Ruia, the son of Essar Steel’s co-founder Ravi Ruia.
 
 Numetal’s majority shareholder   Bank had earlier said that the company’s bid complies with rules and, if required, existing shareholders have the option to buy out Rewant’s 25% stake. Besides Rewant and Russian Bank VTB, which holds 40% in Numetal, the other shareholders in the company include Russian engineering firm TPE, UAE-based trader Indo International and professionals.
 
 ArcelorMittal’s bid was rejected because it held stakes in defaulting companies Uttam Galva Steel and KSS Petron. It, however, offloaded its holdings in the two companies days before submitting the proposal for Essar Steel. Rules prohibit companies that hold interests in non-performing assets for more than a year before the commencement of the resolution process from participation. ArcelorMittal had earlier said that its offer did not violate rules.
 
 Both Numetal and ArcelorMittal are expected to submit revised bids after they resolve their eligibility issues. Lenders have also decided to allow those players who had earlier submitted an expression of interest for Essar Steel to make fresh offers. The companies that previously showed interest but did not make a final bid were  , Vedanta, Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal, and  . 
 
 
