MUMBAI: A sessions court on Wednesday granted bail to two managers of restobar 1Above in the   fire case. The bail applications of seven other accused were rejected. 

 The December 29, 2017, fire that started at 1Above and Mojo’s Bistro had claimed lives. Additional sessions judge SV Yarlagadda granted bail to managers Lisbon Lopez and   on a personal surety of Rs 25,000 each. Allowing Lopez’s plea, the court said that as a manager, the extent of his contribution to the fire is a subject matter of trial. 
 
 The court, however, cautioned that since there is no denying that he is an employee of the other accused, strict instructions need to be given so that he should not get in touch witnesses. No relief was granted to Mojo’s Bistro owner Yug Pathak; Kamala Mills Ltd directors   and Ramesh Govani; 1Above’s owners Kripesh Sanghavi, Jigar Sanghavi and Abhijeet Mankar; and fire officer  . Rejecting their bail pleas, the court observed that the accused did not pay heed to directions to remove illegal structures on the premises. Further, the court said that during the hearing of the bail petitions, it had noticed that the owners of the eateries were trying to shift the burden on each other by saying that the fire started on the other one’s premises. “As per the prosecution’s case, it emanated from hookah charcoal. 
 
 Therefore, this conduct of applicants show that they are not entitled to bail,” the court said. The court also refused to accept the defence contention that the charge of culpable homicide not amounting to murder was not applicable in the case. It accepted the prosecution’s submissions that because the terrace was being used as a restaurant, it was covered and there was no proper exit or sufficient fire safety measures. 
 
 Referring to the defence of the accused that there was no intention to cause the deaths, the court said that intention itself is not the only factor to determine culpable homicide. “The knowledge of causing death is also to be considered,” the court said.
