CHENNAI:The   protesters on Tuesday called off their protests and decided to return to their respective cities and towns in the state. The coordinators of the Jacto-Geo announced this at Rajarathinam Stadium on   in Egmore. Earlier, all the arrested protesters were detained at the stadium and were set free after 6pm. But the agitators refused to leave the place and decided to continue with their protests all through the night and on Wednesday.

 However, police officers negotiated with the protesters and finally they agreedto calloff their agitation temporarily. Following this, police personnel evacuated all the agitators at the stadium and they were dropped off at Chennai Egmore, Chennai Central and   bus terminus as per their wish. Police personnel escorted them in the police vehicles.
 
 Earlier, Chennai city police arrested 7,584 protesters, including 1,704 women, for marching towards the secretariat to gherao the state headquarters demanding that the government implement the old pension scheme after scrapping the newly introduced one.
 
 The protesters blocked the arterial Anna Salai-Wallajah Road junction. Police blocked the vehicular movement on Kamarajar Salai from Gandhi Statue to RBI subway to prevent the protesters from reaching the secretariat. Police used barbed wire on top of the barricades and kept them on Kamarajar Salai to prevent the protesters from breaching the security by climbing over the barricades.
 
 Earlier,DMK andother allied political party workers, while protesting against the central government on Wallajah Road, breached the security by pushing down all the barricades. The march affected traffic on   and many other roads. Police personnel kept barricades in front of Triplicane police station, Chepauk Guest House, near   distance education building and opposite the MGR memorial.
 
 As police sealed all the roads to the secretariat, the protesters walked through lanes and narrow pathways to reach Kamarajar Salai. As many as 2,500 police personnel were deployed in and around the secretariat.
 
 The   police estimated that around 25,000 protesters, including 4,500 women, from various districts reached Chennai on Monday night by cars, vans and train. The protest was peaceful. Police personnel were sympathetic towards the protesters as Jacto-Geo members were protesting for all sections of government employees.
 
