VISAKHAPATNAM: In a bad news to   consumers in  , members of the AP State Wine Dealers’ Association (APSWDA) have continued not buying liquor from the government-run depots, seeking increase in the trade margin from the existing 10% to 21%. In fact, hardly Rs 30 lakh worth of liquor was sold by the government run depots in the city on Thursday against the daily average of Rs 3 crore.

 The owners of all the 4,380 liquor shops in the state including 600 odd in north coastal AP and about 200 in   city alone, daily, buy nearly Rs 50 crore worth of liquor from the depots, including Rs 3 crore worth of liquor in Vizag city. “However, due to the protest effective from Wednesday, more than 90% of the dealers across state have stopped buying liquor from the government depots run by the department of excise,” said a wine shop owner from Vizag city, G Ganesh, who is also secretary to APSWDA. 
 
 “Yes, we have sold hardly Rs 30 lakh worth of liquor on Thursday against the average daily sale of Rs 3 crore in Vizag city,” admitted a senior excise official to TOI. Explaining the sudden decision of not to buy the liquor from the liquor depots, Ganesh said that the government cheated the dealers at the time of the licence agreement. 
 
 “Before June 2017, the government granted 21% commission on the sale of liquor at the retail market by the dealers. However after July 2017, the margin was decreased to 10%. With the 10% margin we are not able to sustain by meeting our expenditures, salaries, maintenance, power supply etc,” Ganesh said.
 
 Another wine shop owner from Gajuwaka said that earlier they used to manage the expenditures by indulging in the MRP violations like selling the liquor more than the MRP and the department also used to co-operate with them indirectly.
 
 “But, the situation has been changed with the strict enforcement on the MRP violations. We are also strictly following the MRP rules. So, this 10% trade margin is not helping us to meet our expenditures like salaries to boys and other facilities to the consumes,” the liquor shop owner said. A liquor consumer said that if the dealers continued their protest in form of not buying the liquor from the depots, there would be shortage of liquor in the market and that would lead to encourage the black-market sale of the liquor. 
 
 “The government should solve the issue at the earliest in order to benefit all the stakeholders, consumer, dealer and the government itself,” the liquor consumer said. 
 
 
