NAGPUR: The much-delayed waste-to-energy project of   (NMC) will be delayed further as the civic agency is waiting for chief minister   to perform bhoomipujan. 

 The concessionaire Nagpur Solid Waste Processing and Management Pvt Ltd (NSWPMPL) is unable to start construction of the waste-to-energy plant as the NMC is yet to give the green signal.
 
 A source in the NMC said that general body of the civic body had passed a resolution to hand over required land to the concessionaire way back in July 2017. The administration endorsed this proposal in November 2017. Now all formalities have been completed and the NMC is only waiting for CM’s presence for the function.
 
 The source further said that NMC had sought Fadnavis’s time on April 29, when he was in the city for the whole day. However, it could not get CM’s time for some reason.
 
 NMC executive engineer   denied that there was any delay in the project. “Work on segregation of garbage has already started,” he said. He, however, parried queries on construction of the plant merely saying that the concessionaire had been given two years to complete the plant.
 
 The contract was awarded to NSWPMPL, a joint venture of   and Hitachi Zosan India Private Ltd. The plant will process 800 tonne of waste every day. The generation capacity of the plant is 11.5 MW. The approved project cost is Rs 207 crore. NMC will give Rs 70 crore to NSWPMPL as viability gap funding (VGF) for execution under Swachh Bharat Mission. The civic agency will pay tipping charges of Rs 225 per tonne, which will increase by 4.5% every year.
 
 The concession period is 15 years out of which two years is for construction and 13 years is the tariff period — when NSWPMPL will sell power to state discom MSEDCL at the rate of Rs 7 per unit.
 
 NSWPMPL will also operate existing landfill site and develop two more, including their operation and maintenance for 15 years. This will ensure mitigation of fire incidents, foul smell, pollution in groundwater and air.
 
 
