PANAJI: Exactly a week after he was admitted to Mumbai’s   with pancreatitis and nearly five hours after he was discharged, Goa chief minister   rose to present his Budget for 2018-19 in the assembly on Thursday. Parrikar flew in to Goa by a special aircraft of the Maharashtra government and after a brief stopover at his residence, drove down to the assembly. 

 
 Dressed in a crisp blue formal shirt, he strode into the House to applause and a standing ovation from members. And at 3pm, Parrikar, who also holds the finance portfolio, started his six-minute Budget speech “with all humility”, thanking “lakhs of Goan brothers and sisters, including leaders of various communities and religions”.
 
 “I stand before this august house with renewed strength and confidence to present the annual financial statement for 2018-19,” he began, as he presented a Rs 144.7-crore surplus budget.
 
 “This year would be the year of employment. My government has given stress on generating local employment by providing nearly Rs 549 crore in the sectors of industry, labour and employment and information and technology,” Parrikar said.
 
 Appearing to take note of the gap between education and the skills required by industry, Parrikar said, “I have understood the shortcomings of our educational system which needs to be tuned with the requirements of the industry, so as to increase the potential towards employment and self-entrepreneurship. I have made adequate provision of Rs 2,245 crore in the total educational sector, including medical education.” 
 
 Given that the CM presented a vote on account for the first five months of the next financial year, the Budget documents do not outline the strategy that Parrikar has in mind to achieve his twin objectives.
 
 Parrikar did not outline any tax proposals or budget schemes, but he did specify that he would announce the tax proposals and new schemes by March 31, so that they could be implemented in the new financial year.
 
 “In this year, the state’s economy is estimated to be Rs 77,171 crore, which reveals a growth of 10%,” Parrikar said.
 
 
