Just when Tuticorin was settling into an uneasy calm, protests against Tuesday’s firing erupted across  .

 In Chennai, DMK working president   and MLAs belonging to his party and the   were arrested while staging a protest on   to seek the immediate resignation of chief minister   and DGP T K Rajendran for the police firing in Tuticorin.
 
 
 Protests by various organisations and parties against the police action were reported from across the state, specifically in Madurai and Trichy districts. Protesters damaged at least four buses in Madurai city. The police arrested 20 members of the Makkal Marumalarchi Kazhagam when they staged a rail roko at the Trichy Junction.
 
 Around 11am, Stalin and other MLAs were at the secretariat to participate in a business advisory committee meeting to decide on the dates for debates in the assembly for grants to several departments. The chief minister, the deputy chief minister and others were present. Soon after the meeting started, Stalin walked out and the others followed him. He wanted to meet the chief minister along with all the MLAs but was asked to come with only a few of them. But Stalin, DMK MLAs and Congress legislative party chief K Ramaswamy, sat outside the CM’s room and raised slogans demanding that Palaniswami and the DGP resign immediately. After a few minutes, police requested the MLAs to move out, but they refused to budge.
 
 Policemen lifted Stalin from the spot and took him outside. Stalin and others immediately moved to Rajaji Salai and sat on the road, blocking traffic. Later, the policemen moved Stalin and the MLAs to a police vehicle. As news of Stalin and others being ‘arrested’ spread, hundreds of DMK supporters arrived at the spot and blocked vehicles. They also blocked the RBI subway. The police vehicle carrying the MLAs got as far as a marriage hall in Royapuram.
 
 “I will face any case registered against me. I will bravely take a bullet,” he said. “How can he call women and children who participated in the protest and lost their lives anti-social elements,” asked Stalin.
 
 But the chief minister hit back. “It was a planned move by the DMK to protest outside my office,” he said. “Stalin not getting an appointment to meet me is a false claim.”
 
 Meanwhile, in Madurai over 200 people took part in a protest by the CPM at Palanganatham. They raised slogans against the government and police. Several members of the Joint Action Council of Teachers Organisations and Government Employees Organisations thronged the Madurai collectorate and raised slogans against the   unit. They urged the government to close down the unit.
 
 DMK MLA K N Nehru held a meeting at the district party office in Trichy. In a statement, Nehru and DMK district secretary   urged all those who participate in Friday’s bandh to make it successful.
 
 
