INDORE: The   of   on Monday registered a major success in seizing over 64,000 bottles of illegally smuggled   from a truck in Indore.

 The truck driver had hidden 400 boxes of syrup among sacks of onion and potatoes, narcotics ADG Varun Kapoor told TOI.
 
 “We have been receiving information about illegal smuggling of codeine phosphate preparations. Subsequently, we identified a godown where the goods were stored and kept a vigil,” he said.
 
 Soon after the truck laden with the syrup bottles came out, the narcotics team stopped and searched it, the ADG added.
 
 “The printed price on the syrup bottles led to an estimate that consignment was valued at Rs 61.44 lakh. But each syrup bottle is sold at Rs 300 in black market, thus escalating its value to Rs 1.92 crore,” Kapoor said.
 
 The narcotics police also found 145 sacks of onions and seven sacks of potatoes in the truck.
 
 Truck driver Mohanlal Pathak, 54, a resident of Ravidas Nagar, was booked under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.
 
 The driver told the interrogators that the he was paid a meagre sum to transport the consignment to Siliguri in West Bengal.
 
 “We are in the process of ascertaining modus operandi of smugglers. Prima facie, it appears that the branded syrup was procured at godown through legal channels from Himachal Pradesh based manufacturing company. But they were being pushed into the back channels,” Kapoor said.
 
 The cough syrup, which is often misused by addicts to get high due to the codeine content, is believed to be supplied by the dummy firms in the state through back-channels to Kolkata and  , where the demand is high.
 
 In September 2017, Madhya Pradesh's drug controller's office had suspended licences of eight pharmaceutical wholesalers of Ujjain for a brief period, after a probe revealed that over six lakh bottles of codeine based cough syrups were sold by them to a dummy firm in Bhopal.
 
 According to United Nations Office of Drug and Crime (UNODC), codeine is a narcotic drug and causes addiction when used in large quantities over a period of time. Cough preparation containing chlorpheniramine maleate, an anti-histaminic, in addition to codeine phosphate, have been widely abused in certain areas of east and north-eastern states.
 
 Empty bottles of codeine phosphate cough syrups of different brands are often found in public and touristy places, a UNODC report said.
 
 
