NEW DELHI: Roads leading towards India Gate were choked throughout the day as thousands of lawyers gathered near the high court on Friday for Bar Council of Delhi elections. Police were forced to barricade some of the roads as last minute campaigns by candidates resulted in lawyers blocking half of Mathura Road. The situation is likely to remain the same over the next two days.

 Not only were the vehicles being used for campaigning parked on the roads, but a few lawyers had even set up tents on the footpaths opposite the zoo entrance to hold meetings. Subramaniam Bharti Marg, Mathura Road and eventually a part of India Gate were soon choked. The feeble efforts of cops asking lawyers to clear the area fell on deaf ears.
 
 Those heading to their workplaces at ITO and   found their access along the main road blocked by a huge posse of black coats and cops. Traffic was held hostage for hours by the lawyers as they had failed to inform traffic police about the huge numbers who would be present for the elections.
 
 “It took me nearly an hour to cross the stretch between Sunder Nagar and the high court. No one seemed bothered about clearing the traffic. People were jaywalking and if felt as if a strike was on,” said Ritesh Anand, who was heading to his office at ITO from Lajpat Nagar.
 
 Commuters also vented their ire on social media. “Who allowed this Bar Council of Delhi to block all the roads & put this whole Delhi region traffic of Patiala House, Purana Qila road on hostage? Ambulance UP23T 7365 was at standstill for 15 minutes at 19:00.” posted Abhay on a social media handle.
 
 Around 3pm, policemen asked motorists to drive on one side of the road to streamline the traffic when they saw a group of lawyers holding placards standing on Mathura Road. However, as the driveway was not wide enough for vehicles to pass, it resulted in complete chaos.
 
 By late evening, thousands of vehicles were stuck on the major arteries connecting central and south Delhi. The fallout of the   at India Gate led a slowdown even at Siri Fort. The tailback also reached the Ring Road with traffic stretching from the Bhairon Marg crossing till   making the average waiting time around 25 minutes. Motorists also complained that they were not allowed to take U-turns on Mathura Road by police to avoid choking the other carriageway.
 
 
