She is an MBA graduate, who left her banking career just to follow her heart. Her search led her to modelling, and eventually,   as she’s fondly called, became a fave in the reality show, Enga Veetu Mapillai. We speak to her on being part of the show,  , and her rollercoaster ride…
 
 
 While pursuing MBA, I began modelling and slowly developed an interest in it. I began applying for magazine covers and was selected — this increased my confidence levels. When my course was about to end, I got a job in a bank through my college placements. But I couldn’t do both — modelling and work — as it became hectic and stressful. Eventually, I had to give up one and I chose to give up banking. I started taking part in pageants and took up several other modelling assignments. However, I didn’t tell my brother or my parents, as they would be concerned about my leaving such a secure job. But somehow, I wanted to give my passion a try, as it is one of those things that I will not be able to do after a certain age. Since I had good scores, I knew that if modelling didn’t work, I could always go back to a full-time job. Eventually, my hard work paid off and I won various titles, like Miss Healthy Eyes in various pageants.
 
 
 I wasn’t very serious when I applied for Enga Veetu Mapillai. But when I got selected, I got a bit tense as I didn’t know how it was going to pan out. But nevertheless, I decided to give it a try. When I went there, I saw Sriya… I know her as she and I have done modelling assignments together, I was glad that I found someone whom I knew there.
 
 
 Of course, I was scared and worried that it could all go wrong. But after going there, I realised it was different. All the girls got along well with each other and I was happy. I made several friends; it almost reminded me of my college days. The only difference was that we were interested in the same boy (laughs). Initially, I had stage fright, but later, I got used to it. After a point, we didn’t bother about it and began to talk to each other.
 
 
 In the beginning, it was all fun, but it did take a serious turn as it progressed. Initially, we were excited about seeing Arya and Sangitha ma’am. But as the days passed, I developed feelings for Arya. But we, too, were like the audience, as we didn’t know what would happen next. The finale was a big twist even for us. But I take everything positively. The positive thing is that during this entire process, my brother and I became closer… he was proud of me. Even though I didn’t marry Arya, I earned the respect of my family and my fans. This made me realise that my family will always stand by me, no matter what.
 
 
 At first, all of us saw him as an actor. But later, he became one among us. He understood and respected our feelings. He didn’t have an attitude and was down-to-earth. When I asked him to propose to me for fun, initially, he did it. At that moment, I felt this might lead somewhere. I made a lot of efforts to impress him and he enjoyed all of that. Even when I made mistakes, he used to motivate me. I honestly thought he cared about me, and that he was very genuine. 
 
 
 After some tasks, everyone thought I would get the Token of Love because I used to do things differently. I got so close to getting it several times, but never got one. But it didn’t matter to me as I knew that I found a place in his heart and that was important 
 for me.
 
 
 In the finale, when Arya had the last Token of Love, I thought he will select a girl. When he announced that he wasn’t ready with his decision, I was very confused. In fact, Agatha, Susanna and I were taken aback. It took a long time for me to process this ending. Initially, I felt that he, too, started this on a fun note. But it became serious after he met all our families. Arya must have felt that he would not be able to do it on television and it should be more personal. I respect his decision as I knew that it would be difficult for him to do all of this in front of the camera.
 
 
 He gave it to me and told me that he know that I’ve always wanted this but never got an opportunity to receive it. He said he wanted me to experience this feeling. So, it was more like a gift or a gesture of love and affection. When I finally got the token, I wanted to show it to everyone and that’s why I posted it online.
 
 
 I didn’t have an issue with anybody. There are different kinds of people in this world and we cannot go about fighting with all of them just because they don’t get along well with you. I had my own gang with whom I was very close — like  , Swetha, Gomathi and Ancy. Initially, I had a wrong opinion about  , but later I realised that she is also a good person.
 
 
 I am still in touch with him. But let’s see… he is busy with his work and I should also concentrate on my career. If something blossoms in the future, I will be happy.
 
 
 I always thought one must have some attitude and we must be stylish for people to accept us. But in the show, you are there for three months, so you cannot act, as your true nature gets revealed at some point in time. When I came to know people like me for what I am, it gave me confidence. My life has changed so much because of this show. I should thank my friends — Sriya, Swetha and a few others — who kept motivating me. My father was worried about how I will stay alone for such a long time in Jaipur, because I get homesick. But these girls were there for me. I am glad that I made friends for life.
 
 
 
 
 
