NEW DELHI: A 43-year-old businessman-cum-local-politician was chased, stopped and shot dead in a case of apparent   by an occupant of another car being driven rashly on northwest Delhi’s   at around 3 am on Tuesday.

 The victim,  , was returning to his house in east Delhi along with his nephew after attending a wedding in Karnal. The assailants fled from the spot and are yet to be traced. The nephew said he begged motorists to stop and help but no one did. Finally, a person returning from the same wedding saw them on the road, stopped and drove the victim to a hospital.
 
 Police said they had received a PCR call from Mehra’s nephew, the sole eyewitness to the murder, and had rushed to the spot. But on finding nothing there, they went to a private hospital where Mehra had been declared brought dead by doctors.
 
 
 
 
 Mehra was a property dealer in Geeta Colony and a worker with a political party. He lived with his parents and his younger brother and his family. His family said he and his wife had not been living together for the last four years though they were not divorced. His wife is a sub-inspector with crime branch.
 
 The victim’s family told TOI they had been invited to two weddings. “We got two invitations, one for   and the other for Karnal. At first I was to go to the latter while Vinod had to go to Karkardooma, but the plan changed at the last moment. He said he would get back in time and my last conversation with him was just an hour before we got a call about his death,” said Vinod’s weeping father,  , who also claimed that he suspected the role of someone known to them. Police said they were probing all angles.
 
 Mehra’s 15-year-old nephew, who accompanied his uncle to almost every social gathering, said Mehra had been singing along with his favourite song on the radio. “We were driving back home when I saw an   car that was being driven rashly, but both me and Vinod mama ignored it. We had a good time at the party and were excited about sharing the details with the others, but the next second the same car came from the right-hand side and almost brushed our vehicle. Mama almost lost control of the car and was furious,” he said.
 
 The nephew said he had asked Mehra not to stop or say anything to the men as they looked drunk. “They were all hurling abuse at us and continuously telling us to stop our car. I asked mama to drive fast in order to avoid these men, but they chased us for over two kilometres and finally intercepted us when we reached the Bhalswa flyover. The driver got out of the car and asked us to step out too,” said the boy.
 
 “He then asked one of the other occupants to get ‘it’,” said the boy, adding that he was scared about what “it” was and begged the men not to harm them. “But the man, who couldn’t even stand straight, was handed a pistol which he aimed at mama and, before I could do anything, fired at his chest,” he said, adding he started screaming for help.
 
 Vinod’s mother said she was the first person the boy had called as the phones of other family members were unreachable. “By the time we reached the hospital, my son had already died,” she said. DCP (northwest) Aslam Khan said police have registered a case. Police said there were no CCTV cameras on the Ring Road so they were scanning footage from adjoining areas to ascertain which car was used in the commission of the crime.
 
