LUCKNOW: A day after Dalit law student Dilip Saroj’s died in a mercilessly assault,   on Monday held   in various parts of the city demanding immediate arrest of the  , Vijay Shankar Singh Chauhan.

 Members of the Samajwadi Yuvjan Sabha (SYS) and All India Students Association (AISA) assembled near Bank Road to organise a procession against the law and order situation in the state, but later turned violent and hurled stones at passing vehicles.
 
 As tempers ran high, the agitators stopped a city bus and asked the passengers to alight, after which they torched the vehicle. On getting information, a police team led by SSP Akash Kulhari and PAC personnel, who were deployed near Laxmi Talkies, rushed to the spot and dispersed the agitators.
 
 By the time two fire tenders arrived on the sport, the roadways bus had reduced to ashes. The protesters later marched to the Collectorate and gheraoed district magistrate Suhas LY’s residence demanding compensation for Saroj’s family. The students dispersed after the DM came out of his residence with the deceased’s brother and assured of appropriate action in the case.
 
 As part of the protest, students of Iswar Saran Degree College organised a candle march from the college till Balson Crossing to pay tribute to the deceased student. The students also raised slogans against the “insensitive approach of state government regarding killing of Dalit students”.
 
 The Student Federation of India (SFI) organsied a condolence meet at Allahabad University against the killing. SFI secretary Suyash Maurya said “the Yogi government has become insensitive to the killing of innocent people in the state”.
 
 A delegation of Samajwadi Party (SP) leaders, led by former MP Shailendra and ex-MLA Satyaveer Munna, met the additional director general of police and handed him a memorandum demanding immediate arrest of the main accused.
 
 Shailendra said the spot where the dalit student was killed was only about 200 metres from the office of Allahabad SSP. “This shows the lackadaisical attitude of the police. Top officials have shifted the blame to their subordinates by suspending outpost in-charge and constables,” he charged.
 
 Congress party workers, led by Mukund Tiwari and Haseeb Ahmad, raised slogans at the Collectorate demanding Chauhan’s arrest. They lambasted the state government over law and order situation. “The killing is a blot on claim of good governance and law and order in the state,” Tiwari said.
 
 The CPM district wing too convened a meeting to condemn the killing and demanded immediate arrest of the remaining accused.
 
 Teams of police, PAC and RAF have been deployed near AU, its affiliated colleges, hostels and areas where students preparing for competitive exams live.
 
 Saroj had slipped into coma after being assaulted by some people on Friday night in Old Katra locality. He died on Sunday sparking all-round protests and condemnation.
 
 
