AHMEDABAD: A 58-year-old man was shot dead on the premises of Vishweshwar Mahadev in   on Saturday morning. The victim, Suresh Shah, a resident of Sparsh Avenue, Madhav Crossroads, was associated with transport business and had got a contract from the   (FCI), said investigators.

 It is suspected that Shah was gunned down by a contract killer over business rivalry. The assailant used a 12-bore cartridge to kill him. Vasna police and the city crime branch are investigating the murder. 
 
 According to a complaint filed by Shah’s son Kush, Shah had started off from his residence at about 11.15am to reach Vishweshwar Mahadev, located at   near Jivraj Mehta Hospital. That temple visit was part of Shah’s routine. At about 12.40pm, Kush received a call from a relative informing him that an ambulance was reaching the temple because his father was not well. When Kush reached the temple, he learnt that his father had been shot from close range.
 
 “The assailant had targeted Shah when he was near the Lakshminarayan temple on the premises and shot him in the middle of the chest,” said an investigator. “It is suspected that Shah collapsed on the spot and also sustained head injuries. A few galvanized pipes have been found near the spot but forensic experts ruled out their use in the shooting. The injuries on his face and body might have been caused by his fall.”
 
 Officials said that Shah, originally from Khadia, had recently shifted to Vasna and was living with his wife and son. His daughter Krishna had married last month. His son owns a plastic factory near Aslali. Shah was the son-in-law of Kokila and Ramesh Shah, Congress leaders from Khadia. Shah had been the president of Khadia ward in the past. He, however, had not been active in politics for long, said party members.
 
 City police officials said that a dog squad was deployed as they suspect that the assailant or assailants had arrived in a vehicle which was parked outside the temple lane. A man who had come to the bungalow opposite to the temple for a paint job had first spotted the body and had informed society officials. Police said that they are yet to get any CCTV footage from the scene.
 
 
