CHANDIGARH:   has decided to use drones to ensure no unauthorised residential clusters come up in future even as a state cabinet subcommittee is yet to take a call on the fate of unauthorised residential colonies. 

 Last year,   was the first to decide to use drones to take high-resolution imagery in Gurgaon, one of the largest tech hubs in the country, for regularisation of land records and prevent encroachments on government land. Haryana had launched the pilot project in Gurgaon, Karnal and   and it was to be replicated in other districts.
 
 Punjab too has decided to use technology to prevent encroachments on government land.  , additional chief secretary (housing) said the housing and urban development department has approached the Punjab Remote Sensing Centre, Ludhiana to carry out aerial surveys of illegal colonies. "It will be a part of the multi-pronged strategy to tighten the noose around such unapproved residential areas," she said.
 
 The images taken by the drones will then be tallied with the maps which have been digitised from the archival physical records to arrive at a final and a foolproof version. 
 
 
 
 The drones are being considered as they give a higher image quality as compared to satellite images.
 
 As per official records, there are over 4,000 unauthorised colonies in Punjab and, of these, 3,377 are located in the urban areas. During the previous opportunity given by the Punjab government to get unauthorized colonies regularised, 462 colonies got the goahead.
 
 “The regulatory mechanism is also being strengthened so that no new unauthorised colonies come up. Registration of property for these areas has been closed and in certain cases, police cases have also been got registered,” she added. A five-member subcommittee of Punjab council of ministers has been constituted to finalise legislation and policy for regularisation of unauthorised colonies in order to pave way for provision of basic amenities to the residents of these areas.
 
 “A comprehensive policy for regularising illegal colonies is under consideration and will be finalised in two months. It will ensure that people who have taken plots in such colonies are able to receive basic benefits. It will also ensure that further colonisation takes places only in a planned way and all required amenities are provided by the colonisers,” said Mahajan.
 
 Sources said the possibility of regularising individual plots only after the illegal colony is regularised is being considered. Earlier, the previous SAD-BJP government had allowed individual plot owners to get their property regularised. Promoters of unauthorised colonies that were constructed before April 1, 2013, and where 65% area had been built, could apply for regularisation.
 
 
 
