MUMBAI: A driver was arrested for masturbating after pulling up in a   in front of the wife of an actor close to her house near a school in   (East) around 11am on Monday. 

  The man managed to drive away before she could catch him, but she got the last four digits of the car's registration, 1985. Within hours of an FIR being lodged,  , 43, who works as a driver for a businessman in Vile Parle (East), was arrested from the area. He confessed after being tracked down with the help of CCTVs and details about the car owner provided by the RTO. 
 
 "After lodging the FIR at 4.15pm, the cops have nabbed the b*****d in 2 hrs flat... Hats off @MumbaiPolice... God forbid if at all such things happen, please go to the cops. Don't suffer. Speak up," the actor tweeted late on Monday.
 
 The actor's wife - herself a noted Marathi television actress - was standing close to her house near   when the incident happened. After learning about the incident, the actor tweeted to Mumbai police.
 
  Later, he visited the Vile Parle police station and lodged a complaint. "My wife was standing on the road close to our residential building when the accused in a BMW car parked around 100 feet from her. The entire incident occurred while my wife was speaking on her phone. The man unzipped his pant and masturbated in front of her," the actor said. The actor's wife threw a bottle at him, after which he sped off. 
 
 She appealed to women not to ignore such incidents and report them. The actor said he was especially angry since there are school girls in the area and the pervert must have done this to them as well.
 
 DCP   confirmed the arrest. Investigators are checking if Chaudhari, who is from  , has committed a similar offence in the past.
 
 "It has been a great effort by the cops in nabbing the accused in no time. The cops walked into my residence at 6.15pm with the accused's photo. My wife confirmed the identity," the actor told TOI. 
 
 Chaudhari has been booked under IPC section 509 (word, gesture or action intended to outrage modesty). He will be produced before the court on Tuesday.
 
 
