SHILLONG:   has visited most of the 45,000-odd households in her   constituency in the course of her door-to-door campaign and is still knocking on more doors in the run-up to the February 27 assembly polls. 

 A former professor of Mass Communication at the prestigious St Anthony's College, the state's IT minister Lyngdoh, perhaps the most 'IT-savvy' candidate - has the details of every voter in her constituency at the tip of her fingers.
 
 "I have a dedicated team of IT experts who help me maintain details of the voters," says Ampareen, a doctorate from the  , who is seeking re-election on a Congress ticket. On Sunday morning, Lyngdoh was already busy visiting houses in her constituency.
 
 Daughter of popular Congress leader late PG Marbaniang and sister to former minister RG Lyngdoh, Ampareen is the most well-known woman politician in the matrilineal state by far. Lyngdoh was the only female legislator in the state assembly during the 2008-2013 term. 
 
 "I have lived up to my assurances 100%," the three-time lawmaker says, while elaborating on the developmental works she has achieved, which include making provisions for drinking water, construction of roads, footpaths and other infrastructure.
 
 "People have been overwhelmingly welcoming me wherever I go," she says, adding that she makes it a point to meet almost all of the electoratex in her constituency.
 
 Admitting that IT has not been high on the priority list of the government due to other pressing issues, the IT minister, who also holds the urban affairs portfolio among others, says she has been steadfastly trying to improve this sector in consultation with the chief minister.
 
 Undeterred by an ongoing   investigation against her in connection with a scam in the process of recruitment of teachers in the state during her previous tenure as minister of higher and technical education, Ampareen is confident that the law will take its own course and her innocence will be proved in the final count.
 
 Promising to take up several other developmental works in her constituency if voted back to the assembly, the suave legislator shakes hands with a voter, making the ultimate appeal that a politician can make in a poll-bound state - "Please vote for me". 
 
 
