CHANDIGARH: The   would soon be CAT III-B compliant allowing aircraft to land under 50-metre visibility.

 
 All stakeholders, including the Union ministry of civil aviation,   (IAF) and the   (AAI), have agreed for installation of the much-needed advance instrument landing system (ILS) at the airport.
 
 
  
  
 
 A formal statement regarding the installation of ILS (CAT III-B) was made before the Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday by the agreement division of the ministry of civil aviation through assistant solicitor general of India Chetan Mittal during the resumed hearing of a petition related to facilities at the airport.
 
 
 Presently, an aircraft requires at least 350-metre visibility to land safely at the airport but due to climatic conditions, most of the flights at the Chandigarh airport remain grounded from December-mid to January-mid.
 
 
 According to the proposal, the installation work would be undertaken by an agency appointed by the IAF and the AAI would bear the entire cost.
 
 
 The main runway at the airport has two sides — runway 29 and runway 11. As per the proposal, runway 29 would remain CAT II compliant, while the runway 11 would be upgraded to CAT III-B.
 
 
 At the high court, Mittal said a meeting was held on December 1, 2015, between the senior officials of the ministry, IAF, AAI and DGCA in which AAI had projected that CAT III-B needs to be installed at the Chandigarh airport. On this it was decided to conduct a joint study to check the feasibility of installing the advance ILS on runway.
 
 
 A division bench comprising Justice A K Mittal and Justice   asked the AAI to come up with the final plan regarding installation of the ILS-IIIB by April 5.
 
 
 ‘CAT III to help get more flights’
 
 
 Suneel Dutt, CEO, Chandigarh International Airport, said advanced ILS is a benchmark of availability of multiple facilities at any airport and would help in getting more domestic and international flights.
 
 
 The IAF, which controls the runway and the air traffic control (ATC) at the local airport, has planned to install ILS (CAT II) under its Maintenance of Air Field Infrastructure (MAFI) project. At present, there are 28 flights, including three international, that operate daily from the airport. In December-January, 5-10 flights remained cancelled, while 12-18 delayed daily.
 
 
 On some occasions, the flights were diverted to Delhi airport for landing after the poor visibility did not allow the pilots to land here.
 
 
 There was a long pending demand for installation of advance navigation aide.
 
