Bengali theatre group   is heading for a grand reunion. After almost 25 years,   is all set to come back on stage as an actor in an adaptation of  , called Don, directed by Sujan Mukhopadhyay. While Sujan’s wife, Nivedita Mukhopadhyay, is part of the cast, his son Dayad is a part of the musical team too.
“Last time I was on stage as an actor was probably in early ’90s and I was not enjoying myself as an actor. I never acted on stage after that,” said Suman, who introduced a Tritiyo Sutra in early 2000. “This one is special. Many years ago, dad (Arun Mukhopadhyay) used to stage a play adapted from   Quixote, Dukhi Mukhi Jodhha. Dad used to play Don and now I am playing it and Sujan is directing it,” he added.
 Besides Suman, the patriarch of the group, Arun, too will appear in a small role, the director informed. “He is 81 now. He will appear in a guest role in the first four or five shows,” Sujan said. Satish Shaw will be seen as Sancho Panza.
 
  
 And how is the preparation going? “We have very little time as the first four shows will be staged in three days between April 29 and May 1,” the director said. “It is an enormous project. There will be live music. Though the songs are composed by my father and Suman, Prabuddha Banerjee is reconstructing the music and he will play in the first a few shows. My son, Dayad, will be playing the guitar. Sudarshan Chakraborty is doing the choreography. Moreover, the play features many characters, so it is a huge cast. Now you can imagine how busy we are,” he said.
 It is also an expensive project. While Sujan’s last play   cost him aroung Rs 1.5 lakh, Don’s budget is nothing less than Rs 5 lakh. “Magon Raja is my Lakshmi. But with Don, we are spending almost all the money we earned from Magon,” Sujan said.
 Though he followed his father’s adaptation, Sujan has tweaked the script to make it more contemporary.
 Earlier, the role of Don was supposed to be played by Anirban Bhattacharya and Kanchan Mullick was to play Sancho Panza. Later, the cast was restructured due to time constraints from both the actors.
 
 
