Pune: Families from the financially weaker sections of the city can hope to have their own homes next year. Over 3,500 dwellings under the affordable housing scheme have got a green signal from the state. The civic body will give its land for these houses, many of which will be completed by 2019.

 “These houses will be built under the Pradhan Mantri Aawas Yojana (PMAY). The open civic plots will be given for these houses. Over 3,500 dwellings will be built on PMC land,” mayor Mukta Tilak said.
 
 She said the state government has recently given the green signal for the project. Apart from the PMC land plots, private developers will also build affordable houses on private land plots. Nearly 6,000 houses are in the offing for needy people.
 
 As per PMC officials, the civic body has got nearly 1.5 lakh applications to stake claims on the houses. Applications were sought both online and offline.
 
 “The allotment of houses will be done through a lottery system. The dates will soon be declared. We are hoping to provide some houses under this scheme by the end of next year,” said an anonymous official 
 
 Under PMAY, the union government provides help to urban local bodies for in-situ rehabilitation of slum dwellers. The land is used as a resource through private participation, credit-linked subsidy, affordable housing and subsidy for construction of beneficiary-led individual house.
 
 According to the union government’s target, over two lakh houses will be built under this project across India. These approved projects would be executed with assistance from the central and state governments and contribution.by beneficiaries. 
 
 The construction cost of of these houses will be in the range of Rs15 lakh to Rs30 lakh with the average cost of construction coming to Rs18 lakh per house. As many as 352 housing projects will be executed in 53 cities of 17 states with an investment of over Rs 38,000 crore.
 
 A study on housing conducted by the non-governmental organisation (NGO) Mashal for the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) highlighted the lack of affordable houses in the city. It stated there was a shortfall of 2.5 to 3 lakh affordable housing units, which was likely to double in the next few years.
 
 
