AHMEDABAD: As Shabana Shaikh, 20, puts on her blue uniform and manoeuvres the school van through busy city roads, several surprised male drivers turn around to see whether a woman was actually driving a commercial vehicle!

 “Such glances come with the job. Earlier, I used to get a bit conscious but now I take it in my stride,” said Shabana, a Danilimda resident.
 
 A class 10 pass, she is the eldest of three sisters. She says that her family appreciates the job that brings in the money to support the household. She has to drive on some of the busiest roads of the city as she ferries schoolchildren from   to Bodakdev and back.
 
 Shaikh is among around 20 women drivers who work with a private fleet operator providing vehicles and the workforce to run   and AMTS services. The operator also runs vans for some city-based schools. 
 
 Five of these 20 women are already driving school vans. They are also getting trained with another group of 15 to drive public transport buses by the end of this year or early next year.
 
 Pankaj Gandhi, managing director of the fleet operations company, said that in a matter of two years, they want to induct a total of 200 women drivers for their bus services, including public transport buses in Ahmedabad and Surat.
 
 “We wanted to launch the project a decade back but we could realize it only now with availability of qualified women drivers,” he said. 
 
 “Women drivers are excellent because of their greater concern for road safety. The schools are all praise for the women who drive their buses,” said Gandhi.
 
 This group of women drivers includes 20-year-old Shaikh and 39-year-old Raksha Parmar who is among the eldest drivers. 
 
 “Earlier, I used to work at an Ayurvedic clinic in Isanpur,” Parmar said. “Before driving commercial vehicles, my only experience as a driver was that of driving my scooter.” 
 
 She said that it was one of her friends who had motivated her to take up driving as a vocation. “Initially, I was apprehensive but gradually acquired enough confidence to get a  . My husband supports me in my effort,” Parmar said.
 
 Shabnam Shaikh, 22, a resident of Vatva, got into commercial driving through a city-based NGO. “I used to drive cars but the bus is altogether a different beast,” she said. 
 
 “I am enjoying the training with BRTS buses. I am currently driving a school van. Of course, the tough city roads ensure that you never keep your eyes off the road till you reach the destination,” Shaikh said. She has studied up to class 8 and is the daughter of a factory worker. 
 
 Her family’s need for money drove  , 28, a resident of Odhav, to became a driver. She used to do sewing earlier but found an opportunity to learn driving. She is one of the 15 women currently training with the BRTS depots in Ahmedabad. She is expected to join the fleet in 2019.
 
 “Surely there will be comparisons with male drivers and I am ready for the challenge,” she said. 
 
 “I believe that women are more cautious while driving and can make city roads safer. I would like to see more women drivers instill a sense of safety in commuters of the city even as they provide us a job opportunity of a bus driver,” Rekha Kahar said. 
 
 She added that many public transport services across the world have women drivers.
 
 
