Latika Nath, the first woman wildlife biologist in India to work on tigers, has penned a book titled
 , along with her cousin  . Published by Academic Foundation, the book is a coming together of two women, and examines their lives in two different cities, joined by the love of their brother and of nature. Latika – a conservation ecologist and photographer shares her images of landscape and wildlife from across India in a book where Shloka, a journalist and writer, examines one of literature's most rewarding and enduring themes: our relationship with Nature. It speaks of breathtaking vistas and mythical creatures. The book is a testament to that which endures, to the wonder of life. 

 In an exclusive interview with TOI Books, the remarkable ecologist   talks of her passion for photography, wildlife and literature. 
 
 1.
 
 
 
 was an attempt to share Wild India as I see it. It is dedicated to my late cousin and the writings by Shloka examine the relationships between Humans and nature. The coffee table book has photographs that relate a story – each one complete in itself. Portraits and landscapes highlight the exquisite beauty of our country and the rich heritage we are blessed to share. Through the photographs, we have tried to engage people and arouse in them the desire to explore, conserve and admire the rich diversity of wildlife and landscapes of India.
 
 I have worked on academic texts in the past but I feel that books like these are very important for engaging the interest of people in the natural world and exposing people to the incredibly rich natural heritage of our country.
 
  2.
 
 
 "Two roads diverged in a wood, and I—
 
 I took the one less traveled by,
 
 And that has made all the difference."
 
 -- Robert Frost
 
 The writings of Wordsworth, Longfellow, Emerson, Keats, and Kipling inspire me, and not to forget the famous poem "The Tyger" by  . 
 
 I also grew up reading the classics and books by Steinbeck, Durrell, Herriot, and books like 
 , 
 , 
  
 , 
 , 
 , 
  and 
 -- all based on themes connected with the outdoors and animals. I have also grown up cherishing the words of Chief Seattle’s 
 .
 
  3. 
 
 
  The love and passion for nature and wildlife definitely come from within. Sometimes when people spend time with us and see things in a new light through the eyes of people who are passionate about wildlife, they too develop a love for nature. I have seen this many many times. People who have never had the opportunity to bird watch, garden or photograph wildlife have become very passionate about their commitment to nature conservation and spend as much time as possible in the outdoors learning and absorbing and experiencing new things.
 
  4. 
 
 
  Poaching is still rampant. It cannot be described as a nuisance but is a very real war being waged by the underworld on nature focusing on the short-term material gain at the cost of the long-term survival of mankind. The World Economic Forum confirmed that Wildlife Trade generates USD 23 billion in illicit revenue annually. This is not something that we can ignore or forget. This is a war to be fought at the same scale as wars against trade in illegal weapons or illegal drugs.
 
  Governments need to take action and extend cooperation beyond political boundaries to combat this. Public awareness needs to be raised at all levels – from policymakers to school children. Funds need to be made available and training needs to be given to enforcement agencies across the board. The media too needs to help by understanding that this is the need of the hour and that it is imperative that responsible reporting be used to combat these crimes and engaging articles and campaigns be used to garner public support.
 
  5. 
 
 
  The water security of our nation is one of the most important issues for the sustainable growth and survival of India. Most rivers originate in our protected areas and wilderness areas. By practicing scientific conservation and management of our wilderness spaces and ensuring the survival of all species in a food web, we will ensure the survival of its habitat and indirectly ensure water conservation. For this, the most important thing is greater awareness amongst our leaders and the political will to recognize that the development we need to promote today incorporates environmental conservation as a fundamental premise of all project design. 
 
 6. 
 
 
  I have always encountered disbelief that I am the person who does the research, works in the field, takes the photographs and yes it is always about – but you don’t look the part. What is the part? I am happy to look good, dress well, enjoy culture and art, and have interests that are very diverse and not focused exclusively on wildlife. My many avatars and interests add the variety and spice to my life. This is reflected in my book Hidden India where each page brings a surprise and a new story.
 
  7. 
 
 
  My family has always been interested in the outdoors and been one where hunting, shooting, camping, photography, horse riding were all a huge part of your life. While it is a hobby for my family, for me it is my passion and profession. My father, Prof. Lalit M Nath was a special advisor to Mrs. Indira Gandhi for 19 years and member-secretary of the Indian Board of Wildlife. He is a doctor and retired as director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences. As a child, I grew up around either doctors or conservationists including Indira Gandhi, Dr. Salim Ali, Billy Arjun Singh, Fatheh Singh Rathore, HS Panwar, Dr. MK RanjitSinh, Dr. JC Daniel. I decided at the age of 7 that I wanted to be an ecologist and am blessed with parents who supported and encouraged me every step of the way. I chose my dream and it became theirs too.
 
  8.
 
 
  Shloka is my much beloved and very talented younger cousin. Over the past few years, we have spent much time together, exploring new places and species. The loss of Kaveesh, our brother, bound us closer and we decided to work on this book to share our world and emotions, honoring his passions and dreams.
 
 9. 
 
 
  Humans are not the normal predators. In the jungles, most predators will fight fiercely to protect their homes and habitat. We seem to be the only species who will destroy their only home. Our oceans and air are polluted, we destroy our forests, scatter plastics, create industries that emit toxic waste and gases, pillage mineral resources, contaminate and dam our rivers, and wage wars killing our own species on an unprecedented scale. This does not happen in the natural world.
 
  We need to learn the laws of the jungle. We are alive because of nature and mother earth and to stay alive we need to protect her. 
 
 
  Kipling. 
 
 
