Shimla: The Himachal Pradesh high court on Wednesday directed the commissioner of Shimla Municipal Corporation to immediately disconnect water supply of hotels which have not cleared their municipal dues.

 There are 224 defaulter hotels, which have been allotted more than 527 water connections, within the municipal limits of Shimla town, the division bench of acting Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Ajay Mohan Goel was informed during a hearing on Wednesday on the issue of acute water shortage in Shimla.
 
 Amicus curiae K D Shreedhar vehemently argued that the water supply to such hoteliers should be disconnected forthwith.
 
 However, the high court added that if any hotelier volunteers to deposit the amount within two days, the process should be halted for the same duration.
 
 Shreedhar also pointed out a large number of houses, which are being operated as home stays, should be impleaded as a party to the case.
 
 Director (tourism) should be impleaded as party to furnish particulars of home stays, he added. On this, the high court directed the registry to carry out necessary corrections in the memo of parties.
 
 The high court directed the director (tourism) to furnish these details by Thursday and asked him to personally remain present in the court.
 
 Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur presided reviewed the supply of drinking water to Shimla town. The Shimla Municipal Corporation received 21.75 million litres per day (MLD) water on Tuesday and this was distributed to Bharari, Ruldu Bhatta, Kaithu, Anadale, Summer hill, Totu, Manjhiyat, Kachhi Ghati, Boleauganj, Tutikandi, Kanlog, Nabha and Fagli areas on Wednesday. Some 2.25 lakh litres was distributed through 27 tankers at 63 points in the town.
 
 Thakur also reviewed the current condition of various water supply schemes: There are 9,590 drinking water supply schemes in Himachal out of which 350 were critically affected and 1,131 were mildly affected. The corporation has identified 11 places in Shimla to instal hand pumps and work has been started.
 
 
