Santiago is a backwater where the phones don’t work, taxis are as rare as faithful husbands, a cable to Europe costs an arm and a leg and a letter takes five days to turn up,” said an Italian journalist who wrote a series of articles to criticize the decision to award the   hosting rights to Chile. Naturally, the Chilean pride was hurt. After all, this was an event of massive importance for   which had to pick itself up from the 1960 Valdivia earthquake, the most powerful one ever recorded.

 
 
 So when Italy met Chile in the second game of the tournament, no one expected it to be a friendly affair. In what came to be known as the ‘Battle of Santiago’, football took a backseat. A foul within 12 seconds from the start was a sign of things as the whistle of English referee Ken Aston clearly had an overworked day. Two Italian players, Giorgio Ferrini and Mario David were sent off while Chile miraculously kept all 11 on the field in a feisty contest which saw several punches and flying boots. The game stopped for nearly eight minutes as Ferrini was not willing to leave the field and Chilean policemen had to drag him off it. “I wasn’t refereeing a football match, I was acting as an umpire in military manoeuvres,” Aston would say afterwards. The 2-0 win would open Chile’s way to the quarterfinals as a bruised Italy exited.
 
 On to brighter things; this was Brazilian Garrincha’s World Cup. After Pele got injured in the second game and was ruled out for the rest of the campaign, Garrincha (also known as the Little Bird) stepped up scoring two goals each in the quarterfinal and semifinal to give Brazil a shot at defending their title. The magician with bent legs, arguably the best dribbler of all time, tormented defenders as England and hosts Chile proved no match for the Brazilians.
 
 Garrincha, however, got the marching orders in the semifinal but his suspension for the final was overturned with the Brazilian prime minister Tancredo Neves pulling the strings. Despite going behind early in the title clash against Czechoslovakia, Brazil, with Zito and Vava leading the charge, rallied to win 3-1 and became the first team after Italy to retain the trophy.
 
 The 1962 edition saw the average goals coming down to less than three (2.78), a sign of more robust defensive tactics coming into the global game. The absence of finalists of 1958 Sweden was a surprise as they failed to qualify for Chile.
 
 
