NEW DELHI:   chief minister N Chandrababu   met Prime Minister   on Friday amid a perceived strain in ties with the Centre and sought help for fulfilling promises made during the bifurcation of the state.

 The TDP chief who met Modi almost after a year said, "The PM has assured me that he would look into the pending issues." The CM is seeking a faster response from the Centre’s on assistance for rebuilding the state with regard to revenue losses after Hyderabad, the hub of commercial activities, went to Telangana.
 
 With assembly elections in Andhra due in 2019 alongside the Lok Sabha polls, Naidu is expected to raise the pitch with the Centre over delivering on its promises in order to deflect any anti-incumbency mood in the state.
 
 Asked if delay in getting central aid would affect TDP’s ties with NDA ally BJP, the CM said the Centre had TDP ministers and his dispensation in Andhra Pradesh had representatives of the saffron party. "We will consistently follow up, and that is the only solution for Andhra and there are no issues with the alliance."
 
 However, TDP sources said Naidu would wait for the Centre to deliver on the state’s demands before taking a stand on the Modi government.
 
 Andhra continued to depend heavily on agriculture and lagged behind other states in   in the services sector, he told reporters after the meeting. Contribution of services sector to Andhra's GSDP in 2016-2017 stood at 46 %, whereas it was 64.64 % in Karnataka, 62.56 % in Telangana, and 56.88 % in Tamil Nadu. It was way behind the all-India average of 53.66 %, Naidu said, blaming lack of urbanisation for the poor performance of the services sector.
 
 The TDP chief said the contribution of the agriculture sector to state’s GSDP was 31.77 %, while it was just 15.34% in Telangana, 11.39 % in Tamil Nadu, and 11.68 % in Karnataka. "Even in terms of per capita income we are the lowest. Due to unscientific bifurcation, AP has suffered badly. Whatever we have got so far is not at all sufficient," he said.
 
 Naidu said he requested the PM to release the pending Rs 16,447 crore through NABARD and other arrangements to fund projects in the ratio of 90:10 between the Centre and state under the Special Assistance Measure. "We also requested for immediate release of Rs 3450 crore pending for Polavaram project," he added.
 
 "The Centre has released only Rs 3,979 crore towards bridging resource gap against Rs 16,078 crore. There have been several discussions in the past and we now requested the Prime Minister to sort this issue," he said adding that he also sought early resolution on setting up of a railway zone in Visakhapatnam and cracker and petroleum complex in Kakinada.
 
 
