GAYA: Notwithstanding claims of “solid leads” on the basis of CCTV footage by police, sources said probe into the low intensity blast near the world-famous Mahabodhi Temple and recovery of three improvised explosive devices (IEDs) from places close to the Tibetan monastery would be a long-drawn exercise and early breakthrough may elude the investigators. 

 Sources said three men are seen in the CCTV footage carrying bags similar to the ones in which the   were kept. Similarity of bags, according to experts, may be an indicator, but not conclusive proof. A senior IPS officer, who earlier worked for a specialised investigating agency, said the value of bags should not be underestimated. Same brand items, including bags, have distinctive features as well, he said.
 
 “Trained personnel, after magnified views and foolproof analytical tools, can say with precision whether the bags spotted in the CCTV footage were the same recovered by the police or not,” said the officer. The officer, who is posted outside Bihar, said he was not aware whether   police have the skill and the gadgets required for investigating such details.
 
 “The inference so far has been that the blast was designed more to create panic than cause collateral damage,” he said.
 
 Questioning the panic theory, another senior police officer said the fact that the explosives were placed at crowded places proved it was not for fun. That the explosives were recovered before actual explosion is an altogether different matter, said the officer. “Had the explosion been successful, it would have caused great damage in a radius of about 25 metres, which is very big for crowded place,” he added.
 
 If sources are to be believed, preliminary findings have left the investigators somewhat confused. From one angle, it appears to be the handiwork of highly skilled IED experts. From another angle, it shows a novice hand. Simultaneous use of timer as well as pressure technique needs special skill. But when it comes to the choice of chemicals, amateurish hand in mixing ammonium nitrate with chloride is discernible.
 
 Public and political pressure for early results may be counterproductive. In 2013 too, real breakthrough came more than three months later and that too accidentally following the death of a bomb carrier in Patna on October 27, 2013.
 
 Retired IG M A Kazmi said the investigating officers should be given sufficient time for result delivery. “It is not an open and shut case. Media, too, is expected to eschew sensationalism and give the leeway needed by investigators,” Kazmi added. 
 
 
