AHMEDABAD: Ahmedabad police is all set to get   for transferring high risk accused — including terror suspects,   who have escaped from police custody earlier — to courts and jails outside the state. 

 Senior police officials said that the vehicles will not only be sabotage proof but will also have washrooms and a pantry for non-stop journeys. 
 
  
  The prison van is designed by deputy commissioner of police, crime branch, Deepan Bhadran. “He claimed that the armoured vehicle will be first of a kind in a country to have washrooms and will be deployed for transferring high risk prisoners,” added DCP Bhadran.
 
 “With separate cells for each prisoner and equipped with biometric lock system we will get one van each to transfer two prisoners at a time, four prisoners and one for transferring eight to ten prisoners at a time. The air-conditioned vans will not have glass windows to prevent one anyone from looking inside,” added Bhadran.
 
 Bhadran added that after studying different models of such vans they have made their own design. “The total project will cost us around Rs 2 crore and will be completed within six to seven months. We have already engaged experts to execute our design,” said Bhadran.
 
 Crime branch authorities had written to higher officials seeking such armoured vehicles for transfer of high-risk prisoners. 
 
 In last decade, more than 400 prisoners escape from police custody. Most of these escaped on the pretext of going to the toilet. Moreover, long-distance travel for transferring terror suspects lodged in   to places Delhi, Jabalpur, Bhopal, Indore made the journeys risky.
 
 Inspector Kiran Chaudhary, who is looking after the project, said the vans will not only be used to transfer prisoners out of town but also during for production at local courts. 
 
 “The vans will require fewer cops to take prisoners to courts and will not allow the accused to come out of the van, which will be biometrically locked, reducing the prisoners chances of escape,” added inspector Chaudhary.
 
 
