KOLKATA: It took 72 hours for a specially trained 10-member team from Kolkata Municipal Corporation   to remove a 40-year-old banyan tree from Pratapaditya Road. The tree cutters exercised caution as the uprooted tree had dashed against a three-storey building.

 The squall that hit Kolkata on Tuesday evening took a heavy toll on city’s greenery, uprooting over 220 full grown trees. The sense of loss is more acute this time as a majority of the trees that have toppled are mighty banyan that are otherwise considered to be very stable trees.
  
  
 “Nearly half the trees that have been uprooted are banyan. At one swipe, the storm dealt a mighty blow to the city’s banyan population. It has also put a question mark on the sturdiness of banyan trees,” said a   parks department official. Some other species of trees which have been uprooted by the squall include sirish, kadam, krishnachura and radhachura.
 
 With several other nor’westers to go, the effects of the storm has left civic officials worried about the fate of the remaining banyan population in the city. Horticulturist   felt the reason why the banyans perished was not aweakness that had developed in the trees but unscientific pruning.
 
 “I have visited several spots where banyan trees were uprooted in the Tuesday evening storm. I found most of them had become top-heavy due to unscientific pruning or absolute lack of pruning. In cases pruning was carried out, it was at the behest of local cable operators. As a result, the trees have become lopsided. It is this instability that proved fatal,” Samanta said.
 
 An examination carried out by a group of KMC parks department officials revealed that species of trees like banyan, kadam, radhachura and krishnachura were randomly planted on pavements of major thoroughfares which were later concretized in the name of beautification.
 
 “Rampant concretization without proper supervision by a horticulturist weakened the roots of these trees. Several of these trees would have been uprooted even if the storm wasn’t as ferocious as this one,” said an official.
 
 Taking a lesson from the squall, the KMC parks department has decided to select species of trees which will fit the conditions required for healthy growth. “We are considering chhatim, jarul, neem or some species of fruit bearing trees instead of kadam, banyan or sirish to compensate the loss,” said a KMC parks department official.
 
 
