The revenue officials preventing a private school management from felling down an old tree on its premises has created a widespread debate on the norms to be followed by the officials concerned on such occasions.

 A couple of days ago the revenue officials, on an alert from a city-based activist, had prevented the management of the CSI All Saints Girls High School at Puthur from cutting down an old tree on its premises.
 
 Interestingly, there aren’t any rules preventing tree-felling in a private property except for five scheduled tree species under the Forest Act. Moreover, Rain tree (Samanea saman), which was cut in the school, is not a scheduled tree and no permission is required to cut it.
 
 In many cases, the activists were instrumental in saving trees on public places from felling. But intruding into the rights of a private property owner in managing the green cover is unfortunate, say environmentalists. The school management decided to fell down the tree because the old tree has been posing a danger to the students.
 
 "The withered branches fall down even during a light wind posing a danger to the students playing under the tree. The school management will be held responsible for negligence if any untoward incident happened and that is why we decided to cut it down. No one would think of conservation at that time," said a staff of the school. "Ignorance on the part of the officials and the activist has to be blamed for creating such a mess," said associate professor of zoology, National College Trichy, V Gokula.
 
 "We dictate terms in private property but we often fail to prevent large scale tree-felling on road sides in the name of highway expansion," conservation scientist K Kumaraguru from the Biodiversity Conservation Foundation said.
 
 Refusing to take up such claims, M Sekaran, president of Thaneer, a city-based voluntary organisation, said that a school may be in a private property but it has to be considered a public place as it accommodates children from various places. "We have no intentions to dictate terms to anyone but have been only trying to save the green cover of the city that has been losing in large-scale in recent times," he said.
 
 
