Nashik: The 101st foundation day of Gokhale Education Society (GES) was celebrated on Monday on the premises of R H Sapat Engineering College on College Road. Former president of the University Grants Commission (UGC) Arun Nigawekar, scientists Raghunath Mashelkar and Anil Kakodkar, religious leader Swami Janardandas and a host of other personalities from the field of education attended the event named ‘Shatakpurti’ (completion of centenary). 

 In his keynote address Mashelkar called for major reforms in the education system. “The most powerful equation for educational scientists is ‘education is equal to future’. Learning, doing and being are the three stages of education. Education should build future and create opportunities. There is need to change   to meet the demands of future which will be driven by science and technology.” 
 
 Mashelkar shared five ‘mantras’ – high aspirations, hard work, creating new opportunities, persistence and limitless goals – with the students. He was conferred with Dr M S Gosavi Excellence Award 2018 on the occasion. 
 
 Kakodkar spoke about the value-based learning. “There will be many changes due to advancement in science and technology. In this age of rapid changes, we must stick to our values,” he said. 
 
 He also appealed to educational institutions to accept the responsibility of educating students in rural areas. 
 
 In his address Nigwekar said there was a need of right to education for parents too as they are the true mentors of their children. “Education should create entrepreneurs and not job-seekers. Time has come for Indian youth to come out of the conventional job-seeker’s attitude.”
 
 The honorary fellowship awards of the GES were given to Swami Janardanandji Maharaj from Uttarkashi and kirtankar Charudatta Aphale from Pune. Aphale and author Indrayani Sawkar also expressed their wishes on the occasion.
 
 The GES was established on February 19, 1918, the third death anniversary of Gopal Krishana Gokhale. At present, the society works in three Nashik, Mumbai and Thane zones with 17 centres and 121 institutions. More than 1.25 lakh students are studying in GES institutions.
 
 Deepti Deshpande, principal of the SMRK College, welcomed the guests. GES secretary M S Gosavi briefed the history of the society and also revealed its future plans. 
 
 The foundation stone for Gurudakshina Hall was laid by the dignitaries. More than 100 former students have decided to raise funds for the hall.
 
 
