Mysuru: Providing   connections to Below Poverty Line (BPL) families has remained one of chief minister Siddaramaiah’s most ambitious programmes, and on February 11, the initiative is all set to be launched at T Narasipura taluk. On the other hand, political observers believe that this could be part of the Congress’ efforts to boost Sunil Bose’s prospects in the  .

 T Narasipur segment is currently represented by Mysuru district in-charge minister, and public works minister  , who has vacated the seat for his son Bose this year. The launch of the initiative is expected to be a massive event, which is being held at the APMC yard grounds of T Narasipura, with many other senior party leaders and ministers, besides   and Mahadevappa likely to being attendance.
 
 Siddaramaiah will unveil LPG connections to as many as 6,322 beneficiaries during the event. District administration has planned a cultural fete on the occasion, which includes performances by cultural tropes and display of various tableaux of different departments.
 
 Deputy director of the food and civil supplies department K Rameshwarappa has been entrusted the responsibility of organising the ceremony. “The beneficiaries will be handed a gas stove, two LPG cylinders under the   scheme,” he said.
 
 Rameshwarappa said that BPL card holders without LPG gas connections could register for the same online. “Applicants have to furnish their Aadhar and ration cards, and once we verify that they are not beneficiaries under the Centre’s Ujjwal scheme, we will ensure they are provided the gas connection,” he added.
 
 At a meeting with deputy commissioner D Randeep, Rameshwarappa directed the heads of all departments to ensure that the surroundings of the venue were clean, and instructed them to make seating arrangements to accommodate 6,000 people.
 
 “Also, nearly 4,000 people, including school and PU students, will participate in a rally, where they will hold placards to create awareness on the use of safer and cleaner fuel,” Rameshwarappa said.
 
 Recalling the Sri Mudukuthore Jathra Mahotsav that was recently held at T Narasipura segment, an event during which the profile of   dominated many flexes, political observers opine that the ceremony to unveil the LPG scheme at the same place is Congress’ way of ensuring the leader’s win from the constituency.
 
 
