The recent ban on plastic, as directed by the   government, will be implemented by the end of this month. However, Mumbaikars are already taking prompt action in that direction and college students are not far behind. The eco-conscious lot have started executing corrective measures. BT spoke to college students across the city on how they plan to minimise the use of plastic and here are some options we shortlisted for you...

 
  
 “We, generally, tend to carry our photocopied notes in plastic folders. This usually happens during internal assessments and exams. I am now planning to switch to paper or cardboard folders. It’s a small change, but it will add to our efforts.”
 — Manav Bahl, SYJC Science, Mithibai College
 
 
 
  “Food and beverages in the canteen are often wrapped or covered with plastic. They also use disposable plastic glasses for juices and other beverages. Paper cups and earthenware are viable options. Though it may cost us a little more, I believe it’s worth it.”
 —  , SYJC Science, St Xavier’s College
 
  
  
 
 
 “We carry plastic bottles to college because they are economical, lighter and easy to move around with. However, with this new change coming into picture, I will make use of a metal water bottle. Instead of purchasing newer plastic water bottles, my friends and I plan to make use of the water refill stations on the premises. It will also be easy on my pocket.”
 — Viraj Paste, SYJC Science, RD National College
 
 
 
 “Many of our notepads and even, photocopied notes are spiral-bound. There are variants in the market, which use thread for binding. From now on, I will make use of threads to bind large notes.”
 —  , SYBA, Jai Hind College
 
 
 
 “Since plastic bags are convenient, I used them to carry parcelled food from college. I also used them to carry projects and objects of various weights, shapes and sizes. However, cloth bags can serve the same purpose. Besides, they’re sturdier. While they are slightly more expensive, that’s okay as it is a one-time investment.”
 — Kashish Sharma, SYBA, Jai Hind College
 
