MUMBAI: Bank unions have gone on the offensive against the rising chorus for privatisation of public sector lenders in the wake of the   scam. Stating that it is the equivalent of the devil quoting scriptures, unions have accused the industry of being responsible for bad loans and for bribing bank officials.

 
 "Why is the (RBI) governor silent? Is it his case that now a 'delinquent employee' can help in a fraud of over Rs 11,000 crore without being detected? If so, isn't the RBI admitting a complete collapse of the banking sector?" said   general secretary C H Venkatachalam.
 
 In a press release issued on Monday, the association published a list of 36 private banks that had to be placed under moratorium by the RBI in public interest. "If private banks are really efficient, why these banks were closed down and merged with others? Most of these banks were merged with  . PSBs have become the Neelakanta Mahadev to swallow the poison of failure of many private banks and it is funny that   is asking PSBs to be privatised now. We understand their greed, but they cannot claim that private banks are more efficient," Venkatachalam said .
 
 Following the scam, industry chamber Assocham had said in a statement, "The PNB's fraudulent transactions worth Rs 11,300 crore should act as a strong trigger for the government for reducing its stake to less than 50% in banks, which should then be allowed to work on the lines of private sector lenders with a full sense of accountability to their shareholders, protecting interest of depositors." Venkatachalam said, "Let them not forget that a bulk of the loans given by public sector banks are to private corporate houses. If public sector banks are not efficient, why do they avail these loans from PSBs and why have they not taken such loans from private banks?"
 
 Stating that industry bodies should ask their members to pay up their loans, Venkatachalam said that bank employees in the PNB fraud have committed an "unpardonable sin", but it was private corporate giants like the   group who tempted them.
 
