ZIRAKPUR: Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) will soon repair all the loose wires and give proper support to the existing high, medium and low tension wires in Zirakpur . The decision came after TOI reported that loose live wires are passing from the houses in various area.

 During a meeting, which the PSPCL officials held with the area residents on Wednesday, it was informed that a grant of Rs 5 crore has been released under Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Grameen Kaushalya Yojana. The authorities are planning to utilise this for to provide a much required facelift to Zirakpur. The officials told the residents that they have chalk out the plan to repair all loose wires in the area and also, install poles to support the wires that are hanging low. Officials assured the residents that the work will commence soon.
 
 President of Zirakpur municipal council   said the grant has been made available now and the work will be started soon.
 
 On March 7, 2018, TOI reported that the residents at Dhakoli, Zirakpur, are facing an issue with the medium and low tension wires, which are hanging low enough to harm any passerby. Hundreds of complaints had been made by the residents of   but to no avail.
 
 During a visit to the residential area from house number 185 to 187 and from 309 to 311, it was found that the medium and low tension wires were hanging at a distance of 7 feet to 8 feet. Residents complained that they themselves had made arrangements to get them tied so that no children or the family members met with accidents due to these live wires.
 
 The situation near the house number 309 was worst as the electric wires were at a height of 6 feet to 7 feet and the children were seen trying to climb it to use them as a swing. Parents residing in the area said they had to remain cautious while their kids are out for playing and keep a close check that they do not use those wires as swings.
 
 Residents said the problem in the area increases during rainy season, as these wires act as a threat to the lives of the commuters and residents of the colony. People bear a chance of getting electrocuted by these
 
 Rajesh Pathania, a resident of Dashmesh Enclave, Dhakoli, who attended the meeting said the officials have informed the residents about the project of repair work.
 
 
