CHANDIGARH: Giving a gift of tranquil surroundings to city residents, enclosed in a forest reserve once again, the department of forest,   Administration is all set to inaugurate 'City Forest ‘also known as Nagar Van a protected forest reserve located opposite to the Lake Horse Riding Club. The forest might be inaugarated on March 27 Nagar Van or   established under the Nagar Van Udyan Yojna has been constructed on 100 hectares of land, surrounded by lush greenery, dense vegetation and trees. ‘Nagar Van Udyan Yojna’ is an urban forestry scheme of the Union ministry of environment, forests and climate Change (MoEF&CC), New Delhi which aims at creating at atleast one city forest in each city having a   or which is Class I for providing a healthy living environment.

 Situated in the Lake Beat, Chandigarh Range the lush green reserve has been created to raise awareness on plants and biodiversity among the city residents, while also giving them the feel of a forest reserve, existing within the city limits.
 
 The forest has also been set up to sensitise visitors and tourists towards the conservation of natural resources to provide education on important flora and fauna of the region. It also urges everyone to provide a healthy environment that is clean air, noise reduction, water harvesting and reduction of city temperature, to conduct forestry related research associated with the management and to conserve aquatic flora and fauna.
 
 The 100 hectare premises of the forest is enriched with a diverse species of trees like Kikar, Safeda, Amaltas, Shisham among others. A large section of the land of the premises has been richly planted with almost 500 saplings of Palash Tree, a rare breed these days which is also the state tree of Punjab and is considered to be a native plant of Chandigarh. A wide variety of ornamental plants have also been planted along various jogging stretches in the park and at different locations.
 
 An open hand pond, along with an open fish pond, a meditation hut and a visitor's shed, secluded within the wrap of the woods, 2 shallow water bodies, 2 children parks, open-air gyms, 2 selfie points and little hillocks of mud and rocks have been created all through the area. “We have not tried to manicure the surroundings of the forest a lot because we wanted to preserve the natural feel of the forest,” said G K Ranjan, Forest Department official, UT Administration.
 
 The forest can also be used as a wildlife safari with a large range of birds and animals to be seen including Peacocks, Bara Singha, Jungle Foul, Woodpecker, Kingfisher, Owls, Deers, Jungle Cat, Mongoose among others.
 
 In order to re-use the wasted sewerage water flowing in from the nearby Kaimbwala Village and Kansal two-three low, lying water channels (gorges) have been created which are obstructed by walls of rock and paddy stubble to purify the water naturally through a process called Bio-Treatment of Sewage Water.
 
 Various boards explaining vital information about the forest, the level of COD and BOD along with other water soluble gases among other nutrients has been displayed.
 
 
