In the latest episode of  , after   reveals that they had been lying to their parents about learning how to drive a scooter,  ,   and   get out of control. They begin running after the kids until Mehta calms them down.

 Jethalal, Hathi and Sodhi begin to scold the kids and wonder what will happen when Bhide would know about Sakharam. Suddenly Jethalal recalls that Bhide was about to keep an eye on Sakharam. And asks how they managed to sneak out the scooter at night. 
 
 They tell them about the Ayurvedic oil that helped them put Bhide to sleep. They also reveal that they made duplicate keys of the scooter, which makes Jethalal furious at them. Mehta asks them who was teaching them to drive the scooter. 
 
 Before Tapu is able to explain anything, Baga and Bawri come out of their hiding, which leaves Jethalal shocked. He reprimands Baga for lying to him but Tapu interrupts them. The latter confesses that he had asked Baga to teach them if he loved Bawri.
 
 While they continue to scold the kids, a drunk man comes to them and begins to take Tapu's side. He gets offended by Jethalal's accusations, and makes him apologize for the same. When the drunkard learns that Tapu is Jetha's kid, he leaves telling them he didn't know they were related. 
 
 Mehta asks the kids what prompted them to learn driving. Tapu talks about the auto-taxi strike that made them feel helpless even though they had the scooter and the keys with them. To help Dadaji and others, they decided to learn how to drive. 
 
 Mehta tells them that even though their intentions were good, their approach wasn't correct. Jetha tells Tapu that he is not going to spare them for this act and report the matter to the police. 
 
 When Jetha refuses to listen to Tapu, Mehta reminds them of one of their evening sessions, where Jetha, Sodhi and Hathi had confessed that they learnt driving when they were underage. Mehta tells them they should be thankful that the kids spoke honestly to them and should forgive them. 
 
 Jethalal goes back to Tapu and thinks of Bhide's words. He feels he won't be forgiven for Tapu's act. They all begin to think of ways to repair the scooter before Bhide gets up. 
 
 
