PUNE: The   (MoD) has given conditional clearance to the proposed  , provided the flight route is re-arranged and other technical issues are resolved.

 
 According to the information provided by a government source, the MoD had raised some concerns on the Airports Authority of India (AAI)’s report and followed it up with several discussions with all the stakeholders from the state government. A meeting held last week finally gave a “positive signal” to the state government officials regarding the proposed airport, provided necessary steps were taken to address its concerns, the official said.
 
 One of the main hurdles for the project was the MoD’s concern over the Hyderbad-Mumbai sector flights being affected. It was agreed upon to re-arrange the flight routes of   and Hyderabad-Gulbarga-Aghela-Purandar (Pune). “With the re-arrangement, the issue has been addressed,” said the official.
 
 The other area of concern was the flight path coinciding with the Lohegaon airport. It was discussed and all the technical aspects were agreed upon. The instrument approach procedures were ready after a lot of deliberation, said the official about the outcome of the meeting last week.
 
 The   (NDA) also raised concerns about operations of their airstrip being affected once the Purandar airport started operations. This, according to the official, was also addressed.
 
 The official said the project would be given a final go-ahead after AAI addressed the three issues — sharing airspace with the Lohegaon airport, the flight path obstructions concerning Mumbai-Hyderbad flights and the NDA’s concerns.
 
 Maharashtra Airport Development Company (MADC) said the official decision of MoD on the proposed new airport at Purandar taluka was expected by the next week. MADC’s vice-chairman-cum-managing director Suresh Kakani said they were yet to receive any official communication.
 
 “If one takes into account the recent statement made by the senior officials of AAI about the project, we feel that MoD has given an ‘in-principle’ nod to the project. If that is the case, MADC will receive an official confirmation by the next week only,” he said.
 
 He added that the land acquisition process for the airport in Purandar, around 45km from Pune, would take more time because the MoD must have cited certain conditions and reservations before giving an ‘in-principle’ nod to the project announced by chief minister Devendra Fadnavis in late 2016.
 
 With the NOC (no objection certificate) from the MoD pending, the issue could be taken up by Union minister Nitin Gadkari, who heads the government’s infrastructure committee, on January 30 in Delhi.
 
 Pune MP and Airport Advisory Committee head Anil Shirole had said the new airport could become a reality by 2022-23. Praveen Pardeshi, the principal secretary to the chief minister, had recently said the proposed airport and Metro projects would be undertaken with utmost priority.
 
 
