RAIPUR: New Year’s day should be one heck of a party in this village. After all, some 200 of them share the same birthday. But no one’s celebrating. Instead, the Aadhar card mess that gifted them the common birthday is giving them sleepless nights.

 A whole lot of over 200 villagers have January 1 as common Date of Birth documented in one of the most mandatory identity proof of Aadhar card. Tribal villagers in Chhattisgarh’s   district have been running from pillar to post to rectify the alleged error committed by operators in 2011 during a camp. While many of them anticipated it would deprive them of government benefits, different dates on students’ mark sheet and Aadhar card was becoming an issue.
 
 Gariyaband collector Shruti Singh told TOI that the number of people whose card has wrong date of birth was being verified after the administration received complaints from villagers.
 
 “Team of officials have started resolving the documentation of the   and efforts were being made that the rectification is done till the last card with wrong data entries,” collector said.
 
 Reports of several goof-ups in Aadhar card has surfaced in the past but it was considered a major blunder finding hundreds of people holding cards of same birth dates. Though the year of birth was different in cards which were assumptions based on the age that villagers stated as they couldn’t produce birth certificates of any proof.
 
 The e-district manager   said that it was a mistake committed by operator making data entries who mentioned common date of January 1 and changed year of birth.
 
 He said that a camp was set up in the village where in process of rectification in 100 cards has begun and there were information of nearly 50 more such cards with mistakes. Dewangan refuted the rumour of more than 600 Aadhar cards having common birth dates.
 
 The tribal villagers said that it has been more than three years they have been trying to get the mistake rectified but their requests fall into deaf ears. They said that the Aadhar card was made in haste and they were given no time to find birth proofs and were asked verbally about their birth details.
 
 A college student   said that her marksheet and Aadhar card had different birth dates which becomes cause of trouble for her as well as college administration.
 
 It was only when the villagers approached media and the matter was highlighted following which, district administration took cognizance of the issue.
 
