CHANDIGARH: Dr  , who had allegedly committed suicide at PGI’s Old Doctors’ Hostel on Monday, was considered an outstanding student as he was doing MD in radiodiagnosis. Radiology and medicine are the most sought after specializations as only meritorious students can get admission for these. Prasad had joined   as a junior resident on January 22 this year.

 
 His father is a priest in Rameswaram, Tamil Nadu. Dr Prasad was the only son of his parents and belonged to a lower middle class family. “He had initially taken medicine for specialization and then switched over to radiodiagnosis department,” said a doctor.
 
 None of the doctors from Association of Resident Doctors divulged anything about the incident. According to official sources, the family members have been informed and they shall reach PGI on Tuesday, until then the body is kept in PGI’s mortuary. “It is a tragic and an unfortunate incident. A condolence meeting shall be held on Tuesday when the family members shall arrive,” said Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGI.
 
 Sources said the doctor did not attend his emergency duty on Sunday. Moreover, he was unhappy about overstretched working hours in the hospital.
 
 
 
 
 Last month, four junior resident doctors from the departments of medicine, pathology and radiology resigned, citing stress as the reason. At any given time, one can see resident doctors working over 14-15 hours in the emergency. “Often we had given representations to the higher officials to limit our timings in the emergency, as the   has, but nothing has been done,” said a resident doctor. There have been studies published from PGI, where a recent one concluded that the majority of resident doctors felt they were overloaded with work. The stress levels show an increasing trend with each year of residency.
 
 This is not the only incident of suicide from PGI. In 2016, Dr   a DM, clinical pharmacology resident of PGI, died under mysterious circumstances. In 2016, Dr  , a junior resident doctor from the department of nuclear medicine at PGI, committed suicide at his residence in Sector 16.
 
