GURUGRAM: A 35-year-old special police officer who tried to prevent an   being chased by his colleagues from getting away was crushed to death by the driver of the rogue vehicle when he tried to set up a barricade on old Delhi-Gurgaon road in the early hours of Monday. 

   , who had   Gurgaon police only around six months ago, died in hospital on Monday morning. The SUV, a black Mahindra Xylo with a Punjab registration number, had damaged his liver and caused severe internal bleeding. 
 
 Palam Vihar SHO Vikram Nehra, who was on night patrol on Sunday, said he got a call from police control room about the suspicious Xylo. But when the SUV was asked to stop at a check post, as it arrived from Atul Kataria Road, it jumped the barricade and fled. 
 
 The local police station was alerted on wireless. Around 1.30am, Nehra spotted the Xylo and started chasing it. 
 
 According to Nehra, the chase lasted around 15-20 minutes, during which time the Xylo kept speeding towards Delhi. Thereafter, the SHO lost track of it, and suspecting it would try to escape to Delhi via Hanuman Chowk, informed another night patrol vehicle, PCR 22, to set up a barricade. He also instructed   to “be careful” as the Xylo was speeding relentlessly and its occupants appeared to be carrying “something suspicious”. 
 
  
  PCR 22, with   Mukesh Kumar and constable Sanjay in it, managed to track down the Xylo on a stretch between Hanuman Chowk and the Gurgaon-Delhi border at Kapashera. The stretch had been narrowed down because of ongoing sewer cleaning work, which had slowed the Xylo down. But as Mukesh alighted from PCR 22 to set up a barricade, the Xylo, with its headlights turned off, bumped the PCR from behind in a bid to escape. Mukesh fell, and the Xylo ran over him before he could get up. It sped on into Delhi. 
 
 Mukesh was rushed to Columbia Asia hospital in Palam Vihar, where he succumbed to injuries hours later, police said. On Monday morning, Mukesh’s family arrived from Sirsa Khera village in Jind. The last rites were carried out in his home village to a seven-gun salute. Mukesh is survived by his wife and three children — two daughters and a two-year-old son.
 
 Police spokesperson Ravinder Kumar said Mukesh had joined the squad as part of a recruitment drive six months ago, when members of the disbanded Haryana State Industrial Security Force (HSISF) were recruited into the short-staffed police force. He had been a part of HSISF since 2004. 
 
 An FIR was registered in Palam Vihar police station under sections 302 (murder) and 307 (attempt to murder) against unknown accused.
 
 Police surces said cops in Delhi were informed but the Xylo had not been tracked down at the time of filing this report. Police said they suspected the SUV had crossed the Kapashera border and made for West Delhi. 
 
 “We’ve managed to get the car’s registration number, and are getting it traced. The accused will be arrested soon,” Nehra told TOI. 
 
 
  
 
 
