PANAJI: The   ( ) has set January 2019 as the likely deadline for the completion of a freedom fighters’ memorial at  . However, it is unlikely to be completed within that timeframe. 

 “The project has come to a standstill as we are yet to receive a forest clearance,” a GSIDC official said. The proposed memorial is to replace an existing one. However, the permission to dismantle it, too, is yet to be received. 
 
 The official said that that although the project was conceptualised over three years ago, not much progress has been made, largely owing to difficulties securing the various permissions. He said the project, to be built at a cost of Rs 11.33 crore, was planned to begin in January 2017 and be completed this month. 
 
 Besides the permissions, the project also ran into monetary roadblocks. “We have not received any funds from the finance department so far,” a GSIDC official said. He said that the forest department moved a file to the Bengaluru officer to secure a forest clearance for the plot in question under the Forest Clearance Act 1980. In October 2017, the Bengaluru office wrote back saying that components of the project, like a cafetaria and a parking lot, were not allowed under the act. 
 
 The Patradevi location for the memorial has historical significance for Goa. In 1955, the Portuguese government shot several satyagrahis trying to enter Goa from  . Despite its significance, however, the old Patradevi memorial has remained largely neglected. 
 
 The GSIDC official said that it shouldn’t take this long to get clearances. “This has happened to many of our projects,” he said. “The undue delays in getting clearances is a major factor why we are unable to kickstart and complete projects on time.” However, he said he is confident of getting the project completed once the forest clearance is received. 
 
 The corporation currently has around 50 projects under way, a few of which are nearing completion. 
 
 The proposed memorial is to replace an existing one (in picture). But permission to dismantle it is also yet to be received. The Patradevi location has historical significance for Goa. In 1955, the Portuguese government shot several satyagrahis trying to enter Goa from Maharashtra
 
 
