CHANDIGARH: The Punjab police have cancelled around 80% of some 175 false cases registered for various offences, including drug trafficking, during the 10-year regime of the previous SAD-BJP government. The action has been taken on recommendations of the commission headed by Justice   (retd), which is continuing to examine complaints on the issue.

 Till December 3, the commission submitted four interim reports while disposing of 563 public complaints from a total of 4,371 complaints it received till July 31.
 
 Of the 563 cases, the commission recommended cancellation of 98 FIRs and the Punjab police had accepted before the   commission that 79 false cases were registered in Bathinda during the SAD-BJP regime. The panel recommended that the concerned courts must be approached for cancellation of these 177 FIRs.
 
 A senior officer of the Punjab home department confirmed that 80% of the total false FIRs found by the Gill commission have been annulled. 
 
 The police have moved requests before the concerned courts to request cancellation of the remaining 20% FIRs found false.
 
 The two-member Gill commission, also comprising retired district and sessions judge BS Mehandiratta, was constituted by  's   government on April 5.
 
 The commission also recommended action against police personnel, including dismissal of a  , for biased case investigation or involvement in registration of false FIRs. On this, the Punjab home department said police officers discredited for their role in the fake cases will be taken to task but it would take some time as proper procedure needed to be followed for any kind of disciplinary action.
 
 In its first interim report submitted on August 23, the commission after examining 178 cases had recommended cancellation of 19 false FIRs. The commission had also recommended payment of compensation in 130 cases which was to be recovered from the concerned police personnel. 
 
 
 
 
 Dismissal of DSP Gurmit Singh was recommended for a false case registered at Sadar Khanna police station at his behest on May 31, 2009, for theft and criminal trespass. A recommendation was also made for recovery of compensation from him to be paid to victim Jaswinder Singh.
 
 The second interim report was submitted on September 19 and the commission recommended cancellation of FIRs in 37 cases. In four cases, the commission had suggested compensation for the victims. In its third interim report, the commission, after examining a total of 101 complaints, recommended cancellation of 12 FIRs.
 
 Thereafter, the commission submitted its fourth interim report on December 3 after examining 112 more cases and recommended action in 30 false cases. In this report, the commission while citing acquittal of journalist Naresh Kumar by the Faridkot judicial court, recommended cancellation of FIR against him and legal action against the complainant and the police for registering false case due to political vendetta.
 
 
 
