MUMBAI: Be it in sport or any other profession, one is likely to face the temptation to scale a summit. The urge to reach the top and cherish the perks that come along with the tag of 'champion' is simply too overwhelming.

 India's No. 1 and World's No. 14 squash player Saurav Ghosal has experienced that sentiment many a time in his 13-year-career on the professional squash circuit.
 
 "When I turned pro, I wanted to play as many tournaments as I could because lots of rankings points were at stake," Ghosal, a 12-time national champion, who is here to take part in the inaugural Vedanta Indian Open Squash tournament, said at the launch of the $35,000 PSA event. "Lots of points meant a meteoric rise on the circuit. What I didn't realise then, though, was the path that I was taking was not the correct one.
 
 "A sportsperson, especially a squash player (matches can take a severe toll on a squash player's body), should realise how much workload the body is willing to accept. Like any other youngster aspiring to make it big, I did hasten things up a bit," he added.
 
 After a few failures and a drop in the rankings, Ghosal realised that he had to determine a way where he could not only garner valuable points, but also preserve his body and ensure he stayed free from injury.
 
 "After the initial days of haste, I realised I have to slow things down a bit, calm my mind. That's when I decided to participate in select tournaments. Of course there are occasions when you have to play back-to-back tournaments, but I stopped stretching myself from playing three tournaments one after the other," Ghosal, who is married to top women's squash player  's sister, Diya, added.
 
 Having overcome the early glitches in his career and having attained his best world ranking of 14, Ghosal now has a far clearer head on his shoulders.
 
 In the upcoming Commonwealth Games to be held in Gold Coast, Australia, from April 4-15, Ghosal will spearhead the Indian challenge in the men's singles category and will team up with sister-in-law Dipika in the mixed doubles.
 
 "I will be playing in the singles and mixed doubles with Dipika (Pallikal) and will not play in men's doubles at the Commonwealth Games, which will be my third," he said. 
 
 
 
