KOCHI: An extensive   investigation is needed on whether the nation's interests were affected when a Border Security Force ( ) commandant allegedly aided smugglers while in charge of the international border of India and Bangladesh, the Kerala high court said. 

 The need for an exhaustive probe was stressed by the court in the order issued on a bail plea filed by   in  , who was the commandant of 83 Batallion of BSF West Bengal. He was caught by a CBI team with a suitcase containing Rs 45 lakh, alleged to be part of the bribe money received for aiding smugglers at the international border.
 
 While denying bail to the BSF commandant, justice B   said in the order: "Considering the nature and gravity of the offences alleged against the petitioner, I am of the view that an extensive investigation by the National Investigation Agency, to find out as to whether the petitioner was involved in any act of betraying the nation by assisting the terrorists and smugglers, is necessary, as rightly submitted by the learned retainer counsel for CBI. This court expects that the authorities concerned will conduct a detailed investigation with regard to the above said aspects at the earliest, taking into consideration the interest of the nation."
 
 As per the prosecution case, the commandant received Rs50 lakh from smugglers operating along the international border of India and Bangladesh, where his battalion was deployed. On getting information about his illegal activities, CBI followed him while travelling in   from Shalimar to Kayamkulam. He was intercepted when he got down at Alappuzha station on January 30.
 
 CBI's counsel Sasthamangalam S Ajithkumar submitted that there are allegations against the petitioner regarding offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act as well as other offences. As these offences are yet to be revealed in investigation, it will not be safe to release him on bail, CBI's counsel argued.
 
 CBI had informed the court that an international smuggler named Bishu Sheik was assisted by the commandant in smuggling cattle, drugs, etc across the India-Bangladesh border. The cattle are used as couriers for smuggling hawala money and arms across the border, CBI told the court. Bishu Sheik's phone number was stored in the commandant's phone and that he used to be in touch with him frequently, the court was informed.
 
 
