PARIS: Grigor Dimitrov is working on his ‘relationship’ with the French Open. The fourth-seeded Bulgarian earlier admitted to ‘never having had a good relationship’ with  , he had lost in the first round in four of his previous seven visits here. 

 
 On a sun-kissed Sunday in Paris, the 27-year-old, in his first round engagement against lucky loser Eygpt’s Mohamed Safwat, showcased his willingness to take that extra step. Dimitrov won 6-1, 6-4, 7-6 (7-1) on the Philippe-Chatrier Court Dimitrov, whose play is a sonnet of shot making, but was better known for his romantic liaisons, until he claimed the ATP World Tour Finals crown in London in November.
 
 Safwat, who replaced Serbia’s Viktor Troicki, sidelined by a lower back injury, in the main draw, found out he was making his maiden appearance at a major, only an hour before play.
 
 It was as much of a surprise for the fourth-seed, who went into practice in the morning thinking he was playing Troicki. “After my warmup, Viktor was, like, ‘Hey, good luck today’. I found out about 30-35 minutes before I had to go out,” said Dimitrov, who regrouped quickly enough.
 
 In other first round matches, men’s second seed   moved past Lithuania’s Ricardas Berankis 6-1, 6-1, 6-2; 10th -seeded Pablo Carreno Busta of Spain beat Jozef Kovalik of Slovakia 4-6, 6-1, 7-5, 7-6 (7-5); The 19th seed Japan’s Kei Nishikori knocked out French wildcard entrant Maxime Jarvier 6-7 (0-7), 6-4, 6-3. Women’s fourth seed,   rallied to score a 7-5, 6-3 win over Aussie Ajla Tomljanovic; 10th seed Sloane Stephens beat Dutch Arantxa Rus 6-2, 6-0. In a shock result American veteran Venus Williams bowed 4-6, 5-7 to China’s   while defending champion Jelena Ostapenko was sent packing by World No. 66 Kateryna Kozlova 7-5, 6-3.
 
 
 
 The story of a lucky loser spot in the main draw of the French Open ironically ended on a sour note for India No.3 Prajnesh Gunneswaran on Sunday. The big-serving Indian, who had lost in the final round of the qualifying competition to Sweden’s Elias Ymer on Friday, could’ve been the eighth lucky loser to make the Roland Garros main draw had he stuck around in Paris for another week. So close, yet so far. After bowing out of the qualifying competition Gunneswaran decided to play the 50,000 ATP Challenger in Vicenza, where he made the main draw automatically.
 
 The ‘one tournament per week rule’ came into play ruling out the Indian, tournament referee Yan Kuszak explained. There is an exception to the rule, which may have worked had Gunneswaran entered in the qualifying draw in Italy.
 
 In which case the supervisor could’ve resolved the conflict by fining the player before releasing him.
