With a dream to make every government office corruption free, C   has started a mission to weed out corruption from his village -   in Sulur block in Coimbatore.

 A Class XII pass, Saravana Kumar is a power loom weaver by profession. The 40-year-old started his journey as a social worker eight years ago when he was asked to pay bribes for obtaining ration cards and other government schemes.
 
 Annoyed with the wide-spread corruption, Saravan Kumar joined  , an organization that empowers people about the Constitution, acts and laws of the country. "Article 51 (1) states that every citizen should work for the development of the nation. I am just following that and doing my duty," he says.
 
 He first began with finding out if the panchayat officials were working as per the norms. When he questioned them about the tardy and poor implementation of projects, he was never given any information.
 
 "During his tenure in 2015, our former panchayat president   had asked us all to pay Rs 7,500 for water pipeline connections. When I asked him on what basis this rate was fixed, Hari Krishnan and his supporters threatened me. They told all the villagers that the scheme won’t be implemented because of me. They turned all the villagers against me. The villagers did not realize that I was fighting for their rights," he says.
 
 Later, all the houses got the pipelines except his. When he questioned panchayat officials, Saravana Kumar was told that because he filed RTI applications, the politicians had ensured he did not get water connection. "They even filed a case against me stating I misbehaved with those who came to lay the pipelines. Then for several months, drinking water was not supplied to my home," he says. His parents though support him are really worried about his safety.
 
 Fighting all odds, he continues to fight for the people and spends several sleepless nights going through various government documents to unearth corruption. So far, he has unearthed the toilet scam, in which several crores were siphoned off by officials by making fake beneficiaries pose in front of same toilets and also by showing old toilets as new ones under the ‘Swachh Bharat’ scheme.
 
 He also brought out extensive corruption in the implementation of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) in his panchayat. Apart from these, he has also helped several people benefit from government schemes in the village.
 
 "If they just reply for our RTIs, we can find out everything. I dream that in every village, one person turns into an activist to safeguard that village from corruption," he says. Saravana Kumar is unmarried and stays with his parents at the village.
 
 
