The business of life has us sitting on a cliff edge on a daily basis. When was the last time you had a day you’d describe as perfect? When you didn’t forget to pack your kid’s lunch box, curse the car next to you, felt elated at work, didn’t feel inadequate in some way or the other or didn’t have unresolved issues weighing you down? It happens every day, right?

 
 Well, if you follow the ancient Japanese philosophy of wabi-sabi, you would not fret over such stuff; simply because you wouldn’t look for perfection in anything on a daily basis. On the contrary, you’d embrace life’s imperfections – its transient nature. Leonard Koren, author of Wabi-Sabi: for Artists, Designers, Poets & Philosophers, explains, “Wabi-sabi embraces things that are imperfect, impermanent, and incomplete – the antithesis of our classical Western notion of beauty as something perfect, enduring, and monumental.”
  
 
 Life coach Farzana Suri says it’s happening because of the premium people have put in set notions of perfection, and more importantly, where it has led them… mostly to a psychiatrist’s couch. “No one and nothing is perfect, and the faster we leave the notion of perfection behind, the lighter our minds and hearts would be. Instead, embrace your flaws – be it a broken tea-cup or a cracked friendship,” suggests Suri. Singer Runki Goswami believes seeking perfection in everything limits our brain’s capacity to expand its horizon because: “Perfection simply does not exist. Your definition of perfection could be different from another person’s understanding of it.” Corporate coach Azim Jamal says the problem with chasing perfection is that “it leads to a permanent feeling of inadequacy”.
 
 
 
 In today’s world, the problem has grown manifold because everything is made to appear perfect – through photoshop, cool and warm filters on our smartphone, a perfect dress on the computer, which when ordered looks less than ordinary. The pressure to be Mr or Ms Perfect creates havoc, and the problem only gets worse when we keep on saying “we’re fine” to ourselves and others – when things are actually falling apart. Life coach Jasmin Waldmann says, “Wabi-sabi’s power lies in giving freedom back to people – the freedom to calm down as you accept the core of this ancient philosophy: in mess and transience lies beauty.”
 
 
 
 Didn’t legendary poet/singer/songwriter Leonard Cohen say so in his beautiful song Anthem? “There is a crack in everything, that’s how the light gets in”. Cohen, who hardly ever explained his songs, had made a rare statement about this particular one – which explains the wabi-sabi concept quite aptly. “This (our world) is not the place where you make things perfect, neither in your marriage, nor in your work, nor anything... The thing is imperfect. And worse, there is a crack in everything that you can put together: Physical objects, mental objects... But that’s where the light gets in, and that’s where the resurrection is...,” he had said.
 
 
 
 Next time, when caught in a traffic jam, don’t let it grind your nerves. Accept the cacophony as a part of this beautifully imperfect world. Don’t throw that chipped flower vase away. Do get wet on a rainy day. In fact, go out on a date, plan to meet old friends – all without thinking about traffic snarls and other inconveniences. It is in these imperfect moments that we find life’s greatest pleasures, says author Andrew Juniper in  : The Japanese Art of Impermanence. “Presenting itself as an alternative to today’s fast-paced, mass-produced, neon-lighted world, wabi-sabi reminds us to slow down and take comfort in the simple, natural beauty around us,” adds Juniper. 
 
 Bringing wabi-sabi into your life doesn’t require flamboyance or special skills. Just get into those old faded jeans, glue the cracked china pot and the broken bucket. Imperfect is the perfect way to be.
 
 From Hollywood actress Jessica Alba to Twitter founder/ CEO Jack Dorsey, people are increasingly turning to the wabi-sabi way of life. let’s find out why... 
 
 From Hollywood actress Jessica Alba to Twitter founder/CEO Jack Dorsey, people are increasingly turning to the wabi-sabi way of life
 
 Wabi sabi embraces things that are imperfect, impermanent, and incomplete – the antithesis of our classical Western notion of beauty as something perfect, enduring, and monumental
 
 
 Presenting itself as an alternative to today’s fast-paced, mass-produced, neon-lighted world, wabi-sabi reminds us to slow down and take comfort in the simple, natural beauty around us
 
 
 
 
