For 11 years now, the   has been one of the most looked-forward-to college festivals in town. Every year, colleges coming under Sinhgad Technical Education Society, have been partaking in the large-scale festival, while also inviting other institutes to participate. 

 It’s little wonder then that recent news of the festival being cancelled this time came as a rude shock to students. It is said to be attributed to the on-going   by teaching and non-teaching staff over pending salaries. Sachin Shinde, a former teaching staff member of the society’s Smt Kashibai Navale College of Engineering (SKNCOE), says, “The society has failed to keep to its word to disburse pending salaries this month, which is why the staff went on strike this week.” According to Sachin, whose services were allegedly terminated for going on strike, when the staff went on strike last month as well, the society promised that payments would be made on January 24. Students had also extended their support to the staff during December’s strike.
 
 An official circular dated January 29, addressed by  , chairman of  , to principals, directors and deans of the society (a copy of which is with Pune Times), cites, ‘The last few weeks have been quite challenging for all of us and it is extremely saddening to see how the situation escalated. In many cases, regular lectures had to be postponed or cancelled affecting academic routine. We as an institution give utmost importance to academics and keeping the situation in mind, we are forced to cancel Sinhgad Karandak 2018.’ 
 
  
  
 
 
 As the case currently stands, there is a festival line-up in place as well, but the event stands cancelled. According to Shinde, lectures too aren’t being held across 12 of the society’s institutes, which includes eight engineering institutes, three pharmacy colleges and a diploma college (at the Kondhwa, Wadgaon, Narhe, Warje and Lonavala campuses). “It is sad that such an event had to be cancelled because of the strike. It forms a key part of extracurricular activities which is equally important for students,” says another faculty member, on condition of anonymity. Understandably so, students are equally disappointed. Engineering student Mayuri J rues, “We look forward to this time of the year because of the Sinhagad Karandak. Besides the fact that it serves as a good break for us, the festival also gives students that much needed experience of working on large-scale events.”
 
 Besides the sports and  , Sinhgad Karandak also invites international bands to perform every year. The festival budget runs into crores (`2-3 crore), which is generated through sponsorships (students and staff members work on this) and student contributions at the time of their admission (the amount is part of the fees). — 
 
 
 We are disappointed that there won’t be a karandak this year because of the ongoing strike. We’ve lost out on the event, but I hope our lectures resume soon. After all, there’s a syllabus to complete, and we’re losing time. — 
 
 
