GURUGRAM: By Monday evening, the traffic diversions put in place on the expressway at the erstwhile Sirhaul toll by traffic police on Sunday had undergone a trial by fire, and the results were hardly encouraging.

 Nevertheless, officials are convinced this was an initial glitch due to lack of information, and will smooth out once commuters become more aware.
 
 With the work of setting up jersey barriers to physically demarcate the diversions yet to be completed, hundreds of private and commercial vehicles, unaware of the diversions, faced long tailbacks on their way to Delhi Monday afternoon onwards. The volume of traffic coming from under the Shankar Chowk flyover during peak hours — including from Cyber City and Udyog Vihar — was high. Also, once on the expressway, they had to cut across several lanes of the 16-lane carriageway, including designated commercial lanes, to merge with traffic headed for Delhi on the Rajokri flyover. While this works fine when volume of commercial traffic is less, during afternoon hours, for instance, it’s a different story when commercial traffic volume is high.
 
 Meanwhile, to take the Rajokri U-turn, traffic coming from Shankar Chowk flyover and heading for Rajokri, Kapashera or Ambience, had to cut across several lanes of traffic coming from under the flyover to reach the extreme left lane, as soon as they got off the flyover. This was the source of the biggest confusion. 
 
 Road safety officer (RSO) Rajkumar said the possibility of collisions was there even before the diversions were implemented. “Now, traffic will intersect at a designated spot, making it more predictable,” he said.
 
 Besides, jersey barriers set up to keep traffic from under the flyover separated from traffic coming down the flyover, do not yet cover sufficient distance. This led to several near-collisions at the point of merging traffic on Monday, further slowing down the flow.
 
 According to traffic officials who were present all day at the spot, a number of bewildered commuters also stopped to ask for directions. “Some of them even started removing the barriers and arguing with others, worsening the already fraught situation,” said a senior official.
 
  Rajesh, who commutes to Delhi every day, said he didn’t feel the traffic was any worse than most Mondays, and expected things to get better once commuters get used to the changes. 
 
 “This is a good idea and has been long overdue. People just need to start accepting the changes,” he said.
 
 Another commuter, Khushi, said cops need to make the directions clearer, and erect signage from further back. Also, commercial vehicles should be made to adhere to their lanes.
 
 “Being the first day of trials, the   was expected. We expected there would be disturbances. More singnage will be erected in the coming days to minimise confusion,” said Rajkumar. Throughout the day, the area had 3-4 RSOs present with several traffic officials trying to help commuters.
 
 The jam started around 5pm, and it got better around 7.30 pm. While movement towards the extreme left lanes smoothed out, ongoing construction work on the Delhi side played a big part in the tailbacks that formed in the lanes moving across the border.
 
 
