CHANDIGARH: The election of Punjab and Haryana   bar association was challenged in Punjab and   high court on Monday. Advocate Chouhan Satvider Singh  , contestant for the post of president challenged these elections and demanded fresh elections to be conducted. It is alleged that the process of election conducted by the high court election committee is faulty and should be cancelled with immediate effect. The petition would come up for hearing in a day or two.

 It was stated that as per the guidelines, last date of clearance of dues and taking affidavit from the voters was decided as 15.03.2018. Also, no extension is given by the bar council but the election committee extended the date of furnishing the affidavits to 19.03.2018 without taking the permission from the bar council or putting it before the   which amounted to gross violation of bar council rules. It was argued that neither any permission was taken nor was it granted by any authority for extension of date for filling affidavit. It was arbitrarily and illegally extended which should amount to cancellation of elections and conducting of fresh elections.
 
 It was also stated that under the bar council rules, the law graduates who are given provisional degree can get themselves registered in any of the bar association. However, they will have the right to vote only after clearing their all India bar council examination. This rule was also not followed by the election committee amounting to gross violation of the bar council rules.
 
 Besides this, the election was conducted without getting the proof of ballot paper approved by the committee, Sisodia alleged. Due to this, name of one candidate for executive member who has withdrawn from the election existed resulting in the mismatch of the serial number allotted to the candidates. When the confusion created due to this was brought to the knowledge of election committee, the election procedure was stopped for about two hours without any prior information. Following this, the committee illegally decided to elect all the 12 executive members as executive members which is against the election rules and constitution of the bar association, alleged Sisodia.
 
 As per the bar association rules, the provision is only to have seven executive members but the election committee unanimously elected all the 12 contesting members without election and mandate of vote, and even without putting the same before the general house.
 
 As far as counting process is concerned it was pointed out that it was also full of defects as the camera was defective for broadcasting the live coverage. One of the contestants demended for recounting of certain votes due to non-display of ballot papers and he was assured that it will be done once 900 votes were counted. However, the same was not done on his representation, neither were the ballot boxes sealed in petitioner’s presence for further record.
 
 Meanwhile, election petition is filed in bar council of Punjab and Haryana bar council election tribunal which has also issued notice for the same.
 
 
