CHANDIGARH: The crime branch of the UT   on Sunday claimed to have busted a gang of cheats who duped people on the pretext of recruiting them as cops, with the arrest of its kingpin.

 Crime branch in-charge   said the accused has been identified as Sukhdev Singh, alias Bunty, 38, a resident of Amravati Enclave, Panchkula. Amanjot Singh said some people, including a girl, approached sub-inspector   on patrolling duty near the exit gate of bus stand parking in Sector 43 on March 24, saying they have been selected in Chandigarh Police on the post of ASI, head constable and constable and inquired about training. When Satwinder Singh told them that no recruitment process was under way, the group said   had hired them after taking lakhs of rupees. They told that Sukhdev Singh told them he would be coming to the bus stand in a few minutes to hand over appointment letters and documents.
 
 Satwinder Singh and his team laid a trap and caught the accused when he reached in his SUV. Police recovered five envelopes, five admit cards in the name of four boys and one girl having their photographs and a logo of Chandigarh Police on the top of each letters from his possession.
 
 Police said the accused cheated six persons of Rs 24 lakh.
 
 Kulwant Singh, one of the complainants, said Sukhdev Singh took Rs 7 lakh from him for his selection as head constable, while  , a local resident, said he paid Rs 3.70 lakh for his selection as a constable. Sukhdev Singh allegedly took Rs 4.70 lakh from one Bikramjeet Singh for the post of ASI and Rs 9 lakh from another person. 
 
 A local court sent Sukhdev Singh in three-day police custody.
 
 Police said his co-accused  , 39, a resident of Tarn Taran, is absconding and would be arrested soon.
 
 Modus operandi
 
 Sukhdev Singh, the kingpin of the gang, posed as a sub-inspector in the UT police. He convinced people that his relative Sukha had close contacts with senior officers and could recruit them in the police on the rank of ASI, head constable and constable. Sukhdev Singh has been involved in several cases of cheating in Haryana and Punjab.
 
 
