Recently, the two surprised their fans by meeting up for a nice and fancy dinner at Shilpa's home. Also present was Shilpa's brother Ashutosh. The three also clicked a lot of pictures together and were seen having a good time. It seems Arshi and Shilpa had a long private chat and even spent some happy moments together. Looks like they have let bygones be bygones. 
   



 
   




   



 Both the women, while inside the Bigg Boss 11 house, were initially seen bonding like soul sisters. But soon, as the game thickened, Arshi and Shilpa developed a certain distaste for one another. The negativity continued outside the house as well, when Shilpa did not turn up for Arshi's party, that she had thrown for her BB mates. Arshi had gone on record saying how she was completely disappointed with Shilpa's behavior and negative approach. When we asked Shilpa about the same, the actress clarified it all. She said, "There is no reason for not attending the party. In fact, I am not a party animal at all. My first party post-Bigg Boss was when Pawan Kumar simply dragged me to the party. I couldn't say no because I have known him for many years, from my first project Bhabhi. So it was like a home party for me. Also, just because I have won Bigg Boss, I cannot throw attitude for no reason and have the starry nature. I am not like that. I haven't attended many parties in all these years. So that's why. I was out til late that day. So after coming back, I really didn't feel going to the party and what's the point in doing a formality." She added, "There were some things that happened in the house that has been a bad patch but I don't want to sulk about it. I am genuinely not a party animal. Honestly speaking at the first go I even forgot that there was a party and I was out till late so when I came back and remembered about the party, it was already late and I didn't feel like going. That's all. There was nothing else about it." Meanwhile, news of Arshi and Shilpa been approached for a cricket-based TV reality show is doing the rounds. However, there is no confirmation yet.