HYDERABAD: After the   (NIA) special court acquitted five accused in the Mecca Masjid blast case, Aseemanand’s counsel   alleged it was a politically-motivated case foisted by the then Congress-led UPA government to send a message to a particular community that it was ‘saffron terror’.

 Without taking the name of former Union minister P Chidambaram, the advocate said Congress played politics with the case and the then Union home minister played a key role in it. “The Congress wanted to send a message to a particular community that it was a case of ‘saffron terror’, but in that also they failed,” Sharma alleged.
 
 Aseemanand’s counsel also said the main purpose of forming National Investigation Agency (NIA) was to probe cases related to cross-border terrorism, but the agency was being ‘misused’ by making them probe ‘politically-motivated’ cases. “For four years after the incident, they did not have any evidence against the accused. It was a political vendetta of the then government. The then Union home minister is squarely responsible for it,” defence counsel JP Sharma alleged.
 
 Talking about investigating officers of the Central Bureau of Investigation, Sharma alleged they acted on the directions of the   After 2010, the phrase ‘Hindu terror’ came into circulation and since then it took a political turn.
 
 The defence counsel said the   was not connected to other cases like Ajmer dargah blast or Samjautha train blast. The Central Bureau of Investigation in its chargesheet and later in the supplementary chargesheets filed by National Investigation Agency it was alleged that all these cases were part of a larger conspiracy to commit offences targeting places of worship of Muslims. The advocates alleged that evidence was fabricated by the investigation agency to prove their case, but it fell apart.
 
 Interestingly, after the verdict was pronounced, there was no jubilation, usually seen in high-profile cases. None of the family members or friends of the acquitted came to the court.
 
 After the verdict, Devendra Gupta would be shifted to Ajmeer, while Rajendar Chowdary and Lokesh Sharma might be sent to Panchkula as they were in judicial remand pertaining to other cases.
 
