GURUGRAM: The resident welfare association (RWA) of Pocket E, Sector 21 has moved National Green Tribunal (NGT) against South Delhi Municipal Corporation ( ) for “illegal, unlawful and unauthorised dumping of garbage” outside boundary wall of the sector, which is on the Gurugram-Delhi border near Bijwasan.

 The petition, filed by Citizen Welfare Association, also alleged that SDMC had built an illegal dhalaon (garbage dump with walls and roof) in  , next to the residential area. The first hearing in the case was held on Thursday, where the tribunal directed respondents to file their replies before the next hearing on May 24.
 
 MCG and Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) have also been made party to the case. 
 
 According to the petition, the issue has now been going on for over six years, since 2012, when SDMC started dumping waste in the area. A dhalaon was built next to residential houses nearly four years ago.
 
 “A delegation from our side had approached the Delhi government on the day they began building the dhalaon. We have approached everyone, from the chief minister to the corporators, but nothing has happened as of now,” said Chiranjiv Singh, president, CWA, and one of the petitioners. 
 
 The petition, which TOI accessed, claimed unauthorised and illegal dumping of garbage was adversely affecting the ecosystem and ecology of the area, raising environmental concerns, as well those relating to the community at large, which was being affected by the consequences of environmental degradation.
 
 When TOI visited the area, the wall of the dhalaon was found touching the boundary of the nearest house, and its stench reaching across the area. “It is impossible to live with this stench and the flies. Moreover, the waste is burnt in the open, which causes fires on some occasions. We use water hoses from rooftops to douse these fires, lest it spread to our houses,” said Colonel Dr Kothwal, whose house shares a boundary wall with the dhalaon. Other residents complained of similar problems. 
 
 There are at least 7-8 houses on the road that are immediately affected by the dumped garbage. Even those who live farther down the road have to face consequences. 
 
 “The waste includes leftover meat and birds often scavenge and leave them on people’s rooftops and porches. The situation, however, goes out of hand during the monsoon,” said Singh.
 
 “SDMC has given out tenders for compactors which will replace all the dhalaons in South Delhi. The work in this regard has started and will be completed within four months. Meanwhile, we will be reverting to NGT with our response in this case,” said SDMC mayor Kamaljeet Sehrawat.
 
 
