QUOTE: Slow learners or children with learning disabilities are actually the brightest, provided their imagination are given wings

 In an education system that works to the advantage of fast learners right from play school, a school teacher from   has been slowly weeding out learning disabilities among children in primary school though his innovative teaching methods. 
 
 “Slow learners or children with learning disabilities are actually the brightest, provided their imagination is given wings,” says S  
 
 Giving wings to many such children in the state, Jeyaraman, 53, a secondary grade teacher from   panchayat primary school in Trichy, is known more as a story teller than a teacher and has been across the state imparting tips on effective teaching methods among teachers.
 
 He has been so effective with his technique that the collector of Thiruvannamalai Collector posted him on deputation realising his need. Teachers were dumbstruck with his ability to make children read Tamil in a few hours who have been struggling to do and confined to the corners of the classroom. 
 
 Jeyaraman gets into the role of the story teller by dressing up like a king. He does not really narrate stories, but takes the children along with the story. 
 
 During one of his teaching sessions, he began by reaching out to every child by shaking their hand and starts the story by asking the children to imagine a jungle. His next asks them what can be found in a jungle. A few voices come out of from in anticipation - one says trees, another says out loud animals, water streams and so on.
 
 Jeyaraman’s story telling is never a one man show or an attempt to mesmerise children with the narration, but get them involved in the story, which eventually brings out their talents and hidden abilities without them even realising it. 
 
 “The idea is to inculcate interest and curiosity among children,” says Jeyaraman. This would help students know what they do not and speak out what they know, he adds. 
 
 Stressing that imagination plays a major role in anything that children learn, Jeyaraman says they always relate it with something. “Thus, when you ask them about something, they tend to narrate something they remember that happened along with it,” he said. 
 
 “I always ask teachers not to teach children, but teach them how to learn. We often fail to think what children think which leave many of them not realising their abilities,” said Jeyaraman.
 
 Recipient of many awards including the best innovator teacher award by the state government, Jeyaraman says that not many story tellers including teachers encourage participation of children, which is core of the issue. 
 
 His teaching methodologies are now taking shape of a book which is expected to release in the next few weeks. 
 
 TRACK RECORD 
 
 He has trained about 6,000 BEd students and over 8,000 teachers in effective teaching methodologies
 
 Recipient of   best innovator teacher award and Ratan Tata award by IIM Ahmedabad. 
 
 He feels that back benchers in primary schools can be great learners if their energy is channelled in the right direction 
 
 
