HYDERABAD: Police leave no opportunity to seek publicity when it comes to installation of CCTVs. Ironically, in a hit-and-run case wherein a woman died in a road accident a few days ago,   police reportedly asked the victim's family to arrange for better CCTV footage to track the erring motorist. 

 On April 23, 45-year-old N  , a resident of  , and her pregnant daughter Dharani were walking on the zebra crossing in Kukatpally on the National Highway 65. 
 
 Suddenly, a bike hit the mother-daughter duo. Malleshwari, who took the full impact of the crash, fell on the road and suffered a head injury. Luckily, her pregnant daughter escaped with minor injuries. After the accident, the biker gave a slip from the location after public gathered at the site. 
 
 A bleeding Malleshwari, a private employee, was rushed to hospital by her daughter. She succumbed on April 28. On the fateful day, the two were going for Dharani's routine medical check-up.
 
 After the accident, the victim's family lodged a complaint with Kukatpally police. Till now, the erring motorist was not traced. "We provided mishap footage to the police and it shows the biker fleeing. However, Kukatpally police told us the the bike number was not visible. So, the lower-rung staff told us to get better CCTV footage. From where can we get better footage? It is the responsibility of police to verify available CCTVs in the route course used by the biker. Till now, police has not traced the culprit," Mahender Babu, Malleshwari's brother, told TOI. 
 
 On the day Malleshwari succumbed, the family members got a call from a police writer seeking details of the injuries and victim's photo. 
 
 Kukatpally police denied the allegations. "The footage the victim's family is talking about was provided to them by police. After the mishap, I instructed a sub-inspector to immediately obtain available CCTV footage and, if possible, improvise the footage already available to know the bike's registration number. Why will police ask the victim to get footage? The allegations levelled are false," ACP Kukatpally N   said. 
 
 
