NEW DELHI: In a rare gesture, the Delhi high court has publicly applauded the efforts of subordinate judiciary in reducing pendency.

 Recently, judges of all district   in the city received a note from the Registrar General  , conveying the HC’s appreciation for making a big dent in pendency in district courts in the past ten months.
 
 HC’s applaud came after latest figures revealed that judges of district courts decided 15,215 five-year-old cases and 9,862 ten-year-old cases in a period of ten months.
 
 As per sources, a high-powered   comprising Justices S Ravindra Bhat, Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and   is monitoring the efforts and subsequent progress by subordinate judiciary in reducing the  .
 
 The committee is also looking after case management system of the state-level courts and had earlier this year begun work to identify means to reduce arrears in district courts last year. The   panel took its first step in this direction in May last year when it directed all the district and sessions judges of Delhi to draw up action plans with definite dates for disposal of five and ten-year-old cases.
 
 “The success in the disposal of these cases lies in the sustained collaborative efforts put in by the committee of the high court, the district and sessions judges and all the judicial officers of Delhi,” a source said, indicating that the data reveals that there were 58,118 cases which were five years old and 21,250 cases which were ten years old on July 1, 2017 pending in district courts.
 
 Over the past ten months, these figures have come down to 42,903 for five-year-old cases and 11,388 for ten-year-old cases.
 
 The committee has set an ambitious target for the six district courts to wipe out the backlog of 72,000 cases (as on July 1, 2017) by January 1 next year and had in February brought out a notification to this effect. HC’s panel itself is an outcome of the national courts management system set up by the Supreme Court in 2012 to “set standards of performance for courts and address the issues of quality, responsiveness and timelines.”
 
 
