

 
 
 
 : First Indian woman to complete ultra-cycling championship
 
 Preeti Saran, 35, is the first woman Super Randonneur or long-distance cyclist of Punjab. In 2016, the 35-year-old from Hoshiarpur achieved the feat of cycling from Delhi to Khanna in Ludhiana in 33.5 hours.
 
 Preeti has also completed the Manali-Leh stretch on her cycle and considers it the most challenging. That is no surprise, considering that the route took her through Khardung-La, the highest motorable road in the world. The memory still transports her to the world of high mountains. “It was out of the world. These races are of fixed distances and have to be completed within specified time limits,” she said.
 
 
  
 
 In ways more than one, the sport is as much a test of mental toughness as physical prowess for Preeti, who carved a niche in a game dominated by men. “I participated in the 200 Brevet des Randonneurs Mondiaux (BRM), which started from Hoshiarpur to   and then back. I covered it in 11.5 hours. Later, I signed up for 300 BRM from Delhi to Karnal and back with the Delhi Randonneurs. I covered that event in 15 hours and 13 minutes. Subsequently, I did my 400 BRM from Hoshiarpur to Jammu and back, a very challenging route with rolling climbs, in 24 hours.”
 
 On her love for cycling, Preeti said, “Although I don't participate in competitive cycling, what draws me to this game is the test of endurance, nerves and the impetus one gets by surpassing people’s expectations.”
 
 It’s true that Preeti’s mother wasn’t quite comfortable with her daughter’s love for cycling. But her husband has played a pivotal role in pushing her to raise the bar. “My mother was skeptical keeping in mind the safety factor for women, which is a burning issue in the country,” she said, adding that her husband stood by her through thick and thin. “He has always ensured that I am always agile enough to combat adversities coming my way.”
 
 
 
 
 : Has won Raid de Himalaya Xtreme 11 times
 
 Suresh Rana, who belongs to Karjan village in Manali won the Raid de Himalaya Xtreme 11 out of 19 times and was crowned Raid Legend. From a small town orchardist and motor workshop owner to India’s finest cross-country rally driver, Rana’s life is inspirational.
 
 
  
 
 For the better part of his life, he cultivated fruits commercially and also managed a garage. He grew up watching WRC/WSC events on TV and honed himself for sporting victories by exploring the sharp curves of Kullu-Manali in his Maruti Suzuki Gypsy.
 
 During one such sojourn, he was spotted by a few Raid de Himalaya officials who suggested that he participate in an upcoming rally. In 2001, he participated in the first Raid de Himalaya event, the world’s highest rally raid. After that, there was no looking back for Suresh Rana. The powerhouse of talent is the ‘One Man Show’ not only in the Raid de Himalaya event, but also for other car rallies such as Desert Storm, SJOBA Thunderbolt Rally, Arunachal Speed Fest & Dakshin Dar. In a country with a limited motorsport fan base, Rana has bagged more awards than any other rallyist.
 
 
 
 
  Has won 3 national dirt-biking events
 
 Prithvi Singh Dhillon, the winner of the sixth round of the MRF Mogrip International Super Cross Championship held in Pune recently, raises the bar with every win. Now, he is gearing up for the MRF National Championship, the first round of which will be held in Kochi.
 
 
  
 
 As Chandigarh did not have a dirt racing track, it was very difficult for him to compete in tournaments, but his father Jatinder Dhillon had the perfect solution. For the past three years, Prithvi has been practising at the ridge in Sarangpur, which is full of natural hurdles.
 
 He won in the SX2 foreign-private category for his fourth podium finish after the MRF Super Cross Championship Round 5 in Indore earlier this year. This is a dream the family lived for. His father, a government school teacher, spent his life savings to get his son a Honda CRF 250, a Honda CR125, a Yamaha YZ 250F and now a Kawasakin KX250F worth Rs 7 lakh. Jatinder sold his car and lived an austere life to buy his son the costliest of bikes. Fueled by his father’s sacrifice, Prithvi rode to glory as one of the most sought-after bikers in the national circuit.
 
 
 
 
 
 : India's first woman base-jumper
 
 Archana Sardana, a 42-year-old adventure enthusiast, is India’s first woman civilian Building Aerial Span Earth (BASE) jumper, often jumping from a bridge of over 3,600 metres (12,000 feet).
 
 
  
 
 Although Sardana had a provincial childhood in Srinagar, her calling for the outdoors and adventure came much later in life. Today, at the age of 42, she is India’s first, and possibly only, woman BASE jumper. She is also a skydiver, a scuba diving instructor and mountaineer. A mother of two and wife of a submariner, (an electrical officer of the Indian Navy, Commander Rajiv Sardana), Archana is one of those rare Indian women who ventured into outdoor sports after marriage. She had an arranged marriage and it was Rajiv who encouraged her to take up adventure sports. “My first outdoor trip was a 42-km walkathon in Vizag. In retrospect, it seems a small step, but it changed my outlook forever. Before I knew it, I was doing an adventure course in the   with my husband.”
 
 BASE jumps generally take place close to the object serving as the jump platform. Since the jump is closer to the earth, there is the possibility of huge impact. According to some scientific studies, it is the world’s most dangerous sport.
 
 
 
 
 
 : First-ever team from India to win Rainforest Challenge Global Series
 
 
  
 
 Chandigarh off-roaders Gurmeet Virdi (above) and Kirpal Singh Tung have put the country on the global map by becoming the first-ever team from India to win the grand finale of the 20th Rainforest Challenge (RFC) Global Series in   recently. Despite the race being one of the toughest off-roading events in the world, Gurmeet and Kirpal came up trumps.
 
 “This sense of achievement is beyond explanation,” Gurmeet said. Talking about how it all started for them, Gurmeet said, “When I got into this sport in 2010-11, I was inspired by people like Kirpal. Their passion was infectious and I found myself in competitions like RFC India and others.” The infectious passion laid the foundation of their group. “In 2010, I met three to four persons who shared my interest and we formed a group called Gerrari Offroaders.
 
 
 
 
 
 : First Indian woman to finish the Desert Storm, one of the toughest extreme biking event
 
 
  
 
 The latest among Chandigarh’s biker girls, Sarah Kashyap’s list of achievements includes finishing third in the Indian National Rally Championship (INRC) in Vadodara. Sarah’s story is turning into India’s very own ‘Street Hawk’ series, with the wheels of her bike blazing a lasting trail. She is the first woman motorcyclist to finish the Desert Storm. She has not just created a record but also ended 17th among 36 motorbike participants – without a single restart or penalty point. “I'm the first woman biker from India to have participated in all major motorsport rallies in India, including, Raid de Himalaya and Desert Storm,” she said.
 
 Sarah comes from a diverse background ranging from studies as a psychology honours graduate to working in Google to taking up a job as assistant professor in   back home. But even as her life went around in roller coaster loops, her hands on the bike handle remained stable.
 
