KOHIMA: Former chief minister and veteran   leader  , who resigned from the party on Saturday evening, joined BJP on Monday at an event in   in the presence of BJP general secretary in charge of the northeast Ram Madhav.

 Former Independent MLA  , along with 11 other leaders, also joined the saffron party. Last week, former minister Y Patton had joined the BJP after leaving the ruling Naga People's Front (NPF), the saffron party's partner for 15 years.
 
 Attributing his switch to his desire to see a resolution of the protracted Naga peace talks through, Chishi said, "Only national parties like Congress or BJP can do it (resolve the Naga issue), but with much regret, I have to divulge that Congress is in no mind to bring about a final settlement of the Naga issue. It is only BJP that has the guts to initiate and finalize the solution between the Centre and the Naga people."
 
 Civil society organizations have been demanding that the assembly election be postponed until a "solution" to the Naga talks is reached. Chishi accused the present government of "robbing" development funds, leaving the state exchequer empty and leaving government employees and students without remuneration and stipends. Calling the tenure of the present assembly the "worst five years in the history of  ", Chishi said all regional parties have "cheated" the Naga people.
 
 Resigning from Congress was a "painful step", he said. "I had no alternative. I had to quit," he added. Chishi, who served as chief minister for a month in 1990, had cited "trust deficit" as one of the reasons for leaving the party. He had lost in the last election, in which he contested on a Congress ticket from the Dimapur-I constituency.
 
 The Nagaland Pradesh Congress Committee hit back at his "new-found love for BJP-RSS". The media cell issued a statement, saying, "Many before him joined the NPF-BJP bandwagon on the pretext of bringing about an early solution to the Naga political issue. It remains a perfect alibi for political defectors." It added that the former chief minister should try and "protect the dignity of the office of the chief minister" instead of joining the "chorus of political defectors".
 
 Chishi had been picked by Rahul Gandhi as one of the eight members of a coordination committee for the Nagaland election. Brushing aside any concerns about his exit, Congress said it is in the process of filtering out leaders who are responsible, directly or indirectly, for the plight of the party over the past 15 years. "An opportunity is being presented to all secular and progressive minded people in the state to join hands with Congress and defeat the combined regional and communal forces of NPF-BJP and its offshoots like NDPP which have destroyed the state in every sphere of governance," it added.
 
 
