CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday granted interim bail for six weeks to four persons initially arrested by Haryana police for their alleged involvement in the infamous gang rape, murder and robbery case of   in Mewat district.

 Justice Surinder Gupta passed these orders while hearing a petition filed by accused Sandeep, Amarjeet, Karamjeet and Rahul Verma — all residents of Mohammadpur Ahir village of Mewat. Confirming the development, counsel for the petitioners, advocate Pardeep Rapria, said the court had also asked the CBI to produce evidence collected by it against the accused.
 
 Rapria said the the CBI, during hearing of the case, had informed the court that it could not find any evidence against the accused, but their investigations were still on.
 
 These four accused had approached the HC for bail because the CBI had already submitted a chargesheet against four other accused belonging to one ‘Axle Gang’ in the same case.
 
 The case hit national headlines when, on the intervening night of August 24-25, 2016, a family in Dingerheri was attacked. While a Muslim couple was killed, several members of their family were injured and a 21-year-old woman and 16-year-old girl of the family allegedly gang-raped.
 
 Police initially registered the case on August 25, 2016, and the force had claimed big success in the case after arresting four local youths within four days of the crime. However, there was resentment among villagers, who claimed that the arrested youth were not involved in the crime, after which the case was sent to CBI for probe. Finally, on December 5, 2016, CBI had taken over the investigation of the case.
 
 On September 13, 2017, Gurugram police had arrested four persons identified as Hemant Chauhan, Ayan Chauhan, Vinay alias   and Jai Bhagwan of ‘Axle gang’. They are now in judicial custody, after CBI arrested them. During the CBI probe, the accused confessed to their involvement in the Dingerheri case, and the chargesheet was also been submitted against them before the special CBI court in Panchkula.
 
 
