MARGAO: Cracking the murder case of 53-year old Baptisto D'Costa,   police on Tuesday arrested 21-year old Amaan Gopal  , a   native, on charges of killing the Colva resident in cold blood. Police sources said that the bisexual orientation of the deceased, leading to his sexual relationship with the accused, ended in the murder. 

 Addressing reporters, South Goa SP   said that D'Costa would often force Kavitiya into homosexual relations. The 21-year old, fed up with D'Costa's "perverse sexual demands", got rid of him for good.
 
 D'Costa had befriended Kavitiya, employed as a driver in a construction firm in Colva, in October 2017. The duo alongwith two of D'Costa's employees would often dine and drink together. D'Costa was bisexual. He was married and stayed with his wife in Colva, but was also using a couple of his drinking companions for his sexual pleasures, Gawas said.
 
  "The deceased would call Kavitiya frequently and invite him over (to satisfy his sexual urges). While initially the deceased would pay, it was when Kavitiya borrowed money from D'Costa, that his demands grew. Exasperated, he devised a plan to rid of him," Gawas said. 
 
 On Saturday evening, Kavitiya asked D'Costa to meet him near the Colva church to go for a "bout of pleasure". "Kavitiya purchased some drinks and chicken dishes before the duo proceeded to Betalbatim beach. After a round or two of drinks, the deceased indulged in sexual activities. Finding D'Costa in a vulnerable position, Kavitiya took out a knife and slit D'Costa's throat and stabbed him in the neck. He died instantly," Gawas said. After committing the murder, Kavitiya lifted the gold ornaments and cash of Rs 10,000 found on D'Costa's body. 
 
 While the police had been interrogating him since the last two days, Kavitiya persistently denied his involvement in the crime. "It was only when we confronted him with all evidence that pointed to his presence at the spot of the crime at the time of the incident that he admitted to having committed the murder," Gawas said. 
 
 
