GANDHINAGAR: Pramod Muthalik, the chief of the Sri Rama Sene in Karnataka, met Vishwa Hindu Parishad(VHP) leader Pravin Togadia on Saturday. In March 2009, Muthalik was banned from entering Mangalore by the then BJP government of Karnataka after the infamous attack by his outfit on young men and women inside a Mangalore pub. 

 Muthalik said on Saturday that Togadia is being targeted because he had raised his voice against the BJP, for ignoring the Ram Mandir demand. He said that whatever the BJP is today in the whole of India, is because of the RSS and VHP. Togadia had dedicated his life to reconstruction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya and to the cause of Hindus, Muthalik said. 
 
 “What BJP is doing with him is very unfortunate. Ignoring the Ram Mandir demand will damage the BJP in the Karnataka elections and also in the 2019   elections,” he said.
 
 “I have known Pravinji since 2000, when I was working for   in South India, He is like my Guruji and mentor. Whatever the BJP is today in South India as well as in the whole of India, is because of the RSS and VHP,” Muthalik said.
 
 He further said that he was upset when he saw tears in Togadia’s eyes.
 
 “He is genuinely worried that he may be killed in a police encounter,” Muthalik said. “Hence, to express my solidarity and support for him I came here to meet him. I condemn the way government agencies have dealt with him.” 
 
 Muthalik alleged that those in the central goverment are behind Togadia’s ‘ill-treatment in his home state’. 
 
 “The BJP and   are in power only because of issues like Ram Mandir, Article 370 and Gau Raksha,” he said. 
 
 “The central government has been conspiring against Togadia because he intensified the demand for Ram temple. If BJP does not stop harassing Pravinji, the party will damage its prospects in the coming Karnataka assembly elections and the 2019 Lok Sabha elections,” Muthalik said. 
 
 The president of the Telangana   and former Bajrang Dal leader, T N Murari, also met Togadia on Saturday. Murari said he had come to Gujarat to wish Togadia a speedy recovery and brought Sabrimala prasad for him. “The BJP gained acceptance in South India only because of the Ayodha movment and the fight against ‘love jihad’ and killing of cows,” he said. 
 
 
