HYDERABAD: Will   really be cleaned? Principal secretary (municipal administration) Arvind Kumar, who has sought suggestions from the public on cleaning of Musi, also faced questions from sceptics on whether the government was serious about the process. 

 Many people responded to Kumar on Twitter where he asked all from   to provide suggestions, as the department was planning a strategy for an eco-friendly   riverfront development.
 
 "Please tweet your suggestions to be a part of our action plan asap," Kumar had stated on Twitter.
 
 There was a legitimate question from Vindya Manuri who said, "Please don't mind, I don't believe anything will be done. I have been hearing for 30 years."
 
 The senior IAS officer responded saying: "I share your concern.. this makes us more determined to deliver meaningfully in a defined time frame"
 
 Kumar got several suggestions on how to develop the Musi. One suggested that it should be developed on the lines of Adayar river in Chennai and another suggested it should be like Sabarmati in Ahmedabad. Vamsi Raj, a hydrologist, stated that Musi river starts from   near   and ends near Khammam, before joining the Krishna river. He was appreciative of the plan for the river flowing through the city. 
 
 "Protecting this dying river from encroachments and industrial effluents is a task by itself!" he said.
 
 Hyderabadis are excited about the Musi river development plan as could be gauged from another response. "Please start the actual project as soon as possible, having a 'live' river flowing through the city will create a huge forward momentum that will put Hyderabad's glory on the world stage like never before!" said Madhu Batcha.
 
 Another person came with a suggestion on how to remove organic and bacterial contamination, iron and manganese. One Chandramouli Jaddu offered to volunteer for the Musi work in his holidays."Music river front project should ensure fresh water 365 days. Gandipet and Himayatsagar should be linked to Rangareddy-Palamuru and Kaleswarm projects ensuring live Musi river, which boosts water tourism creating local jobs," Prof NLN Reddy of CBIT said.
 
 
