NAGPUR: Despite all the controversies surrounding Common Law Admission Test ( ) 2018, the results were announced on Thursday on its website. This year, the city’s probable topper is Avanish Deshpande.

 
 CLAT is a law entrance examination which is being conducted online since 2015. The exam gives entry into premier law colleges of India.
 
 Though Avanish couldn’t be contacted, as he is out on vacations, he recently spoke to TOI where he said that he was satisfied with his paper. He, however, had to face many problems at the examination centre.
 
 “The students had to face problems because of the mismanagement by the centre. I had a tough time solving maths which was expected, but I was prepared as I was giving mock tests regularly. Students should give as many tests possible to clear their doubts and be confident with their preparations,” he said. 
 
 The responsibility of conducting the exam is given to one of the National Law Universities every year by method of rotation. This year, the exam was conducted by National University of Advanced Legal Studies (NUALS), Kochi.
 
 After the exam, many students complained of blatant mismanagement on part of the organizing committee. According to them, there were innumerable technical glitches during the exam. Students from all over the country said they faced many problems like the screen going blank, the timer being incorrect, making them loose precious time.
 
 Some also reported misbehaviour and ignorance on part of the invigilators, adding to the pressure during the two hour examination.
 
 “The exam was conducted in a haphazard manner by   this year and technical glitches were reported in around 200 centres all over India. This is reflected in the results as well. Despite it being a fairly easy paper, many students could not get what they deserved,” said Avinash Naidu, director of  .
 
 “Many say that forming a permanent committee for conducting this prestigious law entrance test is a crucial step. It is high time such steps are taken and the future of children is not jeopardized further,” said Nihit Mor from TIME coaching institute.
 
 (Reporting by  )
 
