CHANDIGARH: From Mr   to  , the   as a teacher at the   (PU) was full of achievements. He joined the university as a senior lecturer in the department of economics in Hoshirapur in 1957 and went on to become the youngest professor in the department at the age of 33. 

 A teacher of high intellect, Singh started publishing his papers on economics soon after joining the university. Going by the records of the university, his research paper on "Monetary policy and economic expansion" was published in February 1959, followed by another paper on "Balance of payments and economic growth" published in July 1960. 
 
 As per the university records, Singh was granted study leave for PhD research in September 1960 and he went to Nuffield College, Oxford. At that time, he was the reader. He completed his research and came back as a professor of economics in 1963.
 
 The year he was back in the university, he published two papers. "India and the European Common Market" was published in February 1963 and then another paper on "Export Strategy for the Take-off" was published in July 1963. Meanwhile, he was also invited to participate in a seminar on International Trade organised by the Indian School of International Studies, New Delhi, in March, 1963.
 
 In 1964, Singh supervised two PhD scholars including Des Raj Bansal, whose topic of research was "Economic growth and inter-regional disparities in Inida; 1951-63 a study of the extent, causes and measures to reduce regional disparities in the level of development" and Vinod Kumar Gupta whose topic was "Monopoly and concentration in Indian Industries; Extent, Causes, Effects and Policy. Moreover, he published a book titled "India's export trends and prospects for self-sustained growth" in 1964. 
 
 He was invited by the Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Calcutta to address a group of business executives taking part in a four-week course on marketing and export promotion. He delivered two lectures there: India's agriculture exports: problems and prospects and India's trade relations with West Asia and Africa -the emerging perspective. 
 
 He was invited by the East-West Centre, University of Hawaii, Honolulu, to take part in an international conference on economic corporation for trade and development in the Pacific that was held from February 3 to 7, 1964. His paper "Manufactured exports from developing countries: problems and prospects", was brought out by the East-West Centre, University of Hawaii, Honolulu, USA, in 1964. 
 
 And then came another year of achievements. He was nominated by the Union government to be a member of the northern region export promotion advisory committee. He was engaged as a consultant by the ministry of commerce, GOI, New Delhi, for helping in the preparation of India's case during the Kennedy round of tariff negotiations. 
 
 Singh was also invited to join the UN World Trade Conference Secretariat, Geneva. He was on leave for two years to join the secretariat with effect from January, 1966. That was Dr Singh's last year at the department. 
 
 
