MUMBAI: Police are searching for a   who allegedly stole  , diamonds and cash from flats of two   at two highrises in   on February 26 this year and December 26 last year. The accused, who identified herself as ‘Jadhav’, stole valuables totally worth Rs 23 lakh few hours after she was employed. She used to locate the valuables few hours after she would get the job and leave the place on the pretext of getting her identity card and antecedents to submit to her employer.

 Powai police retrieved her image on February 26 from CCTV footage at Avalon Building in  , where businessman Ashish Khandelwal (45) lives. “Looking at the modus operandi, we went through the old case and found out that she is the same woman against whom a case was registered last year on December 27. CCTV footage from both spots found the same woman,” said a police officer.
 
 Khandelwal employed the woman after she approached the family in the afternoon on February 26 with a reference from his mother-in-law who stays in Worli. In the complaint, Khandelwal said, “The woman was allowed to come to my flat after the watchman called on the intercom. She introduced herself as ‘Jadhav’ and said she heard about a help’s requirement from the watchman where my mother-in-law lives. When I asked for her identity card and her antecedents, she said she would get them the next day.”
 
 Jadhav is suspected to have stolen cash, gold and diamond ornaments worth Rs 16 lakh when the Khandelwal couple was fast asleep. “The next morning, Jadhav left the flat on the pretext of getting her documents. Khandelwal’s wife got suspicious when she did not return. When she checked the cupboard locker, she found the valuables missing,” said the investigators. 
 
 In the December case, the accused stole ornaments worth Rs 7 lakh from a businessman’s flat at Lake Homes in Powai.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (zone X) Navinchandra Reddy confirmed to TOI that the theft was committed by a woman who approached the Khandelwals. “They employed the woman without any verification or checking of antecedents. A team has been formed to track down the accused,” said Reddy. A case under the Indian Penal Code section 381 (theft by servant) has been registered against the woman.
 
 Residents of Hiranandani have started circulating her photograph on WhatsApp so that no one else is conned.
 
 
