BENGALURU: The Centre’s move to introduce electoral bonds to bring in transparency in election funding has left political parties in poll-bound   confused over their legality and benefits.

 While the BJP has welcomed the initiative, the ruling   and JD(S) feel it’s a strategic move by the Centre to curb political funding, and have decided to tread cautiously as Karnataka will be the first state to go to polls after the launch of electoral bonds. Political experts feel the new method may not help end irregularities in political donations and the best option would be to introduce state funding of elections.
 
  working president Dinesh Gundu Rao said the BJP, which sees maximum corporate donations, wants to stop other political parties from getting donations by introducing the scheme. "There is no transparency in this scheme as the bearer instrument will not carry the name of the payee. The BJP continues to fool the people in the name of reforms to safeguard their sponsors," he added.
 
 "The Centre should have consulted all political parties before launching it. National parties at the Centre and state will gain advantage by implementing this scheme, considering they have corporate funding. In fact, this could be a plan of the ruling BJP to wipe out regional parties,"said Kona Reddi, a JD(S) leader.
 
 However, BJP leader and former law minister S Suresh Kumar welcomed the move, saying elections have been the root cause of corruption in the country. Kumar said, electoral bond is an important milestone in electoral reforms. "Now that donations can be made through electoral bonds, it’ll be clear to which political party they are being given and help make such funding more transparent," he said.
 
 "Mere floating of electoral bonds won’t necessarily make political funding transparent. The fact that politics/elections provide an opportunity for black money to become white means as long as the source continues, lack of transparency will also continue," said Sandeep Shastri, a political analyst.
 
 Added Prof Harish Ramaswamy, another political analyst: "Transparency comes when political funding is known to both the donor and the receiver. If it is confidential and the party which receives it doesn’t share the details, where is the transparency? What if a terror-funding agency makes contributions to a party in the name of corporate funding? An open-cheque system is better, accountable and transparent."
 
 
 
 
 Electoral bonds can be bought from specified branches of SBI in multiples of Rs 1,000, Rs 10,000, Rs one 1 lakh, Rs 10 lakh or Rs 1 crore. The bearer instrument will not carry the name of the payee and will have a life of 15 days. During this time, the bonds can be used for making donations in favour of registered political parties and they can only be encashed in a pre-declared account of the receiver. These bonds can be bought only after fulfilling all the existing Know Your Customer (KYC) norms and by making payments from a bank account. They will be available for purchase for 10 days each in the months of January, April, July and October.
 
 
 
 
 A five-member panel from the   (ECI) will hold meetings on January 9 and 10 with state government officials to review preparedness for the upcoming assembly elections.
 
 Led by senior deputy election commissioner Umesh Sinha, the team will have senior officials Sandeep Saxena, Dhirendra Ojha, Nikhil Kumar and B C Patra. According to sources, the recommendations made by the team will form the basis for determining Karnataka’s poll schedule.
 
 The team will interact with representatives of different political parties, education department officials, the chief secretary and the director and inspector general of police.
 
 
