NEW DELHI: Delhi high court of Tuesday dismissed the plea by Tata group-owned Indian Hotels Company Limited (IHCL), challenging the tender procedure for the proposed auction of luxury hotel   by New Delhi Municipal Council.

 A bench of Justices S Ravindra Bhat and A K Chawla said it is “apparent that the complex nature of eligibility conditions that   has insisted upon, while considering tenders for the   plot, are based on thought and deliberation” and refused to intervene in a policy decision.
 
 The court had reserved its order on May 3 after hearing brief arguments of the counsel for IHCL and NDMC, which had claimed that it had not prejudiced the   in any way.
 
 In April 2017, the   had allowed the civic agency to e-auction the iconic five-star hotel, which is currently being run by Tata group’s IHCL. IHCL argued before the high court that NDMC had failed to consider last year’s SC order that they had an unblemished track-record and should be given weightage in the tender.
 
 The property, owned by NDMC, was given to IHCL on a lease for 33 years. After the lease ended, the company was given temporary extensions before the civic agency decided to auction its premium hotels in Lutyens’ Delhi — Taj Mansingh, The Connaught and Hotel Asian International.
 
 IHCL had, in its plea, questioned the revenue sharing model in the tender document prepared by NDMC and argued that the civic agency stood to lose money if the auction went through.
 
 Senior advocate  , appearing for the civic agency, however, maintained it had considered the track-record of IHCL and that is why they did not put any condition on them, while several conditions were imposed on other bidders. He said the bid conditions contained provisions for a minimum guaranteed sum payable and making only those entities, which have a turnover of at least Rs 200 crore, eligible for the bidding.
 
 Jain said that it was NDMC’s prerogative to decide the tender conditions and that it was not discriminating against anyone.
 
 The apex court had earlier allowed the plea of NDMC that IHCL cannot have the right to refusal in the auctioning. The bench, however, asked the civic body to grant six months’ “breathing time” to the company to vacate the hotel in case they lose out in the e-auction.
 
 IHCL had on November 8, 2016, approached the apex court against Delhi HC’s order that had cleared the decks for auctioning of the iconic property. 
 
 
