NAGPUR: Around 42 officers of inspector rank in the state, including three from city and another who had been transferred here, now have to choose between facing disciplinary action or swearing they had nothing to do with the political recommendation for various benefits like transfers to choice posts.

 A circular, a copy of which is with TOI, has been issued by the establishment wing of the state police headquarters in the first week of this month to all units, urging senior officials to ask the concerned inspectors to furnish explanations. The politicians from whom favours were allegedly taken include at least three cabinet ministers, city’s former   mayor Maya Iwnate, MLA and MLCs, and others.
 
 In Nagpur, the circular has led to chaos, as incumbent officials claimed to be unaware of the circular until TOI brought it to their notice and forwarded a copy for their reference. 
 
 It is now learnt that a similar circular would be issued for other ranks of officers too. IG (establishment)   said the circular, originally from the general administration department (GAD), is meant for ‘all government employees’ irrespective of ranks. 
 
 “The stricture for the other officials is coming shortly,” said Vhatkar, adding that such a circular is “nothing new and had been issued some years ago too”. “The GAD circular is for all the government departments and not exclusively for police,” he said.
 
 The inspectors, whose names have been issued along with the circular, have to either furnish in writing to their senior authorities stating they had nothing to do with the recommendations or else be ready to face action as per the provisions of the   (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1979. The replies of the concerned PIs are to be sent to the State Director General of Police by February 15.
 
 The circular also stated the inspectors who do not send replies would be considered as having taken the recommendation letters from the politicians. 
 
 Iwnate, now accorded status of a minister as part of the central commission for the uplift and protection of the rights of the backward sections, had made recommendations for Solapur-based inspector Shahji Pawar. She said that the letter was issued in good faith.
 
 “Our supporters come to meet us for various works and we try to help. We cannot dash the expectations of a common man who comes to us with a lot of hope,” she said.
 
 
