KOCHI: E Cottage at SRM Road, the home of Kochi's musical family, was silent as guitarist Emile Isaacs, the eldest among his generation passed away on Wednesday at the age of 70.

 Though his musical journey began with violin, a favourite of his father and grandfather, Emile entered the world of music with electric and bass guitar, adding colours to the voices of the Kerala favourites, K J Yesudas and  . He was the elder brother of Eloy Isaacs, the guitarist of Kerala-based band 13 AD.
 
 Renowned for his technicality in the music industry, he won the hearts not just in Kerala but across the world. "He had fans all over but majority of his fans were in Kolkata, where he spent major part of his professional life," said Usha Uthup, with whom Emile worked for over 30 years. He was also in-charge of her studio as the sound engineer, recording works of musicians like Hemanth Kumar and Pandit Ravi Shankar.
 
 Ten years ago, he suffered a stroke, which paralyzed his left side. This put a sudden end to his music career. After the stroke, he left Kolkata and moved back to his home in Kochi. The walls of his house are decorated with pictures of Emile during his active days when he toured all seven continents performing with Uthup. During these days, he was not just exposed to personalities from the field of music but also from various walks of life, including   and  .
 
 In the sixties, he was the lead guitarist of the music troupe formed by K J Yesudas. Swayed by the heavy sounds of bass guitar, it remained his instrument of choice for the rest of his career.
 
 He later formed a band, Elite Aces and Uthup made her debut in Kerala with his band. "He was a close family friend and a great musician. He was a pioneer of sorts in his own genre of music and the way he played the bass guitar," she said. "He was very actively involved in music. Even the day before his stroke he performed in a concert. Thereafter, he could not play the guitar anymore as his left side had given out. He could not even travel and this was frustrating for him," said Neil Isaacs, Emile's son who is working in Dubai. His health had been deteriorating for the past three months, as he was suffering from breathlessness.
 
 His Fender bass guitar that has been untouched for the past 10 years is kept safely at his house in Edapally. His funeral will be held on Thursday at Mount Carmel Church, Chathiyath at 2.30pm.
 
 
