NEW DELHI: BJP-TDP relations might get back to a more even keel with the Centre acceding to   chief minister Chandrababu Naidu’s demand for financial support by working out an “extrabudgetary” route to provide funds required for the state’s development and reconstruction activities.

 TDP’s ties with BJP have become increasingly strained with the former claiming that the state’s needs for overcoming the fiscal pangs caused by   and loss of Hyderabad as its capital had been ignored in the Budget and followed heightened bickering with state BJP leaders.
 
 The state had initially suggested the externally aided projects (EAP) route but this was found to be somewhat time consuming as it would require sanction of agencies such as World Bank and Japan International Cooperation Agency. The state also proposed possible funding through Nabard, but this would reduce the borrowing space of the government as the funds would be added to its balance sheet.
 
 The Centre is now likely to fund the state’s plans through special dispensation for Andhra Pradesh that allows a central assistance of 90:10 instead of the usual 60:40.
 
 
 
 
 The funds will be tagged for specific projects that the state has argued have been pending despite assurances in the past.
 
 TDP’s urgency is clearly linked to a desire to deliver results ahead of the 2019 assembly elections that coincide with the Lok Sabha election and is further spurred by tardy progress in the construction of a new capital at Amaravati and failure to fully utilise funds for the construction of government and judicial buildings. Several welfare schemes announced soon after Naidu assumed office in 2014 have added to the financial strain.
 
 Jaitley’s remarks came after TDP members trooped into the well in   raising slogans over delay in implementation of the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act.
 
 Making a brief intervention in Rajya Sabha, Jaitley said, “I think a solution by which an amount can be given through an alternative mechanism is being worked out. I have asked the expenditure secretary today to immediately call the finance secretary of AP to Delhi and work out procedural formalities, so that it can be done.” he added, “That amount will be the same. Let's be assured that there should not be any difficulty,” he said. The MPs demanded a financial package for the state, while asking the government to “honour its commitments” made during bifurcation.
 
