MUMBAI: The Bombay high court has said it cannot be presumed that the anti-atrocities law meant to protect Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes is misused in each and every case. The significant high court order came days after the   said the law was being used to “blackmail and wreak vengeance” on innocent citizens.

 “We cannot proceed on the footing that the law is abused in every case,” said a division bench of Justices   and  . “The law is found to be constitutional and valid. The prohibition against grant of anticipatory bail is equally legal and valid.”
 
 
 
 
 The bench was hearing a petition filed by Solapur resident  , who was slapped with charges under the stringent Schedule Caste and Schedule Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act following a road rage incident. The fight happened after the complainant’s motorbike hit Kadave. Both Kadave and the other person had filed complaints against each other. The allegation against Kadave was that he had assaulted and abused the complainant who belonged to the   community in the name of his caste. Kadave’s plea for pre-arrest bail was rejected by the sessions court, which cited Section 18 of the anti-atrocities law that prohibits grant of anticipatory bail under the Act.
 
 Kadave’s lawyers cited the apex court’s March 20, 2018, judgment which said that the special law was being used to settle scores.
 
 “We see no merit in the appeal nor in the argument and the attempt made before us by relying on the judgment of the Supreme Court. That judgment delivered is essentially determining the controversy as to whether the whole enactment can be used to settle scores against the superiors in public service or working privately,” said the high court division bench. It said the apex court had termed it a false case as a superior officer was implicated after he entered adverse remarks against a junior employee. “The entire data in relation to false implications under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Act has been referred in the backdrop of the abuse of the law,” said the high court while refusing relief for Kadave.
 
 Kadave claimed that he was falsely implicated in the case. The high court said the trial court had rightly rejected his plea that the prohibition from granting pre-arrest bail did not apply in his case. “(This is) not a case where the ingredients of the offence of atrocity alleged against Kadave are not made out,” the high court held.
 
