Surat: Four students of class VI of Seventh Day Adventist School suffered burn injuries while eight others had a providential escape after their school van caught fire on Ghod Dod Road early on Thursday morning. The van, which was illegally carrying the schoolchildren, was fitted with a CNG kit. It was also carrying more children than actually permitted as per rules. Three students suffered burn injuries, while another had a wound in a foot and they are being treated at Mission Hospital in Athwalines. At around 7am, the van owner Vishnu Mishra was taking the children to school. Suddenly there was smoke and fire in the van and he halted the vehicle. Scared children immediately jumped out of the van, but three of them suffered burns, while one was injured in the leg. Shivansh Jariwala, Mansi Gandhi and Riya Chevli, all aged 11 years, suffered burns, while Mitu Vora (13) had an injury on his foot. Before the fire brigade could reach the spot, the van was gutted as the blaze spread.  Mission Hospital’s Dr Anil Kumar said the trio suffered 10 per cent burn injuries on their face, hands and legs and their condition is improving. The vehicle neither had any provision for fire safety nor first aid equipment as it was not registered as a school van. Police have registered a case against him. An officer of Umra police station said, “We have started our investigations in the case.”  School administration said it has nothing to do with the incident as the responsibility to ferry students to and fro from school is solely of the parents.  It said the school doesn’t hire vehicles for students.  Chief fire officer Rasik Patel, who reached the spot, said, “The vehicle and schoolbags were completely gutted in the fire. The driver claims he had got the vehicle checked up only a day ago and had got petrol filled up in the CNG-run van. A short-circuit could have caused the fire in the vehicle.”  The incident has exposed the lax working of Surat Regional Transport Office (RTO), who seldom care to check if the school vans are registered or not. In-charge RTO of Surat Parth Joshi said, “The van was not registered to ferry students as a school van. Leaking fuel, which the driver didn’t notice, could have caught fire.”