JAIPUR: Tourism at   (STR) is getting adversely affected as a large number of villagers, protesting against the forest administration, are continuing their dharna (mahapadao) at the main gate and not allowing the tourists to enter the forest.

 On third day of the protest, many tourists who reached   faced huge inconvenience. The situation has worsened as many gypsy owners who ferry the tourists inside the park came in support of the villagers. A total of 69 gypsies and 15 canter owners have shut down their operations.
 
 There is no ray of hope that the protest will be ‘called off’ soon as talks between the villagers and a team led by additional district magistrate (ADM-1) Rakesh Gadwal remained inconclusive on Wednesday. The talks lasted for more than two hours at Sariska guesthouse; however, villagers did not give consent to end the mahapadao.
 
 While talking to TOI, Gadwal said, “We are trying to appease the villagers and negotiations are on. It is difficult to fulfil most of their demands as it is not possible to amend the   rules regarding tiger reserves.”
 
 A senior official at tourism department said, “At present, we have opened entry for tourists at   end. However, the situation could aggravate during weekends. On an average, 100 tourists visit Sariska during week days and more than 250 come for tiger sighting during weekends.”
 
 Hundreds of villagers living on the periphery of STR are protesting against the state government since Monday. These protesters have raised several demands including transfer of chief conservator of forest GS  , who is allegedly harassing the villagers.
 
 Villagers of 60 villages living near STR are participating in the protest. They had submitted a 25-point memorandum of their demands.
 
 The protesters alleged after the death of tiger ST-11 and tigress ST-5 went missing, the forest department is committing atrocities on the villagers. They further demanded to withdraw all criminal cases against them which were registered by the forest department in the recent past. Bhoopat Singh, who is leading the agitation, said, “We would intensify our protest, if our demands are not met. The forest department is torturing villagers and registering false cases against them, as a result the future of many youngsters will be ruined.”
 
 The protesters stressed that state government should give right to panchayats to issue lease deeds of land in villages falling under Sariska where ban is imposed under Forest Rights Act 2006. It was demanded that state government should pay compensation to the villagers, if their crop is damaged by wild animals. Moreover, forest department should prevent wild animals from entering the fields.
 
 As most of the villagers are dependent on cattle for their livelihood, the protesters demanded to allow grazing in Sariska area. They also demanded that forest department should construct a concrete road to connect villages in Sariska and villagers should not be restricted to go to villages and temples, which are situated inside the forest area. “Dausa-Tehla Road which passes through the Sariska forest reserve should also be opened for villagers,” added a protester.
 
 
