DHARAMSHALA: On the third consecutive day of the first ever session of the 13th assembly, motion of thanks to the address of governor turned into a free-for-all in the House.  ,   leaders targeted each other while participating in the debate on Thursday.

 Speaking first on the motion in the House, BJP MLA from   of district Kangra Rakesh Pathania said that he had lost his father due to poor health facilities in state during the Congress regime. He said that during the tenure of last government, announcements were made to open number of medical colleges across the state without considering the strength of staff and no planning was done to execute the orders.
 
 “My father suffered a heart stroke and he was admitted to Dr Rajendera Prasad Medical College where he was put on ventilator with a mask which had six holes. How can patients survive in such conditions?” he asked.
 
 Opening of medical colleges made to shift the medical staff from primary health centers due which people are suffering, he added. Pathania thanked CM for steps taken to restore the liquor trade in state by ordering winding up of the HPBCL (  Beverages Corporation Limited).
 
 “This government has started working from Day 1. There was mishandling of funds in previous regime for which CM has asked a report. I am thankful to him for this” he said.
 
 After him BJP legislature, Col Inder Singh from Mandi district too raised questions over loans taken by previous government which, he said, had created a financial crisis in state.
 
 “BJP in previous stint has taken around 7,000 crore while previous congress government took 18,000 crore. Further, it kept on opening the schools but strength of students went down to 44%. It was no logic to open schools when strength of students was falling considerably,” he added.
 
 CLP leader Mukesh Agnihotri, however, asked the CM to take the route of developmental politics rather than vindictive politics.
 
 “Vidhan Sabha is not a place to settle the score. A new CM should set up a new trend by not entering into vendetta politics,” he said.
 
 He said that the change in Himachal politics can be termed as “political accident.”
 
 “The Congress will try to act as responsible opposition” he added. Further, Agnihotri held BJP accountable for its statement given over financial situation in state.
 
 “Right from Day 1 of this government, hue and cry is being raised over the financial situation of the state. This is not right, as  , the 9th time legislature has also run the government and never made an outcry over funds,” he said.
 
 Making a bailout package an issue, he said that BJP had government in the state as well as the Centre. “The CM should get a bailout package from the Center which could create a history for state,” he said.
 
 
