NEW DELHI: At the recent Congress plenary session,   compared the coming   elections to Chikmagalur Lok Sabha victory of   in 1978, saying the state contest would give a "new direction" to country's politics like it did four decades ago. 

 Not one to temper expectations, Karnataka chief minister   called it a clash between "communalism and secularism" which will be a "stepping stone" for   to prime ministership in 2019.
 
 Stakes in the southern state could not be higher for Congress which has hitched all its hopes of dislodging the Modi government on its performance there. It would be another 'Congress vs BJP' face-off, in which Congress has not succeeded since its decimation in 2014.
 
 Congress believes that a successful defence of its government in Karnataka would build upon the defeat of BJP in bypolls across states, especially in Gorakhpur and Phulpur in UP, to send out a message that the saffron momentum had finally petered out. The flip side is that with the stakes raised, a defeat could be debilitating for Congress and the opposition.
 
  
  
 
 Party leaders say once Narendra Modi is neutralised as the "X factor" in pulling votes, Congress would be strongly positioned to tap anti-incumbency in BJP's multiple-term forts of MP and   which along with Rajasthan, another saffron-ruled state, would go to polls end-year. 
 
 The impact of victory would not just be on the popular mood but also on "allies" which would be nudged to unambiguously join an anti-BJP front. For all the party's optimism, the state contest seems difficult to read. Siddaramaiah, an OBC leader, has drawn his strategy to pull the OBCs while Congress is also banking on a one-way consolidation of minorities. Congress believes there is no single wave-issue against the state government, as was corruption against B S Yeddyurappa's BJP regime, and it would dampen a big turnout among BJP voters.
 
 The decision to push for minority status for Lingayat community, a BJP support-base, is also aimed at denting their consolidation of previous polls. The BJP face in Karnataka- Yeddyurappa- belongs to the resourceful community a section of which has been pushing for being declared a separate religion. The initial campaign by Rahul Gandhi has turned in favourable reports, with Congress thrilled that even coastal region which is vulnerable to polarisation, is returning strong response. The party's war plan is to play "soft Hindutva" and "development" cards in the regions where it would clash with BJP, while hitting hard against JD(S) in the south. The loud campaign to dub JD(S) as the "B team" of RSS is to consolidate anti-BJP voters in favour of Congress. The bottom-line, as Congress planned, was to turn Karnataka into a "Modi vs Siddaramaiah" contest. There, it feels, it has succeeded.
 
 
