AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board ( ) has introduced   for the   during the board exams. The most stringent punishment mandated by the board is for students who receive a   on social media platforms.

 The guidelines for action to be initiated against students, supervisors, and invigilators involved in class 10 and 12 board exams stipulate that if any student is found to have received a leaked board exam paper on WhatsApp or social media platforms like Facebook, the result of not only that subject but all subjects will be cancelled. The student will also be debarred from board exams for the next three years. 
 
 “This is for the first time that the board has spelt out strict penalty for paper leaks. Effectively, the student will lose four years if he or she receives leaked board exam paper,” said A J Shah, the chairman of the GSHSEB. The move comes after English paper of class 10 was leaked, leading to the cancellation of results of around 850 students last year. The board has also specified punishment for students who caught cheating on camera inside exam halls. 
 
 Here, the board has issued guidelines that if the student is found to be asking for help orally or with sign language, he or she will face action which includes the cancellation of the result of the subject. In the case of mass copying, the board has decided that the result of not only the subject concerned but results of all papers will be cancelled. In addition to this, the students will not be allowed to take board exams the next year. A committee will be set up to inquire into the role of supervisors and building conductors who, if found guilty, will also face action. 
 
 The board has also specified that students when caught with chits will face cancellation of the entire result if they have copied from the material. Moreover, they will not be allowed to take the exam the next year. If the student has not copied from the chit, only the result of the subject concerned will be cancelled. 
 
 
