Two years ago, T Sambandam was dependent on his family for most chores and couldn’t take a step without gasping. His doctor diagnosed the 89-year-old with   and suggested surgery. Initially, he and his family were apprehensive — apart from his advanced age, there were complications due to diabetes, hypertension and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. But he went underwent the procedure, and today, at 91, he goes for morning walks, exercises twice a day and is back to his old lifestyle. He also offers consultation for textile companies, his field of expertise.

 Sambandam, and many others like him, showcase state’s advanced   health system, which has demonstrated that nonagenarians aren’t too old for surgery. "That’s the biggest change in the past decade. There is no age limit for surgery now," said interventional cardiologist Dr G Sengottuvelu, who treated Sambandam. "When I first saw Sambandam, cardiac surgeons had declared him unfit for surgery," he said. Four days after surgery, Sambandam told doctors that he would like to vote in the TN assembly election.
 
 In 1950, when Sambandam, a BTech graduate from Anna University, walked into a textile mill in Coimbatore as a trainee, life expectancy in the state was around 35 years. The crude machinery in the mills and polluted environment left him with an incurable respiratory disorder. Now, life expectancy has more than doubled.
 
 Senior citizens account for nearly 15% of the state’s population against a national average of 10%. The increase in population has led to increase in diagnosis of several diseases, says intensivist Dr N Ramakrishnan. "Many patients and their children now insist on aggressive therapy," The advancement in medical technology makes it possible for doctors to push boundaries in   theatres and seniors go under the knife seeking an independent life.
 
 At 93, Gangaram*, a businessman, drives to work. "I had heart surgery two years ago. Last year, I went rafting on the Ganga," he said, showing pictures of himself, wearing new sunglasses, shorts and tees. For nearly 20 years, the businessman, who had a heart condition, was on painkillers. At 85, he told doctors he was willing to take a chance and die on the operating table rather than be imprisoned in his room.
 
 But, there is always the other side of the story. Doctors now confront a dilemma that has plagued them for long. Senior neuropsychiatrist Dr Ennapadam S Krishnamoorthy said that though many patients may express a desire as to when treatment should stop, the statement could be invalidated at a critical moment, with the patient or family overturning the earlier decision. "A patient in the early stages of neurological disease may say he doesn’t want life support in future, but when confronted with a critical condition, his mind or that of the family could change.
 
 Critical care experts say they inform families when they know outcomes of aggressive therapy may not always be successful. "The family is given options that can allow hospitals ‘not to resuscitate’ or ‘not to escalate’. If the family disagrees, we will have to go ahead with the therapy," said senior intensivist Dr N Ramakrishnan. The situation can become tricky when families find treatment unaffordable. "We only tell them to opt for centres that offer affordable or free treatment," he said. 
 
 Part of this dilemma comes from the changing role of both medicine and the doctor. "Medicine today is not just about curing an ailment. It is about giving people a good quality of life," said senior heart transplant surgeon Dr K R Balakrishnan. "My patients chat with me on WhatsApp and I attend their family events," he said. "In a way, advanced technology and complex surgeries have changed doctor-patient relationships."
 
 Sambandam and Dr Senguttuvelu agree while smiling at each other over a cup of piping hot filter coffee. 
 
 
