NEW DELHI: Relations between the elected government and the lieutenant-governor, Anil Baijal, witnessed another flashpoint on Wednesday with the government claiming that the LG had “rejected” its proposal for doorstep delivery of ration and the Delhi cabinet’s decision to suspend operation of the  . This had made Aadhaar mandatory for receiving rations.   said that an “important” proposal had become a casualty of “petty politics.” 

 Taking to Twitter, the CM said: “I had repeatedly requested him to give me an audience before taking a decision but he did not. Feeling really really sad that such important proposals are becoming victims of petty politics.” In another tweet, he said: “POS machines are causing huge problems for the poor people. Poor people will continue to suffer.” 
 
 The LG’s office, however, observed that it was incorrect to say that the proposals have been rejected. “LG has advised that the proposal for home delivery of ration may be referred to the Centre with full details, including all implementation issues, before a final decision is taken,” said a statement. Adding that the decision on POS machines too had not been rejected, the statement said that he had only advised the Delhi government to reconsider the decision because the introduction of e-PoS devices to ensure end-to-end computerization of the targeted public distribution system is a national level reform for plugging leakages and transparency. 
 
 The government, however, stuck to its stand, claiming that the “bureaucracy has fought tooth and nail to prevent” the doorstep delivery of ration. The cabinet on the proposal had some “objections made by some bureaucrats” though these were overruled by the respective ministers before the cabinet approved it. “The LG has chosen not to accept the cabinet decisions on the basis of motivated objections made by some bureaucrats,” alleged sources in the government.
 
 The government also objected to the LG’s advice to refer the proposal to the Centre, claiming that no reference to the Centre was required under the law. It pointed out that it has been continuously receiving complaints of beneficiaries not getting ration due to the existing system, the government said. “The LG’s objections will only increase the hardships of weaker sections,” said the sources. 
 
 The government has been alleging that there is a "nexus between the ration mafia and some vested interests in the bureaucracy" who have always tried to scuttle any systemic reforms in PDS.
 
 In response to the LG’s observation that the proposed system of doorstep delivery will only replace one set of human interventions with another, the government claimed that the “transparent system of doorstep delivery will replace the current opaque system.” Also, responding to Baijal’s observation that ‘Direct Benefit Transfer’ is a better option, the Kejriwal government said that it has already rejected DBT and the considered decision of the elected government was final.
 
 
