BENGALURU : A  ,  , all in the age group of 21-30, have been imprisoned for the first time under the  .

 Police found the trio continuing to engage in   with impunity, undeterred by the several cases lodged against them, and invoked the Act that allows preventive detention. The arrests were made possible by the new definitions added to the Act through an amendment a few years ago. The three were among the 18 people arrested under the Act in the past one year.
 
 Chandan, 21, was arrested last November for damaging 13 cars in the dead of night, with two accomplices. He was described as a “depredator of environment” who, according to one of the new definitions in the Goonda Act, indulges in activities that will “adversely affect maintenance of public order”. Chetan Singh Rathor, DCP (north) said Chandan’s inability to reform and lack of fear of the law had contributed to his arrest. 
 
 A school dropout, Chandan lived alone with his mother in the city. He is serving a three-month term at present, after which he will be up for review. “He was only 18 when he was arrested for the first time in 2015 for breaking the glass enclosure of an ATM. He showed no change. Breaking glasses of cars was the tipping point and we opened a rowdy sheet against him. It was a nightmare for the residents of Mahalakshmi and Nandini Layouts. He also had cases of assault and robbery against him. We finally caught him on camera vandalising the cars in November,” Rathor elaborated.
 
 Notorious chain-snatcher Thabrez Khan was arrested in Jayanagar last year and police were able to detect 29 cases he was involved in. They recovered 1,100 grams of gold from him. DCP (south) Sharanappa said Khan mainly targeted aged women moving around alone as he knew they would be unable to put up a fight or raise an alarm.
 
 “Khan always operated with accomplices, who changed over the years along with his residential address. While he was mainly apprehended for chain-snatching, he also had some cases of kidnapping and murder against him. He got into criminal activities in 2012 and has already been arrested thrice. A rowdy sheet was opened against him when he didn’t make amends,” he said.
 
 Akshay Kumar alias Achu, aged 25, was caught red-handed on CCTV camera trying to outrage the modesty of a woman at a public place. The habitual offender was being tracked for two years before he was arrested.
 
 New categories
 
 Five new categories of criminals were added to the Karnataka Prevention of Dangerous Activities of Bootleggers, Drug-Offenders, Gamblers, Goondas, (Immoral Traffic Offenders, Slum-Grabbers and Video or Audio Pirates) Act, 1985, as the Goonda Act is officially known, through an amendment. The categories are: acid attackers, depredators of the environment, digital offenders, money launderers and sexual predators.
 
 Slum-grabbers were renamed land grabbers in the amendment. When a person is tried under the Goonda Act, it’s not for any one crime, but for their history of criminal activity. A person may be detained for a maximum period of 12 months, and after a review, the detention can be continued.
 
 
 
  
 
