CHANDIGARH: Punjab education department will introduce English as a medium of instruction in 1,953 government schools from the academic session starting from April 1.

 On Tuesday, state education minister   said in view of the changing times,   has identified 1,953 schools where students will be given the option to get instructions in English medium. 
 
 School education secretary   said there would be two sections in each class. The medium of instruction in one section will be English while in the other, it will be Punjabi or Hindi. The officer said the education department has already started in-service training of teachers to impart English medium education.
 
 Elaborating on the initiatives taken by the education department, the officer said the results of classes X and XII standard would be declared within 15 days of the end of examinations. Also, he said, 400 evaluation centres are being established. The re-evaluation system on the pattern of universities is expected from the next academic session and strict action will be taken against teachers doing wrong evaluation, he said. He also assured that books for the next academic session would be printed before the beginning of the session.
 
 According to the education minister, plans are being made to provide internet facility in schools by June. She said free books would be provided to students of all categories from classes I to VIII and till classes IX and X for students belonging to the   and BC category. The education department also has plans to extend this facility to students till class XII by next year.
 
 The education secretary said the department has chosen 780 schools to start vocational education courses like agriculture, automobile, physical education, security and travel tourism. Around 700 more schools would be included later, he said. 
 
 The officer said 1.6 lakh children between 3 and 6 years of age have been admitted into pre-primary classes introduced by the education department. Delivering a presentation before reporters, the officer said the concept of smart class rooms would soon be launched in government primary schools, for which NABARD would provide assistance of Rs 60 crore. Under the concept, each primary school would be provided with 10 tabs and a projector.
 
 
