MYSURU: The state leadership of the   and JD(S) may have united to form the government in Karnataka for a larger cause, but the rivalries continue to simmer at the constituency level. Against the backdrop of the bonhomie displayed by some of the senior leaders of the Congress and JD(S), the video of a former Congress MLA directing his supporters to ‘beat’ JD(S) workers like mad dogs if they create trouble has struck an ironically discordant note.

 The video, which shows former   K Venkatesh, who lost the seat to K   of JD(S) in this election, asking his followers to attack JD(S) workers, has gone viral on social media.   made the remarks at an event convened by the taluk Congress on Saturday at the Mahalakshmi Hall to introspect on the defeat in the polls.
 
 Venkatesh’s statements follow in the wake of JD(S) workers celebrating Mahadev’s victory by bursting crackers in front of Congress worker and hotelier Kumar’s house, and his hotel. The situation subsequently escalated with Kumar sparring with some of the JD(S) workers. He later filed a police complaint against four JD(S) workers including Kerala Suresh and Kumar, besides seeking protection citing a threat to his life. Referring to the incident, Venkatesh advised Congress workers against indulging in violence if JD(S) activists created trouble. However, he added that, if the JD(S) workers remained aggressive, they ought to be ‘beaten’.
 
 “Beat them the way villagers beat mad dogs. You will have our support,” Venkatesh said.
 
 On the other hand, Venkatesh also called on Congress workers to closely monitor the JD(S) activities in the constituency. “People have voted for him (Mahadev) for various reasons, and that is a closed chapter. But, we have to monitor them (JD(S)) and protest if they are found to be engaged in something wrong. It is only then that we can keep them under control in the region. We will appreciate when they do good work, but we will not tolerate it when they are wrong,” he said.
 
 Venkatesh, who is considered to be close to former chief minister  , exhorted party workers to constitute committees at the town and taluk levels involving leaders from various communities and hold regular meetings to strengthen the party.
 
 “The government if not only of the JD(S), but is also that of the Congress. So, we have to be active and work unitedly, if we are to prevent them from overpowering us. We have to prepare ourselves for the upcoming elections,” the former MLA said.
 
 
