CHENNAI: The politics over the   seems to be heading for a finish with the Centre submitting the draft plan to the   on the contours of the river water management mechanism. What should be more heartening for   is that except for the nomenclature of the proposed body, the mechanism is in line with the award of the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal in 2007.

 
 It may still be a disappointment for many in Tamil Nadu who all along believed that the tribunal had ordered formation of a Cauvery Management Board that would take over the “physical management” of all eight Cauvery reservoirs – four in  , three in Tamil Nadu and one in Kerala. The tribunal never recommended that and the Centre has not envisaged such a mechanism either in the draft plan.
 
 Union water resources secretary   told TOI that the draft plan is in compliance with the tribunal order. It comprises an authority and a regulation committee to assist the authority. He said the proposed mechanism would take care of storage, apportionment, regulation and control of the Cauvery waters. Supervision of operation of reservoirs and regulation of water release would be done with the assistance of the regulation committee. The assets would, however, be vested with the states concerned and not with the authority. “None of the states including Tamil Nadu, at any point in time, had wanted the assets, dams and reservoirs to be taken over by the authority or the board,” said Singh.
 
 Quoting the tribunal, he said, “On behalf of the state of Tamil Nadu, it was urged that the tribunal should constitute an authority having the power to ‘monitor’ on a day-to-day basis, the different reservoirs in the states of Kerala, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu and to give appropriate directions in respect of the implementation of the decision of the tribunal so far as the shares of the different riparian states are concerned.”
 
 “Tamil Nadu only prayed for monitoring of reservoirs. The issue of taking over assets never came up,” said Singh. Except for changes like qualification and experience of the members of the authority and committee, the Union government has stuck to the recommendations of the tribunal.
 
 As per the draft plan, if the authority finds that any state does not cooperate in implementing the order, it can seek the help of the Centre, whose decision in the matter will be final and binding. So, what if a state does not comply with it? Another legal battle may be imminent. “With the authority being a technical body, the quantum will be determined then and there. That is the biggest advantage. But if they don’t obey the Centre’s order, the only avenue is the court again,” said a TN government official. The dispute in the past was due to lack of data on water availability and states refusing to accept each other’s claims. The proposed mechanism would plug that loophole.
 
 Law minister C Ve Shanmugam said it was a victory for Tamil Nadu, and nomenclature of the scheme would not be an issue. “The Centre’s support was lacking and our government relied on the court and got the draft scheme,” the minister told TOI.
 
