HYDERABAD: Despite these institutes scoring a higher pass percentage than the state average in the recently-released intermediate results, nine lectures and two principals from the Telangana Minorities Residential Educational Institutions Society ( ) have been suspended over 'poor' performance. While three of the nine are regular staff, three are on contract. The remaining five are outsourced employees. 

 
 According to the order, the regular staff will be suspended for a stipulated time and put under observation, while the contract of the rest of the employees will be terminated with immediate effect. 
 
 "I have been working in this college for more than 20 years. Suddenly, they have handed me a suspension letter saying that my performance is not up to the mark. How can teachers be made solely responsible for students' mistake? Some of the candidates who have failed in the exam are irregular students. We even collected their hall tickets a day before the exam. How can you expect 100% pass percentage when we have such students?" asked a suspended Chemistry lecturer of TMRS Junior College, Barkas.
 
 Another suspended lecturer said, "It's not that we have zero per cent results. About 70-75% of students cleared the exam. We had asked the principals to not allow students with less attendance to sit for the exam as it would affect the overall pass percentage, but they did not pay any heed to our request. Now, the society is punishing us for a mistake that's not ours." 
 
 Interestingly, while the overall pass percentage of intermediate students in Telangana stood at 67.06%, students from the TMREIS had 74 pass percentage. Apart from lecturers, the Society has even suspended some teachers at the school-level, though they are yet to be served the official suspension letters.
 
 B  , secretary, TMREIS, said, "It is true we have taken action against teachers for their poor performance. When a student scores single digit marks, it shows that the teacher has failed. Some schools and colleges were able to achieve only 57% pass percentage and this is not acceptable when we are spending about 1 lakh on a student." He said action has been initiated against institutions that haven't got at least an 80 pass percentage. He also said teachers who have been transferred from education department to Society recently, do not display zeal. He said harsh decisions are needed to improve the system. 
 
 
