JAIPUR: The refurbished 4-kilometre walking track at   is turning a nightmare for walkers. Over 100 of them in black tees on Sunday staged a symbolic protest highlighting the danger of the rough, flat and hard track to walkers. Located in the heart of the city, the   attracts over 30,000 visitors every day which swells to 50,000 on weekends. Every day joggers sustain injuries due to poorly designed track, said protesters. TOI reported the poor condition of central park on April 23 in a story titled ‘Central Park’s track deteriorates due to lack of official supervision.’ 

 A resident of Jaipur, Suraj Dewan has been jogging in the park from the past 30 years. He said, “Technically, joggers’ track is made up of material which remains soft even in the dry season. On the contrary, material used here is sand mixed with concrete which becomes hard in summers and turns marshy in monsoon,” said Dewan.
 
 The walkers have been running this campaign from the past few days. They started with the signature campaign to highlight the issue last week. “Some stretches are very dangerous as they are uneven, tilting on one side and have depressions at several places. It is not only hampering the speed of joggers but it exerts great pressure on knees if you walk for over 30 minutes every day. This has been brought to the notice to   but there has been no reaction till date," said Dr Sudeep  , who comes for a walk on every Sunday.
 
 Considering that maintenance of Central Park is not in the priority list of JDA, the joggers also submitted a detailed list of solutions to the JDA. GR  , who is working at  , demanded that a technical committee comprising government officials and professional runners should be given the charge of designing state’s biggest walking track. “The right composition of material for the track, keeping in the mind the climatic conditions and number of people using it every day should be fixed. Our study says that sand from Banas River along with middle sized crusher dust is most apt for this jogging track. The Banas River sand is very soft and mid-sized crusher dust retains moisture for long. The combination will keep track soft even during the harsh weather,” said Sharma.
 
 Other suggestions include — creating drainage at either side of the track for exit of rainy water before monsoon. They (protesters) also urged that possibility of expanding track has to be explored as 80% of the visitors use track more than any other part of the park. 
 
 
