BATHINDA: In the death of Lahore-based rights activist and feminist Asma  , India and Pakistan have lost a figure that fearlessly advocated peace between the two countries, according to people on either side of the border.

 Jahangir died of a cardiac arrest in Lahore on Sunday. In the 66 years she lived, Jahangir, say people who knew her, took on the mightiest politicians and the most polarising figures of Islamist extremism in Pakistan. She made a niche in the fields of justice, having served as the president of Pakistan’s Supreme Court Bar Association.
 
 A peace activist based in Pakistan Punjab’s   city, Shafiq Butt, said Jahangir led the women’s action forum when Pakistan was under the martial law imposed by General Zia ul Haq. “She was a leading figure in the movement for restoration of democracy and never shied away from taking on fundamentalists and regimes,” said Butt.
 
 Butt said he met “Asma ji” when she was visiting Sahiwal to meet an undertrial. “I spent a lot of time with her, and I still remember her charming personality and determination to fight all ills afflicting society,” he added.
 
 A senior lawyer at Punjab and Haryana high court,  , said peace-lovers had lost a voice on the other side of the border which fought for reconciliation between the two countries. “I knew her for nearly a decade and saw in her a fearless lawyer who never hesitated in taking on the mightiest,” said Khaira.
 
 India-Pakistan peace group   E Dosti India convener Devika Mittal, in a post on micro-blogging website Twitter, wrote: “While I never met her, it fills me with great sorrow to hear about her demise. I have also heard of her greatness and she was face of courage in Pakistan. We, the activists of peace, wanting peace between India-Pakistan are together in grief (Sic).”
 
 Aaghaz e Dosti released peace calendars in India and Pakistan in January.
 
 In her last days, Butt said, Jahangir was working for   (landless tenants of military forums in Punjab).
 
 Social activist  , too, termed her demise as a big loss to the human rights movement in Pakistan. “Asma never hesitated in taking up cases of people harassed by the military. She never charged a single penny from anyone. I spoke to her last evening for a case no lawyer was ready to fight. We are stunned to hear about her demise,”   said.
 
 
