KOLKATA: Saisab Dolui, 19, wanted to shoot a YouTube video where he would play a teenager driven to commit suicide due to depression. His friend, Sunil Tanti, would then have counselled him out of it. They were shooting the final scene on Monday on the railway tracks between Belgharia and Dum Dum when they were run over.

 Debjit Choudhari, a CA final-year student, remembered another video he saw in 2017. “I came across a YouTube video in which a Kolkata boy shot himself running over yellow taxis in a traffic jam. It was illegal and risky. Yet he did it to be different,” he said. Choudhuri himself has 40,000 subscribers and nearly three million views for the magic videos he uploaded in YouTube. “There is never a formula for what will make the video go viral. People in their desperation tend to take avoidable risks. My experience has been different. People didn’t become YouTube sensations overnight. They toiled hard for it. It is like any other medium,” he explained.
 
  
 
 The desperation to upload a video which may go viral isn’t without reason. A   in Tollygunge was stumped when his 12-yearold son tried to explain why YouTubing would be his aim in life. “My son told me if he got 10,000 subscribers for his You-Tube channel, for every 1,000 views thereafter he would earn $0.8. He then reeled off names of three persons who reportedly earn lakhs by uploading videos. For me, this was completely new,” he recounted. “Fortunately, we were able to steer the dinner table discussion to more mundane topics. But this, or the lack of our knowledge about it, still scares me,” he added.
 
 Shreya Hunday, a postgraduate student who has been YouTubing since 2014, talked about the unpredictability of the medium. “I have seen some videos going viral, but better edited videos on the same topic sometimes get only a few views. It is a very uncertain medium,”she said.
 
 Apoorv Anand quit his job to pursue filmmaking. “YouTube has opened a creative side to my life. I want to make my own films.” However, his parents don’t understand his motivation. But Anand maintained that he didn’t perform risky stunts just to  
 
 
