BENGALURU: Koramangala police have launched a massive hunt for the three unidentified gunman, who opened fire on a maize businessman in his office in Raheja Arcade in Koramangala on Saturday afternoon. Kanhaiyalal, 54, survived the murder attempt, but suffered scalp injuries and is recuperating at a private hospital. Since doctors have advised Kanhaiyalal complete rest, police are waiting to record his statement.

 
 A senior police officer revealed a team has been dispatched to Hasanpur, near Samastipur in  , to question Rajendra Agarwal, a middleman, who is suspected to be involved in the attack. Chirag, the maize magnate’s son, had told police that they suspect Rajendra’s involvement since they had been getting threats from the Bihar-based operator.
 
 The threats were a result of a business proposal gone awry. Rajendra had allegedly insisted Kanhaiyalal procure maize from him and also pay a hefty commission. The   allegedly threatened Kanhaiyalal after the later refused to accede to his demands. Rajendra is suspected to have given a contract to the assailants to kill Kanhaiyalal.
 
 Police said they have obtained vital clues about the assailants from CCTV footage and are tracking them down. “We are on the right track to pin down the assailants who are on the run," another senior police officer said.
 
 “Three special teams are probing the case and so far, no arrests have been made in the case,” Seemanth Kumar Singh, additional commissioner of police (East) said. Singh said the assailants are suspected to have used small firearms and police are waiting for the FSL report to ascertain the nature of weapons used in the case.
 
 Guards mistook assailants for delivery boys
 
 Sleuths wondering how three men wearing full-face helmets could open fire on a man in his office on the second floor of a busy business complex and get away without being hindered were flabbergasted with the security guards’ reply.
 
 “We noticed three men walking out calmly and then run towards bikes they had parked on the road,” the police quoted one of the guards as saying. “We thought they were delivery or courier boys who were rushing out to prevent traffic police from towing their bikes.”
 
 The guards told police that they realised something serious had happened only when Chirag rushed out to find a vehicle to take his injured father to the hospital.
 
 Courier and delivery boys parking their bikes in no-parking zones and entering offices in the complex is a common scene in Koramangala, a police source admitted. Police say the boys dash out after finishing their jobs to prevent their bikes from being towed away by traffic police.
 
 The security guards on duty the day Kanhaiyalal was shot at had also failed to note the registration number of the assailants’ getaway bikes.
 
 
