More than 3 lakh devotees camping at   for several days witnessed the   on Saturday. While a few were lucky to watch the once-intwelve-year spectacle from the  , on which the gigantic statue of Lord Bahubali stands, others watched the grand event by climbing the Chandragiri Hill. Thousands sat with families and friends on the rocks, watching the event from a distance.

 
 The district administration and the Jain mutt allowed devotees to have a darshan at the Vindhyagiri Hill from 6.30pm to 9.30pm, after the chief minister’s programme ended and the astadravya puja and maha mangalarathi were performed for Lord Bahubali. The devotees began to stand in serpentine queues from 4pm.
  
  
 
 
 Sagar, a technology professional from Bengaluru, who had come to Shravanabelagola to witness the mega event, said he watched the Mahamastakabishekha from the Chandragiri Hill. “But I will climb Vindhyagiri to have darshan of Lord Bahubali. I have come with two friends and we are delighted to see lakhs of devotees attending the holy event,” he said.
 
 While most who had come from distant places stood in queue for the darshan, some decided to return the next day, when they hoped the crowd would be smaller. KSRTC buses are bringing devotees and dropping them back free of charge. The bus authorities had to use mikes to help passengers find their vehicles.
 
 The SDJMIMC Trust, which organizes the event, said on Saturday, moksha kalyan and 108 kalashas were held at Vindhyagiri. Later, panchamruta abhishekha – bathing of the idol with five liquids, including milk and honey – was performed. From February 18 to 25, abhishekha with 1,008 kalashas and panchamruta abhishekha will be conducted. On February 26, there will be a valedictory programme, marking the end of the mega event.
 
 During these seven days, there will be 1,008 kalashabhishekas from 8am to 11am, panchamrutha abhisheka from 11am to 1pm, astadravya puja and maha mangalarathi from 1pm to 1.30pm, and there will be darshan for public at the Vindhyagiri Hill from 2pm to 9.30pm.
 
 
 
 
 Prime Minister   will arrive at Shravanabelagola on Monday. He will arrive at Chavundaraya Sabha Mantapa at   and launch the work to build the Bahubali General Hospital and the newly constructed steps at Vindhyagiri Hill.
 
