CHANDIGARH: Within nine months of launching a campaign,  , to improve education system and learning level of students from Classes I to VIII, three blocks in the state comprising around 350 government schools have been declared ‘saksham’ (capable) for achieving grade-level competency.

 The declaration has been made after the students were assessed on various scales by an independent agency, Grey Matters. The blocks that have been declared ‘saksham’ includes Mahendergarh, Matanhail in Jhajjar and   in Bhiwani districts. The students were judged for their competency in mathematics and Hindi and around 81%-97% students of these blocks achieved grade level competency. A total of 22 blocks in 13 districts of the state were assessed in the first two rounds. The first round of assessment was done in December 2017 while the second took place in February 2018. As per the criteria, a block with more than 80% students at grade level is declared as a ‘saksham’ block.
 
 As per the methodology, 1,000 schools were selected across 22 blocks in two rounds through stratified sampling technique. Only Classes III, V and VII were assessed in the two subjects. A total of 36,000 students were assessed and the question papers were as per the NCERT’s National Achievement Survey (NAS) format. The tests had multiple choice to be completed in 60 minutes.
 
 Giving details of the programme, state education minister   said that the aim of such a test was to enhance the learning level of students of government schools and to ensure that they had the knowledge of the subjects as per their age group. “The programme is meant to retain students in state-run schools. We have better infrastructure and highly educated teachers. In recent past, many parents in villages have started shifting their wards to government schools. Six other blocks, including Beri, Ateli, Jhajjar, Narnaul, Tauri and Saha are close to get the ‘saksham’ status and we have set our target of declaring all schools ‘saksham’ by the end of March 2019,” Sharma added.
 
 Sources said that the state government had roped in ADCs and other senior officers at lower level for close monitoring of students for the examination. Over a hundred social media groups were made to update the progress of the programme through local level education officers. Additional principal secretary to CM   said that the it was also ensured that the books reached students well in time and strict monitoring was done to curb cheating in schools during the assessment.
 
 In 22 districts of  , there are 119 blocks with around 15 lakh students from Classes I to VIII, who would be covered under the programme.
 
 
