BENGALURU: While not many Indian meals are complete without a pickle, manufacturers both in the state and other parts of the country are grappling with the   fallout. To articulate the problems faced by the industry, the   has taken the initiative to start an all-India association, bringing makers from across the country under one umbrella. 

  The first conference of the   held on February 11 saw the participation of 80 manufacturers from Karnataka, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Telangana and Goa. 
 
  "Under GST, pickles have been clubbed with other fruit and vegetable-processed items like jams and attract 12% tax. Pickle is consumed mostly by the common man and shouldn't be taxed at such a high rate. Under GST, papad is not being taxed at all, while spices and masalas attract 5% tax," said 75-year-old M N Ramachandra Shetty, founder of the   State Pickle Manufacturers Association. 
 
  Of the 125-plus registered pickle manufacturers in the state, 70 are members of the state association founded in 2003-04. The latter hopes to carve out a separate identity for pickle under the tax system. 
 
  Shetty, who has been in the business since 1982 when his father founded MN Pickles in  , is the founder-director of the associations. 
 
  "In 2003-04, I along with a few other people founded the Karnataka State Pickle Manufacturers Association to build unity among manufacturers in the state. At the time, there was a lot of unhealthy competition between the producers and many pickle industries were closing down. During the pre-VAT era, the tax on pickles was as high as 16% and through the association we managed to get it reduced first to 4% and later 0%," said Shetty. 
 
  The association was successful in convincing the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board to bring the   under the 'green' category from the 'orange' one, thereby reducing the compliance burden on the sector. 
 
  "Since GST was implemented, pickle sales have dropp ed. Pickles are perishable items and start to spoil within 8-10 months. The mango season will be here soon and we should ideally have sold all our stock before buying fresh fruits. If we do not buy fresh fruits this season, we won't be able to produce pickle for the next one year. GST on pickles must be brought down to zero, and if this isn't possible, or at least slashed to 5%," said Abhijit Kulkarni, secretary of the state and all-India associations . 
 
 
