MADURAI: The Madurai district administration on Friday removed a portion of the controversial wall built around   temple, located on poramboke land in   village near Periyar. Arunthathiyar community members of the village had been demanding the removal of the wall, alleging that it was an 'untouchability wall' constructed by Paraiyar community to prevent them from accessing the public space. 

 Tension prevailed in the village on Friday morning when the revenue officials landed there to remove a portion of the six-foot-wide wall constructed in 2013. A large number of police personnel led by an additional deputy superintendent of police were deployed. Police arrested 115 people who tried to stall the proceedings. Some of them doused themselves with kerosene and threatened to commit suicide. Revenue officials led by Usilampatti revenue divisional officer M Suganya removed the portion.
 
 The dispute over the wall has been creating tension between the two sub-sections of dalits. There have been protests for and against the demolition from both the sections in the last few months. Although the Madurai bench of the Madras high court had in August 2017 issued orders to the district administration to bring down the wall in four months, this was not done.
 
 By January-end this year, around 200 people of 70 Arunthathiyar community families abandoned the village and shifted to   temple hillock putting forth the demand. Although they had been staying on the hill from January 29, the protest gained traction after one of the protesters,  , died after suffering chest pain on March 30. The family members did not receive the body which was kept in the mortuary of   after postmortem. 
 
 At a meeting convened by the district administration in connection with the removal of the portion of the wall on Thursday, district collector   maintained that it was not an untouchability wall. However, the portion of it would be removed to provide way for the Arunthathiyar community people to access the anganwadi to be constructed inside the temple premises. The protesting villagers finally received the body of Palanimurugan and the final rites were conducted. 
 
 
