MUMBAI: “Everyone has a different strategy to handle trolls, but criticism should not be taken negatively. There can be some genuine feedback and you should use it for your betterment,” advised  , while addressing over 900 students at the   on February 28. 

 The event, organized by Times NIE in association with   at   in Matunga, provided a platform to hone the skills of   who competed to be Times NIE Star Correspondents. The event featured the students’ first press conference wherein they posed questions to the panellists—Kulkarni, conservation architect Abha Narain Lambah, psychiatrist Dr Anjali Chhabria, developmental paediatrician Dr Samir Dalwai, and developmental paediatrician Dr Leena Deshpande. Young change-makers were also put to test by emcee Dyu D’ Cunha who conducted a quiz and an essay on the topic, ‘I for India. I for Innovation’. Sixty qualifiers will be interviewed by an editorial team of The Times of India and 35 student journalists will be shortlisted for the upcoming academic year.
 
 The event also witnessed an enriching session for over 300 parents and teachers at the Matunga Central Basement Hall. Dr Dalwai and Dr Deshpande enlightened parents on ‘Recipe for Rich Parenting’ and ‘Primary Aim: Keep Secondary Cool-How to Enhance School Performance’ and shed light on the challenges faced by children, brain functions, concentration issues and stress among others. 
 
 Abir Chakraborty, director, sales and marketing, Nutrigold, said: “We thank Times NIE for providing such a platform for understanding right parenting techniques from experts. Given the gap between identification and interventions, we attempt to surmount it with our unique formulations.”
 
 Highlighting the stigma attached to mental health, Dr Chhabria said, “ The mind is also an organ like any other in the body and if you are dealing with any kind of negative emotion, you must walk up to the counsellor without worrying about what others will say about you.”
 
 Advising students to follow their passion, Lambah said, “Hard work and excellence do not have substitutes and whatever you do, be the best in that field.”
 
 Top ten Times NIE Star Correspondents of the previous academic year were felicitated at the event. D’Cunha said, “Events like these nurture young minds. Students...are encouraged to do something for the nation as they listen to great people who have made a mark in the society.” 
 
 
