BENGALURU: Ask Yathaarth M, 12, to sing the national   of any country and chances are, he can do it. 

 Having mastered 215 anthems in three-and-a-half years, the Class 6 student has now set his sights on becoming a Guinness World Record holder. 
 
 “I first started learning them in June 2014, when my music teacher taught me the anthems of four countries, including Japan and Sri Lanka. While I really enjoyed learning them, I also liked finding out new things about the countries they originated from,” he said. Of the 215 anthems, a majority are of UN-recognised nations while the rest are of autonomous regions like Hong Kong (China) and overseas territories such as French Guyana (France).
 
 Yathaarth can also play 40 of the anthems on keyboard. He said when he first embarked on this mission, it would take him over a week to learn a new anthem, then a few days, and now a few minutes.
 
 “Apart from the Indian anthem, I like the South African, Japanese and Sri Lankan ones the most. While the Argentinian anthem is the longest, the Estonian is the hardest to learn owing to pronunciation,” he said, adding that he practises the anthems regularly.
 
 In September 2017, he entered the   for being able to sing the maximum number of national anthems; then, he knew over 112 anthems, 80 of which were in languages other than English. In the same month, he sung the Israeli national anthem for Dana Kursh, consulate general of Israel in Bengaluru, leaving her emotional.
 
 “Currently, the   is held by an 11-year-old Canadian girl, who sung the anthems of 76 nations on their soil in one year. We are thinking of achieving the same feat in 101 countries, including India. However, we will need sponsors for this,” said Yathaarth’s mother, Shilpa Spoorthy. She is hopeful of getting her son associated with the United Nations as well.
 
 About his future plans, Yathaarth said he’d like to be an anthemologist, a job most people would have never heard of. “I want to study different anthems and understand them more, as well as draft new ones,” he said. Yathaarth has even invented a country he calls ‘Prop’ or the People’s Republic of Petersburg, and has already composed a national anthem for its fictitious population.
 
 
