AHMEDABAD: A team of the Indian Institute of Technology, Gandhinagar, (IIT-Gn) has achieved a scientific triumph by creating the world’s first nanosheets made of boron. The IIT-Gn researchers say that the nanosheets — only three atoms thick — are among the thinnest materials crafted by humankind. 

  
  
 To understand the scale in everyday context, the nanosheets are one lakh times thinner than a strand of human hair or a paper sheet. But the size belies the sturdiness of the nanosheets, which show promise to become central to the development of the next-generation mobile and laptop batteries, green energy, and lighter but hardier armours for the Indian armed forces.
 
 “The nanomaterial we have synthesized has never existed before. This is an exciting development which opens further avenues for the use of boron,” said  , assistant professor of chemical engineering. Jasuja and his team of doctoral students — Gunda Harini, Saroj Kumar Das, and   — published their findings in ChemPhysChem journal.
 
 Jasuja said the invention was the result of serendipity. The team stumbled upon it while working on a project to develop a recipe for synthesizing nano-material from boron. The research on nanosheets has been centered on graphene, which represents the first such ultrathin nanomaterial obtained from graphite. The discovery won the   scientists a Nobel Prize in Physics in 2010. 
 
 “We were working on a project to make a graphene cousin constituted from boron by using magnesium diboride or MgB2, a chemical commonly used in labs,” Jasuja said. “We observed that MgB2 dissolved in water just like sugar. But dissolved sugar never reunites to form crystals again. However, when this solution was left undisturbed for 36 hours, the dissolved species surprisingly started to come together again.”
 
 More importantly, the recrystallisation did not happen in the conventional three-dimensional way, but in the form of extremely thin sheets. “The boron atoms in these nanosheets arranged symmetrically in the form of a honeycomb which makes these nanosheets similar to graphene, a honeycomb of carbon atoms which is the world’s thinnest material measuring only one atom thick,” Jasuja said. 
 
 Jasuja said that the team will now investigate the properties of boron nanosheets vis-à-vis graphene nanonsheets and work on projects to harness the material’s utility for society.
 
 
