JAISALMER:   being run over by trains is continuing unabated in Jaisalmer as the authorities concerned seem to be least bothered to check these accidents.

 Five   vultures were run over by a train in Lathi Dholia area in Jaisalmer district on Wednesday. This is the fourth such incident in the last 35 days. So far 47 vultures have died.
 
 According to sources, in all these incidents, carelessness of gangman has come to light as he has not removed dead animal from the tracks. The forest department is concerned over the repeated incidents, but except for writing letters to administration and serving notice to railways, it can’t do anything more. Before this incident, the forest department was taking advice from the experts for legal action against the railway.
 
 Wildlife lover and union woman and child development minister   had also expressed her concern over the continuous incidents and called forest department officers two weeks ago to take strict steps, but still the story is as it was.
 
 Wildlife lover from Dholia area Radhey Shyam Pemani said that he got information that vultures have been mowed down again by train and he reached the spot and found five vultures dead and earlier too such incidents have taken place fourth at the same place. He had also received call from Menaka Gandhi two weeks ago and expressed her concern.
 
 DFO Khyati Mathur confirming this incident said that between railway pillar no. 215 and 217 five vultures were mowed by the train and entire area is being searched and there could be possibility of finding more bodies of vultures.
 
 She said, all four incidents took place at the same places where on November 28, December 5 and December 14, vultures were mowed by the train. Today also dead animal was found near the track.
 
 She said, forest department has requested earlier railway stations at Chandan, Lathi and   by writing letters to immediately remove the dead animals near the railway tracks in the letter earlier and it has been asked to direct gangman to remove dead animal from the tracks and throw them far away otherwise the department will be forced to take legal action, but still now no action has been taken and mowing of vultures from train in continuous.
 
 She said that we are going to organize an important meeting on January 5 with the railway in which railway and forest department senior officers will take part. In the meeting all the points of this will be discussed.
 
 She said there are some post vacant in   circle and the area is very big and because of this timely information and reccay is not getting possible. We have informed higher authorities for this also.
 
 It is to be mentioned that on Nov 30 - 15 vultures and on Dec 7 - 21 vultures and on 14 dec 6 vultures and today 5 vultures have died.
 
 
