NEW DELHI: PM   laid out the fundamentals of India’s role in the Indo-Pacific, saying on Friday that his government stood for a free, open and inclusive region with   at its centre.

 
 Delivering the keynote speech at the  , the prestigious inter-governmental security forum,   called for a common rules-based order which, he said, must believe in sovereignty and territorial integrity, as well as equality of all nations, irrespective of size and strength. 
 
 While Modi didn’t sound confrontational, he sent out subtle messages to Beijing as he said that these rules and norms should be based on the consent of all, not on the power of the few. Modi sought closer ties with China, saying stable relations between the two countries were an important factor in global peace and progress. However, he also warned that while India understood the benefits of connectivity, it was also important to build bridges of trust, and not just infrastructure, in pursuing such initiatives.
 
 And for that, he said, these initiatives must be based on respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity, consultation, good governance, transparency, viability and sustainability. “They must empower nations, not place them under impossible debt burden. They must promote trade, not strategic competition. On these principles, we are prepared to work with everyone,” said Modi. 
 
 Despite pressure from Beijing, India is yet to show any interest in joining China’s flagship One Belt, One Road (OBOR) connectivity project. “No other relationship of India has as many layers as our relations with China... and, we have displayed maturity and wisdom in managing issues and ensuring a peaceful border,” said Modi. The PM said the world will have a better future when India and China work together in trust and confidence, sensitive to each other’s interests.
 
 At a time when several Asean nations are feeling insecure over Chinese muscle-flexing in South China Sea, Modi said when nations make international commitments, they must uphold them. 
 
 
 Addressing the international audience, the PM also spoke out strongly against protectionism. “What we seek is a level playing field for all. India stands for an open and stable international trade regime,” Modi said.
 
 
