GHAZIABAD/NOIDA: As many as 177   ferrying children to and from schools in   and Noida have been found to lack safety features laid down by the Supreme Court.

 The violation came to the fore during inspections carried out by the transport department on Sunday on the orders of the UP chief minister. Officials said only 712 of the 1,400-odd   plying across Ghaziabad district had come for the inspection on the Kamla Nehru Nagar grounds, of which 125 were found to have flouted the guidelines. 
 
 In the drive in Noida,52 buses were found lacking the safety features. Over 300 buses had reported for the inspection in Noida. Another drive is likely to be conducted on April 22 for school buses in  .
 
 Sources said many of the buses were found with jammed emergency doors, missing footrests, lack of boards mentioning “on school duty” on the rear of the vehicles and even fire-fighting equipment. The buses were examined on the basis of 11 points laid down by the transport department in accordance with the Supreme Court’s guidelines.
 
 During the five-hour drive that started at 9am, a team of officials also checked the antecedents of the bus drivers to ensure they were not involved in any criminal activity in the past.
 
 Transport officials said the schools whose buses were found to be plying without the mandatory features had been advised to ensure they were installed at the earliest.
 
 “The schools that had sent the buses without proper safety guidelines have been directed to rectify the shortcomings and get the vehicles approved by the transport department. Notices have been issued to each school. The remaining 700 school buses that skipped the inspection on Sunday have been asked to come on April 15,” Ghaziabad regional transport officer   said.
 
 Officials said that following the chief minister’s orders, UP transport minister   had on April 3 directed the department to check vehicles ferrying school children.
 
 Schools across the district had been sent emails directing them to send vehicles ferrying their students for the inspection. The 700-odd buses skipping the test suggested many of the schools had not followed the directive.
 
 Assistant RTO (enforcement) Himesh Tiwari told TOI that Sunday’s drive was meant only for buses owned by schools. Educational institutions across the district also source their vehicles from private transporters.
 
 “We had not included buses or vans being operated by private contractors. Many of the buses were also found to lack fire-fighting equipment while some air-conditioned vehicles did not have safety grills,” he said.
 
 
