PUNE: A   here has set aside a magistrate’s order of July 25, 2017, that issued process in a criminal complaint against Goel Ganga Developers India Private Limited and its three directors for “defying” an interim order issued by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on December 23, 2015.

 Through the interim order, the NGT had restrained the   firm from carrying out any further construction at an integrated housing project at Vadgaon Budruk. The NGT later passed a final order in the matter on September 27, 2016. 
 
 Almost two months after the final order, Tanaji  , the applicant before the NGT, moved the sessions court for criminal prosecution of the firm, its directors and three civic officials alleging that construction was carried out in defiance of the interim order. The question before the sessions court was, what is the effect of the interim order after the final order is passed.
 
  
 Senior lawyer SK Jain, representing the realty firm, argued that the effect of the interim order and an undertaking given by the   on August 2, 2016, had evaporated in view of the final order and that the interim order had merged with the final order. 
 
 In a ruling on January 22, principal district and sessions judge SM Modak not only set aside the magistrate’s impugned order but also dismissed the criminal complaint holding that the complainant could not satisfy the court about non-compliance of interim order. “He (the complainant) has succeeded partially before the tribunal by getting compensation but, he could not get any favourable finding on the point of sentencing applicant nos 2 to 4 (Goel Ganga directors) to civil prison,” the court ruled. 
 
 Judge Modak held that criminal law can be set in motion during the period intervening an interim and final order. “But, once the final order is passed, the observation needs to be considered. Certainly, doctrine of merger is applicable. Learned magistrate in his order has not referred about the final order,” the judge observed.
 
 “The learned magistrate has not conducted the inquiry properly which is contemplated at the state of issue of process. No doubt, he has observed about violation of direction but, he fails to take note of material date of December 23, 2015. He has nowhere observed about carrying out of construction after December 23, 2015. So also he has not taken cognisance of final order. He has not referred it,” the court said. 
 
 Referring to the photographs produced as evidence, the court observed that it was material to see when the construction recorded in the photographs was carried out — whether before or after December 23, 2015. “None of the side have pointed out to me the categorical finding that construction was carried out after December 23, 2015,” the judge said. 
 
 When contacted, Gambhire told TOI, “We will move an appeal in the Bombay high court as we are not satisfied with the district court’s ruling.”
 
 
