PANAJI: As Goa prepares for the advent of summer and the weather has begun to heat up, the reservoirs of the five major dams in the state are in a good position, with all filled upto 80% of their capacity, according to data shared by the   resources department (WRD).

 Water in Goa’s biggest reservoir, Anjunem, is at the level of 89.05m, barely short of its full capacity, 93.20m. The Anjunem irrigation project is in Sattari taluka, relying on a tributary of the   under the Mhadei basin.
 
 Goa’s reservoirs reach their peak around September, towards the end of the monsoon. They are at their lowest levels from May-end till June, just before the arrival of the monsoon in Goa. Around this time, the water resources department closely monitors the release of raw water from the reservoirs to maintain it within heathly limits.
 
 Currently, Goa’s second largest reservoir at Amthane is 48.18m full, against its capacity of 50.25m. The Amthane dam, located in Bardez, supplies water for irrigation as well as raw water supply to the Assonora water treatment plant.
 
 At Selaulim in   taluka, the water has dipped to 39.57m, one meter short of its full capacity. Selaulim caters to the drinking water needs of towns and cities like Margao, Vasco, Quepem, and Sanguem, as well as the   hinterland. 
 
 The water levels at Selaulim and Anjunem can be viewed on the WRD website on real-time basis through the use of sensors at the dam. 
 
 In Panchwadi, Ponda, the reservoir is currently filled to 25.28m, which is nearly its full capacity. This tank supplies water to nearby villages.
 
 In Chapoli, as against the reservoir capacity of 38.75m, the reservoir is currently filled to the level of 36.46m. This reservoir makes supply of potable water possible to residents of Canacona.
 
 The WRD revaluates the reservoir situation in May, when summer is at its peak. If need arises, WRD has other water sources to draw on. The state currently consumes around 582MLD (million litres per day) and it is projected that the demand could reach 593 MLD by 2025.
 
 
