LUDHIANA: People of Ludhiana are outraged by the callous attitude of the  . Even a month-and-a-half after the elections, they did not care to remove banners and posters defacing the city. The residents kept complaining, but no action was taken against officials, though putting up banners and posters on roads and trees is illegal as per orders passed by the Supreme Court in 2015.

 Frustrated residents say it is ironical that these people work for the betterment of the city, but they themselves are not making any efforts to keep the city clean. “I sometimes laugh at the irony that we vote for an official so that he can do something for the betterment of the city and make the city a beautiful place to live in, when these officials themselves have been defacing the city since campaigning for the municipal elections started. The entire city is covered with posters of these people, along with a political symbol of their party,” said Harsh Chauhan (21), a Model Town resident.
 
 Harsh’s father said: “The municipal corporation is putting up banners to keep the city clean and green, when they themselves are creating a mess. They pasted posters on our private properties during the campaigning, and now, even after such a long time, these posters haven’t been removed. No action is taken against officials. That’s how our government works.”
 
 Some people say if common people are punished for such offence, stringent action should also be taken against these officials. “Why are challans imposed on us? Why are we the ones who stand in long queues just to get anything done? If we common people are punished for even minor offences, why can’t any action be taken against the ones spoiling the beauty of our city? According to me, heavy fines should be imposed on all the politicians whose banners and posters are still put up in the city, and the   should also make sure these officials themselves get their posters removed,” said Baljit Singh (58), a resident of Shastri Nagar.
 
 Speaking to TOI, MC commissioner Jaskiran Singh said: “We are not imposing any challans on violators, but we have given them two days time to remove all the banners and posters, and some actually removed them. We have already been able to remove 80% of the banners and posters. The remaining will be removed in another day.”
 
 
