KOLKATA: There was something amiss in the Majumdar household, the neighbours were informed thrice by various sources in last three years. But they thought it would be ‘inappropriate’ to intervene in matters involving the ‘highly educated’ and maintained a distance. But the curiosity never left them for all this time. When cops knocked on the door of 25 SN   on Thursday morning, hundreds of neighbours descended on the narrow lane to get a peek into the ‘mystery’ house.

 As a police team picked up   for questioning, the 200-strong crowd waited impatiently outside the house, looking for an oppurtunity to click a photo and even a selfie, if possible. Just when Subhabrata’s father Gopal Chandra Majumdar was being interrogated inside his residence, people were busy drawing parallel between the macabre incident and the   case.
 
 Tapan Shaw, for example, had just clicked a selfie with his niece with the giant freezer on the background. He posted it on a WhatsApp group with the status ‘Here it is. Here’s where he cut up his mother’. It got shared so fast that the demand to bring out the body was raised in no time.
 
 The 5ft alley leading to the main door of the Majumdar house got chock-a-block, each one with their mobile phone in hand. Just outside, cars got stranded on James Long Sarani. By 9.55am, as cops were preparing to shift Bina Majumdar’s remains for autopsy, the crowd was restless. “Do not keep us waiting. Bring out the body,” was the common refrain. Around 10.05am, as cops jostled for space to bring out the body, clicks on smartphones refused to cease. “This is our para’s claim to fame,” quipped a youth.
 
 A few metres away, retired teacher  , one of Majumdars’ immediate neighbour, looked apologetic. She was among the select few who chose to stay indoors, trying to find an explanation behind the shocking turn of events.
 
 “I was always in touch with Gopal-babu. We had our doubts but it was his jovial nature that stopped us from enquiring too much. His age, too, was a concern. We should have mustered courage and enquired earlier,” she told TOI. The local tea seller, however, seemed not to mind at all. “My sales have gone up today,” he said.
 
 According to Kolkata-based sociologists, such tragedy tourism is not rare. In Nepal, thousands from all over the world visited the ruins of buildings that bore signs of the devastating April 25, 2015, earthquake even as hundreds remained homeless. Closer home, many recalled similar sights at Robinson Street a few years ago. “We hope we learn from this incident to care about each other,” said Satish Shaw, summing up the day’s events.
 
