PATNA: Lalu Prasad’s family observed   at Patna in a low- key affair even as the RJD chief is in jail at Ranchi.

 The gates of Lalu’s   remained open for the visitors as Lalu's sons  ,   and wife Rabri Devi welcomed people, who came to extend  .
 
 While the number of RJD workers who came to wish Lalu’s family was comparatively less, Rabri also seemed low due to her husband’s absence.
 
 “The absence of Lalu Ji is being felt by our family as well as people across the state. People are not happy without Lalu Ji. People are eagerly waiting for him to come out of jail,” Rabri told reporters.
 
 On being asked about Lalu’s sentence to be announced by the special CBI Court in the   under   on Wednesday, Rabri said: “We have full faith on the court and we will respect whatever order it gives.”
 
 Lalu’s younger son and leader of opposition in   Tejashwi said they will knock the doors of higher judiciary, if need be. “We are waiting for the CBI court to pronounce the sentence for Lalu Ji and we have the right to go for appeal in high court as well as Supreme Court…People of Bihar are agitated because they feel betrayed as the one whom they voted in jail and those who were not voted are running the government. We did not surrender before extreme communal forces and that is the reason we are being targeted. But we would continue fight them even at the cost of such small sacrifices,” Tejashwi said.
 
 Lalu too extended New Year wishes through his Twitter account, which is being handled by his associates. “New Year greetings to all. The dream of global brotherhood may realise this year. Poverty, helplessness and joblessness may eradicate. Social justice and communal harmony may establish. I wish for prosperity of you all in the New Year with these wishes,” Lalu’s tweet read.
 
 Sources claimed that RJD leaders including Ejya Yadav, Girinath Singh and Sanjay Yadav met Lalu at BIrsa Munda Central Jail at Hotwar, Ranchi.
 
 Meanwhile, the RJD is also gearing up for a meeting of senior party functionaries at Patna on January 6. “Deliberations would be held on the strategies to be adopted by the party in the near future. Not Only Lalu Ji but people of the entire state have been betrayed,” Rabri said. The meeting likely to be held at Lalu’s residence is expected to be participated by MLAs, MPs, x- MLAs, X-MPs, presidents of different units of the party and other senior functionaries. 
 
