Jaipur: Rajasthan which claimed to be an upcoming education hub has failed to meet the basics. Its 21 state varsities out of 24 do not have National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) till March 30. The absence of NAAC grading makes them ineligible to apply for grants and aid from funding agencies like UGC, RUSA, DOT, AICTE and foreign projects.

 Three varsities that have accreditation are Rajasthan University (A++), Mohan Lal Sukhadia University (A++), Udaipur and Kota University (B++), while other prominent ones like MDS Ajmer, Jai Narain Vyas University, Jodhpur and Maharaj Gangasingh University in Bikaner do not have NAAC ratings. The loss of not having NAAC grading is in crores. The major funding agencies like UGC and Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan grant funds under several heads to institutes which have NAAC grading.
 
 “The higher education department has been repeatedly asking all varsities, colleges and institutes to apply for grading in order to receive grants. Most of the universities which have not applied have carried out their self-grading and are getting poor scores. It is a poor show that two-thirds of state varsities have not applied for the grading,” said a higher education official.
 
 The situation in MDS University is such that its exclusive departments like Remote Sensing and Population Studies which is its only kind in the state is being run by a single faculty. Similar situation is faced in Jai Narain Vyas University, Jodhpur with severe faculty shortage. Most of the universities fear that they will be exposed if the NAAC team carries out the inspection. 
 
 Other universities which came up in the last one decade will take years to be eligible to apply for the grading. The situation of government colleges is slightly better than the universities. Of the 209 colleges, seven colleges have A++ grade while 54 have B++. “These colleges are receiving grants under different heads and funding agencies,” said a government officer. None of the polytechnic colleges have applied for grading.
 
 
