Coimbatore: Markets regulator Sebi has initiated the process of refunding money to the depositors of PACL more than three years after asking the company to pay back its investors. In the biggest ever crackdown on large-scale illicit money pooling scheme, Sebi had asked PACL to refund Rs 49,100 crore to investors in August 2014. The regulator also ordered the immediate closure of unauthorised collective investment schemes (CIS) run by the company. Sebi’s quick calculation showed that the total number of customers of PACL came to around 5.85 crore, which includes customers who are said to have been allotted land and who are yet to be allotted the land, making it the largest CIS in the country. The amount involved is also the biggest ever in a CIS case found to be unauthorised by Sebi. In contrast, Sahara had raised about Rs 25,000 crore through optionally fully convertible debentures, which was also ruled as illegal. More than 65 lakh investors were involved in the Sahara case. Sebi had initiated recovery proceedings against PACL and its promoters/directors in December 2015 for their failure to refund Rs 49,100 crore to investors, along with further interest and all costs, charges and expenses incurred. The markets regulator constituted a committee under the chairmanship of Justice R M Lodha, the former Chief Justice of India, for disposing of the land purchased by PACL so that the sale proceeds can be paid to investors, who invested their funds in the company following directions from the Supreme Court in February 2016.  “The committee in furtherance of its mandate has decided to initiate the process of refund to the investors of PACL with the monies so far realised by it. At the first instance, the committee has decided to receive claims from such investors whose total outstanding amount (Principal) with PACL is up to Rs 2,500,” Sebi said. “It is clarified that refund may not necessarily be Rs 2,500 per claimant investor and would be effected on a pro-rata basis after considering the number of claims received as well as the funds available with the committee,” the regulator stated. Investors whose total outstanding amount (Principal) with PACL is up to Rs 2,500 have been advised to send the following details (see graphic) by way of an SMS at 562632 or by uploading the same on the website http://sebicommitteepaclrefund.com/. The last date for receipt of applications for refund is February 28, 2018.