Most   parents across NCR say that they cannot even think of keeping their pets without the AC in this heat. While we brace for the heat beforehand, pets get more prone to heat strokes in this weather because of their fur. Talking about the steps they take to keep their pets cool in the summer, dog parents say, “Everything, right from their food and diet to their grooming, is changed in this weather.” There are various ways to make your furry friend enjoy the   – timed walks, and visits to pet-friendly resorts and  . These Gurgaon dog parents show us how. 

 
  
  QUITE THE SPOILT BRAT! Mrinal, a Gurgaon resident, carries an umbrella when he takes his dog for a walk 
 
 
 
 Pet parents tell us that they have often noticed that dog walkers take the pets out without considering the temperature outside. “In this weather, pets should be taken out for walks either early in the morning or late in the evening. If you think that the weather is not comfortable for you to walk, then how do you think your pet will be able to walk in that same temperature? Plus, it is advisable to make them walk in an area which is shaded,” says Parvin Kora who lives in sector 57.
 Rashmi Handa, a resident of  , Gurgaon, adds, “The number of walks for my pet usually decreases in this weather because of the heat.” Mrinal Dey, a resident of Sector 27, Gurgaon, agrees, “During this time, when the temperature is at its peak, my pet goes for her walks either early in the morning or late in the evening.”
 
  
  Rashmi Handa makes sure to give her dog Sunny a bath every two weeks
 
 
 
 Since physical activities are restricted to early mornings and late evenings, the pets stay in air conditioned rooms in the house. “Our pet is thoroughly spoilt and he stays in an AC room all the time in this weather,” says Rashmi. Parvin adds, “When our pet comes home after the walk, we make sure that the AC or the cooler is on. We maintain a thanda environment at home for the pet. We have also placed water containers at various places in our home.”
 
  
  Parvin Kora sprays water on his pet dog Caesar to keep him cool
 
 
 
 Pet parents say that they’ve noticed their pets’ appetite decreases during summers. “Dogs do not like to eat during daytime in summers, they usually eat during late evenings or early mornings. So, my advice to people is that they should not worry if their pet is skipping meals. I give buttermilk or curd to keep my pet hydrated. That is something that others can also do,” says Vizal Atheya, a resident of sector 43, Golf Course Road.
 Vandana Arora, who lives in Sector 28, Gurgaon, says, “Our pet also likes to play with ice cubes. It is something that keeps him cool in this weather. He loves to eat watermelon, and therefore we let him eat it in small portions.”
 Instead of packaged dog food, pet parents prefer to cook food for their pets. “We prefer to give him home-cooked food along with lassi. We do not give him packaged food because of the heat,” says Mrinal
 
  
  Grooming of the pets also involves drying them properly with a hair dryer
 
 
 
 There are some pet parents who do take their pets to pet pools in this weather. “As summer approaches, we take our pet out more for swimming. We usually take her to the pool twice in a week or every alternate week. In winter, we give her baths after three weeks, but in summer, we try to bathe her once in two weeks,” says Mrinal.
 Parvin adds, “You can always take your pet for a swim to a nearby swimming pool. But I have seen that a lot of pet parents just leave their pets inside the pool. You can buy pool floats for them, but if it is the first time that they are going for a swim, it is better the pet parent accompanies them. Don’t just push them into the pool.”
 
  
  
 
 
 While many think cutting their pet’s hair short would help them  , pet parents advise not to remove the fur completely. “Grooming is another important thing to take care of in this season of ticks. It involves not only giving them a bath in 15 days but also drying them properly with a hair dryer. We do not take our pet to grooming parlours because the equipment they use may not be sanitised. We also take a lot of road trips to hill stations in this season and take him along with us to the places that are pet friendly,” elaborates Rashmi Handa.
 Vizal, adds, “Do not cut their hair too short. Hair works as an insulator for the skin. If you shave it off, you actually expose your dog’s skin to more heat.”
 
  
  
 
