CHENNAI: Chief minister   on Wednesday will not have a one-on-one meeting with Prime Minister   to discuss constitution of the  . Instead, he will attend a brainstorming session convened by Modi with chief ministers to discuss the 150th birth anniversary celebrations of Mahatma Gandhi at  .

 
 
  
 
 Palaniswami, however, is scheduled to meet senior advocates at Tamil Nadu House on Wednesday, a day before the Cauvery hearing is taken up by the Supreme Court. “That is the only scheduled programme other than PM meet in New Delhi,” said a source. The advocates meeting is to ensure that they put up a good defence to establish the state’s rights and the constitution of the Cauvery Management Board, said the source.
 
 Counsel for the Centre had, on Friday, sought two more weeks for submission of the scheme. “We hear that the Centre may also submit its draft scheme in a sealed cover before the court on Thursday and request that it be opened after the Karnataka election,” said a senior official.
 
 The state camp is apprehensive about the composition of the mechanism, which may not be on the lines of the Tribunal’s order of Cauvery Management Board, given the BJP’s stake in poll-bound Karnataka.
 
 In the last hearing, the Centre sought to know if it could modify the composition of the board, and make it a mix of administrative and technical members and not purely a technical body as recommended by the tribunal.
 
 The state government had filed a contempt plea against the Centre for not complying with the six-week deadline set by the Supreme Court to draft a scheme by March 30. Stating that it did not want the dispute prolonged further, the SC directed the Centre to keep ready the draft scheme on or before May 3. Meanwhile, state government officials denied speculations about a one-on-one meeting between Modi and Palaniswami. “The government has not sought an appointment with Modi during the upcoming CMs’ session, nor has the the PM given one,” an official said. Palaniswami had lamented last week that PM had not given an appointment yet for an all-party delegation on the Cauvery issue.
 
 Union minister Pon Radhakrishnan triggered a controversy by stating that there was no record of request from the chief minister for an appointment with the PM. “It is for the EPS government that claimed to enjoy cordiality with Centre to clarify whether this is correct,” DMK leader Kanimozhi told reporters in Tuticorin.
 
