Bengaluru: Farmer leader K S Puttannaiah, along with Prof M D Nanjundaswamy, had campaigned ceaselessly for the cause of farmers under the banner of Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha that brought several governments to its knees in the 1980s and 1990s before age forced him to slow down and join politics. The 68-year-old MLA died on Sunday night while watching a kabaddi event in Mandya. He had been the lone farmers’ voice in the legislative assembly after getting elected in 2013 from Melkote, and his death is a blow to the farmers’ movement. Despite disapproval over his political plunge, Puttannaiah successfully contested for the first time from Pandavapura segment in 1994. He lost three successive polls until he was re-elected in 2013. It’s not always that a legislator catches the attention of the chief minister and the treasury benches when he raises an issue in the assembly or council. But Puttanaiah could do that.  With his trademark green shawl over his shoulder, Puttanaiah was among the few legislators who attended all the sessions. He travelled in a car with a green beacon and no police official questioned him. Farmers and his supporters too started using green beacons. After Nanjundaswamy’s death, Puttanaiah emerged as the farmer’s leader in the Cauvery basin region. Some leaders said he was among the few who excelled in politics with his activism.  Last March, he merged his party with psephologist Yogendra Yadav’s Swaraj India and he was made Swaraj India’s first MLA in Karnataka. Both Houses of the legislature paid rich tributes. “We have lost a vital link in the chain of the farmers’ movement in Karnataka,’’ said agriculture minister Krishna Byregowda  He did not discriminate between farmers of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu when it came to the inter-state dispute over sharing of Cauvery water and actively participated in the Cauvery Family, a group of farmers and academicians from both states to help governments resolve the row, he added. Law minister T B Jayachandra recalled how Puttannaiah used to bring pressure on the government to implement the proposed Mekedatu balancing river project. Some assembly members also recalled how Puttannaiah in chaste Tamil fondly remembered late Tamil Nadu chief minister J Jayalalithaa and described her as “our own daughter’’, as she originally hailed from his constituency Melkote.  Opposition leader Jagadish Shettar and JD(S) leader K H Kona Reddy recalled how the farmer leader would demand the government set up a pay commission for farmers, claiming that farmers too served the country by offering food security. After passing the condolence motion, members observed a minute’s silence as a mark of respect. 