LUDHIANA: A domestic help with his three accomplices robbed of an elderly wife of an industrialist by holding her hostage at   on Monday. Rajesh Kumar, a native of Uttar Pradesh, was hired as a cook by  , owner of a spinning mill, just five days back.

 The   police have booked Rajesh and his three unidentified accomplices under Sections 392 (punishment for robbery) and 34 (Act done by several persons in furtherance of common intension) of the IPC.
 
 On Monday, Rajesh helped three associates enter the house in Atam Nagar when Om Prakash’s wife  , 67, was alone at home. She was in a room on the first floor. Rajesh with one more accused went upstairs, held the elderly woman and snatched her gold earrings and bangles.
 
 Further they asked her to give the locker keys. When she resisted, the accused tied her hands and pushed her on the bed. His two accomplices then gathered other valuables they could find in the house.
 
 ASI Dharminder Singh, investigating officer, Atam Nagar police post, said Om Prakash’s son, daughter-in-law and grandchild also stayed in the house. As the family needed a cook, they had asked someone to find the person. Rajesh was hired just five days back, the cop said.
 
 The ASI said usually the daughter-in-law stayed at home, but on Saturday Om’s son and his family had gone to Jaipur for a function.
 
 Om Prakash left for factory around 11am on Monday with his driver.
 
 Taking advantage of the situation, Rajesh called his three accomplices. The woman went upstairs for dusting when Rajesh helped his associates to gain entry in the house. Rajesh and another accomplices went upstairs, snatched jewelry from woman and tied her hands and mouth with a piece of cloth. Further his two accomplices broke open the locks. One accomplice was standing by the woman and threatening her not to move.
 
 After the miscreants left, the woman managed to come downstairs, got herself untied and raised an alarm.
 
 The official said the son and daughter-in-law of complainant would give details of missing goods, cash and jewelry once they return from Jaipur. 
 
 The ASI also said the family has not got the police verification of domestic help done. House owner Om Prakash told the police that despite asking for Rajesh’s identity proof, he did not providing the same.
 
 The cop said Rajesh seemed to have a criminal history as he planned everything in a short span of time. 
 
 Box: Robbers leave separately
 
 After the robbery, all the accused left the house separately. They were carrying backpacks in which they kept the stolen cash and jewellery. Minutes later, the accused assembled at Atam Nagar park, police said. 
 
 
