NEW DELHI: The income tax (I-T) department on Saturday attached nine bank accounts of  , one of the prime accused in the Rs 11,300 crore PNB swindle. However, several of the accounts had zero balance, giving rise to suspicions that he had already withdrawn the bulk of the deposits fearing attachment.

 
 On Friday, the I-T department had provisionally attached 29 immovable properties of  , the main accused, and those of his wife Ami and various group companies. The department had also attached 105 bank accounts of Nirav and his companies.
 
 Saturday's action is intended to choke all of Choksi's financial sources by attaching his personal bank accounts and those of his companies. The attachment includes three personal accounts of Choksi in Bank of Baroda and IndusInd Bank, three accounts of Gitanjali Gems Ltd, two of   and one of  . Gitanjali Gems Ltd had one account each in Allahabad Bank, IndusInd Bank and Oriental Bank at Mumbai.
 
 Two of these accounts had nil balance, while the third had a debit balance of Rs 2.29 crore. Two of Choksi's own accounts, in IndusInd Bank and Bank of Baroda, had a balance of Rs 7.74 lakh and Rs 34,474, respectively. His third account, in Bank of Baroda, is dormant.
 
 Choksi's Gili India Ltd has two accounts, in Axis Bank and Kotak Mahindra Bank, with a balance of Rs 40 lakh and nil, respectively. Another of his companies, Nakshatra World Ltd, formerly known as   and Fantasy Diamond Cuts Pvt Ltd, had an account in a Mumbai branch of ICICI Bank, with a balance of Rs 33.93 lakh at the time of attachment.
 
 The income tax department has invoked the Black Money (Undisclosed Foreign Income and Assets) Act, besides provisions of the I-T Act, against all the accused and issued them notices.
 
 In addition, the I-T department has already filed a chargesheet against Nirav in an earlier tax evasion case, the hearing for which has been scheduled for February 27. The I-T department is also probing at least 150 shell companies associated with the accused in its ongoing probe in the PNB swindle. The CBI had carried out searches against Choksi and his companies on Friday at 32 locations across the country. A similar search was conducted against Nirav and associates earlier by both the CBI and the ED. 
 
 
