BENGALURU: For several years under its previous CEO  ,   achieved growth rates of 15 per cent-16 per cent even when it had hit $10 billion in revenues, way more than the No. 2 player in the Indian IT industry. Then, in the past couple of years, the company slowed down dramatically as customers looked at newer digital technologies that TCS and others were not fully prepared for.

 Now, Chandrasekaran’s successor, Rajesh Gopinathan, looks to be bringing the company back to its winning ways.
 
 In less than a month, TCS has announced deal wins of nearly $6 billion, including a $690-million contract with Europe’s M&G Prudential that it announced on Tuesday. It’s a stellar feat that has left many in the Indian IT sector in awe of the company’s deep client connects and robust execution engine. 
  
  
 
 
 
 TCS appears to have pulled way ahead of rivals  ,  ,  , and HCL in deal wins. Last week, TCS bagged a $2.5-billion deal from US insurance company   to enhance its digital capabilities, and simplify the service of more than 10 million policies into a single integrated modern platform. In December, it renewed a $2.25-billion contract from television ratings measurement company Nielsen. It also announced a $400-million deal with Marks & Spencer to transform it into a digital-first biz.
 
 In September, TCS subsidiary Diligenta announced a $1-billion contract from Scottish Widows, Lloyds Banking Group’s life and pensions business. With this, the value of the total large deals announced by the company in recent months goes up to nearly $7 billion.
 
 Peter Bendor-Samuel, CEO of outsourcing consulting firm Everest Group, said TCS is taking on the market with new vigour. “Last year, TCS rolled out a comprehensive strategy to address the markets’ move into a digital-first orientation. This involved increased investments in digital, reorganization of its operations to address the new realities of a digital marketplace, and new messaging for its marketing and sales teams,” he said.
 
 Analysts believe TCS’s early pivot into digital has paid off significantly. Hansa Iyengar of London-based   said, “TCS was the trailblazer when it came to splitting out digital revenues (around 30 per cent of total revenues at last count) and this business is growing much faster than other segments.” Internally, Iyengar said, TCS has also changed the way it organizes itself, its go-to-market messaging, and is aiming to become a nimble and adaptable company.
 
 However, Phil Fersht, CEO of IT research firm  , cautions that though the retention of the Nielsen deal would be a relief for Gopinathan, the diminishing future returns from the deal are a sign for things to come for the whole IT/BPM services industry.
 
 “Clients like Nielsen are expecting to have the same services for less money in the future because of promised efficiencies from providers like TCS in the digitization and automation of services, leading to lower numbers of staff to manage the work,” he said. Nielsen has committed to spending $320 million every year, beginning 2017 until 2020, $186 million per year from 2021 until 2024, and $139.5 million in 2025.
 
 Bendor-Samuel says while the big wins show the potential for TCS to become a leader in digital, it will still have to deal with the significant revenue compression digital will drive in its legacy business.
 
 “There is still a long journey in retraining its teams and mastering the new digital business models,” he said.
 
