JAIPUR: Urban Development and Housing ( ) minister   on Thursday constituted a committee to settle the ongoing dispute between   (JDA) and   (JMC) over maintenance of  . 

 The committee will submit its report on February 28. The JDA and JMC have locked horns over the maintenance of major roads in the city as both these agencies are reeling under acute financial shortage.
 
 A senior UDH official said, “The committee will comprise financial directors of both the civic bodies. The committee would submit its recommendation to resolve the issue amicably.” 
 
 Recently, in a letter written to JMC, the (JDA) has refused to maintain 60 feet and above wide roads in JMC’s periphery. Replying to the letter, the JMC commissioner too has expressed helplessness to maintain these major roads due to paucity of funds.
 
 A senior official source at JMC said, “The JMC commissioner wrote a letter to UDH minister and JDA commissioner to re-think over the decision. The commissioner also requested the minister to hold a meeting to resolve this issue amicably. On Thursday, meeting was called to discuss the same issue,”
 
 A senior JDA official informed TOI, in a meeting held on November 2016, which was chaired by the additional chief secretary (ACS), it was decided that JDA would not maintain 80 feet and above wide roads in JMC periphery. Following this, the orders were also issued in January 2018. “As JDA is facing acute financial crisis, it has refused to maintain 42 major roads of the city that are falling under JMC. Besides two roads, majority of these roads are under the defect liability period till 2020. This means, JMC will not have to spend money on maintenance of these roads for two years,” added the source
 
 After new colonies were transferred recently by JDA, the corporation is struggling to maintain the inner roads as additional burden has increased. Recently, JMC had sought Rs 536 crore from the state government for upkeep of residential colonies that were recently transferred for maintenance. However, funds are not provided till date.
 
