JAIPUR: Sandeep Sharma (name changed) is running from pillar to post seeking his class X and XII documents from his engineering college. He left engineering after six months in December 2017 due to his disinterest in the stream. His college has refused to grant him the academic documents until he pays the fees of the next three years.

 “I need my documents to apply for the bachelor’s degree course in Commerce from Alwar in June. I am ready to pay the fees of the second semester but what they are asking is beyond my reach,” said Sharma.
 
 He had written a letter to the   for assistance several times. Similarly, hundreds of students are struggling to get their academic transcripts from engineering colleges. Some require it for changing their stream while others require it while applying for studies abroad.
 
 The harassment is not restricted to students but teachers are also at the receiving end. These colleges retain the academic documents of teachers as soon as they join any institute.
 
 The   ( ) has come to the rescue of these students. The body which governs technical institute has reiterated on Saturday that colleges have no right to withhold the academic transcripts of students. 
 
 AICTE cleared that transcripts are required at the time of enrollment and no college has the right to retain it until students clear the degree. The drop out rate in engineering colleges is very high and students often end getting no refund of the fees.
 
 Puneet Sharma, technical education expert says that as most of the students come from rural areas, they are not aware of their rights. “Cases which have come to light say that colleges negotiate the fees with the students in lieu of their documents. Students who get admission in any better university or abroad ends up paying fees of the all four years in order to get the documents,” said Sharma.
 
 This practice of harassing the students is illegal and is being followed rampantly by the institutes in Rajasthan. The AICTE observation has also forced the   to make stringent rules to stop the harassment. An RTU official confirmed that they are making rules to stop the harassment by these colleges. RP Yadav, former vice chancellor, RTU admits that during his tenure he has received several complaints.
 
