Landing a job as a software developer in the USA and getting married to his childhood sweetheart   was like a fairy tale come true for  . But their love story doesn’t end there, and the couple, who got married in 2015, followed their dream to explore new places and create a storehouse of memories. Ditching the honeymoon packages and tour planners, the Malayali couple, who are settled in   city, situated in the north of New York, set out to travel through their new homeland all by themselves. 

  The ‘Trip Couple’ make the best use of their weekends for this, and later share their travel photos and experiences on their social media page, which slowly gained more followers. The video blogs or vlogs posted with a Malayalam narration are now a hit on social media and the couple continue with their quest to explore more places in the USA.
 
 The 27-year-olds from Angamaly have covered  , Boston, New Jersey, Philadelphia, Napa Valley, San Francisco and more within one and half years. Traveling to new places has taught them life lessons, and also inspired others to do the same, they say. Sanju and Riya get candid about their travel diaries, challenges, dream destinations and more.
 
 
 
 
 
 The couple travel mostly in their own car or use public transportation. “In the initial days we checked out nearby places close to home, with beautiful sceneries and also those suggested by our friends and family,” says Riya.
 But touring in a foreign land needs good planning and research, and a lack of these landed them in trouble during the early days, says Sanjay. “Each trip is a learning experience. Last year we visited San Francisco after researching on it for one-and-a-half months. But our passport and green card which proves our residency were stolen from our car which we parked in a crowded area.”
 Riya remembers how their trip to Pennsylvania last year turned out to be a nightmare. “It was the time when we first started our expeditions. We went for hiking late in the evening. We got lost in the dark forest and were scared to death as the phone network also went off. No one could even hear our cries for help. We ran in some direction for around two hours. I still remember how my legs were shaking when I stepped on a rattle snake in the woods. Finally when we got the phone signals, we reached for emergency. Though it was an adventurous trip it was a lesson for us to do proper homework for the rest of our trips.” 
 
 The beauty of a place is not their only priority now and they do as much research as possible. Riya says, “We hope to cover the whole of the US and later go globetrotting. We set out on our trips on Saturdays and return on Sundays so Sanju’s work and my college classes never get disrupted.”
 
 
 
 
 
 Ask them which is their favourite destination and Riya says, “It is difficult to point out one as all the places we visited are close to our hearts, either for the weather, the happy faces, the beauty of the place and so on. The   hot air balloon festival, the caves, the fall season trips and the castle visit at   were some of the best moments in our one and half years of weekly trips.” 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 The couple started off their vlog with a handycam and later upgraded to high resolution cameras and mikes. The idea is to pass on the exciting experiences of each trip to friends and followers on their social media channel, says Riya. “We make sure to take high quality videos. We make the videos informative as well, covering all aspects like the significance and history of each locality plus the transportation facilities, culture, architecture and cuisine. The mode of transportation is different in each city; in New York it is the New York Subway while in San Francisco it is called BART, Bay Area Rapid Transit.”
 
 Looking back at their journeys Sanju says, “Our first video, posted in August 2016 on our social media page was at the World Trade Centre and the Twin Towers, which received more than 2500 likes. Though it was an amateurish video, the feedback boosted us to go ahead with vlogging.” 
 Ask the travel freaks if New York City or any city in the US is pocket friendly for Malayalis and pat comes the answer. “We are a middle-class family so our journeys are also planned accordingly. We look for economy travel so we ensure that our trips including the one to the beautiful and iconic New York City were budget friendly,” says Sanju. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Though the trip couple’s dream destination is Norway, at present they are packing their bags to turn the famous Malayalam film dialogue, “How many kilometres from Washington DC to Miami Beach?” into a reality. “We are waiting for spring as our next trip is to Washington DC. The city turns beautiful with cherry blossoms during spring. We have also plans to visit Miami Beach after that,” signs off Riya. 
 
 
 Check out some of the photographs taken by the ' ' : 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
