CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday issued notice to the central government and the high court administration on a plea filed by a retired high court judge seeking directions for releasing her  .

 The matter has reached the HC in wake of a petition filed by Justice  , who had served as high court judge from September 2014 to July 2016. She was an officer of Haryana judicial services and was elevated to the high court bench on promotion.
 
 In her plea filed before a division bench comprising Justice A B Chaudhri and Justice Inderjit Singh, Justice Garg submitted that the controversy was about gap in service in her long career, which has been termed as break and became a ground to deny her pensionary benefits for service rendered as the HC judge.
 
 According to her, the central government has refused to count the service rendered by her in the HC for counting the total period for the purpose of determination of her pension. As such, she was being denied her rightful claim to full pensionary benefits as a retired Judge.
 
 Garg was appointed as judicial officer in 1981 before her name was recommended for elevation as an HC judge. She, however, retired on July 31, 2014 because of delay on the clearance of her name as an HC judge by the Centre. Almost two months after her retirement, her name was cleared by the Centre and she assumed the charge as the HC judge on September 25, 2014.
 
 Counsel for the petitioner submitted that after her elevation she worked as the HC judge till July 4, 2016 but till date the pension and some pensionary benefits for that post had not been provided to her. She has only been sanctioned the additional pension for each completed year as a HC judge but not provided pensionary benefits computation that was to be paid for total service rendered by her.
 
 Her counsel argued that the central government was refusing her pensionary benefits on the basis of frivolous ground which neither existed under the relevant Act nor is mentioned in rules.
 
 
