Surat: Senior officials from the headquarters of Airports Authority of India (AAI) in New Delhi and authorities of the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) will be meeting on March 19 here to discuss the height of the buildings that are obstructing the flight path of runway of Surat airport.  Official sources said AAI officials will be arriving on Monday morning and they will meet municipal commissioner M Thennarasan at SMC headquarters. The agenda of the meeting includes discussion on the issue of buildings’ height on Vesu and Magdalla sides and the proposed extension of the runway at Dumas side of the airport.  Sixteen highrise buildings obstruct the landing path at the airport: 15 highrises on runway 22 (Vesu and Athwalines side) and one building on runway 4 at Dumas.  Interestingly, civic authorities claimed that the directorate general of civil aviation (DGCA) had given no objection certificates (NOCs) to realtors many years ago when development of the airport was at nascent stage. The realtors claim that they had constructed the buildings only after DGCA had given its approval. Last year, AAI authorities had written to SMC asking it to take immediate measures to remove obstacles identified in the approach chart in the survey by AAI in March 2017. A list of around 92 obstacles, including trees, electric light poles and buildings penetrating the obstacle limitation surface of runway 4 and runway 22, was provided to it. The letter further stated that no procedure was established by the concerned authority to carry out regular inspection of the areas around the airport. AAI had requested setting up of a team of officers of SMC, Surat Urban Development Authority (SUDA) and revenue department for carrying out regular inspection of the surrounding areas of the airport.  Recently, DGCA approved displacement of 615 metre runway from Vesu side. This means that the aircraft can’t use this patch for landing. This is all due to the obstacles in the flight path in the form of buildings in the funnel area of the runway. However, flights from Dumas side will be able to use full length runway of 2,905 metres. Airport director Dilip Sajnani told TOI, “Senior AAI officers from Delhi will be meeting the civic chief on Monday. There are multi-task issues on which discussions will be held between AAI and civic authorities. Building height issue is one among the many issues.”