CHENNAI: Buoyed by growth in   and retail, Coimbatore’s job market grew faster than the country’s job market in February while Chennai trailed national growth rates, a survey said on Wednesday.

 Coimbatore recorded a 23% year on year (YoY) growth in online   activities according to the Monster Employment Index as against 16% YoY recorded for the country. On the other hand, Chennai continued to lag behind most other cities, recording a 5% growth.
 
 City-wise data shows that Kolkata witnessed the highest growth rate at 45%, followed by Baroda, Ahmedabad, Chandigarh and Kochi. Coimbatore was ranked 6.
 
 The growth in recruitment activity can be attributed to the overall growth in sectors like manufacturing (59%), retail (13%) and home appliances (59%) in the country. Recruitment companies say they have been witnessing steady demand from clients across sectors.
 
 Aditya Narayan Mishra, CEO, Ciel HR Services said, “We are witnessing a movement of traditional, long-standing FMCG and retail companies towards organised retail. These companies are hiring in big numbers.”
 
 Umasanker Kandaswamy, co-founder and chief recruiting officer at Avtar Career Creators, says several large retail outlets and appliance companies have embarked on major structuring plans for their future business and have been investing in talent in Coimbatore.
 
 Coimbatore has traditonally had a strong foothold in manufacturing and engineering with many original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). “There is an upswing in hiring amongst manufacturing companies like those involved in production of valves and pumps. We are also seeing good demand from the renewable energy and construction industry,” said Mishra.
 
 Industry observers opined that the slowdown in the tech sector hiring resulted in several young professionals choosing to stay back in their native Coimbatore. “I have personally witnessed several folks who are returning to Coimbatore despite receiving a pay cut. Migration of folks from Coimbatore to Chennai has dipped because the incremental salary is not substantial anymore. They prefer to stay in their hometown as it offers a better lifestyle. This had led to a steady pipeline of talent in the city,” says Kandaswamy.
 
 All is not lost though. Kandaswamy hopes recruitment will pick up in the next few months in Chennai. “This not the heavy recruitment period. In April, we can expect to see hiring activity shoot up. Banking captives will hire in large numbers. Healthcare and lifesciences is a hot spot and companies doing any work around this space will get into the hiring market,” he said.
 
 
