KOLKATA:   citizen  , arrested for crossing over to India without a valid visa, has claimed that he came from   on the advice of a tout whom he had engaged to see the   Mahal. 

 Communicating in written Bengali, Ho told police he was keen to view the famous mausoleum that he had seen only in photographs. 
 
 “A Bangladeshi tout said he could make it happen and got me to cross over into India,” said Ho, who was arrested by BSF jawans at Bithari, around half kilometre from the Indo-Bangla border at Hakimpur, Swarupnagar, in North 24 Parganas. Ho was produced in court and remanded in jail custody for 14 days.
 
 
  
 Police are trying to ascertain if Taj Mahal was what really led Ho to enter India illegally or whether he had a different motive. With no diplomatic ties with  , cross-checking his antecedents will also prove difficult.
 
 At Basirhat jail, authorities were wondering how they would locate a Korean interpreter when Ho uttered a few Bengali words. “We were so relieved that he could understand Bengali. But the pronunciation is so different that it proved more effective communicating in writing,” a jail officer said.
 
 Ho was in Bangladesh since 2015 and his visa is valid till November. He claimed he was working with a North Korean state-owned mining equipment-making company called NamNam in Bangladesh.
 
 Jail officers said Ho appeared quite relaxed and happily had the food that was served. “Having lived in Bangladesh for two years, he seems used to the local cuisine. He had rice, daal, vegetables and chapati with bare hands like all others,” said an officer.
 
 In the evening, Ho played volleball with other inmates and was by far the best player on the court. “He has an atheletic built and is very agile and powerful. Ho was smashing the ball with great force,” said another officer.
 
 Police said they had not yet found anything suspicious on Ho. Clean shaven and well-groomed, the 30-32-year-old behaved like a perfect gentleman. According to jail department officials, a plan is afoot to transfer him from Basirhat to Dum Dum. 
 
 
