The tussle between co-ed colleges and gender-specific ones has been a never ending one. On one hand, you have people who prefer sending their children (read girls) to a gender specific college for safety reasons and more, there are those who believe that education in a co-ed promotes holistic growth in an individual. City-based teachers and students weigh in the pros and cons of both…
Gender specific colleges makes students more responsible
 While there may be plus and minuses to gender specific colleges, being in an all-girls or all-boys college helps a lot say teachers. “I agree there are both the positives and negatives, but I feel being in an all-girls or an all-boys college makes the students independent on their own terms. Look at the girls in our college. They conduct all the events and fests on their own. Right from the planning, getting sponsors and the execution, they all do it on their own. They become independent without being dependent on the opposite gender. All the girls lead by example,” says  , student welfare officer at  , adding that at an all-girls college like theirs, there is an overall development of the student. 
 Parents often worry about their child’s safety
 Meanwhile,  , professor at Jyoti Nivas College, says that parents often seek admission in an all-girls college due to several reasons, primary being their child’s safety. “If you see this from a parent’s point of view, many of them feel that their daughter is safer in a girl’s college. That security factors kicks in, hence they prefer a gender-specific college,” she says, adding, “I feel you also need to take the comfort level of a student into consideration. Not all of them are comfortable being in a co-ed college or school.”   also says that being in an all-girls or all-boys college allows students to be in the limelight and allows them to have equal opportunities. 
  Lobo, an 18-year-old student, says, “If a person is shy and feels uncomfortable around the opposite gender, and they have parents who wish to have them in a gender specific educational institute, then gender specific schools or colleges is best for them.”
 But gender-based segregation makes no sense to students
 Keshav Khanna, a student of St Joseph’s College, says, “The purpose of education is to broaden your horizons, this includes witnessing experiences different from your own. Gender specific schools nip this in the bud by ensuring that boys interact only with boys and girls interact only with girls. Segregating them based on gender makes no sense.” He goes on to add that when these young children step into the adult world, where interaction with the other gender is mandatory, it leaves them inept in interacting with the other gender. “Casual sexism becomes rampant due to sheer ignorance,” he says. 
  Ashvita says that she too felt uncomfortable for a long time while she interacted with boys outside her friends’ circle. “I studied in an all-girls college and it’s not always a pleasant experience. There’s too much of groupism, insecurity and too much drama. In addition to that, as girls, when we are out in the real world, it takes us time to interact with the opposite gender. I found it very uncomfortable to interact with boys outside my friend circle,” she says. 
 Though gender specific colleges may help students in some way, Anila feels like it’s like two sides of a coin. “There are advantages to a gender-specific school or college, but being in a co-ed allows them to mingle with the opposite gender, which helps them judge them and react in a suitable manner,” she adds. 
 Ashvita, too, feels that co-ed allows an individual to stand up for himself or herself. “It promotes a healthy competition and a lot of the times, allows girls to stand up for themselves. It gives them a voice,” she sums up. 
 
