HYDERABAD: Days after his alleged remarks against Prime Minister   at public meetings in   and Adilabad, TRS president and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao said on Saturday that he did not use any unparliamentary words against the PM. "I had addressed him as Modi garu, and did not use any disrespectful word. I can say this with confidence as I checked the audio recordings of my speeches later," he said. 

 "I have nothing against Narendra Modi and have respect for him. I am his best friend and we shared many issues in earlier meetings. He had praised the various schemes taken up by the government,"   said at a presser.
 
 He said that he had sought the PM's appointment during his recent tour to Delhi but could not get it due to the latter's busy schedule. He demanded that each state should have powers to decide reservations according to the population. "If   has been extending 69% reservations for the past 24 years, why are other states deprived of it?" he asked. However, he said that he had criticised both   and   for the plight of farmers in the country and would stand by his words as there was unrest among the farming community. He added that the BJP leaders were unnecessarily making a hue and cry over his speech at the public meetings. "Is there any rule that we should not criticise the Prime Minister," he said.
 
 KCR also said that the BJP leaders were spreading false information among people that the Centre was giving assistance to the state government. "Whatever the state is getting is its share from the Centre as devolution. We have got Rs 8,362 crore towards state's share. The government sought Rs 24,000 crore from the Centre for Mission Bhagiratha and Mission Kakatiya in the 2018 budget, but the Centre did not give that," KCR said.
 
 There were many promises made in the AP Reorganisation Act 2014, but none of them were fulfilled. He said that TRS MPs would take up the issues in the Lok Sabha.
 
 KCR added that his party had done two surveys in the recent past which revealed that TRS would bag 103 to 106 seats. According to his survey, while Congress would get 10 seats, BJP is not in a position to get even one of the five seats it has now. 
 
 Taking a dig at Telangana Pradesh Congress Party (TPCC) chief Uttam Kumar Reddy, KCR said that taking political sanyas would not help in elections.
 
