New Delhi:   (DFS) is all set to equip itself better by the end of this year to match it s   with most developed countries. Considering the increasing number of   caused due to fire, the department has made a first-of-its-kind plan to buy   to deal with bigger incidents, especially in places where there are chances of walls collapsing.

 Senior fire officials said there are higher chances of the walls of a house or factory collapsing due to excessive heat. This is when the robotic arms will come in handy as they will ensure that the blaze is doused at the earliest.
 
 “Often, when a blaze is huge, firefighters cannot go inside. The delay sometimes causes grievous injuries or loss of life. This can be prevented with the help of robotic arms,” said an official.
 
 DFS director, RC Mishra, said that they will at first procure two robotic arms at Rs 4 crore each. The machine is being used in Germany, Japan and China and will have to be imported from one of these countries.
 
 The robotic arms will also have cameras and sensors to help the operator know the range of water, the amount of force required and volume available in the tank, officials said. They can change shape, be connected to pumps and throw water up to 100m from a height of almost 40m. They can be useful in congested lanes as fire tenders often get late in reaching such spots.
 
 “Narrow and crowded lanes have always been a hindrance for us in reaching the place of a blaze in time. We will also be acquiring drones, which will be put in operation as soon as a fire is reported in narrow lanes,” said another official.
 
 Families of most victims have complained about fire tenders not reaching on time resulting in loss of lives. The robotic arms will give firemen time to reach the spot and make necessary arrangements.
 
 Officials added that crisis situations like the fire in a Bawana factory where 17 workers died inside the premises can be avoided to a large extent with the aid of such machines. In the last one month, hundreds of people have lost their houses in massive slum fires. “We will most likely have these machines by the end of this year,” said an official.
 
 As compared to 2017, more firemen have died while rescuing those caught inside burning houses and factories despite having their firefighting suits on. 
 
 Officials have also requisitioned for better suits to avert such tragedies. The   has a total strength of 1,750 people. Almost 60 more fire tenders will be added taking the fleet to 250.
 
 
