PUNE:   insists that the No. 7 shirt that he wears for Chennai Super Kings has nothing to do with Cristiano Roanldo. But his impact for   is nothing less than CR7’s for Real Madrid.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Just as Cristiano keeps winning games for an otherwise formidable Madrid side, Dhoni does the same for CSK, day in day out. On Monday, the skipper did quite a few things absolutely spot on that helped CSK run away to a 13-run victory against Delhi Daredevils. Risabh Pant (79 off 45 balls) though put up a brave fight showing, that he is probably the man who should take up Dhoni’s India gloves going ahead. But on the day, it was never going to be enough.
 
 
 
 
 
 It all started with Dhoni’s decision to make four changes to the playing XI. He always believes in continuity, but on Saturday against Mumbai Indians he saw that his team could find it difficult on a pitch with some grass on it.
 
 And how well they served the team. While Faf du Plessis, who was drafted in to open the batting with  , did just enough to blunt out a decent-looking pace Delhi pace attack to set things up for a marauding CSK middle-order, rookie pacer Mohammed Asif, making his   debut in place of Shardul Thakur, accounted for the dangerous DD openers Prithvi Shaw and Colin Munro.
 
 Shaw’s dismissal also had a stroke of Dhoni genius in it. The Mumbai lad had just hit two uppished boundaries over bowler Asif ’s head and the skipper immediately removed Shane Watson from slip to bring him into a straight mid-on position just behind the umpire, with Harbhajan Singh staying in the conventional mid-on position. Shaw saw a challenge in it and tried to hit the next one off Asif a little straighter and ended up giving a simple catch to Ravindra Jadeja at mid-off. But Dhoni (51 not out off 22 balls) is not just about his tactical genius, it’s his finishing skills too that still make him possibly the most valuable player of the IPL.
 
 On Monday, after Watson and Du Plessis put up 102 for the first wicket, it was Dhoni’s magical finishing touch that took the game completely away from Delhi. When Dhoni had walked in, CSK were 130-3 but at the other end, he had his in-form ‘opener’ Ambati Rayudu who was shifted to No. 4 on Monday.
 
 The two launched a brutal assault on the Delhi attack in the finishing stages and the likes of Boult just didn’t know where to hide. The Kiwi pacer who was looking impressive till then went for three sixes and once the score soared to 211-4, there was no looking back. Delhi’s only hope could have been a stormy Powerplay, but there too, Dhoni’s tactical changes stifled the visitors. While South African pacer Lungi Ngidi, making his IPL debut, went only for seven off his two overs, Asif got those two wickets which put Delhi completely on the backfoot.
 
 Pant and  , though were not ready to give up but when Pant was threatening to take the fight to CSK, it was Ngidi who removed him to make it a perfect day for his captain.
 
 
