VASCO
  SC are bristling with confidence after their first home win in the   and are confident that they can continue their winning run when they face   at the Tilak Maidan, Vasco, on Monday.
 
  The former two-time champions had a rugged start to the season, suffering five consecutive defeats. The new year, though, brought them good luck as they have now registered two victories in a row. The first was against Gokulam Kerala FC and they followed that up with a convincing 2-0 victory over   Lajong FC, their first win at home.
  
  Osagie Monday gave Churchill Brothers an early lead and Britto PM doubled the advantage in the second session. It was a timely win and coach Alfred Fernandes is now hoping they can add to their points tally.
  
  “Indian Arrows might be low on confidence and we might be high (on confidence) but every time we enter to play a new match, it’s always a new day. Everything starts with 0-0. Every match is a battle for us. My boys are ready for any team now but that doesn’t take away the respect we have for Arrows,” said the coach.
  
  The All India   Federation’s developmental side slumped to a 0-2 defeat to Neroca FC in their last match. The young side played bravely but an own-goal and a defensive error in the dying minutes cost them dearly.
  
  Indian Arrows have shown in the past that they can match their senior counterparts and not surprisingly Alfred remains wary.
  
  “We won’t take them for granted. They are a very good team and lived up to the expectations. Arrows are youthful and will be eager to perform against a champion club like Churchill Bros. We will put our best foot forward,” said Alfred, adding that more training sessions will provide time to his new signings to understand their teammates.
  
  While Jovel Martins is still recuperating from a hamstring injury, Alfred is hopeful Nigerian midfielder Kalu Ogba, who was stretchered out in the first session against Lajong with a muscle strain, will be available for selection. Mechac Koffi will be eyeing his third goal partnering Gambian striker Dawda Ceesay.
  
  Arrows head coach Luis Norton de Matos believes all games are tough for his side which has no foreigners but their approach is always to do give their best. They are seventh in the standings with 10 points from 11 matches.
  
  “Collectively, we are one of the best organised teams of the I-League but experience and individual mistakes has let us down. It is normal for boys of 16 and 17 years old and I’m extremely satisfied with them,” said Matos.
  
  Churchill have the comfort of playing their next three games at home against Neroca (January 30), Minerva Punjab (February 2) and defending champions   FC (February 6). They have two games in hand and are in the ninth position with seven points, same as bottom placed Gokulam. The kick-off is at 8pm.
