BAREILLY: In a first in the country, the Centre has sanctioned 300 posts for appointment of psychologists in community health centres (CHCs) of   to tackle growing cases of mental illness.
 
  People living in the rural areas of the state at present have no access to psychologists as only district hospitals have such a facility besides three government mental hospitals in Bareilly, Agra and Varanasi.
  
  According to   report of 2015-16, families had to spend nearly Rs 1,000-1,500 a month mainly for treatment and travel to access care. The hidden and intangible costs are difficult to monetize and add to this burden, said the report.
  
  Sunil Pandey, senior psychiatrist and nodal officer for state mental health, told TOI, “It is a great achievement for us. A psychologist will be appointed in each of the four CHCs in all the 75 districts of the state. The recruitment process will start in April. Only UP will have this facility because it’s the only state that sent such a proposal which was sanctioned by the Centre under National Mental Health Programme. We will now be able to reach out to patients suffering from mental illnesses at the grassroots level.”
  
  According to officials, a community psychologist appointed for CHC will get a monthly honorarium of Rs 25,000 and he or she should hold a postgraduate degree in clinical psychology or psychology. “Those with a masters degree in plain psychology will be first given training before they join any CHC,” Pandey said.
  
  “Community psychologists at CHCs will help in creating awareness and conducting basic diagnosis of mental disorders, including depression, mania, mood disorder, obsessive compulsive disorder and schizophrenia. They can prescribe treatment for mild depression, anxiety and provide counselling for drug and alcohol abuses, tobacco control and marital discord. Even psychiatrists will visit CHCs and psychologists can also refer patients to district hospitals. We believe that with these measures, help for mental illnesses will be available at the grassroots level,” Pandey said.
  
  Under National Mental Health Programme, UP has set up mental health cells in 45 districts. Each cell has psychiatrists, a clinical psychologist, a social worker and other staff. District mental health cell’s out-patient department (OPD) is functional for three days in a week (Monday, Wednesday and Friday) while the staff visits CHCs on Tuesday and Thursday on a rotational basis. On Saturdays, the staff visits schools to create awareness about mental illness among children.
  
  “The Centre has now sanctioned mental health cells in remaining 30 districts of the state,” said Pandey.
  
  The country’s mental healthcare suffers from an acute shortage of staff.
  
  Minister of state for health and family welfare   had recently informed Lok Sabha that there are only 898 psychologists against 20,250 required in the country and less than 900 psychiatric social workers against the 37,000 needed. Also, as of January 2015, there were 3,827 psychiatrists against the 13,500 required in the country.
  
  According to the 2011 Census, more than 7.22 lakh people across the country were suffering from “mental illness”, while over 15 lakh were “mentally retarted”. With 76,603 people suffering from some sort of mental illness, Uttar Pradesh has the highest number in the country followed by   at 71,515, Kerala at 66,915 and Maharashtra at 58,753.
