CHENNAI: Amidst protests in various parts of the state over drinking water shortage, the state government on Thursday announced schemes worth Rs 531 crore to provide uninterrupted   in  . It has prepared a blueprint, which includes digging of new wells, borewells, augmenting the capacity of pumpsets and implementing some 36,777 identified works across the state, to augment the water supply.

 It was only last week that chief minister   announced Rs 200 crore exclusively for water supply in the local bodies during summer months of May and June. The rural local bodies were allocated Rs 50 crore to take up work that would ensure supply without any hiccups. Municipal administration and water supply minister S P   on Thursday held a high-level review meeting with rural development department and announced that a detailed analysis had been carried out by the rural local bodies, and subsequently plans had been laid out to tackle the situation.
 
 According to officials, the source of funding comes from the local bodies’ own revenue and the grants sanctioned by the state and central governments for the fiscal. “All rural local bodies have been told to prioritise water supply, availing the funds meant for creating basic amenities. The districts were told to prepare an action plan in February itself. The works have already begun,” said a senior rural department official. The districts, where high deficit rainfall was recorded last year such as Madurai, Sivaganga, Pudukottai, Ramanthapuram, Salem and Tirupur, are anticipated to see the worst scenario this summer. Adequate focus is turned on those pockets.
 
 Incidentally, the state government had spent Rs 532 crore for water supply last year, too. The minister said that storage tanks were chlorinated fortnightly and adequate quantum of bleaching powder and chlorine tablets was stocked. “Monitoring units have been set up to take care of the complaints received daily on water supply. Supply in rural areas is also monitored online,” Velumani said. The minister exhorted the officers to create adequate awareness among the masses through pamphlets and media on the judicious use of water. At least 2.17 lakh hand pumps, 1.15 lakh motor pumps and 98,839 overhead tanks are put to use for rural water supply. 
 
 
