KOCHI: In the elections to pastoral council of Syro Malabar Church (Ernakulam-Angamaly archdiocese) held against the backdrop of land scam controversy involving  , the anti-Alencherry faction, won the key posts. 

 P P Jerard and Mini Paul are new secretary and joint secretary, respectively of the council. While Jerard won 90 votes, his opponent   got just seven votes in the elections held on Saturday. Paul defeated Molly Boban by securing 129 votes against 34 votes. Of the total 198 members in the council, 36 were absent. The meeting, convened for the electoral procedures, was presided over by auxiliary bishop Mar Sebastian Adayanthrath and attended by Bishop Jose Puthenveettil while Alencherry abstained from the meeting.
 
 The elections were scheduled in January, but was postponed following the land deal row. 
 
 The elections to the executive committee and six commissions of the Church will be held after Easter. "In the meeting, Fr Paul Thelakkattu briefed about the land row. Fr Benny Maramparabil, head of the committee appointed by the Church to look into the land deals, presented the findings in the panel report. The land deals were carried out violating canon as well as civic laws. The members of the council were given opportunity to clarify doubts in this regard," a person who attended the meeting said, adding that no one defended the cardinal during the meet.
 
 New procurator (finance officer ) Fr  , who replaced Fr Joshy Puthuva, one among the two priests against whom allegations were levelled along with the cardinal, presented a white paper on Church's financial status at the meet.
 
 Meanwhile, mediations are on for reconciliation with pro-Alencherry wing and the opponents in the Church. "Kerala Catholic Bishops Council president Archbishop   and Syro-Malankara Archbishop Baselios Mar Cleemis are learnt to have been involved. But, we are not ready for any talks until the cardinal agrees to the four preconditions laid down by us," said  , leader of Archdiocesean Movement for Transparency.
 
 "First, the cardinal should reveal what went wrong in the deal. He should stay away from public functions until the probe is over. He should find ways for recovering Rs 50 crore which the Church lost due to the irregularities in the deal. There should be urgent measures to fix the tainted relation between the priests and the cardinal," he said.
 
 
