JAIPUR: Four heavily drunk youths vandalized eight cars following a tiff with one of their neighbours in   locality under the limits of   police station on Saturday morning.

 The incident comes eight days after three cars were torched and 12 other vehicles were damaged in   area of the city, raising questions about the night time patrolling in the city. The Sodala police, however, said that incident was a result of some dispute in the neighbourhood.
 
 “We have identified four youths. They are all residents of the same locality. They are alcoholics and some fights with their neighbours. The situation took an ugly turn when they vandalized cars,” said Sodala SHO Sunil Prasad Sharma, adding that the suspects have been identified and would be arrested very soon.
 
 The locals alleged that on Friday night, the suspects in an inebriated condition first broke windshields of a few auto rickshaws before vandalizing other cars which were parked outside the locality.
 
 When the locals resisted, the youths attacked them too. The incident triggered fears in the locality about the safety and patrolling.
 
 The two repeated incident in Jawahar Circle and Sodala, both located at the heart of the city has put the cops under the tough spot. When asked about the effective patrolling during night time, deputy commissioner of police (Jaipur South) Dr. Vikas Pathak said that the incident was a result of a protracted enmity between locals and a few miscreants.
 
 “We have been strengthening our patrolling across the city, but the incident in Sodala was not a case of an attack by unidentified miscreants. A case was promptly filed, and all accused have been identified,” Pathak told TOI.
 
 Another official informed TOI that many of these suspects, including those who were arrested for Jawahar Circle incident, are addicts.
 
 “These kinds of incidents are carried out by youths consuming dangerous substances like the chemicals which are used in repairing tire punctures and petroleum chemicals,” an official said.
 
 
