Widening ofChetak bridge triggered a major traffic snarl towards Gautam Nagar end during peak hours on Thursday. Thousands of commuters were stranded in long and serpentine bumper-to-bumper vehicles for 90 minutes between 11.00 am and 12. 30 pm, giving them a torrid time. Office-goers bore the brunt of work and thousands of them failed to reach their workplace on time.

 Commuters were extremely angry as   had put up blockades on ramps of the bridge without prior intimation, forcing people to turn back and take a longer route, causing inconvenience to score of the office-goers.
 
 According to an engineer working for the company, the traffic on bridge had to be suspended as the civic body had to install girders on both ramps of the bridge with the help of a crane.
 
 Traffic police said, 10,000 vehicles pass over the bridge every hour during peak time. The blockade had a ripple effect with jam at Jyoti crossing and   circle which connects roads from Board Office, MP Nagar Zone I and II, BHEL, Inter State Bus Terminus (ISBT), Gautam Nagar and Ashoka Garden. A couple of ambulances, which were stuck in the jam, were cleared through alternate routes.
 
 Mahesh Ahirwar, an ambulance driver, said, “I have to rush to BHEL ground to attend an emergency call. But I don’t think I will be able to reach there on time. I must shift the caller to another ambulance so that at least he can be given treatment on time.” Office goers were the worst affected. They were forced to take a longer route to reach office. Some preferred to wait till the blockade was lifted. However, after the jam was cleared, it took another 40 minutes for streamlining of the traffic, especially from Jyoti Talkies to Board Office.
 
 A traffic police constable deployed at the spot said, “Public can take alternative route to cross Chetak bridge, which are either via Board office – Veer Savarkar Setu – BSSS college – Chetak Bridge Circle or the Board office – Subhash Nagar crossing – BHEL ground – Chetak bridge circle. All the alternative routes are at least four times longer than the distance from Jyoti Talkies to Chetak Bridge circle.”
 
 Manoj Saxena, a private firm employee, said, “I have to reach work place, but due to this blockade I will get late. If they wanted to block the way, they should have done it in early morning when the flow of traffic is thin.” “My mother-inlaw is admitted to Kasturba hospital and I have to rush there, but I am stuck in the jam,” said Meenal Khanna, a housewife.
 
 Traffic (ASP) Manendra Jain said, “Since the   had to install girders on both sides of Chetak bridge for road widening work, cranes were pressed into work. To ensure the safety of commuters, traffic movement had to be suspended on and under the bridge. Along with traffic movement, railway tracks below the bridge were also blocked for the same time.”
 
  commissioner Priyanka Das said the blockade was put in place by the public works department without any prior information.
 
 When 
  called up PWD chief engineer Akhilesh Upadhyay, his phone was switched off. Repeated attempts to contact him turned futile.
 
 
