VADODARA: Amul Dairy’s managing director (MD) Dr K Rathnam resigned on Saturday citing personal reasons. But in reality, Rathnam’s resignation has come in the backdrop of bitter internal politics that is being played out in dairy’s board since 2015. 

 Both Rathnam and Amul Dairy’s chairman Ramsinh Parmar on Saturday stressed that the resignation was due to personal reasons. 
 
 But internal bickering that ultimately led to Rathnam’s resignation had started in 2015 when for the first time in its history, three BJP backed candidates had got elected to the dairy’s board in which   with nine out of 14 members continues to enjoy majority.
 
 During the 2015 polls, the Congress panel led by Ramsinh, who was serving his sixth term as Congress MLA from Thasra, had won a total of ten seats. 
 
 The new BJP backed directors which included Petlad APMC chairman Tejas Patel, Vipul Patel and Rajesh Pathak started making representations before the BJP-ruled state government against Ramsinh and other board members for alleged violations of co-operative laws and mismanagement. 
 
 The twist in the tale came when Ramsinh, who is serving as dairy’s chairman since 2002, joined the BJP just ahead of the   election last year.
 
 After switching sides, Ramsinh even got elected as chairman of the Gujarat Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation (GCMMF) – the apex marketing body of all the 18 district dairy unions of Gujarat – in January this year. 
 
 But by that time, trouble had started brewing for him from the Congress camp within his board. 
 
 Ramsinh’s deputy and Amul Dairy’s vice-chairman (VC) Rajendrasinh Parmar, the Congress MLA from Borsad, had moved a proposal during a board meeting on November 11 last year seeking a probe into allegations of graft against the MD.
 
 A five member committee which included Rajendrasinh and Tejas Patel among others was also formed to probe the allegations. 
 
 But in February, Rajendrasinh sent out letters to office-bearers of all village level milk societies stating that the committee’s probe was making no headway. 
 
 In the letter through which Rajendrasinh had urged all the ‘mandalis’ to demand that Amul Dairy should convene a special annual general meeting (AGM), he had made allegations of a scam worth Rs 350 crore by the means of bypassing tendering process and alleged illegal recruitments. 
 
 Reacting to this letters, Ramsinh shot off a letter to all the ‘mandalis’ on February 21 refuting all the allegations levelled by his deputy even as other directors like Tejas Patel pressed for their demand for a proper probe. 
 
 After Saturday’s board meeting, Ramsinh while addressing media persons termed all the allegations of corruption as baseless even as Rajendrasinh who was sitting by his side preferred to remain mum. 
 
 While training his guns on Tejas Patel, who has made several representations against him and the MD, Ramsinh without taking the former’s name, threatened to get the board member disqualified. 
 
 “The history of this person who is making such baseless allegations should be probed. This institution is of farmers. He is trying to damage the very foundation of this institution by bad-mouthing Amul before the government and the press,” he said. “Where is the question of damaging Amul’s reputation? A thorough probe will make everything clear. Let it happen,” said Tejas Patel. 
 
 Amul Dairy’s chairman also said that reports that Rathnam had resigned as he was found guilty of fraud, are far from truth and have been perpetuated by rumour mongers.
 
 
