NEW DELHI: The municipal corporations in east and north Delhi have cautioned Delhi government that the sanitation services in areas under the two bodies could be adversely affected because it has not allocated any funds that could be utilised to maintain sanitation services in this year’s state budget. Last year, the state government had allocated Rs 280 crore for EDMC and Rs 473 core for the north corporation under the urban development head, mainly for managing sanitation services and for salaries of sanitation workers.

 
 “In case of non-payment of salaries, the sanitation workers frequently resort to indefinite strikes, and if the non-allocation of funds induces strikes by the workers, sanitation services will be badly affected,” a civic official explained. EDMC commissioner Ranbir Singh recently wrote to the state urban development department, flagging these issues. A copy was sent to the chief secretary. The north corporation also followed a similar course.
 
 Managing sanitation services entails waste collection and transportation costs, plus maintaining a fleet of trucks and tippers. The two civic bodies are strapped for cash and often delay payment of monthly salaries. “The major chunk of funds allocated under urban development sector is meant for sanitation services. The zero allocation this year means we will have to rely on corporation revenues, but the huge imbalance between income and expenditure makes it impossible to   the expense,” rued an EDMC official. The situation in the other corporation is similar.
 
 In his letter, EDMC’s Singh sought Rs 429 crore from the state government, the release of which could avert an impending sanitation crisis. The north body, in its letter, asked for Rs 1,200 crore (transport sector included) and said this was necessary to avoid deterioration in sanitation services due to lack of funds.
 
 In this year’s budget, the AAP government earmarked Rs 6,903 crore for municipal corporations, 9% higher than the revised budget estimates of 2017-18. In the budget, it also created a separate head, ‘Special financial assistance to urban local bodies’, for funds to be given to the urban local bodies and allocated Rs 1,000 crore.
 
 The state government has always maintained it has released more money than is due to the civic bodies, apart from giving loans even Delhi has been denied an enhanced share in central taxes. “Not even a single paisa has been deducted as interest for the loans given to the corporations,” a government spokesperson stated.
 
