In the latest episode of   Aditya wakes up with Zoya's hand in his hand.   goes back to her home in the morning and Yash’s mother gets angry at her. Zoya tries to explain but Yash's mother doesn't listen to her and Mahi comes in to save Zoya. Yash’s mother warns Zoya and her sister   asking them to follow her rules. Noor argues with Yash's mother, but Zoya ask her sister to stay calm and respect elders. Mahi tries to comfort Zoya by telling her that she will try and explain her mother. 

 Zoya explains Noor that Yash's mother has lost her son and she is going through immense pain. Zoya further tells Noor that she has to go and meet   as he tell her the truth about Yash and Pooja's relationship.
 
  comes to the office and gives another event organizing contract to Aditya. But   leaves the office without paying much attention. In another scene, Mahi tries her level best in convincing her mother to behave properly with Zoya as the entire house is in her name. And if Zoya comes to know the truth, she can throw them out of it. Meanwhile, Zoya tells Mahi and her mother-in-law that she is going to meet Ashish. Mahi tells her she will accompany her to meet Ashish. 
  
 In another scene, someone gives Ashish a packet of money and he promises to not say anything to Zoya. Soon, Ashish decides to leave the place and Zoya keeps on calling Ashish, but he disconnects the call. Aditya returns to his house and his father   informs everyone that Aditya will not get any share from the property. 
 
  Aditya receives a wedding card from Harman and is curious to find out what is happening. Zoya reaches Ashish's house and finds that door is locked. Zoya asks the flat owner about Ashish's whereabouts and he says that Ashish paid six months rent in advance and left without informing. Zoya gets worried and Mahi tries to calm her down by saying that Aditya is behind all this. But Zoya denies as she says that Aditya doesn’t know Ashish. 
 
 In another scene, Aditya’s mother decides to give away all the belongings of Pooja and Sakshi tells her that she will donate them to the orphanage. 
  
 Arjun drops Sakshi (Pooja's mother) at the orphanage and a kid comes and asks Aditya about Pooja. The kid tells him that she had promised him that she will meet him on his birthday. Aditya gets emotional and does not say anything. Soon, all the kids join and start calling Pooja a cheater. Aditya gets all the flashbacks memories where Pooja was holding Yash’s hands.
 
