TRICHY: A farmer from   district has been raising more than 500 varieties of rare herbs, medicinal plants and trees for the last 20 years with a view to reviving them. An MCom graduate, he has been channelising his energy towards propagating the benefits of growing these plants and how badly the future generation would need them. 

 A Siva, 36, of   in Sirkali taluk of the district is a progressive farmer of his locality who has been growing rice and vegetables organically. Inspired by Sivansar, brother of Kanchi Maha Periyavar, he started cultivating herbal and medicinal plants 20 years ago on his one-acre land. 
 
 He also grows rare trees like Maha Vilvam, Rudraksham, Sowkanti, Kalkaram, Brahma Kamalam, Sarkarai Vilvam, Raja Vilvam and Panneer flower tree. Besides these, he also has different varieties of Sanjeevini, the plant which sustains age, such as Raja Sanjeevini, Amirtha Sanjeevini, Mrudhanga Sanjeevini and  .
 
 “Cultivation of medicinal plant is gaining ground because of the skyrocketing prices of allopathic medicines which have side effects. Besides, cultivation of medicinal plants is economically viable. I sell rare plants to many siddha doctors who have been visiting my nursery from across   and even Bangalore”, Siva said. He also prescribes particular trees or plants to his customers based on their zodiac sign or star. He has plants and trees for 27 stars, 12 zodiacs and nine Navagrahas. “If people raise trees or plants related to their star or zodiac, they would give out a positive vibration which would benefit their physical as well as mental health, he said. 
 
 Siva says marketing of medicinal plants was very important since, unlike food crop which has universal demand, they were not much sought-after. He rues the fact that people have been showing no interest in raising medicinal plants in their garden. “People should come forward to raise one or two medicinal and herbal plants. Those who have terrace garden can also try. It would help stop these rare species from getting extinct”, he added. 
 
 For instance, he points out that anyone can plant a popular medicinal plant like Aloe Vera for commercial purpose as the profits were quite high. It belonged to Liliaceae family. Normally, the inner area of the leaves are jelly-like with bad odour and bitter taste. But, a rare variety – Red Aloe Vera — had no such bad attributes and was known to cure 60 types of diseases. It was also prescribed for fertility-related issues.
 
 “Like Aloe Vera, each and every plant has its own medicinal value. We should focus on the treasure we already have to avoid spending huge money to get rid of our ailments. The government should also do something to create awareness about these medicinal plants among the general public”, he further said.
 
 
