BHOPAL: In view of the assembly elections scheduled later this year, the Madhya Pradesh   on Monday decided to expedite implementing its public welfare schemes in the next two months before monsoon. A coordination meeting held at chief minister  's official residence on Monday evening also decided to involve ministers, MLAs and organisational heads to fulfill the task in a time bound manner without any differences.

 "To streamline the coordination between MLAs and district heads, BJP plans to implement all its poll promises and reach out to the public with beneficiary schemes and ensure proper implementation and redress grievances through active participation of the government and the party representatives,” said a senior state functionary.
 
 The meeting which lasted for almost two hours also discussed party's plan and preparations in view of national president Amit Shah's visit on May 4. The members also discussed the enthusiasm among Congress campaign, under the leadership of newly appointed state head Kamal Nath and election campaign in-charge Jyotiraditya Scindia.
 
 “Some issues related to complaints against MLAs by the district heads were also discussed in the meeting. Party leaders decided to resolve all the differences in view of the Congress putting up a united face,” sources said.
 
 The chief minister is learnt to have presented a detailed plan for the implementation of dream plan of Prime Minister   and issues emphasised by Amit Shah during his last meeting in Bhopal.
 
 Prominent schemes likely to be highlighted included Gram Swaraj, Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas, Kisan Sammelan, labour conventions, Chalo Panchayat campaign, conventions of SCs-STs and OBC Mahakumbh. It was also discussed that BJP would organise a series of OBC Kumbh in parts of the state.
 
 Earlier, Chouhan welcomed newly appointed state president Rakesh Singh. Rajya Sabha member Prabhat Jha, organisational general secretary Suhas Bhagat, and cabinet ministers were also present among others.
 
 
