Chandigarh: The Haryana State Legal Services Authority (HSLSA) in collaboration with the Haryana education department organised its 8th annual function under the Students’ Legal Literacy Mission on Saturday in Kurukshetra. This mission is conceived to prepare the next generation for the challenges of tomorrow.

 In his keynote address, Justice Ajay Kumar Mittal, executive chairman, HSLSA, said that legal literacy is the basic core of the rule of law and is essential for the survival of constitutional democracy. Lack of legal awareness in the society is responsible for exploitation and unlawful deprivation of basic rights and social benefits. Problems like child labour, human trafficking, child abduction, domestic violence and child marriage are prevalent in the society. To create sensitise people about these problems, HSLSA took this initiative to support the Students Legal Literacy Programme.
 
 Justice Gurmeet Singh Sandhawalia, HC judge and administrative judge, Kurukshetra sessions division acknowledged the efforts of HSLSA to make Students Legal Literacy Mission a success. HSLSA has already opened 6618 students legal literacy clubs in different schools and colleges across the state. In these clubs students are apprised of social legal issues, rights and duties under the law through interactive methods like skits, spot paintings, declamations, poetry recitation, power point presentation and others. Throughout the year, competitions in various categories are also organised by the department of education and the winners are felicitated in this function.
 
 Jyoti Arora, principal secretary, department of higher education and Dheera Khandelwal, additional chief secretary, department of school education congratulated the winners. They also appreciated the work and labour put in by the students and all others who participated in this event.
 
 Puneesh Jindia, member secretary, HSLSA, Shalini Singh Nagpal, district and sessions judge, Kurukshetra along with other judicial officers, administrative officers of Kurukshetra, teachers and children from various schools and colleges of Haryana were also present on the occasion.
 
 
