GREATER NOIDA: Basketball prodigies from 16 countries took to the courts of the   in Greater Noida on Wednesday. The selected 66 campers and a handful of players and experienced coaches are part of the 10th Basketball without Borders (BWB) Asia camp.

 
 The four-day camp for selected cagers from throughout the Asia-Pacific region is a joint initiative of the NBA and World governing body for basketball (FIBA). 
 
 India’s best two prospects - knocking doors on the Worlds best basketball league in the US - Amjyot Singh and Satnam Singh, and seasoned coaches shared their experience with the top high-school age boys and girls on the opening day of the camp. The players and coaches led the campers through a variety of activities on and off the court including movement efficiency, positional skill development, shooting and skills competitions, 5-on-5 games. 
 
 The selected 66 campers took to the court and also had the opportunity to learn and interact with NBA players Corey Brewer of Oklahoma City Thunder, Caris LeVert from Brooklyn Nets, Kelly Olynyk of Miami Heat, Dallas Mavericks’ Dwight Powell, two-time WNBA champion   and former WNBA player   along with Amjyot and Satnam. 
 
 Amjyot Singh, who plays for NBA G League’s Oklahoma City Blue, said “This is a great setup for all the campers here. I am glad that I could share things that I have learnt so far. The level of coaches and players here are very good and the campers should go back as better players and human beings too.”
 
 Satnam, who became the first Indian to be drafted in the NBA also shared his experience with the campers. “This BWB Camp is an opportunity of a lifetime. Life if all about making the most of the opportunities one gets. Like I got an opportunity to be in NBA and made whatever best I could out of it, this camp should serve as a great platform for campers to move up in their basketball careers,” he said. 
 
 Current NBA assistant coaches Bret Brielmaier (Nets), Darvin Ham (Atlanta Hawks),   (Minnesota Timberwolves), and   (Utah Jazz) are serving as BWB Asia coaches. Patrick Hunt, president of the World Association of Basketball Coaches, Australia, is the camp director while Mavericks’ Casey Smith is the athletic trainer.
 
 Happy with the talent, Dwight Powell from Dallas Mavericks said, “It’s amazing to see the talent here. From what I saw in the last few hours here, these guys have much more to not only be the best of youth talent in Asia but be among the best in the world. I am glad to be here and help them in whatever way possible.”
 
 As part of the NBA’s community outreach efforts, a basketball clinic was also conducted for more than 85 youth from the Reliance Foundation Jr NBA program to promote cultural understanding while teaching the importance of a healthy, active lifestyle and the values of the game, including teamwork, respect, determination and community.
 
