GURUGRAM: Power transmission company   ( ) has embarked upon a new plan to add more high-capacity   to Gurgaon city, in order to introduce what officials term as ‘redundancy’, that would ensure transmission system works only at the optimum level, and is not driven to its full capacity, exposing it to breakdowns. 

 A breakdown at transmission level (above 66/220 kV) — can affect a wide swathe of area, unlike those at distribution level (11/33 kV) which impacts only small feeders, locally. Explaining the method to TOI, an official drew an analogy with a car engine, whose maximum speed could be around 200 km/hr, but is driven at 70-80 km/hr for optimum speed, efficiency and service.
 
 Until now, HVPNL had been running its systems at over 90% capacity. “But after we effect all the augmentation work as per the new plan, we aim to bring it down to 70-80%, which is considered optimum,” said Anil Yadav, superintendent engineer, HVPNL. 
 
 The changes, officials said, will translate into no shut-downs at HVPNL. In May last year, a major power breakdown had occurred at two key transformers of the Power Grid Corporation of India Limited’s grid in Sector 72, triggering unprecedented power crises across the city. To cope with the shortfall, HVPNL had to enforce rotational cuts.
 
 Towards this effect, officials are replacing all 12.5/16 MVA transformers with those bearing an enhanced capacity of 25/31.5 MVA. HVPNL has 25 such transformers in the city. Officials said they are adding new transformers in Daultabad, Sector 56 and Old Manesar. 
 
 “We have already added a new 15.5 MVA transformer in Daultabad. A new one of similar capacity has been added in Sector 56, and within a month, we’ll also add a 225/66 kVA and another 160 MVA transformer in the same area. A 31.5 MVA transformer will also be added in Old Manesar,” Yadav told TOI.
 
 He said these steps will bring down the load on each to around 70%, which will leave free 30% of their capacities on a stand-by mode, to be availed if there is a shut-down.
 
  Officials said a breakdown at transmission level is very significant, since it affects a vast area. “We have to ensure the system has an extended life span,” another official explained.
 
 HVPNL has also started work on five 220 kV transformers, one each in sectors 66, 77, 85, 95 and 69, all of which are in New Gurgaon. The cost at which all of them would be built is around Rs 300 crore. “At present, our capacity is 1,500 MVA,” Yadav said. “The requirement is for 1,600 MVA. The five transformers we’re going to add will increase the capacity by 1,000 MVA, which is more than the requirement. The objective is to get the system work at optimal level.” Yadav said all the transformers would be ready by December 2018.
 
 
