Nagpur: Coming to the rescue of an aggrieved family comprising a widow, her three children and mother-in-law, Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court directed the Central Railway (CR) to pay Rs8 lakh compensation to them along with 7.5% interest since 2012 for death of a man after falling from a running train. Flaying the Railway Claims Tribunal here, Justice Manish Pitale quashed its verdict of August 6, 2015 rejecting the family’s claim on the ground that they failed to prove that the death took place on account of “untoward incident” as per the Railways Act, 1989. “The tribunal’s approach is not only erroneous, but also hyper-technical. It can’t be that in all such cases of claims, there would be an eyewitness to prove the purchase of journey ticket by the deceased,” the judge said. Deceased Sanjay Awachare’s body was found lying on the railway tracks by goods train driver on March 30, 2012. The case was registered as an accidental death and after preliminary probe it was found that he was travelling from Bodwad to Bhusawal. Awachare’s wife Kavita, children — Ritesh, Nikhi and Asmita, along with mother Shantabai filed a claim before the tribunal for compensation as per the terms mentioned on the railway ticket, which was found in the deceased’s pocket. Rejecting their claims, the tribunal held that the petitioners failed to produce sufficient oral and documentary evidence to prove that Awachare died due to “untoward incident” within the meaning of Section 123(c) read with Section 124-A of the Railways Act, 1989. The petitioners then challenged the tribunal’s verdict in HC demanding a higher compensation of Rs8 lakh as per new gazette notification of December 22, 2016, by which the Centre had amended the ‘Railway Accidents and Untoward Incidents (Compensation) Rules, 1990’ by revising compensation for deaths during mishaps to Rs8 lakh from Rs4 lakh. The CR opposed it stating that the Awachare’s death took place before the gazette was issued. Quashing the tribunal’s observations, Justice Pitale stated that there was sufficient material to show that the deceased was travelling with a ticket and his death took place while travelling in a train and, therefore, the petitioners were entitled for compensation. “As regards to the medical evidence and the body’s condition, the tribunal has erred in concluding that such injuries couldn’t have been found if he (Awachare) would have fallen from a moving train. I don’t find any substance in this, because it’s very much possible to fall from a moving train and body being cut to pieces after being run over by another train.” The HC ruled that the petitioners had successfully proved their entitlement to compensation as per the amended rules as Awachare’s death took place in an “untoward incident”.