TRICHY: Even after tabling a surplus budget for the second straight year, Trichy   has resolved not to take the mounting tax dues lying down. It has decided to continue its clampdown on defaulters chipping away at its revenue. A week after listing the top 100 property tax defaulters, the Urban Local Body (ULB) has listed the top 500 people and institutes in the city with water tax dues amounting to Rs 1.56 crores. 

 Ironically, even government offices and educational institutes which often raised their voice for Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM) were found among the list of water charge defaulters. 
 
 With 20 to 25 per cent of the revenue of the corporation depending on property tax, water charges collected from residents and commercial establishments played a pivotal role in meeting its operational expenses. In fact, it accounted for 20 per cent of the civic body’s annual expenditure. 
 
 After the drought in 2017 severely affected potable water supply of the corporation, sources said that the civic body spent Rs 36 crores for water projects during 2017-2018. Potable water was something the residents has been enjoying for a long time thanks to the   river. However, the users, which included domestic and non-domestic consumers of corporation water, are found to be reluctant to pay their water charges, with dues stretching even up to 5 years. “We have been nudging the residents and commercial establishments for a while asking them to pay the water charge dues. Since the defaulters are not voluntarily paying them, we are going by the defaulters list to disconnect water connections,” an official with Trichy corporation said.
 
 The civic body has said that defaulters making their payments before March 31 would be spared from disconnection. Among the top 500 defaulters, as many as 276 were non-domestic consumers and the remaining 224 domestic. “After listing the defaulters’ names online, the collection of tax dues has increased. By ensuring that all tax and water charge dues are collected, the civic body can spend the revenue on the city’s development,” corporation commissioner   told TOI. Meanwhile, the corporation has expanded the list of the top 100 property tax defaulters’ to 500 for retrieving dues amounting to Rs 3.92 crores. 
 
 
