PANAJI: Union finance minister Arun Jaitley’s Budget for 2018-19 received a thumbs-up from Goa’s industry leaders because it gave the much-needed impetus to the rural economy, especially the agriculture sector. Though there was nothing specific for Goa, industrialists and financial experts felt that the Budget, by sticking to expectations, had avoided the pitfalls of being populist or retrospective in nature.

 “The agriculture sector has received a shot in the arm with multiple benefits given to it. This will open employment opportunities and also help improve the economy of the rural area and help to check migration to the urban areas,” chairman, national council for micro, small and medium enterprises on ASSOCHAM, Manguirish Pai Raikar said.
 
 Though there was no specific announcement for Goa, the Budget did speak about construction of ropeways to promote tourism and promotion of investment in seaplane services.
 
 “I would have hoped that there would have been some mention of iron ore mining, some exemptions for Goa’s mining sector. But, in terms of a long-term vision, this is a great budget,” said chairman of chartered accountant association Vinesh Pikle.
 
 “Compared to earlier budgets which focused on road and rail transportation, we are now talking about Sagar Mala and Udaan. I think we are progressing in the right direction because these are modes of transport which are efficient and cheaper,” said president of Goa State Industries Association Rajkumar Kamat.
 
 President of Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry Sandip Bhandare saw the influence of demonetization and implementation of the Goods and   (GST) in the  . “The tax returns have gone up. The second factor is the revenue going up. In 2016-17, the growth in revenue from tax was 12.6%, while the growth till January 2018 is 18.7%,” Bhandare said.
 
 He went on to say that due to the implementation of GST, the estimate of the number of formal jobs had shown an increase. “Earlier, the estimate was that informal jobs were more than the formal jobs, but with GST, the estimate shows an increase in formal jobs and these have come to light because of the registrations under GST,” he said.
 
 Bhandare also pointed out that because of digitization, demonetization and GST, a 360 degree profile of the Indian economy was available. Entrepreneurs and chartered accountants agreed that the Budget had defied expectations of being a populist budget. With this being the penultimate Budget for the   government before it seeks a second term in 2019, expectations were that Jaitley would go all out to woo the voters.
 
 Experts also pointed out that with several reforms already underway and with indirect taxation in the domain of GST, Jaitley had very little wiggle room.
 
 
