Launched in September 2012, Times Celebex is a monthly rating index based on several measurable parameters, including the stars’ Box-Office performance, their ability to stay in the news across print, TV and online, their brand endorsements, and their popularity among fans on the Internet and social media. These are taken cumulatively to assign the actors a final rank called the ‘T Score’. Times Celebex is a scientific and robust ranking system based on data collected from 60+ publications and 250+ TV channels, making it the first ever ranking system for Bollywood. We have put together the stars’ ranking for the month of January 2018.

  made an impact with his portrayal of Alaudin Khilji in Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s much-talked-about period drama, 'Padmaavat'. 
  impressed the audience with her poise and grace as Maharani Padmavati in Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s 'Padmaavat'.
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  leaps from the 12th rank to the 2nd rank 
 
  leaps from the 44th rank to the 8th rank
 
  leaps from the 13th rank to the 7th rank
 
  leaps from the 25th rank to the 12th rank 
 
  leaps from the 26th rank to the 13th rank 
 
  leaps from the 28th rank to the 17th rank 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 His nuanced performance as the Mewar royal in 'Padmaavat' was appreciated. 
 
 While Padman’s promotions were going strong, he postponed it for 'Padmaavat'. 
 
 He was shooting for third outing in the 'Race' franchise which made a lot of news. 
 
 The first look of Aanand L Rai’s dwarf film was revealed alongside its title, 'Zero'.
 
  His ill-health pushed him to take a backseat from social appearances, temporarily. 
 
 His father announced the release date of the next film in the 'Krrish' franchise. 
 
  He continued his winning streak at award shows with 'Newton' and 'Bareilly Ki Barfi'. 
 
 The promotions of 'Aiyaary' took him to the BSF Camp in Jaisalmer. 
 
  He started shooting for 'Sui Dhaaga' with the newly-wed Anushka Sharma. 
 
 
 
  The talk around her impending marriage with   gained momentum. 
 
 She was seen travelling for the recce of her next, 'Brahmastra'. 
 
 She returned from her mini honeymoon and plunged into 'Sui Dhaaga'. 
 
  She shot her international projects and featured on international glossy covers. 
 
 : She joined Rajkummar Rao for 'Stree' and continued to work on 'Saaho'. 
 
 She shot the third film in the 'Race' franchise with Salman Khan. 
 
  She was in the news for her upcoming films like 'Kesari'. 
 
  The promotions of 'Welcome to New York' kicked in at the end of the month. 
 
  She was in the news for her romantic pictures with her husband on social media. 
 
 
 
