CHANDIGARH: Vehicles parked irresponsibly jamming the narrow parking space of   has become a crucial limitation of Sector 22.

 The roads connected to the rehri market area of Sector 22, along with the ones leading outside towards the adjacent market block remains completely choked with the haphazardly parked vehicles all throughout the day. This brings in a lot of trouble for vehicles and pedestrians visiting the market or crossing it on their way towards their destination.
 
 While the continuous presence of impenetrable walls of encroachment on both the sides of the otherwise narrow road has been severely affecting the parking prospects in the area, the irresponsible parking behaviour of people visiting the market has further worsened the situation to a greater degree. “I have been living in this city for over eighteen years now, but do not remember facing parking issues like these ever before. The problems have increased in the last three-four years and now finding a parking spot in this market is almost like a miracle,” said S N  , a Sector 19 resident. 
 
 “This market no longer has space for vehicles, but people do really not care. They will never park the cars in a responsible manner. They are least bothered about other people’s convenience. I do have regular experiences of getting stuck by a barrage of cars parked on the roadside, narrowing the road even more, causing other cars to queue up resulting in an logjam,” said  , a customer.
 
 The presence of several two-wheelers parked on one side of the road with a large number of autos parked on the other also directly obstruct parking spaces and cause inconvenience in smooth movement of traffic.
 
 When noticed closely, this problem has also been found to be a recurrent affair in the lanes of the next market block as well, where haphazrdly parked vehicles have resulted in traffic jams.
 
 When asked, a traffic cop said, “We do have regular drills for checking parking defaulters, but these are only for the main road of Sector 22. Whereas all these cars are either parked on the backside of the showrooms or right next to the market, which becomes a complex affair because a high number of vehicles are parked in these places everyday.”
 
 
