HYDERABAD: Thousands of   registered in  , but plying in   are ‘moving coffins’, which endanger lives with their dangerous designs, states a petition in high court by RTC trade union leader Varahala Naidu.

 His counsel P V A Padmanabham said when Supreme Court refuses to allow even a metal ladder to be set up at back of buses on the ground it would disturb the balance of the bus, Arunachal sleeper coaches are unlawfully expanded to accommodate more berths.
 
 This will make drivers unstable and they will find it difficult to balance and control the vehicles, he said.
 
 In fact, Arunachal Pradesh itself banned these sleeper coaches. After unrelenting efforts by Varahala Naidu and intervention by courts, Andhra Pradesh State too asked transport authorities not to accord permits to Arunachal buses and had asked authorities not to collect quarterly tax.
 
 When some buses defied norms, they were seized. Challenging the seizure, scores of private buses moved high court.
 
 Earlier, a single-judge bench gave direction to authorities to allow plying of buses which paid tax. Aggrieved by the order, the state of AP preferred an appeal.
 
 Adivision bench modified the single-judge order and asked bus owners to deposit tax in a separate account with the transport department which should not use money till case is resolved.
 
 However, taking a cue from this, authorities issued GO RT No. 367, allowing 'illegal' busses to run in the state on depositing tax. Many bus owners then withdrew pleas before high court.
 
 Varahala Naidu is now urging the court to withdraw relief because they withdrew their petitions. Andhra Pradesh authorities misinterpreted this HC relief and issued a blanket permission to these buses to ply.
 
 A bench of Acting Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice G Shyam Prasad on Wednesday heard the plea and sought a reply on the effect of the GO.
 
 The trade union leader's counsel Padmanabham told court the GO states that because of the HC order, they are permitting unlawfully long buses to ply.
 
 The bench then told him the remedy lies in challenging the validity of the GO before the court. The counsel agreed to challenge the GO in coming days.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
