SECUNDERABAD: It was 'shramdan' of a different kind. Enraged by the inaction of the   authorities in taking up road repairs and filling potholes, a motley group of residents of   took it upon themselves to clear the mess on a 40ft road beside St John's Junior College close to the every busy   on Sunday by spending Rs 4,000. Not stopping at that, they even rechristened the 200-metre stretch as ' ' - taking a jibe at municipal administration minister  . 

 
  
  
 
 
 
 The clean-up drive began at 10.30 am and was completed by 12 pm by around 50 locals and activists of 'Save Bison Polo Ground' campaign, who were pretty cut up with the municipal authorities' apathy. The road is a major link between Sangeet Crossroads and West Marredpally, AOC Circle, Safilguda, Malkajgiri, Yapral and Addagutta. Call it a 'Munnabhai act' by residents, video of their initiative have gone viral in social media with nearly 3,000 hits.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Resident SV Prabhakar's anger said it all. "We had to take up the gauntlet. As our pleas have fallen on the deaf ears of the authorities to repair the potholes, we wanted to teach the authorities a lesson. Our outstanding work and initative should be a role model to residents of other colonies," he observed. An old resident of the colony Alakanda Tara said: "We are proud of the residents who took the initiative and set the record straight." 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 It was on November 27 last year when locals along with commuters staged a protest on this very road and invited US President Donald Trump’s daughter Ivanka Trump, who was on a visit to Hyderabad, to pay a visit to their colony. GHMC had spent close to ₹70 crore for giving facelift to arterial roads and taking up beautification works on the routes Ivanka had travelled. The general criticism against the civic body was that it had conveniently ignored road repairs and other works where they were needed the most.
 
 “The length of the stretch near Marredpally college is 200 meters. We spent Rs 4,000 on concrete mix, granite stones, and water. We contributed the amount from our own pockets. We launched the repair works at 10.30 am and completed by 12 noon,” M Krishank, one of the activists of Save Bison Polo Ground campaign said. The civic authorities did not bother to fill the potholes on the stretch, he explained.
 
 Making no bones about their anger, the activists and residents even displayed placards against the GHMC’s inaction.
 
 Soon after completion of the repairs, they named the stretch as ‘KTR-Ivanka Trump Road’. “This is a great initiative. I take the road almost every day. The potholes are dime a dozen and now, it’s a huge relief to traverse on the stretch,” Nikhil Nayak, a local, told 
 .
 
 Close to 3,000 commuters use this stretch, he added.
 
