Braving a financial fuel crunch and political potholes, finance minister   rode the budget scooter on Thursday with a goody bag that is expected to bring immediate cheer to some sections, but put the government vehicle at risk of a breakdown in the long run.

 
 The first   budget after implementation of   offered ample financial support for freebies, salaries and pensions to government employees despite increasing interest outgo on heightened borrowings. One of the first visible results was the revenue deficit growing by 10%. In the end, the government managed to peg the fiscal deficit below 3% of GSDP by restricting the capital expenditure. 
  
 
 
 Living beyond its means for a few years, the state had promised to either lower the revenue deficit or have a surplus in the account. However, the government has failed to keep up promises on both fronts, and the revenue account deficit is on the rise.
 
 
 While in 2016-17 it was due to   joining the Uday scheme, in 2017-18 it was the pay commission recommendations because of which the deficit in the revenue account increased to Rs 18,370 crore from the estimated ?15,994 crore.
 
 
 Salaries and pension alone constitute 40% of the revenue expenditure. The state’s total debt is now pegged at Rs 3.55 lakh crore at the end of next financial year. Due to the burgeoning debt, the interest burden has been on the rise and is expected to be Rs 29,624 crore in 2018-19, against the capital expenditure of Rs 28,282crore for that year.
 
 
 But OPS said he was confident. “I am confident that our state will gain from GST in due course, since the gap between the projected revenue with 14% growth rate and actual revenue has been shrinking considerably over these eight months,” he said. Similarly, there was optimism that revenue from petroleum products as well as from registration and stamp duty would increase.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Overall, the government hopes to earn Rs 1.76 lakh crore through taxes and non-tax revenue, as well as devolution of tax revenue as state’s share from the Centre. But the total expenditure is pegged at Rs 1.91 lakh crore.
 
 
 “The state has lowered the increase of capital expenditure which for a state like Tamil Nadu does not augur well. It is only by spending more on capital expenditure that a state like Tamil Nadu will be able to woo more industries and provide employment,” said a senior economist.
 
 
 There are also doubts about the amount projected as expenditure on salaries and pension. “The coming year will be the first full year in which the revised pay commission benefits will be implemented. Between 2016-17 and 2017-18, the expenditure on salaries and pensions had increased by as much as Rs 5,000 crore which must be due to implementing pay commission for a few months last year. But today’s budget does not provide for full year implementation due to which the revenue deficit is expected to be lower,” said the economist.
 
 
