PATIALA: To take   out of financial crisis, the professors and the vice-chancellor of the university have started contributing and pooling in donations from their salary. The university is facing a crisis since a long time with the decline in governmental grants as well as the university’s increasing expenses.

 The university authorities also claimed that an amount of over Rs 22 crore is yet to be released by the government for a period of the past three years under the scholarship scheme for the scheduled castes and backward class (SC and BC) students. The fiscal crisis of the university results in a delay of disbursement of salaries of all the employees including professors. “The grants for the university have declined in the past many years. I don’t know the exact figures of crisis the university is facing,” said registrar  .
 
 The VC Prof B S Ghuman, dean academic affairs G S Batra, registrar M S Nijjar and dean college development council Prof   deposited cheques of Rs 1 lakh each and agreed for auto-debit of Rs 5,000 per month from their bank accounts. On the appeal of the VC, a number of NRIs, who are alumni of the university, in addition to many teachers and employees, have also committed to donating money to the university in this regard. 
 
 The VC has also appealed to all concerned, especially the management of private colleges, to donate liberally for the noble cause. The VC claimed that they can deposit their donations online in the name of registrar of the Punjabi University, Patiala as the funds raised will be open for a social audit to keep the whole mechanism fair and transparent.
 
 “A new chapter in the history of Punjabi University was added on the auspicious occasion of New Year today as a number of professors and other faculty decided to pour in large amount of money towards financial aid to salvage the university from its present financial crisis. I made a beginning by pledging to deduct 10% from my retirement benefits that range between Rs 3 to 4 lakh, auto-debiting Rs 1,500 per month from my salary and adopting one topper student of the Centre for paying his tuition fee if he/she is unable to do so,” said Media Centre director Gurmeet Maan. 
 
 Dalip Singh Uppal, former FO and  , a former professor and HoD of Theatre and Television have already donated Rs 1 lakh and 1.25 lakhs, respectively. Prof Gurnam Singh, HoD of Gurmat Sangeet and additional dean students’ welfare (girls) Amritpal Kaur have also offered to deduct Rs 2,000 monthly from their salaries.
 
 
