CHANDIGARH: Sikh taxi drivers are frequent victims of hate crimes in America, Australia and other countries, especially post 9/11. Just last year one had his turban snatched off his head by a passenger in New York, while another was stabbed to death in Washington. The latest case is of Uber taxi driver Gurjeet Singh who was assaulted by a passenger in what rights body   is citing as a clear bias-based hate crime. But the Sikh community is frustrated that cops haven't arrested anyone three weeks later, nor have hate crime charges been imposed.

 Singh has lived in Northwest Illinois, America, for three years and is the head granthi at the local gurdwara. Singh was driving a Caucasian male and female when his male passenger began asking questions such as: “Which country do you belong to?”, “Do you serve our country or do you serve your country?”. After Singh explained that he serves both America as well as India as his parents still reside there, the passenger became angry and put a gun to Singh’s head and said “I hate turban people; I hate beard people”. After stopping the car, the female passenger forcibly removed her male companion from the car and instructed Singh to drive her home via a different route to avoid another encounter with the attacker. Singh reported the incident to police the next day.
 
 The Rock Island county sheriff’s department attributed the delay to Uber not responding to their warrant for the attacker’s Uber account information. Amrith Kaur, legal director of the Sikh Coalition, explains: “We respect the investigatory process, however if they are somehow waiting on Uber to confirm that this hate crime happened, then I fear we will be waiting for justice forever in this case. We know this man has a gun, hates people with turbans and beards, and threatened to take our client’s life while he was his Uber passenger. This is hate violence, and any additional Uber records won’t change that fact”. On February 16, the sheriff ’s office committed to handing over the investigation to the state attorney,   for the filing of criminal charges. However, McGehee has since promptly issued a statement stating that his office must refer the case out due to a conflict of interest. Amrith Kaur elaborates: “We refuse to hypothesize about what the conflict of interest inside the Rock Island state’s attorney office is, but it’s fair for all of us to wonder why this very straightforward hate crime case has dragged on for three weeks without an arrest and hate crime charges ..."
 
 The incident, and the lack of action taken, brings into question the place of the Punjabi diaspora in America, and this is reflected in Gurjeet Singh’s own comments: “I want my community and family to feel safe. Authorities should arrest and charge the man who attacked me without further delay because bigotry has no place in our society."
 
 In April 2017, a Sikh New York taxi cab driver   was attacked and his turban was stolen during a confrontation with a drunken passenger. Harkirat had picked up three men and a woman from   to go Bronx. When they arrived at the destination, they complained that he had taken them to the wrong address. The passengers began hurling insults, calling him “Ali Baba”.
 
 When Singh told them to pay him the fare and find another cab, they tried to smash his meter, punched him and picked off the turban from his head. In another case last year, Gagandeep Singh was stabbed to death in Washington by a 19-year-old passenger.
 
