NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party on Thursday accused   of leading a conspiracy to topple the party’s   in the wake of the April 2017 civic polls rout. A day earlier, Vishwas had bitterly criticised the party leadership for denying him the nomination to a Rajya Sabha seat.

 In a Facebook Live interaction with party volunteers, AAP’s Delhi convenor   alleged attempts to topple the state government after the municipal elections. “Kumar Vishwas was at the centre of all this and was the key person behind the conspiracy,” Rai claimed.
 
 The   leader also accused a few MLAs, including the suspended Kapil Mishra, of participating in conspiracy meetings at Vishwas’ home. He added that Mishra was sacked from the cabinet when this came to the party’s notice and attributed the AAP Bawana MLA’s joining   after the corporation elections to this “conspiracy”.
 
 Rai claimed that the party had brought up the topic of the conspiracy with Vishwas, who denied being a part of it. “But the comments and remarks of Vishwas since the civic polls suggest otherwise. Can a person who has been speaking against the party become the voice of the party in Rajya Sabha?” he asked.
 
 TOI contacted Vishwas for his reaction, but the AAP leader did not pick up the calls. He didn’t give a reply to a detailed SMS sent to him regarding Rai’s charges either.
 
 Much of Thursday’s Live interaction was dedicated to justifying the party’s decision to choose Sushil Gupta and ND Gupta as Rajya Sabha nominees. While hailing ND Gupta as an expert on GST, Rai rubbished accusations of a “deal” in giving Sushil Gupta the ticket. Describing him as a dedicated social worker, Rai said Sushil Gupta would aid AAP’s expansion in Haryana where he runs a number of educational institutions.
 
 Vishwas was AAP’s first choice for the Rajya Sabha early in 2017, but the party had a rethink holding him answerable to indirectly attacking the government on the issue of corruption. Close associates of Vishwas have scotched speculations in the media that the pugnacious leader would relinquish charge of AAP’s Rajasthan unit and retire from politics.
 
 Meanwhile, Kapil Mishra announced that slain AAP volunteer Santosh Koli’s mother would fight the Rajya Sabha elections on Friday and appealed to party MLAs to vote for her. 
 
 
