Thiruvananthapuram: After remaining closed for four years for renovation,  , an architectural marvel situated at Nedumangad, was opened for public on Wednesday. The palace houses a numismatic and folklore museum in it.

 Built in the traditional ‘nalukettu’ style, the two-storey structure was built for regent queen Umayamma Rani of Venad royal family in the 17th century. The palace has also been a tourist attraction since the state archaeology department took over its upkeep in 1980.
 
 Minister for archaeology and archives, Ramachandran Kadannappalli, who opened the renovated palace and museum, announced that the state government has given administrative sanction for Rs 66 lakh for the second phase of renovation of the palace. 
 
 “Heritage museums are the symbols of the bygone era and the young generation should show interest in learning about the cultural heritage of the country,” the minister said in his address.
 
 He also released a brochure on the palace museum by handing over its first copy to Chettachal Sahadevan, chairman of Nedumangad municipal corporation.
 
 Presiding over the function, C Divakaran, MLA, noted that the palace needed a proper security system as the museum has rare ancient coins and priceless folklore objects. He also suggested setting up a research centre at the palace to enable scholars from all over the world to come and study the heritage of the region. J Rejikumar, director, archaeology department, welcomed the gathering.
 
 A report on the renovation presented on the occasion noted that though the state had submitted an estimate of Rs 5 crore to the Centre for the project, the entire amount was not sanctioned and the state had to provide Rs 3.49 crore for the work in 2013. Of this more than Rs 2 crore had already been spent. The archaeology department is yet to get the second instalment of the Central fund, he said. The heritage museum has been functioning at the palace since 1992.
 
 The gallery consists of rarest coins used by various civilizations, including the ancient Rome, throwing light into the maritime and mercantile ties of the region with the outside world. The museum is also a treasure house of folklore fripperies, ancient domestic equipment, traditional and quaint music instruments, weapons and a wide range of other objects of antiquity.
 
 
