VIJAYAWADA : The second conclave of finance ministers of states to press for   was held in Andhra Pradesh capital   with state chief minister Chandrababu Naidu playing host, just months after pulling out of NDA. Six states and Union Territory Puducherry send representatives, despite invites being sent to 11 non-NDA states. Tamil Nadu and Telangana, conspicuous by their absence on Monday, had also skipped the first finance ministers’ meet of southern states in Thiruvananthapuram.

 The conclave hammered out a three-page draft memorandum, seeking major amendments to   (ToR) made by 15th   on funds allocation to states with AAP-led Delhi government declaring it would move Rashtrapati Bhawan and host a national-level seminar on the issue in Delhi.
 
 
 Talking to reporters, Andhra Pradesh finance minister   Ramakrishnudu and Kerala finance minister Thomas   said, “Delhi government has decided to take the debate ahead by conducting a national seminar on ToR in June”.
 
 Isaac said the draft memorandum will be circulated among participating states and their chief ministers will brainstorm before the final draft is prepared. The draft stated ToR of the 15th Finance Commission violates the Constitution’s federal spirit. “It raises serious concerns and it’s qualitatively different from earlier finance commissions,” said Yanamala. The draft memorandum stated there are well-established precedents for amending ToR if it violates Article 280 and 275 of the Constitution.
 
 The conclave sought the 1971 census as criteria for tax devolution to states and not 2011 population. The recommendation of Finance Commission will impact states that achieved population control, it stated.
 
 Another amendment sought was on reference to central flagship schemes. “This is one way of disbursing funds and then taking it away. Setting criteria for incentives to flagship programmes has never happened before,” said Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra.
 
 Another amendment sought was the move to monitor revenue deficit grants to states. “Many states, including  , have a revenue deficit. If gap-filling mechanism is curtailed through ToR, it will hit many states,” said Yanamala.
 
 Deletion of proposed limitations of states to borrow from abroad under Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act (2003) by linking it to fiscal health of states was also stoutly opposed. The draft also wanted changes in ToR which seeks to control populist schemes. Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia sought inclusion of Union Territories with legislatures along with states in the 15th finance commission.
 
 
