CHANDIGARH: The Haryana government has decided to form a new non-banking financial company ( ) Haryana State   Limited ( ) to act as an in-house treasury manager for efficient management of surplus funds of state public enterprises and autonomous bodies.

  minister Captain Abhimanyu, while addressing the newspersons after the meeting of the state cabinet, said the NBFC would provide better deposit rates on the overnight funds of the state government entities. “Besides, it would provide better deposit rates throughout the year to state government entities. It would also provide much better lending rates to state government entities than banking industry,” he said.
 
 The decision comes at a time when the state government is faced with the allegation of overdrawing of loans through sale of securities, which has resulted into a huge public debt. According to information, Haryana’s debt has crossed over Rs 1.41 lakh crore. Opposition had been attacking chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and his team for poor fiscal management.
 
 According to information, the newly set up NBFC would enable quick and hassle-free lending and create financial discipline among the state government entities. It would also result in centralized mechanism for prudent management of funds under the overall control and supervision of the general administration department.
 
 The HSFL would be established as a limited company under the Companies Act and registered with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) as an NBFC. The authorised capital of the company will be Rs 10 crore and the paid up capital will be Rs 2 crore in the first instance. The entire equity of the company will be held by the state government while the general administration department will be the administrative department of the company.
 
 The company would advance, deposit, lend money or provide financial assistance with or without security to the state government, a body corporate, government company, state or municipal body, local body, wholly owned or semi owned by the government. It will carry on the business of a finance company and provide short or long term loans to the state government entities. Also, it will receive grants, loans, advances or other monies or deposits or otherwise, from state or central government, banks, financial institutions, companies, trusts, cooperative societies, other financing agencies or individuals with or without interest.
 
 The chief secretary would be the chairman of the company, whereas administrative secretaries of finance, cooperation, power, industries, agriculture, town and country planning and urban local bodies departments will be other ex-officio directors. While an eminent finance professional having hands on experience of funds management will be independent director of the company, secretary, finance department will be the managing director.
 
 Chit Fund Rules
 
 With a view to check increasing number of willful financial irregularities and frauds committed by the chit fund companies and to protect the interests of small investors in chits, the Haryana government has decided to frame Haryana Chit Fund Rules, 2018 to provide a mechanism for effective implementation of the Chit Fund Act, 1982. These rules would provide a mechanism to protect the hard earned money invested in such chit fund companies by the investors.
 
 Other cabinet decisions
 
 With a view to improve the functioning of rehabilitation and de-addiction centres, the cabinet approved the proposal to amend the Haryana De-addiction Rules, 2010 to check illegal de-addiction centers in the state. The amendment provides setting of state-level committee comprising official and non-official members. The administrative secretaries of health, social justice and empowerment and women and child development departments, director general of police or his representative, not below the rank of additional director general of police and directors of social justice and empowerment and higher education departments, would be official members of the committee.
 
 Cabinet gives go-ahead to adding urban residents in PMAY
 
 Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar-led cabinet decided to make provisions for inclusion of PMAY-urban beneficiaries in the existing Affordable Housing Policy 2013, which is being implemented by the urban development department.
 
 
