GOLD COAST: Twice he tried to join the Army but on both occasions he was rejected citing his lack of height. Next he tried the Navy and after two medicals, he was again shown the door. The reason? He had a missing tooth.

 
 
 
 On Thursday, the much-rejected P   was proving so many wrong when he stood proud on the Commonwealth Games podium with a silver medal around his neck. The Air Force saw merit in him which the other two wings of the services could not and their faith was being reposed to the full by a sergeant in their ranks.
 
 
 
 Gururaja edged out Sri Lanka’s Chaturanga Lakmal with his last lift in clean and jerk in the 56 kg category. It was the closest of finishes. “I managed to lift 138 on my third attempt after stumbling twice,” he said later.
 
 The Indian lifted a total of 249 kg (111+138) ahead of Lankan’s 248. Muhammad Izar Ahmad of Malaysia easily won the gold with a Games record lift of 261 (117+144).
 
  
  
 
 It was a close as it was towering, but there were backstories to it that could fill a book. Gururaja began his serious sporting career as a wrestler – even forming part of the Karnataka state team for two years.
 
 “I watched Sushil Kumar winning the   gold in 2010 and then told myself that I can also get a CWG medal in wrestling. But now I’m happy I won it in weightlifting,” he laughed. But first, the man’s services saga. “After a medal in the Nationals, I tried to get into the Army in 2013 and 2014. But my height was only 155cm against the Army’s sport quota standard of 170 cms,” revealed Gururaja. “Then I went to the Navy but there they pointed to my teeth after a re-medical in Delhi. I joined Indian Air Force in 2015 and my career began to take wing,” Gururaja told TOI.
 
 Gururaja, the fifth of six siblings, hails from a modest background in Karnataka’s Kundapur village. His father still makes a living driving a mini-truck. “He used to be a truck driver for a tiles factory in Mangalore from a young age and travelled across the country. But now he drives his own mini-truck,” he said.
 
 “Despite his hardships, my dad Mahabala Poojari and mom Paddu Poojari never allowed us to struggle. He didn’t want any of us to become a driver. Two of my brothers work in canteens while the others work in plantations,” he said. “I was a long-distance runner in high school. Then in college I began wrestling and was part of the state team for two years.”
 
 Gururaja’s weightlifting career began after he joined SDM College in Ujire. 
 
 “I joined the college which gave me free hostel, education and sports coaching. It was there I met weightlifting coach Rajendra Prasad. It all changed from there.”
 
 
