KOLKATA: Sending your child to school in pool cars or schoolbuses operated by contract carriage owners is far from safe. Immediate intervention is needed to streamline the system of shared mode of school transport since the basic parameters are far from being satisfactory and students are being dangerously ferried, a team of experts from IIT-Kharagpur has alerted Kolkata Police.

 
 
  
 
 
 According to the   team, pool cars and buses are just 45% safe and 27% secured compared to private cars ferrying kids to school. In most other parameters as well, the pool car/bus system has failed the test. The team has concluded that parents who are using this mode have no choice.
 
 Kolkata Police had asked IIT-Kharagpur to assess the current system of shared mode of school transport and suggest ways in which the dependence of parents on private cars can be reduced. This would ultimately ease traffic snarls during school hours. Experts from the IIT school of transportation engineering have studied the existing problem in two schools — St Xavier’s Collegiate School and   because they represent the problem well.
 
 The team, led by faculty member Bhargab  , interviewed over 7,000 parents, analyzed the replies/complaints then came to its conclusions on the basis of mathematical models and analyses.
 
 “Kids are huddled together in pool cars and the focus is on how to pack in more, leave alone giving proper escorts to handhold them. The helpers and drivers are extremely rude and deal with kids as well as parents rudely,” Maitra said.
 
 Apart from criticising the condition of vehicles, the report highlights that many a times even non-licenced helpers pitch in to drive in the mornings, taking advantage of low vigilance at that time. “We have recommended that new rules be framed about the kind of cars and buses that can be used as pool, the fitness requirements of these vehicles, special training for drivers and a host of other things, if Kolkata Police really wants to see this shift from private ferrying to pool ferrying,” Maitra said.
 
 The team has also submitted a suggestive “desired traffic flow” map around South Point High School to Kolkata Police that can help ease pressure during peak school hours. A similar map is being prepared for St Xavier’s School as well.
 
