TIRUVANNAMALAI: After conducting an inspection along the Girivalam path around Annamalai Hills in   on Thursday, district collector   categorically denied the allegations that the trees had been injected with acid. He said the trees had died due to “stem borer insects attack.” 

 The inspection, however, revealed that the officials of state highways had failed to protect and maintain the trees along the Girivalam path. Several other trees were facing death.
 
 Of the total 1,185 trees on either side of the 14km Girivalam path, 62 trees have been withered in three stretches – Kanchi Road, Hill Round Road and Krishnagiri -Puducherry Road. 
 
 “Of the 62 trees, 56 trees died and six other trees are on the verge of death due to stem borer attack for nearly two years. We are taking measures to retrieve six trees,” said the collector who conducted an inspection along with assistant professors V Radhakrishnan (entomologist) and M Sivaprakash (forestry) of Agricultural College and Research Centre, a constituent college of   Agricultural University (TNAU).
 
 Officials from state highways, revenue and forest department also accompanied the collector. The inspection was taken up after activists and environmentalists had alleged that miscreants had injected acid and chemicals into the trees to kill them. “We have also taken soil samples from all the 62 wilted trees, and there was no sign of foul play,” he said.
 
 The 56 dead trees would be uprooted. In the meantime, a survey would be carried out to access the situation and identify spots to take up tree plantation in large scale along the Girivalam path, said the collector. 
 
 “We will also take efforts to conduct periodical inspections to check the condition of the trees to avoid such incidents again,” he added.
 
 Assistant professor Radhakrishnan said the insect – stem borers – would lay around 100 eggs on the base of the trunk portion of a healthy tree. “At the second stage (grub), the insect will drill numerous holes and enter into the stems and remains till they turn adults. It will eat the heartwoods and turn the trunk into hollow. An early sign is that the branches start to dry and wilt,” he said.
 
 He said activists had mistaken the ooze out (discharge of the insects) through the holes on the dead trees as acid or chemicals. 
 
 “Technics like swabbing (mixing cold tar, kerosene and paint around the trunk) and closing almost all holes with clay and stuffing one hole with insecticide-soaked cotton can kill the insects,” he said.
 
 Officials in state highways said that no tree had been felled by the department in the last five years as environmentalists were up against it. Hence, the dead trees remained untouched. All of a sudden, people noticed the dead trees and started to question us. 
 
 "Though we have permission to remove 11 trees on the Girivalam path, we did not take up the work to avoid problems," said an official in the state highways. 
 
 However, he didn’t have an answer when asked why the department had failed to protect the trees from insect attacks.
 
 
