NEW DELHI: The clanking of an earthmover and swirling sand in the wind greet early morning walkers at New Delhi’s iconic India Gate. When they peer over the forest green barricade that now divides the stately sweep from the cupola that once held the statue of King George V to Rashtrapati Bhawan far in the distance, they can see construction work going on.

 Foxed visitors unused to barricading on the green space, except around Republic Day, are informed of what is happening by a sign that says, “NWM work in progress. Inconvenience is regretted.” NWM stands for  , which is finally under construction at India Gate almost five decades after a request was made by the armed forces.
  
  
 The project at the expanse around the 73-ft cupola looking on to   will commemorate the deaths of over 26,000 soldiers in battles and operations after 1947. The area is now sealed for both those who go there for their daily constitutional and for tourists and visitors. The completion of the memorial, conceived as a landscaped structure with retaining walls bearing the names of all soldiers who have died in battles and operations since 1947, is scheduled for August this year and of a war museum at the adjoining   for July 2020.
 
 The area is a popular stop for Delhiites and for tourists, and the construction work will prove a temporary hassle. Sanjay Malik, a tour guide of 20 years’ standing, said that after work began a month ago, it has been difficult to park cars here and he has had to make his clients walk some distance to the British-built edifice honouring Indian soldiers who died in battles. 
 
 India Gate is a must-visit on Malik’s itinerary, and the tourist guide cannot wait for the war memorial to be completed so that the magnificent panorama of power structures, so meticulously planned by Sir Edwin Lutyens, can be back to its inspiring self. At the moment, Malik says, “Everything has been covered and the sightseeing experience is hampered.”
 
 Some tourists, however, do not mind the disruption. Saying it was temporary, Praveen Yadav, who had come from Haryana’s   district, affirmed he would return with his wife and two children to see the war memorial.
 
 The war memorial project has had a well-debated run-up. In 2012, after the then UPA government mooted the plan,  , who was Delhi   at the time, objected to the new structure coming up at India Gate. She said that while she appreciated the need to honour the martyrs, a memorial at Central Vista was not a good idea for two reasons: it wouldn’t meld with the historic aesthetics of the area, and it would affect free movement of people due to the security that would need to be mounted for the structure and the war museum.
 
 Mindful of such views held by Dikshit and many heritage experts, Delhi Urban Art Commission gave its approval early this year to the Rs 500-crore project with riders. DUAC advised planners to ensure visual and physical continuity with the Central Vista. “Tree planting should be done in a way that the scale and width of the Vista from Rashtrapati Bhawan to   is continued. The tree lines should be matched with those along Rajpath,” the panel directed.
 
 The vendors are dismayed at the reduction in the number of people coming there due to lack of parking space. Kishan Pal, who claims to have had an ice-cream stall there for 17 years, said, “For every Rs 100 that we earned earlier, we earn Rs 25 now. Business has been hit because people can no longer stop to spend some time on the green lawns.” Pal’s words were echoed by another vendor, Naresh Kumar, who set up his food stall two years ago. Kumar said his business had halved because of the decrease in the number of visitors.
 
 Abhijeet Shinde, an NRI, wasn’t concerned much about the paucity of parking but was dismayed by the mess at the site. “I am sure people will not mind walking a bit to see this magnificent site. But the lack of cleanliness is definitely an eyesore. The authorities should clear the debris lying around,” said Shinde.
 
 The government, in its 2014 Budget, had made an allocation for the war memorial erection at India Gate. Besides the walls with the names of martyrs inscribed on them, the museum is expected to showcase important aspects of India’s military history.
 
 
