CHANDIGARH : The Punjab and   high court on Friday issued a notice to the state government on a plea alleging irregularities in the selection of the registrar of the Council of Homeopathic System of Medicine, Haryana.

 The main allegations in the case are that the selection process was made in violation of the rules just to benefit  , who was appointed as the registrar in December 2017. Allegations include change in the selection criteria by placing restrictions and new eligibility conditions to the post.
 
 A probe by a central agency has been sought for the alleged irregularities in Bidani’s recruitment as the registrar.
 
 Justice Rajiv Narain Raina issued the notice to principal secretary, department of health, director of ayush department, council chairman, Bidani and all members of the selection committee to respond to the contentions raised by the petitioner.
 
 The council governs the registration of all homeopathy practitioners in Haryana. The matter has reached before the HC in wake of the petition filed by Dr Surender Kumar Vats, a resident of   district.
 
 In his submission to the HC, the petitioner said the advertisement for the registrar’s post was posted by the chairman of the council Dr   but being a gazetted post, it should have been filled through the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC).
 
 Counsel for the petitioner,   submitted that the standard process was to seek approval for recruitment from the state government and also seek financial and administrative approval for the post and get the budgetary provision. However, in this case, no financial or administrative approval for the post had been taken by the department of Ayush despite the fact that the present post had not been filled even once since the inception of the body.
 
 It was further alleged that the entire selection process was full of nepotism and corruption and the selection of Bidani was pre-determined. The petitioner alleged that the written examination paper was also leaked by the department to benefit the selected candidate.
 
 “The criminal conspiracy to cause loss to the government exchequer and to cause undue benefit to Bidani clearly made out. There was tampering in the written examination held for the post. Even members of the interview panel disagreed and two of them had given 0 mark to the selected candidate”, the counsel has alleged. The petitioner also claimed that the entire episode was videographed, and the videography could be summoned to verify these facts.
 
 Another petition challenging the same appointment is also pending in the HC. Now both the petitions would come up for hearing on April 4.
 
 
