CHANDIGARH: Political parties are set to get into poll mode yet again with the   deciding to hold the Shahkot assembly byelection, necessitated by the demise of Akali legislator Ajit Singh Kohar, on May 28. As per the scheduled announced on Thursday, the result will be announced on May 31.
 
  
 
 Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has already announced Naib Singh Kohar, son of late ex-minister Kohar, as the official candidate for the bypoll. Shahkot is a new assembly constituency and both elections in 2012 and 2017 were won by Kohar.
 
 On the other hand, the byelection is being seen by some senior Congress leaders as an opportunity to make a comeback in the assembly. Former chief minister Rajinder Kaur Bhattal and former minister Lal Singh have said that they are ready to take the plunge, if the party leadership so desires.
 
 “The party has appointed me the chairman of the local mandi board and my son (Rajinder Singh) represents Samana in the assembly. I am pretty satisfied. But if the party so desires, I will contest the election. The area has a sizeable chunk of vote of my community and the voters would repose faith in me,” Lal told TOI. He could not contest the last election under the ‘one-family, one-ticket’ rule of the party.
 
 Bhattal too said that the decision to field her was up to the party and if she was asked to contest, she would do it. “It has to be a decision of the party leadership and I have not thought about it yet,” said Bhattal, who lost the last assembly election from Lehra Gaga to former finance minister and Akali leader Parminder Singh Dhindsa.
 
 Other hopefuls inlcuding Hardev Singh, a confidant of former minister Rana Gurjit Singh, are also trying for the ticket. Hardev was the runner up in the last election. Former MLA Jagbir Brar and Congress spokesperson Dr Navjot Dahiya could also be in the race.
 
 Meanwhile, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has also begun the exercise to identify a candidate for the byelection. Dr Balbir Singh, co-president of the state unit said, “We will contest the election to win. The name of the candidate will be finalised in a week’s time by a committee set up to shortlist probable names,” he said.
 
 Asked about AAP leader Amarjit Thind switching to Akalis recently, Balbir said it had turned out to be a blessing in disguise as a large number of local volunteers were not happy with his functioning. “After his exit, the local unit is working with renewed vigour,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, a spokesperson of office of chief electoral officer Punjab said that notification will be issued on May 3 and last date of submission of nomination Papers will be May 10. He said that scrutiny of papers will be done on May 11, and last for the withdrawal of the nomination papers is May 14.
 
 He said with the announcement of byelection for Shahkot Vidhan Sabha constituency model code of conduct is enforced in Jalandhar district with immediate effect. 
 
 
