LUCKNOW: Giving the mantra behind the historic victory in the   and   bypolls,   national president   said he had finally found the glue to bring together people. 

 "We finally found the glue that we lacked in the 2014 and 2017 elections,"   said in an exclusive interview to TOI hours after SP won the two seats.
 
 "We now have a narrative. Social engineering and demographic understanding worked for us," said the SP chief, adding that the victory was a result of defeating the BJP at its own game.
 
 "We learnt this narrative from the BJP. I am a footballer. We beat them in their game," he said. Akhilesh described the 54-minute-long historic meeting with BSP supremo   at her residence late on Wednesday evening as a courtesy call. "I thanked her. She showed me a special photo gallery in her house which has portraits of Dalit leaders and said she drew her inspiration from them," Akhilesh said.
 
  Akhilesh took on the BJP claiming that the party has failed to live up to the promises have made before coming to power like loan waiver to farmers and employment to youth. "For instance, they claim to have checked copying in Board exams but they did nothing while allotting examination centres which are known to be notorious. They went after the poor, the Dalits and Muslim youths who dropped out and could never muster the courage to appear for the exams," he said. 
 
 Earlier, addressing a press conference Akhilesh thanked Mayawati and described the bypoll results as the victory of his agenda of social justice. 
 
 "The election results are a political statement that people of two constituencies have sent out. They are angry with the government in the state and the Centre and everybody will see that anger spill out in the 2019 elections," Akhilesh said.
 
 Taking a jibe at UP CM  's recent statement in the state assembly that he was a Hindu and hence will not celebrate Eid, the SP chief said it was the first time in ever that a CM had made such a statement on the floor of the house. "Not only this, the CM went to say that encounters will continue and then he described the SP-BSP tie-up as getting together of a "saanp" (snake) and "chachunder" (rodent) ...," he said.
 
 
