KOLKATA: A   was discovered on Sunday with the body of her dead sister in a flat they shared at a   near Ruby Island.

 It is being suspected that Rekha Basak, the eldest of three sisters, has some sort of mental instability. It appears Putul, the middle sister, passed away in the early hours of Sunday itself due to malnourishment, caused by poverty. The youngest sister, Kajal, had died similarly two years ago.
 
 The case has echoes of the infamous Robinson Street incident of 2015, where Partha De was found living with the remains of his dead sister for six months, and the Paikpara incident last year, where a man was found living with the body of his mother for six days.
 
 Neighbours at   said the sisters’ parents had died seven years ago. Since then, the three sisters had been living in the flat. Since Kajal’s death two years ago, Putul and Rekha shared the flat. “The sisters never used to interact with anyone,” said resident Dilip Rakshit.
 
 That Putul had died was discovered at 1.30pm on Sunday. “For some time now, I had been giving them some food every day,” said Sima Tiwari, who stays on the second floor. “On Sunday, when I went to give them food as usual, nobody responded. After some time, Rekha opened the door and said her sister was not moving,” Tiwari said.
 
 The housing cooperative society was alerted and they, in turn, informed the cops. Officers from Anandapur police station recovered Putul’s body and took Rekha to the police station around 4pm for questioning. Putul’s body has been sent for post-mortem.
 
 “The body has not decomposed, and it appears Putul died in the early hours of Sunday itself. The exact time of death, of course, will be ascertained after the final autopsy report,” said Rupesh Kumar, DC (East division). “Rekha has been taken to a hospital for treatment,” he added.
 
 Neighbours said they had sent a letter to the local councillor in January, and had even approached the cops, asking them to see if the two sisters could be sent to a hospital or a shelter.
 
