MANIPAL: Department of Hotel Management,  , Bengaluru were declared the overall champions and Culinary Academy of India, Hyderabad were runners-up in the ‘WGSHA Quest 2018’, the two-day annual national-level inter-collegiate Hoteliering and Culinary competitions organized by Welcomgroup Graduate School of Hotel Administration, Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal which concluded here, on Thursday. 

 WGSHA Quest is platform for students from hotel management institutions across the country to showcase their skills, talents, aptitude and dexterity. The participants from 17 colleges experienced real life scenarios of hotel management operations and the winners proved to be the best in taking on these challenges.
 
 Parvadhavardhini Gopalakrishnan, principal, WGSHA, while inaugurating the function, urged the contesting teams to have fun and cherish the competitions rather than worrying for the results. ‘The competitions are becoming bigger and better with each passing year,” said Chef Thiru, vice principal of WGSHA.
 
 A number of competitions were held. Restaurant Service Skills-- was won by Christ University, Bengaluru emerged as winners and Culinary Academy of India, Hyderabad were the runners-up. In Gourmet Creation, the mystery box culinary competition, the team from The Lalit Suri Hospitality School, Haryana were the winners and Department of Hotel Management, Christ University, Bengaluru were the runners-up.
 
 Christ University won ‘Painted Platters’ and the runners-up were The Lalit Suri Hospitality School, Haryana. In Mithaas, the Indian dessert competition, Indian Institute of Hotel Management, Hyderabad were the winners and Institute of Hotel Management, Gurdaspur were the runners-up. Globe Trotter (Film Your Moment) which had innovation and creativity in the art of film making was won by Culinary Academy of India, Hyderabad and Institute of Hotel Management, Gurdaspur were the runners-up
 
 Wow at every moment of truth was won by Department of Hotel Management, PES University, Bengaluru and Culinary Academy of India, Hyderabad were runners-up. Trinity College, Hyderabad were declared winners and   Management, Lakkidi, Wayanad were the runners-up in ‘Floral Flourish’. Jeu-concours, the hospitality quiz competition was won by Department of Hotel Management, Christ University, Bengaluru and Culinary Academy of India, Hyderabad were the runners-up.
 
 In ‘Sherlock it out’, the winners were The Lalit Suri Hospitality School, Haryana and Institute of Hotel Management, Gurdaspur stood runners up in the event. Hotelier’s got talent was won by Culinary Academy of India, Hyderabad won the competition and The Lalit Suri Hospitality School, Haryana stood second. Food-o-graphy, title went to International Institute of Hotel Management, Bengaluru and Pioneer Institute of Hotel Management, Hyderabad were the runners-up.
 
