Ludhiana: Unprepared for such a disaster, the Ludhiana   struggled hard when 34 persons, who were seriously injured in the cylinder blast at Giaspura, were brought for treatment on Thursday morning.

 Caught in a tight spot, the hospital authorities decided to convert the dengue and swine flu ward into an intensive care unit (ICU).
 
 The burns unit of the hospital has only two surgery wards and one care unit. With the sudden inflow of patients, surgery units were full within minutes. Not only this, the hospital had to call additional staff to cater to every injured.
 
 Amid all the chaos, the doctors forgot to wear masks and take off shoes while treating the patients. Once the hospital authorities noticed the presence of mediapersons, they started directing nurses and other staff to take preventive measures.
 
 The authorities did not allow media to enter the hospital’s premises, saying that patients were vulnerable to catching infections. Interestingly, the officials did not stop people who came with mayor Balkar Sandhu to meet the injured.
 
 MLA Surinder Dawar, MLA Balwinder Bains, senior deputy mayor Sham Sunder Malhotra and BJP district president Ravinder Arora too visited the hospital.
 
 Later, the hospital referred all the cases to different hospitals. “The hospital could only give treatment up to secondary level. The patients who have received serious burns need to be shifted to hospitals which could provide tertiary care. We are observing the patients. We might refer more serious cases to Christian Medical College & Hospital,” said Dr Geeta, a senior medical officer at the hospital.
 
 Questions over unavailability of ambulances
 
 The city residents, who reached the hospital along with the family members of the victims, alleged that not even a single ambulance in the entire city was available for help, and the injured were rushed to the hospital in a mini tempo (chota hathi) and police vehicles. “An injured was brought here on a PCR bike,” the residents alleged. The ambulances, however, shifted the patients from the civil hospital to CMCH and ESI hospital.
 
 
