NEW DELHI:   has started the process of setting up a four-member   (PCA) to redress grievances regarding any harassment, abuse, extortion, unlawful detention or arrest by  . PCA will finish hearing a complaint within 60 days and recommend necessary actions to the  .

 The government has recently invited applications to fill up three posts of the members of PCA while the chairman of the authority will be chosen from a panel of names proposed by the chief justice of the Delhi high court. The other members will be a retired IAS officer, a former IPS officer and a person of repute from the civil society.
 
 PCA is being formed following the directions of the  . The lieutenant governor of Delhi will appoint its chairperson and the other members.
 
 The authority will inquire into the allegations of serious misconduct against police personnel either suo-motu or on the basis of a complaint. “It will inquire into acts of omissions and commissions by a police officer that leads to death in police custody, rape or attempt to rape in police custody, arrest or detention without due process of law, extortion, house/land grabbing or any other incident involving any abuse of authority,” said an official.
 
 Currently, many such cases are referred to Public Grievances Commission. Once PCA is formed, all pending cases regarding the abuse of authority by cops will be transferred to the authority, said a source. PCA will also inquire into complaints of any police misconduct forwarded to it by the LG or the chief secretary of the Delhi government.
 
 The authority will, however, not entertain any case that is already under consideration by any court,   (NHRC) or any other statutory body.
 
 “The process of the formation of PCA is likely to be completed soon,” said a senior official in the Delhi government’s home department. The authority will have a wide range of power, which it will use to make the police respect human rights and more accountable to the people, said a source. It can also ensure that cops strictly follow the laid-down rules during the exercise of their power.
 
 
