LUCKNOW: Determined to dispel the perception of Dalit alienation, the ruling   is now gearing up to power its way into Dalit homes by organizing 15-day free electricity connection distribution camps in close to 3,500 Dalit-dominated villages in   from April 14, the birth anniversary of Baba Saheb BR Ambedkar.

 The state government has set a target of providing electricity connections to around 4 lakh Dalit families through these camps under Centre’s flagship Saubhagya scheme.
 
 A final blue print of the ambitious drive that aims to assuage Dalits is proposed to be ready by Tuesday for being put forth at a review meeting chaired by state energy minister  .
 
 “The idea is to remove darkness from the lives of the oppressed class, who could not get electricity connections during previous SP and BSP regimes. The state government aims to cover at least 75 lakh families in the current financial year,” Sharma said, while speaking to TOI on Sunday.
 
 He said that of the 34 lakh new electricity connections given in the last financial year, nearly 11lakh were for Dalits and those in BPL category.
 
 
 In a follow-up action, the government will set up special teams headed by   chief engineers to do a reality check of the connections given to poor.
 
 
 BJP’s increased emphasis on electricity connection camps from   comes days after four BJP Dalit MPs spoke against the government and wrote to PM   over atrocities on Dalits and discrimination with them.
 
 
 BJP sources said that the party will ask its grass root workers to disseminate information about Saubhagya scheme and   government’s policies to voters at booth level.
 
 
 BJP state general secretary   said that the booth-level outreach would help develop a connect with voters and assess public mood.
 
 
 Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha, the youth wing of BJP, has also been asked to draft a seven-month programme — from April 14 (Ambedkar’s birth anniversary) to December 6 (Dalit icon’s death anniversary) — to bring together youths, cutting across castes from booth to division level, and organise community lunches.
 
 
 BJP also plans to have at least four Dalit youths in the 10-member team at every booth for 2019 Lok Sabha elections.
 
