Ever since   Times revealed that  , a   instructor from the city, has discovered a shipwreck in the calm waters of the Bay of Bengal, the ship-wreck has been a major topic of discussion among scuba divers. The ship, with a mysterious urban legend behind it, has been the source of intrigue for many; not just in Visakhapatnam, but also the diving community across the globe. Recently, a scuba diving firm based out of the UK made a video, talking about the mysterious ship-wreck and what it could mean for the tourism of   and India. Word spread to the rest of the country and soon, divers from all over India and even France made their way to Visakhapatnam, with their diving equipment in tow, to check out this mysterious wreck. And they all came back to claim that “the experience has been mindblowing”. 

  “I heard that Balaram had discovered a wreck some time ago, so I decided to come down and see what the fuss was all about. But what I found here is something I didn’t expect; something really, really special. I have about 22 dives under my belt, but this is my first dive around a  , and it was truly fascinating. The fish life and visibility here are on par with the Andamans. The water at the site is so crystal clear; we could even see the marine life from the surface. There’s a lot of debris, but mapping it and trying to find its origins should be fun. Every dive is different, but it’s really surprising that this wreck is here, seemingly out of nowhere, in such shallow waters,” says Pruthviraj, a diver from Bengaluru
 
  Another Bengaluru-based diver, Vivek, was so thrilled with what he found that he even measured the wreck. “Yes, I was so excited to see the wreck that I decided to take measurements of it. It is about 150 metres in length, and 45 metres in breadth, but these are just the approximate hull dimensions. The actual ship itself could have been bigger. Condition-wise, the wreck site is truly unbelievable. I have never seen anything like this in terms of visibility except for the Andamans. The wreck is close to the shore and there are hardly any currents when we dive. For a beginner, to explore this wreck would be pure heaven. The marine life at the wreck was so beautiful, I can’t even put it in words. It’s incredible this spot exists in the middle of nowhere. I even saw a lot of baby corals at the site that are around two to three years old. This wreck is a real goldmine for Visakhapatnam because it’s unique that a wreck would be in such shallow waters. Most of them are really deep,” says Vivek, who is a seasoned diver with over a 1000 dives to his credit in India, Afganistan, Malaysia, Singapore, Fiji, New Zealand and more. 
 
  Wreck diving is something any diver looks forward to, but even seasoned divers, who’ve been to wreck sites abroad are left sepllbound by this. “It’s curious because no one seems to know the exact history of this wreck. But the best part is that the wreck is not too deep and there is sufficient place to swim around. I have wreck dived in Bali and France before, but this wreck is a huge one. I would love to come back and explore if there are more wrecks around here,” says Anthony, from France.
 
  “This discovery could mean an influx of international tourists down to the bay. This entire belt could turn into a scuba diving destination. In Sri Lanka, and the Red Sea, entire cities have been built up due to diving, so that’s a hopeful sign. This is not just a good opportunity for tourism, but it also gives fishermen a chance to switch to sustainable tourism. Instead of fishing, they can show tourists fish in their natural environs. I think I’ll even cancel my flight and stay back because the marine life here is amazing — it’s really healthy. I have over 2500 dives and 15 years of experience all over the world and I’m India is second disabled diving instructor. I want to get my wheelchair students down here so they can experience it,” says an amazed Kshitij, from Pune
 
  Meanwhile, Balaram Naidu, the man who discovered the wreck, is both thrilled and hopeful that it can help draw tourists to the city, and promote scuba diving. “Vizag is a growing city and when it comes to tourism, we don’t have one such activity that could attract international tourists to the city. But with the discovery of this wreck, scuba diving could be the sport to do so. The government needs to recognise this and help promote the city as a scuba destination,” says Naidu. 
 
  If the fact that he found one shipwreck is exciting enough, there’s more, as Balaram Naidu reveals that he has found another shipwreck too, a few meters away from this one. The second shipwreck even houses a school of Goliath grouper fishes, he reveals. However, unlike the first wreck, this one is located approximately 23 meters into the sea, making it accessible only to advanced divers. “The key step right now is to preserve these shipwrecks and the eco-system around them,” he adds. 
 
