VISAKHAPATNAM: The   government seems intent on expediting the proposed 900-acre satellite   near   on the outskirts of Visakhapatnam. A high-level meeting, chaired by the principal secretary of municipal administration and urban development department Karikal Valaven, in the presence of the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation ( ),   (Vuda) and district administration officials, on Friday night in Visakhapatnam, has decided to advance the negotiations with the assignees of the land.

 However, contrary to the earlier proposals of a dedicated housing township, the government has now decided to go for mixed-use development that blends housing, commercial space, a 150-acre sports complex, etc. In all, the township will get 25,000 housing units in a phased manner. 
 
 According to sources, the 900-acre land is located in the intersection of five villages of three mandals in the district. These include   in Gajuwaka mandal, Nanginarapadu and Gangavaram in Sabbavaram mandal and Pedamushidivada and E-Marripalem in Parawada mandal. “While 199.17 acres of land is lying vacant, 700.10 acres of land is in the possession of private parties.
 
 Recently Pendurthi MLA B Satyanarayana Murthy conducted a meeting with the landowners about the 900-acre satellite township  . The assignees have demanded land-pooling scheme and compensation for the trees and plants attached to the land. Officials now have to hammer out an agreement with regards to the compensation for the 700 acre land and other issues. 
 
 A proposal has also been made to develop housing projects on 166-acre land at two different places near   area. Officials estimate that 1.25 lakh housing units need to be developed for the homeless people in Visakhapatnam city. There are two land parcels available for housing near Kommadi area, including 111 acres in Kommadi and 55 acres in Paradesipalem. A discussion on developing the housing project near Kommadi also took place during the meeting,” the source reveales.
 
 Vuda may have to shoulder the responsibility of developing these townships after the revenue officials alienate the land to Vuda.
 
 The state government has been mulling developing satellite townships in Visakhapatnam city for a long time that can be a catalyst to propel the growth story of the city. However, it has not made any headway due to land issues. Observers are also of the opinion that the satellite townships in the outskirts are the need of the hours to expand the city on all sides, instead of further congesting the core city. The government also wants to complete the housing projects as early as possible.
 
 
