JAIPUR: With its eyes clearly set on upcoming Assembly elections, the   government has come out with a policy to allot residential plots to Pakistani Hindu migrants who get the Indian citizenship. 

 As per the provision, the plots will be allotted to the migrants in the same district in which they will be given the Indian citizenship.
 
 If a migrant family wants the plot to be allotted in a different district, the head of the family will have to submit the proof of staying there for the last two years. A senior official from the department of urban development and housing said, "The allotment of the land will be made only once to the migrated family. The land will be allotted only to the head of the family."
 
 While the UDH officials refused to divulge the estimated number of plots they will allot to the  , Rajasthan home minister   said 5,100 migrants in Rajasthan are likely to be granted Indian citizenship soon. According to the minister, verification of these cases had been completed and citizenship would be granted after receiving the   report.
 
 "Some of these migrants have already been given the Indian citizenship. For example, about 70 Pakistani migrants have been given citizenship in Jaipur district alone. The heads of families can apply for a plot now," a senior UDH official said.
 
 The number Pakistani migrants in Rajasthan, however, is estimated to be 20,000-25,000, which is highest in the country. The district collectors have the power to grant citizenship to Pakistani refugees living in their jurisdiction.
 
 According to UDH officials, the department has framed a time-bound process to allot plots to these migrants. Once the migrant applies, the secretary of the local body or development authority will sought a verification report of the applicant and family members from the magistrate who issued them the Indian citizenship.
 
 The district collector will have to submit the verification report within 15 days to the concerned local body or development authority. The UDH department will have to complete the allotment formalities within a month of re ceiving the verification report.
 
 The size of the plots to be allotted to Pakistani migrants will not be bigger than 100 square meters. While the plots of the size of up to 60sqm will be allotted at 25% of their reserve price, plots of size between 60sqm and 90sqm will be allotted at 50% of the reserve price.
 
 
