AHMEDABAD: A year before   heads for the Lok Sabha elections, the state government has effected a reshuffle in the babudom by transferring 67 IAS officers posted as collectors, DDOs, and deputy municipal commissioners across the state.

 Collectors of all four important districts have been transferred. Ahmedabad gets a new collector in Vikrant Pandey, who was previously Rajkot’s collector.
 The current collector, Avantika Singh, has now been posted as the MD of Gujarat Skill Development Mission. Dr Dhavalkumar Patel is the new Surat collector; he will take over from M S Patel, who has been elevated to the post of commissioner of municipalities in Gandhinagar. Rajkot gets a new collector, Dr R B Gupta, who was previously Junagadh’s collector.
 
  
 Vadodara collector Ponugurnatla Bharathi is being appointed as new state project director, Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan. She will hand over charge to Shalini Agrawal, who was collector of Arvalli. The new Bhanagar municipal commissioner is M A Gandhi who takes over from M R Kothari who is now the director, relief. S L Amrani has been appointed as the new municipal commissioner of Gandhinagar, replacing D N Modi, now the DDO of Kheda. Ahmedabad deputy municipal commissioner   has been transferred as DDO of   and Kuldeep Arya has been appointed in his place. The transfers reveals that the BJP-led government has focused on presenting the image of overhauling municipalities and key social sectors including employment and education. A senior general administration department official told TOI: “For the first time, the post of director of municipalities has been created and six regional directors have been appointed.” These regional directors will have to serve for two years.
 
 Chief secretary J N Singh told TOI, “The transfers have focused on the urban sector. It will be mandatory for regular recruits to serve as deputy municipal commissioners in bigger municipal corporations or as regional urban commissioners (supervising 25 to 30 municipalities) before they are considered for transfer as collectors.”
 
 Singh went on to say: “This is being done for the first time after the government realized that municipalities are not getting necessary attention.”
 
 
 
