GURUGRAM: A spate of burglaries in the upscale DLF-3 area in the past one month has left the residents feeling very insecure. The latest crime took place at the local Sai temple in the early hours of Monday when the   walked away with donation boxes. Residents said this was the second theft at the   in a span of just 10 days.

 Some   residents reached out to TOI, expressing their fears over the frequency of crimes in the area. “We are very scared. There’s a lack of proper security in the area,” said Satyapal, a resident.
 
 Nutan Kumar Mishra, the priest at Sai temple, said four thieves broke into the temple around 2.30 am. “The criminals took away two iron donation boxes and emptied two wooden ones. A similar crime took place on February 9. We are surprised,” he said.
 
 Mishra said the temple management has showed the CCTV footage of the crime to police as well. “The footage clearly shows four young men fleeing with the donation boxes in their vehicles. Last time, the perpetrators were one man and one woman. This time around, they left the cutter that they probably used to cut the wire mesh to enter into the temple premises,” he said.
 
 A number of residents in this area are retired bureaucrats and military officials. And they say these are not the only crimes that took place in DLF-3 in the recent past. “In V Block, some houses were burgled last month. A two-wheeler was also stolen from the same block last month,” said a retired IAS officer who lives in the area.
 
 “DLF has its own security but it’s lax. The whole area, including Nathupur village, has merely one police post. We want police to ramp up surveillance in the area,” said a retired military official.
 
 When contacted, DLF officials refused to comment.
 
 However, police said a probe “is underway” into the theft at the temple. “We will keep the public updated as soon as we have any lead. As for the overall security of the area, we are increasing the patrolling,” said Gaurav Phogat, SHO of DLF-2 police station. 
 
 
