LUDHIANA: Raising concern over alleged irregularities in the ward delimitation process, two city-based   activists have sent a legal notice to the state election commission, urging it to call them for hearing over their objections which were not redressed by the local bodies department.

  and Lt Col   (retd), who sent the notice, said the only major issue is the non-revelation of the ward-wise population at the time of seeking public objections by the local bodies department and   officials.
 
 They claimed that a public notice in different newspapers regarding issuance of notification for delimitation of wards in the city for the proposed MC polls in January-February, 2018, was published and people were informed that the city is being divided in 95 wards as against existing 75 wards. They said public objections were also called and they also filed objections in the MC office on December 28 2017.
 
 They said their main objection was regarding disparity in population of the newly carved out wards as approximate population in the wards was not disclosed despite several requests made to the officials of MC.
 
 They said neither the draft notification nor the map had population details of wards. They said that most of the objections were disposed of unheard which is gross violation of law and natural justice. They alleged that ward delimitation has been done by the ruling party leaders to meet their selfish means, because population is the only base of ward delimitation and here this basic rule has been flouted.
 
 They said that they are not interested in contesting the MC polls from any ward of the city and the only aim is to make efforts to save the democratic structure of Indian republic. They said through this legal notice, they have demanded the election commission to give them a personal hearing and their objections should be redressed by publicizing the population wise detail of each ward before further action, else they shall be constrained to resort to legal action under law, solely at their cost and responsibility. 
 
 
