PATNA: The state government admitted on Monday that the state capital enjoyed ‘good air quality’ only on two days in 2017 and several steps were being taken to check pollution.

 Giving the data of total 345 days in 2017, in reply to a call attention motion by CPI member Kedar Nath Pandey in the legislative council on rising air pollution in  , especially in Patna, deputy CM   admitted that 77 days had ‘satisfactory’ air quality, 92 ‘medium’, 53 ‘bad’, 85 ‘very bad’ and 36 days experienced ‘extremely bad air quality’.
 
 Modi, who also holds the environment and forest department portfolio, said the data of previous five years showed there was no increase in air pollution level and attributed the particulate matters as the reason behind bad air quality in Patna, especially during winter when carbon concentration increases in the lower level of atmosphere.
 
 Talking about the steps taken by the government, he said Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) has been strictly instructed not to burn solid waste and all construction sites have to be covered. “To curb vehicle pollution, transport department is checking the pollution under control (PuC) certificates given to the vehicles. Besides, the state government, along with the oil companies, is trying to provide a cleaner fuel option (CNG) to  ,” he said.
 
 Modi said two additional pollution monitoring centres have been proposed for better air quality monitoring in Patna. “Besides, in order to curb the pollution emitted by brick kilns, only those will be allowed to function after August 2018, which use cleaner technology for the production,” he said.
 
 While the first half of the day in the council passed off peacefully, members of opposition RJD walked out in the post-lunch session over rise in crime, especially on   in the state capital.
 
 Shouting anti-government slogans outside the council, RJD MLCs demanded immediate arrest of the criminals involved in the Alamganj and Sabjibagh murder cases.
 
 Earlier, deputy chairperson   announced   MLC Madan Mohan Jha as the party leader in the Upper House. A proposal in this regard was made by senior Congress leader Sadanand Singh and state Congress acting president Kaukab Quadri.
 
 
