Madurai/ Tirunelveli: The state government’s announcement of relief notwithstanding, many students who started off for Ernakulam on Friday and Saturday to write Sunday’s national eligibility-cum-entrance test (NEET) for MBBS admissions had a tough time. Some travelled on unreserved coaches standing most of the night while others who got into buses had a tough time finding their way to places like Aluva and Angamaly in Kochi where they have been allotted centres to write the exam. Thiagarajan, a parent, said that they had no option but to get on the unreserved compartment on a train to Ernakulam. “I wanted to ensure that my son got a seat and I chose to stand most of the Friday night. On arriving in Ernakulam junction, we were not able to find the help centres announced by the Kerala government, but people at the station told us the routes,”he said. Sundarajan, a school topper, has been nursing a dream to become a doctor because his mother is suffering from kidney ailments. He reached Aluva near Ernakulam and was told that his examination centre is another 15 kms away. ``We cannot afford to find a room in Aluva as I want to be at the examination centre on time. So, we will have to look for a room there or just stay outside the gates of the centre,’’ he told TOI over phone. Many other students from Madurai and other districts who reached Ernakulam on Saturday morning had a tough time finding a suitable accommodation as hotels were booked.  It was pointed out that there were 58 NEET examination centres spread across Ernakulam district of which more than 20 were in the rural areas. “The Kerala government has established help desks to guide us to examination centres but it turns out that some of the centres are more than 50 kms from the bus stand and railway station,” said Vignesh, a candidate from Vilathikulam. Some students said they would have to start from the place of stay at least three hours in advance to reach far-off rural centres. Linguistic barrier and availability of local transport on Sunday were matters of concern.  Some parents said that they found Kerala to be more concerned about the students than Tamil Nadu as people came forward to help them find the centres, showing them maps and directing them. ``On Friday, the Tamil Nadu government wasted our time saying it will help us with travel and that we could avail of Rs 1,000 towards it, but the CEO’s office was indifferent and asked us to approach the schools which were closed,’’ said the mother of a girl student. Some students tried to hail cab services but found that the fares from Madurai to Ernakulam would go up to Rs 6,000 which was beyond their means. Kevin, a student, said he was nervous as his father had booked the bus at 9.30 p.m on Saturday from Madurai and he did not know if he would reach his destination on time as the bus would reach Ernakulam only at 6 a.m on Sunday. The Madurai district administration had specified that only 14 students from the district had been given centres outside Tamil Nadu. However, it was pointed out that there were more than four coaching centres, each having more than 15 students travelling to Kerala.  “Most rural girl students have not been out of town. When it is a girl the mother and father has to accompany them. We could not leave behind our younger daughter and have come here as a family,” lamented Prabha, a photographer from Kovilpatti who expects he would have to shell out Rs 5,000 to Rs 6,000 for his family’s trip.