Vadodara: When visitors walk through the book stalls at the Akhil Bhartiya Marathi Sahitya Sammelan at D N Hall Ground in M S University, there is one stall where most stop by. A young woman sitting on wheelchair with a book in their hand attracts their attention. She just speaks a few words before her mother intervenes and explains about her daughter. 

 Twenty-six-year-old Manali, a resident of Thane in Mumbai, has undergone a dozen surgeries and has below average IQ. But she has won 52 awards including one from former President APJ Abdul Kalam for her creative skills. Her mother Smita Kulkarni has written a book on her ‘special child’ life and the struggles she and her husband faced to bring her up. And it is being picked up by many visitors. 
 
 “We are glad that so many people now don’t just know about our daughter’s achievements but their way of looking at disabled people too changed after reading the book. Manali was studying in normal school till third standard but then we had shift her to a special school after her IQ test results,” Smita told TOI. Smita and her husband Sandeep, who works with a private firm, then decided to train their daughter in different skills. 
 
 Manali was born with congenital spina disease ‘Spina Bifida’ and doctors told them that she would never walk again. “She couldn’t study or learn much at the normal school. We worked hard on her and diverted all our energies to ensure that she learns various skills. She now teaches paintings and making artworks to students. She can also recite Bhagwad Geeta,” Sandeep said. 
 
 Seeing her daughter achieve so much, Smita decided to write a book ‘Wheel Power’ to inspire children with physical disabilities and their parents. 
 
 Manali won the National Award for the Best Creative Child with Disabilities in 2006 apart from several other awards. “My memorable moment was to meet former President APJ Abdul Kalam,” Manali said. “All the amount we get from sale of the book goes to Manali’s account. She is the richest person in our family and an inspiration for people who don’t think disability is a hurdle,” Sandeep added.
 
 
