LUCKNOW: By its move to recommend shifting of 17 most backward castes to the scheduled caste fold, the BJP has played a big gamble in election year. While it stands to gain if it manages get the the Centre's nod for extending SC category benefits in government jobs and admission to higher education institutions to these castes, it is also running the risk of facing their wrath if fails to do so. 

 The inclusion of the 17 MBCs has been a contentious issue in UP since 1995 and on the eve of the every major election this is raised. Similar recommendations have been sent at least four times in the past - by   government in 1995 and 2004, BSP government in 2008 and   government in 2013. But on all past occasions, there were 'unfriendly' governments at the Centre, hence the proposals were shot down. 
 
 But, this time there is a BJP government both in the state and at the Centre. "This time, the government is sending the proposal and the one which has to approve it are of the same party. So, Yogi government won't have the excuse of not being supported by an opposition government,"says a political analysts, "hence its responsibility increases manifolds."
 
 The SP government first came with the proposal. When Mulayam recommended shifting of 17 MBCs - comprising such influential castes at Rajbhar, Kewat, Nishad, Prajapati, Mallah, Kahar and   - in 2004, the inherent thought was that the move would keep both OBCs and these 17 MBCs in a good humour. "SP had identified the benefits of the move as the share of OBCs within 27% quota would have increased after exclusion of these 17 MBCs; on the other hand the 17 MBCs would have got more opportunities as SCs," says an observer. 
 
 Mayawati, however, first opposed it as it would have reduced her Dalit voters' share in 22.5% quotas earmarked for Dalits. But, later her party also came in support of the move with a rider that after inclusion of these castes, SCs' overall quota should be increased from the existing 21% to 24%. "Unlike a general impression that the BSP had opposed it, we wanted its implementation with the condition that it would be done by expanding the quota limit for scheduled castes," explained a senior BSP leader.
 
 While it was a clever move by the SP, which is largely an OBC-dominated political outfit, not only to placate its vote bank but also to hit the Dalit vote base of then arch-rival BSP, nothing concrete came out. These attempts were seen as political posturing as both the SP and BSP governments said they were not supported by the Centre - in 1995, it was   government while in 2004, 2008 and 2013 UPA government was at the helm. However, this time the onus would be on Yogi government to deliver on this issue, as it won't be able to take resort to this excuse.
 
 
