NEW DELHI: A special court on Friday extended the   remand of   by three days after the agency submitted that during the raids in the last couple of days, it has found "incriminating" evidence that allegedly link Karti with Advantage Strategic Consulting Private Limited, alleged to be the conduit for the bribe money in the   -- a claim denied by Karti. 

 The court also allowed CBI to confront Karti with his chartered accountant S Bhaskararaman following the agency's plea. A similar application seeking production of former directior of INX Media -Indrani and Peter Mukerjea- was made, but not pressed by the agency. 
 
 Special judge Sunil Rana extended Karti’s CBI custody after the agency claimed it had recovered some incriminating documents and CD from the Chennai office of Advantage Strategic Pvt Ltd., a company linked to him. 
 
 Additional Solicitor General Tushar Mehta and advocate V K Sharma, appearing for CBI, submitted before the court a "list of documents" it had seized during its raids on March 7 and 8. "Perusal of the said list shows that documents seized/recovered during the said search either belong to the accused Karti Chidamabaram or his family members, meaning thereby, that the said documents are required to be confronted with the accused," said the court order, referring to the ASG's submission.
 
 CBI has alleged that INX Media paid money to Advantage Strategic Consulting Private Limited around the same time it allegedly received favours from the finance ministry. "Recovered material is unimpeachable and he won’t be able to deny the link with the company," Mehta submitted even as Karit's parents Nalini and P Chidambaram watched the proceedings. 
 
 Pressing for six days’ remand, Mehta said CBI's raid at 2/33, Nageshwar Road, Nungambakkam, Chennai on March 7 and 8 resulted in seizure of "voluminous" documents that have a "direct bearing" on the case. "We found that the address was kept completely hidden. Till now he (Karti) was saying I have nothing to do with Advantage, now I believe he will have to come out with the truth," the ASG submitted. 
 
 Mehta also alleged "destruction of evidence" by "burning of paper" related to the case.
 
 CBI’s claim was refuted by Karti's counsel. Senior counsel Mohit Mathur and Dayan Krishnan, led by  , argued that the "so-called" new fact or the address that the agency claims to have stumbled upon had already been informed in a letter on July 17, 2017. "It is very unfortunate that CBI is taking remand with driblets," Singhvi said. He also placed on record a printout showing "company master data" of Advantage which he took out from Google and showed the company's address. The mobile phone, with the searched address, was shown to Justice Rana. 
 
 The defence lawyers said during the last nine days in CBI custody, Karti was harassed. "On 6th March, my client was in a particular room and the next day for some unexplained mysterious reason he was moved to another room with four guards who live in the same room. The guards played cards and kept the lights on through the night. He was then interrogated till 2.30am. On 7 March, they woke him up at 6am and asked him the same set of questions. His BP shot up and it was 150/100. The doctor's report has recorded all of it. Do you really need to burn the midnight oil?" asked Singhvi.
 
 
