PANAJI: Even as the taxi operators in the state stayed defiant and gave a call for an “indefinite   till their demands are met, transport minister Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar said that the government would seriously consider allowing app-based taxi services to ply in Goa. “The government will take a decision on Monday whether to allow app-based taxi services in the state,” he told STOI on Saturday.

 Dhavalikar said Ola and Uber had applied for licences to start the services in the state, but he had turned it down to support local taxi operators. He said that chief minister Manohar  , too, had vetted his decision.
 
 He said the government has helped tourist taxi operators in many ways including third-party insurance — where the driver is covered in case of accidents. There’s also a scheme, he said, for tourist taxi owners who want to replace their vehicle after 10 years. “Taxi owners get around Rs 2 lakh under the scheme to replace their vehicle,” he said.
 
 The transport minister gave an ultimatum to taxi owners to resume work at the government departments else their contract would be terminated. Dhavalikar said that some departments like the electricity department and PWD have already started taking action against taxi operators.
 
 Dhavalikar maintained that the taxi strike is illegal and that the state government has already invoked the Essential Services Maintenance Act (ESMA) across the state.
 
 Despite Dhavalikar’s warning, the taxi operators, who stayed off the roads for the second day on Saturday, said they would continue their protest at Azad Maidan.
 
 “Let chief minister Manohar Parrikar come there and tell us whatever he has to say. Nilesh Cabral had gone to the airport to tell the black-and-white   to start operating. But we are all together. We are willing to sacrifice our income to ensure that the strike called yields results,” said general secretary,   Tourist Taxi Owners’ Association, Vinayak Nanoskar.
 
 The tourist taxi operators are striking, demanding an exemption from installing speed governors on their vehicles. After support from Goa Forward Party ministers and one from the BJP camp,   functionaries Digambar Kamat, Luizinho Faleiro, Shantaram Naik and Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco extended their support to the strike.
 
 They said they will meet the chief minister to discuss the taxi owners’ demand on Sunday at 12 noon.
 
 General secretary, All Goa Private Bus Owners’ Association, Sudip Tamankar, who had earlier said they would suspend their operations in solidarity with the taxi operators, said they will take a decision on Sunday.
 
 With an estimated 20,000 tourist taxis off the roads, Goa’s roads appeared to have turned into a freeway of sorts for movement of private vehicles. But, as the strike entered Day 2, tourists were seen riding triples on rented bikes across the state, some even visible going around with their luggage on the bike. Shutters were down on pre-paid taxi counters across railway stations and busstands.
 
 Commercial supervisor, Karmali railway station, Upendra Rao admitted that tourists may face inconvenience if the strike continues as many are expected to alight in Goa from trains expected to arrive on Saturday at 7.30pm, as Goa usually sees such a rush when the weekend begins.
 
 Some black-and-yellow taxis were reported to have operated at some railway stations early in the morning before the news of a continued strike trickled down to them. But the strike called was largely complete and did manage to restrict tourist movement to quite some extent.
 
 Auto rickshaws and private vehicles were seen offering their services in some parts of the North Goa beach belt, looking to make a fast buck out of the tourist taxi strike.
 
 The state government tried to do its best to fill in the gap through KTC buses deputed at railway stations and bus stands.
 
 
 
 
 Parrikar has shown he has the will to put things in order. Now is the time to act.
 
 Goa’s taxi operators are infamous the world over. From fleecing and cheating passengers, to not installing meters, to not going by the fare chart, Goa’s taxi operators are a law unto themselves. The high-handedness with which they have operated for so many years clearly shows the political patronage they have enjoyed. So, when the taxi operators decided to go on a strike against a Supreme Court order directing the installation of speed governors in vehicles and a high court ruling that has asked them to fix digital meters, they have proved they have scant respect for even the highest court of law. By continuing the strike, the taxi operators, who are used to threatening customers, are now trying to bully the government into accepting their unreasonable demands. It is credible that chief minister Manohar Parrikar has not bowed to their ridiculous pressure tactics and has stayed firm. But even as the chief minister stood firm, it was abhorrent on the part of three Goa Forward ministers—Vijay Sardesai, Jayesh Salgaonkar and Vinod Paleykar—who speak of ‘Goenkarponn’ at any given moment, along with deputy speaker Michael Lobo, crawling before these taxi operators for petty politics. It is this votebank politics that has been the bane of this beautiful state. The taxi operators never allowed app-based services to enter Goa and for a few votes, these politicians would prefer to inconvenience Goans and tourists rather than stand with the people and the government. What the state needs, besides a good public transport, is an app-based service that will break the taxi mafia in Goa. Parrikar has shown he has the will to set things in order and now is the time to act. This paper has always stood for the rights of citizens and against the strong-arm tactics of taxi operators, and will continue to do so. But what has been found lacking is the political will to handle the thuggery or to address the issues on merit. If Goa has to retain its brand as the sunshine state and continue to attract tourists, the government must take a tough stand and break this politician-taxi operator nexus.
 
