A chance conversation between a couple paved way for cadaver organ donation in Kolhapur and saved lives in Mumbai and Pune. 

 
 A 32-year-old man from Nigave village, on the outskirts of Kolhapur city, met with a road accident on April 30. A tempo hit the two-wheeler the man was riding, leaving him grievously injured. 
 
 When his health failed to improve and he slipped into  , doctors declared him brain dead. 
 
 They approached the family and asked them if they were willing to donate the man's organs. That was when his wife recalled a conversation, when her husband had expressed his wish to register for organ donation. The family agreed to donate the organs and the process began. "My husband will now live forever. I hope he will continue to bless me and our two children," his wife told TOI. 
 
 The heart, liver and kidneys of the man were harvested at the   and taken for transplant in Mumbai and Pune. 
 
 Over 150 traffic police created a 7.5-km   at 4pm to rush the heart from the hospital to Kolhapur airport within eight minutes. It usually takes about 25 minutes to half-an-hour to cover the same distance. The air ambulance from Fortis hospital had already arrived to carry the heart to Mumbai. 
 
 One kidney and the liver were taken to two different hospitals in Pune. With the help of the green corridor, the two   covered the nearly 250km distance in less than three hours. 
 
 The liver reached   in Baner at 7.30pm. The green corridor helped save the life of a 60-year-old patient suffering from end-stage liver disease. The transplant was performed by a team of surgeons headed by Sharan Narute, liver transplant surgeon at Jupiter Hospital. 
 
 One kidney was taken to Aditya Birla hospital in Chinchwad, where it arrived at 7.15pm. Both the organs had left Kolhapur at 4.30pm and 4.50pm respectively.
 
 One of the kidneys was transplanted in a patient admitted in Aster Aadhar hospital in Kolhapur. The hospital had roped in the experts from Bengaluru to carry out the operation. 
 
 
