ROURKELA: Women of different villages under   in   district staged road blockades at four different locations, including one at   on NH-143, on Monday, protesting against the alleged pollution by sponge  . 

 Due to the road blockade, movement of vehicles from   to outside and vice versa came to a grinding halt till the blockade was lifted at 4pm. The blockade was withdrawn after Bonei sub-collector Swadha Deb Singh announced that a meeting would be conducted by the district administration on March 23 to address the issue.
 
 According to a source, locals of different villages under Kendrikala gram panchayat have been raising their voice over rise in pollution by the sponge iron plants through petitions to district administration and other authorities for last three months. A month back, women had staged a protest in front of the Bonei sub-collector office, specifically alleging against agaist a sponge iron plant for creating pollution. Then Singh had visited the spot and served a closure notice on the plant. But, a few days later the company obtained a stay order from a local court and continued production.
 
 According to locals, there are 11 sponge iron plants under Kendrikala gram panchayat and all of these units have been emitting black smoke along with black dust. On Monday, women staged road blockade at Kendrikala Upper Pada, Uppar Bahal and Pandurisila apart from Dareikala. The locals demanded immediate action against polluting units. 
 
 "We have been drawing attention of different authorities for addressing the pollution issue, but all our petitions have been ignored so far," said Lalita Kissan, sarpanch of Kendrikala. "The black dust is settling everywhere, including farmlands, making lives miserable," said Saraswati Moharana, a local woman.
 
 Following the blockade, Bonei district administration intimated Sundargarh collector Vinit Bharadwaj. At 4pm, Singh reached the road blockade spots and announced that the collector has ordered for a meeting, where representatives of sponge iron plants and public, would discuss the issue and find out a solution. 
 
 "All the stakeholders, including pollution control board officials, would attend the meeting where an action plan would be drawn up to find out a solution to the issue," said Singh.
 
 Locals of Kuanrdmunda under the banner of Kuanrmunda Citizen Committee are on indefinite strike since Saturday, protesting against rise in pollution in their locality. As many as 15 sponge iron plants are operating in Kuanrmunda. 
 
 
 
