PANAJI: Three   transplant procedures are likely to take place at the transplant facility of   ( ) and hospital in the third week of January. In all three cases the recipients are male and the donors, their respective mothers. 

 With these three transplants, GMC will restart its kidney transplants facility which came to a halt in October 2017. 
 
 Until last year, 14 kidney transplant operations had been carried out successfully in GMC. In 12 cases, the recipients were male and the donors, female family member. In two cases, the recipients were female - one, a wife who received a kidney from a husband and another, a daughter who received a kidney from her father, said a nephrologist at GMC.
 
 The trend in Goa is no different from that in other parts of the country, that of female patients finding it more difficult to find a donor. “There will always be a mother, sister or wife willing to donate a kidney if a man in the family needs a transplant. However, women in need of kidney transplants do not have it that easy,” said a GMC doctor. There are cases where a male family member offers to donate his organ, but backs out in subsequent meetings, even after being counselled that a person can lead a healthy life on a single kidney.
 
 Then there is the issue of demand versus supply. In GMC alone, over 1,000 patients undergo dialysis of which, at least 150 qualify for a transplant, subject to availability of a kidney, a nephrologist said. “There is a huge gap between the demand and supply,” he said.
 
 Age is one of the most important criteria in kidney transplants. A patient must preferably be below the age of 60 years. Some relaxation in age could be made, provided other health parameters are sound, a doctor said. In donors too, age is an important consideration as is the health of the donor. He/she should not suffer from any kind of ailments such as hypertension, diabetes, cancer or any other life-threatening disease. Positive results of the tests undertaken to ascertain that the donor’s organ is a positive match for the recipients is also a must. 
 
 Kidney transplants in GMC are conducted jointly by the departments of urology and nephrology.
 
 
