BELAGAVI: Both   and   are against freedom of speech, said   (AIMIM) Asaduddin   here on Tuesday. He also urged the people keep both the parties away from power by strengthening the hands of regional parties.

 Owaisi, who has supported JD(S) in this assembly elections, addressed a rally in Belagavi on Tuesday. “Since a long time I wanted to come to Belagavi but the Congress government in Karnataka did not allow me. But you (Congress) can’t stop me forever. You will lose power after this election,” Owaisi said.
 
 The Hyderabad MP said Congress has opened the shop of secularism while BJP has opened a shop of nationalism. He dared Prime Minister Modi and AICC president Rahul Gandhi to debate for five minutes with him on the issue.
 
 He said BJP won 280 Lok Sabha seats in 2014 because of a weak Congress. “The Congress can’t defeat Modi but regional parties can. There is need for regional parties in the country for the welfare of SC/STs, minorities and all backward classes,” he said.
 
 Taking on chief minister Siddaramaiah, Owasi said, “Siddaramaiah speaks much about secularism but according to records of national crime bureau- over 1,000 communal riots took place in Karnataka in the past five years. Nine people were killed and 250 were injured in these incidents. There are 10,500 undertrials in jails of Karnataka and 5,500 of them are SC-STs, OBCs and minorities. Youths have lost their life in Congress regime,” he alleged.
 
 Owaisi questioned Congress why it was not bringing its former external affairs minister Salman Khurshid to Karnataka for campaigning, who recently made a statement that Congress’ hands are stained with Muslim blood. “Now people are understanding about Congress ideology,” he added.
 
 Owaisi expressed anger over the silence of Congress about the triple talaq issue, which he claimed to be unconstitutional as per Article 14 and 15 of the Constitution. He said Congress did not support him on the issue due to fear of losing votes of Muslim women.
 
 AIMIM state secratery Latifkhan Pathan, JD(S) candidates Shivanagouda Patil, Shankar Madalagi, Ashfaq Madaki and Pramod Patil were present.
 
 
