Trichy: Weeks after the Trichy Corporation inaugurated a beautification drive by placing flower pots on medians in the city, the pots placed on the median on Anna Nagar link road have been constantly targeted by miscreants. In the last three days, as many as 10 of these were found damaged by miscreants who were reported to be committing the crime in an inebriated state. The prevailing lack of surveillance on the stretch puts the the general public coming to the walking track situated along the road vulnerable to offences like chain-snatching. Corporation officials lamented that the absence of CCTV cameras on the stretch failed to deter or nab culprits responsible for damaging public property. The centre median on Anna Nagar link road was adorned with 230 flower pots. Though the public criticised the move, the civic body claimed that it would help in filtering high beam lights from vehicles approaching in the opposite direction.  Just a couple of weeks after the pots were placed, corporation sources said, four flower pots were whisked away by miscreants while around 10 pots on the stretch were damaged. “We suspect miscreants in an inebriated state to have targeted the flower pots. Since there are no CCTV cameras on MGR roundabout and Anna Nagar link road, using the lapse in vigil, miscreants are continuing their mischief,” an official with the Trichy Corporation said. The cost of each flower pot is around Rs 500. Besides the threat to public property, morning walkers on Anna Nagar link road expressed fear over threats from anti-social elements. “Anna Nagar link road is a straight stretch which enables two-wheeler riders to test the top speed of their vehicles. With hundreds of people visiting the stretch each day, it should have already come under CCTV surveillance,” said A Govindaraju, a frequent walker.  During the night, youths mostly on high-end two-wheelers are frequently spotted racing each other on the stretch. No major accident has been recorded so far. Corporation sources said that they are planning to take up the issue with the city police, while sources said that senior police officers recently visited the MGR roundabout and HPO signal to check the possibility of installing CCTV cameras.