KOLKATA: Five officials from   (AAI), including a senior executive from Kolkata airport, will visit   next month to study how the Danish airport manages to handle more than twice as many flights as Kolkata airport each hour.

 Kolkata airport has two parallel runways similar to Copenhagen Airport. But while the former currently handles 30 flights an hour with a maximum capability of 35 flights, Copenhagen manages 83 flights per hour.
 Following an invitation from AAI chairman  , a team from Copenhagen led by   had come down to Kolkata in January to study the operations here and suggest ways to improve efficiency. The team, along with AAI officials from Delhi and Kolkata, observed and took note of the bottlenecks and operational challenges.
 
 The AAI team, comprising joint general managers Manas Das from Kolkata and Vikas Bhalla from Delhi along with three officials from the headquarters representing planning, operations and communication, navigation & surveillance will now head to Copenhagen to see how flight operations are carried out there and discuss possibilities, including challenges. A report is expected to be prepared soon afterwards.
 
 Speaking to TOI, an official said the team would look at inter-arrival spacing. “In Kolkata, the minimum difference between two operations is 103 seconds while Copenhagen operates at a difference of only 43 seconds. How are they managing facilities and automation to achieve so?” the official said.
 
 Incidentally, Copenhagen uses an advanced version of the airport surveillance radar (ASR) that Kolkata uses, allowing the former to reduce separation between approaching flights to three nautical miles against a minimum separation of five nautical miles that can be achieved using the ASR installed in Kolkata.
 
 “Kolkata airport has enough space to expand the terminal and double passenger capacity. But that can be utilised only if the airport can accommodate more flights, particularly during busy hours. We hope a solution evolves from the visit to Copenhagen,” said regional executive director (east) KL Sharma.
 
 It was during the visit to Copenhagen airport last year that Mohapatra was struck by the similarities between the two airports and the sharp difference in the number of flights they handle
 
