KOLKATA: With both ISC and CBSE declaring the class XII results, the candidates who took the HS from schools affiliated under West Bengal Higher Secondary Council are feeling the heat.

 Sougata Basu, general secretary of West Bengal Government Teachers’ Association said, “The colleges which are in high demand will start giving out admission forms very soon because they fear that the students from other boards who have already got their results will move out of the state if there is any delay in college admission. The higher secondary results on the other hand are not likely to be published before June 5. As a result the HS candidates who want to study honours courses are suffering from fear psychosis. They are under stress if they will be able to meet the dates of admission as it requires running from one college to another to submit forms even if they can be downloaded online.”
 
 
  
  
 
 He added that another trouble could be the clashing of dates for admission tests conducted by some universities with that of other courses outside Bengal.
 
 “CBSE and ISC students have secured very high marks. Many have bagged 100 marks. Not too many students from HS Council will be able to compete as the marking pattern is different. In colleges with few seats most will be filled up by students from other boards,” Basu added.
 
 Pointing out that mental stress is very high he said that the time span between the class XII results of each board should have been shorter.
 
 Shyamal Halder, father of Sweta Halder - student of Vivekananda school said that she is under stress. ‘Without HS results she can’t decide on which stream to enrol in undergraduate courses. Sweta had studied with science stream in plus two. She wants to get admissions in nursing and has appeared in the examination. Her WBJEE ranks are average. Also, we are waiting to know her marks in Physics as the question paper had left her disappointed after the examination. This delay is undeserving,” Halder, a resident of Thakurpukur said.
 
 Ballygunge Government High School student Sauptik Mondal is eagerly waiting for the West Bengal Higher Secondary Council to publish the results. “This delay is unnerving. Though even last year the results were published in June, we were informed about the dates early. I’ve appeared in NEET examination and waiting for my results,” he said.
 
 Another student of a government school pointed out that the Council should atleast inform about the tentative dates early. “With the boards deciding against bonus marks, if the aggregate falls then WBHSC students will be at a loss. From the marks secured by students from other boards it seems they’ve done extremely well with number of students securing above 90 going up. This will also mean that the college cut-off’s will rise,” he said.
 
 
