NAGPUR: Since more than a year, civil society groups have been fighting to protect the wetlands in the coastal areas of the state. Despite various orders being passed by the Bombay High Court and setting-up of a grievance redressal committee, the “state’s biggest man-made” lake   is under severe threat. Environmentalists have now drawn the attention of state chief secretary seeking his intervention.

 The almost 500-year-old lake, which is located in   district, is a man-made biodiversity-rich site and a tourist spot. Since centuries it is a source of drinking water for many villages around it. Trouble began for the lake in 2014 when the district administration initiated the construction of a skywalk over the lake which was built in 1530 and is spread over an area of 43.80 hectares as per the latest report of the water resources department. 
 
 Meenal and Sachin Desai, who are running a study centre for experiential learning in Dhamapur village, were one of the first few who raised an objection to the construction activity. “As per the Wetlands Conservation and Management Rules and ruling of various courts, construction is not allowed within 75 meters of a wetland. Here, they were doing construction right in the middle of the lake,” said Sachin.
 
 After fighting a battle with the administration of Sindhudurg for over a year, the Desai couple has now filed a complaint with the state chief secretary. They have demanded that the skywalk should be removed before the monsoons and offences be registered against concerned officials. “Though the construction is not in compliance with wetland rules, the administration is blatantly going ahead with it. It recently laid paver tiles on the skywalk,” the complaint stated. 
 
 They further pointed out that neither did the administration obtain a no objection certificate (NOC) from the water resources department, nor did it consult any expert committee. “In such projects, an environmental impact assessment is a must. As per the central government guidelines, it should have been a protected site but the administration has constructed 35 concrete pillars within the lake,” said Sachin. 
 
 He added that the ‘banned’ diesel boats are also being used. “The gram panchayat has given a contract for running a diesel boat. Though the committee issued a notice to the panchayat, the boat is still in use posing threat to human health,” he said. 
 
 According to Stalin D, member of the wetland grievance redressal committee, the process of notifying the lake as a wetland is under way. “The wetland inventory prepared by Nagpur-based Maharashtra Remote Sensing Application Centre has mapped Dhamapur as a wetland,” he said. 
 
 On the damage caused by the skywalk, Stalin said that the concrete pillars will increase the water body’s temperature and thus harm the lake’s biodiversity. “The complaints raised are genuine and we have asked the district administration to submit a report in the next meeting of the committee,” he added. 
 
 The damage of the construction has already started showing. Botanist Balkrishna Gavade, who recently conducted a study on the flora and fauna, said that the skywalk has disturbed the entire biodiversity. “There are 134 plant species out which 23 are rare and three endangered as per the International Union for Conservation of Nature. The construction activity has damaged a lot of these species. Also, as the pillars are built inside the lake, it is destroying the algae which is a major source of food for fishes,” said Gavade. 
 
 The lake seems to be shrinking too. “As per the latest report of irrigation department, the lake covers area of about 43.80 hectares. But the Ratnagiri District Gazette, 1962, states the area to be 50.58 hectares, If the construction is not stopped, the state will lose one of its biggest wetlands,” said Sachin. 
 
 LAKE BE DAMNED
 
 The story behind wetlands
 
 1. What are wetlands: Are areas where water is the primary factor controlling the environment and the associated plant and animal life. Once treated as transitional habitats or seral stages in succession from open water to land, the wetlands are now considered to be distinct ecosystems with specific ecological characteristics, functions and values.
 
 2. In August 2016, the Bombay High Court took serious note of the unabated destruction of wetlands and directed the state to create a grievance redressal mechanism. 
 
 3. In September 2016, the state formed a grievance redressal committee to monitor and protect the wetlands in the state. The committee is responsible for the protection of all wetlands including lakes, rivers, mangroves etc
 
 4. On September 26, 2017, the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change issued a notification formulating Wetlands (Conservation and Management) Rules, 2017. 
 
 5. In February 2018, Bombay HC directed the state government to use satellite imaging and mapping to continuously monitor and protect wetlands across the state.
 
 II. About  
 
 1. Built in 1530, is said to be the biggest lake of Sindhudurg district
 
 2. Spread over 43.80 hectares and adjoined by a reserve forest
 
 3. Facing severe threat from construction of a 2.5 kilometre long skywalk and use of a diesel boat
 
 4. As per NGT’s order, no construction to take place within 75 meters of lakes. This area is a buffer zone
 
 5. Breaching rules, 35 concrete pillars built inside the water body
 
 6. A total report of 134 plants out which many are rare species are being damaged due to construction activities
 
 
