BENGALURU: You could call him an election mascot or a democracy evangelist. Ananda Thirtha, 38, a software professional, has helped 30,000 young Bengalureans enrol as voters. This year alone, 10,000 youngsters made it to the voters’ list, thanks to Ananda’s efforts.

 Since 2010, Ananda has been going around city colleges before elections and helping youngsters who have just turned 18 enrol as voters. Apart from creating awareness on the importance of voting, Anand assists them in filling up application forms, attaching the right documents and handing over the applications in bulk to the respective BBMP zonal offices.
 
 
 Ananda, who used to work as a project manager at an IT services company, even quit his job in 2014 to devote more time for social work. He is currently associated with two startups.
 
 “I was inspired by a talk by   co-founder NR Narayana Murthy in December 2009 where he had highlighted the importance of voting in order to elect the right people. A few months later, I began with   in south Bengaluru, where I spoke to degree students about the need to register as voters. Though many of them filled the registration forms, not all submitted them as they couldn’t locate the BBMP office. Then I spoke to BBMP and began collecting filled forms and handing them over in bulk to the civic body,” said Ananda.
 
 Pranati K, a student of a private college in Jayanagar, who got enrolled as a voter after attending one of the awareness camps conducted by Ananda, said, “He told us that the voter registration is a hall ticket for democracy and it was inspiring.”
 
 Ananda, who is also associated with citizen groups and forums like B.PAC, estimates that over 1.2 lakh students get into about 500 degree colleges in the city every year.
 
 “But you will be shocked to know that only about 11,000 get registered as voters every year in the city. What I see is a lack of awareness among these youngsters about registering themselves for voting, though many of them are eager to vote. Also, many students submit forms with incomplete data or wrong supporting documents, because of which their applications get rejected. For many students, the voting day is nothing but a holiday. My effort is to fill these gaps and help them register as voters,” he added.
 
 With help from friends, Ananda has developed awareness videos, apps and web portals that help yet-to-be registered voters in locating their wards and assembly constituencies, among other things.
 
 Ananda feels the   should become more aggressive in registering fresh voters as there is a lot of scope in that area. “I am only dealing with degree colleges. Imagine what the number would be if one considers youngsters from medical, engineering, law and nursing colleges,” he said.
 
 The youngster, who also assists the   in conducting EVM demos, is working with apartment associations and software companies in getting their residents and employees enrol as voters.
 
 
