Mangaluru: The controversy over renaming Light House Hill Road is back, just a week before the state goes for polls. Former minister B Nagaraj Shetty, claimed that the road will be named, ‘Mulki Sundaram Shetty Road,’ within 30 days of the   coming to power in the state.

 At a news conference here on Friday, he said the Congress corporator proposed renaming the road, and a resolution was passed to this effect in the Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) as well as approved by the state government, which is again ruled by the same party. “However, when they learnt about it,   and others went ahead and brought a stay on it. We promise that it will be renamed within 30 days if the BJP comes to power. The issue has hurt people from all communities,” said Shetty.
 
 He said he has nothing against the institution which is opposing this, of which he too is an alumnus, as well his son. “I am not supporting this cause because I am from the Bunt community,” he said.
 
 Shetty attacked MLA J R Lobo by saying that most of the money sanctioned had been spent on the Thumbay drinking water project to provide 24x7 water, but there was still water scarcity. “The dam’s proposed cost doubled over the years. Who is to blame for it?” he questioned. “I myself don’t get enough water at home, and am forced to order water using tankers. Similarly, a huge amount of money is spent on the drainage system, but people are still facing inconvenience.”
 
 Resident slams Lobo
 
 Sharath Mendon, a resident of Bengre, said at a news meet here on Friday, that he is upset that MLA J R Lobo has published his photo in his booklet ‘Sadaneya Hadiyalli’. He said his house was damaged due to a fire, and Lobo who visited the spot in 2015, promised to provide compensation. “Even after three years, no money has been sanctioned, but Lobo has projected us in his booklet. We are sad, as my neighbours think that we have received help but it’s not true,” he expressed.
 
 MLA behind fake voter id: BJP
 
 Office-bearers of the BJP Yuva Morcha alleged that MLA J R Lobo and his team violated voter ID norms and created fake IDs to garner votes. Nandan Mallya, chief secretary, BJP Yuva Morcha, alleged that a Kerala student has a voter ID of her hometown as well in Mangaluru. “Congress leaders have targeted hostels, paying guest accommodations and places where students from outside the state stay. They have been given voter ID cards in violation of rules. We have come across around 3,000 plus such IDs,” he alleged. They also demanded that a case should be booked against those behind it. Mallya said that they will deploy workers in every booth to check any malpractices.
 
 Bank workers want Shetty name
 
 Mangaluru: Mulki Sunder Ram Shetty Fans Association and Vijaya Bank Workers & Officers Union have expressed displeasure over MLA J R Lobo’s stand on naming the road between Ambedkar Circle and Catholic Club near Hampankatta as ‘Mulki Sunder Ram Shetty Road’.
 
 Addressing a press conference, M Karunakara Shetty, convener of the association, said the MCC has resolved to rename the road as Mulki Sunder Ram Shetty Road. “The high court too has ordered to maintain status quo in favour of us. The MLA and MLC Ivan D’Souza have been making statements demeaning Mulki Sunder Ram Shetty, who is a visionary who served society. Though the association and union have sought an answer from the MLA, he has not replied,” he added.
 
 
