CHANDIGARH: Not satisfied with the seven unrecognised schools recommended by the four committees for  , the district education officer (DEO) has decided to again inspect all the 65 unrecognised schools that had applied for recognition in 2017. The inspections will start next week.

 The education department has also decided to go lenient on the unrecognised schools in terms of area and facilities. However, they have decided that safety will be the top priority that has to be fulfilled by the schools if they want recognition. Department will also not allow any school running from a residential and rental building.
 
 The leniency have been brought in as the government schools, too, will not be able to adjust all the students studying in unrecognised schools.
 
 Nearly, 15 unrecognised schools have given representations after TOI mentioned about the four committees recommending only seven out of total 65 schools who had applied for recognition. Some of the schools that have submitted representation have been running for more than two to three decades.
 
 An official from the education department informed that the schools in their representation had shared that their schools were better than many of the seven schools, that the four committees have mentioned. “The DEO has inspected the seven schools and has also found that some of them do deserve recognition. DEO, being the nodal officer for schools, has decided to inspect all the schools personally and make a decision,” an official told TOI.
 
 “There are some schools, we got to know about, which have been allotted land in the name of education trust and have been doing very well. They have CCTV cameras and smart classes. We feel such schools deserve a chance as they are teaching only till primary and are imparting quality education,” an official said.
 
 The four committees formed to inspect the schools had in their report recommended only 7 out of 65 schools for the grant of recognition. There are more than 15,000 students studying in 57 unrecognised schools.
 
 As per the report, no government school in areas like Manimajra,  , Hallomajra and Industrial Area, was asked to accomodate students from unrecognised schools as they are already overcrowded. None of the schools in these areas was recommended for granting recognition. However, the department has found some schools that are better than the seven schools which were recommended by the committees.
 
 Also, the officials of education department are planning to go to Delhi to study the rules followed by Delhi government in granting recognition. “They have granted recognition to schools operating in just 16 marlas. They have become lenient. We will study their methodologies and see, what among those can we implement here,” said an official.
 
 The education department has also decided to give a chance to the deserving (those fulfilling most of the norms) schools to fulfill norms.
 
