MUMBAI: BARC fire officer Suhas   refused to rush to Tarapur MIDC where a massive fire was blazing, saying he had to get the permission from his higher-ups, according to the police complaint lodged under the Disaster Management Act.

 As chairperson of the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), the collector can call for services of any agency, public or private, in case of a disaster. The district administration had activated its disaster plan 15 minutes after an explosion and fire at   factory around 11pm.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 As nearly 40 explosions were heard, disaster management officer Vivekanand Kadam called up Borkar, but he did not respond to the emergency. “We could have saved some lives and property if the BARC fire brigade, which could have been the fastest to respond, had reached the spot,” said Palghar collector Dr Prashant Narnaware.
 
 Fire brigade sources say BARC has one of the best foam engines to fight chemical blazes. Till help arrived from other stations, Boisar-MIDC fire brigade used water, which is dangerous and non-effective, and its two foam fire tenders did not prove to be of much help. By the time teams from   (33 km), Vasai-Virar (71 km), Thane (95 km) and Bhiwandi (93 km) arrived, the fire had engulfed four adjoining units and spread to over one acre land.
 
 The collector said a second call was made to Borkar a few hours after the explosion. “The second time too he refused to reach the spot. We had to finally send police and summon the officer,” said Narnaware. Borkar has been booked under sections 56 (failure of officer in duty) and 57 (contravention of any order regarding requisitioning) of the DM Act. BARC fire tenders reportedly reached the spot on Friday morning by when the flames were contained. BARC spokesperson Dashrath Dongra did not respond to TOI’s calls and texts.
 
 The collector also issued a notice to the joint director (safety), Directorate of Industrial Safety and Health (DISH), Vasai, over lapses in safety systems in the chemical units. Thursdays’ explosion at   is believed to have been caused by 25 drums containing 200 litres of solvent each being stocked dangerously in the factory. Recently, DISH was directed to inspect the over 1,000 industrial units in the highly hazardous Tarapur MIDC. The joint director, H Dhawad, who conducted an inspection at the spot on Friday, has been given five days to reply.   did not respond to TOI’s calls.
 
 Police are also awaiting the DISH report before a case is registered against the units. The district administration has also initiated an inquiry.
 
