The world woke up to the news of actress   succumbing to death following a cardiac arrest, and it has left everyone in dismay. Even when the actress had a prolific acting career that spanned four decades, she was always active in the field and never really took a hiatus from the intriguing universe of filmmaking. With her recent film being one in Hindi titled Mom, that released in 2017 and was quite appreciated by critics and fans alike, it felt like each time one watched her films, the audience were all the more enchanted by her acting finesse. 

 Sridevi has left behind a trove of films in Tamil, Malayalam, Telugu and Hindi. Though a major part of career lies in Tamil in the initial days and later in Hindi, Malayalis can take pride in more than 25 of her movies that also carved a niche for herself as an actor in the Malayalam film industry. 
 
 She made her debut in the industry with the film Kumara Sambhavam, directed by P Subramaniam. However, it was Poompatta in 1971 that grabbed her the State Award for the Best Child Actor. The film, directed by B K Pottekkad, threw light on the life of a child, who gets trapped in her mother’s friend’s house, post her death, and she is tormented. 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 The actress had collaborated with the late director IV Sasi for a few films such as Aalinganam (1976), Aasheervadam (1977), Aa Nimisham (1977), Anthardaaham (1977), Akale Aakasham (1977) and Oonjaal (1977). 
 
 She had acted with actors such as Madhu, Sheela, Adoor Bhasi, Jayan, Kaviyoor Ponnamma and many others. Her chemistry with actor Kamal Haasan was so intense that it paved for a collaboration of around 30 films, which includes Malayalam films such as Sathyavan Savithri, Kuttavum Shikshayum, Nirakudam, Aasheervadam and Adoor Bhasi directorial Aadhya Paadam. 
 
  
  
 
 With her Hindi debut titled Solva Sawan in 1979, Sridevi got busy with her Hindi projects, as the audience there embraced her wholeheartedly. After a long hiatus, Malayalis could get to see her in Devaragam in 1996, directed by Bharathan, which set yet another milestone in her career. 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
