AHMEDABAD: The theme of this year’s World Health Day is “Universal Health Coverage: Everyone, Everywhere”, and its slogan is “Health for All”. However, these ideals seem elusive in the ‘model state’ of  , whose health sector is ailing with a severe shortage of doctors in rural areas.

 According to the figures of the Union health ministry, the state’s primary health centres (PHCs) and community health centres (CHCs) are severely short of doctors; specialists such as surgeons, obstetricians and gynaecologists, and paediatricians; nursing staff; radiographers; pharmacists; and laboratory technicians. 
  
 
  The figures show a shortfall of 163 doctors at PHCs; 1,360 specialists at CHCs; 404 nursing staff at PHCs and CHCs; and 201 radiographers at CHCs. 
 
 Experts said that the shortfall of doctors could become a major problem while dealing with health crises in rural areas. The state health minister has said that the unwillingness of doctors to serve in rural areas was the biggest problem in providing better healthcare in villages.
 
 Figures cited by the Union health ministry from the   ( ) suggest that people in Gujarat prefer private hospitals to public hospitals, PHCs, and health sub-centres (HSCs). The figures show that just 13.2% of people in rural areas prefer treatment at PHCs against 48.1% who go to private doctors. Around 10.5% of people in rural area seek treatment at public hospitals while 28.2% prefer private hospitals. In urban areas, 10.6% of people prefer public hospitals, 26.8% choose private hospitals, and 58.3% approach private doctors.
 
 Kishor Kanani, minister of state (MoS) for health, said that the state government has been holding recruitment camps for doctors to deploy them at the areas where basic healthcare facilities are lacking.
 
 “Every Tuesday, we hold open interviews for doctors. We give them the option to work wherever they want and give them appointment letters on the spot,” Kanani said. “The biggest problem is that many doctors do not want to work in rural areas, especially in   and Kutch. The government has been making continual efforts, but doctors are not ready to work in rural areas.”
 
 Smita Bajpai, an activist working for a voluntary organization, said: “The state does not have enough doctors. And many even go overseas to practise. The state has been facing a problem in human resource management and in setting up infrastructure in rural areas.” 
 
 Bajpai said that the government needs to change the existing model and it should rely more on nursing and paramedical staff. Besides, centres should be set up from where doctors and specialists can provide services to nearby rural areas, she said.
 
  
