BHOPAL: Not very long ago, chai in   meant chai. According to one’s taste, one could have asked for light tea or strong tea, more sugar or less sugar. There were a couple of tea shops in old city mixing salt in tea. But, menu at a tea shop detailing variety of flavours available and ingredient therein was simply unimaginable.

 Of late Bhopal is in the midst of a tea revolution with outlets cropping up at premium market places, attracting huge crowds mostly youths, using the place for unwinding, dating or simply gossiping with friends. And, remarkably, this revolution is pioneered by highly-educated youth, some of them MBA grads, who discovered that modest commodity called tea could be a big money spinner, if market was explored properly.
 
 Madhur Malhotra, an engineer by profession, studied in Australia and worked for South Australia government for three years before coming back to his hometown Bhopal some five years ago. With his friend  , an MBA, he was looking out to start a business.
 
 “I wished to do something new. I would often meet   at Six No. stop in the evening to discuss what to do. Once we ordered tea. I found the tea stall very dirty. I told Shelly if proper tea could be made and served in a hygienic fashion, it could be a lucrative business.” That is how the idea of a tea shop was born.
 
 When asked whether he got any assistance/concession from the government like tax holiday as given to start-ups now, Madhur said “no”.
 
 Story of  , an MBA from  , is no different. He returned to Bhopal with an intention to start his own business but his father, an MPSEB employee, didn’t endorse the idea.
 
 “I knew my father won’t give me money to start a business. He had already spent a lot on my education and would not have spared a penny for business. He wanted me to find a job. I laid the foundation of tea shop from my home in  .”
 
 The fact that vast clientele at these new-age tea shops comprises youths- both girls and boys- decides its ambience. There is an air of informality in everything there. Self-service, tokens, chairs to pulled in one corner or another according to convenience of respective groups, comments of customers on tea and other edibles pasted on the pillars and light music going on unceasingly.
 
