NAGPUR: Aspiring lawyers from the city, Avanish Deshpande, Manan Daga, Shivali Nandanwar and Rashmi John, are the probable city-toppers in Common Law Admission Test ( ) of which answer key was released on Wednesday.

 Many other students also cleared the difficult national-level test with flying colours. The scenario will be cleared only after the result and merit list is declared on May 31, following which counselling and admission rounds will begin.
 
 The centralized test for admissions of law universities in India was conducted at Yashwantrao Chavan College of Engineering (YCCE) in the city on May 13. This year, the exam was conducted by Sify, which also conducts banking exams. This is the first time that   has conducted CLAT. Previously, Tata Consultancy Services conducted the exam.
 
 Deshpande, who is a student of  , told TOI, “I am satisfied with the marks I got even after facing too many problems at the examination centre. The students had to face problems because of the mismanagement by the centre. I had a tough time solving maths which was expected but I was prepared as I was giving mock tests regularly.”
 
 He advised CLAT applicants to solve as many tests as possible to clear their doubts and to be confident with their preparations.
 
 Avinash Naidu, director of Career Launcher, Nagpur, said the exam was easy and the difficulty level was just as expected. “The academy prepared their students with the questions that were in the exam, but the online test had too many technical glitches because of which the students panicked at the exam centre. Career launcher alone had 258 students who appeared for the exam,” he said.
 
 He also criticized the centres for having too many technical glitches with their systems. “The computers were hanging a lot because of which many students faced time issues. The timer which is set during the online exam once started can’t be paused during any situations which became a major issue at the centre as the students had to change the examination hall in between,” he told.
 
 Nandanwar said, “I want to pursue a career in a law firm. I am hoping to get admission in one of the top three National Law Schools. I am trying my best for either Bengaluru or Hyderabad Law Schools.”
 
 CLAT is an online centralized test which is conducted by National Law Universities on rotation basis.   conducted it this year. It is a national level entrance exam which is organized for providing admission in various UG and PG law courses. The exam has a negative marking criterion, which gives one mark for a correct question and deducts 0.25 mark for a negative answer.
 
 (Reporting by Tejas Mundhada)
 
 
