PUNE: Barely 10 hours after three persons assaulted and robbed a 22-year-old engineering student of his laptop, cellphone and cash collectively worth Rs 35,500 in the early hours of Saturday at  , the Faraskhana police nabbed one of the assailants and recovered the booty.

 The student, Shubham  , is originally from Aurangabad and has been residing at   in  . He sustained minor injuries on his hands as Shubham   (21) hit him with the hilt of a chopper, assistant inspector of the Faraskhana police   said on Sunday.
 
 The police found Bhujbal’s laptop and cellphone on Bhosale, a criminal on police records. Bhujbal is a third-year student of a city-based private engineering college. 
 
 “Around 5am on Saturday, Bhujbal reached Pune from his home town in a private bus and got down near Kasba Peth,” Jadhav said.
 
 He walked for some distance and was waiting for a bus or an autorickshaw at Kasba Peth when Bhosale, along with two of his accomplices, approached him. “They asked Bhujbal where he wanted to go,” Jadhav said.
 
 On leaning that he was headed for Kondhwa, Bhosale told the student that he could help him get an autorickshaw. “He told Bhujbal to come along with them. The trio then led Bhujbal to a secluded place in Kasba Peth and started beating him up with the hilt of the chopper. They snatched his cellhpne and laptop,” Jadhav said.
 
 “On finding a debit card in Bhujbal’s wallet, they forcibly took him to a nearby automated teller machine kiosk and compelled him to withdraw money. The three persons withdrew Rs 500 only from his account,” Jadhav said.
 
 After about an hour, the trio freed Bhujbal and fled the spot. “Bhujbal immediately came to the police station. We first sent him to hospital as he had sustained minor injuries on his hands, took his complaint and gathered details of the assailants,” Jadhav said.
 
 “We ascertained Bhosale’s identity from the CCTV footage in the area. We arrested him before he could escape,” Jadhav said.
 
 A local court on Sunday remanded Bhosale in police custody till January 9. “He has cases of body offences registered against him,” the officer said. The police have launched a manhunt to track Bhosale’s accomplices. 
 
 
