Hyderabad: After having successfully wrapped up the prestigious Global Entrepreneurship Summit 2017 in November end, the IT city of Hyderabad is gearing up to host yet another high profile global summit — the World Congress on Information Technology ( ) 2018 from February 19 to 21.

 The event, which is more popularly referred to as the Olympics of the global ICT industry, is being held in India for the first time. And just like GES 2017, the Telangana government is pulling out all the stops to ensure the three-day global event is a blockbuster and has set aside a budget of a whopping Rs 20 crore, including the Rs 5 crore that it had to pay upfront to the World Information Technology and Services Alliance (WITSA) for hosting the event. 
 
 Along with the WCIT 2018, which is being jointly hosted by apex IT industry body Nasscom, WITSA and the Telangana government, the Nasscom India Leadership Forum (NILF) 2018 too will be conducted simultaneously in Hyderabad.
 
 Nasscom president R Chandrasekhar told newspersons here that the event has several showstoppers and disruptors lined up, including Sophia the social humanoid robot that has been developed by Hong Kong-based Hanson Robotics. 
 
 According to him, WCIT-NILF 2018 expects to see participation from over 2500 delegates, including 500 from over 30 countries including Canada, US, Mexico, Brazil, South Africa, Nigeria, Taiwan and Armenia, among others, and will boast of a speaker list comprising some of the top names from the corporate world, in particular IT. 
 
 The key speakers include Adobe CEO Shantanu Narayen, Coursera co-founder Andrew Ng, Honeywell chairman David Cote, Emerson Electric president Ed Monser, NEC Corporation’s executive VP and CTO Katsumi Emura, Novartis Pharma CIO Scott Sandschafer, Standard Chartered group CIO Michael Gorriz, SITA CEO Barbara Dalibard, Capgemini group chairman and CEO Paul Hermelin. Isha Foundation founder Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev and Cornell SC Johnson School of Business dean Soumitra Dutta, among others, will also be speaking at the event.
 
 Chandrasekhar said the three-day event will have 22 power-packed sessions covering Artificial Intelligence, Blockchain, Experience Age, Innovation, New Globalisation, Future of Work, Sports and Technology. “Specific sessions will focus on the digital revolution and ways in which it is reshaping the world, particularly spotlighting the strategies leaders need in place to stay ahead of the competency curve. On the side lines, will be 24 sessions on Policy Dialogues, New Tech Deep Dives, Country Sessions, Analyst Corners, CIO Sessions and Boardroom CEO sessions,” the Nasscom president said.
 
 Pointing out that Hyderabad has already made its mark on the global IT map, Telangana IT minister KT Rama Rao said the city is already home to the top five most valued tech companies in the world, be it Apple, Google, Amazon, Facebook, Microsoft, and WCIT will only reinforce Hyderabad’s standing on the world map, bringing more laurels in terms of visibility and aspirations to be a global city.
 
 WITSA chairman Yvonne Chiu said WCIT, which was earlier being held once in two years, has since last year been made an annual event due to increased demand from countries to host it and India beat other contenders like France, Taiwan and Armenia to bag the event this year largely because it was the first to make a bid for the prestigious event.
 
 During the day, KTR and IT secretary Jayesh Ranjan also held detailed discussions with the Nasscom president as well as the WITSA chairman and WITSA general secretary James Poisant to thrash out the agenda and priorities of the event.
 
 
