PATIALA: The National Investigating Agency (NIA) on Monday filed chargesheets in the Hindu outfit leader Amit Sharma and pastor Sultan   in the special   court of Anshul Berry at Mohali.

 The investigating agency has sought the discharge of Taljit Singh alias Jimmy claiming no evidence had emerged against him during the investigations. In its chargesheet with regard to the Ravinder Gosain murder case filed before the same court on May 4, the NIA had requested that Jimmy be discharged of all the charges.
 
 The agency has charged 11 others, including British national Jagtar Singh Johal under Sections 302 (murder), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention), 379 (theft), 416 (cheating by personation) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC, Sections 16, 17, 18, 18A, 18B, 20, 21 and 23 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and Sections 25 and 27 of the Arms Act.
 
 Besides Johal, 10 others named in the chargesheet are Hardeep Singh Shera, Ramandeep Singh Bagga, Pahar Singh, Dharminder Singh Gugni, Anil Kala, Parvez, Malook, Amaninder Singh, Ravipal Singh and Manpreet Singh.
 
 The NIA claimed that four others, including Harmeet Singh alias Ph D, who is an ISI-backed pro-Khalistan activist operating from Lahore in Pakistan; Gursharanbir Singh, a British national based in Coventry, UK, who was involved in the killing of Rulda Singh, president of Rashtriya Sikh Sangat, Punjab, in July 2009; Gurjinder Singh Shastri, a resident of Brescia in Italy; and Gurjant Singh, another pro-Khalistan UK-based terrorist be declared proclaimed offenders in the case.
 
 Confirming the development, NIA counsel Surinder Kumar said chargesheets in the remaining cases of targeted killings would also be filed in the next few days. He said the charges against the accused remain the same as mentioned in the first chargesheet filed by the NIA in the Ravinder Gosain case.
 
 Johal’s defence counsel Jaspal Singh Manjhpur said the chargesheet was presented before the court in his absence and they would be getting the copies of the same during the next date of hearings fixed for May 21, 22 and 23.
 
 In its chargesheet, the NIA told the court that it would be putting up 172 witnesses for examination during the trial. Most of the witnesses listed by the NIA are police officials who investigated the targeted killings before the investigations were handed over to the NIA, besides, bankers and staffers of forex companies through which money was transferred from foreign countries to the accounts of the local contacts. 
 
 The incidents
 
 A leader of the organization called ‘Hindu Takhat’, Amit Sharma, had been gunned down by two unidentified assailants near the Durga Mata Mandir in Ludhiana on January 14, 2017. As per the NIA files, Sharma was shot dead between 8.30 pm and 8.45 pm on January 14, 2017, when he was about to get into his car parked near Guru Nanak stadium Ludhiana. Pastor Sultan Masih was shot dead by two unidentified persons at 8.45 pm on July 15, 2016, while he was attending a call on a mobile phone outside the Golden Church at Mohalla Peeru Banda, Ludhiana.
 
 
