YAMUNANAGAR: The 18-year-old Yamunanagar boy, who shot his school principal on January 20, told interrogators that she had insulted him in front of his fellow students which enraged him to an extent that he decided to teach her a lesson. The accused’s two-day police remand ended on Tuesday after which he was sent to judicial custody while the court fixed February 6 as the next date of hearing.

 During his two-day questioning, the boy also told the police that principal   had caught him with a mobile phone in the school after which she would frequently scold him in front of his classmates. He added that   had threatened to withhold his role number and he feared that he would lose an academic year if she did not allow him to take the exams.
 
 On the day of the killing, the boy had first asked the principal to clear his file and issue him the role number. After she refused, he reportedly lost control and fired at the principal in spur of the moment. The boy also told the police that he was unable to think straight, but wanted to do something drastic to resort his ‘respect’ among his schoolmates. 
 
 He said initially he took his father’s licenced revolver to use it to threaten the principal but as she refused to sign his file and issue him the role number, he took out the revolver and fired at her. The boy also admitted that he was enraged by the repeated scolding in the school. Police sources said during his questioning, it also emerged that the boy had an access to his father’s revolver, which was used in the crime. 
 
 Meanwhile, a silence prevailed inside the building of   on Wednesday as the educational institute is closed since the incident. The school management decided to hold exams for classes IX and XI scheduled for Wednesday at the junior wing of the school located in the adjacent lane. 
 
 Sarita Kamboj, one of the directors of school management, said, “There is a state of shock and grief at the loss of a competent, honest and hard-working principal. The school management and entire staff stand with the family that has suffered an irreplaceable and irreparable loss. The perpetrator of this crime should be brought to justice.”
 
 Ritesh Chhabra, son of the deceased, posted on her social media page, “Ritu Chhabra was brutally killed by one of her students and the family demands justice for thousands of people who loved her. If she doesn’t get justice, this will be a shame on the entire educational and judiciary system. If a teacher/principal gets killed for showing the right path to a student, I believe there are no moral values left in the society any more. For the betterment of education, I seek the support of everyone to get justice for her. She was not only a mother to me but a teacher too.”
 
 
