CHANDIGARH: Professor and chairperson, physics, Indian Institute of Science, Education and Research (IISER) Pune, Sunil  , expressed his concern and frustration over the institution not being able to provide grants to research scholars who have joined in the past one year in the 12th Chandigarh   CHASCON-2018 on Monday. Mukhi’s statement has once again stirred the debate whether the country is making the required investment in science. 

 “The problem is a complex one. Earlier, the institutes like IISER used to have  , which were allocated to the research scholars. Now the system has changed and the money for research is only available with the funding agencies like Department of   and Technology. So, you have to apply for grants after you get a job and then wait for months,” Mukhi told TOI. 
 
 On the insufficient   allocated to science, Mukhi said, “The government needs to realise they will harm us in the long run with a deducted budget for science. The lack of understanding is the root cause of the issue. We need to understand the long-term benefits of science,” he added. 
 
 Mukhi suggested that to overcome the problem of fund cut in science, the industry can partly contribute since the government has to provide funds to other sectors as well. The policies should be formed and worked upon on a more consistent basis, he added. 
 
 Mukhi talked about the funds for researchers when a member of the audience said there is a brain drain. “There are many Indians who are highly motivated to come and work in India. As the head of the physics department, I scrutinize 200 faculty applications every year and we select only two or three. Out of the 200, 100 are really good and these are the people who are coming back to India. There is actually an enormous number of people wanting to come back to the country. However, what do they do when they come back? What we need is something else. A person who is qualified enough to do experiments in labs, needs a university or institute which will give them a laboratory space and offer them good amount of money for what they are doing to start their career. This is the point where we fail miserably in assisting them to start their careers here,” said Mukhi.
 
 He pleaded the policy makers to help such researchers right from the day when they arrive in India and do not wait for one year. Following this way, he suggested, would attract more Indian students and faculty to come back and do research here. 
 
 
