THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Raising suspicion about the possible links CPM may have with those responsible for the murder of Youth   leader Shuhaib in Kannur, opposition leader   on Friday said 19 prisoners, including Sunil Kumar alias Kodi Suni, who is the main culprit in the T P   murder case, were released on parole immediately ahead of the murder. 

 Addressing a news conference,   said that Shuhaib was murdered in the same manner as T P Chandrasekharan and it is suspicious that several people involved in political murders were released on parole together. He said that chief minister  's silence in this regard is an encouragement to perpetrators of the crime. 
 
 Former chief minister Oommen Chandy flayed the police for not arresting the culprits even four days after murder. He alleged that the police are waiting for CPM to hand over 'dummy culprits' who would confess to the crime. 
 
 The order by the additional secretary (home) R Sheela Rani on January 23, on the basis of the recommendations of the review committee (parole) of central prison Viyyur, had granted a parole of 15 days to 19 convicts, including Sunil Kumar, Anoop and P K Rajeesh, all of who have been convicted in the T P Chandrasekharan murder case. The parole order says that they should not enter Kannur and Kozhikode districts during the period.
 
 Parole applications are cleared at the level of DGP (prisons) only if the convict is seeking parole for the first time, that too if the police report and probationary officer's report in this regard are favourable. Subsequent paroles can be cleared at the level of the respective prison superintendent. While a convict can apply for parole only after six months in the case of central prisons, sources say that several convicts in the political crimes manage to get them sanctioned through political influence even before they complete the six month period, without the knowledge of the higher ups. 
 
 In some instances, prisoners even manage to obtain emergency paroles given in situations like death of near and dear ones or marriage of close blood relatives. According to reports an alleged attempt on the life of Shuhaib while he was in a special sub-jail in Kannur was foiled after he was transferred to sub-jail. Sources in the prisons department said Shuhaib was transferred from special sub-jail to sub-jail following some issues in the jail earlier last month.
 
 Police department sourcessaid there was a significant delay in reporting the murder to the higher-ups in the police department giving ample time for the culprits to move to a safe location. Sources suspect that police officials at the lower level could have turned a blind eye towards the incident which adds credence to the theory of a political conspiracy behind the murder.
 
 
