CAPE TOWN: The groundsmen at Newlands are ready at any given time with two dozen brand new truck tyres near the boundary ropes. They use it to hold in place the sheets that cover the pitch and the 30-yard circle. Given the kind of wind that blows in from the south of the Cape, there's little else they can do.

 
 
 That kind of wind, which had been blowing across the Cape for the last three days, gave itself a rest for the better part of Saturday as India battled to prolong their first innings and reach as close as possible to South Africa's 286 runs.
 
 
 
 In the end, they fell 77 runs short, and in turn, South Africa were 142 runs ahead in their second stint at the crease. "There's a lot of time left in the game. Overall we're in a good position. We're very much in the game,"  , who put in serious levels of concentration during his 154-minute stay at the crease and warded off lethal spells from SA's four-pronged pace attack, said after the day's play.
 
 
  
 A momentary lapse in concentration made Pujara walk back to the pavilion, cursing himself and thwacking the bat on his pads. Pujara's dismissal suggested the curtains would soon ring in for India in their first innings, maybe even in the first Test.
 
 That was not to be the case as allrounder   walked in. A brisk, risk-taking 93 made the wicket look altogether a different one than what the rest of his team had been batting on.
 
 "He showed a lot of character. We expected it from him and he delivered. He got us two wickets too and it was an outstanding all-round effort," Pujara added.
 
 The team sees Pandya as the kind of player who can deliver his best when he gets to express himself. That expression, without anyone having to spell it out, would mean going hammer and tongs. He did just that, scripting a neat second chapter to that hundred in Kandy last year.
 
 Pandya's innings conveyed yet another fact. This South African attack is not invincible. Pujara was right on the ball in saying the match still was for either team to win as the pitch eases out and India's attack begins testing the hosts again.
 
 To jump from 81/6 to 191/8 and eventually conclude at 209 was in fact serious improvement for the visitors.
 
 As for the hosts, they will now have to live with  's absence - the pacer has damaged a tissue in his heel and has been ruled out of the Test series.
 
 Pujara admitted that his own dismissal was a mistake for which he paid a price, adding that the one thing South Africa did was bowl in the right areas. But he kept coming back to Pandya's contribution, not forgetting to mention how it changed the dressing room environment after a rather insipid first session.
 
 There's a drizzle in Sunday's forecast for Cape Town. A downpour, while it's good for these parts of South Africa, may still not offer anything substantial to a region suffering a potential drought. But where cricket is concerned, India can expect help in making the ball swing.
 
 
