A salesman who suffered a brain tumour is suing   for "significant" compensation which could hit £1million - in a case that could cost mobile phone firms a fortune.

 
 Father of six,  , 60, claims heavy phone use in the late 1990s caused a deadly growth. His job meant using a phone for long spells - and in the days before it was illegal he had the gadget pressed to his ear while driving. Neil developed an   on a nerve between his inner ear and brain. He was left deaf in one ear after surgery in 2001 to remove a growth the size of a golf ball.
 
 He also suffers with balance problems. Neil said: "I have no doubt my tumour was caused by mobile phones. I spent almost five years glued to my phone hours at a time until I was diagnosed. I could feel the heat coming off it. I know this is going to be a real David and Goliath battle. It might take a while before it's settled but I won't give up. This is for the future of my children and kids everywhere."
 
 Neil is the first Briton to sue a mobile phone company on these grounds and the case - six years in the making - could trigger hundreds of similar claims. His battle for "significant" compensation comes as a controversial report alleges cell phones could be behind a surge in certain tumours.
 
 Solicitor Katrina Pope, of London Corporate Legal, in Mayfair, expects to make a "strong claim" by the end of 2018. Katrina, who has been working unpaid on the case since 2012, said: "A win in the High Court could set a legal precedent for other cases which we are aware of and that are watching our progress. It is ultimately about justice for many people who have, akin to Neil, been victims of what some experts describe as the 'smoking gun of the 21st century'. Neil's personal injury claim is outside the legal time frame of three years. We argue it's only now that the technology exists for radiation testing to allow us to bring the case - the first in Britain."
 
 Millions of Brits used Nokia phones in the 1990s. In 1995 just 7% of Britons had a cell phone but by 1999 one was sold every four seconds - and Nokia was the biggest manufacturer of mobiles.
 
 Figures published last week show cases of a brain tumour called glioblastoma in   rose from 983 to 2,531 between 1995 and 2015. It is found in the forehead and side regions of the brain. And a study in the   found higher rates of tumours in the frontal tem-poral lobe which "raises the suspicion mobile and cordless phone use may be promoting gliomas".
 
