MUMBAI:   has provided cybercriminals and the country’s foreign enemies a single target to potentially cripple Indian businesses and administration in ways that were inconceivable a few years ago, according to a staff study by a   ( ) arm. 

 The study concludes that the benefits to consumers have been mixed, with not much benefit to those in the last mile.
 
 In a report titled ‘Biometrics and its impact in India’ published by the RBI-promoted Institute for Development and Research in Banking Technology (IDRBT), S Anant, an adjunct facility, has pointed out that the loss to the economy and citizens in case of an attack on the Aadhaar database would be incalculable.
 
 According to the study, it is too early to effectively compute or understand the costs or benefits of Aadhaar since the project is yet to be fully operational. “For the government, the economic benefits will be far fewer than what has been thought till date. The best-case scenario is that it will allow de-duplication and will facilitate a one-time readjustment in the cost of expenditure of the government,”it said.
 
 “The headline claims about savings that accrue from the use of Aadhaar is controversial. While the government claims that, till date, it has already saved about Rs 14,672 crore by using Aadhaar through various DBT programmes, a recent study by a Canadian agency claimed that the government actually incurred a loss of Rs 97 crore,” the report said.
 
 The report points out that the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG), too, has said that savings of Rs 22,000 crore claimed by the government for FY15 and FY16 was largely due to the drastic fall in prices of imported LPG from global factors. 
 
 “In contrast, the CAG noted it (savings) added up to less than Rs 2,000 crore,” the report said. The report warns that unless different authentic methods are available concurrently for authentication, there is a risk that citizens will be troubled due to the quality of biometrics captured and stored. “It could lead to ‘identity denials’ wherein a person can be denied the fact that they are who they are,” the report said.
 
