Vadodara: Just a day before the Baroda begins its Vijay Hazare Trophy tour, the team physio raised questions about the selection procedure and criteria.  Danny Pereira, sports physiotherapist of Baroda Ranji team, has shot off an email to the selectors after questions were raised about selection of wicket-keeper Viraj Bhosle who had failed the fitness tests.  Pereira in his mail sent on Saturday wrote: ‘Also, the criteria and procedure of the selection process was inappropriate. As always, the fitness test is always conducted before the selection of players for any tournament. In this case, fitness test was conducted after or during the selection/practice matches. It is always a good practice to first undergo a fitness test and identify a set of fit players and then divide them into teams and play practice matches.’  ‘But the process here was not followed best known to the selection committee. The decision of conducting a fitness test on 29th of January 2018 was also decided well in advance at Kolkata by the coach, trainer and myself. But the plan did not materialize on January 29 but after having discussions with the coach and selection committee and finally after convincing them it was decided to have it on 1st and 2nd February 2018. Why the fitness test was delayed and not insisted to be conducted on 29th (January) is known best to the coach and selection committee,’ the mail stated.  The selection of Bhosle, nephew of former India keeper, Kiran More for Vijay Hazare Trophy had led to differences among the selectors as he had failed the fitness tests.  BCA secretary (in-charge) Snehal Parikh had said that the team physio told the selectors that Bhosle’s case was borderline so he was selected.  Pereira, however, wrote in his mail that he had not said anything about match fitness or borderline fitness. ‘I submitted my reports with all statistics of players undergone the fitness tests and left the final decision with the selection committee to decide who best suits their plan for the following Vijay Hazare tournament.’ When contacted, Parikh said, “We have read his email and we will take up the issue at an appropriate time after the tournament. It’s an internal issue.”