MUMBAI: An investigation by law firm Luthra & Luthra into allegations of founders siphoning off money will determine efforts by the beleaguered   to find itself a buyer. 

 The potential acquirers, Manipal Hospitals backed by private equity investor TPG, and Malaysia’s  , have decided to wait for the investigation report to be submitted by the law firm in the coming days, people directly aware of the matter said. This follows audit firm Deloitte stating that it was unable to comment or form an opinion on the company’s financial statements, pending an investigation. Deloitte’s remarks were fielded along with the company’s much-delayed second and third quarter results declared on Wednesday midnight. 
 
 Luthra & Luthra was asked by the   audit and risk management committee to investigate the company’s interest in corporate deposits, inter-group and related party transactions, including compliance with applicable laws and regulations. One legal source in the know said the mandate to Luthra & Luthra also includes certain money trails, involving a former group official, which the billionaire founder siblings Shivinder and  , claim didn't happen with their knowledge. 
 
 This comes amid swirling speculation that the recoverable money might be higher than what was reported in the public domain till now. A Bloomberg report last month alleged that founders had taken out around Rs 500 crore from India’s second largest hospital chain. Fortis and the Singh brothers have denied these allegations and stated these were “secured short-term investments in normal course of treasury operations” with entities that became promoter-owned companies as part of corporate restructuring. 
 
 Manipal and IHH will have to deal with the lenders (who own about 25%) and the company’s board of directors to sew up an acquisition deal. The controversy-hit Singh brothers have seen their holdings dwindle to 0.8% after losing control of the pledged shares. But the bidders need clarity on the balance sheet numbers before proceeding with any dealmaking. 
 
 “Fortis management has been in touch with us. We have sought clarity on what we know and what we do not know,” one of the suitors said. They hope that the law firm’s report would establish the extent of the controversial money trail, whether it broke regulations and if it is recoverable. 
 
 Once the Luthra & Luthra report comes in, the suitors would decide on seeking Competition Commission of India’s (CCI) approval before entering into formal discussions with the lenders led by Yes Bank and  , among others. Fortis shares ended almost flat in Mumbai trade on Thursday but has risen more than 30% in the past one month. 
 
 The hectic activity on the stock is driven by speculation that Manipal and TPG, which is seen as frontrunner, or IHH, is very close to reaching a deal with the troubled hospital chain, that is struggling to pay rentals and staff salaries. “Both Manipal and IHH would require CCI nod before formally entering into a transaction with the lenders or the board of the company. 
 
 But all the interested parties — that number is increasing since the founders are out and the business is viable — are in dialogue with the lenders,” sources added. Private equity firms KKR & Co and Warburg Pincus, which had explored a deal sometime ago, too have enquired with the lenders. TPG and Manipal have been in deal making mode with Fortis for 16 months now. IHH, which is also in the fray to buy Naresh Trehan’s Medanta Hospital, returned to the ring after a court allowed the lenders to invoke pledged shares of the founders, who quit the Fortis board.
 
