BHOPAL: The Union ministry of home affairs has pulled up the state government for failing to provide unique identification number (UIN) to guns.

 So far, only 650 weapons have been allotted UIN in the state, while the total number of arms licence is in lakhs, which means majority of firearms in the state are illegal. Any   without UIN is deemed to be illegal.
 
 In a strongly-worded letter, the Union home ministry has asked the state to send fortnightly reports on the number of arms that have been given UIN.
 
 The state home department officials said they have written to all divisional commissioners and district collectors to submit information regarding UIN in their jurisdiction. States like   and Jammu and Kashmir are much ahead of MP in providing  . This is not the first time that the state has failed in the task. MP has missed deadlines in the past too.
 
 The Union home ministry had extended the deadline for providing UIN to guns in December. A majority of the   in   had become illegal because the state had missed the deadline for giving unique UIN to guns. The deadline was March 31, 2017.
 
 UIN is the Centre’s initiative to create a database of all licensed firearms so that owners’ records can be accessed at the click of a mouse. Having missed the deadline, the state government had written to the Centre thrice in the past six months to give more time to complete the exercise. The portal was reopened till March 31, 2018. After that, any firearm without UIN would be deemed illegal even though the owner has a valid licence, the Union government has told states. The countrywide exercise started in 2015 and was to be completed by March 31, 2016. The deadline was extended for all states till March 31, 2017. But the failure of many states, including MP, has forced the Centre to extend the deadline again.
 
 The Centre has made provisions in the Arms Act for UIN and created a portal where details of the arms need to be registered for the number to be allotted.
 
 District police chiefs across the country have access to this portal. SPs are supposed to upload the details of licensed arms holders in their respective districts and allot UIN. Officials in the home department said the portal was ‘locked’ after the deadline ended and SPs could no longer update the information to seek UIN. Lakhs of firearms have been left out, they say.
 
 “Majority of arms holders are unaware that such an exercise is being carried out. The Centre has given more time now and we are hopeful that UIN will be allotted to all arms owners before the deadline ends,” said an official.
 
