Nagpur: City’s first and only official selfie point displaying— I Love Nagpur— and nation’s tallest flagpost of 200feet along with an amphitheatre will come up in Kasturchand Park (KP). The heritage conservation committee on Friday approved the two works in the city’s biggest open space. Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, union minister Nitin Gadkari and Tamil Nadu governor Banwarilal Purohit will perform bhoomipuja of KP’s beautification project on March 25. The heritage conservation committee headed by Tapan Chakrabarti and having Ashok Mokha, PS Patankar, Ujwala Chakradeo, Shubha Johari, Neeta Lambe, additional municipal commissioner Rajesh Mohite, assistant director of town planning Pramod Gawande and others as members also cleared the MahaMetro’s proposal to dig up a part of KP for verification of underground utilities that form a part of construction of Metro Rail station inside the Grade-I heritage open space. The committee had given NOC for handing over KP’s 5,613.54 sq.ft land for Metro Rail station. Following TOI’s reports and activists’ complaints highlighting KP’s destruction and strictures of High Court, collector Sachin Kurve, municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal along with Heritage Conservation Committee have planned a beautification plan of KP at Rs 11 crore cost. “NMC will be the nodal agency for executing the works. State government has released Rs 5 crore to NMC. Solar Industries Ltd has agreed to contribute Rs 2.50 crore for construction of jogging track, plantation and selfie point,” said a member. The design finalized for selfie point will have 6-foot high ‘I Love Nagpur’ lettering in background with an Orange fruit symbol in place of heart sign depicting Love in a nod to the fruit city is famous for. It will come up towards RBI square. The committee cleared space of 10,000 sq.ft for installation of flagpost, amphitheatre and beautification towards Kasturchand Daga square/LIC Building. It will not have a compound wall, instead just a steel railing around it so as not to make it look separate from KP. Flagpost will be installed by a media group while the NMC will execute the remaining work. Former mayor and corporator Pravin Datke along with chairman of projects consultative committee Sanjay Bangale requested the committee to approve the project. Other works to come up on 12.37 acres playground will be cycling track, pay and park area, seating arrangements, renovation of heritage structures, strengthening of compound wall etc. The committee appointed a three-member sub-committee comprising Mokha, Patankar and Chakradeo to inspect the Zero Mile. The decision was taken following a complaint from union leader Trisharan Sahare alleging destruction of Zero Mile premises due to Metro rail and others works. He had lodged complaint with guardian minister Chandrashekar Bawankule who forwarded it to the committee. The committee also okayed NOC to Mother’s Pet Kindergarten for expanding the building at Seminary Hills. The area falls in Grade-I heritage hillock so required the committee’s NOC.