BEHRAMPORE: CPM state secretary   promised to support “individuals and organisations” beyond the Left family to defeat BJP and Trinamool in the   rural polls.

 “We will support Left candidates and candidates from the 18 parties with whom we have an alliance. But in places among the 77,000 booths where we can’t field candidates, we will lend our support to individuals and organisations that can take on BJP and Trinamool. We will lend our support to those who have succumbed under threat from the ruling party or has not sold himself out to them,”   said while addressing a CPM rally at the Behrampore Friends Union Club grounds on Tuesday.
 
 Mishra sounded similar to his argument during the Bengal assembly polls in 2016 though he didn’t name   this time after the Bengal line of having an alliance with Congress in the elections was turned down by the CPM central committee. Once bitten, Mishra shied away from naming Congress though he was talking about the party’s electoral tactic for the Bengal rural polls. The CPM central committee will debate on the party’s draft political resolution over ways to fight BJP in its meeting in Kolkata beginning January 19.
 
 However, learning it hard from Manas Bhuniya who won the assembly elections from West Midnapore’s Sabang in 2016 on a Congress ticket with Left support and then switched to Trinamool within a year, Mishra this time spelt out the two criteria that he didn’t in 2016.
 
 At the same time, Mishra pledged to take on both BJP and Trinamool at one go, in a way discarding the view from a section of Marxists that the Left should take all “anti-fascist forces”, including Trinamool, in a no-holes-barred fight against BJP. Calling BJP and Trinamool “two-mouthed snakes”, Mishra appealed to Left supporters at Congress leader Adhir Chowdhury’s turf to take on both BJP and Trinamool.
 
  “Trinamool was getting stronger since the 2008 rural polls and the Trinamool carve was ascending after the party came in government in 2011, but not now. They are decaying by the day,” Mishra said. “None of the ministers during the 34-year Left Front regime had to go to jail which has become routine now,” Mishra said with his main thrust against Trinamool. 
 
 However, the CPM state secretary’s observation over decay in Trinamool support doesn’t match in the recent assembly bypoll results in Sabang. On the contrary, Trinamool kept increasing votes polled in its favour though the erosion in Left and Congress votebank continues. In fact, Left votes taken together with that of Congress in Sabang is less than Trinamool. 
 
