JAIPUR: Rajasthan government has taken a major leap in girls' education. Once infamous for its poor female literacy rate, the state today has the highest number of dedicated educational institutes for girls. 22% of colleges in Rajasthan are 'girls only' which is the highest percentage in any state. 

 Of the 133 government colleges, 30 are for girls with almost one in every district, while the rest are both for boys and girls. The state relies on these institutions as a powerful medium for girls education.
 
 Upbeat over the girls enrollment percentage 50.07% surpassing boys at 49.93% for the first time, the state has announced to establish similar girls colleges in all divisional headquarters. 
 
 The state has opened a first of its kind girls college in Kota where both teaching and non-teaching staff are all women. It means that from peons to a principal and from security guards to sweepers, all are women.
 
 In the past 10 years, the state has established 48 new colleges, including 12 only for girls. “Opening up girls' colleges should not be seen a regressive move. On the contrary, it has proved to be successful as enrollment of girls has increased. The state is heading for a meaningful women’s empowerment,” said  , higher education minister. She argued that by providing girls institute at district and divisional level, the rate of dropouts can be reduced.
 
 These popularity of these colleges can be accessed by the fact that they are only institutes where all the seats are filled up. "When it comes to performance - academic and non-academic, the girls colleges are better performers. Even the rate of absenteesim is quite low in these colleges," said a government source.
 
 Government girls colleges in Lalsot, Sikar and   are running full to the capacity since they were opened in 2013-14. 
 
 Private edupreneurs are taking a leaf out of this successful model by having dedicated universities for girls—Banasthali Vidhyapith (Tonk), IIS University (Jaipur), and Jayoti Vidhyapeeth Women’s University (Jaipur). 
 
 All three universities account for about 30,000 girl students. Here, students from across the country are studying contributing to the empowerment of women nationally. Sources said that two more universities for girls, one each in   and Jaipur are expected to come up next year.
 
 
