Ruing the failure of India’s top-order during the first Test against   at Cape Town, that saw India failed to chase down a target of 208, former India opener Kris Srikkanth stated that the defeat should rank alongside the debacle in Barbados (1996-97), MCG and SCG (85-86) and goes on to show the team’s inability to close out games in overseas conditions. 

 
 Writing in his column for TOI, Srikkanth felt that the India’s top-order did know what strategy to adopt in the run chase. “Some of the top order batsmen either went into a shell for no reason or played an ill-advised stroke in the name of being adventurous,” wrote Srikanth, adding “There is a subtle difference in being positive and trying to attack the bowling at all times. All-rounders Hardik Pandya and R Ashwin showed what positivity at the crease can bring about. There is also a place for dogged defense, like the one displayed by Bhuvaneswar Kumar. The batsmen got caught in not knowing what strategy to adopt.”
 
 
 
 
 Despite South Africa missing out their spearhead Dale Steyn, owing to an injury, the pace-trio of Kagiso Rabada, Morne Morkel and Vernon Philander proved to be a handful for the Indian batsmen and according to Srikanth this was not because of the Newlands pitch. “Another opportunity lost. The defeat should rank alongside the debacle in Barbados (1996-97) and our inability to close out games at the MCG & SCG (85-86). The Newlands wicket had no demons in it and there can be no excuse in not getting to 208 against an attack that missed their spearhead in Dale Steyn,” opined Srikkanth. 
 
 
 
 While stating that conditions abroad are always challenging, the flamboyant opener said that players at this level are expected to rise to these challenges. “Conditions abroad will throw a few challenges. Test cricket is not easy and players at this level are expected to rise to these challenges,” he asserted.
 
 However, Srikkanth was all praise for the bowlers but rued the lack of support in the field, “The Indian seamers in my opinion did a splendid job. By picking 20 wickets quickly they put their team in the best possible position,” he wrote. “The comeback in the second innings also proved how they are quick learners. They might have a leaked a few extra runs in the first innings but the dropped catches did not help either,” he added. 
 
 He did remind that despite the disappointing loss, this series remains India’s best bet to win in SA. “As I had noted in my preview, this is India’s best chance to win a series in South Africa and I would like to stick to that opinion. The hosts are a brittle lot with the bat and their bowling not as scary as it is made out to be. India can still take a lot of positives out of this defeat and move forward,” wrote Srikanth.
 
 
