MUMBAI: Plastic bottle manufacturers and recyclers have demanded that the state government revise its decision to charge Rs 2 as a refundable deposit in addition to the   for packaged drinking water or beverage bottles whose capacity is less than 1 litre. They said the model is not sustainable if a recycler has to pay such a high refund for bottles that do not even cost that much. 

 To exempt smaller bottles from the plastic ban, the state government has asked manufacturers to set up a mechanism wherein consumers get their deposits back if these containers are brought back to recycling machines. To make the system work, manufacturers are tying up with recyclers to install reverse vending machines or crushing machines at public places with high footfall areas.
 
 "The cost of a bottle is 63 paise and if the government wants the recycler to pay Rs 2 for it, it will never be sustainable," said   of the Wild West innovations, one of the leaders in reverse vending machines. He also said that consumers will dump all brands of plastic bottles at one single crushing machine, affecting the quality of raw plastic raw. 
 
 Weight and quality of plastic differs from bottle to bottle. Recycled plastic can be used for making fabric, industrial fuel, and roads.
 
  of  , which has installed reverse vending machines in several spots in Gurgaon and is also in talks with the Maharashtra government, said there is a 30% gap in recycling of PET bottles in the country. "The machines we have installed in housing societies in Gurgaon receives nearly 340 bottles per day and the recycler is currently paying Rs 1 per bottle. Rs 2 target will be very difficult to be fulfilled," said Sharma.
 
 Maharashtra alone produces 1,100 metric tonnes of plastic garbage everyday. According to environment department statistics, 1.2 crore PET bottles are manufactured per day in the state. As many as 30 lakh bottles, with capacity less than 500ml, and 25 lakh 500ml PET bottles are circulated per day. Environment department officials said they will meet the   next week to review the situation.
 
 
