Actor-politician   has been honoured with a lifetime achievement award for his contribution to the fields of arts and politics at a ceremony in the UK's   complex in London. 

  
  
 The annual  , now in its 12th year, recognize individuals who have made a significant impact on public life or made a difference in their local communities. 
 
 The ceremony at the Members' Dining Room in the House of Commons building on Thursday evening was attended by parliamentarians, business and community leaders besides members of the UK Armed Forces as they braved extreme weather conditions and travel disruptions caused by days of snowfall across Britain. 
 
 "Confidence brings commitment, commitment brings determination, determination brings devotion, and when you have commitment, determination and devotion, besides confidence, then you get passion," Sinha, said in his acceptance speech. 
 
 "In this competitive world you have to prove yourself to be better than the best. If you are unable to prove yourself to be better than the best, at least try and be different from the rest," he said, adding that the award had given him the opportunity to visit the "historic" Palace of Westminster for the first time. 
 
 Sinha, who started his career as an actor in late 1960s, has to his credit over 225 Hindi feature films besides several in other Indian languages. A member of the ruling BJP, he represents Bihar state's Patna Sahib constituency in the Lok Sabha, the lower house of Parliament. Among the other winners of the year included Pakistani-origin UK Cabinet minister Sajid Javid, who was named Cabinet Minister of the Year. 
 
 "It's very fitting to receive the honour in this setting, the home of our democracy, our cherished freedoms, the freedoms that have made us one of the most open and tolerant countries in the world. A country that just does not celebrate diversity but we actively thrive on the diversity of our country," said Javid, UK's Secretary of State for Communities and Local Government. 
 
 He dedicated his award to his parents, who he described as 'heroes' for taking great risks to come to the UK to build a better future. 
 
  
  
