SHIMLA: The   high court on Thursday directed the CBI to file a fresh status report in the   gangrape and murder case on April 25 and had also fixed the appearance date for the CBI director on May 9. Earlier, the court had directed him to appear on April 18. 

 During the hearing of the case before the court of acting Chief Justice   and Justice  , CBI counsel Nikhil Goel handed over a fresh status report in a sealed cover. The court opened it and perused the same. Later, on the instruction of the court, registrar (vigilance) of the court resealed the same in the presence of the counsel for the parties in the court. After signing the same, the court handed it over to the registrar (vigilance), who was directed to hand over the same to the registrar, general of court, to be kept in safe custody. At this stage, the court showed no inclination to recall its order of Wednesday.
 
 Officials of the CBI, including Surinder Singh Gurm (SP) and Seema Pahuja (DSP), were also present in the court. After coming out of the court, CBI counsel   while speaking to media persons said that hopefully the accused involved in the crime would be produced before Court by the next date of hearing. He said that immediately after the court hearing concluded on Wednesday, the CBI had received some reports after lunch on whose basis the application was moved in the court. He said that the CBI had already said that the case could be cracked any moment. He said that specific lead had been received and by next date of hearing the accused would be in front of everyone.
 
 Not happy with the failure of the CBI to crack the case, the high court on Wednesday had asked the CBI director to remain present in the court on April 18. The court said it was only reminded of the fact that the crime related to the rape and murder of a 16-year-old girl had evoked great anger and pain in the entire state. “But today, we find that the stage has come, for in our considered view, as it appears from the reports filed so far, perhaps the investigating agency is clueless with regard to the whereabouts of the persons engaged and involved in the heinous crime,” it had observed on Wednesday.
 
 
