CHANDIGARH: Tired of increase in incidence of crime, especially stalking, snatching and sexual harassment, women of   in Sonipat, Haryana have taken up cudgels   on their own. 

 They have formed a "self-help" brigade like the famous Gulabi Gang. The brigade has armed women from every household in the neighbourhood of about 400 people with a thick bamboo stick. It has also installed an alarm with buttons in each home in order to convene members.
 
 Similar "vigilante" groups are also operating in Haryana's Rohtak and Kurukshetra districts. Delayed response of the police is the reason for setting up these "self-help groups," according to their members.
 
 "It's common to see a male or a youth sexually harassing women or passing lewd comments in lanes of the neighbourhood. The women being harassed can just press the panic button installed in their homes and all members nearby will immediately come out, armed with their sticks and hand over the miscreant to the police," said Mohalla Kalan resident Bimla Rani. Sometimes cops take time to reach the spot, so the women nearby can nab the miscreant in time, Rani added.
 
 Her neighbour Sheela Devi said they were forced to set up the lath brigade after incidents of sexual harassment increased in the area.
 
 DIG Satender Gupta, who is in charge of Sonipat, denied that delay in police reaction to their complaints had forced the women to form the group. "Anybody is free to form a group. But they should be cautioned against taking law into their hands," said Gupta.
 
 
 
 
 A house in the neighbourhood was rented out to two women, who used to get many male visitors at all times. Some of those men started frequently visiting this area and soon were loitering around and making passes at women and girls of the neighbourhood. Now, as soon as a woman spots some wrong or a wrongdoer, she presses the alarm and fellow members gather to round up the miscreant,” explained Sheela Devi.
 
 Sonipat is the assembly constituency of Haryana’s women and child welfare minister Kavita Jain. Her husband Rajiv Jain, who handles media affairs in the chief minister’s office, said: “We will encourage such groups and will honour these women as well.”
 
 Former councillor Vimal Kishore and a resident of the neighbourhood too supported the women’s initiative. “This has brought entire mohalla together. Sometimes we have to be tough with the wrongdoers, but its ok,’’ said Kishore when asked whether the brigade resorts to force against miscreants.
 
 
 Santosh Dahiya, the national president of women’s wing of Sarvjatiya khap panchayat supported the Lath brigade. “Such groups are formed only after law enforcement agency fails to check crime against women. People in mohallas or villages are aware of wrongs and wrongdoers of their area. The police fails to rope in people of the area. This leads to an increase in crime and, in similar instances forces women to form such groups. We similarly had set up Belan and Musal group in Kurukshetra,” Dahiya added.
 
 
