Guppy,  , Parava, Mayaanadhi… take some of the best Mollywood music albums of the recent times and you would see the name   featured as the lyricist of the songs, which continue to rule the music charts. 

 A cursory glance reveals the mature, yet contemporary wordplay in these tracks that capture the essence of the situation well. Regardless, the self-effacing 23-year-old lyricist, who has penned songs for 20 projects so far, says he is lucky to have got the opportunity to work in some of the best albums.
 
 “My focus in on quality, not quantity. Then again, I didn’t pick these projects; I don’t think I have reached a stage to be selective yet. I am fortunate that the makers of these films entrusted some of their songs with me,” says Vinayak, who hails from Thiruvananthapuram. The young lyricist debuted in the industry with Guinness Pakru’s Kutteem Kolum in 2013 at the age of 18, but his tryst with song-writing goes back to his school days, he recalls. “I got trained in music very early, and my mom Asha, who also pens poems, happened to gift me a musical keyboard when I was in Class 8. I composed a tune in it and wrote the lyrics, for the first time, and sang it for my parents and keyboard instructor. The positive comments from them gave me the confidence to write more,” says Vinayak.
 
 The lyrics writing continued even after he joined college, for songs composed by his friend Vishnu Syam. “Meanwhile, my mom mentioned Guinness Pakru’s new project one day, and suggested that I request him for an opportunity.” Through one of his uncles who works in a TV channel, Vinayak got Pakru’s number and called him. “At that time, the film was announced with Vayalar Sarathchandra Varma sir as the lyricist,” he says. But Vinayak was asked to write the lyrics for a particular situation and send it to Pakru. “There was no music, just a situation. They also asked me to attend the film’s pooja function. Anyway, I sent the lyrics and also took part in the pooja. Luckily, they liked my lyrics and gave me the chance to write one of the two songs in the movie,” the writer remembers.
 
 A post graduate in Economics, who also briefly worked in an MNC, Vinayak wrote the lyrics for films like Seventh Day, Sapthamashree Thaskaraha and Iyobinte Pusthakam while still in college. “At that time, projects were coming to me with reasonable intervals, so they didn’t eat too much into my time. It’s later, when I started working, that more offers started coming in. Realising that I wanted to write more, even stories and films, I decided to quit my job. I also wanted to work closely with the people behind these films unlike earlier, and my family was very supportive of my decision.” Vinayak now stays in Kochi, and has many new films like Rosappoo, Hey Jude, Manthaaram and Kuttanadan Marpappa coming up.
 
 Ask him about how the process of lyrics writing and presentation has changed in our film songs, and Vinayak says, “Now, songs are montages and there are fewer tracks with lip sync, unlike in the past when a song stood out as an individual, special part of a film. Now, they are used more as aides to story-telling. For example, an episode that might take 30 minutes otherwise can be packed into a song. Thaniye Mizhikal from   is such a song, while Gabriyele is not.” A lyricist thus touches upon the journey of the characters and captures the feel of the sequences, Vinayak says. “In  , for instance, the song Uyirin Nadiye belongs to this genre. The song was written and weaved in after the shoot and it showcases their past and memorable moments.”
 
 His song Pranavakaram for the film E, was a semi-classical number that stood out among the contemporary numbers and also won hearts, though the film did not do well. Vinayak says he enjoyed writing the song, though it belongs to a very rarely explored genre in the present age. “A song like that does not come by often. It didn’t matter how big the project was; I enjoyed putting it together.” However, he has not got a chance yet to write in his own unique style, Vinayak says. “I am a fan of the old style of song writing, like that of Gireesh Puthancherry. Also, I enjoy writing love songs better. One of the best compliments I have got was from Vidyasagar sir, who mentioned to a few of my colleagues, during a song-writing workshop he gave me, that my writing reminds him of Gireesh sir.”
 
