PUNE: The nearly 300 residents of   village near Bhor are worried about two little children — Karthik (8), studying in Class IV, and Kunal (6), a Class II student. Both have severe learning disabilities and are set to lose their only shot at primary education — their school.

 The village’s primary education centre, which functions only up to Class IV, has figured in the list of institutes facing closure across the state. It has 12 students and the next nearest school is 4km away. 
 
 A former student of this school had subsequently attended the neighbouring school and had gone on to score a record 95% in the Class X exams in 2016. Villagers say it’s unlikely there will ever be a repeat of this achievement.
 
 A disability of any type can leave one socially and economically stranded here. “Parents of children with learning disabilities seldom send them to schools that are a distance away. They need these schools nearby. If we lose our only school, there’s no hope for Karthik and Kunal,” says a villager who is on crutches. The two teachers working at Mhakoshi say close proximity to a school will only help the two kids. 
 
 “They are, at least, getting an education until Class IV. And that’s because the school is next to their homes. They are getting our undivided attention here,” says  , one of the school’s two teachers.
 
 When Vairagkar had joined the school 10 years ago, it had 28 students. “But everyone’s gone now. Mhakoshi has a population of 350, but most of the younger families have moved to Pune or Mumbai. We grow rice here and the crop takes about four months — families move for the rest of the year,” she says. 
 
 Kavita Shedge, whose son attends the school, says she will not be able to send the child to the other school. Moreover, she says the children will not be able to immediately adapt to the new syllabus. “Moving to Class V, without a minimum learning level, will make our children feel inferior. They will eventually lose interest and drop out. Is that what the government wants?” she asks. 
 
 Similar concerns are worrying the residents of Humbevasti village too. An hour away from Mhakoshi, this village — surrounded by hills — has a school with nine children and two teachers. It’s unlikely to survive the summer. 
 
 The older children, of mostly cattle-rearers and daily wage workers, say it takes them 30 minutes by foot to reach a school in neighbouring Bandalwadi. 
 
 “Humbevasti itself is atop a hill. If we lose our school, the younger children will not be able to walk 45 minutes and then climb uphill on the return journey,” says one the students. 
 
 One of the parents TOI spoke to described how the terrain changes during the rains.   has children in Classes II, III and IV. “The road gets flooded. Even the older children have trouble walking the route during heavy showers. Is the government really expecting us to send children aged six or seven through that kind of weather every day? They will have to walk 45 minutes, cross small ponds and carry large schoolbags. Primary education is not supposed to cause distress to children,” he says.
 
 
