LUDHIANA: Punjab education secretary Krishan Kumar has marked an inquiry to director public instruction (DPI- Elementary)   on Tuesday over a tussle between staff under the banner of Elementary Teachers' Union (Sekhon) and deputy district education officer (DEO-Secondary)  . The inquiry was marked after union representatives and local education officials reached Krishan Kumar's office on Monday. Importantly, the issue is now also with the police, and education minister Aruna Chaudhary.

 Kuldeep Singh filed a police complaint, accusing 17 teachers - some of them unidentified - of defaming him and hatching a conspiracy against him. 
 
 On the other hand, teachers complained to Chaudhary on Monday, accusing the officer of harassing women staff with false complaints. The education minister was on a visit to the city for the convocation of   (PAU), where women teachers and members of the union met her and handed over their complaint against the deputy DEO.
 
 They alleged that Singh called women teachers after school hours for inquiry and mentally harassed them. They also said the union stood against the official when he suspended two teachers of Government Elementary School of Baba Ishar Chand Colony in   over the viral video of school students lifting a garbage bin. Therefore, the officer has been nursing a grudge against them, they alleged.
 
 President of Elementary Teachers' Union   said: "In July, when new DEO-Secondary   joined, union members went to welcome her and discuss some issues. The teachers were marked 'absent' on the attendance register and went to the DEO office, but Kuldeep Singh said he received a complaint against them for being absent from school during working hours. He did not inform who the complainant was, despite orders of senior officers that anonymous complaints would not be entertained. We still gave a written explanation twice, with copies of their attendance register, where half-a-day leave was marked. But after the bin video went viral, he started harassing teachers."
 
 On January 24, the union gathered at the office of   (SSA) and agitated against Singh, after which he filed a complaint against teachers at Division No.5 police station, saying they were defaming him, and had gathered at the SSA office to attack him, but he managed to escape. Singh said: "The complaint against their absence in schools was marked to me by the DPI. Teachers have submitted an explanation, but the letterhead had their union Navchetna's name, which is not valid." However, teachers have refuted Singh's allegation and have said that the letterhead was in their union's name.
 
 In this case, police have already backed out, stating it to be an internal issue of the education department and asked both to approach seniors. DPI Inderjit Singh said: "I am yet to receive written orders for an inquiry. I will look into it once I get the orders in writing." 
 
 Meanwhile, Sekhon said: "After listening to us, the official marked an inquiry on the allegations." Kuldeep Singh refused to comment on the issue.
 
 
