Nagpur: Stunning dance moves, elegant postures and mesmerizing creativity captured the hearts on Day 1 of ‘Krishna Krupa Natya Utsav-2018’, a three-day national dance and music contest, organized by Shreekrishna Nrityalayam, Nagpur, in association with All India Artistes Association (AIAA) at Annasaheb Gundewar Sabhagruh, Chhaoni, on Friday. 

 The competition was inaugurated by MLA Sudhakar Deshmukh while the festival in the evening by mayor Nanda Jichkar. Rekha Gour, adviser to AIAA and famous dancer from city Prameela Unnikrishnan were present at the function held in memory of Sudarshan Gour, a renowned theatre actor and founder president of the association. 
 
 The rich celebration of art was a visual treat and aimed at preserving cultural heritage of the nation. The competition offers a platform to the budding artistes to showcase their skills while the festival will witness plenty of charming and inspiring performances by experts. 
 
 Spectators got a chance to see a wide range of folk, classical and semi-classical dance styles from across the country. Director of Shreekrishna Nrityalayam, Prameela said, “We are getting a good response for the fest as the number of on-spot registrations is high. Around 55 performances were staged on Friday and 90 on Saturday. The figure in expected to cross 180.”
 
 Prameela’s daughter and trained classical dancer, Honey Unnikrishnan caught all the attention with her grace as she performed Mohiniyattam, a dance style from Kerala. Dressed in a patent white sari with a neatly pleated golden cloth on the waist, she received accolades for her facial expressions and flawless presentation. 
 
 Breaking gender stereotypes, Kushal Bhattacharya from Kolkata enthralled everyone with his fast footwork and exceptional moves during his Kathak  . His hand gestures coordinated well with the sound of ghungroo cast a spell. 
 
 Biswa Bhushan Mohaptra from Orissa then took over the stage and portrayed his native culture through Odissi dance while Subrata Bhattacharjee from Kolkata summed up the evening with his engaging and subtle style in Bharatanatyam. 
 
 
