GURUGRAM: A month after it left a resident suffering devastating burn injuries, power discom   is yet to relocate a high-power 11 kV conductor (uninsulated cable) passing dangerously close to residential homes opposite the old income tax office in Sector 12’s  , despite repeated appeals by residents.

 On March 12, Nisha Chachra (33) was sweeping the balcony on the second floor of a residential building when she was pulled into the bare 11kV conductor hardly a feet away and electrocuted. “I came out and saw her lying motionless on the floor. She had passed out and did not regain consciousness for about 20 minutes. My wife suffered severe burn injuries on her thighs and back due to the electrocution. The burns are so severe that she requires plastic surgery,” said Jatin Chachra, her husband.
 
 Jatin said the incident occurred at 7.30pm. “After that, I called a senior official from the discom, who came and inspected the cable. Power cables pass through just one feet away from our house. They are such high-powered lines that even if we walk in the balcony during a normal day, they emit a whizzing sound. If it is raining and your clothes are wet, you would almost be dragged towards them,” he added.
 
 The official had promised to fix the matter and relocate the wires within two days, Jatin said. “But it has been a month now and nothing has happened. They promised to remedy the issue in two days. I have been calling them repeatedly ever since, but they are dragging their feet for some reason, telling us that their staff is busy in one work or the other.”
 
 Other residents expressed similar concerns over the discom’s “criminal negligence”. “They are responsible for this crime,” said Mrinal Satija, who lives in the area. “Another resident was electrocuted due to faulty cables two years ago as well, and yet DHBVN has done nothing so far.”
 
 Jatin said the conductors weren’t there two months ago. “Earlier, we had insulated cables for power supply. But they had to be replaced because there was some electric fault in them. Instead of fixing the fault, the discom replaced them with these bare conductors,” he said.
 
 While discom officials from the area couldn’t be reached for a comment, old Gurugram circle superintendent engineer Anil Goyal did not return calls from TOI.
 
 
