KOLKATA: The junior doctors at   and Hospital were assaulted by the relatives of a 42-yearold man, who died due to alleged medical negligence on Wednesday afternoon. Police arrested three persons — Sambhu Singh, Anil Singh and   — in this connection a few hours later.

 A section of junior doctors shunned work immediately demanding the arrest of the assaulters. Though some patients at the emergency alleged unavailability of doctors, hospital authorities claimed that there was no disruption of services.
 
 According to the family members of Adit Kumar Singh of Jorabagan, the patient had developed severe respiratory distress at home. Singh, who was a garment shop salesman, was rushed to the hospital a little before noon on Wednesday. The family alleged that doctors at the emergency asked them to take Singh to the chest OPD. “From the chest   we were sent back to the emergency unit. Almost an hour was wasted while we ran from one unit to another. The patient died without any treatment,” alleged a relative.
 
 
  
 They also alleged that the junior doctors misbehaved and assaulted them when they protested the death. The emergency unit became chaotic as more relatives of the patient stormed in. A heated exchange was followed by a scuffle with the doctors not letting the relatives take the body away before the police made some arrests. A team from   police station reached the hospital and brought the situation under control.
 
 “This kind of assault on doctors after a patient’s death in unacceptable. The patient had being attended to and stabilised at the emergency, after which, the doctors asked the family to approach the appropriate OPD for further treatment. In case they felt the patient died due to negligence, they should have taken up the matter with the hospital authorities instead of taking the law into their own hands,” said  , medical superintendent and viceprincipal of the hospital.
 
 Banerjee claimed the mob didn’t even spare woman doctors. Two separate cases were registered at the Bowbazar police station. While the first was lodged by the doctors who alleged physical assault, a counter FIR was filed by Singh’s relatives alleging medical negligence.
 
 Junior doctors said that they didn’t cease work and that only the interns had walked out of emergency services demanding the miscreants’ arrest.
 
