GURUGRAM: In line with Haryana’s   plan to reduce road accidents, a massive project to install cat eyes, solar studs and delineators (raised pavement marker) is under way in the city. 

 The project has been launched by Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) in collaboration with  , following a study by the Gurugram traffic police. Under the project, the master roads in the city — the dividing roads in the city in which majority of the intra-city traffic moves — will be adorned with studs and delineators, to inform motorists about turns, road margins and medians, even in adverse conditions such as fog and absence of streetlights.
 
 As part of the project, the Medanta road going from Bakhtawar Chowk, Subash Chowk road, Hamilton Court road, Carterpuri road, and dividing road between sectors 65/66, are some of the roads where the work in under progress. The studs and delineators will also be installed on the roads under the major flyovers, including IFFCO Chowk, Sector 29, Jharsa Road etc, officials said.
 
 “As of now more than 5,000 studs have been installed and another 5,000 are still to be installed, and 498 delineators have been fixed. Wherever there is a turn, delineators are placed so that the roads speak to the driver. The solar studs will make them aware of the road edges and also add to the beautification process of the road,” said Gurpreet Singh, road safety associate, part of the Haryana Vision Zero.
 
 The main feature of some of these studs is that they are solar powered and can be recharged with sun, and have better reaction window, as compared to conventional reflective devices, he added.
 
 The project was initiated after an extensive study was carried out by the Gurugram’s traffic police with technical expertise from the Haryana Vision Zero project officials, which decided on the number of studs that had to be installed throughout the master roads, which now comes under the GMDA.
 
 KC Sharma, the GMDA consultant, said that “most of the work has already been completed. Apart from delineators, solar studs and cat eyes/studs are also getting installed. GMDA had authorised the project and has been handed it over to Maruti Foundation for completetion.”
 
 A senior Maruti official told TOI the BOQ (bill of quantities) was prepared and released to the car maker after the key points were identified by the police. “The work had to be authorised by the GMDA as the roads belong to them. After the current round of work, the taping work, using retro-reflective white and yellow tape will be done on these roads,” he said.
 
 The Haryana government, in collaboration with several organisations, has already launched Vision Zero, an initiative to reduce number of accidents and fatalities in road accidents, by ordering a safety audit of prominent accident-prone areas. Gurugram is one of the 10 districts in Haryana which is part of the initiative.
 
 
