NAGPUR: In a major development that could make or mar the city unit of Congress, the Maharashtra Pradesh   Committee (MPCC) has expelled senior leader and former cabinet minister Satish   from the party. Anti-party activity by him during last year’s Nagpur Municipal Corporation elections is given as reason for the action. Chaturvedi, who is in Mumbai, declined an immediate comment.

 A letter dated February 22, signed by state MPCC general secretary Ganesh Patil that was made public through social media on Friday informed Chaturvedi that the party had cancelled his primary membership . Rarely does the party take such harsh action of throwing out a leader who has been a AICC member for 25 years. Chaturvedi is a four-term   and has been minister in the state cabinet for several years handling different portfolios. He was also guardian minister of Nagpur district.
 
 The exemplary action followed an infighting for over a year in which Chaturvedi aligned with former ministers Nitin Raut, Anees Ahmed, former MP Gev Awari and former MLA Ashok Dhawad in challenging the dominance of group led by former MP Vilas Muttemwar and city unit president Vikas Thakre. Chaturvedi group was angry over being sidelined and not given the number of tickets they wanted for their followers in   polls .
 
 What took the fight to a climax was throwing of black ink at state party president Ashok Chavan and disrupting his NMC poll campaign meeting a year ago.
 
 The expulsion letter states that several complaints were received against Chaturvedi for putting up rebel candidates in the NMC polls and creating conditions for a sordid performance of the Congress. Patil also stated in the letter that the city unit president (Thakre) enquired into the complaints and on collecting sufficient evidence of his guilt, issued a show cause notice to Chaturvedi on Jan 23. However, as no explanation was offered by Chaturvedi, the party was constrained to take action and was thus expelling him.
 
 The action, though expected, still left the Chaturvedi camp stunned. He is expected to reach city Friday night. He said he had lined up meetings with his workers and associates and would declare future strategy only after that. Thakre was also in Mumbai and said he would address media briefing here on Saturday on the matter.
 
 While infighting is nothing new in the city Congress, Muttemwar group which now enjoys good rapport with Chavan-led state unit is hoping such exemplary action would isolate Chaturvedi and once he loses party shield his workers would desert him. There are others who believe Chaturvedi staying in the party would have less nuisance value than outside. Both groups indicated more was in store and that the expulsion may not necessarily mean an end to infighting that has paralyzed the city unit for the last few years.
 
 
