TRICHY: Doctors affiliated to the   (IMA), Trichy chapter, boycotted outpatient wards at nursing homes and hospitals across the district on Tuesday, as part of nationwide protest against the national medical commission (NMC) bill, which doctors termed detrimental to the medical field. The Central Government has deferred enactment of the law by forwarding it to the parliamentary standing committee. 

 The outpatient treatment was hit in around 150 nursing homes and hospitals in the district. The strike commenced at 6am and continued till 6pm after which treatment resumed. As many as 2,000 doctors from the city and suburbs took part in the boycott. 
 
 “We strongly condemn the national medical commission bill. MCI should get status quo. While MCI is governed by 80 elected members, NMC is proposed to have 25 nominated members which would lead to a lot of confusion. The new bill will lead to mushrooming of private medical colleges without any permission which will affect medical education,” said Dr M S Ashraf, former national president of IMA. 
 
 By allowing 60 per cent MBBS seats to be filled with management quota in government colleges through NMC will deny poor medical aspirants admission to MBBS. Medical education will become very expensive and unaffordable to ordinary students, said IMA in its statement on Tuesday. 
 
 IMA also criticized the move by the government to allow AYUSH doctors to practice allopathy medicine after undergoing course for six months. “We have chosen to join modern medicine and we are practising it. If they want to practice our branch of medicine, they should be qualified by undergoing training in the required courses, without which they cannot prescribe modern medicine,” said Dr Ashraf. 
 
 Tamil Nadu government doctors association (TNGDA) also joined hands with IMA, but restricted their protest by staging a demonstration at the   (MGM) government hospital campus. Around 200 MBBS students, PG students, CRRIs and doctors of MGM government hospital attached to the   government medical college also took part. The outpatient treatment was affected here also. 
 
 The nationwide protest prompted the Central government to forward the bill to the parliamentary standing committee on Tuesday itself. “It is a (sign of) success that the government has forwarded the bill to the standing committee,” said Dr A Satheeshkumar, secretary of TNGDA, Trichy.
 
 
