MUMBAI: The   police on Monday registered an FIR against the professor of a prominent engineering college in central Mumbai after his student complained of sexual harassment. 

 Though the incident happened on May 18, the girl had submitted a complaint letter only to the institute. The institute’s officials handed over the letter to the police on Monday allegedly after political outfits put pressure on them for not taking any action. 
 
  
  
 The professor was booked for sexual harassment. “We have registered an FIR against the professor (name withheld) under the IPC sections of 354 and 354 A and are investigating the matter. We will summon the professor,” said  , senior inspector of Matunga police. 
 
 The institute’s director told TOI that they gave the girl’s complaint letter to the police on Monday and will assist them with whatever is required. “The institute conducts special classes in the summer for weaker students. The professor has been asked to not take these classes for now. The internal complaints committee from the institute, which is also probing the matter, is yet to submit its report. 
 
 We will take action based on the panel’s report,” said the director. The first-year engineering student had alleged that the senior professor, under the pretext of signing her summer term form, made her wait for over two hours and then called her in his cabin post 5pm on May 18. He allegedly pulled her towards him and molested her, she said. 
 
 The professor even threatened to fail her if she did not listen to him, claimed the girl. She ran home from there and came with her parents the next day to give lodge a complaint with the institute. Last week, Amol  , from Nationalist Students’ Congress, asked the institute to act against the professor.
 
 On Monday, the group staged a protest. Matele alleged that the girl was called by the institute’s officials on May 25 for a probe, however, no members from the women’s development cell were present. Yuva Sena, led by  , also took up the matter with the institute and senior police officials. Activists alleged the college did not act on the complaint for 10 days.
