Salem: The AIADMK government on Sunday made a U-turn from its seemingly aggressive posturing towards the Centre on Sunday with chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami lavishly praising the Narendra Modi-led central government.

 Displaying a warm bonhomie with BJP leaders Pon Radhakrishnan, Tamilisai Soundararajan and L Ganesan during the flag off session of Salem-Chennai flight service at Salem airport, he thanked Narendra Modi and union civil aviation minister for making the flight service a reality.
 
 “The prime minister has fulfilled many of our demands for the welfare of Tamil Nadu. We will benefit only if we have a cordial relationship with the Centre. But opposition parties do not like the warm relationship we share with the Centre,’’ the chief minister said.
 
 This is in stark contrast to deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam’s charges that the Centre was not heeding to the state’s repeated requests for an ad hoc allocation in the form of special compensation for Tamil Nadu. OPS had told the state assembly that Tamil Nadu has been denied its due share under central tax devolution and blamed the finance commission for reducing the same by 19%.
 
 Lately, AIADMK MPs were too seen stalling the proceedings in Parliament, demanding constitution of Cauvery Management Board. EPS himself had said that AIADMK was neither part of BJP nor an ally, seeking to counter growing charges that the ruling party was gravitating towards BJP.
 
 But on a day when DMK working president M K Stalin as well as AMMK leader TTV Dhinakaran mounted another round of accusations against AIADMK that the party was ignoring state interest to please BJP, Palaniswami has given fresh ammunition to political rivals.
 
 Palaniswami said the prime minister has promised to provide lakhs of houses under the housing for all scheme in Tamil Nadu. “This was possible only because of our cordial relations with the Centre. The Modi government is also supporting us to build infrastructure and promote industrial growth in the state,’’ he said.
 
 The central government, he continued, has sanctioned Rs 10,000 crore to lay the first ‘green corridor’ between Chennai and Salem via Tiruvannamalai. The CM also hailed the union minister for road transport and shipping, Nitin Gadkari, for sanctioning bypass road to reduce traffic congestion in Salem city the moment he approached the latter. “The road will be laid for 42km between Salem and Namakkal via Attayampatty, Kakkapalayam, Ilampillai and Omalur,” he said.
 
 He also mentioned about the fund allocated by the central government to expand Tuticorin port. “Annan (elder brother) Pon Radhakrishnan has been pitching for a new port in Kanyakumari. Both the Centre that the state will offer all support to set up a port in Kanyakumari. With the situation turning conducive for investment, several industrialists are approaching the government expressing interest to start industries, Palaniswami said.
 
 Civil aviation secretary R N Choubey, meanwhile, said steps would be taken to operate flights from Hosur airport under the UDAN scheme within three months. “Similarly, Thanjavur, Neiveli and Vellore airports will be included under the UDAN scheme and flights will be operated from these airports within six months,” he said.
 
 Pon Radhakrishnan said the prime minister had sanctioned Rs 1.5 lakh crore to Tamil Nadu for road transport development. “The Centre has also announced railway projects worth thousand crores for the state,” he said.
 
 
