NAINITAL: Forget early morning queues, settings with touts and the hassles of paperwork for booking a   (CTR) safari, just click on your mobile to book the night stay and day trip now.
 
  Corbett officials said that the earlier process of producing permission in writing for day safari and night stay inside the reserve will soon be replaced by a digital mechanism. “A web portal is being set up by the National Informatics Centre that will enable visitors to book permits online after which they will get a QR code on their registered mobile number. This code will be scanned by guards at the reserve to allow entry to visitors,” said Parag Madhukar Dhakate, CTR director in-charge.
  
  He added that a pilot project in this regard will be initiated within a week. “The new portal will start functioning by this month end. It will be implemented as a pilot project for 15 days and based on the response we will make it a permanent system,” Dhakate added.
  
  Earlier, visitors had to book permissions to enter the reserve for day safari and night stay from the official CTR website. They had to produce the printout at the entry point to be examined by the gatekeeper thoroughly taking up at least 10-15 minutes.
  
  With the proposed initiative, web bookings will be done in three steps compared to eight steps in the present system, thus saving a lot of time and hassle.
  
  On completing the process on the portal, a message will be delivered on the registered mobile number with a QR Code. This code will be scanned at the entry point that will take just seconds to verify the authenticity of the visitor.
  
  Commenting on the proposal, Hari Singh Mann, president of Corbett Hotel and Resort Association, said, “The new system will be easier and tourist friendly. Owing to the hassles, many people don’t opt for Corbett but now the park’s footfall will increase.”
  
  Puneet Singh, a Delhi resident and a regular at Corbett, said, “For the last 10 years, I have visited Corbett with my family and friends many times. But I stopped recommending Corbett to friends as it became very expensive last year. Now that the reserve administration is making the park tourist friendly, I will visit it again.”
  
  In December last year, day safari in CTR became expensive as the administration imposed 38% hike in fares with GST. Rents of gypsy safari vehicles had also gone up by 25-38%.
