HYDERABAD: It all started with a small target for  , to win the first two   games at home. They achieved that and went on to win six matches to be the table toppers with 12 points. They, however, reckon the job is still not done.

 
 With a six-day rest after yet another narrow, 11-run win over Rajasthan Royals in Jaipur last month, the Sunrisers will take on   at the Rajiv Gandhi International Stadium on Saturday, aware that the northern outfit can play the devil with their playoff hopes as the hosts enter the homestretch — this match will be the first of their remaining three league matches here.
 
 Shikhar Dhawan’s inconsistency at the top with just 152 runs from seven outings has hindered Sunrisers’ plans of big totals and though skipper Kane Williamson reckons all that the team needs is some smart adjustments to get par totals as against the small totals they’ve been posting and looking to bowlers for deliverance, it’s clear that they could have certainly been happy with a few more runs from the middle order that has failed to rise to the occasion.
 
 The Sunrisers came close to chasing down big totals — against Chennai Super Kings and Kings XI Punjab — but it’s been Williamson (322 runs) who has shouldered the hosts’ batting as the likes of Wriddhiman Saha, Yusuf Pathan, Manish Pandey and Deepak Hooda have fired in fits and starts, unlike the bowling, which has been the hosts’ trump card time and again in this edition.
 
 Rajasthan Royals, Mumbai Indians and Kings XI have all found the going tough against the Sunrisers’ attack here and Hyderabad have been well served by the trio of Siddharth Kaul (11), Sandeep Sharma, Basil Thampi and the spin duo of Rashid Khan (10) and Shakib Al Hasan (10) even in the absence of their spearhead Bhuvneshwar Kumar.
 
 The pacer has missed the last three matches to rest his sore back and the Hyderabad skipper hoped that he will pass the fitness muster against a struggling Delhi outfit.
 
 With twice as many losses as wins, Delhi have six points and are sixth in the table, but they have shown a better sense of purpose ever since   assumed charge. Rishabh Pant (375) and Iyer (307) lead their batting charts, Prithvi Shaw has been getting rave reviews, while Purple cap holder Trent Boult (13 wkts) would want to make an impression against his former team, and it’s still not late for Glenn Maxwell to come good.
 
 
