NEW DELHI: A galaxy of global business leaders will join top policymakers at the fourth edition of the two-day Global Business Summit (GBS) presented by   and The  , which begins in the Capital on February 23.

 Prime Minister   will address the summit on the opening day, which comes at a time when the Indian economy is poised for rapid growth and has undergone far reaching economic reforms, such as roll out of the Goods & Services Tax (GST).
 
 The 2018 edition of the Global Business Summit will unfold the myriad contours of the world economy, along with defining the factors that will shape the Indian economy in the years ahead. The summit will serve as a platform for global leaders to deliberate on issues affecting the global and the domestic economy.
 
  Jr., trustee, Trump Organization, Dara Khosrowshahi, CEO, Uber, Piyush Goyal, minister of railways and coal, Nitin Gadkari, minister of road, transport and highways, and eminent economist Andy Xie will be among the other star speakers.
 
 Reed Hastings, founder, Netflix, will take the stage and analyse 'rules of the game in media' - a topic scrutinizing the fastevolving media landscape, while Steve Wozniak, co-founder of Apple Computer and inventor of the Apple II PC, will share his views on technology.
 
 Jeff Maggioncalda, CEO, Coursera, William Bill Thomas, Chairman of KPMG International and Rana Kapoor, MD & CEO, YES BANK, will engage in a discussion on transforming today's 'Challenges into Tomorrow's Opportunities.' "The 2018 edition of the YES BANK Economic Times Global Business summit focusing on "new economy and new rules," provides a platform for global policymakers, opinion and thought leaders to discuss and deliberate on ideas, which will shape the new world order," said Kapoor.
 
 Over the years, the summit has hosted prominent political and business leaders from not only India but across the world, including Dick Cheney; , former vice president of the US, economists Paul Krugman and Nouriel Roubini; scholar, statistician and risk analyst Nassim Nicholas Taleb, Martin Feldstein, George F Baker professor of Economics, Ram Charan, business advisor, author and speaker, economist Jagdish Bhagwati, Randi Zuckerberg, founder and CEO, Zuckerberg Media and spiritual leader Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev, founder of Isha Foundation.
 
 "Disruptive innovation is changing all businesses and this will only accelerate. At a macro level, while growth is picking up, protectionism is also growing. We believe the intellectual heft and diversity that the speakers bring to the summit, will help make sense of a complicated world," said Vineet Jain, MD, BCCL.
 
