BAREILLY:  , who is in-charge of Bareilly, was in for a shock on Friday when he found as many as   from the   he was to chair at Vikas Bhavan here. A furious Pathak instructed   RV Singh to take action against the   and report to him.
 
  The minister also asked subordinate officials who had been were sent to the meeting in lieu of their seniors to leave. He warned officials to change their style of working and to pay heed to complaints by public representatives.
  
  Before the meeting started, Pathak asked the officials who were in attendance to introduce themselves. He was stunned to learn that some departmental heads had sent their subordinates. Sources said deputy inspector general, stamp and registry, regional transport officer, PWD superintendent engineer, district excise officer and district entertainment officer were absent from the meeting.
  
  Pathak directed the DM to issue show-cause notices to these officials, seeking their explanation. “If they do not give a reasonable reply, take stern action against them,” he said.
  
  He also issued a warning to district social welfare officer, Ashok Dixit, for receiving several complaints against him.
  
  During the meeting, chief development officer (CDO) Satendra Kumar said over 1,000 hectare government land had been freed from encroachers and FIRs had been lodged against 15 land mafia.
  
  After the review meeting, Pathak went to Nagaria Kalyanpur village in Meerganj block, where he inaugurated a reservoir. “We have launched a drive to recharge one pond in every 1,193 villages under the water harvesting drive. These reservoirs will be constructed under MNREGA. According to the survey conducted earlier, there are around 5,000 ponds in the district. In the first phase, we will take up one pond at every village. Saplings will be planted around the ponds and in future, these reservoirs will be used for fishery purposes. The construction work will start in all villages on February 5,” he said.
  
  Minster said there was no dearth of funds in MNREGA and labourers would be able to get work at their own villages for digging up ponds.
