Vadodara: The Sanjaynagar slum rehabilitation project in Warasiya seems to be a jinxed affair right from its beginning. 

 While the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) allotted the tender for the project and razed the slums, a dispute prevailed one portion of the land with the social justice department unwilling to part with it and on another portion, an urban poor housing scheme had already come up.
 
 The VMC demolished 1,841 dwellings and against this 2,637 houses will be constructed at the site for the urban poor under a public-private partnership project under the Pradhan Mantri Aavas Yojana (PMAY). The settlement was notified as a slum by the committee formed under the PMAY and tendering was done.
 
 The civic body razed the slums in July and the developer started paying rent to the beneficiaries whose houses were razed. 
 
 The land parcel for the project comprises of survey number 384 measuring 89,234 sq m, survey number 417 measuring 3,940 sq m and survey number 814 measuring 52,813 sq m.
 
 It came to light that the survey number 384 was earmarked for imparting agriculture training to inmates of a beggar’s home of the social welfare department. 
 
 The land was never put to that use and slums existed at the site. The district collectorate wrote a letter to the social welfare department regarding the land.
 
 The department wrote back stating that it wanted to make a university for disabled persons at the site. The issue was taken up with the state government and after a meeting with the chief secretary, it was decided that the land should be given for the project. 
 
 Earlier this month, the district collector has again written to the revenue department giving approval to take the land from the social welfare department and hand it over to the VMC.
 
 The bigger goof up, however, seems to have taken place regarding survey number 417. This survey number already has houses constructed for the economically weaker sections of the society. While the plots with survey numbers 384 and 814 are connected, the plot with the existing housing scheme is located at some distance.
 
 While the tenders had included the plot with the existing housing scheme, there is no clarity on how the contractor will be compensated for the same.
 
 
