Chennai: With small and micro lenders — microfinance institutions and small finance banks, getting their growth engines firing at 15% , expansion and recruitment is on a high after it hit a lull during demonetisation. 

 Non-banking finance company-microfinance institutions (NBFC-MFIs) and Small Finance Banks (SFBs), which have an employee base of 78,573, have increased their employee strength by 21% q-o-q and loan officers by 25% q-o-q. With 9,000 plus branches, office expansion has also grown 21% quarter-over-quarter with MFIs expanding their reach in each state. 
 
 “Demonetisation effects have faded and we are looking at good growth in this coming year," said Devesh Sachdev, CEO, Fusion Microfinance.
 
 Players like Suryodhay Small Finance Bank, Fusion Microfinance, Utkarsh have been on an acquisition drive to tap into new opportunities outside of their home state. Even post-merger, institutions such as IndusInd Bank and Centrum Group are not looking at scaling back employee strength at target companies such as Bharat Financial and MFI business of FirstRand Bank. 
 
 IndusInd Bank said it looks to retain all of Bharat Financial’s 15,300 employees even post-merger because of the business potential in the industry.
 
 With ICRA expecting the industry portfolio to increase to Rs 2-2.1 lakh crore by end of FY2018 (from Rs 1.9 lakh crore now) and maintain an growth of 20-22%, MFIs feel justified in their expansion mode. To ensure quality in the industry’s desire for quantity, self-regulatory body Microfinance Institutions Network (MFIN) and Equifax last December set up a common employee bureau for tracking. 
 
 The bureau hopes to ensure that high standards are maintained at the time of recruitment and it is possible to cross-verify the background and credential of loan officers and other recruits.
 
 Fusion Microfinance, which has got Rs 400 crore in debt funding, plans to use that to hire 1,000 staff members. “From our current strength of 3,000, we want to increase to 4,000, ramp up infrastructure capacity and expand our network. This will help us increase our loan book by 60% to Rs 2,400 crore from current loan book of Rs 1,400 crore,” said Sachdev of Fusion Microfinance, which current had 358 branches and operates in 14 states.
 
 And the recruitment is happening not just in loan disbursal and collection. MFIs are now looking at professionals in risk management ,tech, customer service and hospitality. “We currently have a staff strength of 2,300 and we intend to hire 700 more in the coming year in areas like legal, IT, risk management and compliance, hospitality and marketing. Our focus earlier was just on loan disbursal and collection - now we want to offer a more meaningful and broader customer experience,” said Baskar Babu, CEO, Suryoday SFB.
 
 One measure of the efficacy of more-qualified personnel has been the success, MFIs have seen in selling cross-sector products such as insurance. Lately, CRISIL has been able to track insurance penetration on an index for up to 666 districts — based on data provided by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), MFIN and the Insurance Information Bureau of India (IIB). CRISIL said, “For the first time, the index includes contribution from life insurance following availability of data, which has made it a more comprehensive barometer.”
 
 “Policy measures such as the Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana, and steadfast focus on the unbanked regions have driven India’s financial inclusion agenda over the past 3 years. As many has 336 out of 666 districts have scored ‘Above-average’ on the CRISIL Inclusix index this time. The all-India CRISIL Inclusix score stood at 58 in fiscal 2016, compared with 50.1 in fiscal 2013,” said Ashu Suyash, MD, CRISIL.
 
 
 
