MUMBAI:   has grown by as much as 37% or 82 sq km since the last   in 2015. Of that, more than half (47 sq km) has been added in the Mumbai suburbs, Thane and Navi Mumbai alone.

 Mangrove cover in the state grew to 304 sq km in 2017 from 222 sq km in 2015, says the State of Forest Report 2017 released on Monday by the Forest Survey of India. Thane, including Navi Mumbai, has seen the highest increase within   at 31 sq km, followed by Raigad (29 sq km) and Mumbai (16 sq km).
 
 Maharashtra’s 82 sq km rise in mangrove cover is the highest growth for a state in India in the last two years. Across India, mangrove cover has increased by 181 sq km since 2015 and now stands at 4,921 sq km. After Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh has seen a growth of 37 sq km, Gujarat 33 sq km, Odisha 12 sq km and West Bengal 8 sq km.
 
  
 In all, Maharashtra now has 5% of the total mangrove cover across India and has climbed to 5th position in all-India rankings. The report attributes the growth in the state to plantation and regeneration of mangroves.
 
 The growth of mangroves on salt pan land where salt-making has stopped is good news. “This is a natural phenomenon. Mangroves must grow on the landward side,” said  , director, conservation, of the NGO Vanashakti.
 
 He raised a cautionary note. “If increase in mangroves is in the creeks, it is not good news at all. And we believe that is where the growth has happened. The mangroves will eventually choke the creeks and the entire sewage and storm water drainage system will go haywire,” he said.
 
 Maharashtra has no dense mangrove cover, but contributed 45% to the total mangrove growth across India. N Vasudevan, additional principal chief conservator of forests, mangrove cell, said the state has pockets that can be described as open mangroves with sparse coverage. He attributed the growth to greater awareness about the need for conservation of mangroves and better legal protection. Since 2015, mangroves on government land have been declared reserved forests.
 
 Vasudevan said there continues to be some destruction of mangroves on private land in Mumbai and Thane but the quantum and incidents of destruction has come down. “No incident of destruction now goes unnoticed. There are certain pockets where it regularly happens and we get prompt complaints,” he added.
 
 Stalin said the mangrove cell has done commendable work to protect the mangroves. “They are doing their work seriously and fortunately, the government is supportive of the mangrove cell,” he said.
 
