NEW DELHI:   president   has just won an in-house battle that his supporters wish had not happened in the first place.

 
 He has become the most-followed Congress leader on  , overtaking party MP and former international diplomat  .
 
 Rahul notched a following of 6.77 million as against Tharoor's 6.7 million recently. Though an ever-changing, dynamic activity, many believe it would only grow further in favour of the Congress chief and not seesaw back towards the Kerala MP.
 
 For Congress functionaries and neutral observers, Rahul's smaller social media footprint in comparison to a colleague was bound to be annoying given that he is the party chief.
 
 Twitter and other social media platforms are also a function of a leader's engagement with those forums, not necessarily embarrassing for anyone.
 
 And yet, as a Congress functionary remarked, a party chief is expected to have the highest following among colleagues since social media has become one of the parameters of assessment of popularity. "It matters in public perception," he observed.
 
 Reached for his reaction, Tharoor exuded a sense of elation. "With pleasure. It is only fitting. And as one who has been urging him for years to be on Twitter and to be himself there, I feel a certain sense of vindication," he told TOI.
 
 AICC's social media head   said Rahul is growing at a faster pace not only on Twitter but also on other platforms, like Facebook, which she said was a reflection of his sharply rising resonance with people.
 
 "It is because of Rahul Gandhi's tweets and the stances he is taking on issues of public importance. He is one person who is speaking truth to power. There is disillusionment on the streets and he is the only person resonating with the public. People are warming up to him," she said.
 
 It has been a tough battle. Savvy leaders have had a first-mover advantage while Rahul came on Twitter much later, and that too as "OfficeofRG". The handle was turned personal, "RahulGandhi", only on March 17, the day of the   plenary session which was to approve his election as Congress president.
 
 As he played catch-up in the digital space with opponents like Prime Minister  , who, at 42.3 million, has a following almost seven times higher than Rahul's, a social media strategist said the Congress chief often benefited when tweets about him were supplemented by popular handles like that of Tharoor and some others with a more diverse, if not higher, following.
 
 TOI had reported in September 2017 that Rahul added close to a million followers in two months — from 24.93 lakh in July to 34 lakh by September. Amid excitement over the spike as also his smart tweets, Rahul raised mirth on Twitter by posting a video of his pet dog "Pidi" as the brain "who tweets for me". 
 
 
