JODHPUR: Jodhpur will hold state’s first cadaveric international workshop on ultrasonic guided nerve blocking shoulder arthroscopy and arthroplasty on February 17 and 18. Leading international shoulder and elbow surgeons from UK will be holding training sessions in this two-day workshop on the specially prepared cadavers by the anatomy department of the S N   College.

 Principal of the medical college   said that this is first of its kind workshop where the demo surgery would be carried out on six cadavers or human bodies, made soft as alive human beings to ensure joint mobility.
 
 Adding further HoD (Anatomy)   said that special efforts were made in past 2 months to convert the donated stiff human bodies into soft bodies, which are called cadaver, for this workshop.
 
 “We put in various efforts and applied various chemical applications for this task and finally we succeeded in converting 8 bodies into cadavers in order to meet the requirement of this workshop on ultrasonic guided nerve block”, said Katariya.
 
 Orthgopaedist Kishor Raichandani said that a couple of years, one such workshop had failed in absence of cadavers as the surgery could not be carried out on stiff bodies.
 
 To be organized under the joint aegis of the departments of orthopaedics, anatomy and anaesthesia, this two-day workshop will have focus on shoulder injuries, which are very common these days.
 
 Explaining it further, anaesthetist   said that this workshop is unique in the sense that there was no need to make the patient unconscious and only a specific part is administered anaesthesia and block the nerve as instant measure ultrasonically.
 
 With success in turning the stiff bodies into cadavers, the department of anatomy is considering establishing a cadaver laboratory at the medical college in order to facilitate the workshops requiring live surgeries.
 
 According to Malviya, this was a big achievement for the college that by developing cadavers, path has been paved for live workshops to be made more effective and result oriented.
 
 
