THIRUVANANTHAPURAM/ ALAPPUZHA: With the Congress too announcing its candidate for the   earlier than usual, the constituency is all set to witness a fierce triangular fight once again.

 The   is waiting for the party high command to approve its choice, senior leader  , to make a formal announcement.
 
 Even though several leaders had evinced interest in contesting the bypoll, especially with LDF announcing Saji Cheriyan’s name, the KPCC focused on ‘winnability’ while making a choice.
 
 The Congress has high hopes of wresting the seat back from the LDF since they believe that there will be a consolidation of Hindu votes against the LDF candidate. Vijayakumar is known for his deep roots in the constituency and acceptance among the people. He is a functionary of   and is associated with the administration of a few major temples in the constituency.
 
 BJP candidate P S Sreedharan Pillai had made a big impact in the last election in which sitting Congress MLA P C Vishnunath was defeated. For the KPCC, a loss in the bypoll could trigger severe protests against the leadership.
 
 The CPM, meanwhile, is also yet to formally announce the candidature of Cherian who had contested twice from Chengannur earlier, but never could win.
 
 The KPCC political affairs committee which cleared Vijayakumar’s name on Thursday, observed that the bypoll should be seen as a semi-final before the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The leaders are learnt to have observed that if the Congress once again finishes third behind the BJP, it would then have serious impact in the Lok Sabha polls.
 
 The party will field senior leaders in all panchayats in the constituency to carry out house to house campaigns. Senior leader Oommen Chandy and KPCC chief M M Hassan were in Chengannur on Friday to oversee the preparations.
 
 “Chengannur bypoll result will be an assessment of both central and state governments,” Chandy said. “The Congress candidate was selected unanimously. UDF will win the bypoll,” he added.
 
