VADODARA: In one of the biggest robberies in the state in the recent past, Rs 3.5crore cash was robbed from the residence of the owner of a pharma unit in Ankleshwar town of Bharuch. Four robbers first sedated the pharma unit owner Mansukh Naran Radadiya (45), and his wife Sheetal and tied their nine-year-old son Neel before fleeing with cash kept in loft of the house on Friday late night.

 Radadiya stated that he had collected the cash from relative, friends and businessmen and kept record in a diary which was also missing. However, he did not specify for what purpose he had collected such a huge amount.
 
 The incident took place at the residence of Mansukh Naran Radadiya (45), who belongs to Mandalikpur in Jetpur taluka of Rajkot, but stays at   in Ankleshwar presently. He has stated in his complaint that he had moved to Ankleshwar for business in 1993.
 
 Radadiya was present at his residence along with his wife Sheetal and so Neel when the incident took place. He stated in the police complaint that he was tired after attending a wedding function and distributing invites for a religious function at his village and had gone to sleep with his son while his wife was taking care of chores at home.
 
 According to the complaint, Radadiya realised that someone had put something on his face and was trying to suffocate him by holding him with his neck. Radadiya said that he fell unconscious after this. When he gained consciousness, he saw that his nine-year-old son was trying to cut open the cloth tied to his face. He said that he was lying on the floor of the room and could smell chloroform.
 
 Radadiya further claimed that he realised that something was out of place and his son too told him that thieves had come to their house. He raised an alarm at this time and called his neighbours. His wife Sheetal told him that when she was folding clothes in the living room someone came from behind and covered her face with a cloth as another person held something like a pipe to her head. 
 
 She remembered being dragged to their bedroom by someone. Neel claimed that the pipe-like object was a small gun. He also mentioned that some smell was coming from the cloth being pressed on his mother’s face.
 
 Neel further told Radadiya that one of the thieves started removing things that were tied in clothes from the loft. Neel and Sheetal were tied using clothes by the robbers. Neel had managed to untie himself and he then freed others.
 
 According to Radadiya, he had tied Rs 3.5crore cash in four different clothes and kept them on the loft. The robbers took away the cash along with a suitcase, Sheetal’s handbag and the mobile phone used by Radadiya.
 
 
