GURUGRAM; Days after getting a green signal from Huda, the district administration on Thursday paid Rs 14.29 crore as compensation to owners of 3,357 square yard land in Sukhrali village along the Delhi-Gurugram Expressway. 

 The delay in acquisition of the land had held up the work of widening the service road, part of NHAI’s   junction improvement project.   had constructed a flyover on the service road of the expressway at Iffco Chowk to ensure smooth flow of traffic going towards Rajiv Chowk. 
 
 The next step was to widen the service road to unclog Iffco Chowk. The land parcel, which has several eateries, was obstructing the widening of the   on the Delhi-Jaipur side of the expressway at Iffco Chowk. 
 
 After award of compensation, land owners Mahender Singh and Joginder Singh, who had submitted a representation to Huda in February requesting release of compensation for the land acquired by NHAI, said, “We got the compensation and will now vacate the land.” 
 
 TOI had reported on April 6 that the district administration had sought a no objection certificate (NOC) from Huda for releasing the compensation amount to the land owners. 
 
 “We finally paid the compensation to the land owners today (Thursday) and they have given an affidavit, confirming they will vacate the land within a few days,” said sub-divisional-magistrate (SDM) Sanjeev Singhla. He added the highway authority will now have a free hand to complete the project on this stretch. NHAI is executing the project of improving junctions and building underpasses, at three prime locations in the city — Iffco Chowk, Rajiv Chowk and Signature Towers — all of them along the expressway. For the above mentioned land parcel, NHAI had, in January 2018, deposited Rs 14.29 crore with the district administration for disbursement. 
 
 Singhla said earlier they had written to Huda for their consent. “We received the authority’s consent to release the fund, following which the compensation was paid. NHAI, which had acquired the land had already given the amount to the district administration,” Singhla said. 
 
 Elaborating about the need for taking Huda’s consent for releasing the compensation, Singhla said the land in question was acquired by Huda to develop the sector. 
 
 This land acquisition was challenged by land owners before Punjab and Haryana high court in 1998. After years of litigation, the high court in November 2007 had ordered the land to be released, except for those parcels of land covered by public utilities and services. The order was challenged by Huda in the Supreme Court, which re-directed the case to the high court. In 2012, the high court restored the petition.
 
  In the meantime, NHAI had started work on junction improvement and underpasses at the three locations.
 
 
