Mohali: The proposal of Mohali Municipal Corporation to tie up with Chandigarh Transport Undertaking ( ) to run a local bus service in the city is facing controversy. The project, which is yet a proposal, is being criticised by a local MLA, mayor and councillors.

 While MLA, mayor and councillors are demanding a separate city bus service project for the city, the municipal corporation here and Gmada have already scrapped the project after terming it as non-viable. Before getting scrapped, the Rs 20-crore city bus service project remained in limbo for 10 years.
 
 MC commissioner Sandeep Hans had proposed to tie up with the CTU for running local buses in Mohali and its adjoining villages.
 
 Hans said, after holding a meeting with the CTU officials and seeing their interest in plying buses in Mohali, he had prepared a plan, which could not be materialised due to some oppositions from an MLA, mayor and councillors.
 
 As the CTU is already plying buses in Kharar, Kurali, Banur and other nearby places, it can also be used to facilitate internal roads of Mohali,” he added.
 
 “We have been trying to initiate a city bus service for the last 10 years but the plans never materialised. Last year, the MC house had approved 14 local bus routes for which the approval from the Punjab government is awaited. The MC had plans to spend approximately Rs 20 crore in the first phase. However, now we think that why such money be spent when we have an option at our disposal in the form of CTU,” Hans said
 
 Hans added that the CTU has been catering to Panchkula and even goes up to Kalka. It also serves some neighbouring towns of Mohali.
 
 Meanwhile, MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu said that he had sent a proposal to revive Phase VIII old bus stand.
 
 “We will make efforts to revive the old bus stand. This bus stand will be used for a local bus service. A proposal has already been moved for approval with the state ministry. This bus stand is a heritage and we will not let it die,” Sidhu said.
 
 “The route plan has been sent to the director of state transport, for checking its feasibility before the start of the operations. The reply in this regard is awaited. As far as partnering with the CTU is concerned, we will decide on that later,” said mayor Kulwant Singh.
 
 “The MC is all set to purchase 200 buses out of which a batch of 50 buses will be purchased at the earliest,” the mayor said.
 
 
