TRICHY: With the KAP Viswanatham government medical college (KAPVGMC) attached to Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) getting approval for the postgraduate course in ophthalmology this academic year, there have been demands to improve the infrastructure of the department by providing more space. 

 The medical college hospital had received the Medical Council of India’s nod for two postgraduate (MS) seats in ophthalmology department in the academic year 2018-19. The apex body for medical education had awarded recognition for the two seats provided the department had a 30-bedded facility. In MGMGH, the ophthalmology department has been functioning with 32 beds, outpatient ward, speciality clinics for glaucoma, squint, cornea, retina and retinopathy of prematurity. There were also two operation theatres, an eye bank and several equipment besides a team of ophthalmologists. However, all these facilities were cramped in an old building leaving very small space for speciality clinics. 
 
 The lack of free space for these clinics in the department in the hospitals reduced the chances of providing specialised treatment to needy patients thus forcing several patients to prefer private hospitals. A senior doctor on the condition of anonymity said that the patients preferred private hospitals when it came to special care because of the lack of some facilities in the government hospitals.
 
 As far as MGMGH was concerned, it required some more important equipment and facilities at the speciality clinics. In   district, ten government hospitals had been functioning in taluks. The treatment for glaucoma and some other eye disorders was not available in these places except the headquarters government hospital at   where the eye tension can be checked. The ophthalmology department had also sent a proposal for the extension of the building. 
 
 Dean of MGMGH, Dr  , said that the construction of one more floor on the existing building was on the cards. “The speciality clinics have been functioning regularly. The process to start the expansion of the building will begin soon,” the dean told TOI.
 
 
