CHANDIGARH: City MP Kirron Kher, on Monday, said till paid parking lots are not turned into smart parking, there should not be any hike in the paid parking fee. 

 Kher lambasted   for politicising the issue and said all the controversies are created by them only.
 
 “Even as the matter falls in the domain of the municipal corporation ( ) and it is quite competent to take the decision on the issue, I personally feel that without turning the existing paid parking lots smart parking, the hike is not justified. We should not put financial burden on the public. Also, a hike in such a short span of period is not right,” Kher said while talking to TOI.
 
 Criticising the Congress party for “politicising the parking issue and asking for the   inquiry,” Kher said all the problems in the city were created by Congress when they were in power. Now, her party has to face the public ire. But they will solve all the issues properly, she said. 
 
 “People, who are talking of CBI inquiry, especially the former city MP  , have all themselves faced CBI inquiry and everything is in the public domain. Their leader is behind the bars on corruption issue. I wanted to stay away from such things, but it is the Congress, who are provocative. Controversial issues like shifting of garbage dumping ground, JP-run garbage processing plant came up during their regime,” Kher added.
 
 Since the hike in the paid parking lot issue has reached to its height, the municipal commissioner has formed five committees of the MC, led by sub-divisional officers (SDOs) and city mayor asked Finance and   (F&CC) to inspect the committees. The formed teams have already started gathering information by inspecting the paid parking lots.
 
 Since, the general house meeting of the MC has been advanced and called on April 16, F&CC’s report will be discussed in detail, while SDOs will send their report to the municipal commissioner. The officers and political representatives are at loggerheads over the issue. This is becuase the mayor had initially asked to bring the matter to the house, while the officers on the other hand issued orders to hike the paid parking charges, terming the hike as per the terms and conditions of the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) signed between MC and the private company managing the lots.
 
 
