NAGPUR/NEW DELHI/BHOPAL: Though literature and drama are part of   Std X English subject, its board exam on Monday provided enough classroom drama for everyone.

 Printing related errors in the question paper caused quite a stir among students and teachers leading to wastage of time. According to teachers, the first question did not have the lines aligned properly which led to major confusion. The second problem was with a 10-mark question in which option was not given, as per the format.
 
 Charu  , English teacher at   ( ), said, “Students were asked to find certain synonyms from a passage. Their hint, apart from the word printed, was the paragraph number in which the synonym could be found. But because of realignment of the paragraphs, the numbering was messed up.” This meant in reality the synonym was in paragraph no 1, but the question paper mentioned paragraph no 2. Sanjeev Sinha, a parent, said his daughter had a tough time answering the question. “This mistake was there for all words in the question. It left children baffled and CBSE should compensate the kids for this,” he said. 
 
 CBSE’s senior spokesperson Rama Sharma did not respond to calls till the time of going to press. 
 
 Students were left to fend for themselves as no clarification came from CBSE at least in Nagpur centres. A student who appeared for the exam at a   area school, said, “Everyone was confused and the teacher in our class did not clarify. Then a lot of us used our own analytical skills to deduce that paragraph number 1 and 2 were in fact a single paragraph. Our biggest hint was that these paragraphs were only three lines long, while all others were of least nine sentences.”
 
 The next problem was with the last question in Section C. Gulati said, “The format is that the 10 mark question has two options. But the word ‘OR’ was not printed leading students to believe that both sub-questions have to be answered. It was clarified by the CBSE during the exam itself to read the two sub-questions as optional, as according to format only one had to be answered.” Another error, though minor and spotted easily, was there in question no. 9. Gulati, said, “The question printed uses the word ‘expatiate’, whereas it should have been ‘expiate’. Both words exist and wrong usage here changes the meaning of the entire sentence. The reason we all spotted the mistake immediately was that the question was straight out of the NCERT book.” 
 
 The errors in this paper has led to a Bhopal-based CBSE student to start an online petition seeking CBSE’s intervention. Garima Bargava started the petition on change.org and a number of students were signing the petition to impress upon central board of school education to look into the matter.
 
 
