
 
 KOLKATA : Dankuni resident Sanjay Roy’s family is happy that their allegation of medical negligence by on-duty doctors at Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals has been vindicated by the West Bengal Medical Council (WBMC). Roy’s widow Rubi and mother   were present at the council’s office during the final hearing.
 
 “The running from pillar to post for justice has finally paid off. It is a victory of the right over the wrong. But we wish the punishment was harsher,” Rubi told TOI.
 
 
 The young widow had been appealing to several bodies, including the police, for justice and had even knocked the doors of chief minister Mamata Banerjee right after her husband died. The CM had even given a job to the Class XII passout in the state tourism department, which she took up in March 2017.
 
 “In addition to medical negligence, we had to face a lot of taunts and humiliation from the hospital. Who goes to the hospital with certificate of fixed deposit to clear dues? We were compelled to do so as they were not allowing us to take my husband to SSKM Hospital. We pray that no family goes through this kind of horror.”
 
 The hospital later decided to refund Rs 8 lakh — on ‘humanitarian’ ground — that the family paid through their nose. But the family refused to accept the cheque.
 
 “Though the punishment could have been harsher, we are happy that the doctors have been tainted. We are also happy that Sanjay has finally got justice,” said friend  , who stood by Sanjay’s finally right from day one.
 
 Sanjay’s father   could not make it to the council’s office due to ill health. He wept when the verdict was conveyed to him over the phone by Rubi.
 
 Sanjay was the only earning member of the family and left behind his aged parents, wife and a son.“Only we know what we went through immediate after my husband passed away. But   stood by us. If it wasn’t for her, the family would have been left in the lurch. Also, many from the locality supported us in our fight. We are exploring options to appeal to higher authority for a harsher punishment,” said Rubi.
 
