Thedi Thirivom Vaa (Come, let us search) is a mere 96-page book — a compact one with colour photographs. A quick glimpse reveals that it contains a lot of information for its size, on local history. But what makes the book unique is that it has been penned by a group of school students, aged between 14 and 15, from a government school in Ramanathapuram district.

 The book is the culmination of archeological findings made by the students, as part of the ‘Namma Ooru Varalaru’ initiative, started by their school’s heritage club. The heritage club was founded by Suresh Sudha Azhagan Memorial Government Higher Secondary School at Thirupullani, after an order by the state government. Under Namma Ooru Varalaru, students were motivated to find and document local history of surrounding places.
 
 Heritage club convener, V Rajaguru, also the school’s English teacher says, he was surprised by the details collected by students in their essays on their findings. "They had collated every single detail starting from folklore to village deities." Impressed by their writings, Rajaguru decided to compile the essays into a book.
 
 The book was released on Saturday by C Santhalingam, former archaeologist and secretary of Pandianadu History Research Centre. 
 
 "It is surprising that a group of school children have come out with a book on local history. I appreciate their efforts and motivation by their teacher, Rajaguru," Santhalingam said, adding that all school students should participate in such initiatives, to learn their local lore and heritage.
 
 The contents of book include documentation of etymology of village names, local deities, folklore, places of worship, important festivals and unique artefacts. For instance, M Abinaya, a Class X student researched on the ‘kazhumaram’ (spears used for execution in ancient times) she discovered at her father’s ancestral village, Pallapacheri. Abinaya has also written about Muthuveerappan, a local hero after whom her village Muthuveerappanvalasai is named.
 
 In her research on her village, Pokkaranenthal, P Aparna documented details about the medicinal plant offered to the village deity. M Visali documented all the water bodies in her village while S Hasina Begum wrote about a local ‘dargah’.
 
 Many have discovered artefacts too. During her search for antiquities, Visali found 100-year-old Malaysian coins in her house. The old palm script she found in her house has details of ‘moi’ (‘gift of money’ given during functions). One of the students stumbled upon an ‘Eealam’ coin published by Chola king Rajaraja.
 
 After passing out from school, the students plan to join their teacher in historical research at Ramanathapuram Archaeological Research Foundation, a history research foundation that Rajaguru runs.
 
 "The entire effort started after Aburar Ahmed, a student discovered a Jain relic at Koraikuttam in 2012, indicating that the locality had a lot to explore. When asked to study their localities, students came out with voluminous information, so we thought of publishing pamphlets about their findings first. When we started collating them, the information was a lot and we ended up publishing a book," says Rajaguru.
 
 
