LUDHIANA: A revelation by the   should make the city authorities sit up and act in earnest. He says maximum number of complaints that his office receives are against building violations, with Ludhiana topping the list.

 Punjab Lokpal Chief Justice S K Mittal (retd), who was here to address long-pending cases pertaining to illegal constructions, said, “Of the complaints we received in the past one year, most were against building violations. And the highest number of these were reported from Ludhiana, followed by Jalandhar.”
 
 While citing the example of fire and subsequent collapse of a plastic factory in   on November 20, 2017, he said, “The building collapsed as not a single norm was followed at the time of its construction. Nowadays, people first construct a building and then get it regularised. Hardly anyone gets the building plan approved at the initial stage. Instead, they prefer to pay fee later to get it regularised with its violations.”
 
 On the rampant practice, the Lokpal said, “There is lack of staff to check ongoing construction work in big cities, like Ludhiana. Besides, the staffers are not dedicated towards their duty.”
 
 Some of the guidelines are also being ignored. “There is a rule of depositing an advance labour cess of 1% before starting any construction work. But not a single person is following the mandate in the industrial hub,” he added.
 
 While warning the erring officials, he said strict action would be taken against the lax municipal corporation staffers.
 
 MC assistant town planner (headquarters) Surinder Singh   said, “The building branch officials keep a check on violations. But we have only six building inspectors against the requirement of 50. So at times, violations go unnoticed.”
 
 MC commissioner  , too, blamed staff shortage for increasing number of illegal constructions. “We have urged secretary, local bodies, to provide more staff as public work is also getting affected.” 
 
 It is for the first time the Lokpal came to the city for a hearing. The session aimed at creating direct connect with complainants and officers and check records on the spot. Earlier, the hearing used to take place in Chandigarh.
 
 
