KOLHAPUR: Hawkers carrying out businesses after 2014 will not be rehabilitated and receive benefits under Street Vendors Livelihood Protection Act. However they will be surveyed, clarified the   Municipal Corporation ( ) on Monday.

 The KMC will carry out fresh survey of hawkers. Based on the survey, hawking and no-hawking zones will be marked and rehabilitation programme will be carried out.
 
 The last survey was carried out in 2012. After the decision to freshly survey hawkers, associations and unions claimed that the number of hawkers must have doubled since the last survey. They should also be rehabilitated and receive benefits as per the act.
 
 However, civic authorities claimed that the survey of hawkers will be carried out, as per the state directions. Only hawkers carrying out businesses since before 2014 will be considered for rehabilitation.
 
 As per the act, KMC along with rehabilitation will also provide sanitation, electricity and water supply facilities to hawkers in hawking zones.
 
 Pramod Barale, chief estate officer of KMC said, “As per the directions, hawkers operating after 2014 will be evicted. We are going to carry out the survey through a private agency and the details gathered from hawkers will be uploaded on a cellphone app provided by the government.
 
 Barale added, “We will scrutinise the receipts of hawking fees paid by hawkers. If they have any proof that they have been carrying out their business prior to 2014, they will be considered for rehabilitation.”
 
 The hawker associations are up in arms against the civic administration. The leaders of hawker associations claim that they have not been consulted before the decision to carry out fresh survey of hawkers was taken. They claim a meeting of town vending committee has not been called in the last few months.
 
 Samir Nadaf, secretary of   said, “The KMC is trying to proceed unilaterally. It should consult the town vending committee before undertaking a survey. The last survey had several discrepancies which we had reported to the KMC. We are following up with higher authorities to convene a meeting of the committee so that all issues pertaining to hawking policy can be discussed and resolved to avoid any conflict in the future.”
 
 
