Chennai: A day after reporting how 21 people in Uttar Pradesh got infected with   due to use of unsafe medical device, TOI has sourced government records that show 20,592 people across the country contracted HIV due to blood transfusions since 2007.

  (Naco) data shows Gujarat has the largest number of HIV positive cases due to blood transfusion. In the state, which is above national average in terms of prevalence and seventh in the country in general prevalence, nearly one in every five cases reported is recorded as caused due to blood transfusion. Tamil Nadu, which stands 11th in general prevalence, has reported 1,134 cases due to blood transfusion, coming sixth in the category. The data is based on information provided by patients at Integrated Counselling and Testing Centres (ICTCs) run by the National   Control Organisation (Naco). Experts said that there could be misreporting as patients tend to give   as the reason to hide unsafe sex.
 
 Doctors said a person could contract HIV through blood transfusion if the blood bank is not equipped with fourth generation (ELISA) testing kits.
 
 “Third generation kits used in government health centres have the ability to detect the infection after 8-12 weeks. Fourth generation kits can detect it as early as from the fourth week,” said Dr A Sathish Kumar from Solidarity and Action Against HIV Infection in India (SAATHI), an organisation working with HIV patients across the country.
 
 There have been instances where individuals have donated blood without knowing that they are HIV positive. The fourth generation kit detects infections in the window period and blood donated by them can be rejected straight away, said a former AIDS Control Society Official. “Naco has been allocated close to Rs1,600 crore. Authorities should procure the latest testing kits to reduce chances of HIV transmission through transfusion,” he said.
 
 Kerala has recently (January 2018) announced that these state-of-the-art devices would soon be installed in its hospitals. This decision was taken after a nine-year-old patient at Regional Cancer Centre, Thiruvananthapuram tested positive for HIV after blood transfusion . 
 
 On the other hand, most private medical labs in the country are equipped with these latest kits and charge Rs 300 - Rs 1,000 for HIV screening.
 
 
