PATNA: The state   on Wednesday gave its administrative sanction to the reconstruction of the state highway (SH)-70 in Gaya district and construction of another road-cum-bridge in Saran district, involving an expenditure of Rs 71.86 crore.

 The reconstruction of 37.3km SH-70 — Gaya, Fatehpur, Gopi Mor, Murli section of the road — involves widening of the road and construction of a bridge at a cost of over Rs 47 crore.
 
 On the other hand, the 6.375km road between Tejpura and Gaura Bazaar in Saran district, including a bridge, will be constructed at an expenditure of over Rs 24 crore.
 
 The cabinet also okayed the allotment of Rs 58.52 crore for the Bihar Administrative Reforms Mission Society for 2017-18 and gave its approval to the Bihar Public Service Commission (BPSC) to start the process for advertising the appointment of five assistant programmers on temporary basis.
 
 The cabinet gave one-year extension to the services of 24 assistant teachers and 58 lecturers functioning on vacant posts at the state engineering colleges, state polytechnics and state women’s polytechnics in anticipation of the regular appointments to be made through BPSC.
 
 The cabinet gave its nod to the creation of 37 new posts for the management of hostels for minority community students.
 
 It also okayed the government’s decision to create posts of 14 sub-registrars, night guards and orderlies for 14 permanent offices of sub-registrar at Pakridayal (East Champaran), Neemchak Bathani and Khijarsarai (Gaya), Tarapur (Munger), Balia (Begusarai), Piro (Bhojpur), Mohania (Kaimur), Motipur (Muzaffarpur), Raxaul (East Champaran), Simri Bakhtiarpur (Saharsa), Rajauli (Nawada), Suryagarha (Munger), Raghunathpur (Siwan), Sindhwalia (Gopalganj) and Phulwarisharif (Patna). These offices are currently functioning on temporary basis. 
 
 The cabinet gave its approval to the restoration of the services of the then sub-registrar, Kamal Ashraf, in Bhagalpur district in the prohibition and excise department. It also sanctioned the fixation of pension of Lukhi Devi alias Dukhia Devi who was earlier working in the home department.
 
 
