CHANDIGARH: Newly-appointed in-charge of Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Punjab affairs   will interact with party’s state leadership on January 12. The Delhi deputy CM’s visit follows party’s Kharar legislator Kanwar Sandhu writing to the former about party workers feeling let down at the way three nominations were made to Rajya Sabha last week.

 Party sources said Sisodia would not just try to placate the discontent among a section of party leaders but also try and boost the morale of cadres after the rout in Gurdaspur   bypoll and civic body elections. “The issue of Rajya Sabha nominations would figure in the feedback that the party leadership would give to Sisodia. Besides, this would be his maiden visit to Chandigarh after taking over as Punjab in-charge. A plan to strengthen the party would also be discussed,” said a party leader.
 
 Sandhu has pointed out that many party leaders are highly critical of the nominations of   and N D Gupta and there is a feeling that the seats should have gone to party’s senior leaders, who have been at the forefront. The party’s NRI supporters are also critical of Sanjay Singh’s nomination, which comes after the party’s failure to win the Punjab assembly polls under his command in the state.
 
 Incidentally, Sanjay was the in-charge of Punjab affairs during the assembly elections last year and had to face criticism for the party’s below expectations performance. AAP had emerged as the principal opposition party by winning 20 seats in the state.
 
 Even though SAD-BJP and AAP blamed ruling Congress for unfair practices, AAP failed to win even a single ward in Jalandhar, Patiala and Amritsar corporation elections last month. It won just a single ward in Bholath (assembly constituency of AAP MLA Sukhpal Khaira) in Kapurthala district, out of the total 414 wards. Before this, it had finished third in the   byelection in October, with its candidate Maj Gen (retd) Suresh Khajuria getting only 23,579 votes.
 
 
 
 
 AAP’s state wing has also called a meeting of its social media volunteers in the state. They will be interacting with AAP’s Punjab co president Aman Arora. The party plans to infuse new life into its social media presence in the state.
 
 
