LUCKNOW: Showing exemplary courage, a 30-year-old tractor-trolley driver jumped into the Gomti and rescued a girl who had plunged into the river with an intention to commit suicide.

 Saved just in time, the 17-year-old girl wanted to end her life because she was worried about scoring badly in her class XII UP Board exam results expected on Sunday.
 
 The incident occurred around 1.30pm on the bridge by 1090 crossing on Saturday.
 
 The sight of a girl jumping into the river drew attention of those present but no one could muster the courage to rescue her.
 
 A crowd had begun to gather and even commuters stopped by.
 
 Prem Kumar, who was driving his tractor-trolley carrying mud, saw the crowd and stopped on the bridge .
 
 Without losing time, Kumar jumped into the river and reached the drowning girl, showing expert swimming skills. By this time, police officers from the area had also reached the spot. Together with some onlookers, they suspended a rope for Kumar and the girl to climb up on.
 
 CO ( )   said that the girl from   had left home in the afternoon and reached riverfront around 1.30pm.
 
 According to the police, she took the extreme step because she was apprehensive about her class XII UP Board results, which are expected on Sunday. The girl’s parents were informed and she was admitted to Lohia hospital.
 
 The officer also gave Rs 500 to Kumar as a reward for his for show of courage.
 
 
 
 “I t feels good to help people; saving the life of the girl gave me inner peace,” said  , who was surrounded by people congratulating him after he came out of the river.
 
 Employed with the irrigation department, Kumar told media persons that he hailed from   and everybody in his village knew swimming.
 
 “My father says that climbing, driving and swimming are vital to our daily life and everybody must know these three activities. Unfortunately, we could not study but my parents always taught me righteous ways like helping women, children and old people. As a result, when I saw the girl jumping. It came naturally to me and I jumped into the river without any second thoughts.”
 
 
 
 
