Ajmer: Dozens of women in Chaichaikhera village of Bhinai district late on Sunday night blocked off the way of a Dalit groom who was riding a horse for his barat procession. Women also threw mud on those who were participating in the procession and threatened them.

 The women claimed that in their village only deities are supposed to ride horses and no groom of any community can do such a thing. Later police arrested seven women for disturbing peace and produced them in SDM court where they were later released on bond. The village remained tensed as they alleged that Dalits have broken the ritual of their village. To maintain peace police has been deployed in the village.
 
 According to a source, Mukesh Berwa had his wedding at Bijaynager on Monday and the barat procession started on Sunday night for which he climbed the horse while relatives and friends walked with him. “As the barat reached the street to main village, about 70 women of the Gujjar community gathered to stop the barat, forcing the groom to step down,” said the complaint to police.
 
 Mukesh was hurled down and when relatives objected, the women started throwing mud on them and even stones. When news of the incident spread in the village both communities came face to face to fight on this issue. Women of Gujjar community said that only their deity have the right to move on horse in the village and not even a groom of their community could ride a horse inside the village, “That community knows this fact well but they had done this intentionally to hurt our sentiments,” said a Gujjar woman.
 
 Police were informed and additional SP Ravinder Singh along with a team reached the spot and took out the process of barat securely and Mukesh rode the horse in the village. Agitating women tried to stop the procession again in police security and police arrested Indra, Kishni, Ganga, Bhuri, Chuki and Mnbhar under section 151 of CRPC.
 
 Later the procession went peacefully and barat went to Bijaynagar. But the incident created tension in the village and on Monday morning many Gujjar leaders gathered in the village and condemned the incident, “We are not against the Dalit sitting on horse but we have the ritual that only deity of our community could sit on horse and ride in the village, even our children walk with horse inside the village,” said Mahender Singh Gujjar.
 
 
