By:Kavita Gupta Sabharwal

 Over the next two months many students will face a ‘final’ exam. Children will view them as something to be suffered and survived. Parents will go along with the tuition industry or lockingdown their kids because they feel they have no choice. Policymakers will advocate avoiding testing because useful testing is hard. And schools will continue to perfect teaching to the test. But I’d like to make the case that if education needs to shift from knowing to learning – google knows everything – we need to change the what, when and how of our exam system.
 
 What: Our exams test memory; they need to test concepts, skills, attitudes, and understanding. Memories are indeed built through repetition and reinforcement but memories are like interlinked chains. Content is forgotten but concepts are remembered because we remember things by what they are associated with, not by what they are. We remember what things do, how they work, but often forget what they are called. We remember stories, but forget names and dates easily. While testing children, we also need to assess the quality of teaching in our classrooms, and the readiness of children for learning.
 
 
  Our exams need to become assessments of learning (summative assessments that certify and report children’s learning to parents), assessments for learning (formative assessments that enable teachers to evaluate and advance student learning), and assess-
 
 
 ments as learning (for students to reflect and adjust their thinking and learning). Testing must be age appropriate. Early and continuous testing of reading and math levels is important; children need to learn to read so they can read to learn and math is a spiraling subject - gaps in concepts make later understanding difficult. But testing of abstract sciences content must only come in middle school.
 
 
  Our exams are an event; they need to be a process. Children have a lot of time through the year and spend 15% of their productive lives in schools. When children are judged at one stroke, they often don’t even know how to improve their performance, without continuous and constructive feedback. An education needs to combine academic abilities with attitudes. Besides auditing, continuous,   builds perseverance and ethics. We need to rebalance the ratio of continuous to year-end assessment for final scores to not only focus on learning at a point in time but progress over time.
 
 A debate about our exam system is also important because of stress and one-sizefits all.   causes an amygdala hijack and is important for response to life threatening situations but doesn't help with building memories (as evidenced by us blanking out on an accident). Long term stress on the other hand, literally excites our brain cells to death reducing our ability to think.
 
  Stress is terrible for   and a new assessment methodology should replace two months of pressure cooker ratta (mugging or memorizing) and eight months of ‘chill maro’ in our classrooms and homes. Our final written exam format works for a certain kind of child, learner, writer and thinker; but many of our kids may understand the content well without being good at a  . Trends of automation, machine learning and changing jobs and careers suggest that the aim of education is producing self-motivated lifelong learners. Consequently, testing must be about relaxed minds, empowered kids, and affirmation. Not stressed minds, overcontrolled kids and rejection.
 
 Prime Minister Modi last week gave great advise in his book ‘Exam Warriors’   to ‘compete-with yourself’ and to ‘be your own anchor-celebrate your strengths’. The exam debate shouldn't be about having or not having them but about good and bad assessments. We need to test more but differently because learning metrics are the starting point for improving learning. Data must be used by teachers, school managements and policy makers to improve schools, progress systems to higher order skills and think about student readiness, teacher skills and management quality. 
 
 Measuring can improve equity by revealing hidden exclusions since lack of learning is often invisible, making it impossible for families and communities to exercise influence when they intuitively sense their children are not progressing. Einstein once said that if you judge a fish by its ability to climb a tree, it will live its life believing it is stupid. We all know that teaching, schooling and testing isn’t always learning. But since change can’t happen this month, a reminder to our kids – It’s only an exam, not a report card of who you are. Good luck and god speed!
 
 The writer is managing trustee, Neev Academy
 
