LUDHIANA: Two days after three members of a family were killed by unidentified miscreants in   of Samrala, police are yet to get a lead in the case, even as it has come to the fore that the head of the family had financial transactions with many persons. As per police officials, the head of the family might have believed in supernatural things, because of which he had allegedly used the services of tantriks to drive away the negative influence on the lives of his family members, including his wife.

 On Friday afternoon,   (45), who worked as a guard in a factory; his wife 42-year-old Gurmeet Kaur, and younger son   (22) — who originally belonged to Mirpur village in   district — were found dead at three separate places in their rented house in Chehlan village. Samrala police had later registered a case of murder against unidentified accused into the matter.
 
 Police officials said after selling 11 acres of land in his native village, Sukhdev had lent money on credit to two of his relatives in Bhamiyan and Hargana villages. They added that Sukhdev would also buy clothes from Ludhiana and sell them.
 
 Cops said the deceased had a house in a large area (around 12 biswah) in his native village, but due to suspicion, he would live in various places outside his village, like Morinda, Doraha, and Nawanshahr. They added that he suspected some bad influence on his family, because of which his wife had started remaining unwell after selling the land, his son had fallen from the roof, and his elder son could not go to Germany, even though he was trying hard for it.
 
 Police officials said there were indications that some tantrik might have visited the house, as there was a blanket lying on the floor. Meanwhile, police officers investigating the matter said they were yet to get evidence leading to identification of the accused. “We are investigating the matter from various angles, but so far, the accused have not been identified,” said superintendent of police (SP) detective Jasvir Singh. He added that there was no CCTV around the area.
 
 Police officials said there were four to five link roads around the village, and the police were trying to procure CCTV footage from there to dig out clues into the matter. They added that the police had also lifted records of the mobile phones being used in the area at the time of the incident, and were scanning them. The police officer said the case, as of now, is a blind one with no clue at all. He added that the call records of the trio were scanned by the police, but that has not yielded much.
 
 
