Tuticorin/Kanyakumari: A total of 237 sovereigns of gold jewellery and 10kg silver were burgled in two separate incidents that took place in Kanyakumari and Tuticorin districts on Friday. The Kanyakumari and Tuticorin district police estimated the value of the stolen valuables at more than Rs 60 lakh. In one of the incidents, burglars decamped with 100 sovereigns of gold jewellery and 10kg silver from a jewellery outlet at Ettayapuram near Kovilpatti in Tuticorin district on Friday night. They committed the crime by drilling a hole into the wall that separates the outlet and a lodge. The outlet, Vijayalakshmi Jewellery belonging to one G Venkatesh Raja of Periya Kinatru Street in Ettayapuram who is also the vice-president of the local traders union, is located in a commercial complex opposite the Ettayapuram government hospital. A private lodge is located behind the complex. On Saturday morning, public noticed one of the rooms in the lodge open and a hole drilled on the wall. They informed the Ettayapuram police who found out that the hole led to the jewellery outlet, and informed Venkatesh. When Venkatesh rushed to the outlet, he found the metal safe in which the gold jewellery was kept cut open using a welding machine and 100 sovereigns gold jewellery and 10kg of silver stolen. Burglars had also allegedly taken away the CCTV cameras and the hard disk from the shop, making it difficult to identify them. The value of the stolen jewellery was estimated at more than Rs 28 lakh. The incident left traders shocked as 60 sovereigns of gold jewellery were burgled from another jewellery outlet close by two months ago and the accused are still at large. Police suspect the hand of the same gang in Friday night’s burglary. In another incident, unidentified men decamped with 137 sovereigns of gold jewellery and Rs 26,000 in cash from the house of a retired Indian Air Force official at Karavilai village in Villukuri near Eraniel in Kanyakumari district on Friday morning. Police said that the house belonged to Venu, 60, who was living with his family. According to police, Venu went to a private hospital in Nagercoil where his daughter was undergoing treatment. On returning home, he found the back door of the house open and the almirahs in which he had the valuables damaged and open. A case has been registered. 