NAGPUR: Differing opinion between various experts over tranquillizing operation to capture problem tigress in Pandharkawda in Yavatmal has led the National Tiger Conservation Authority ( ) to ask that the operation be put on hold.

 NTCA move follows a report by Dr HS Prayag, a forensic science expert, and two other wildlife vets giving views different from what the local forest officials felt. These vets were invited to monitor and tranquillize the tigress between December 29, 2017, and January 6, 2018.
 
 Besides, a complaint has also been lodged with NTCA member-secretary   by Mumbai-based dentist Dr   on December 29 stating there was no serious ground monitoring of tigers in the division.
 
 Dr Subramaniam pointed out that most of the nine human kills by tigers in Pandharkawda forest were chance encounters. “There will be no future tiger conservation if tigers are eliminated or removed for human needs,” she pointed out.
 
 Moreover, the reports submitted to FDCM divisional manager Vinay Phunse by Dr Sunil Bawaskar and Dr Ravikant Khobragade that the problem tigress was suspected to be pregnant considering the camera trap images have left forest official completely flaggerbasted. The reports also pointed out politics between NGOs.
 
 Dr Prayag in his report to NTCA stated that the death scene investigation showed less preference and involvement of forensic science professionals in collection, packing, preservation of the crime scene and samples.
 
 “This has resulted in different findings by Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad, and   ( ), Bengaluru, which indicate involvement of more than one animal in attacks,” the report reveals.
 
 These reports reached NTCA which stopped the tranquillizing process until further orders. According to Pandharkawda deputy conservator of forest (DyCF) KM Abharna, NTCA and WII team members will visit the spot this week to discuss issues and seek scientific reports.
 
 “I’m really surprised how Mumbai-based dentist who, without understanding the ground realities and never visiting the spot, reached her conclusions. NTCA has been told problem tigress is pregnant and hence asked to stop tranquillizing the animal,” Abharna said.
 
 “Withholding operation can create law and order problem in case of any further attack on humans. We have called meeting of local committee on Tuesday constituted as per NTCA rules on Tuesday to seek their opinion. I’m really surprised how wildlife vets concluded the tigress is pregnant,” Abharna told TOI.
 
 Asked whether two tigers were involved in human kills, Abharna said, “Our reports were based on circumstantial evidence. I studied the last three human kills in which DNA samples of last kill at Vihirgaon showed it was a male.”
 
 “It is possible tigress killed the man and male later approached it. Now we are geotagging the pictures and coming up with fresh piece of evidence,” said Abharna.
 
 Abharna denied non-cooperation to team from Karnataka. “I was impartial,” she said. However, reports submitted by wildlife vets said NGOs working in the teams in Pandharkawda seem to be carrying out research and data collection rather than trying to capture the tigress.
 
