AHMEDABAD: A woman living in   area has written a letter to Gujarat high court demanding stern action against   (AMC) authorities for poorly constructed roads that got badly damaged during last monsoon.

  has written to the HC for action against AMC because her husband, Hitendrasinh Waghela (45), met with a serious accident because of poor road conditions and is bed-ridden for the past five months. 
 
 
  
 The woman has requested the court for quick action against AMC in order to help her husband, who became a victim of damaged roads.
 
 The woman wrote to the HC after coming to know that the court was hearing a PIL on poor conditions of city roads and following the court’s comment that uneven roads result in accidents for two-wheeler riders. 
 
 She complained of improper resurfacing of roads which left them uneven and undulated. Improper resurfacing of roads around manholes results in accidents, and she urged the court for quick action to help her husband who became a victim of such an accident due to damaged roads in Ahmedabad city.
 
 The woman has narrated the ordeal in her letter after her husband, who was working as a real estate broker, was out for some work in   area on October 18, 2017. He fell from the two-wheeler near   and suffered head injury. He became unconscious and was rushed to the hospital.
 
 Since the accident, Waghela has undergone four surgeries and the family has incurred nearly Rs 30 lakh on his treatment. 
 
 “My husband is bed-ridden since then. He cannot move his hands and speak. Our family is financially devastated. The only reason for such a condition is that AMC had built roads with poor quality material and they got damaged during the monsoon. People go out and they sustain injuries because of accidents caused due to damaged roads,” he letter reads requesting the HC to take stern action against AMC and the state government so that her husband gets justice.
 
 When contacted, Reenaba said, “I wrote letter to the HC not in a hope to get any compensation, but to ensure that nobody else should become a victim of such an accident. We pay taxes regularly and in case of delay, authorities continue to send us reminders. But when it comes to providing facilities, it is none.”
 
 
