PUNE: For  , last year's   summit was a case of so near, yet so far.

 He was just 100 metres away from the peak when he had to climb down as the weather was unfavourable.
 
 However, that unsuccessful attempt gave him a new zest and confidence that scaling the Everest was indeed possible for him and he touched the peak at 7 am on Thursday morning in his second attempt.
 
 A development officer with the Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) India, Chawale has previously scaled a few smaller peaks. His wife, Surekha, said, "I managed to speak to him over the satellite phone and he sounded extremely elated. It was a dream come true for him."
 
 On May 16, Chawale reached camp 4 and started the ascent at night to touch peak on Thursday morning. Keshab Poudel, chairman, Peak Promotion, a trekking and mountaineering agency in Nepal, through which Chawale peaked Everest, told TOI, "The journey was peaceful for Chawale and two others who climbed the Everest on Thursday. Chawale and two other climbers started the descent on Thursday. They are expected to spend the night at camp 4. On Friday morning, they will start the descent and reach base camp by evening."
 
 Poudel said that in the last stage of the expedition, the weather became slightly cloudy but the climbers managed it well. Poudel said that they were tired after the Everest climb and after fighting tiredness, they started the descent on the same day.
 
 Before Chawale summited the Mount Everest, he issued a statement which said, "I firmly believe that mountaineering is a great adventure sport which promotes personal growth and mental fitness useful in other areas of life. In past seven years, I have successfully completed many climbing expeditions in Sahyadri and elsewhere in the Himalayas. I have scaled peaks around 6,000 mt in height. I have hoisted LIC flag on every peak I climbed."
 
 Chawale received professional training from   (JIM), Pahalgam, J&K.
 
 Meanwhile, Lonand-based mountaineer Prajeet Pardeshi, also scaled the Mount Everest along with Chawale, according to a statement issued by Prajeet's brother Sujit on Thursday. The statement added, "Pardeshi set out on his journey on March 20 and successfully scaled Mount Everest on May 17."
 
 
