CHANDIGARH: Fixing of interest rates for loans given by the commission agents to  , instant disbursal of Rs 1 lakh cash and central assistance to the debt waiver scheme are some of the key recommendations made by the assembly committee on farmers’ suicides and economic problems being faced by farm labourers in the state.

 For farmers and farm labourers who end their lives, the condition to get widow pension should be waived off and if any member of a farmers’ family takes the extreme step then it should make the family eligible for benefits as the financial distress can drive anyone to the edge and the outstanding debt of a farmer who commits suicide should be taken over by the state.
 
 In cases where a farmers’ wife commits suicide, leaving behind kids, they should be given financial assistance. The committee has underlined the need for timely payment of financial assistance to the family of farmers who commit suicides.
 
 Among its 79 recommendations, the committee has pointed out the need for setting up a debt settlement and reconciliation commission for settling cases of those farmers who are unable to pay their loans. It will help in convincing farmers to repay the loans with time relaxation or with a one-time settlement. In case farmers have paid double of their original amount then such cases should also be referred to the commission.
 
 The committee has also observed that even though minimum support prices for crops other than wheat and paddy have been fixed to promote crop diversification, the full amounts were not being paid. “For instance, the   for sunflower was fixed at Rs 3,950 but when procurement season came, farmers were only paid Rs 2,200 to Rs 2,700. Same thing happened in case of maize where the MSP was fixed at Rs 1,350 but farmers were paid between Rs 1,100 to Rs 700,” said the report of the committee that was tabled in the   assembly on Wednesday.
 
 The committee has added that in the absence of a clear agriculture policy, farmers were stuck in the wheat-paddy cycle. “The state should be divided into different zones depending on the mineral value of soils and other conditions. The crops recommended there should be supported with minimum prices,” says the committee.
 
 It has also been suggested that farmers should be encouraged to share their tube wells and subsidy should be given to farmers who own less than five acre of land. Steps to ensure that farmers are able to take tractors and other farming equipment on hire have also been included in the report.
 
 On a related issue, the committee has sought amendments in the “State Prevention of Human Smuggling Act” so that the maximum fee charged by commission agents is fixed and action is taken against those violating it.
 
 To make the trend for farm producer organisations (FPOs) pick in the state, the state should carry out awareness campaigns. The need for setting up dispensaries for free treatment and setting up of basic infrastructure for cluster of villages has also been highlighted. For sugarcane growers, the price fixed should not be less than those paid in other states. It also sought adequate funds for the agriculture university in the state.
 
 Dissent Note
 
 SAD MLA  , who is a member of the committee, gave a dissenting note, claiming that the state government had not properly honoured its promise of complete loan waiver for farmers in the state. He said many of them were being troubled by banks and those who have not been able to pay back their loans have tarnished their CIBIL score.
 
 
