GURGAON: The   government is planning to build the country’s biggest start-up hub in Gurgaon over the next couple of years, along the lines of the T-Hub in Hyderabad.

 Named Global Start-Up Village, the hub is likely to come up on a 2.5 acre plot. Sources said the government was yet to finalise land for the start-up hub, and was currently working on its detailed project report. The project, envisaged under the Haryana Entrepreneur and Start-up Policy 2017, will be developed under the public-private-partnership model.
 
 According to officials privy to the development, once the project report and estimates are ready, the government can allot funds for the hub. The Haryana government has already announced a Rs 100-crore corpus to aid upcoming start-ups in the city under its 2017 policy.
 
 
  
 “The idea behind the start-up village is to create a space for entrepreneurs and researchers, where they can do their research and put their ideas into action. With this village, we wish to strengthen Gurgaon’s image as an international start-up hub,” said a senior government official.
 
 He also said the start-up village would have research and incubation centres, and constantly work towards engaging different stakeholders such as entrepreneurs, engineers, investors, researchers, government representatives and academicians.
 
 The government is currently working on the details of the project. “Once we finalise the project report, talks will be initiated with possible partners,” the official said.
 
 Sources said the   or T-Hub in Hyderabad, had inspired the idea behind the start-up village in Gurgaon. T-Hub was set up by the Telangana government in 2015 in association with   and The International Institute for Information Technology, Hyderabad. The Hyderabad facility is spread across 70,000 sq ft.
 
 While the Telangana government has set aside $100 million (Rs 636.20 crore) to aid start-ups, Haryana has announced a Rs 100-crore fund.
 
 Officials in the northern state said the funds to aid upcoming start-ups would be ready by the next two quarters. “We have finalised the venture-partner for the funds and are currently in talks with banks for the managing partner,” the official said.
 
 Haryana had introduced its start-up policy in October last year after a delay of almost two years. Under the policy, the Manohar Lal Khattar government had announced a slew of measures to promote the start-up ecosystem in the state, such as setting up of incubators in every district, financial incentives and regulatory easing.
 
 Sources said the policy would require another six months to take off at the ground level. 
 
 Prospective entrepreneurs said the project would be beneficial for the city’s youths. 
 
 “Such a facility would be of much help for entrepreneurs and those planning to launch start-ups. However, the government must ensure they don’t restrict it to just start-ups, but also provide resources for testing labs,” said  , the founder of Parkzap, a Gurgaon-based tech start-up.
 
 
