HYDERABAD: The city has over 12 critical bottlenecks where traffic crawls during most times of the day and a majority of these are located in the prime central business district of the city, shows data provided by the traffic police department. 

 According to the data, traffic comes to grinding a halt daily at NFCL Junction at Punjagutta, Road No 2 near   and even on the   airport Prakash Nagar Flyover-three of the most congested road stretches in the city. Other congested locations identified include Dhobighat, ESI bus stop near S R Nagar and the CTO circle near Paradise junction. 
  
  
 Traffic cops attribute the worsening chaos to the growing number of vehicles hitting the city roads daily. "One of the major challenges to increasing mobility on city roads is the volume of vehicles getting added to the existing fleet. More than 1,000 new vehicles are registered within Hyderabad limits daily and people continue to upgrade to larger vehicles, leading to shrinking road space. Another major challenge is the condition of roads, which are often dug up by various agencies, thus slowing down traffic movement," said L S Chauhan, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), Hyderabad.
 
 Top RTA officials, meanwhile, pointed out that over 20,000 private vehicles are added in the twin cities every month.
 
 However, at locations such as the spot near Chutneys on Road No 2 and Ramgopalpet police station, narrow roads were identified as the culprit. "Near Chutneys at Banjara Hills, faulty road engineering is the main reason. Since the road suddenly narrows down near Nagarjuna Circle, it has created a bottleneck and has a cascading effect on traffic at the junctions ahead," Chauhan said, adding that the state government's Strategic Road Development Project (SRDP), coupled with fully-operational metro rail services will help ease congestion.
 
 Commuters who make their way through these congested stretches and urban planning experts, however, feel that building more flyovers and underpasses may not be the solution.
 
 "Flyovers only shift the traffic congestion to a junction that lies ahead and today even flyovers can be found gridlocked during peak hours. Severe traffic jams form at the Begumpet flyover, which leads towards  , every morning and evening. The construction of such road infrastructure also brings a lot of traffic restrictions along with it, thus increasing the commute time and causing severe inconvenience to office-goers. The state government must focus on decongesting the city instead and shouldn't allow big commercial establishments to pop up at busy junctions like Punjagutta," said Abhishek AV, who travels between his home in Begumpet and office in Hi-Tec City.
 
 Urban planning experts point to stricter laws and governing the number of private vehicles being added to city roads every year, as the only way forward.
 
