VISAKHAPATNAM: A   has come up with an invention that he says can help prevent train accidents by identifying   fractures - which the Indian Railways has identified as a leading cause of mishaps.

 P  , a self-described freelance inventor, has named his invention the   or Elastic Rail Fastening Clip. 
 
 Following a spate of train accidents, the central government and the Railways sought technical advice from various international research organisations to help reduce the occurrence of rail fractures and weld failures, which prompted Venkateswara Chowdary to come up with his invention.
 
 Rail fractures have been identified by the Railways as a major reason behind train accidents.
 
 Venkateswara Chowdary has also applied for a patent from Intellectual Property India, and had also approached the Railways to use the tool in order to curb accidents.
 
 Chowdary said the e-Clip technology can reduce the occurrence of rail fractures and weld failures, occurrences of derailments and accidents, increase speed of trains, increase axle loads of freight trains and also increase capacity of railway lines.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Chowdary said he will soon make a presentation regarding the technology in front of the   in Delhi soon.
 
 Chowdary said he has been researching on the subject of rail track engineering since 2001. “I identified the exact cause and invented a solution to rectify the said cause to enable reduction of occurrence of rail fractures and weld fractures on the Railways’ network,” Chowdary said.
 
 According to him, some of the major causes of rail fracture are fatigue of tracks due to thin rubber pads, fouled ballast, and low clamping force of e-clips that elastically secure railway tracks with sleepers, and thin rubber pads, which are unable to dampen wheel impact loading efficiently.
 
 Chowdary said defects in the existing rail track lead to rail fractures and weld failures. “These e–clips are not gripping the tracks with sufficient toe load. The deflection of e–clips is predetermined and cannot be adjusted, and there is no provision in the design of e–clips to adjust deflection and thereby to tighten said e–clips when needed,” he said.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Waltair divisional railway manager MS Mathur said, “Many manufacturers try for new fitting but these have to be approved by Research Designs and Standards Organisation of Indian Railways for safety.”
 
 
