GURUGRAM: The city’s air pollution levels continued to be in the ‘very poor’ to ‘severe’ category on Monday, though PM2.5 level had come down from Sunday. 

 The highest PM2.5 level recorded was 232.78 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m3), compared to 366 µg/m3 on Sunday, a dip of about 36%.
 
 
  
 
 
 On the other hand, peak air quality index (AQI) recorded was 378 (‘very poor’). From ‘poor’, the PM2.5 level hit ‘very poor’ on Thursday and stayed there. 
 
  
  
 
 
 However, the city remained the least polluted in the NCR, with Noida (483), Ghaziabad (482) and Faridabad (411) recording ‘severe’ AQI levels, while Delhi with 400 also in the ‘very poor’ category.
 
 Though Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) blamed the worsening pollution levels to increase in fog during early mornings, residents were convinced the authorities were to blame for not implementing GRAP measures in earnest. 
 
 “The high concentration of PM2.5 is a result of early morning fog, which increases moisture in the air, to which particulate matter sticks. However, as per the meteorological department forecast, the situation is likely to improve by Tuesday and Wednesday, as a slight increase in wind speed is expected,” said an HSPCB official. He said all GRAP measures are being implemented.
 
 But residents alleged there is no check on waste burning and dust emitted by construction sites. 
 
 “Waste is still being burned every day in vacant plots. Also, construction sites are still emitting dust. One can see clouds of dust everywhere,” said Sector 23 resident Karan Bhatnagar.
 
 However, the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre (RWC), New Delhi, told TOI that foggy conditions are likely to persist for the next 48 hours in Gurgaon, with chances of it intensifying during morning hours, when visibility could drop to a low 50-200m, as had happened on Monday morning, leading to air traffic disruptions. 
 
 The low visibility also meant on the first day of New Year, traffic moved cautiously, with commuters straining their eyes for a clear look.
 
 RWC officials said high moisture content in the air was also responsible for temperature dipping to the seasons lowest, and that cold conditions will prevail over NCR for 2-3 days. 
 
  Gurgaon recorded the season’s coldest night at 6°C, while Delhi hit 5.7°C. 
 
 “For the next 48 hours, foggy conditions will stay. Daytime visibility is expected to be around 500-800m, although during wee hours, a blinding fog will reduce it to just 50-200m,” he added.
 
 
