CHANDIGARH: As many as 30-35 residents of Tower no. 11 of   2 residential society held a silent   march against the installation of prepaid meters, three mobile towers on the societies’ terrace along with a few other demands at 11.40am on Sunday. 

 The protest began from outside the main gate of the society located on   Road, Zirakpur and went on till Bikanerwala on National Highway 21. The number of people increased to 40 as residents from four other societies located on Ghazipur and VIP Road also joined the march in solidarity. Children also participated in the silent protest march.
 
 The residents upheld placards and cardboards mentioning slogans like ‘We are no longer accepting the things we cannot change’, ‘We are changing the things we can’t accept’, ‘We march for residents’ rights’, ‘Ghar ghar se ayi awaaz, band karo bijli ka vyapaar’, ‘The power of people is stronger than those in power’ among others.
 
 The march was organised after a series of dissatisfactions expressed by the residents pertaining to the installation of prepaid meters in various flats of Tower no. 11, one of the recently completed constructions at the site of the huge project. The residents also expressed suspicion over the installation of three mobile towers on the terrace of the tower, exposing them to harmful cellphone radiation had demanded to see the guidelines for their safe inclusion into residential spaces. 
 
 “First of all, this tower is still under construction and the occupancy is below fifty percent,” said Manoj Das, one of the residents of the flat. “The first family to come and live here came in May 2016. There are eleven floors, excluding the ground floor and there are ninety-six flats in total. Out of which, owners of only fifty flats have got their possession. Many others look complete from outside, but are incomplete inside,” he added.
 
 According to Das, the process of replacing the temporarily existing sub-meters with prepaid meters began in August 2017, after a letter was issued to the residents by the builder along with the meters the installation charges of which was Rs 18,000 each, whereas the cost of a government meter is Rs 1,300. “We were told that these were dual meters and their rate of electricity per unit was as per the government slab. However, actually, it was much higher. But, since the letter stated that it was according to the government slab, we believed them,” added another resident of the tower.
 
 Out of fifty flats offered for possession, thirty-eight are currently occupied and pre-paid meters have been installed in eight to ten flats. “We have been protesting this decision ever since. Many of us have refused to comply with the builder’s wishes and did not let them change our meters. Even though they have tried to intimidate us by threatening to disconnect our electricity connection,” said  , a resident of the tower.
 
 The flats owners with prepaid meters also complained of receiving a bill of Rs 1,000 week as opposed to the average monthly bill of Rs 1,300 earlier. “The problem is that most people who live here are from middle income groups and cannot afford the expenses of a prepaid meter,” added another resident. 
 
 Some residents also complained about not having an individual parking slot for each family residing in the tower as promised by the builder at the time of purchase.
 
 However, Harbir Singh, AGM and PRO, of the company that manages the functioning of the housing society, said, “We had conducted a meeting with the RWA president and other prominent members of the tower on Saturday evening and have started the work for addressing their grievances. We have told them that if they think something is wrong with the prepaid meters, they can get them checked and we can pay for it. We have also told them that if they still want the government meters, they can take it up with the electricity board and we will provide them the  . I have also started the process of markin the parking lots with individual flat numbers and they will get the parking ready by the next two-three days. I understand that there are certain concerns, but everything takes time.” 
 
 
