NEW DELHI: Asian Championships gold-medalist in women’s 65kg freestyle, Navjot Kaur is optimistic that the Indian women’s   contingent will return with a rich medal haul from the 2018   in  , Australia. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Writing in her column for 
 , Kaur said that the   are focused to do well at  , beginning April 4. “Presently in the Indian wrestling camp our focus is on preparing the wrestlers for the Commonwealth Games in April in Australia,” wrote the 28-year-old. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Kaur will not be participating at the event after missing the qualification trails due to an injury, but she is very much part of the preparations and is training the young Dwya Kakran, who will be representing India in the 65kg category. 
 
 “I am working hard especially with young Dwya Kakran who will be representing India in my weight category in Australia,” said Kaur about her ward, who won gold at the Wrestling Nationals last year. “I am happy with the progress she is making. With my experience I can safely say the Indian women wrestlers will win medals in all 6 categories they will compete and many of them will be gold medals."
 
 At a personal level, Kaur has had her ups and downs, but is confident of a strong comeback. “My recent experience taught me that as a sportsperson we should not be discouraged by any failure,” she wrote. “I fell prior to the Commonwealth Games trials recently and could not qualify to represent India. Following that came my wonderful experience of becoming India's first women wrestler to win an Asian Championships gold medal recently."
 
 “The big thing was in the Asian Championships both Vinesh and me beat Japanese wrestlers. Japanese wrestlers are considered the world's best wrestlers. Following that achievement the United World Wrestling rankings named me as the number two wrestler in the world. Now my focus will be on trying to maintain this standard in the future too,” she added. 
 
 For Kaur, the next big goal is the Asian Games. “As far as my individual preparations goes I am focusing on first getting selected for the Asian Games and then perform well there in Jakarta in October,” wrote Kaur. "After our performances at the Asian Championships our wrestlers have now gained in confidence in executing our plans. We are good in our power and strength and are working on improving our speed of movement in the rip.” 
 
 
