KOLKATA: The end of monsoon no longer signals a break in dengue. The return of dreaded disease in parts of Salt Lake and Dum Dum indicates that the virus is now endemic in Kolkata and that aedis aegypti larvae (mosquito that carries the virus) are still hatching, according to experts.

 While prevailing weather conditions may seem unfavourable for the spread of dengue, aedis aegypti larvae could be hatching in water stored inside homes, construction sites and crevices where the ambient temperature is not high enough to kill the larvae, they point out.
 
 Mosquito larvae can delay hatching by three-four months to tide over adverse climatic conditions, said Irfaan Akhtar, consultant microbiologist, Fortis Hospital. “While an aedes aegypti mosquito survives two weeks to a month, the larvae can remain dormant and alive for months. It can delay hatching to avoid a sudden temperature change and wait for conditions to improve. During this pre-summer season, there is a tendency to collect and store water in containers. The latter often have some unhatched larvae that come alive once the water is poured. This is what seems to be happening now,” said Akhtar.
 
 Since water containers remain inside homes where the temperature is lower, larvae
 
 can hatch, said  , consultant at RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS). “The ideal temperature for aedis larvae to survive is 29°C. Even though the mercury has shot past 35°C, they can easily hatch in air-conditioned rooms, construction wells and puddles where the temperature remains ideal,” said Biswas.
 
 The city has no definite dengue season now, felt Akhtar. “Every year, the viral load is increasing and the strains, too, have changed. So, there will always be a residue of infected larvae that will continue to hatch during the so-called off season,” he said.
 
 Dengue has been striking during the pre-summer period but previously they wouldn’t get diagnosed, felt Apurba Ghosh, Institute of Child Health (ICH) director. “A positive outcome of the repeated epidemics over the last few years has been an increased awareness. Now, people insist on a dengue blood test if they have fever,” said Ghosh. He, however, felt that the changing strains are not responsible for dengue lingering.
 
