GREATER NOIDA: A 24-year-old woman and her paramour have been arrested for allegedly killing the former’s   on May 8 in Ecotech II area of  .

 The two were in an illicit relationship and had allegedly planned the murder in order to eliminate Kishan (25), the woman’s husband, who was a drunkard and apparently used to beat up his wife, Lakshmi, frequently. Kishan who belonged to Lalitpur, had married Lakshmi around seven years back and the couple have two kids together, a three year old daughter and a one-year-old son.
 
 Both Kishan and Lakshmi used to work in different cardboard factories in Surajpur area. They lived in   in Ecotech II area in a factory premises with other labourers. The factory is closed and currently serves as an accommodation for the labourers. While working at the cardboard factory, Lakshmi met Jai Prakash (19), a fellow labourer at a factory and the two started seeing each other two years back.
 
 Rajpal Tomar, SHO, Ecotech II police station said, Kishan was aware about his wife’s extra-marital affair with Jai Prakash, who belongs to  , and the two had frequent fights over this issue.
 
 Jai and Lakshmi conspired to kill Kishan and the former got him drunk on the night of May 8. Lakshmi had strangled her husband with her dupatta while Jai crushed his head with a stone. Both the children of the couple were asleep in another room when the murder took place.
 
 “Jai Prakash had befriended Kishan and on the night of May 8, he got Kishan drunk at a wine shop in Habibpur. They came in the couple’s room at plot number 423 around 9pm,” said SSP, Gautam Budh Nagar, Ajay Pal Sharma. 
 
 The two then hid the body in a blanket. The next day, Lakshmi sent the kids to her relative’s place in Sarin Farms in Surajpur and she left the room with Jai Prakash for work.
 
 In the night, the duo dropped the body in the adjacent vacant plot from the factory’s wall. When Lakshmi was quizzed by neighbours about the absence of her husband, she informed that he had gone to Gurgaon to get medicines.
 
 However, as the body started rotting, neighbours got a whiff of a body lying in the vacant plot and informed the police. The body was recovered on May 11 in a decomposed state. On investigating the matter, police found the involvement of Lakshmi and Jai Prakash in the murder and arrested them from Udyog Kendra at around 8.30am on Monday.
 
 Sources said, a third person known as Bunty, who is in a relationship with Lakshmi’s younger sister, was also involved in executing the murder. The SHO however said, the duo were trying to shift the blame on someone else and ruled out his involvement. The SSP has announced a reward of Rs 5,000 for the police team involved in cracking the murder.
 
 
