CHANDIGARH: The   police have booked a resident of   district for attempt to murder and other related charges after he brutally attacked his wife when she refused to have sex with him because of her menstrual cycle. 

 According to the police, the victim, 35-year-old Rani, a resident of   in Fatehabad city suffered eight injuries after she was attacked by her husband,  , with an iron "barchi (sharp-edged weapon)." She was rescued by her mother-in-law and admitted to a local hospital from where she was referred to Agroha-based medical college for further treatment.
 
 A case under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 323, 324 (causing grievous hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) under   was registered against the accused husband on Sunday. 
 
 
 
 
 The FIR registered at Fatehabad city police station mentions, “At around 3 am on December 31, 2017, Rani’s husband Sheetal wanted to have sex. When she refused on ground that she had menstrual period, a visibly upset Sheetal took the iron weapon from an almirah and hit her blindly and repeatedly to teach her a lesson for her refusal.”
 
 The complaint revealed that on hearing Rani’s shrieks, her mother-in-law Dharmo Devi reached the spot and Sheetal fled after threatening to teach his wife more lessons for refusing to have sex with him. Rani’s mother-in-law took her to the civil hospital, but after observing her critical condition and the extent of her injuries, Rani was referred Medical College in Agroha for further treatment.
 
 In her statement, recorded at the hospital by the police, Rani sought strict action against her husband.
 
 The complainant has three daughters and was working as maid and her husband is a driver. According to the complainant, her husband was also in habit of consuming alcohol.
 
 Inspector Surender Singh, SHO police station Fatehabad city, told TOI that the accused has been arrested and sent to judicial custody. He added that the charges of attempt to murder were slapped on the basis of the statement given by the victim against her husband and considering the nature of injuries suffered by her.
 
 This is second such incident in Haryana, where a husband has attacked his wife over denial of conjugal rights. On November 14 last year, 35-year-old Sanjiv Kumar of Jogna Khera village in Kurukshetra district was arrested for killing his wife Suman after she denied.
 
 
 
