Nagpur: Mayor Nanda Jichkar has appealed to citizens to actively participate in Swacch Survekshan 2018 to achieve better ranking for Nagpur. She was speaking during the inauguration ceremony of Central India’s biggest dental conference NIDACON 2018, organized by Indian Dental Association (IDA) at Chitnavis Centre on Saturday. Jichkar said, “With cement roads, green metro rail, electric cabs and many such projects, Nagpur is seeing a fast-paced development. Union minister Nitin Gadkari and Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis have a long-term vision for the city. In return, I urge our people to join hands with the local government to secure maximum marks in the Swacch survey.”  Jichkar also asked the dentist community to help the underprivileged section of the society by conducting health camps and providing them with services of fine quality. Secretary, IDA Nagpur, Vaibhav Karemore said that the association was planning to launch a charitable hospital in collaboration with NMC which will focus on treating the needy.   More than 500 students and delegates attended the conference. Apart from the regular paper presentation, IDA came up with an E-poster competition for the undergraduate and postgraduate students where they presented their original ideas and research.  There was also a session of free paper presentation by private practitioners where they discussed some rare case studies. IDA’s quarterly digest about dentistry, ‘Dental Probe’ was also released on the occasion.  IDA will focus on increasing activities for dental health and spread more awareness, said newly-elected president from Nagpur, Tushar Shrirao.  As part of the scientific session, Dr IC Dudhani Memorial oration was delivered by Dr Nitin Dani, an eminent implantologist from Nashik. Dr Prashant Shirude delivered a brief about cosmetic dentistry, while Dr Chandramuli’s lecture focused on ‘Invisible Restorative Aesthetics’. Lastly, Dr Sachin Sachdeva enlightened the attendees about ‘Facial aesthetics using MIMA’.  The dental tech exhibition which included more than 30 stalls displaying various dental materials and equipment, was the prime attraction of the conference. The exhibition showcased new technique-based instruments such as lazer pens for cutting soft tissues and updated version of portable X-rays.  President of IDA Maharashtra State, Dr Abhay Kolte, chief convener Dr Zubair Quazi, scientific convener Dr Vivek Thombre were also present on the dais. The installation ceremony of the new team for Nagpur was held at Gurunanak Sabagruh later in the evening. 