It’s relatively an obscure document but the ‘Review of Public Enterprises,’ a highly authoritative work on the financial stature of the state-level public enterprises (SLPEs) in Kerala, has been a data source for 100 PhDs over the past three decades.

 The latest review was tabled along with the other budgetary documents in the legislative assembly, a week ago. The report is prepared by the Centre for Management Development (CMD), a Thiruvananthapuram-based governmental organisation.
 
 “Researchers focusing on the Kerala’s SLPEs find it a very useful document, being a unique source of information of the government-owned enterprises. There are more than 100 researchers who had successfully completed their PhDs, using the review as the basic source of data. Each year, two or three researchers approach us directly for the data we collect from the 97 SLPEs,” said an official with the CMD.
 
 The research was done mainly by candidates belonging to economics and management streams. “Most of these studies had happened at the University of Kerala, followed by the Mahatma Gandhi University and Cochin University of Science and Technology,” said  , chief economist with Kochi-based Centre  . “Just like the Economic Survey or Economic Review, this is also a unique document, which only the government has the resources to do,” he added.   and Public Sector Restructuring and Internal Audit Board (RIAB) also are using the review to prepare their own reports.
 
 The nearly 400-page Review analyses the performance of the enterprises by primarily looking at their profit and loss account and balance sheet.
 
 “Other than the profitability trend of the SLPEs, it also gives an insight into the average salary paid to the different categories,” said  , a PhD scholar with the School of Management, College of Engineering, Thiruvananthapuram. A former junior officer of Keltron, Kumar is currently doing his doctoral research on the fairness of the rewarding systems in government-owned manufacturing companies and its effect on employee loyalty.
 
