Kolkata: Four teams, three matches, one title. This, in a nutshell, is how the stage is set for the I-League’s grand finale on Thursday.

 When   host   at the Tau Devi Lal Stadium in Panchkula on Thursday, looking for a win to clinch the trophy in only their second season,   will be welcoming   FC at the Salt Lake Stadium in Kolkata while Mohun Bagan will be lining up against Gokulam Kerala FC in Kozikhode, hoping for one final twist in the championship race.
 
 “Sometimes, football can be crazy and throw up surprises. You never know what happens on the final day,” East Bengal’s Japanese midfielder Katsumi Yusa said on Tuesday, summing up the build-up to a bizarre, but absorbing, end to the tournament.
 
 Until Monday, East Bengal were in control of their own destiny. But Khalid Jamil’s side blew their advantage with a 2-2 draw against Lajong FC in Shillong. East Bengal are now in the fourth position with 30 points, behind leaders Minerva FC (32), Neroca FC (31) and Mohun Bagan (30).
 
 As East Bengal players returned to the city with heavy heart on Tuesday,   Omagbemi, like Katsumi, was also hoping against hope.
 
 Dudu, who scored a brace to rescue a point against Lajong FC, believes that the title race would witness another twist on Thursday.
 
 “When I returned to join East Bengal, people questioned my ability. I have shown what I can do… that I can still score,” said the Nigerian striker, who has emerged East Bengal’s top-scorer with seven goals.
 
 Admitting that he broke down in the dressing room after the draw with Lajong, Dudu lamented a chance that had gone abegging. “We tried our best to get a positive result against Lajong FC. It didn’t happen. We play as a team and lose as a team. I’m not giving up hope. This league is not finished yet,” he insisted.
 
 Katsumi also failed to pinpoint the problem for his team which failed to cash in on Minerva’s meltdown in the business end of the championship. “I can’t explain it, honestly speaking. We have missed one chance too many,” the Japanese said. 
 
 The Punjab side, which appeared to have lost their way after being humbled by Chennai City FC last week, is now once the front-runner to win the title. All they need is a victory over Churchill to seal the deal, failing which they will have to depend on favourable results from the other two matches involving three other title-contenders.
 
 For Mohun Bagan, it’s now about taking a fresh shot at the title as well as seeking revenge in Kozhikode. The green-and-maroon coach Shankarlal Chakraborty, who had given up on the title race after losing to Gokulam Kerala, finds his team back in the mix following a string of upsets in the league. Not surprisingly, Bagan players have been gagged before the all-important clash.
 
 In a minor development, defender Debabrata Roy flew out to Kozhikode on Tuesday to join the squad after key midfielder Raynier Fernandes injured himself while training. 
 
 
