Bengaluru: Monday was a big day for several aspiring management students from across the country, who were rewarded for all the hard work they had put in. Twenty candidates, including two girls and three non-engineers, scored 100 percentile in the Common Admission Test (CAT) conducted last November.

 The diversity in toppers is interesting to note considering that all the 20 toppers last year were male engineers. Though no Bengaluru student is among the top 20, Kumar Ravi, 24, comes close with 99.99 percentile. He credits his success to his strategic method of attempting the paper. Ravi, who graduated from NIT Nagpur in 2016, said he wanted to pursue an MBA to gain an understanding of the operational side of businesses.
 
 “During my stint at a private company, I realized there were many things that I didn’t understand, like why profitable companies shut down at times. I had no space or visibility in that sector to make a decision and wanted to earn a skillset which would help me achieve that,” said the mechanical engineer.
 
 Ravi, who was schooled in Bihar, said instead of cramming for the paper, he tried out a number of methods of solving the questions while attempting mock tests. “After trying a few, I decided to use the strategy of ‘stop loss and scavenge’, under which you solve the toughest questions in the end, instead of attempting questions as they appear. This is what I employed while attempting the CAT paper as well. I’m not sure if I will work with a company or start my own,” he said.
 
 For 22-year-old Ashok Suresh Das, a final-year student of physics at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), the decision to appear for the exam came when he was considering a career change. He scored 99.97 percentile.
 
 “It was in June 2017 that I decided to take the exam, and though I enrolled at a TIME coaching centre, I wasn’t able to attend classes regularly as I was still studying. Hence, I focused more on the mock tests, which helped me enormously. I tried to complete one test per week, which enabled me to identify my weaknesses as well. This way, I was able to improve my geometry,” he said, adding that reading newspapers and books helped him prepare for the paper’s verbal sections.
 
 The results were announced by IIM Lucknow, the coordinating B-school for CAT 2017. Nearly two lakh candidates seeking entry to some of India’s top management institutions had taken the test. 
 
 
