NEW DELHI: Delhi Police’s   has seized more than 2.5 quintals of   worth Rs 2.5 crore, and arrested a smuggler from Dwarka. The accused has been identified as   (28).

 The marijuana was being brought in from Andhra Pradesh after being concealed in secret cavities in Delhi-bound trucks and distributed in bulk to smugglers in Delhi. “The drug was unloaded and shifted in tempos in small amounts to avoid cops. The accused used to supply   all over Delhi in whole-sale,” joint commissioner (crime) Alok Kumar said.
 
 A special team from inter-border gangs investigation squad had been trailing marijuana cartels and their network in Delhi since two few months.
 
 “ACP Aditya Gautam’s team received information about a distributor coming to Dichao depot in a Mahinda Champion tempo. A team comprising inspector Yashpal, ASI Govind Singh and others laid a trap and the tempo was intercepted. The accused was arrested and 270 kgs of the drug was seized,” DCP (crime) Bhisham Singh said.
 
 Kumar told cops that his family was facing a cash crunch since his father’s demise in 2004. So, he started to work as waiters in different banquet halls in southwest Delhi.
 
 Four years ago, he came in touch with one Naresh from Bihar who supplied marijuana to students of DU’s south campus. Naresh was part of a module, which smuggled in thousands of kilograms of marijuana in trucks every month and supplied to peddlers and students.
 
 Influenced by Naresh, Kumar joined the trade and began to work as a distributor for him. Kumar was quick to learn the tricks of the trade and avoided using cell phones to dodge cops. The destination of delivery and meeting were discussed in person. The gang had rented small rooms at various parts of the capital, where the drugs were stored in capacity of 100 kilograms. These were used as outlets to sell to local peddlers.
 
 Kumar had become an elusive smuggler who cops could not track despite knowing his name. “He has been arrested for the first time. For every kilogram, Kumar managed to earn a profit of around Rs 400,” DCP Singh added.
 
 The cops are now trying to track down the senders and teams are also conducting raids to locate the truck that had come to Delhi with the consignment of around 1000 kilograms. Kumar is being interrogated about the whereabouts and identities of his associates and contacts in Delhi and Hyderabad. A team is likely to leave for Andhra Pradesh for investigation.
 
 
