CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday asked the   to submit a status report on the investigation so far into the murder of a Class II boy at a Bhondsi school last year. 

 Hearing the bail petition filed by the Class XI student of the same school who is accused of slitting the throat of the seven-year-old boy, Justice   asked CBI counsel   to file a reply to the plea by April 5.
 
 In his bail plea, the 16-year-old accused has challenged the orders passed by  , Gurgaon, and Gurgaon sessions court following which he was denied bail. The accused boy's main argument is that he should be released on bail as the investigating agency has not filed its chargesheet within one month after taking up the probe, as prescribed in the law for juvenile offenders.
 
 The plea filed by the accused through his father has also sought directions to set aside the Gurgaon court's decision of imposing Rs 21,000 cost on him.
 
 Earlier, on November 15, 2017, the Juvenile Justice Board, Gurgaon, had denied bail to the accused boy. Later, his appeal against the order was dismissed by the Gurgaon sessions court on January 8.
 
 The CBI has been arguing that the accused had been declared an adult by the Juvenile Justice Board and the mandatory period for filing a chargesheet is 90 days under CrPC provisions.
 
 The body of the seven-year-old boy, with his throat slit, was found inside the school toilet on September 8 last year. Initially, the matter was investigated by the Gurgaon police, which had booked a bus conductor of the school on the murder charge. However, the probe was later referred to CBI for probe.
 
 In the chargesheet filed before additional sessions judge JS   last month, the CBI claimed to have found enough evidence against the Class XI student who was picked up by the agency in November last year for allegedly killing the Class II student apparently to postpone exams and a parent-teacher meeting in September. The CBI had also given a clean chit to school bus conductor, who was arrested as prime accused by the Gurgaon police within a few hours of the murder, paving the way for his acquittal last month. 
 
 The CBI probe also revealed that even before slitting the throat of the Class II boy inside a washroom on the school campus, the juvenile had allegedly made several unsuccessful attempts to kill someone and get PTMs and exams cancelled.
 
 
