GHAZIABAD: A 10-year-old   of a condominium off NH-24 in Ghaziabad on Sunday, while her mother, who allegedly slashed her wrists, is admitted to a private hospital in a serious condition. The flat is in Mahagunpuram housing society where the mother-daughter duo was living for the past one year.

 The girl, identified by police as Mehul, was a Class IV student in  , located off NH-24 in the Dasna area.
 
 According to police, the girl’s mother, Vineeta, had fallen on hard times as she became jobless two years ago. Police said she got a divorce nearly ten years ago and had been living separately with her daughter. Her parents live in Chandigarh but she is believed to have lost touch with them as well nearly five years ago.
 
 Residents of the society said that Vineeta and Mehul were living on rent in a sixth-floor flat in   in the society. Recently Vineeta purchased a two-bedroom flat on the 19th floor in Narmada Tower in the same society where they shifted a few days ago.
 
 Police have recovered a ‘suicide note’ from the flat in which Vineeta has said that she was taking the extreme step on her own will. She has further written in the note that she did not want her daughter to live a life of ignominy and disrespect. The suicide attempt came to light at around 8.30am on Sunday. According to neighbours, though Vineeta and Mehul used to live alone, a man called   used to visit them occasionally.
 
 A retired central government official, K D Chaudhary, who lives in the flat opposite that of Vineeta, told TOI that Vikram, who identified himself as her husband, knocked on his door at around 8.30 am.
 
 “He used to come to the flat on and off. Perhaps he had a touring job. We were not too familiar with the mother-daughter either. We have shifted here only seven days ago. On Sunday morning, Vikram knocked on my door. When I opened, he told me that his wife and daughter were not opening the door despite repeated knocks. I lent him my mobile phone as he claimed that he did not have a phone. He called his wife but she did not respond after which I went back to my flat,” Chaudhary said.
 
 Chaudhary said he came rushing outside again when he heard cries of help after a few minutes. “The woman and the girl were lying on the floor of the living room. There was blood all around. I called the maintenance office for help. The man rushed out with his daughter in his arms. A few minutes later, the maintenance staff came and the woman too was carried downstairs,” said Chaudhary. The two were rushed to   where doctors declared Mehul as dead on arrival.
 
 “Vineeta had divorced years ago. She had been employed earlier but did not have any job right now,” Vikram told TOI. He said he is her husband. However, he refused to say how he managed to enter the flat on Sunday.
 
 According to police, the flat was Vineeta’s name and its monthly instalments were being paid by Vikram. Police sources said Vikram works as a driver.
 
 “It was Mehul’s birthday on Saturday. Vineeta had called up Vikram to take them to Gurdwara Bangla Sahib in Delhi. But Vikram did not come. They later had a heated argument over the phone. We believe that the mother-daughter duo had first decided to commit suicide by hanging themselves from the ceiling on Saturday night. However, they changed their mind and consumed a floor cleaner which did not have the desired effect. Vineeta told us that on Sunday morning, she went downstairs and bought a packet of Mehul’s favorite biscuits apart from razor blades. She then slashed her wrists. Seeing her mother die, Mehul climbed on a sofa and hung herself from the fan,” said police outpost in-charge Binu Singh.
 
 No FIR has been filed yet.
 
