Madurai: The   functioning in the congested East Marret Street has come in for the corporation’s scrutiny with officials cracking down on encroachment by traders. Vehicular movement often gets choked in this street as onions are spread for sales, occupying the road. As the road becomes narrower, vehicles are forced to move in snail’s pace, creating bottleneck for traffic movement.

 The corporation has been trying to shift the market to Mattuthavani vegetable market, but the traders are showing stiff resistance to vacate the place. The vegetable market too was functioning near Meenakshi Amman Temple before it was shifted to Mattuthavani.
 
 A civic body official said that the traders are reluctant and do not even turn up when they are invited by higher officials for talks. TOI had carried a story on 11th February on the delay in shifting various markets to the outskirts of the city and highlighting the problems due to them.
 
 On Tuesday, Madurai city corporation commissioner Aneesh Sekhar visited onion market and conducted an inspection. He found large quantities of onions encroaching upon the road, which was then cleared by corporation officials. Sekhar strictly warned the traders to restrict the sales to inside the shops. The commissioner also instructed his sub-ordinates to keep an eye on the market and not to allow traders on the road.
 
 Honorary president of Onion Merchants Association PMK Selvaraj said that corporation authorities have been urging them to not to hinder traffic movement, which most of their members are following. They have been also asked to get licenses for the trade. The traders will discuss it with other members of the association, he added.
 
 Earlier, Aneesh Sekhar inspected Mattuthavani vegetable market and took stock of encroachment and solid waste management. He urged the sellers to limit themselves to the space earmarked to each of them, as many of them were found to be encroaching public space. The sellers were also asked to chop the vegetable remains, so that it can decay quickly.
 
 The commissioner also visited New Bangajam Colony, a residential locality in Zone Three of Madurai Corporation.
 
 
