PATNA:   Board chairman Ashwani Lohani on Friday announced that the railways would replace all conventional coaches with LHB (Linke Hofmann Busch) coaches soon to ensure safety of passengers and provision of better amenities to them.

 Lohani, who was in Patna to attend the 63rd Railway Week function, told mediapersons, “Only modern LHB coaches will be constructed from April 1 this year. Bio-toilets will also be installed in the coaches by March 2019 as part of the Swachh Bharat Mission.”
 
 The Railway Board chief said all passenger trains under the jurisdiction of the East Central Railway (ECR) would now run at a speed of 110km per hour. The speed limit of mail and express trains originating from different places under the ECR has already been increased up to 130km per hour.
 
 According to Lohani, “The railways will build one more foot overbridge at the   station to cope with increasing footfall of passengers. The long pending demand to transfer the   railway line to the state government for converting it into a four-lane road is also being considered by the Railway Board.” 
 
 ECR general manager (CM) L C Trivedi, who accompanied Lohani, said the Railway Board had given in-principle approval for handing over the existing R-Block Digha rail line to the state government for construction of roads. He, however, said there were some problems related to cost evaluation of the land on which the R-block Digha rail line stands.
 
 “The cost of the track plot has been evaluated at Rs 896 crore and a proposal sent again to the Railway Board for re-evaluation,” Trivedi said.
 
 As per the Railway Board’s direction, the  , which currently runs at a speed of 110kmph, will soon run at 130kmph. “We have applied for a certificate from the   for running the train at 130kmph,” he said and added the maximum speed of all trains running in the ECR zone would increase by 10%.
 
 Earlier, Lohani visited the superspecialty hospital of the railways located at Karbighaiya end and also inspected the track condition between the   and the Rajendra Nagar Terminal. He visited a photography-cum-rail exhibition at the Gyan Bhawan.
 
 
