SHILLONG: While   and its ally at the Centre   have entered campaign mode in the election-bound state, ruling   is yet to kick off its campaign for one of its last remaining citadels. 

 "We will work together to ensure that the next government is formed by Congress and not others," newly-appointed Meghalaya Pradesh Congress Committee president Celestine Lyngdoh said on Sunday. However, with not a single poster on the walls and no rallying cry to bring together its supporters in the state, the Congress is yet to catch up with its contenders.
 
 BJP has brought out its big guns, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi launching the party's campaign in the state last month and the party's national president Amit Shah building on that momentum by addressing an election rally in Garo Hills, home to chief minister  , on Saturday. With a promise of "good and accountable governance", the saffron party has called for a "time for change, time for BJP".
 
 The party's core committee met here under Shah's leadership on Saturday to discuss the party's preparations for the election and the areas it will focus on when it takes the fight to one of the most stable governments the state has seen. "The party's mission document and manifesto will focus on the youth and employment opportunities," president of the state unit of BJP Shibun Lyngdoh said on Sunday. 
 
 The regional party NPP, fresh off its conquests, has also been holding election rallies across the state. The biggest of these was held here on Thursday, it launched its election campaign and inducted eight former legislators - including five from Congress. The NPP, helmed by PA Sangma's son  , is emerging as a significant contender to the Congress with its promise of a "new Meghalaya". The party has already announced its first list of candidates.
 
 The state unit of Congress, in the meantime, is in disarray. Battling internal dissent and faced with an exodus of party veterans, it is holding fort but with no apparent strategy to keep its foothold in the state in the upcoming political contest. Former chief minister DD Lapang, who had said he would not contest the election this time, was replaced by Celestine Lyngdoh last week after the exit of five MLAs from the party.   has been made advisor to the party.
 
 Not one to relent, Mukul Sangma is confident that Congress will retain power in the state. "We will come back with even bigger numbers to the new assembly," he said.
 
 
