TRICHY: In a u-turn,   has issued a circular permitting its schools to continue their admission process in the current academic year as usual, bringing much joy and relief to many railway employees and their children. However, it has imposed certain criteria on student strength in class I. The schools which stand to benefit include the mixed railway school functioning from   (GOC) workshop in Trichy 

 A letter circulated to DRMs of Chennai, Palakkad, Madurai, Trichy and Salem by senior personnel officer/welfare of Southern railway, K Janakiram, on May 16 says that the three schools functioning from Villupuram, Jolarpettai and Arakkonam may continue with admissions in the lowest class in operation for the academic year 2018-19 as well as classes above it. For the other six schools functioning from Perambur, Madurai, Palakkad, Ponmalai, Erode and Podanur, admission to class I would be permitted only if there were at least 15 to 20 wards of railway employees. Otherwise, Class I may not be run. In the case of other classes, preferably railway wards might be admitted, the letter added. The circular added that the earlier decision had been revoked based on a representation by   in this regard.
 
 Of the nine schools coming under five railway divisions, Ponmalai and Villupuram schools had been functioning under Trichy railway division. A total of 327 students are enrolled in Ponmalai school where the total strength of staff is 22 including non-teaching. However, railway employees have raised apprehensions on the schools getting the required number of students without admitting outsiders. A majority of the students getting admitted every year were wards of the employees mostly from the north. Local employees did not prefer to admit their children at railway school, they opined.
 
 When asked whether the announcement was only for the current academic year, SRMU assistant general secretary   expressed the hope that the schools across southern railway would function without any interruption. When contacted, school authorities expressed confidence on securing the required number of students to be admitted to Class I for the current year.
 
 
