MARGAO: The water resources department (WRD) has renewed its efforts to cultivate fallow paddy fields in the command area of the Selaulim irrigation project, a segment that includes certain parts of the Quepem, Sanguem and Salcete talukas.

 These fields used to be cultivated only for rain-fed crop, leaving the vast network of channels laid by the WRD largely unutilised, sources in the department said. The WRD’s sustained efforts have, however, started yielding the desired results, as many farmers from the three talukas have begun cultivating their fields in the rabi season (October-March) using canal water.
 
 Shariff Furtado, an agriculture officer posted on deputation to the WRD’s agriculture wing, said a demonstration was held for farmers from Velim, Salcete at the South Goa Krishi Vigyan Kendra. “Each farmer was given 2kg paddy seeds of the Makom variety and one cono weeder to be used on a 100sqm portion of land,” he said. A cono weeder is a hand-operated implement used to control weeds between rows of paddy. Furtado said that as a result of the initiative, paddy was cultivated on around 4,000sqm of agricultural land at Velim. 
 
 But, the challenge in the command area of the Selaulim irrigation project, according to farmers, is the barricading of their fields, as they constitute small parcels of land. 
 
 Girgolin  , a Velim-based farmer who cultivates over 4,000sqm of paddy fields in the rabi season, told TOI she has been also cultivating on those belonging to other farmers during the season to prevent them from lying fallow. “Fencing, however, is a big problem for us. In the absence of it, people are reluctant to cultivate their fields as cattle and other stray animals enter and devour the produce,” she said, going on to rue the delay of release of canal water and its improper supply, which ultimately affects farming activities. 
 
 Fernandes, nevertheless, had a word of praise for officers of the WRD and the agriculture department, who, she said, regularly visited her fields and provided technical guidance. 
 
 WRD sources attribute the lack of interest among farmers to the increase in commercial activities in the command area of the Selaulim irrigation project. “When commercial complexes come up in and around the command area, farmers obviously lose interest in tilling the fields. Earlier, we would refuse NOCs for commercial complexes in the command area. Now, that requirement, too, has been done away with, leading to rise in construction activity,” a senior WRD official told TOI.
 
 Sources said that while 28 water users’ associations exist in the command area, only eight are active. “Water users’ associations can, in fact, take steps for management and maintenance of the irrigation system for effective and reliable supply and distribution of water,” a WRD official said.
 
 Many farmers from Quepem, Sanguem and Salcete talukas have begun cultivating their fields in the rabi season (October-March) using canal water
 
 
