CHENNAI: Mann Kaur, 102 years old, and 100m world champ (bagged at last year’s World Masters Games) has been busy the last couple of weeks, jet-setting from city to city with Milind Soman to launch   2018.

 The little powerhouse from Patiala — who burst into bhangra at Tuesday’s press conference for the Chennai launch of India’s biggest run for women — is a brand ambassador for Pinkathon in aid of breast cancer awareness. Soman, Pinkathon founder, called her one of the country’s most inspirational athletes. Kaur, who never went to school and was domestic help for the king of erstwhile Patiala State, began   at 93, and is trained by her son Gurdev Singh, in his 80s.
 
 “Every morning, without fail, I practise my sprints, one 30m, 40m, 50m and a final 100m. I need to practise to hold on to my world record timing,” she says. The great grandmother lives in Chandigarh on the second floor of a complex with no elevator. “I walk up the stairs, I don’t need a lift,” says Kaur, also a champion javelin thrower. 
 
 Her diet, says Gurdev, consists of kefir (a fermented milk drink) first thing in the morning, followed by a seasonal fruit, a burst of wheatgrass juice, and sprouted wheat chapathis. The world’s fastest centenarian though won’t be running any of the distances at Pinkathon — “I can only sprint, I cannot jog long distances,” says Kaur, whose 100m record is 1m and 14 seconds (just 64 seconds more than Usain Bolt’s record). Every year, the Pinkathon chooses brand ambassadors who inspire. Aruna Devi, a visually impaired Grade 1 revenue officer who will run the 3km, and Sulakshana Badani, breast cancer conquerer who will head the 5km run, are the ambassadors.
 
 The run, which aims to promoter a healthy lifestyle among women, Soman says, offers free medical checkups to participants, free mammograms for those above 45, and even has breastfeeding zones all through the run routes.
 
 Dr A P Subash Kumar, surgical oncologist from Apollo Hospitals, said that by 2020 India is estimated to have the highest incidence of breast cancer in the world. The Pinkathon will be held on August 5 at Island Grounds. Distances include 3km, 5km, 10km and 21km. Website: www.pinkathon.in/chennai.
 
 
