BENGALURU: Energy minister  , Congress’ go-to man, has been made in charge of the party’s campaign committee in poll- bound Karnataka. In an interview to TOI, he says the onus is now on the ruling party MLAs to present the government’s achievements before the   as seeing is believing.

 
 
 
 Voters between 18 and 50 years constitute 65% of the electorate. Those in the age group of 18 to 35 years are the decision makers and are influencing their parents’ choices too. No voter is ready to believe stories or promises; they want assurances to turn into reality. Every voter today is conscious of how he is treated when he steps into a panchayat or a government office and whether his work is done without paying money. This is the new system under our democracy and the Congress has to work towards this end. 
 
 
 
 
 We have delivered 100% and have gone a step ahead. Prime Minister   would not have hosted the Pravasi Bharatiya Divas in Karnataka in 2017 if the state lacked good governance and human resources to attract investors from abroad. He could have opted for Maharashtra or Tamil Nadu. It will fetch the Congress an extra 5% to 10% votes.
 
 
 
 
 Shah was repeating what his party MP Pratap Simha had already said. But this cannot be the Congress’ agenda. In the past four years, there have been no law and order issues or communal riots. BJP will create trouble and exploit a minor riot to its advantage. They did it in other states and succeeded, but can’t do so in Karnataka.
 
 
 
 
 In Karnataka, no leader has come from a movement and has always had to rely on a political background. Besides, no leader has been successful after quitting his parent political party. There are many examples — former CMs D Devaraj Urs, R Gundu Rao, B S Yeddyurappa, S Bangarappa and former PM H D Deve Gowda. They were not successful with the parties they launched. It’s a different ballgame in Karnataka.
 
 
 
 There are various political strategies which all parties adopt. Since chief minister Siddaramaiah commented (the CM said during the IT raids on Shivakumar, he was reportedly asked by the officers to join the BJP) and Yeddyurappa reacted (the BJP does not want a tainted minister), I don’t want to get into any confrontation. My work and style of functioning will answer all these queries. I may also answer them eventually.
 
 
 
 
 Its obvious when a ruling party is going to polls, it will be under the CM’s leadership. If the CM can get us a clear majority, definitely he will have a right to stake claim to the post. I don’t want to confuse anyone or go against my party. I know I will have my days. The party will decide when they will come. Right now, bringing my party back to power is important. If we fight, lakhs of cadres will suffer. I don’t want to be the trigger for their suffering.
 
 
 
 I have drawn up plans, but don’t want to share them with media. I want to demonstrate them. I am ensuring that every booth in the state will have my worker. There are no differences between chief minister Siddaramaiah and   chief G Parameshwara. I am accompanying both of them on their campaigns.
 
 
