JAIPUR: Gang wars returned to   region with a vengeance on Wednesday after a 32-year-old history-sheeter was shot dead in broad daylight by unidentified assailants inside the premises of a local court in   town of Churu district. 

 Ajay Jaitpura, who has as many as 34 cases pending against him in Churu, Jhunjhunu, Jaipur and  , sustained multiple bullet wounds and succumbed to injuries at the hospital.
 
  A similar firing incident was reported from the same court in 2002 when one Sumer Fagodia was shot dead while being taken to the court.
 
 Jaitpura’s advocate Ratan Lal Prajapat and aide Sandeep Gujjar were also injured in the firing, which is suspected to be the handiwork of a rival gang.
 
 Cops said that Jaitpura was involved in illegal liquor trade and had fallen out with his former aides.
 
 The CCTV grab showed two men brandishing pistols and revolvers getting into a jeep and heading towards the Haryana border. The incident has come at a time when the state police are trying to deactivate gangs that have cropped up in the wake of the death of notorious criminal Anandpal Singh.
 
 The incident occurred at 1 pm when Jaitpura was walking to the court with his lawyer and aide. Three unidentified assailants, armed with guns in both hands, barged into the court premises and opened fire at Jaitpura. Police said he received three bullets and succumbed at the hospital.
 
 Police said that they have not ascertained the number of suspects who took part in the attack. “They came in a jeep and parked it outside the court premises. After firing, they went towards the Haryana border. The incident took place in the limits of Rajgarh police station,” Churu SP Barhat Rahul Manhardan informed TOI.
 
 He added that nine accused have been identified and a case has been registered against them. Police said that Jaitpura had as many as 34 cases registered against him. He was currently on bail and regularly visiting the court.
 
 “He was a notorious criminal who joined the world of crime at the age of 23. There are multiple cases registered against him in Churu, Jhunjhunu, Jaipur and Haryana,” said an official, adding that he had walked out on bail 12 days ago.
 
 Police teams swarmed the court premises and armed policemen set up barricades on the interstate border between Rajasthan and Haryana. Lawyers present at the court informed the cops that the total number of assailants could be as high as six to nine.
 
 “We have zeroed in on nine suspects,” Churu SP said, adding that the raids and searches were underway following the crime.
 
 
