NAVI MUMBAI: A day after the decomposed body of a woman was found inside a trunk dumped in a dry drain near Vashigaon, the victim was identified as Kiran Sherpa (50), a food stall owner from  . Residents of the area claim Vashi police have detained an autorickshaw driver in whose vehicle the trunk was allegedly transported on Monday night and launched a search for her adopted son and his friend. 

 Following news reports about the body being found, Sherpa was identified by her food stall partner Beena Thapa and others in the neighbourhood who had informed police on Tuesday about her missing since Monday night. The Vashi police refused to divulge any details of the probe, including whether an auto driver has been detained.
 
 When TOI visited Sherpa's home in Shiv Shakti Nagar along KKR Road in Turbhe Store, the neighbours pointed the finger at her adopted son, Dinesh (aged around 20), and his friend Aslam alias Arjun. Thapa said, "Some women of the neighbourhood saw Dinesh and Aslam dragging a metal trunk from her home to an autorickshaw on Monday night. When they asked him about it, he claimed that it contained his mother's clothes. After the news of her murder was published, the women realised that it was the same metal trunk." The two youths are on the run. 
 
 The trunk was spotted in a drain along Sion-Panvel highway by a security guard of GAIL's control centre as he looked around following a foul smell in the area. 
 
 Thapa further said, "Sherpa was missing from Monday night, so we went to the Turbhe MIDC police station the next day to lodge a complaint. However, the police told us that only her relatives can lodge a complaint and not a third person."
 
 Miraj Ansari (31), a tempo driver from the locality, claimed that the investigators have obtained footage of CCTV cameras installed in the lane of her house and that it showed Dinesh and Aslam dragging the trunk to an autorickshaw. "It seems to be the same trunk in which Sherpa's body was found. Based on the auto's registration number, police detained the driver," Ansari told TOI. 
 
 Another local resident alleged that Dinesh was an alcoholic so he might have committed the murder to rob her. "Aslam was also adopted by a local resident Ahmed bhai, who has now shifted to Bengaluru. We have heard that the police have traced Aslam's mobile phone to Andhra Pradesh," he said.
 
 
