PATIALA: At a time when Sikh bodies are upset over booklets, printed by Nagpur-based publishers, projecting   as ‘gaubhakts’, the Shiromani Akali Dal said they would raise the matter with the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee ( ) instead of its ally BJP or the RSS.

 SAD spokesperson and former education minister Daljit Singh Cheema said he would take up the matter with SGPC instead of RSS or any political party, including its ally BJP.
 
 Cheema said, “The facts of such content including the history of any community should be cross checked as it is a sensitive matter as it can hurt the sentiments of the community. It is not a political matter and is above the party politics.”
 
 When asked if he would raise this matter with its ally BJP or RSS, he said, “SGPC will take note of the issue of distorted facts as it has always done in the past. I would raise this matter with the SGPC president so that the publisher should be held accountable and whoever has distorted the facts is made liable for action.” Cheema said the matter never came into their notice during their 10-year SAD-BJP rule in Punjab.
 
 Declining to comment over the issue,   president Shwait Malik disconnected the call when contacted. Former SGPC president Kirpal Singh Badungar said he was still unaware about the matter and would comment after reading about the same.
 
 Another former SGPC chief Avtar Singh Makkar said a case should be registered against the publishers for hurting the sentiments of the Sikh community.
 
 SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal and additional secretary D S Bedi could not be contacted for their comments. An SGPC member from Fatehgarh Sahib, Karnail Singh Panjoli, said, “I will write to the SGPC and the jathedar of Akal Takht to take note of the objectionable content being published by the RSS. Some years back, the Sangh had landed in a controversy for publishing erroneous content against the Sikh gurus. A case should be registered against the publishers for hurting the Sikh sentiments.”
 
 
