Panaji:   was a surprise acquisition for  .
 
  The Spanish midfielder was the last player to join the Goan franchise but had it not been for an alert from Manuel Lanzarote – who played together at Real Zaragoza last season – he wouldn’t have got here in the first place. At 28, with the kind of skills and CV that he has, Edu should have been plying his trade in Europe. Instead, he finds himself in Goa, entirely out of choice.
  
  “I was tired with what I was doing in Spain. At the end of last season with so much of pressure from fans and media (at Real Zaragoza), I was exhausted mentally. I played most of the games but we didn’t have a good season. There were lot of offers from second division teams in Spain but I didn’t want to do the same thing again. I wanted to try out something different, gather newer experience,” said the Spanish midfielder, one of the gems in the ISL.
  
  Edu is probably an aberration in the Indian Super League which has, at least in the past, attracted a lot of players who are past their sell by date. Still relatively young, and with a wonderful season in Spain just last year, he would have plenty on his plate. For someone who represented Spain at the U-19, U-20 and U-21 levels with distinction, the talent is undeniable. If only anything was missing, it’s the opportunity at the highest level.
  
  Not that he wasn’t in the reckoning. In 2013, he caught the eye of scouts from Barcelona with his technical skills. He joined Barcelona B the same year, and although they finished third in the second division with a very young squad, the call from the seniors at Barcelona never came.
  
  “I’m not disappointed that I couldn’t make the grade (from reserves to the Barcelona senior team),” Edu told TOI at the end of a FC Goa training session at Bambolim on Wednesday.
  
  “Any player who signs for Barcelona B knows that the possibility of moving up is very, very difficult. Maybe one every year. The players who get picked up are among the best in the world. For me, it was all about enjoying myself. I trained a lot with the first team, learnt a lot and made the best possible use of my stint,” said Edu, who trained, should you be interested, in the same half that had the holy trinity of world football:  , Andres Iniesta and a certain Lionel Messi!
  
  When Barcelona came calling in 2013, Edu agrees “you just couldn’t say no to the best club in the world.” A year later, impressed with his showing with the Barcelona reserves, German giants 1860 Munich showed interest. The money on offer was too good to resist and Edu chose to pack his bags for Germany after just a year at Barcelona.
  
  Who knows what might have been had Edu chosen to continue at Barcelona for the second year of his contract. Not that he has any regrets; either at moving to Germany, returning to Spain again and then packing his bags to India.
  
  “I don’t repent. I spent seven years in Spain doing the same thing, same league, same offers. I took everything into account when I moved to India. I am happy here, and if I get a chance to stay for more years, I will happily accept,” said Edu.
  
  Should FC Goa hear this, they will happily hand him a contract extension. With 520 passes in seven regular games, he is among the leading passers in the ISL – only partner Ahmed Jahouh (642) has more – and given his Man-of-the-Match showing against  , he’s only just warming up.
  
  
  
