Want the latest buzz on the gossip front? A peep into the lives of the rich and famous? A wind of Chennai’s best-kept secrets? Writer, activist, anchor, and queen bee   fills you in with all that and then some in this column.

 
  Vaidyanathan, an ardent animal welfare activist and someone who shelters abandoned cattle and dogs at his farm, has partnered with his long-time friend Shankar Vanavarayar, an industrialist from Coimbatore, to curate religious travel experiences. Sethu, who lives in Delhi with his hotelier wife  , visits the nooks and corners of south India to trace out temples and experiences that seem to be attracting a lot of foreigners and members of high society. 
  
  
 
 It seems Sridevi’s sister Srilatha, who is married to one of Chennai’s most well-known advocates Sanjay Ramaswami, is very stressed about the actress’ untimely death and she, it seems, has promised to reveal all soon. In the mean time, some eager-beaver scribes have already made up their version of her story! 
  
  
 
 This city-based designer, known for groping young unsuspecting models, apparently has found a new sugar momma. He often crashes at her residence to meet up with friends over drinks. Often seen moving from group to group, sharing sob stories or how life has been unfair to him (yawwwwn). Last heard, people in the city are wondering about which way he swings. And his close friends are happy to confirm that he still remains “confused”.
  
  
 
 Don’t get me wrong, I don’t mean playgirl as in a girl who is playing the field. But she surely has it all to rock the cover of top glamour magazines. Sameea Bangera’s bold shoot is making some of our city’s models see red as she is on the verge of snatching their market. People here are opening up to fashion and out-of -the-box sensuality as opposed to just bold pouts.
  
  
 This Rajasthan-born designer with a diva’s attitude is whom everyone is queuing up for. Suave and savvy, this dynamo of a girl Sweta Mathur makes wacky yet wearable clothes that Chennai’s swish set can’t get enough of. Her classy couture and “everyday wear” is what a top star goes shopping for in Pondy. It seems her killer good looks, along with her sheer talent, have even won her a prized invitation to host one of India’s premium fashion week franchisees in Pondy.
  
  
 
 This yesteryear actor’s son is causing quite a havoc at lesser-known pubs in town. The young lad, who is known for a ‘blink and you miss it’ appearances in some forgettable films, has been hassling women he meets or gets introduced to at clubs. He adds them on Facebook and harasses them with sweet messages. When someone blocked him, he created multiple fake ids. If only he focused on his career, he wouldn’t have to fake it to impress a woman. 
 
 (Views expressed above are the author’s own) 
 
 
 
  
  
 
