Thiruvananthapuram: The Kerala Lalithakala Akademi is organizing a  , titled  , in association with College Of Fine Arts, Thiruvananthapuram.

 The camp will be held from January 15 to 22 at the College of Fine Arts campus. It will be inaugurated by cultural affairs secretary Rani George at 5pm on Monday.
 
 Chairman of Kerala Lalithakala Akademi Nemom Pushparaj said, “Akhi is dedicated to the victims of cyclone Ockhi. The camp seeks to focus on bridging the gap between contemporary art practices and the kind of art education imparted in India. Either our system of art education fails to incorporate the new or it inordinately ignores the significance of looking at it from a critical position. This state of academic impoverishment, so to speak, is deeply felt across the country. This makes the camp relevant today”.
 
 Akhi offers workshops in various media led by eminent artists of the country, under the joint auspices of the Kerala Lalithakala Akademi and College of Fine Arts, Thiruvananthapuram. It seeks to open up an academic atmosphere for the students to have exposure to the latest trends in contemporary art practices and theoretical discourses as well. “Akhi is the first of its kind initiative in the history of the College of Fine Arts, Thiruvananthapuram and is expected to strike a chord in the respective direction”, said Professor Tensing Joseph, principal of College of Fine Arts, Thiruvananthapuram.
 
 The camp led by noted resource persons in different creative media will have around fifty student participants hailing from major art institutions across the country such as College of Art, Delhi; MS University, Baroda; Banaras Hindu University etc. 
 
 As a part of the national camp, there will be open forums, slide presentations and cultural programmes on each day. Renowned artists like Indrapramid Roy, T V Santhosh, Prasenjith Ganguly, K G Jayan, Sumithabha Pal and R Nandakumar will lead various sessions.
 
 Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the valedictory function on January 22. He will inaugurate the closing ceremony at 4.30pm on the same day.
 
 
