PUNE:   Defence Academy ( ) has fallen back on golden oldies to motivate its fresh recruits. 

 It has, for the first time, roped in the services of senior veterans, who passed out of the academy almost half a century ago, to inspire the rookies. A senior NDA officer told TOI, "We had organised a two-day interactive session for the 139 course cadets with veterans from the 39 course. The idea was to motivate cadets to continue with their training." 
 
 As many as 70 veterans, including former air chief N A K  , Brig Shyam Lal and others, interacted with the cadets who have newly joined on January 5 and 6.
 
 "For the first time, NDA has taken such an initiative. Having frank interaction with veterans, who have spent decades in their particular services, will definitely help the cadets. I feel NDA cadets are highly motivated and they need to be guided properly at the initial stage of their training and such session will serve the purpose," Browne said.
 
 On cadets dropping out of the academy owing to gruelling training regime, the former air chief said, "The adverse publicity to NDA training is unfortunate. The training at the academy is done with a proper approach and it has delivered desired results for the armed forces."
 
 A senior NDA officer said, "Between 5 and 10 cadets from each course leave the academy due to various reasons. There are a very few complaints particularly related to training. Most cadets leave the academy for better prospects. As far as training is concerned, it is evaluated by experts on a regular basis and, if required, certain changes are carried out."
 
 The participants at the 39 NDA course had the honour of being commissioned as officers a month prior to the completion of their training in Nov 1971 as ominous war clouds gathered over the sub-continent. Immediately on being commissioned, these young men moved directly to the battlefield where they distinguished themselves with great honour and valour. In fact, two young officers of the batch laid down their lives even before they drew their first salary.
 
 
