There is little chance that you would have heard of 25-year-old Nilima Jagannath Selote who is posted as a forest guard in Naxal-affected and the remote area of Sironcha in Gadchiroli Circle. She was one of the several women honoured in Pune as ‘Leading Lady’ on International Women’s Day.  Selote joined the forest department in 2011 and was posted in the sensitive Amdeli beat in Sironcha. An outstanding sportsperson, she has also undergone commando training in jungle tactics and survival course at Gadchiroli. She was also adjudged best beat guard in Gadchiroli Forest Circle in 2016 and wildlife service award recognition in 2017. Excerpts from an interview with Selote... Q. How do you feel on receiving the award? A. It is really a great honour that my work in a forest-rich region, which is always in news for wrong reasons, has been recognized. It is a moment of pride for my family and also the forest department. Q. What special efforts did you take? A. The beat where I’m posted is vulnerable to timber mafia which is involved in felling precious teak and transporting it to neighbouring Telangana through illegal means. My colleagues and I took on this mafia and have seized at least 150 cubic metre wood worth Rs60 lakh. We used to ambush these smugglers even during night hours. Having undergone commando training, at times I’ve always remained in the forefront. Now an intelligence network has been developed and there is drastic fall in felling and smuggling activities. Q. Is curbing illicit felling the only area of focus? A. No. Though felling is the biggest issue, I have been instrumental in ensuring that rights and privileges of people are protected. We also have to frequently inspect fire stations or climb tall places for inspecting forest fires and extinguish them promptly. Besides, the role also includes detection of poaching, harvesting of forest produce, raise a nursery of forest plants, raise awareness among villagers for forest protection and conservation, encourage local people for joint forest management (JFM) and conserve biodiversity. Q. Were you the only one from forest department to receive the award? A. Yes. There were other women from art and culture, sports, social work, industry and other fields, I was the only one to be chosen under social category from the state forest department. I was specially recognized for my role for working in most hostile area. Q. Despite knowing the occupational hazards, why did join forest service? A. I was adventurous and bold since my childhood. I was born and brought up in areas where forest was part of life. I always used to think that forest and wildlife protection can be better done if you have powers to implement the laws. Hence, I did not miss the first opportunity that came up to serve forest even before my graduation. I later completed my graduation from open university. Q. Are you not scared to work in Naxal-hit Sironcha? A. When I joined here at 19, I used to feel scared, especially when male colleagues used to ask will new women guards be able to take on timber mafia and patrol the forest. I have overcome the initial fears now. When many don’t want to be posted here and consider it as punishment, I’m seeking a second term here. I have taken it as a challenge. Senior officials, including Gadchiroli chief conservator (CCF) WI Yatbon and my divisional boss deputy conservator Tushar Chavan, always boost morale. My parents too support me. Q. What are the challenges of working in Sironcha? A. Working in Left-wing extremism stronghold is the biggest challenge followed by taking on timber mafia. It is a day and night duty requirement where we have to face physical hardship to reach undulated terrain and at time require to cross waterways. Remote posting from home and that too without basic facilities and amenities and lack of communication are some tough issues. Another major hurdle is the language as here most of the people speak in Telugu and Madia. Q. What impact have you been able to make? A. With regular patrolling and action against mafia, we have been successfully controlling illicit teak felling. In my area of operations, plantations have been raised successfully in 200 hectares in open patches to increase tree cover. Besides, there is increased people’s participation in forest management. Alternative livelihood generation is being done for tribals by way of incense stick (agarbatti) manufacturing, mahua processing and bamboo handicraft project. Regular action has led to drastic fall in smuggling of valuable teak. Besides, soil and moisture conservation work has resulted in improving cropping pattern and better yield. Q. You have undergone commando training and use of weapons. A. I have taken commando training for self-defence. Use of weapons is to curb inter-state teak smuggling racket. Though I’ve never come across Naxals face-to-face, there is constant fear of an encounter. There have been occasions when they ask to stop forestry works through posters, banners and pamphlets. Skirmishes with teak smugglers is regular in the beat. They attack with stones and axes. Here the commando training has been useful. Q. What needs to be done for women guards in such areas? A. Apart from regular arms training, the staff should be trained in martial art forms like taekwondo or judo. There should also be some mental training on how to remove fear. Q. Are your colleagues reluctant to work with you? A. In my six years of work, seniors have been always cooperative and supportive in office as well as in field.