GHAZIABAD: Police, fire brigade and GDA joined a massive 24-hour effort to rescue a puppy from a 27-feet borewell at a housing society in Indirapuram, but the dog could not be saved despite the efforts.

 It all started on Sunday afternoon when some children of   in Indirapuram allegedly threw the puppy into the borewell after opening its safety cover.
 
 “We got to know that few mischevious kids threw a puppy into the borewell by tampering with its cover,” said PK Banerjee, president, RWA Shipra Riveria. “I immediately called representative of an NGO-Helping Hands for Animals, who is also a resident of the society,” said Banerjee.
 
 Udit Ranjan, a member of Helping Hands for Animals, said, “We found ourselves in a helpless situation where we could do nothing to save the poor puppy whimpering in pain. We soon got into the act and called officials from district administration, police and fire department and they soon reached the spot.”
 
 The agencies delployed all the resources they could. “We knew that we were racing against time as the borewell was dark and we could not see anything and soon it was going to be dark,” said Somdut Sonkar, fire safety officer, Vaishali. “First we dropped a rope with an open box tied and hoped to pull up the animal, we even plied glue hoping that animal would stick but even that failed,” he added.
 
 It was then that the representatives from the NGO took the rescue operation in their own hands. “We decided to dig up a parallel hole with a width enough for a man to descend but by that time GDA had sent an earth mover,” said Ranjan. “But the earthmover could not come to the site as the lane to the society was very narrow. So we started digging hole with whatever we could find. We had reached 20 feet but were stopped by the authorities.” 
 
 SK Chauhan, executive engineer and GDA in charge said, “We did what we could have done but allowing to dig 27 feet trench was out of question. Had the dug up earth caved in, it would have trapped anyone who was trying to descend. We explored all the possibilities and a team from fire department, police and from GDA were stationed for the whole night at the site.” However, by then the dog had died. 
 
 
