NEW DELHI: Rajya Sabha chairman 
  the Congress-led opposition parties' notice to remove the   saying it lacked substantial merit.

 Here are the reactions from BJP leader, Congress leaders, and others: 
 
 In a press conference, 
  said that his party will file a petition in the Supreme Court.
 
  "We'll certainly file a petition (in Supreme Court) against this and would want the CJI to not take any decision with respect to it, be it the listing or anything else, we'll accept whatever SC decides," he said.
 
 Following Sibal's remark, 
  addressed the media and said the Congress has history of disrupting democratic institutions.
 
 "Congress party has a long history of disrupting institutions of democracy. The rule of law cannot be confused with the rule of dynasty," she said in a press conference.
 
 
 said Naidu decided correctly.
 
 "He has decided correctly. He need not have taken two days to make the decision. It should've been considered null and void and thrown out from the beginning. Congress committed suicide by doing this," said Swamy to ANI news agency. 
 
  
  
 
  A Shiv Sena leader wondered why Naidu acted so quickly.
 
 "Both the parties are playing dirty politics and the way the   was rejected is also political. He could have waited, such hurry in rejection was not needed," said 
  to ANI.
 
 
  said immediately after the news of Naidu's rejection that it and other opposition parties will talk to some legal experts and take the next step.
 
  
  
 
 "This is a really important matter. We don't know what was the reason for the rejection. Congress and other opposition parties will talk to some legal experts and take the next step," said Punia.
 
 
  said the Rajya Sabha chairman cannot adjudicate on the notice. 
 
 "Constitutional process of impeachment is set in motion with 50 MP's giving the motion. RS chairman can't adjudicate the motion, for he has no mandate to decide the merits of the motion. This is truly a fight between forces 'Rejecting Democracy' & voices 'Rescuing Democracy'," tweeted Surjewala.
 
  
  
 The Congress spokesman further wondered whether Naidu's rejection amounted to a "revenge order.
 
 "Within hours of 64 MP's submitting the impeachment motion, Leader of Rajya Sabha (finance minister Arun Jaitley) had expressed naked prejudice by calling it a 'revenge petition' virtually dictating the verdict to Rajya Sabha Chairman on that day. Has 'Revenge Petition' now become 'Rescue Order'?" asked Surjewala.
 
 He further charged that the Constitution is being muzzled.
 
  
  
 
  said everybody knew the notice would be rejected by Naidu.
 
 "Surprise surprise !! Everybody knew the Impeachment Motion would be rejected by   ji . More constitutional remedies are available including challenging this rejection in the SC. The Impeachment grounds are not for the Vice President to decide upon", tweeted Poonawalla.
 
  
  
 
  Poonawalla further tweeted what he expects will happen if the Congress decided to move the Supreme Court.
 
 "If the MPs move the honourable SC against this rejection of the impeachment motion by the vice president Venkaiah Naidu ji, the honourable Chief Justice   will not be able to hear the plea or forward it to another bench. This will be decided by the next senior-most judge," tweeted Poonawalla. 
 
  
  
 
  welcomed Naidu's decision to reject the impeachment notice against Misra, saying he has "rightly applied his mind".
 
 * "He (Naidu) has gone into the matter and has found no merit in it and no ground for impeachment, therefore, he rejected it. I don't see chances of the writ petition (challenging the VP's decision) succeeding," said Sorabjee, reported PTI.
 
 
 said the submission of the notice wasn't a wise decision.
 
 "You know you don't have any ground, you know you can't impeach him. In spite of knowing all that still you go on and plunge in this ill-advised move. This can't be considered as a wise act," said Justice Sodhi.
 
 
 
