Amritsar: Twenty-seven-year-old Harjit Masih, a resident of Kala Afghana village in Punjab’s Gurdaspur district, wonders why the Union government did not believe his account that 39 Indians abducted by the Islamic State in Mosul, Iraq, on June 11, 2014, had been killed within days of their abduction.

 Masih claims to be the only Indian who managed to pull off a miraculous escape from the clutches of the IS while his fellow workers were shot dead.
 
 He had been among 40 Indians and 51 Bangladeshis who were abducted by the IS in Mosul. The IS terrorists separated the abducted workers into two groups — they detained the Indians in an abandoned textile factory in Mosul, but allowed the Bangladeshis to leave.
 
 Masih questioned the Union government’s motive for subjecting him to interrogation and detention after his return and for building false hopes of the relatives of 39 youths who he had seen being shot dead by the IS.
 
 Masih, who now works in Gurdaspur grain market as a labourer, insisted his version was the correct one despite the Centre not believing him. “I have been telling the truth all this time. I was jailed for six months. Who will compensate for that? The government should have trusted me,” he said.
 
 Masih’s family had taken a loan of Rs 1.5 lakh to send him to Iraq, where he worked as a pipe fitter in a construction company.
 
 Recalling his horrifying experience, he told TOI on Tuesday that the group’s abductors took all of them to an unknown place outside Mosul on June 15, 2014. After travelling for some time, he recalled, the terrorists stopped the vehicles and ordered all of them to get down and stand in a queue.
 
 “They took cash and mobile phones from everyone, we were nervous and scared, we prayed them to let us go with folded hands, but they didn’t listen,” Masih said, adding that the men in the group had offered to embrace Islam, if their lives were spared. However, the IS terrorists did not respond to their offer. “They didn’t listen to anyone and forced us to lie on ground and started spraying bullets,” Masih said, adding that he realised that he was alive only after 15-20 minutes.
 
 “I was hit by a bullet in leg. After shooting us all, the IS men left, considering us dead. I ran for safety and reached Erbil, about 88 km from Mosul. It was from there that I called up my brother Robin in India and told him about the incident,” he added.
 
 
