NEW DELHI: Delhi Police’s   cell received 670 complaints in 2017 — of these, 247 were investigated. They registered 191 FIRs following the investigations and arrested 146 people. Building on the success, Delhi   plan to revamp the cyber cell into a dedicated full-time unit this year.

 Police commissioner   launched a website for the cyber safety unit, making   a one-stop window in this genre of crime. A dedicated cyber lab was also constituted to provide assistance in such cases. 
 
 The cell roped in 723 computer teachers from 577 schools to create awareness among youngsters, Patnaik said. This assumes significance considering children constitute a vulnerable group in the cyber sphere — online games, such as Blue Whale, have been held responsible for a number of deaths across the globe.
 
 Special commissioner (crime) R P Upadhyay said: “The cyber cell focused on solving bank fraud cases wherein borrowers had duped lenders using devious means, causing enormous losses and creating non-performing assets.”
 
 To strengthen the cyber unit, the Economic Offences Wing has been training its staff with cyber experts dealing with the banks, the   and the National Stock Exchange. EOW was also tasked with “conducting training programmes for capacity building of officers posted with police stations in which 1,125 cops from various ranks were trained by the unit”. 
 
 Rajan Bhagat, DCP, CRO, said: “Monthly training of IOs from police stations has also been conducted to probe cybercrime cases at the police station level. The unit trained 509 policemen at EOW and 362 men at the police training college.”
 
 In another step, Delhi Police’s cyber unit contacted Facebook and asked the social media major to remove from its various platforms the hashtag used to search for the notorious Blue Whale game, a suicide game wherein a group of administrators, or a certain curator, gives a participant a task to complete daily, for a period of 50 days — the finale of which is the participant committing suicide. 
 
 A specific mobile application for easy reporting of real estate frauds was also created; it was called the Property Theft App. It facilitates lodging of FIR in cases where a property is “stolen” at any time, without going to the police station. The app generates the case diary and applies the section of law for the registration of an FIR.
 
 
