CHANDIGARH: The   is in the process of introducing 75% to 80% quota in Class XI for Chandigarh students in government schools. The department is also working towards making the entire system online.

 
 The UT district education officer has sent the proposal to director school education. A meeting to take the final decision will be held this week.
 
 The move comes after thousands of city-based students were left without admissions even after seventh round of counselling in Class XI in 2017-18. The department had to conduct another round of counselling and also increase the seats to accommodate students, disturbing the studentteacher ratio.
 
 
 For deciding on the exact percentage to be given to Chandigarh-based students under the quota, district education officer   had recently asked schools for the total strength of Class XI students. Forty government model and non-model senior secondary schools had informed that around 21% students out of the total strength were from outside Chandigarh. Based on it, the percentage to be reserved will be decided.
 
 
  is also planning to change the system of admitting students. At present, a centralised online system is used, which showed discrepancies during the admission session in 2017. Kaur has already got Class X trained in filling online forms and has spoken to SPIC for giving option of filling forms at the e-sampark centres for students.
 
 
 Kaur said, “A proposal has been sent for introducing quota and also to make the entire admission system online. The online system will save manpower and will also make the system error-free, which is not the case at present wherein students first fill the form and then the details are uploaded online. Everything will be online now. It would cut down the need of multiple counselling sessions, a hassle for students and schools.”
 
 
 A move that will benefit students of Chandigarh will prove negative for students coming from Panchkula and Mohali. Sunita Bisht, a resident of Sector 7, Panchkula, said, “I was planning to admit my child in Chandigarh but this quota system will lower his chances.” However, it would benefit Panchkula and Mohali based schools that had been writing to administration in this regard as they were not getting enough students in Class XI.
 
