Vadodara/ Anand: Elders usually scoff at the idea of youngsters falling in love during their student life. On Tuesday, however, Purvi Patel and Harsh Patel, students of Anand Agricultural University (AAU) proved them wrong. 

 The duo – both of them – hailing from family of farmers not only fell in love while studying of their bachelors in agriculture studies but have also graduated with flying colours. 
 
 As Purvi, 22, bagged as many as nine gold medals after finishing her BSc (agriculture) studies, which was present to her during the 14th annual convocation ceremony held at AAU’s gymkhana ground, an elated Harsh was brimming with joy at his fiancé feat. 
 
 “Since, the time we fell in love, everyone was warning me that my grades will fall. But my grades have actually improved. In fact, till I met Purvi, I was just an average student but now I have passed with first class,” said Harsh, 22, who got engaged with Purvi around a year and a half back.
 
 “It is just a myth that you cannot score well if you are in love. In fact, love provides you more strength to achieve your goals,” agreed Purvi, who received the gold medals in presence of both her parents and to-be in-laws who were part of the audience that cheered her achievement. 
 
 At a time when many youth across the country are turning away from farming, this love birds who are presently pursuing their masters at AAU, have decided to use their lab experience in farms after they tie nuptial knot in January next year.
 
 “Harsh wants to promote organic farming and both of us will utilise our studies to achieve this,” said Purvi, a masters of science in plant pathology student and daughter of farmer turned advocate Subhash Patel, who is presently based in Anand.
 
 “I have seen my father Jitendra Patel using advanced technologies and earning rich dividends from cultivating potatoes and groundnut on our 65 acre farm. My uncle Bhavesh Patel, who himself was a farmer, had earned a gold medal in MSc agriculture in 1998 and with Purvi’s help we will further secure a bright future through farming,” said Harsh, a native of Dolpur Kampa village of Aravalli district’s Dhansura taluka. 
 
 A total of 664 students were conferred degrees in various streams including agriculture, veterinary, dairy science, food processing and technology at AAU’s convocation in which Dr Anil Kumar Shrivastava, chairman of the Agriculture Scientist Recruitment Board, New Delhi, and former director of the National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal, was the chief guest while Gujarat governor O P Kohli presided over the function. 
 
 
