Times News Network

 Panaji: Alarmed by the high number of crimes against girl children and women in the country, the   Development Society has begun sensitizing students on   equality in   schools in Goa and government schools in Karnataka and Maharashtra too.
 
 Students in standard VIII, IX and XI are being taken through four sessions to sensitize them on gender equality and promote better relationships, mutual understanding and mutual respect between boys and girls.
 
 Each of the students is being provided with a book on ‘Gender Equality & Gender Equity Among Young People’ dedicated “to all the women who contribute to the society and to the girl children who were killed at birth”.
 
 The students are familiarized with the country’s sex ratio, gender stereotypes, female foeticide and infanticide, gender equality at home, in society, in politics, religion, at the workplace, in school and among widows. They are also taught about gender discrimination during the pre-British era, gender equality in India in comparison with global indices and are made aware of the constitutional provisions, rights and legislations concerning women as well as the legal rights of women.
 
 Fr Laurence Monteiro, executive director Konkan Development Society said the biases against the female gender must go. The program he said will help bring about awareness in children which is when they are most receptive. They will carry these values on with them throughout their lives, he says.
 
 Nirmala Rebello says the aim of the program is equity as well as awareness that boys and girls must have equal opportunities and access to facilities. “Goa is one of the safer states for women, yet there is a need to work towards gender sensitivity,” she said.
 
 The society is trying to reach out to 2000 children within the next four months beginning with its own Salesian institutions in Tuem, Paliem, Sulcorna, Quepem and across the border too.
 
 The society that is in its 12th year of empowering the disadvantaged and marginalized through various programs in Goa, four districts in Maharashtra and eight in Karnataka will be unveiling new projects for the year at Institute Menezes Braganza on Saturday.
 
 KDS has been running primary schools for economically and socially disadvantaged children, providing remedial teaching and care and protection to ensure students stay in school, initiated self-help groups to encourage women to be a part of the work force through skill training, finance and market linkage training among other programs.
 
 
