PATNA: The 69th   was celebrated at Patna high court, security establishments and railway offices amid patriotic fervour on Friday. The tricolour fluttered at these places proudly amid melodious strains of the national anthem.

 Chief Justice of Patna high court   unfurled the tricolour in front of the main building of the court in presence of judges and registrars.
 
 At the   sector headquarters, IG M S Bhatia unfurled the tricolour. Speaking on the occasion, he said CRPF played a key role in maintaining internal security in the country and containing Maoist attacks in Bihar and other states.
 
 IG of Sashastra Seema Bal’s Patna frontier Sanjay Kumar hoisted the national flag at the sector headquarters in Muzaffarpur. At frontier headquarters in Patna, DIG   hoisted the national flag.
 
 Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) DIG S N Singh hoisted the flag at zonal headquarters in Patna. He urged the officers and personnel to maintain highest level of discipline in the force which guards several vital installations in the state and other parts of the country.
 
 Colonel J S Chauhan, principal of Sainik School in Gopalganj, hoisted the national flag on the school campus. He also inspected the parade commanded by cadet Ashwani Chauhan. Colonel Chauhan emphasized on character building for students.
 
 East Central Railway (ECR) AGM Anup Kumar hoisted the national flag at its headquarters in Hajipur. Several railway officials, employees and members of women welfare organizations attended the function. An impressive parade by the   personnel was the centre of attraction.
 
 Kumar highlighted achievements of railways in Bihar. “ECR earned about Rs 11,536 crore in the first three quarters of the current fiscal, which is around 17.3% more than previous year’s earnings during the same period,” he said, adding railways initiated various steps to check alarm chain pulling in all the five divisions of ECR.
 
 Danapur DRM Ranjan Prakash Thakur hoisted the national flag at his office in   on the outskirts of Patna. 
 
 
