MYSURU: Languages should bring people together, not divide them, Union minister   said while inaugurating the new premises of the Centre of Excellence for Studies in Classical Kannada at the Central Institute of   here on Monday.

 “Alag bhasha, alag vesh lekin phir bhi yeh apna desh (different languages, different clothes yet India is our country). Much needs to be done to preserve the dying languages of India. CIIL is necessary to develop and preserve the languages in India,” Javadekar said. “Bhasha logon ko jodne ke liye hai todne ke liye nahi (language should unite people not divide them).”
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Announcing that the central government would sanction funds to build the   at the   campus, he said, “The job of the government is to support good projects and back good activities. I will sanction the money for the Kannada centre and any other language centre which will be set up by CIIL.”
 
 The minister said children should be taught at least three languages. “Apart from learning our mother tongue and English we should all learn at least two other languages of our country,” he said, citing research that children below five years are able to pick up several languages. If children learn many languages during their initial years, their cognitive abilities develop better, he added.
 
 Batting for study material to be made available in the mother tongue to facilitate learning he said, “Israel with a population of 80 lakh people has engineering and medical subject material in Hebrew which has advantaged them. Similarly, in India, we should have subject material in our native languages to facilitate learning.”
 
 Urging CIIL to share the data of 22 languages with global players like Google, the minister said, “The purpose of knowledge is to share. I urge CIIL to share the data with Google and other global players and work out a revenue model in order to spread these languages.” Knowledge, he added, was no longer in books but on digital platforms.
 
 “Over 1.5 lakh Kannada books of the University of Mysore will be made available to the classical Kannada centre which will boost research,” University of Mysore in-charge VC professor C Basavaraju said. 
 
 Automatic machine translation
 
 Machine translation is set to get a leg up with Google and other global giants set to get linguistic data on 22 languages. “Data compiled by the CIIL over the last eight years will be shared by the global giants as the HRD ministry has directed us to devise a revenue model through which these languages can be used by tech giants. This will only save these languages in the coming days,” said L Ramamurthy of the Linguistic Data Consortium for Languages (LDCL). “We will be partnering with digital firms as languages are structured along with nouns, verbs and annotations of over 80,000 words which will ensure errors in translation will be marginally reduced,” added Ramamurthy.
 
 Ready to discuss KSOU
 
 Union minister Javadekar said he was not aware of the KSOU developments but said he was open to discussing the issue with students and arriving at a “logical conclusion”. He regretted the inconvenience caused to students due to the uncertainty over their degrees.
 
 
