LUCKNOW: The 11-year-old girl student of   who is under the scanner for attacking her junior vehemently denied any involvement in the case. She claimed that she learnt of the incident only on Wednesday through news channels. 

 Talking exclusively to TOI, the girl, who was arrested on Thursday but granted bail on Friday, said that she left home at 9.30am for school on Tuesday and reached at 9.45am. After   at 10am, she went to the classroom. 
 
 "I was with all my classmates all along. Anybody can testify," she said. "It was in the third period (computer studies) that some teachers came to the class and asked boys and girls to form   and come out of the lab," she said. 
 
 Then, she said, all the boys and girls were frisked. 
 
 "Thereafter, teachers picked four girls who had short hair and different hair styles. We were asked to give our names and told to come to school on Wednesday with our parents. We were not told the reason," she added. Then she went home. 
 
 "Around 4.30pm, some teachers came to my home and started interrogating me. They asked questions like 'tell us whatever you have done, else we will not be able to save you'. My mother asked them the reason but the teachers kept mum and left," she said.
 
 On Wednesday, she went to school with her mother and as soon as she reached, she was asked to report to the library where three   came and strip-searched her. 
 
 "They told me that they have sought permission from my father. I agreed but felt humiliated and began to cry. Then, one of the teachers chopped my hair," claimed the girl.
 
 "Later, I saw some mediapersons entering the school and hustle-bustle around the auditorium. I was made to wait inside the auditorium and then handed over to my mother. We came home," she said. At 2.45pm, I switched on the television and saw about the incident in my school in the news. Only then could I make sense of the entire turn of events," she claimed. 
 
 "In the evening, my father got a call from SHO Aliganj. Later, a woman sub-inspector and constable took me to  . I was taken to the injured boy. I heard him saying that he doesn't recognise me," she claimed. 
 
 "After that, I was sent home. Police kept visiting till late in the night. The next day, I was arrested and sent to the observation home," she said.
 
 
