CHENNAI: Former chief minister J Jayalalithaa's portrait was unveiled in the Tamil Nadu assembly on Monday amidst strident protests from opposition parties, which boycotted the event saying it was against the House tradition to honour "someone who was convicted in a corruption case". The assembly hall was crowded with AIADMK partymen besides party legislators, all occupying the opposition benches as well. The seat usually occupied by the leader of opposition M K Stalin remained vacant. 

 The function began at 9.30am with the customary 'Tamil thai vazhthu' (homage to Tamil mother). This was followed by welcome address by deputy speaker Pollachi Jayaraman, who was effusive in his praise for Jayalalithaa. At 9.40am, speaker P Dhanapal unveiled the 7ft long and 5ft wide portrait painted by former Government Arts College principal R Mathiazhagan. 
 
 As is the norm for portraits of leaders in the assembly, Jayalalithaa's portrait bore the slogan 'Peace, Prosperity and Growth'. It holds position on the wall across the opposition benches and among 11 political stalwarts and leaders like Mahatma Gandhi, Periyar E V Ramasamy, B R Ambedkar, Muthuramalinga Thevar and two former chief ministers K Kamaraj and C N Annadurai. 
 
 AIADMK MLAs and MPs from   and   were in full attendance. Lok Sabha deputy speaker M Thambidurai was seated on a make-shift stage along with chief minister  , deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam and the speaker. Soon after the unveiling of the portrait, the AIADMK propaganda song in praise of Jayalalithaa blared out. Excited partymen raised slogans in praise of the former chief minister.
 
 AIADMK presidium chairman E Madhusudanan, who occupied the chair of deputy leader of opposition  , and party veterans P H Pandian, C Ponnaiyan and K P Munusamy (in dark glasses due to conjunctivitis) were present. Notable absentees were R K Nagar MLA T T V Dhinakaran and his MLA supporters. 
 
 Deputy CM Panneerselvam recalled his association with Jayalalithaa and said soon after her death, the party was like a boat struggling in choppy waters. He said the party's government will continue and budgets will be presented each year. CM Palaniswami said his government is being run by "Jayalalithaa as God". Dhanapal spoke about two gardens - Ramavaram Gardens and Poes Garden - which influenced him. The speaker praised Jayalalithaa for strictly adhering to assembly rules. 
 
 As per assembly rules, mobile phones are not permitted in the hall. But, on Monday, the rules were relaxed. Soon after the national anthem was played signalling the end of the function, partymen vied with one another to take selfies with Jayalalithaa's portrait in the background. 
 
 
