Jagadeesan Narayan, the 22-year-old wicket keeper batsman from Coimbatore is on cloud nine after being picked by the   in the recently concluded   ( ) auction. The leading run scorer of   2016 (Tamil Nadu Premiere League) just can’t stop gushing about playing for  . CT caught up with the youngster for a brief chat..

  “I knew that my number was 181 and I was sitting right in front of the television when the auction was going on. I was quite anxious and was hoping that someone would pick me because I did well in the trials. Eventually I got selected by CSK (Chennai Super Kings). I am really excited and I can’t wait to share the dressing room with all the legends. The team is filled with experienced players and by getting to know how each of them approach a game or plan their innings, it will be a big learning experience for me,” shares Jagadeesan.
 
  The youngster admits that he didn’t have a go to team during auction. “From 2008, CSK has been one of the most successful teams, so it feels really great that I am going to represent CSK. When you have   in the team, what more do you want? It’s a dream come true for me. I am going to mature and grow as a cricketer before the season is over.”
 
  Jagadeesan has always looked up to MS Dhoni. Being a wicket keeper batsman himself, what does he think he would learn from Dhoni? “Everyone knows how smart he is behind the wicket and being alongside him during the practise sessions and by merely looking at him, I can enhance my keeping skills and how I think behind the wickets. I can also learn how to prepare myself before a big match. I have always admired his presence of mind on the field. He is someone who knows what is going on around him and has probably been the best behind the wickets in terms of thinking and glove work.”
 
  Jagadeesan credits Tamil Nadu Premier League (TNPL) for playing a major role in shaping his career. “TNPL brought me to the limelight and helped me grow as a player. Before TNPL, I wasn’t playing much of competitive T20 cricket. The kind of mind set you need to have before playing T20 game is totally different when compared to how you approach a test or ODI game. I have learned how to approach T20 game from TNPL.”
 
  He adds, “Even payers like   and   got the due recognition through TNPL. Both of them got the opportunity to play in IPL. Washington even went on to play for the country. If you perform well in IPL, you will definitely grab the attention of national selectors.” 
 
  Coming back to CSK, the youngster says he is ready to play any kind of role that would help the team. “I will get to know the role only when I am with the team. But, I am ready to play any kind of role the team requires me to. For the Tamil Nadu team, I was the opening batsman last year. This season, I played the role of a finisher. It is extremely important to have an open mind as a player to grow.”
 
  “I will just play my natural game. Even in test matches, I won’t let the loose balls away and be too defensive. I look to score runs of the loose balls. So my strike rate would be around 60 in a test match. I also believe you can always score runs playing orthodox shots as these shots fetch you runs consistently rather than the fancy shots. If you look at any league’s leading run scorer, mostly it will be a batsman who would be playing cultured shots,” he says. 
 
  Jagadeesan believes there is a lot of talent in Coimbatore, “Talent is in abundance. There are so many players who are playing well. When you look at other districts and Coimbatore, you can see a lot of players from the city playing for many leagues in Chennai and TNPL.”
 
 
