BENGALURU: Ninety minutes, and maybe some more, separate   from scripting yet another golden chapter in the history of Indian football when they lock horns with former champions   in the final of the   here on Saturday night. Handshakes and pleasantries will be exchanged but no quarter will be given as Bengaluru and Chennaiyin’s tempestuous rivalry will again take centre stage at the packed Sree Kanteerava Stadium.

 
 
 
 Having won four titles in four years - I-League (2014, 2016) and Federation Cup (2015, 2017) - since their inception, the Blues are undoubtedly the favourites to wear the   crown in their debut season. A win in Saturday’s blockbuster showdown will also make them the first home team to clinch the title after FC Goa’s and Kerala Blasters’ failures in 2015 and 2016.
 
 All eyes will be on Bengaluru’s iconic attackers Venezuelan Miku and skipper  , who have accounted for 27 of the club’s 38 goals so far. Defensively, the Blues have conceded only 17 goals in 20 games and are on a 10-match unbeaten run in the ISL, having won eight of those games as well.
 
 
 
 “It’s a great moment for the players, the club, and more importantly for the city,” Coach Albert Roca said on Friday. “Right from the start, we knew how difficult it would be to get here. We are prepared for the most difficult game of the season. Chennaiyin have shown lot of quality and talent so we are not expecting an easy game. We will have to control our emotions,” he added.
 
 There is no one better to stop the Bengaluru juggernaut than 2015 champions Chennaiyin, a team that has impressed with their defensive resilience and work ethic. Their ability to break down the strongest of oppositions was on display against the fancied FC Goa in the semifinals, a game where the latter’s possession play was no match for Chennayin’s resolute midfield. Another team that thrives on possession? Bengaluru.
 
 Having already lodged a 2-1 win over the Blues at the boisterous Kanteerava in the league stage, Chennaiyin coach John Gregory said his boys were ready for a fight. “The fact that we’ve won here before gives us great confidence. We know what to expect from the partisan crowd, the atmosphere… We know they are not infallible at home. Whilst we have utmost respect for them for everything they’ve achieved, we’re Chennaiyin,” he said, pausing briefly to re-emphasize what came next. “We are not afraid of anybody.”
 
 Gregory was well aware of the threat that Miku and Chhetri posed, but he was confident of shutting them out like how his boys dominated Goa’s attacking linchpins Ferran Corominas and Manuel Lanzarote in their second leg semifinal at home. “Chhetri and Miku’s performances have been similar to Coro’s and Lanza’s. But on Tuesday night, we kept them quiet. We need to do the same for Chhetri and Miku tomorrow,” the former Aston Villa coach said. 
 
 Bengaluru will be without the injured Harmanjot Khabra and left-back Subhasish Bose, who is suspended for the final. Chennaiyin have a full squad at their disposal, including players such as Mailson Alves, Raphael Augusto, Karanjit Singh and skipper Jeje Lalpekhlua, who were part of the 2015 title-winning squad. 
 
 Both teams are proficient in set-pieces and scoring late. Chennaiyin have scored 13 goals from set-pieces - the highest among teams this season - and have struck 42 percent of their goals in the final 15 minutes. But Gregory is not ready to rule out Bengaluru’s prowess. “Bengaluru come up with a new set-piece every game, they barely repeat it… the game could be decided by one. And with the quality of the teams on the field tomorrow, I think the tie will be decided in 90 minutes,” he said. Over to the Kanteerava.
 
