NEW DELHI: A network of   who duped several   seeking a job in the   is on the radar of Delhi Police. A probe was initiated after a youth complained of being duped of approximately Rs 2 lakh by men posing as   for  .

 The complainant, Prabhat Chaudhary (19), told police that he was contacted by two people through an online job portal in December 2017 promising to get him a job as a cabin crewmember.
 
 Chaudhary met the two men in a hotel at Mahipalpur in southwest Delhi on January 3 where he was asked to pay Rs 3.10 lakh. “I agreed to pay them only after getting selected. They agreed and took me to the airline’s office at Terminal 2 of IGI airport where a person took my interview,” he added.
 
 The next day, the youth got a mail from the airline’s “recruitment department” informing him that he has been selected for the job. Chaudhary forwarded it to an email ID provided on GoAir’s website to seek confirmation regarding his selection. However, he claimed that he didn’t get any reply. When he sent another mail, he got a call from a woman who introduced herself as the HR head. She said that he would be soon told about the mandatory medical check-up.
 
 The victim said that the “recruitment agents” took him to a private pathology lab in Janakpuri for medical examination. He met other candidates there and after getting assured handed over Rs 1.5 lakh to the recruitment agents. He promised to give the remainder amount when the training starts.
 
 “They told me that the training would be done in Jammu, but when I researched I found that the airline had no base there. When I raised the question, they offered to take me to the airline’s Mumbai office for another interview,” the youth said, adding that the men paid for his air tickets.
 
 The youth was taken to the GoAir office in Worli in Mumbai, but no interview took place. Later, Chaudhary got a mail stating that the training base had been shifted to Udaipur due to “geological conditions”.
 
 “I received an air ticket for Udaipur and upon reaching I was boarded in a hotel along with other candidates. A man claiming to be an HR representative soon came and asked for Rs 50,000 as security deposit. When I offered a demand draft, they refused and asked for cash,” the complainant said.
 
 He stayed in the hotel for three days, but no one from the company turned up. Later, the phone numbers of the agents was found switched off. He returned to Delhi and lodged a complaint at Vasant Kunj (north) police station.
 
 A GoAir spokesperson said they will investigate the matter. “We will provide all assistance to law enforcement agencies so that the real culprit is brought to book. GoAir and its authorised recruitment associates don’t charge any payment for employment-related application, interview or selection,” the company said in its statement.
 
 
