MUMBAI: Mumbai City's lack of creativity and firepower in the attacking third were clearly visible as they succumbed to an embarrassing 3-1loss to Bengaluru in their   encounter at the   on Thursday.

 Striker   missed at least three clear goalscoring opportunities in the first half and despite Thiago Santos's runs in the middle, the hosts never really seemed to trouble the Bengaluru defence. The defeat, their second in a row at home, only makes their quest to finish in the top-four more complicated.
 
 Take no credit away from the ISL's new entrants though. Led by skipper  's brace and Miku's well worked free-kick, the visitors leapfrogged Chennaiyin to go atop the league standings.
 
 Mumbai started off the better team and had a chance to take the lead in the 15th minute itself. Cameroonian Achille Emana carried the ball from his half and played it to Balwant, waiting on the right. The former   man, though, took too long to position himself for a shot and Bengaluru defender   made an easy block.
 
 It didn't take long for the visitors to settle in though. Who else but Chhetri, who played for Mumbai City in seasons two and three, to register their first shot on target. Udanta Singh made a run on the right and squared it for Chhetri waiting at the top of the box. His first-time shot, though, went straight to Amrinder, who collected it calmly.
 
 Bengaluru then kept piling on the pressure but were unable to find a breakthrough. That came in the 43rd minute after Chhetri was brought down in the box by Balwant. Chhetri then stepped up to take the penalty, and slotted it to into top left corner, sending   the wrong way.
 
 In the 52nd minute, the India skipper then doubled his and Bengaluru's goal tally. Udanta foxed young Mumbai City defender   and made a dashing run on the right, before sending in a low cross to Chhetri. Big players don't need a second chance, and Chhetri slotted the ball comfortably past Amrinder's reach.
 
 Miku then put the final nail in Mumbai's coffin with an excellent low freekick in the 63rd minute. The Venezuelan was fouled by Gerson Viera just outside the box and while Chhetri distracted the players forming the wall with a dummy shot, Miku fired the ball low and hard into the bottom left corner.
 
 Leo Costa pulled one back for Mumbai in the 76th minute, but it was a case of too little too late for the hosts. 
 
