Of all the ways one can have to bond with people, talking about your favourite clothes, is one! This exactly what happened when about 70 ladies from Goa, Mumbai, Delhi, Indore and Chennai converged in   for a Saree Speak meet. What started as a closed group on social media, founded by Goa’s saree aficionado Vini Tandon in 2016, quickly became an instant hit among those who love the six yards of elegance. "I started this group and used to post pictures of me wearing different kinds of sarees. Soon enough many friends joined me. And now the group has more than thirty-six thousand active members with two hundred plus from Bhopal!” shares Vini. The motive of the group is to not only share the love for the ethnic wear, but also to sensitise people about the traditional handloom weaves of India. “We are also working extensively to revive weaves like Kunbi and   through our social media platform” adds Tandon.
 
  
  
 Bhopal coordinator and well known socialite Rashmi Goyla helmed the meet in the city and she requested all the members to dress in their regional handloom saree."As the meet was organised in Bhopal we had requested all the members here to wear the regional handloom of   like Maheshwari, Chanderi, Kosa, Khadi sarees, etc. We kept a fun workshop on Block printing in which the women themselves tried the printing technique and learnt how to differentiate between a hand printed piece and a machine printed one” says Goyla. Nandita Nair, city based life coach, held a saree styling session in which she spoke about the best ways to handle different types of sarees like silk, chiffon, cotton, synthetic, etc. She also shared tips and tricks of draping a saree in the trending fashions way. To make the evening interesting, a few women expressed their bond and love for the saree through poems.   from Delhi recited, “Dekhkar tumko mano rousan hai jahan lagta, saree mein tum ho aur mausam yahan jawan lagta hai” This was followed by a ramp walk session in which the women flaunted their love for the six yards of grace.
 
 Pics: Vishesh Sharma
 
