MUMBAI/PUNE: The   will continue to keep its focus on a malpractice-free exam season as the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) exams begin on Thursday. The board will deploy six   of its own, restrict use of mobile phones and not allow students in the classroom after exam begins.

 
  
 
 Over 17.5 lakh students from 21,986 schools will appear for SSC examination at 4,657 centres across the state. Of these, 9.7 lakh are boys and 7.8 lakh are girls. There are 16.4 lakh fresh candidates (those appearing for the first time), 67,563 repeaters, and 46,007 students from other categories, like the betterment scheme.
 
 Thursday is the first day of the examination, which will conclude on March 24. The board’s authorities have advised students to reach their centre at least 30 minutes before the exam starts or they will not be allowed inside the hall. “Like HSC students, SSC students will also have to come in at 10.30am for the morning session and they will not be allowed in the exam centres after 11am, except in case of exceptional circumstances,” said Subhash Borse, in-charge secretary of Mumbai division.
 
 The examinations are being held across nine divisions and every division has seven flying squads to ensure there are no malpractices at exam centres. There will be a total 252 flying squads, every district will have a monitoring committee under the district collector and women squads have been formed in certain divisions. “School heads, who are chief exam conductors, will be at the discretion to check students in case they suspect a malpractice. In case of female students, they must be checked by female staffers,” said Borse.
 
 For the first time in SSC exams, every page of the answer book and the supplementary sheets will have a barcode to avoid pages getting misplaced. Hall tickets with instructions printed in English and Marathi is another first.
 
 Get latest news & live updates on the go on your pc with News App. Download The Times of India news app for your device. Read more City news in English and other languages.
 
