TRICHY: The Consumer   of Tamil Nadu has filed a contempt petition before the Madurai bench of Madras high court against the local planning authority (LPA) and   for not implementing a court order issued in 2017. The consumer organisation stated that both   and urban local body failed to obey Madurai bench’s order directing them to take action against building plan violations found in commercial complexes here that converted basements meant for parking into commercial space.

 As traffic snarls were increasing in commercial streets particularly in Thillai Nagar, the Consumer Protection Council based on RTI replies from the LPA found that at least six commercial complexes in the 10th and 11th cross of Thillai Nagar and one apartment in Srirangam have either deviated from the approved building plan or built without any approval.
 
 The buildings, instead of earmarking actual space in basement strictly for parking vehicles deviated much from the approved plan by converting a portion of space as shops for commercial purposes. Since the available parking space in the six commercial establishments and an apartment was inadequate, vehicles including cars were parked over the Thillai Nagar roads, affecting normal vehicular movement. After the consumer organisation moved the Madurai bench of Madras high court, the bench in an order dated December 1, 2016, directed LPA and Trichy Corporation to take action against the building plan violations found within a period of three months.
 
 Meanwhile, on January 27, 2017, a writ petition challenging the order was filed in Madurai bench which was subsequently dismissed by the bench in an order dated July 14, 2017, and reiterated LPA to pursue action against identified building plan violations. However, even as 8 months have passed since the order and no action was initiated against the unauthorised constructions except for the notices served, the consumer organisation filed a contempt plea recently.
 
 It is said that LPA could have either sealed the unauthorised construction or demolished the same but no such actions were taken. “Both the LPA and civic body has not complied with the order passed by Madurai bench pertaining to the identified violations in the approved building plan. Hence, we have filed a petition seeking the High Court to initiate actions against LPA and Trichy Corporation for disobedience of the order,” S Pushpavanam, secretary, Consumer Protection Council, Tamil Nadu, told TOI. The petition is likely to come up for hearing in June 2018 after the summer vacation of court.
 
 
