Visakhapatnam: The state government is looking for land to construct 35,800 new housing units in   city.

 Around 75,000 housing units were approved for the city under ‘Housing for All by 2022’ mission. 
 
 The project was to be completed in three different phases. Sources said the government is keen on constructing about 25,000 housing units in the proposed 900-acre satellite township near   in the outskirts of Visakhapatnam.
 
 The decision to advance negotiations with the assignees of the land was taken at a recent high-level meeting chaired by the principal secretary of municipal administration and urban development department, Karikal Valaven. Though the state government has preliminary identified some land in Kommadi, Dabbanda village in Anandapuram Mandal, Sowbhagya Rayapuram village in   and so on for the construction of the housing units in the third phase, it may take more time to finalise the land parcels.
 
 Works have already started on 4,120 housing units allotted to the city in the first phase at Satyanarayanapuram near Anakapalli, Aganampudi, Parawada and Rathi Cheruvu in Pendurthi Mandal. The construction works are nearing completion at many of these sites, while tenders were completed for the housing units in the second phase and foundation stones were laid recently in several zones of the city. 
 
 It may be noted that the land identification process has not ended for nearly 16,825 housing units under the second phase.   bagged the second phase construction project. Lands for the second phase construction were identified at 23 places, including Yelamanchili, Gajuwaka, Padmanabham, Mahdurawada and Kondakoppaka.
 
 The 75,000 housing units were allotted under two categories of the mission — beneficiary-led individual house construction (BIHC) and affordable housing in partnership ( ).
 
 Nearly 16,000 housing units were sanctioned in two phases under the BIHC category. The state government formed Andhra Pradesh Township and Infrastructure Development Corporation (APTIDCO) for integrated township and infrastructure development and it will execute these projects under AHIP category. As part of Praja Sadhikara Survey, the housing scheme has elicited response from nearly two lakh residents of the city. However, officials estimate that there will be about 1.25 lakh eligible beneficiaries.
 
 
