BHUBANESWAR: The state government on Friday informed the state assembly of its decision to file a petition before the   tribunal within two to three weeks after getting its terms of reference. 

 Responding to a debate on the Mahanadi issue, water resources minister   said it could not file the petition before the Mahanadi tribunal as it is yet to receive the terms of reference (ToR) from the Centre.
 
 "Though the Union minister of state for water resources, on March 23, informed the Lok Sabha that the ToR for Mahanadi tribunal was issued on March 21, the state government is yet to receive it. We have brought it to the Centre's notice on March 31 but we are yet to get a copy of the ToR," Pujari said.
 
 Sources said the water resources department is in the process of drafting the petition and it would be fine-tuned according to the ToR.
 
 The minister said the government's priority at the moment is to stop all unauthorized constructions by Chhattisgarh on the Mahanadi upstream. "The flow during November 2017 to January 2018 has gone down by around 40 per cent as compared to the non-monsoon flow during 2005-06 to 2015-16," the minister said.
 
 Condemning the Chhattisgarh government's initiative to start tendering process for another barrage on the Mahanadi, the minister said it was a blatant violation of the National Green Tribunal as on July 26, 2017, it had ordered against the construction of any dams or barrages on the river.
 
 The minister said the construction on Mahanadi upstream by Chhattisgarh would result in severe water crisis in Odisha and would endanger the   biosphere. Earlier, the state assembly witnessed heated exchange between the treasury bench and opposition members during a debate on the crucial Mahanadi issue.
 
 Accusing the BJP-led Centre of delaying the process of Mahanadi tribunal, government chief whip Amar Prasad Satpathy alleged it was being done to help Chhattisgarh complete its ongoing projects on the river.
 
 Hitting out at the Centre, leader of opposition Narasingha Mishra too said it has a mala fide intention behind delaying the process. 
 
 He also hit back at the BJP state in-charge Arun Singh, who had recently said that once the party comes to power in the state it would resolve the Mahanadi row within six months. 
 
 "It is a threat to the people of Odisha which needs to be condemned," Mishra said. The   veteran also hit out at the BJD for trying to politicise the issue instead of showing seriousness in resolving the dispute.
 
 BJP legislator party leader K V Singh Deo, meanwhile, criticised the ruling party of trying to gain political mileage out of the Mahanadi issue. Assuring that the state BJP unit is with the Odisha government on the issue, Singh Deo said despite 53 per cent of the Mahanadi water flowing into the Bay of Bengal, the state government has not constructed a single barrage to store water.
 
 
