MOHALI: The Mohali district has passed the litmus test as in the past fortnight, 1063 people have got their properties registered online with the revenue department. The system was launched on January 8 as a pilot project in Mohali, to be implemented in the state depending upon its response.

 Vini  , additional chief secretary-cum-financial commissioner revenue (FCR-cum-ACS),   said, “The report is positive and quite encouraging. SAS Nagar has passed the litmus test. Decks are clear for the state-wide rollout of the system.”
 
 Giving out the details, Mahajan said there have been no manual registrations in the district since the launch of the new system. There have been as many as 1063 online property registrations in a fortnight including 190 in Mohali, 8 in Banur, 211 in Derabassi, 243 in Zirakpur, 293 in Kharar and 118 in Majri. The figures are apparently indicative of the fact that people have adapted to the changed system, she said.
 
 Similarly, the system is running seamlessly at the tehsil level in Moga and the sub-tehsil level in Adampur, where it was administered as a trial-run on November 17 last year, added Mahajan. Moga has received 970 online property registrations and   has registered 399, in a period of two months, she said.
 
 The thorough review of the system suggests that it is an apt time to implement the system across all the 22 districts, she said. “Modalities are being worked out for the same and after meeting the due infrastructural and technical requirements, the state will hopefully bid adieu to the age-old cumbersome property registration process by March 2018 and emerge as a front-runner of   system at the national level,” said Mahajan.
 
 The online system makes registration very simple, citizen-friendly with fool-proof cyber security in place. It also eliminates the possibility of the citizens being misled on the collector rates, various exemptions and their calculation methods, opined Mahajan. The person concerned has to just open the National Generic Document Registration System (NGDRS) portal and create his or her login-id by entering the username and password.
 
 Thereafter, he has to enter the property details and check the applicable collector rates, exemptions as prompted by the system. Everytime a login is initiated, an alert is sent on the registered mobile number.
 
 The salient features of this leap towards modernising and streamlining the revenue administration by online registration of land records under the NGDRS includes providing an online interface to the citizens to enter data related to registration and uploading of property documents 24X7, enable automatic calculation of stamp duty, registration and other fees based on collector rates and also reduce dependency on deed writers.
 
 The citizens receive SMS alerts at data submission, appointment and completion of registration, eliminating the scope for fraud. Further, the online appointment system gives flexibility to the citizens to choose their date of appointment for the registration. Also, the entry of AADHAAR number of the buyer and seller, further, checks fraudulent deals. The real-time report generation as well as capturing of photos are other features of the system. Besides, sub-registrars are subjected to biometric authentication to negate frauds. It also provides for linking of land records with the registration process, informed  .
 
 
