KOLKATA: A chartered flight took off from Kolkata airport for   in   on Sunday morning, carrying in its belly 1,461 boxes packed with enough explosives to blow up an entire city.

 
 Sources at the airport said a Russian-made Tupolev Tu-204C freighter took off at 6.20pm on Sunday with 25 tonnes of nonelectric explosive detonators used for blasts in mining operations or tunnelling through mountains. The plane then made the 2,500km journey with the consignment that is classified under ‘class I dangerous goods’.
 
 
  
 
 An official of  , a subsidiary of Australian firm   that is the world’s largest provider of commercial explosives and blasting systems, said the consignment was the largest ever to be shipped from Kolkata and also among the largest from anywhere in India.
 
 According to norms laid down by the  , dangerous goods, like explosives, cannot be transported in passenger aircraft. They have to be handled with extreme caution. The explosives were packed into the special thermally insulated, water-proof and crush-proof boxes brought from Mumbai.
 
 Customs clearance agent Jaideep Raha of  , which handled the consignment, said the boxes were very carefully loaded in an operation that began on Saturday night and carried on till late Sunday morning. “The aircraft arrived at 10.40pm on Saturday. Thereafter, the loading operation began. The area around the aircraft was cordoned off. ‘No Smoking’ signs were installed to ensure that a chance accident did not happen,” recounted Raha, who is also the regional chairman (east) of Air Cargo Agents’ Association of India.
 
 While consignment in boxes are usually physically checked by Customs officers after they are passed through X-ray scan, in this instance they were only scanned since opening the boxes could have damaged the packaging.
 
 There are nine classes of dangerous goods. While explosives fall under class I, the others include acid, gas-based poisons, inflammable material, oxidising material, hazardous chemicals and bio-hazards like blood samples.
 
 With the Australian government announcing the setting up of a consulate office in Kolkata, mining firms from Down Under that are present in Kolkata will get a fillip. “In the years ahead, one can expect more such exports out of Kolkata airport,” said an official.
 
