"Being overweight is often looked down upon in the society we live in", says Suryagni Roy, the man who lost 80 kilograms and chose to inspire others with his transformation. He was downright body shamed for looking a certain way and often commented upon even by strangers. After a minute change, Suryagni went full throttle towards   and lost weight equivalent to two individuals! Wondering how? Read his story and share it with those who have given up on themselves...

 
 Suryagni Roy
 
 
  Creative programming Intern at Radio Mirchi, Kolkata
 
 
  26 years
 
 
  158-160 kilograms 
 
 
  Around 80 kilograms
 
 
  I lost 45-50 kilograms in one year. Then, I followed a rigorous and strict regime and lost the remaining in the next 1-2 years.
 
 
  Losing weight was a distant dream for me. When one is 160 kilograms, losing a kilo also feels like a great achievement. My turning point occurred the moment I saw a visible change physically. It was after losing some 10-15 kilograms when I realised that losing weight is difficult but doable. My physical change led to a lot of psychological changes. I started reading motivational stories and started posting my transformation pictures on Facebook, unaware that I would become a motivation for people with similar issues. I tried my best to help them out and learned a lot from them.
 
 
 3 egg whites with cornflakes or brown bread with an egg white omelette. I begin my day with a glass of lukewarm water. 
 
 
 Vegetables, either in boiled form or in an Indian curry, chicken or eggs, 2 rotis and salad
 
 
 Boiled vegetables or 2 rotis with a vegetarian curry. I had stopped eating sweets for a year.
 
 
 The concept of cheat days came only after losing a chunk of weight. Cheat meals would include a pizza or any Mughlai dish like biryani or ice cream.
 
 
 I had started off with cardio initially. Gradually, I shifted to strength training as I realised its importance. I started reading about different kinds of exercise methods, for example, HIIT and bodybuilding. 
 
 
  
  
 
  I look back at my progress. That helps me stay motivated. I interact with people who inbox me on Facebook and Instagram. Their belief in me and my progress, and their queries to seek a healthy future keeps me motivated.
 
 
  Losing focus is very easy. But constant positive feedback from unknown and known people have kept me on track. When someone with a similar story like yours starts confiding in you and seeks help, it keeps you focused.
 
 
  
 Apart from finding trendy clothes to fit in to, being overweight leads to facing social issues. You are constantly considered as a freak show. Unknown people who aren’t important to you, pass nasty comments which hurt you. It’s a sad reality of our society, where being fat is somewhat looked down upon.
 
 Read here : 
  
 
 
  
 I wish to be fit enough to help myself and my kind of people. I want to get into professional fitness training and counseling. I want to organise talk events where obese people can come up with their issues and get help.
 
 
  
 Basically, I started choosing right things, like making small yet significant changes like lassi in place for carbonated drinks. I made it a point to work out (gym or home) even if there wasn't much time.
 
 
  Being ridiculed for being obese. 
 
 
  We have one life, so go full throttle. Anything can be achieved with proper dedication. If I can lose nearly 80 kilograms, why can’t you? 
 
 
 
 
