NAGPUR: Riding on a stimulating show of   and Mugdha Amraotkar, title favourites   (DKM) women emerged champions in the   District Senior Basketball Championship which concluded at the Gurudev Nagar Krida Mandal courts here on Friday.

 
 The formidable duo of Shreya and Mugdha collected as many as 37 points as DKM eased past Saraswati Kanya Sangh (SKS) 48-28 in a one-sided summit clash, which failed to reach great heights.
 
 The women’s final was dominated by Shreya, who scored a game-high 20 points. The talented teenager not only attacked and increased the points tally regularly but also came back quickly and defended SKS hoopsters. While Shreya was making her mark, her senior teammate Mugdha did stay behind.The tall hoopster also came up with some amazing moves during her 17-point feat.
 
 They created excellent combination which kept SKS out of the match from the word go. Shankar Nagar-based DKM, who are trained by Dhiraj Kadao, dominated all the four quarters (15-7, 12-9, 9-4, 12-8). For SKS,   (13) fought the lone battle. Rasika lacked support from others. Vision Academy eves achieved the third place defeating Nutan Bharat Yuvak Sangh (NBYS) 55-41.
 
 Smruti Iyer (12) and Siddha Deshmukh (11) played well in tandem. They scored majority of the points among themselves as Vision emerged victorious . Namrata Desai with 10 points did an excellent jobs for NBYS. However, she failed to get desired support from her teammates as her team lost 14-14, 10-6, 15-12, 16-8.
 
 The men’s final was an exciting affair and kept the spectators on the edge of their seats.   got the better of NBYS ‘A’ 66-56 by ten points to lift the title. Harish Pachpande (17) and Nikunj Chandak (17) fashioned Vision’s victory. For NBYS, Tushar Maske fought a lone battle by scoring 24 points but didn’t get much suupport from others.
 
 The first quarter was a thrilling affair with both the teams giving their best from the word go. Vision were leading by just a solitary point (18-17) at the end of the first quarters. However, they could not keep their slender lead as NBYS ‘A’ fought back gallantly in the next quarter. NBYS were leading by 33-29 at the half time.
 
 However, after the change of ends, Vision regrouped themselves and regained the advantage. They won the last two quarters (21-16 and 16-7) to seal the fate of their opponents. In the third place play-off outing, DKM defeated NBYS ‘B’ 57-37. Nishanth V was the top scorer for DKM with 22 points. He was well supported by Vihang Tapas, who contributed 13 points. For NBYS ‘B’, only Smeet Joshi could offer some resistance with nine points.
 
