HYDERABAD: A 52-year-old   died after being beaten up by nearly 500 local people on Saturday night under   police limit. Locals mistook the transgender for a child trafficker, said police. 

 The deceased, Chandraiah (52), a native of   district, came to Hyderabad to earn some money during the month of  . 
 
 The incident occurred at around 11.45 pm when Chandraiah along with his transgender son, Ravi (25) and another male friend, Narasimha (40), was begging in hotels near  . 
 
 "There have been some WhatsApp messages doing round, rumours about burglars, kidnappers and transgenders. One of the locals raised alarm saying the duo has come to kidnap children," said Chandrayangutta inspector, Prakash Reddy. 
 
 Soon people gathered and started arguing with the transgenders which led to a fight. People started beating up the transgenders, while, Narasimha who tried to rescue the transgenders, also suffered injuries. When police tried to rescue them, the mob pelted stones at them too.
  
 Following the incident, all three were shifted to Osmania General Hospital for treatment. Chandraiah died at around 3 am on Sunday and his body was shifted to OGH mortuary. While other two injured are undergoing treatment in the Hospital. 
 
 A case was registered under section 147 (Punishment for rioting), 148 (Rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 302 (murder) and 307 (Attempt to murder) of IPC. 
 
 A few days back another person was lynched by locals in Bibinagar following rumours on social media. Hyderabad Police have appealed the citizens not to take the law into their hands. 
 
 "These days social media platforms like Whatsapp, Facebook and Twitter are being used to spread fake news. All such messages are only rumours. If someone sends such news please do not share with anyone and validate with the police. If anyone finds suspicions, tell the police by dialling 100 or inform through Hawkeye, Facebook and Whatsapp. Do not take the law into your own hands. We will take serious legal action against you. Please do not believe in rumours, do not campaign and do not force the innocents," read a statement from CP Hyderabad. 
 
 
