NEW DELHI: In its appeal challenging the acquittal of   promoters, including   and  , among others in the 2G scam,   has said that special judge O P Saini arrived at “perverse and erroneous” conclusions while selectively relying on statements of defence witnesses and ignoring prosecution evidence.

 
 Saini had acquitted Ruias, I P Khaitan and   — promoters of Loop Telecom, which CBI alleged was a front company of Essar, and director of Essar Vikash Saraf among others on December 21, 2017. Those acquitted included former telecom minister A Raja for which the agency has filed a separate appeal.
 
 In its appeal filed in the Delhi high court last week, exclusively accessed by TOI, CBI stated that Saini’s approach in appreciating the documentary or oral evidence was “selective” and he relied on the statements of those witnesses who deposed against the prosecution.
 
 “The learned judge has also ignored the fact that the defence was at an advantage. Most of the prosecution witnesses were from the companies of accused persons, as the prosecution was bound to examine them to prove certain facts and documents relating to the companies, and thus, the defence was in a position to get favourable answers from them, which it got too,” states the appeal.
 
 Asserting that only some documentary evidence was admitted while others were discarded, CBI had told the HC that the trial judge should have given due weightage to the “documentary evidence” instead of “oral evidence”.
 
 “He (Saini) has accepted the weak, infirm and biased evidence of defence witnesses as against the clear, cogent and unbiased evidence of prosecution and documentary evidence,” it said in the appeal.
 
 CBI allegations against Essar were that the Group had created a “corporate veil” through a web of firms to “conceal” its actual holding in Loop Telecom Ltd (LTL) to “circumvent” guidelines of Unified Access Services Licences (UASL).
 
 As per clause 8 of UASL guidelines of department of telecom (DoT), “No single company or legal person, either directly or through its associates, shall have 10 per cent or more equity holding in more than one licensee company in the same service area for same service.”
 
 The agency claims that Saini “wrongly” analysed Clause 8 of UASL regarding the substantial equity clause, by observing that the purpose of allowing less than 10% equity of one licensee company into another licensee company is that it adds to commercial flexibility and leads to synergy in operations in the telecom sector.
 
 “This observation (of Saini) is without any basis, as there was no such evidence on record on which it could be based. In fact, the evidence on record is that the purpose of substantial equity clause is that a single company may not exercise control of two licensee companies and the competition may not be compromised” it says.
 
 CBI says Saini “wrongly declined” to lift the corporate veil despite there being sufficient evidence to demonstrate that a crime had been committed under the garb of a concealed structure of companies apparently looking as in conformity with the UAS guidelines.
 
