MUMBAI: The reintroduction of long-term capital gains ( ) tax in the   sent   on a selling spree on Friday, as the   crashed 840 points (2.3%), its second-sharpest post-Budget day fall ever by points, and closed just a tad above 35K. Bond yields rose on fears that the government might not be able to manage the fiscal deficit target, which also affected investor sentiment on the  .

  
  
 After plunging to a low of 35,006 points in late trades, the sensex closed at 35,067 while the   lost 256 points to close at 10,761. The day’s session left investors poorer by Rs 4.6 lakh crore, with BSE’s market capitalisation now at Rs 153.7 lakh crore. In terms of market cap loss, it was the fifth-worst day for Indian investors.
 
 In addition to LTCG tax and rising bond yields, lack of clarity about the applicability of LTCG tax and its grandfathering clause in case of foreign investors also led to strong selling.
 
  
  
  
  
 
 In a post-market conference, the government, however, clarified that all LTCG tax-related rules would apply to foreign funds also. A section of the market said the sell-off is expected to continue in the coming week as well. “The worst is not behind us yet. Markets need to stabilise after such a major shakeout,” said Arun Kejriwal, director of investment advisory firm KRIS. “It will not only take some time, but also some more value erosion,” he added.
 
  
  
 Several foreign portfolio managers said they were taking a close look at the possible impact of LTCG tax on their India investments. These fund managers have in recent times banked on a stable rupee. But the burden of an extra tax could now force them to rethink their investment models, which may lead to some selling in the coming weeks, market players said.
 
 Interestingly, though, in Friday’s session, foreign funds clocked a net inflow of Rs 950 crore, compared with Rs 509 crore net selling by domestic funds. There are additional concerns that some of the foreign players may shift part of their portfolio to Singapore, where the exchange is planning to launch derivative contracts on the 50 stocks that constitute NSE’s Nifty index.
 
 
 
 On Friday, the yield on the benchmark 10-year government securities rose to a high of 7.68%, from 7.17% when it was introduced on January 5. A rising gilt yield puts pressure on banks to hike their lending and deposit rates. 
 
  
  
 “Global market volatility led by rising bond yields, profit-booking (Indian markets had posted a strong monthly gain before the Budget) and concerns on deteriorating macro-economic conditions were the probable reasons for the market fall,” said Sandeep Chordia, EVP strategy,  .
 
 During the day, the sell-off in the stock market also caused the rupee to weaken. It closed at 64.06 to the dollar, more than a month-low figure. 
 
  
  
 
