Coimbatore: The rural police busted an illegal   manufacturing unit and seized 3.24 lakh sachets weighing 648kg at Kannampalayam village near Sulur here on Saturday. Police have detained four people, including three migrant labourers and manager of the unit.

 The owner of the unit, who hails from New Delhi, possessed licence to manufacture pan masala and sweet betel nut, police sources said. “But, he was producing banned tobacco products, which were supplied across Tamil Nadu,” a police officer said.
 
 Police identified the unit owner as  . “He had bought a textile mill at Kannampalayam in 2010 and had procured machines to manufacture tobacco products in 2011. He stopped production when Tamil Nadu government banned sale and manufacturing of gutka and other tobacco products in 2012. He then obtained licence to manufacture sweet betel nut and pan masala. He had the licence to produce 500kg pan masala a day. He had also obtained certification from the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI). He began producing banned tobacco products at the unit under the brand ‘VIP’ from 2013 and had been supplying them across the state,” the officer told TOI.
 
 It took the police department five years to detect the illegal operation. Police superintendent Pa Moorthy, who got a tip-off, deputed a special team led by additional superintendent of police GS Anitha to raid the unit on Saturday. The team seized raw materials used for manufacturing gutka, 3.24 lakh gutka sachets (648 kg ) and 750kg of pan masala. Police found a huge cache of banned tobacco products in the unit’s godown. The unit has another godown in Erode, sources said.
 
 Armed reserve police personnel were deployed at the unit during the raid.
 
 Police plan to register a case against Amit Jain, Raghuram of Sulur and three migrant labourers. 
 
 The raid comes a day after the Madras high court ordered a CBI   into the alleged multi-crore gutka scam in which involvement of state health minister C   and director general of police TK Rajendran are suspected.
 
 
