The churning in the   continues as teams go up and down the points table. Have Mumbai Indians began their turnaround with that fine win over table-toppers Chennai Super Kings? Remember, they have been slow starters in previous editions too and have subsequently gone on to win the trophy. 

 
 
 
 
 What was noticeable is how Rohit Sharma took responsibility and batted one number up the order and guided his team to a win. His record in limited overs cricket is phenomenal and so it makes cricketing sense that he should be playing as many overs as possible and batting higher up the order gives him the chance to do so.
 
 Chennai may have stumbled in their return encounter with the defending champions, but they have the ability to bounce back. They take on a Delhi Daredevils outfit, who, like Mumbai, stopped a losing streak after a fabulous innings from their new skipper   gave them a score over 200 for the first time this season. 
 
 
  
  
 
 Will it be a turnaround for them too? They have the bowling to choke the opposition and with Iyer leading from the front they certainly can do that. With the combative  's guidance they can lift themselves up the ladder quite quickly but they know they cannot afford to have another off day.
 
 It was good to see that the two young Indian quickies have been reprimanded for using abusive language to send a batsman off. It's a disease that has to be nipped in the bud before it becomes an epidemic. 
 
 Clearly, they have been influenced by seeing their heroes do it on the TV monitors and seeing them get away with it and so think that that's the way to celebrate. The reprimand should be a good warning to them and all others to ensure that respect is shown to the opposition even in the moment of victory.
 
 It's been hard to understand why there is so much of anger when a wicket or scoring a fifty or a hundred should be a moment of pure joy and happiness. A smile will light up everybody around them as well as those watching on TV. 
 
 They should take a leaf out of  's book where, even after hitting the winning six, he walks calmly off the field ensuring he is not rubbing the opponents' nose in the dust but being humble in victory too.
 
 Being passionate is fine but it should not make a player boorish and loutish on the field and hopefully the lesson will be quickly learnt now that the   is finally tackling player behaviour as a priority.
 
