CHANDIGARH: A day after   ( ) announced to relax hostel timings by 30 minutes, girl hostellers expressed dissatisfaction with the changes saying the   should be extended till midnight. 

 Majority of the girl hostellers were of the view that an increase of mere 30 minutes in the entry time will not make any difference to them. 
 
 While they agreed that 24-hour entry for girls was not a feasible option, they also demanded for an extension of the entry time to midnight.
 
 Girls also opined that there were other issues to be addressed in addition to the hostel entry timings. 
 
 “Timings for paying hostel fees are from 9 am to 12noon. Those need to be extended beyond the lunch. We need to miss our classes to pay our hostel dues every month,” said Pooja Rathore, a student at University Institute of Chemical Engineering and Technology (UICET), living in Girls Hostel No. 2.
 
 Riya Vaibhawi, Girls Hostel No. 3 said, “Our day at department gets over by 4pm. I work and then go to gym. We need more time for social activities and the hostel timings should be further relaxed.” 
 
 Meanwhile, the decision of reduction in the late-comer fine to Rs 100 from Rs 250 was welcomed. “When we went out for any social gathering earlier, we ended up paying hefty fines. Those who marked their attendance and returned late used to pay Rs 250 and those who did not even mark their entry and returned late paid Rs 50. The new rule will weed out the disparity,” said Neeru Goyal, an LLM student, who stays at Girls Hostel No. 2. 
 
 Changes in hostel rules have been announced in the wake of   campaign by Panjab University Campus Students Council (PUCSC) and demands raised by other political parties. 
 
 Vani Sood, secretary of PUCSC congratulated the girls on meeting their long pending demands. She said, “My main focus is on the demands that were agreed upon especially making the campus secure. The students deserve a life of dignity and my main concern is fulfilling that.”
 
 On Thursday, Emmanuel Nahar, Dean Student Welfare (DSW) had given his nod to the extension of entry timings for girls in their hostels to 11pm from 10.30 pm. The maximum fine amount for late comers was restricted to Rs 100. 
 
 However, there are also students, who have been raising demands for basic facilities in the hostel instead of just relaxed timings. 
 
  “The existing entry timings are fine. There is no need to demand 24x7 entry to the hostels. Computer rooms, washing areas, poorly-equipped gym, old electrical wiring are some of the hostel issues that have neither been taken up by the council nor by any of the political parties,” said a student from Department of Sociology on conditions of anonymity.
 
 
