GURUGRAM: India Meteorological Department ( ) officials have said they did not advise the state government to shut down   on May 7 and 8. 

 The state education department is under fire for sending messages to schools across Haryana on Sunday to keep their campuses closed on Monday and Tuesday, as a thunderstorm was expected to hit the state.
 
 With a fresh western disturbance making its way into the region, a weather warning was issued for states like J&K, Himachal, Punjab and Haryana, but IMD officials said rainfall in Gurugram city and other parts of NCR would be moderate. The highest temperature recorded in the city was 39°C on Monday. According to officials, thunderstorm with light rainfall is expected in Delhi and NCR on Tuesday, but it is nothing to worry about.
 
 IMD deputy director general Devendra Pradhan said, “IMD didn’t advise anyone to declare the two-day holiday for schools. That decision was taken by the state government on its own. There was no high alert warning. However, there was an advisory for thunderstorms accompanied with strong winds.” 
 
 He added, “Even if schools stay open, it will be fine.”
 
 When contacted, government officials remained mum on why state education minister Ram Bilas Sharma issued the letter for closure of schools. The city administration said it was following instructions issued by high officials in the state government. R K Singh, additional deputy commissioner, said, “This is a technical issue. The order came after the weather department predicted thunderstorms.” 
 
 On Monday, nearly 350 private schools and 575 government schools across the city remained closed. School authorities said they had no clue why schools had to stay closed on Monday morning which was sunny. 
 
 Many schools questioned the decision. Yashpal Yadav, president, CD Group of Schools, said, “The forecast for a storm was wrong. The weather is perfectly good. This two-day holiday has put pressure on teachers to complete the syllabus in a shorter period of time, before the summer vacation starts.” 
 
 Rohini Mohan, principal, SD Adarsh Vidyalaya, Sohna road, said, “The decision was taken in a hurry. We abide by government instructions but on what basis did it take the decision to shut down schools?” She further said, “Gurugram is very close to Delhi. If there was a weather warning, why are all the schools in the national capital open today?”
 
 Arti Chopra, principal, Amity International School, Sector 46, said, “The decision to close schools came as a surprise but we will abide by the government order.” She added, “These two days would have been crucial as we’re currently assigning holiday homework to students before summer vacation starts.” 
 
 It seems the state government acted in haste, according to experts. Dr P C Joshi, a former ISRO official, said, “It’s hard to forecast weather, especially thunderstorms. I feel the meteorological department was doing its job but the state government panicked.” Despite repeated attempts by TOI, Ram Bilas Sharma didn’t answer calls or emails sent to him.
 
 
