MUMBAI: All is clearly not well with Mumbai cricket. While quite a few top cricketers/coaches have quit the   (MCA) recently, the cricket body has been rocked by a strong letter from its former president   to the current   head  , asking him to launch an inquiry into the alleged use of the association’s grounds at BKC and Kandivali for commercial rather than cricketing purposes.

 
 Written on February 12, the letter (a copy is with TOI) mentions its subject as “mismanagement at the BKC Indoor Stadium and the BKC ground and the Kandivali Sachin Tendulkar Gymkhana.”
 
 
 “As you are aware, both the above grounds have been accredited as ‘First Class Grounds’ (fit for First Class games) by the BCCI. The MCA is maintaining the said grounds at very high cost. There were also rules for use of above grounds framed by the MCA. Presently, the Kandivali ground is being used for tennis-ball tournaments. Has the managing committee given its permission for (holding) such tournaments (at these grounds)? Is it not ironical that when the MCA’s own tournaments are being cancelled due to scarcity of grounds in Mumbai, such tournaments are being played with fanfare and loud speakers?,” Savant has pointed out.
 
 He further writes: “Similarly, launch a complete enquiry into the use of the BKC ground. Regularly, friendly matches are being arranged at those grounds. It’s being alleged that the grounds are booked in one person/agency name only and then it is sublet by charging extra money underhand. Recently, even the BCCI women’s matches were shifted from our ground to the MIG club. Who was favoured at the cost of the BCCI? Who is booking these matches? Who has fixed the ground charges?”
 
 Savant has asked for a detailed investigation into the matter. “Recently, the IDBI bowing scheme was stopped for some reasons, but a new academy has started at the BKC. I would like you to launch a complete enquiry into this matter by appointing an enquiry committee, as there is more than what meets the eye,” he said.
 
 Savant also feels that the dual role of the MCA vice president Vinod Deshpande, who’s also the chairman of the MCA’s Indoor Academy at BKC, needs to be probed. “Also, when there is (a rule of) ‘one man one post’ (as per the Lodha reforms), how can an office-bearer be in charge of the BKC’s indoor academy with special designation as the ‘Chairman’? Please look into the matter and make full enquiry,” concludes the veteran administrator, who’s also a former BCCI treasurer.
 
 When contacted, Savant said: “They are my group members and it pained me that people are making allegations against them. They should be cleared as I am sure these are only allegations. So the best way is to set up an enquiry to investigate the truth.”
 
 “We’ll look into it. We’ll inquire about it,” responded Shelar, upon being contacted.
 
 
