BATHINDA: For the fifth time in the last seven assembly elections, an MLA from   constituency of Bathinda district has been inducted into the  . Since 1985, barring 2002 and 2007, the cabinet has had an MLA from Rampura Phool, with the latest being   of the  .

 Rampura Phool resident Dhanna Singh Gulshan rose to become a Union minister in the Janata Party government led by Morarji Desai in 1977, after getting elected as a Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) candidate from Bathinda parliamentary constituency.
 
 In 1985, Sukhdev Singh Dhillon of the SAD was elected from Rampura Phool. He became the health minister. In 1992, Harbans Singh Sidhu of the Congress was elected from the constituency and became animal husbandry minister.
 
 In 1997, SAD’s Sikander Singh Maluka became the power minister in Parkash Singh Badal’s ministry. In 2002, Kangar won as independent candidate. In 2007, he won as Congress candidate but the SAD-BJP combine formed government in Punjab, due to which Rampura failed to get representation in the council of ministers. In 2012, Maluka became education minister and was later transferred as rural development minister. Now, Kangar has been included in the state cabinet.
 
 Despite such representation, development has bypassed Rampura Phool constituency, rue residents. Construction of a veterinary college was started in 2014, but it is yet to be completed.
 
 “Rampura has been ignored by all parties so far. Elected representatives failed to convince their respective governments to ensure rapid development in the area. Going by the financial condition of the state government, we have little hope of development projects coming to this segment,” said Kuldeep Kumar, a resident of Rampura Phool.
 
 However, Kangar assured his first priority would be to ensure development reached his constituency. “My first priority as a representative of the people will be to ensure some industrial activity starts here. I will take up the matter with chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and try to impress upon him to ask industrialists to set up units here. Amarinder’s ancestral village Mehraj also falls in my constituency, so he has a soft corner for the area,” he said.
 
 
