GURUGRAM: Amid high alert across the city ahead of  , armed robbers took away a truck carrying   worth Rs 10 lakh after taking its driver hostage at gunpoint. An FIR has been lodged, but no one has been arrested yet, police said on Thursday.

 The robbery took place around 10 pm on Tuesday when Shahbudeen had stopped the truck for dinner at a roadside hotel near   on NH-8 en route Delhi from Rajasthan.
 
 “When I got back to my truck after dinner, four men forcibly entered the driver’s cabin. Holding me at gunpoint, the robbers forced me to drive towards Sohna. It was in Sohna area, they tied my hands and legs and threw me out of the vehicle. They also took away my mobile phone and drove away,” Shahbudeen said in his police complaint.
 
 Shahbudeen managed to inform the truck’s owner only on Wednesday morning after borrowing the mobile phone of a passerby. Later, both of them went to Bilaspur police station and lodged the complaint.
 
 “An FIR has been registered against four unidentified robbers under sections 365 (kidnap) and 379-A (snatching) of IPC at Bilaspur police station. We are investigating the case along a crime unit team. The accused will be arrested soon,” said ASI Mahesh Kumar, the investigating officer.
 
 Late on Wednesday night, an Ola driver was robbed of his Swift Dzire cab at gunpoint by three men who had booked it online. 
 
 “I got a booking through our app and picked up the three men from near Subhash Chowk. They asked me to drop them at Badshapur. But soon held me hostage him at gunpoint and pushed me out of the car and drove away with the vehicle,” Ram Govind, the driver, said in his complaint.
 
 As per his complaint, an FIR has been registered against three unknown accused under sections 342 (wrongful confinement), 392 (robbery) and 34 (common intention) of IPC, and 25-54-59 of Arms Act at Sadar police station. “We have trying to get the CCTV footages of nearby areas. The accused will be arrested soon,” said ASI Rambir Singh, the investigating officer.
 
 
