BENGALURU: For a month now, a sign can be seen outside the   in   carrying a message in Kannada — ‘we are are busy with election work and will be free to meet the public only from 3pm-5pm’. However, aspiring voters say they have made multiple rounds of the office to collect their   (EPICs), but to no avail. While the office is found to be locked at times, often citizens are told to return at another time.

 On Thursday morning, dozens of citizens eager to collect voter ID cards and meet   for some other work were forced to go back home and told to return later in the afternoon. 
 
 Shanthala Bhat, a teacher who lives in Hulimavu, said this was the second consecutive day that she’d visited the office in Arakere ward, south Bengaluru, to meet the officials. “I came here on Wednesday to pick up the EPIC, but the notice affixed outside said the officials were free only between 3pm and 5pm. I thought this was a temporary issue, so I made another visit on Thursday morning only to be told to come back in the afternoon,” she rued.
 
 Parinitha, a homemaker, had the same experience: “They asked me to come back on Thursday, and when I asked them what was keeping them busy, they said it was my work they were doing by getting the cards in order”.
 
 Anuraj Toppo, who has been visiting the office for the past four months, said the sign has been up for one month. “I got an acknowledgment slip for my voter ID last December, and since January, I’ve been coming here three times a week to collect my card, but officials keep delaying the process,” said Anuraj.
 
 The officials are inaccesible as the building is locked, say citizens. “On Wednesday, around 35 of us were waiting outside. We decided to contact officials in the head office, but they kept transferring the call to different officials. This is not a private office that can suddenly change its timings. If they say that they are open from 10am-5pm, they should stick to the timings,” said Anuraj, who works with a private company.
 
 Office not closed
 
 Most BBMP officials are busy with electoral roll revision and day-to-day poll work, apart from their usual work. The office has not been shut; they have only asked people to come during a certain time to ease the pressure
 
 Nalini Atul, additional commissioner, BBMP, (administration) and additional district electoral officer (central).
 
 
