NEW DELHI: After following the size code of European countries or the US, India may get its own sizing standards. 

 
 Under the aegis of the textiles ministry, a project is to be launched to scan and measure 25,000 men and women in the age group of 15-65 years across six major cities to come up with an extensive size chart that reflects the “unique Indian body structure”. 
 
 The survey, dubbed Size India, is to be completed by 2021 and will be implemented by the National Institute of Fashion Technology. Whole body scanners will capture accurate 3D body maps, building a database of measurements. The scan will use over 120 measurements to form the basis of the size chart that will be representative of the Indian population. 
 
 Sunil Sethi, a member of NIFT’s board of governors said, “The idea is to bring some discipline to the sizing chart, which at present is very fluid.” Noopur Anand, professor at   Delhi and one of the members of the team, said, “The methodology will ensure that ISO standards are used for this scientific study, so that the data is acceptable internationally.” 
 
 The scanning process will take around 15 minutes per scan, she said. NIFT will set up three full body scanners across the six cities for the process. “We will try to tap the maximum diversity of ethnicity so that the data are truly representative. The six cities have been chosen based on location,” said NIFT director general Sarada Muraleedharan. 
 
 The cities are: Kolkata, Mumbai, New Delhi, Hyderabad, Bengaluru and  . Basic data, including gender, locality and age, will be collated for the survey for which Rs 30 crore have been earmarked. While the first phase of the survey will focus on a size chart for ages 15-65 years, the second phase will map the sizes for children, and for footwear. 
 
 NIFT hopes to rope in industry players like e-commerce giants and others to participate. “It could be in the form of funding for the project, mobilisation of people, making venues available or simply offering gift coupons to encourage people to participate in the survey,” said Muraleedharan. The data will be the property of the ministry. 
 
 It will need to be updated after 10 years, though the next survey can be done at asmaller level, said Anand. The size chart, besides being a help to consumers, is expected to be beneficial to the apparel industry. “A standardised size chart for Indian apparel will be of tremendous value, as it will lead to a reduction of returns,” said  , chairman of NIFT board.
 
