NAGPUR: Using the   not only reduces pollution and traffic congestion but is also good for your health. According to cardiologist Dr Prashant Jagtap a study has found that that people using Metro vis-a-vis cars in London have 44% less chance of developing obesity, 34% less chance of diabetes and 27% less chance of hypertension.

 Participating in a panel discussion held by Mahametro, Dr Jagtap said, “If you travel by Metro, you have to walk down to the station and then walk down to the destination. You are in a relaxed mood while travelling by Metro whereas you are tense while driving your car,” Dr Jagtap concluded by saying, “A Metro ride a day keeps the doctor away,”
 
 Dr Satish Wate, former director of National Environmental Engineering Research Insitute (Neeri), said that travelling by Metro improves your health. “You do not inhale the vehicle exhaust on roads. Some chemicals in the exhaust like Benzene are carcinogenic,” he added. The environmentalist praised Mahametro for going in for massive scale plantations. 
 
 Atul Pande, president of   (VIA), said that two to three years ago local industrialists were ashamed of taking foreign delegates around the city because of its poor infrastructure. “Now it is no longer so. A lot of infrastructure work is going on the most prominent being Metro,” he added.
 
 Lauding Mahametro for its speed of work, Pande said that it would improve the quality of life of workers. “People live in Kamptee and working in Butibori take two hours to reach their workplaces. Now they will be able to do it in an hour,” he further said.
 
 Architect Avantika Chitnavis said that Metro should be integrated into the city for maximum people to use it. “It should connect people and out of box thinking is needed for this,” she added. Another panelist said that congestion tax needs to be introduced to make people use Metro. Mayor  , who moderated the panel discussion, said that Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC’s) city bus service would be integrated with the Metro.
 
 Earlier, Mahametro director (finance) S Sivamathan said that 55% of physical progress had been achieved by January end. The figure for financial progress was 30%.
 
 
