CHANDIGARH: The municipal corporation (MC) has come out with two reports on management of paid parking lots in the city and both painting a contrasting picture. 

 If one goes by a 36-page report compiled by a four-member committee, the parking lots are being run smoothly, but a 290-page report prepared by finance and contract committee (F&CC) members offers the opposite picture. TOI has a copy of both the reports.
 
  
  
 
 Barring two insignificant clauses, the report, which was compiled on March 23 by a team headed by superintending engineer  , found almost everything in order in all the parking lots. But the committee headed by former mayor   exposed gaping holes in the operations. The report was submitted on April 14 and was heatedly debated in the recent house meeting.
 
 Sample this: during inspection of Sector 17 MOH parking area, the committee under Arora found the parking firm abiding by all the laid down norms except for installation of boom barriers and branding\advertisement on smart card.
 
 On the other hand, the second report observed that four cameras installed in the parking lot are not sufficient. The other irregularities which came to the fore were absence of marking of car\scooter lanes and cones and chains for proper parking for scooters and cars. The system for making smart card payment system was also found missing as the firm issued paper passes against mandated smart cards. Only 50% staff were found wearing uniform, while the provision of separate parking for handicapped person and women were not implemented. The firm had also not installed point of sale machines for cashless transactions.
 
 At the   parking lot, the team headed by   found no rate list at the kiosk, contrary to the report of other team. Similarly, rate lists and adequate number of CCTV cameras were missing at Sector 35 B parking lot. The team found haphazard parking in most of the lots. During the inspection of central server room, the team also found most of the CCTV cameras non-functional. The inspecting team was appraised by technical team members of the firm that 14 cameras were damaged and 23 had gone for repair since last month.
 
 
 
 Malik said their team inspected every parking lot and reported what they saw. “There are many flaws which need to be ironed out,” said Malik. Arora said the firm made deceleration of solutions implemented by them in the parking lots and they were inspected. “This is not a final report. The situation on the ground keeps changing on a daily basis,” said Arora.
 
 MC commissioner   said he was yet to compare both reports. Raising a question mark on the report’s painting a rosy picture of the parking lots, social activist RK Garg said: Everyone knows the state of parking lots. It appears that the report was prepared in haste and with a motive.”
 
 The MC has been struggling to address the problem of parking in both residential and commercial areas. To generate funds, the cashstrapped civic body last year had outsourced parking lots to a private firm for Rs 15 crore. Since December last year, the firm was allowed to collect higher fee. From April 1, the rates were increased further.
 
 
 
