NEW DELHI: The   that contested his first Commonwealth Games in 2014 as a 21 year old, and the one who enters next month’s CWG in Australia, are almost unrecognisable. 

 
 Four years ago, Srikanth was still taking his first steps on the international badminton level and a round-one elimination in Glasgow, Scotland was not a surprise. Heading into that edition of the CWG, in his first year of top-level competition, Srikanth had been eliminated in round three of the Mayank Malaysia Open and Thomas & Uber Cups and in round one of the All England Championships, the Swiss Open, Sunrise India Open, Badminton Asia Championships, Japan Open and Indonesia Open. His best result was being runner-up at the India Grand Prix Gold. 
 
 
 
 
 Cut to 2018, and Srikanth looks like a certainty for medal at the upcoming Commonwealth Games to be held at Gold Coast City, in the southeast of the Australian state of Queensland from April 4-15. With the Chinese, Koreans, Indonesians and Danes not participating, the biggest threat to Srikanth appears to be the World No 5 Lee Chong Wei and Srikanth’s fellow Indians HS Prannoy and B Sai Praneeth, who beat him in the National Badminton Championships final and Singapore Open final respectively last year. 
 
 
  
  
 
 Since 2016, when he won gold at the South Asian Games and beat Jan O Jorgensen to reach the quarter-finals of the men's singles badminton event at the Rio Olympics, where he went down fighting against two-time defending champion Lin Dan, Srikanth has been transformed into a world-beater under the watchful gaze of Dronacharya  . 
 
 The recipient of the Sportsperson of the Year Award at the third Mahindra Scorpio   ( ) in February, Srikanth dominated the badminton court in 2017 as he became the first Indian shuttler to win four Superseries titles and moved to a career-high No 2 in the BWF men’s singles rankings. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Srikanth’s first title was the Indonesia Open, where he beat Japan’s Kazumasa Sakai 21-11, 21-19, and a week later he vanquished the world and Olympic champion Chen Long in straight games 22-20, 21-16 to claim the Australia Open. Thus, he became the first Indian to win back-to-back Superseries titles. Later on, Srikanth became the second Indian after Prakash Padukone to win the Denmark Open and then created history by claiming the French Open. 
 
 In addition to these four Superseries wins, Srikanth reached the final of the Singapore Open where he lost to compatriot Sai Praneeth (the first instance of two Indian shuttlers reaching a Superseries final), reached the quarter-finals of the Badminton World Championships and was runner-up at the National Badminton Championships. 
 
 Currently back at second place in the BWF rankings for men’s singles, Srikanth on Tuesday received the Padma Shri, India’s fourth-highest civilian award. All eyes will be on Srikanth from April 12 when he takes the court at the Carrara Sports & Leisure Centre. 
 
 
