Jaipur: State’s government-run child speciality JK Lon Hospital has claimed to have biggest neonatal ICU facility in the country when it will add another 105 beds to its existing 64-bed capacity on Friday.

 It is the hospital where children from neighbouring states, including Delhi, UP, MP and Haryana, are brought for treatment.
 
 At the neonatal ICUs, infants up to 28 days are admitted for treatment. In the state, the mortality of neonates is as high as 28 deaths per 1,000 live births. Recently, the health department presented has presented a report at Rajasthan High Court’s Jodhpur’s branch stating that from October 2016 to October 2017 a total of 32,002 newborns had died.
 
 But,   is the facility specially designed for the sickest newborns for specialised care. Now, JK Lon Hospital officials pointed out that NICU is the place, where doctors provide highest level of care available for premature and critically ill neonates.
 
 “We have 64 beds already at NICU in our hospital. But, the space was insufficient as we receive more children in comparison to the capacity we have in the hospital. Because of shortage of beds, we have to admit neonates who should be admitted to NICU in general newborn unit, which has facility of oxygen and bipap machines. But, in NICU, we have additional facilities including ventilators,” said, Dr Ashok Gupta, medical superintendent, JK Lon Hospital.
 
 Now, the NICU will be inaugurated at the hospital on Friday, the total bed capacity of NICUs will be increased to 169 beds. “We claim that now we have the highest number of NICU beds in any hospital in the country,” he said.
 
 JK Lon Hospital doctors claimed that they receive at least one third of the patients from neighbouring states. “This new facility will not only be helpful in bringing down infant mortality rate of the state but also it will help saving newborns coming from other states,” a JK Hospital doctor said.
 
 On an average, a sick newborn stays at NICU for 9 to 10 days, said a JK Lon hospital official.
 
 Specialised Care On The Cards
 
 —105-bedded Neonatal ICU will be inaugurated on Friday
 
 — Rs8 crore have been spent on construction and equipment
 
 — It is constructed on 15,500 square feet area
 
 — It has facilities such as radiant warmer, ventilators
 
 — It has bubble CPAP facility, a non-invasive ventilation strategy for newborns with infant respiratory distress syndrome
 
 — The other equipment are multipara monitors, power saving devices and phototherapy
 
 — Pre-mature newborns and neonates with birth defects, hypothermia, jaundice, low birth weight, septicaemia, birth asphyxia will be benefitted from NICU
 
 
