NAGPUR: The Nagpur police have topped the table in the state for speed of completing police verification report (PVR) for passports in 2018 among all   (DPHQs). On an average, city police took six days to complete a PVR while making passports, whereas Nagpur Rural police were last on the list, taking a surprising 598 days to complete the PVR.

 Commissioner of police K Venkatesham felicitated police inspector HN Mote, constable   and other constables of intelligence wing from all police stations with certificates during a press conference at   on Wednesday. DCP (SB) Nilesh Bharne spoke of how the team has put the procedure on fast track and reduced the number of days required from 39 to six since August 2017.
 
 The central government had launched a mobile passport police app, called m-App, for submission of PVR from January 25, 2016, to reduce the required time limit to 21 days. However, the actual use of m-App started after the state-level conference held by foreign ministry’s consular, passport and visa division for officers of Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra at   on August 21, 2017.
 
 In the conference, other states shared their procedure for PVR, where city cops were told that Telangana took just six days, Andhra Pradesh nine, and Gujarat 11 days for PVR. Maharashtra used to take 39 days, whereas Nagpur City took 28 days. The CP said that after coming to know the huge difference, they re-engineered the procedure.
 
 He added, “We got positive results soon. In November, the number of days reduced drastically from 31 to 10. Cops were trained to give fast and perfect service to applicants by value addition. In January, they broke their own record.”
 
 Besides Nagpur, other cities which featured in the top five ranks by decreasing the required days for PVR are Thane (Rural), Raigad, Buldhana, Satara, Washim, Ratnagiri, Kolhapur, and Palghar. Still catching up with these cities were Aurangabad police (42 days), Mumbai (30), Navi Mumbai (35), Nashik (28) and Pune city (23).
 
 To operate the m-App, the deployed police constables were provided with a tab on which they received online applications. Constable Dhoble told TOI, “City police stations receive around 3,000 online passport applications a month. I had gone to Mumbai to learn the m-App and operated it in September on pilot basis.”
 
 TOI asked PI  , rural department, the reason for being in the last position in the state list. He said, “Police stations have the tabs and online verification has also started, but due to lack of network connectivity in the interior regions, the procedure gets interrupted.” 
 
 
