Hyderabad: Inspired by the Norse god of sun, wealth and prosperity – Freyr, this Hyderabad-based startup literally harnesses the power of the sun to electrify business establishments as well as homes in urban and rural areas in a sustainable manner.

  saw the light of day in 2014 when friends Saurabh Marda and Radhika Choudary decided to move back to India from the US, where both of them were settled with their respective families, and put their experience of working with large solar power players to use in powering up their business.
 
 “In 2014, we felt the prices of solar systems had fallen and the private sector could power on without government support. We identified a few gaps in the rooftop solar space and decided to start up,” explains Saurabh Marda, co-founder and managing director, Freyr Energy.
 
 What helped them find their niche was the realisation that both large players and regional ones were hampered by their own unique challenges. While the biggies were busy competing for a few large players, putting the squeeze on everyone in the bargain, for the regional players the biggest challenge was the higher cost of installation.
 
 “The large players were unable to figure out how to service the small guys like MSMEs and home owners while the smaller regional players were unable to figure out how to go from one particular region to another without their costs increasing exponentially. That is where we found a significant gap and our opportunity,” he adds.
 
 The duo put in their savings of about Rs 1 crore and started out from Telangana in May 2014. By the year end they had embarked on their first rural electrification project at Paderu in Andhra Pradesh. They also simultaneously begun working on their inhouse sales and design tool SunPro, an iOS and Android mobile app they eventually launched in May 2017.
 
 But in less than two years of starting out, they realised life is not all sunshine and roses as dark clouds of uncertainty soon began hovering on the horizon. Rainy days followed when the US company, for whom they were subcontracting and which was the mainstay of their business, went belly up.
 
 That’s when Freyr Energy and its promoters found themselves facing an existential crisis – the classic to be or not to be dilemma. But they decided to soldier on and began aggressively bidding for projects while working on developing SunPro as a standalone product that could be made available to everyone. 
 
 The app allows the startup’s sales team and channel partners to instantly design and price solar systems based on the end customer’s needs, while Freyr also helps customers secure loans from banks and PPA’s. “Our goal was to create a grassroots movement. We wanted to democratise the process and give opportunities to people. The app asks simple questions to gauge the customer requirement, factors in state policy, tells which vendors will supply the material, among other things. It took us three years to develop SunPro with the help of constant feedback from the field,” adds Marda.
 
 Soon the hard work paid off and the sun was back shining on their endeavour. They began expanding Freyr’s base and have since even forayed into hitherto unchartered territory like Maoist infested areas and the hilly terrains of the north east. “I have been asked at gunpoint in a Maoist area whether this (the solar project) will give them electricity and their kids will get to study. But once they see the difference it makes to their lives, all doors open,” he recounts.
 
 Today, with a network of about 50-75 certified installers and over 1,000 channel partners in 16 states in India and three overseas markets — Ghana, Nigeria and US — Freyr is eyeing a bigger international play.
 
 “We realised SunPro, which is almost like a CRM tool, can be very useful in developed markets as it can be customised for different clients and countries. There is a lot of interest in licencing it, especially in South East Asia. We are now sharpening focus on our product and consulting business with SunPro, which is gaining traction overseas,” chips in Radhika Choudary, adding that the company is eyeing a presence in 25 countries, including nations in Africa and South East Asia.
 
 And with the sun continuing to shine on the rooftop solar business in India that has set a target of 40GW rooftop solar installations by 2022, the company hopes to grow by leaps and bounds back home. 
 
 “Last year rooftop solar in India grew 40-50% and we grew 300%. We turned profitable in 2016-17 with a revenue of Rs 12 crore and expect to continue growing at 300% over the next four to five years,” says Marda, adding that while residential rooftop accounts for nearly 20% of business, MSMEs and village electrification and government programmes account for nearly 40% each.
 
 In line with the growth anticipated in the domestic market, the startup is now moving into a new office and looking at hiring another 15-25 people across India as it charges up for the next phase of growth, explains Choudary.
 
 “Today, we are a zero inventory company and we are able to install within three to five weeks. Our cost of customer acquisition is zero thanks to our mode of operations. We develop the solutions with the help of local partners, our domestic sourcing is 80-90% and our biggest clients are MSMEs and residential customers by volume,” the duo points out elaborating on their strengths.
 
 
