CHENNAI: A neighbour who identified the bag that S   carried with the one found at the crime scene, two teeth and an undergarment with semen stains — these were the clinching pieces of evidence that helped the prosecution nail the 23-year-old in the sexual assault and murder of a seven-year-old in  .

 In a trial spanning nearly two months, 30 witnesses deposed and 45 documents and 19 related material, including the bag he used to carry the child’s body and the petrol can he used to burn it, were submitted.
 
 
  
 
 The investigating officers have nailed Dashvanth proving him guilty of raping and murdering the seven-year-old child after sexually assaulting her. Ambattur deputy commissioner of police S   said, “Investigation officers followed the case meticulously to make it a tight one.”
 
 The clinching evidences like ‘last seen theory’ and DNA test results convinced the judge P Velmurugan to pronounce Dashvanth guilty of sexual assault and murder. Narrating the ‘last seen theory’, lawyer   said, “One of the neighbours had seen him playing with the child and his pet dog around 6.15pm. After that the child went missing.”
 
 At least 45 minutes later, another neighbour saw Dashvanth on his bike with a bag. Later, a staff from a filling station confirmed Dashvanth had bought petrol in a pet bottle. The bag he was carrying and the empty pet bottle with traces of petrol remains inside were recovered near the spot where police found the girl’s charred remains.
 
 As the child’s body was burned fully, doctors performed spot postmortem. The forensic science laboratory officials confirmed the identity of the dead child by superimposing a photograph of her burnt skull and her protrait. Forensic experts also recovered the child’s teeth and unburnt hair which were matched with the DNA of her parents to confirm her identity. While examining the bag, police recovered the child’s undergarment which contained traces of semen. Police examined the semen and it matched with Dashvanth’s DNA. This confirmed that he had sexually assaulted the child before killing her.
 
 Special public prosecutor   and senior counsel   appeared for the prosecution. Initially, Dashvanth engaged a lawyer, Vijayakumar, for his defence. But after he murdered his mother Sarala,   withdrew himself from the case and later legal aid centre lawyer   appeared for Dashvanth till the end of the trial.
 
 
