Thiruvananthapuram: The dawn-to-dusk   called by various dalit organizations against the alleged move to dilute the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act was near total in the state. Barring a few incidents, no major violence was reported on Monday.

 At major commercial streets like SM Street in Kozhikode and Chalai in Thiruvananthapuram, protesters forced traders to close their shops. In Thiruvananthapuram, dalit activists blocked MG Road, in front of secretariat, till 5pm obstructing traffic.
 
 Around 60 dalit leaders, including Adivasi Gotramahasabha leader M Geethanandan, were detained by police when they attempted to block the road in Ernakulam. Police said there were incidents of stone pelting and blockade of roads at some places. “No major incident of violence was reported,” officers with special branch said.
 
  Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala and other senior leaders walked from their residences to KPCC office to attend the meet organized by Congress to express its solidarity.
 
 Former defence minister A K Antony rode pillion on a two-wheeler to reach the spot. Condemning the arrest of Geetanandan, he said, “Despite strong laws existing against atrocities towards dalits, cases of violence are on increase in the country,” Antony said.
 
 KSRTC could operate only 2,459 services on Monday, against its daily average of 6,300 services. Around 10 buses were damaged in stone pelting at different places. 
 
 “We had cent per cent attendance of staff, but, could not operate all schedules. We focused on city and town areas, for the convenience of passengers,” said A Hemachandran , CMD of KSRTC.
 
 Dalit activist Dhanya Raman, who was at the forefront of the protest in the capital city, said the move to dilute the act was engineered by people with casteist mentality. 
 
 When asked about violence in the protest, Raman said they were children of Ambedkar and Ayyankali who fought against injustices without any bloodshed. “We suspect external elements are instigating violence. Geethanandan’s arrest was unfortunate. Such things are unheard of during hartals called by other outfits. This is another form of caste-based discrimination,” she pointed out.
 
 The hartal was called by various outfits like Cherama Sambava Development Society (CSDS), Akhila Kerala Cheramar Hindu Mahasabha, National Dalit Liberation Front, Dalit Human Rights Movement, Kerala Cheramar Sangham, Social Liberation Front, Bahujan Samaj Party and Dravida Varga Aikya Munnani. 
 
 
