Panchkula: After failing to find the body of   Bala, wife of a   district courts advocate, the police are now focusing on tracing the suspects who removed it from near the Sector 23 garbage dump here. According to the police, someone saw the body lying at the dump on January 17, but did not inform the cops on time. In the meantime, some unknown persons removed it. Since then, the body has become a mystery for the police.

 The 12 days of interrogation of Rajni’s husband   has also resulted in a naught. At present, the three accused, Manmohan, his lover Monica and her brother-in-law Sandeep Gill, are in judicial custody.
 
 With eight evidence against Manmohan, police are confident of nailing him, said SIT in-charge additional commissioner of police (ACP) Adarshdeep Singh. He said police were now working to trace the other suspects, probably two, who removed the body after it was seen by a passer-by. The passer-by apprised the police of it a day later.
 
 Adarshdeep said, “After Monica and Sandeep confessed to have killed Rajni, a Sector 19 resident, in a moving car on January 16, we established from the mobile tower locations and   cameras that Manmohan was not physically present at the dumping ground. It means he employed some other persons for disposing it of. We are now making efforts to trace these persons.”
 
 Panchkula police are also relying on the narco test of Manmohan, as he is a hard nut to crack. Talking to the TOI, commissioner of police A S Chawla said the police have enough circumstantial evidence — like motive, mobile tower locations, call details of Manmohan, Monica and Sandeep a day before Rajni went missing— to prove the case. Also police have photographs of Manmohan and Monica’s marriage, which prove the motive. Besides, there is evidence of Manmohan hatching a conspiracy at Tibetan Market in   where a day before the murder, on January 15, all three had met. On January 16, Manmohan lodged a missing complaint. That day, Rajni was seen going out of her house in the morning and the lawyer was seen with Monica and Sandeep near his house.
 
 
