NAGPUR: The   police have booked a patient’s relatives and acquaintances for creating ruckus at Midas Hospital on April 10 after the death of the boy due to severe hepatitis. They have been booked under various sections of Indian Penal Code, and Maharashtra Prevention of Violence and Damage or Loss of Property Act 2010. Police have assured immediate action against the mobsters.

  (VHA) has welcomed the police action, and VHA secretary Dr   has demanded conviction under the 2010 Act. “The police have identified four main persons in the ransacking and assault on reception staff of hospital. They are studying the CCTV footage to identify others. Just booking the persons is not enough. We want the culprits to be convicted under the 2010 Act,” he said.
 
 On April 10, an 18-year-old boy had died due to fulminant hepatic failure at Midas Hospital. The body and death certificate of the patient was handed over to the relatives even though they had not settled the hospital bills.
 
 However, a huge mob gathered at the hospital a few hours after the death at 9am, and created a ruckus. The mob damaged hospital property as well as manhandled the reception staff. Many VHA members turned up at the hospital in support as an alert was sent from the hospital. Bajaj Nagar police too reached the spot and controlled the situation.
 
 VHA and members of Indian Medical Association later met commissioner K Venkatesham, deputy commissioner of police- Zone I Krishnakant Upadhya, and PI Incharge Bajaj Nagar Gyaneshwar Patil requesting immediate action against the mob on the basis of complaint lodged by Midas Hospital led by Dr  .
 
 The chief minister’s office has been following up on the case to allay the apprehensions in the mind of medical professionals while treating serious patients.
 
 IMA and VHA have thanked the CM and Nagpur police for acting swiftly at the time of the incident, and later following the issue properly. “If rioters are booked and action is taken it will deter people from taking the law into their hands against doctors,” said Dr Uday Mahorkar, VHA president.
 
 
