KOCHI: While most schools in the country start their day with a mandatory prayer many are uncomfortable with the idea of such invocations having a specific religious identity.

 In light of the recent controversy over the ‘Hindu religious’ nature of morning assembly prayer in Kendriya Vidyalayas, TOI spoke to a range of social commentators on the usefulness of prayers. While a section of them were of the view that prayer songs of even quasireligious nature would have an impact on the scientific temperament of children, others felt that it would help students empathise with other faiths.
 
 Social critic, BRP   said that prayers by their nature are ‘sectarian’. “Most prayers are inclined towards some religion, deity or line of faith. And if the prayer does not have a specific religious identity but deals with the idea of God, it would still be against the position of an agnostic or an atheist,” said Bhaskar, who feels that public and private educational institutions should not be imposing prayers on children.
 
 Environmental activist   said schools often make the morning prayer mandatory and does not give students the option of not partaking in it. In case a student decides not participate in the prayer with the consent of the school, they are likely to be regarded as a social outsider.
 
 M K Prasad, former pro vice-chancellor of the  , does not find anything wrong in students reciting prayers or a pledge, which aims to promote concepts like peace, justice and love for nature. But schools should stay away from offering prayers addressed to God or having religious shades.
 
 BRP Bhaskar said there is no need for schools to make the students pray if the intention is to impart moral knowledge.
 
 “One of the many responsibilities of a school is to impart scientific temperament and sometimes, often religious traditions run against the scientific temperament,” said Bhaskar.
 
 Educationist Lakshmi Ramachandran, a former student and teacher of   said the prayers at schools serve an important purpose — helping students to empathise with other religions.
 
 She said that ideally, schools must indulge in the prayers that are secular in nature. “I have been in schools which adopt prayers that are acceptable to several faiths and this in a way helped students to develop empathy and also an understanding of other faiths,” said Lakshmi Ramachandran.
 
 Schools should help students to engage in conversations about faith rather than completely blocking it in their academic lives.
 
 “School is an important part of the child’s formative years and it is important that they explore and learn to respect the faith of others,” she added.
 
