MYSURU:   is no longer a phenomenon of nature, but has, in the late 20th and 21st century become an extremely critical and complex area, opined former director of the National School of Drama   on Sunday.

 Anuradha, who was a participant in the National Seminar on migration held as a part Bahuroopi-2018, pointed out that migration accrued a different meaning when it was applied to people. “When birds migrate, they do so to survive, to populate and remain alive in different areas. But migration has a different meaning in terms of people. A migrant can mean an exile, daily worker, refugee, wanderer or it could mean a cosmopolitan nomad. In collective terms, it could mean colonial settlement. It could refer to the diaspora, slave transportation, human trafficking. Migration of refugees explains the problem of inequality in the world,” she added.
 
 Delving into the problem of the identity crisis of refugees, Anuradha added, “Despite being physically present, refugees are considered spheres of zero. It’s peculiar – while migration refers to the movement of refugees from one place to another during the war, this individual does not exist on paper. So, while migration is physically present, it is absent on paper.”
 
 Director of the Centre for Public Understanding of Science TS Channesh, who spoke on ‘Agriculture, Environment and Technology’, observed that it was migration that led to the start of agriculture. “Vegetables such as green chilly, potatoes are products of migration. Domestication of various breeds of cats and dogs is also because of migration. Migration of farmers has led to a severe imbalance in agriculture. Research shows that more than 2,500 people are quitting farming every day,” Channesh added.
 
 He voices concerns over insecurity growing among the farming community despite the state boasting as many as six agriculture universities. “Only changes in government policies can ensure sustainability in agriculture,” Channesh said.
 
 Naturalist K Manu, on the other hand, spoke on the ‘Push and Pull’ effect and its impact on migration. “It was curiosity about the flight of birds that led humans to start research on migration. While migration is a part of the ecosystem, humans have endangered the lives of animals and birds. In order to save wildlife, their places of birth, feeding points and travel paths need to be protected. We need a democratic system that also includes welfare of animals,” said Manu.
 
 Bharat Mansata, CR Pradeep, Valli were present.
 
 
