INDORE: Granting relief to Indore Municipal Corporation,   on Thursday dismissed the petitions filed by residents of Machhi Bazaar, Kadav and Nayapitha area who had challenged   high court’s order allowing the widening of road between Sarwate and Gangwal bus stand.

 Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel and Justice Rohinton Fali passed judgment in two SLPs filed by residents and found no grounds to interfere with the challenged order. 
 
 The judgment has paved the way for applicability of Section 305 of Municipal Corporation Act — granting power to the corporation to demolish any building or part of it extending beyond the regular line of a public street, either as existing or as determined for the future— in other demolition projects.
 
 On behalf of residents, advocate Kapil Sibbal and advocate Vivek Tankha, challenged the section of the act, alleging that it gave the corporation draconian powers of removal of any building, including those constructed legally. The residents also challenged the master plan by the town and country planning department.
 
 However, advocate Mukul Rohtagi and Saurabh Mishra, appearing on behalf of IMC and state argued that Section 305 gave powers which were necessary for the development of any city and IMC had offered valid compensation to those whose had submitted their building permissions and documents showing the construction to be legal.
 
 If the affected persons were dissatisfied with the compensation offered, they could file a civil suit at lower court where the jurisdiction lay, the corporation argued. IMC also claimed that they had offered additional FAR to those whose houses had been affected as a part of the demolition drive.
 
 After hearing the arguments over the issue at length, the court dismissed the two petitions filed by the residents of the area, paving way for the widening of the road. The judgment of Supreme Court in this case is also expected to make way for many other similar road widening projects in the city which had been challenged on the grounds of applicability of Section 305.
 
 
