CHENNAI: Thrusting an unpreferred channel on subscribers in the name of 'bouquets' and not allowing them to choose channels of their choice on a la carte basis will be a thing of the past, as the Madras high court has upheld the legality of  's key tariff policy regulations on Wednesday. 

 Justice MM Sundresh, to whom the case was referred after the first bench of Chief Justice   and Justice M Sundar delivered a split verdict on March 2, said about the impugned policy thus: "It is nothing but an attempt to stop a unilateral thrust of unwarranted dust along with grain."
 
 The ruling, however, would not come into force effect immediately as  's senior counsel P Wilson acceded to the requests of broadcasters and agreed to maintain status quo for two weeks.
 
 As per the March 2016 regulations of TRAI, all service providers must offer at least 100 free to air channels at a base price of 130, and when given in bouquets, they should not mix pay channels and free to air channels. In other words, when channels are offered in a bouquet, one bouquet should contain either pay channels or free to air channels only. Similarly, high definition and standard definition formats of the same channel should not be in the same bouquet. 
 
 The impugned regulations and the tariff order also made it mandatory for the broadcasters to declare the MRPs. 
 
 
 
 
 While TRAI said the ‘mantra’ had three customer-friendly components — transparency, non-discrimination and on-demand — Star India and Vijay moved the high court questioning its legality. After a single judge upheld the regulations, the channels filed the present appeals, which ended in a split verdict on March 2. While chief justice Indira Banerjee ruled in favour of TRAI, Justice Sundar quashed it, necessitating the matter being referred to a third judge.
 
 On Wednesday, concurring with the submissions of TRAI senior counsel P Wilson, Justice Sundresh said: “The general public is the king, being the subscriber whose interest should be guarded and protected under the Act as a prime factor. TRAI is, thus, obligated to take adequate measures as mandated by the statute.”
 
 Wilson submitted that offering of the channels was not market-driven, adding, “the very market is driver by the broadcasters, who left no room for any choice to the end user – the subscriber.” Though broadcasters could call inflation of prices and artificial adjustments as smart business methodology, it did not help the cause of the general public and the new entrants, he said.
 
 Broadcasters, represented by senior advocates Abhishek Manu Singhvi, P Chidambaram and Gopal Jain argued that TRAI must undertake a comprehensive review of interconnect regulations, and quality of services, and added that the wholesale price cap must be fixed at Rs 28 ‘to monetise flagship and driver channel’.
 
 Wilson said the broadcasters have to now declare in public domain they are free to air channels and MRP of their pay channels. They cannot discriminate any distributor and the pay channel price should be uniform to all. The regulations and tariff order are consumerfriendly, allowing them to choose and demand their favourite channels and distributors.
 
 
