By- Santoshkumar.B@timesgroup.com

 BENGALURU: High drama prevailed at   police station on Friday morning when two brothers, summoned in connection with a property dispute case, stormed into the station and flung abuses at police personnel who knew nothing about the Indian Penal Code ( ). The miffed policemen promptly booked another case against the duo and sent them to jail.
 
 The brothers are realtors and residents of  , off  . Police are yet to release their names.
 
 They had been asked to come to the police station following a complaint from homemaker  , who accused them of objecting to the construction of her house in   6th Stage.
 
 She alleged that they were forcing her to leave an additional setback of 3ft. In her complaint, she said they assaulted her construction labourers and threatened them of dire consequences if they continued with the work.
 
 Based on the complaint, the cops registered a case against them under IPC sections 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 447 (punishment for criminal trespass), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) and told them to come to the station.
 
 The cops were in for a shock when the duo walked in and started raining expletives on them. They had brought a copy of the Indian Penal Code and charged cops with being ignorant of various sections of the law.
 
 “Apart from threatening to file a private case in court, they also claimed they knew several senior police officers. They slammed the IPC book on the table, threw stationery and created a ruckus. They also abused head constables who tried to stop them and tore the uniform of three constables,” a police officer said.
 
 Police said they have registered a case against the brothers under IPC Sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) 504, 506 and 34. The duo was arrested and remanded in judicial custody.
 
