NEW DELHI: Soon, you may have to apply — and pay — for a permit to park your   outside your house. And, if you have more than one car, you may have to buy   in an  .

 These provisions are part of the draft guidelines for parking management area plan submitted by an expert committee. Last month, a draft notification of the Delhi Maintenance and Management of Parking Rules, 2017, was published after LG Anil Baijal’s approval.
 
 All civic agencies will have to prepare and implement area-specific integrated parking plans in accordance with the parking rules. The plans will have to be prepared within four months of the notification of the parking rules. A draft guidelines for parking management area plan has been submitted by an expert committee on parking policy, which will serve as a guide and a template for civic agencies to frame area-specific plans.
 
  
  
 “The aim of the guidelines is to bring discipline in parking, particularly in residential areas. If the guidelines are followed, residents will know their exact parking slots and there will be no haphazard parking in residential neighbourhoods,” a senior transport department official said. “The guidelines are not final and have not been prepared by the department, but by an expert committee. These will now be discussed in meetings with all stakeholders and finer points will be finalised,” he said.
 The guidelines propose that civic agencies will first define an “area” where a local parking management plan will be implemented. In case of residential areas, legal parking sites will be identified and clearly demarcated. Once parking areas are demarcated, residential parking permits can be issued in the first phase. As the legal parking area in public spaces in neighbourhoods will be identified and demarcated along with the local residents, the number of residential parking permits to be issued will be based on the demarcated legal spaces in the area, the guidelines say.
 
 In the second phase, pricing of residential permits may be introduced and residents will have to apply for these.
 
 “Ideally, one parking slot will be allotted to each household, but if there are more cars than one in a household, extra parking space can be allotted, either through auction or a lottery,” the official said. Those who are unable to get a permit will be put on a waiting list. In such a case, the price of permits will go up after a period of six months or a year.
 
 The guidelines aim to eliminate free parking and personal vehicles will have to parked in a fully-paid space, based on the “user pay” principle. Any area or spot that is not notified and physically demarcated as a parking site will automatically be considered a “no-parking zone” and relevant penalties will be applicable, the guidelines say. Free parking will be allowed only for cycles, cycle ricksh aws, e-rickshaws and public transport vehicles.
 
 The guidelines, however, don’t spell out a parking pricing strategy, which will be further refined based on the detailed guidelines being developed by a parking pricing sub-group of the committee.
 
 The guidelines also suggest that during the sale of a residential or commercial project, parking space will be sold separately, and not as a package deal where parking is a “hidden cost” to the buyer who may or may not want to own a car.
 
 
