PATNA: A day before PM Narendra Modi’s visit to Motihari, JD(U) on Monday revived its long-pending demand of granting special category status to Bihar.

 The PM will visit Motihari on Tuesday to participate in ‘Satyagraha to Swachchhagraha’ programme being organized as part of the concluding ceremony of Mahatma Gandhi’s Champaran Satyagrah’s centenary celebrations.
 
 CM Nitish Kumar’s JD(U) is running a coalition government with the BJP in the state. “PM Modi should grant special status to Bihar,” JD(U) general secretary Shyam Razak said on Monday.
 
 On March 19, CM said he never gave up the demand for special category status to Bihar “even for a day” since he first raised the issue 12 years ago. After the TDP pulled out of the NDA seeking similar benefits for Andhra Pradesh, the opposition RJD alleged that he had become silent on the issue.
 
 “I had written to the then prime minister for a special status to Bihar shortly after assuming power in the state. Later, we got a resolution passed in the state assembly to the effect. Since then, we have been raising the demand relentlessly and I have not strayed even for a day. I am amused to see those who were never concerned about the issue but suddenly questioning my ‘silence’,” Nitish had said.
 
 On March 8, the RJD demanded Nitish should ask the Centre for the special status to Bihar. Leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav had also accused the CM of compromising with the long-pending demand for his personal gains, including a Z-plus security cover and a special bungalow in Delhi.
 
 “Nitish Chacha should listen to the voice of his ‘conscience’ and press the Centre to give the special status to Bihar. I had on February 5 written a letter to Nitish ji asking him to raise the issue with PM Narendra Modi, but he hasn’t replied yet. In case the Centre fails to fulfil the demand, Nitish ji should snap ties with the NDA,” Tejashwi had said.
 
 Raising the issue, Tejashwi a few days back, said, If Nitish Kumar is a strong leader, he should directly demand special category status for Bihar from Modi.”
 
 
