It has been a long time since khadi became a pitch to promote Indian textiles globally and made way for the promotion of more indigenous textiles. In the last few years, khadi has been a prominent part of major fashion events across India with the fashion fraternity and government bodies joining hands to give khadi a glam makeover. In yet another fashion show, organised by the   ( ) and Khadi & Village Industries Commission ( ), four designers –  ,  ,   and   – presented their latest collections in khadi and showed how the humble fabric has become an important part of their designs. 

  
  Models in Payal Jain’s creation 
 
 The fashion show, titled Khadi – Transcending Boundaries, was a part of the International SME Convention 2018 at NSIC Grounds. Among the guests at the event were Giriraj Singh, Union Minister of State for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME), Arun Kumar Panda, Secretary, MSME, and many foreign delegates.
  
  Models in Poonam Bhagat's designs
 
  
 
 
  The idea was to create a variety of designs with the use of khadi, and the designers put up a mix of ethnic and modern designs. While talking about the show and how it promotes khadi,  , President, FDCI, said, “Since we wanted to promote khadi as the fabric of the masses, we had a mix of ethnic as well as modern designs. The idea behind this show was to showcase the design possibilities with khadi. We have been working with KVIC and MSME on different initiatives and we are looking forward to more interesting collaborations for the promotion of khadi.”
 
  
  Models in Anju Modi's collection
 
  
 
 
  The foreign delegates who came to attend the show will soon be receiving a special gift from KVIC – a custom-made jacket, which will be their introduction to the fabric. “We now aim to take khadi beyond India and the idea behind this event was to show people that khadi is not limited to just kurtas, pyjamas and jackets, khadi can be a style statement too. Through designer shows like these, we want to show the world how fashionable khadi can be. We plan to do much larger exhibitions and other events to make khadi popular globally,” said Arun Kumar Panda.
 
  
  Outfits from Rohit Bal’s collection
  
  
  (L-R) Sunil Sethi, President, Fashion Design Council of India (FDCI),  , Chairman, Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC) and Giriraj Singh, Union Minister of State for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises
 
  
  (L) Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, Union Minister for Minority Affairs and (R) Arun Kumar Panda, Secretary, MSME
 
  
  Prahlad Kakkar
 
 
  
