For debutant film director GK  , directing has been a part of his career for a long time. And the ambition to turn film director has been one that he has cherished from childhood. Ahead of his upcoming release 3 Ghante, 30 Dina, 30 Second starring   and   in lead roles, he tells us of his journey so far and what the true inspiration behind his upcoming tale is…
  all the way
 I was born in Bengaluru. I am proud to say that I am a true Bengalurean in that sense. In fact, my grandfather used to be a post master during the British era. My father was a cinema operator and during those days, he enjoyed that immense respect that came to him through his profession as people would look up to him as though he were a magician. This had a profound impact on my mind. 
 I would often convince my parents to bring home these prints and watch them on walls through lens. Back then, I was most curious about content rather than the technicalities involved.
 My love for storytelling and writing too began around the same time. I recall writing a play and even acting in its staged version when I was in Class 2. I got a lot of appreciation from my school fraternities. Quite naturally, I was more involved with cultural activities at school rather than academics. I wrote poems, plays and stories. I may not have been able to pursue academics, also due to financial constraints, but I have always been a voracious reader. I read just about everything that I could lay my hands on and some of my favourite writers include SL Byrappa, Yandamuri Veerendranath, Poornachandra Tejaswi, Nagesh Hedge and TaRaSu.
 Travel and creativity
 Adventurous sports is yet another one of my hobbies. Being a trekker, I think I have explored each and every corner of the Western Ghats during my days in college. I even cycled all over the country, I have climbed the  . I think all these activities helped build my creativity in some way. A lot of my writings are based on my experiences during my travels.
 My calling
 I was employed at the forest department for a while, but the arts kept calling out to me. In 1996, I resigned from my government job and took up working in   television. My first venture was Saagara Parvata — a tele-serial that I directed and co-produced over time. Back then, if we wanted to produce tele-serials, we were also required to get in advertisers for our product. That was how we began our advertising agency. I now have nearly 20 years of experience in producing ad films, along with my peers. But even after all this, I felt something was amiss. I dream of making films remained unfulfilled.
 The story behind my story
 In 2015, I decided to take a break from all my other projects and focus solely on making a film. I had this urge to tell a rather strong story, one that actually happened to someone close to me.
 A friend of mine, who hails from a dignified family, fell in love with a girl. Their love story faced all the issues that you hear off — religious issues, status issues etc. Things were not working out and this friend of mine became a modern Devdas. Unfortunately, he also took the extreme step of committing suicide in his attempt to teach a lesson to those who opposed his true love. Sure, there was shock and grief and all that comes with it, but after a while life just goes on. My friend remained a lesson of the past for all of us.
 This incident made me think about the repercussions of what we understand as love during our adolescent stage. What is the relevance and existence of love on this earth? And if love was a natural and common phenomenon, why then does society give it so much importance? Why is there so much fuss surrounding it? By glorifying love, our society has made it a business of sorts. Love, therefore, is like an ocean of a subject. And I decided to make a film on love.
 
 
