PATNA: A day after Class X results were declared by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), schools in Patna started their admission process from Wednesday.

 Forms for admission to Class XI at   are available on its website and the last date for their submission is June 1 (till 11am). Students are required to submit the downloaded copy of their marksheets along with the application form. The aggregate percentage required for science stream is 85% and 90% each in mathematics and science while 80% for commerce stream.
 
 St Karen’s High School and St Karen’s Secondary School have also started selling online application forms for admission to Class XI. The submission of forms also began from Wednesday. 
 
 Notre Dame Academy (NDA), on the other hand, will sell forms from 8.30am to 11.30am on May 31 and June 1. According to a notice issued by the school administration, priority will be given to NDA students. 
 
 “Students, who scored 85% and above in Class X and in each subject, including mathematics, science and English, will be eligible to apply for science stream while others scoring above 90% will get admission forms. For commerce, minimum pass percentage should be 80% and 85% in English and mathematics each for NDA students. An 85% aggregate and 90% each in English and mathematics are mandatory for other students. For arts stream, the cut-off marks is 70% for NDA students and 85% for others,” says the notification.
 
 At Loyola High School, the admission form and prospectus will be available from 8am to 11am till May 31 (for non-Loyolites) and June 1 (for Loyolites). The cut-off for both is 90%. Entrance test will be held for non-Loyolites on June 3, followed by an interview from June 4 to 6 while Loyolites will get admission through interview which is scheduled for June 2.
 
 Application forms at DAV Public School-BSEB will be available from June 1 to 8 and the entrance exam will be held on June 18. At DAV-Khagaul, forms will be available till June 11 and the entrance exam will be on June 14. Students can get the forms for admission to Dr G L Dutta DAV Public School-Transport Nagar from June 1 to June 7 and the entrance exam will be on June 8.
 
 
