MUMBAI: Suhas  , the new vice-chancellor of  , took charge from the acting vice chancellor   on Saturday morning in the presence of university officials, members of the board of studies and college principals.

 
 After taking charge, Pednekar interacted with the officials and sought their co-operation to retain the glory of the 160-year-old university and also stressed on efforts needed at all levels. He said that he has been entrusted with a big responsibility and he needs support from all quarters to handle it.
 
 Apart from announcing the results of the ongoing exams on time and giving marksheets to students, he also promised to seek   accreditation at the earliest. Though Pednekar took charge on Saturday, he will be joining office only on Wednesday after the long weekend. He will also move to the VC’s bungalow on the Kalina campus in the next few days.
 
 Pednekar was selected from among 102 aspirants in the two-month-long process. A principal of an affiliated college has been appointed as the varsity’s vice chancellor after almost three decades, which will prove to be an advantage, say principals. Former vicechancellor Sanjay Deshmukh was from the university’s life sciences department.
 
 Pednekar will not only have to announce well on time the results of close to 46,000 students who are expecting their results for the winter exams, but also the results of over 3.5 lakh students who gave the ongoing summer exam . With last year’s results delayed till October and its cascading effect on the next two exams, it will be a big challenge for the new VC to ensure that results are out on time and postgraduate admissions are not delayed for one more year, said a principal.
 
 Former vice-chancellor of the university,  , said that now that the VC is appointed, everyone must work together and support the university in all its endeavours.
 
 “I took stock of the exact scenario and the progress on assessment while interacting with officials at the university. It will need a few days to understand the developments on various aspects,” said Pednekar. He reiterated his request to university officials and college principals to not invite him for events and felicitations.
 
 
