GURUGRAM: Spring in the city – if it can be called that at all, what with climate change blurring the boundaries between seasons – is not the same without the  . But residents will be happy to note that the   is keeping its date with this time of year, even if it has arrived a month later than usual (let down by spring’s caprices).

  Expect a celebratory long weekend infused with the spirit of Punjab, for the 2018 edition opens on Baisakhi, the harvest festival whose robust rhythms so embody this northern state’s ethos, and closes with the appearance of the charismatic Nooran sisters, Sultana and Jyoti, who invoke the traditions of the Sham Chaurasia gharana, and draw deep from the well of Sufism.
 
  Prahlad Tipanya, who sings Kabir’s bhajans in the folk style of Malwa, had been confirmed earlier, as had the sisters. The third in the Utsav’s triad is Mahmood Farooqui, in town to present his latest dastangoi, ‘Dastan-e Karn Az Mahabharat’, on one of the central characters of the Mahabharata, the heroic Karna.
 
  “Jab Karn ki awaaz chattanon se takraigi to goonj uthegi (When Karna’s voice collides with the stones, this place will reverberate with the sound of thunder),” was Farooqui’s memorable response when the organisers invited him to perform at the Utsav. The dastango, of course, was referring to the massive hunks of rock that abound in the  , venue for the fest.
 
  Written and performed by Farooqui, and produced by Anusha Rizvi, this ‘dastan’ is unique. For one, the Mahabharata, unlike the Ramayana, is seldom the subject of declamatory attention (and even rarer for such a performance to be in Urdu). Farooqui, however, shifts from Urdu to Sanskrit to Arabic without so much as missing a beat, or a consonant.
 
  Further, it’s not very common for any solo performer, not just a dastango, to switch between different tongues. But then, Farooqui is one of a kind, and ‘Dastan-e Karn Az Mahabharat’ will be worth experiencing.
 
  Farooqui opens the Utsav, to be followed by Tipanya on the Saturday, and the Nooran sisters on the Sunday (with the promise of a soul-stirring finale). There’s a lot to look forward to, then, at the Gurgaon Utsav, which is being presented by the Arts and Literature Foundation in partnership with the Municipal Corporation of Gurgaon and the Department of Art and Cultural Affairs, Haryana. The Utsav will be held on April 13, 14 and 15, at the Aravalli Biodiversity Park.
 
 
