NEW DELHI: In what could signal the end of this year’s mild winter in the capital, day temperatures are likely to hit 30 degrees Celsius for the first time in the season on Wednesday, the met department said. Even nights and early mornings are forecast to become several degrees warmer by the end of the week.

 There’s a forecast of snowfall in the hills, and rain — even hailstorms at a few places— in the northern plains on Saturday. But the wet   will likely bypass Delhi-NCR, providing just a slight dip in temperatures for the next couple of days, the department said.
 
 “We expect the maximum   in Delhi tomorrow to cross the 30-degree mark. It was 29 degrees C today, a rise of more than two notches from the previous day,” said  , head of IMD’s Regional Weather Forecasting Centre here.
 
  
  
 Temperatures have been hitting 30 in February with increasing regularity in recent years (see graphic), which could be a sign of a warming trend. Last year, the highest temperature recorded during the month was 32.4 degrees C, an 11-year high. The 25-year record for the highest temperature during the month is 34.1 degrees C (on February 26, 2006).
 
 The warm spell expected this week could prove to be the end of winter in the capital. IMD’s medium range forecast, a four-week overview of likely weather conditions in the country, predicts higher than normal maximum and minimum temperatures across north India in the next two weeks.
 
 Met officials said temperatures anyway start climbing in the second half of February. This year, the absence of winter rain and snow in north India could just hasten the transition. The main reason for the largely dry weather has been an absence of western disturbances (WDs) coming into the northern plains, they said. 
 
 WDs, which are waves of cool, moist winds coming in from southern Europe and the  , are largely responsible for cold and wet spells in the north Indian winter. “We have had just one WD affecting the northern plains in each month since November. Normally, we get around three during each of these months,” said Srivastava.
 
 However, a WD, the second in February, is expected to bring snowfall in J&K,   and higher reaches of Uttarakhand on Saturday. “The northern plains will get rain, with hailstorms at some places. But we don't expect Delhi-NCR to get much rain, if at all,” the official added.
 
 
