NAGPUR: It was a fine chilly morning of a departing winter on Sunday. A best time to snuggle up in a blanket and have an extended sleep on weekend. Yet, thousands of Nagpurians thought otherwise. They downplayed the morning blues and flocked city’s most peaceful and tranquil spot —   — for stealing the show in the   and  .

 More than 7000 of the excited fitness freaks from various parts reached the area in front of chief minister’s official residence - Ramgiri, Civil Lines, before the dawn. They were all geared up to support various social causes and to promote and spread awareness about fitness by participating in the event.
 
 As been the case for much-awaited walkathon for previous editions, this year too, the 93-year-old  , who has been participating in the event since its inception, made his mark for the 15th straight year.
 
 “We were happy to see Mr Mehta. He has consistently shown his eagerness to stay fit. His participation is itself a message for all of us. He has shown how walking can help us stay fit,” Rina Sinha, president, Rotary Club, told TOI on Sunday.
 
 On one side Mehta and many senior citizens brought out their best and participated to stay fit. On the other, relatively younger fitness enthusiasts made the atmosphere lively by cheering, dancing and laughing out loud to make it a memorable morning. The food courts, which offered healthy snacks, gave a perfect start to the day for everyone.
 
 Clad in black T-shirt and green cap, the professionals from all walks of life along with cheerful youths exulted the one-of-a-kind occasion in style. As soon as the event kickstarted, everyone took their phone out, clicked selfies and groupies, to add to the collection of their memories.
 
 This year, the walkathon was unique in many ways. Not just the participants but also the school and colleges joined the hands to spread the message. Students from Centre Point School, BVM, Modern School, South Point School, St. Xaviers, Jain International, Royal Gondwana and Wonderland carried placard with a message: “say no to plastic”. The performance of a band from IGMC was the icing on the cake.
 
 After successful walkathon event, Rina aims to start various social initiatives. “With the assistance and guidance of all club members, our club wishes to build women’s toilets in public places. We have a model where employment would also be generated through it,” Rina, who hailed the efforts and support of Kapil Bahri, Jaspal Arneja, Navneet Jain, Mahendra Kamat, Rajendra Jaiswal, Parag Datey, Nivedita Pendharkar, Sarang Kale, Jumana Shakir, Shabbir Shakir, Sanjiv Chugh, Khushnoor Chugh, Namita Sharma, Amitabh Sinha and other club members, added.
 
 
