BENGALURU:  , the second most   after Rajasthan, don’t have it easy. But using some best practices, efficient   and finding access to the  , the community has time and again displayed how not all hope is lost.

 TOI caught up with four such farmers, whose innovations have made them successful financially. They were in Bengaluru as part of a project by the   (IIHS). 
 
 
 
 
 Shivalingappa Choragasti, 57, from Bhimahalli village in Kalaburagi, practises dryland agriculture using organic farming and afforestation. “When I finished SSLC in 1978, I had to choose between continuing agriculture in a place that saw no rain or look for a job. I chose agriculture because I cared for it. There are challenges, but there are also solutions,” he said.
 
  
 His efforts to practise dryland agriculture, organic farming and afforestation earned him the Krishi Prashasti Pandit award in 2009. With multiple borewells having failed, he was at the brink of giving up farming, when he heard of rainwater harvesting. Not only did he try it, he even mastered it with check dams, sunken pits, farm ponds and harvesting tanks, which eventually increased the groundwater levels in his fields. Then, about 12 years ago, he took up organic farming, which he says has helped him reduce input cost tremendously, while also resulting in quality yield and healthier soil.
 
 “I took up afforestation and planted more than 600 teak trees around my farm. Last year, I sold 300 of them for Rs 21 lakh,” he said.
 
 
 
 
  
 Sharanabasappa Patil, 44, from Hal Sultanpur in Kalaburagi, has a similar story of water harvesting and organic farming. In fact, he has conducted over 20 different research projects, including low-cost solar fencing, to keep animals away and low-cost bud-nipping machine for tur dal, which has benefited other farmers too. He has distributed nearly 6,000 units of his low-cost timer, that helps farmers use water more efficiently. Among other innovations are solar pest trap and foxtail millet mixer and cutter.
 
 
 
 
  
 Once a lecturer drawing a monthly salary, Ashok Kumar, 48, from Srinivasapura in Kolar, switched to full-time farming over a decade-and-a-half ago. “When I can feed people and also lead a rich life, why should I work for someone else,” he asks. From Japan’s Fukuoka technique to multiple ways of saving and using water, Kumar today earns Rs 1 crore a year on an average and is the owner of 100 acres, most of which are used for horticulture. 
 
 
 
 
  
 As a farmer, Papamma, 61, from D Kurubarahalli in Kolar, not only made a difference to her family but also to her village. Having realised the huge input costs involved in farming, she lead her household and, eventually, her entire village to organic farming. “My husband and son help take the produce to the market. Otherwise, they let me make all the decisions, and that’s how we got into organic farming,” she said.
 
 ‘Examples of better future’
 
 Greeshma Hegde of IIHS, the lead author of the book — Adaptation as innovation lessons from smallholder farmers in rainfed Karnataka — said: “At a time when more and more people are quitting agriculture, farmers like these become examples of a better future that not only helps them lead a good life, but also helps feed the state and the country.”
 
 
