BENGALURU: Political parties are yet to decide on candidates for the assembly election in Karnataka, but poaching of prospective candidates has already begun.

 After successfully using the poaching formula in the recent assembly polls in Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, the BJP has now set its sights on Karnataka. The BJP leadership believes that the Congress and JD(S) here are vulnerable.
 
 “We’ve started the game and we’ll play it along. More than three dozen sitting legislators, including some ministers, are in touch with us and will defect at a moment’s notice. They all know the BJP is on its way to form the next government,” said a senior BJP leader.
 
 The strategy was seen in motion last week, when JD(S) MLAs Manappa Vajjal and S Shivaraj Patil quit their seats to join the BJP. In the coming months, party president Amit Shah’s efforts to this end is expected to pick up speed with a couple of surveys conducted by agencies, sources said.
 
 BJP leaders are reportedly in talks with housing minister and Congress MLAs M   and his son Priya Krishna, who represent Vijayanagar and Govindarajnagar constituencies in Bengaluru. Speculation is rife that senior Congress leaders and ministers in the Siddaramaiah government — R V Deshpande, K R Ramesh Kumar and   — have been approached by the BJP leadership, though they have been denying it.
 
 Six-time Congress MLA Malikayya  , who represents Afzalpur constituency, and five-time Congress MLA A B Malaka Raddi, who represents Yadgir constituency, are said to be certain to join the BJP.
 
 Meanwhile, the Congress is believed to be in touch with disgruntled BJP leaders of Ballari – former minister and   (Vijayanagar) legislator B S Anand Singh and Kudligi MLA B Nagendra. The duo had recently skipped the BJP’s Parivarthana rally, throwing hints at their intent. However, BJP leaders have already stepped in to douse the fire.
 
 Former minister Murugesh Nirani, a close associate of BJP’s chief ministerial candidate B S Yeddyurappa, too has been approached by the Congress since he has not been in active politics for a while, sources said.
 
 The JD(S) has been forced to put on hold its decision to release the first list of candidates, fearing that they may be poached in the run-up to the polls; it is also keeping its doors open to disgruntled winnable candidates from rival parties.
 
 
