 brushes aside the disappointment of missing a bronze medal at the ISF World School   Championship by a whisker. Instead, she looks back to a fighting performance and a wealth of experience in the 16-nation event in Pune recently.
 
  Goa’s No. 1 ranked shuttler did her part while partnering Chimran Kalita to level terms for India in the play-off against France. However, her teammates then lost their way in the singles and Anjana was left to salvage some pride with victory over Marig Brouxel.
  
  Goa’s No. 1 player in the U-19 and women’s categories was in the thick of action for India ‘A’ who won matches against Brazil and UAE but lost to Chinese Taipei in the group stage. The 17-year-old   resident, who won four matches and lost three, reflected on the campaign: “It was quite a learning experience. I played singles as well as doubles. We were very close, yet it escaped from our hands but I take heart from the fact that I took part in an international tournament.”
  
  Anjana’s talent earned her a call to the Prakash Padukone Academy in Bengaluru for a summer camp last year and she took every opportunity to hone her skills.
  
  “I stayed there for three months and played mostly against boys to get better at my skills,” revealed Anjana who has been inspired by Anura Prabhudesai, another Goan girl making waves at the national level.
  
  “Anura has given us a lot of hope. When it comes to badminton, Goa wasn’t heard of. Now, we have someone whom we can look up to,” she said.
  
  The Class XII commerce student of Deepvihar HSS, Vasco, who cleared her SSC examinations with a distinction, even expressed willingness to drop a year of studies to pursue her dreams.
  
  But, she knows, it won’t be easy. Her’s is a middle-class family coping with the odds. Anjana’s father Kaushlendra Kumar works at the Commissionarate of Customs, her mother Babita Kumari a homemaker and she has a 19-year-old brother who has to eke out a future.
  
  Kaushlendra knows the challenges to ensure his daughter keeps up her progress are huge as expenses eat out of his income. “It would have been nice if we receive sponsorship from corporate and business houses. Anjana’s participation in various tournaments and coaching, diet, boarding and lodging expenses are tough to cope with,” he explained.
  
  Anjana, who had interests across sports, was inspired by Indian icon Saina Nehwal to take to badminton. “I watch all her matches and try to learn as much as possible from her,” she said.
  
  The multi-talented teenager matches her verve with the racquet on court with her penchant with the brush on the easel. She won the Powergrid annual drawing competition in 2011 despite never attending classes.
  
  Her pen sketch as a shuttler, however, has done much to bring cheer to the Goa’s badminton fraternity.
