PATNA: The   on Thursday ordered the Centre and the state government to chalk out a joint plan for bearing expenses so that   in   get equal pay for equal work as per the Patna high court’s judgement. The matter will come up for hearing again on March 27. 

 The high court on October 31 last year had ruled that contractual teachers were eligible to get equal pay for equal work. The high court had also declared the state’s Niyojit Shikshak Niyukti Niyamawali 2006 unconstitutional under Article 14 of the Constitution. The contractual teachers were appointed on fixed salary under the 2006 rules.
 
 State government’s standing council Gopal Singh told TOI over the phone that the Supreme Court ordered both the Centre and the state government to submit a plan on how to implement the high court’s judgement, which would benefit over four lakh contractual teachers in Bihar.
 
 Hearing the plea to stay the Patna high court order, the full bench of Justices A K Goel, Rohinton Fali Nariman and Navin Sinha pulled up the state government saying if peons in Bihar schools would draw salary more than the contractual teachers even after 20% increment to them, better shut the schools. A three-member committee formed under state chief secretary Anjani Kumar Singh on the Supreme Court’s order on January 29 this year recommended 20% increment in the salary of contractual teachers only if they cleared a special exam. Senior advocate   submitted the committee’s report before the court on Thursday. 
 
 Rohatgi also submitted before the court that arrears and enhanced salary to contractual teachers, as per the HC order, would require over Rs52,000 crore, of which 40% has to be borne by state government and the rest by central government.
 
 Bihar Secondary Teachers’ Struggle Committee and  , along with nine other individual petitioners, had moved the high court on the issue. Following the HC order, the state government had moved the apex court requesting stay on the judgement, which was not accepted.
 
 Abhishek Manu Singhvi, Ranjeet Kumar, SC Vaidyanathan, Subramanium Prasad, Abhay Kumar, Amrendra Sharan were among the advocates who represented the contractual teachers in the Supreme Court.
 
 
