CHENNAI: The state government may have taken great strides towards digitisation, but with one signature, it pulled back three districts by two decades.

 
 A directive by the additional chief secretary on Wednesday cited provocative messages being spread on social media with ‘half truth’ as the reason to suspend internet services for five days in restive   and neighbouring   and Kanyakumari districts. The expected outcome of this move is yet to reflect on the simmering streets, but it has left households fuming.
 
 Retired PWD engineer Muthuswamy Kumar’s nerves were on edge as he frantically tried to book a connecting flight for his wife from Madurai to Chennai. “She had a flight to Hong Kong from Chennai at 1.30am on Thursday,” said Kumar, who had dropped off his wife at Tuticorin airport on Wednesday. The flight developed a technical snag and was forced to land in Madurai instead of Chennai at 4.15pm. “The next flight was too late. I couldn’t book online because our internet access was cut,” said Kumar, a native of Kanyakumari. He finally called a friend in Chennai to book the ticket.
 
 The government’s push for cashless economy left many feeling short-changed when their access to internet was restricted. Card swiping machines were rendered dysfunctional. Online money transactions failed. “I had to send money immediately to my sister in Chennai,” said 62-year-old K  , a retired schoolteacher in Tirunelveli. Severely arthritic, Sivakami’s children, based in the US, had taught her how to use netbanking to avoid long queues in banks. “I had to give my debit card to a neighbour to withdraw the money and to deposit it in my sister’s account,” she said.
 
 Work, too, was affected as people struggled to access their official mails. A Nedunchezhiyan, a 27-year-old software engineer from Chennai, was allowed to visit his family in Tuticorin on the condition that he worked from home. “Since last night I haven’t been able to receive or send mails. I had an important skype call to make today, but I couldn’t. I had to tell an overseas client that my government has banned internet,” said an exasperated Nedunchezhiyan, who arrived in Tuticorin on Wednesday. “I’ve never seen my home burn this way,” said Nedunchezhiyan, who had passed by streets where the clashes happened between anti-Sterlite protesters and the police. “What I saw weren’t half-truths. They were evidence of public anger the state wants to suppress and hide,” he said. His sister  , however, reacted differently to the restriction. “It feels different,” said the 19-year-old. “We are finally looking up from our touchscreens to our parents’ faces when we talk,” said Tamizhselvi, a student of St Mary’s college in Tuticorin.
 
 The regressive move also comes at a time when students are busy researching and applying online to courses and universities of their choice. “Our students are suffering because our so-called democratic government is incapable of checking misinformation on a case-bycase basis. Instead they seem to have put a blanket ban in place,” said  , a retired professor from M S University, Tirunelveli. “They are curbing people’s fundamental right of freedom and expression. This is like a military regime,” he said.
 
 
 
