NEW DELHI: In a section on ‘learnings from Outcome Budget’, deputy chief minister Manish   said the   process had “highlighted the need to capture reliable data on outcomes of service delivery” and helped the government to identify the schemes that are not delivering and need re-designing. 

 While reviewing the school health scheme, Sisodia said, it was found that the malnutrition rates among government school students were close to 35%. “This is just not acceptable and after discussions with health department officials, we found that the staffing under the   is adequate only to cover one school for health checkups only once every three years,” Sisodia said. 
 
 The government then decided to set up around 350 dedicated school-level clinics that will make annual health checkups of all students possible and ensure regular and reliable medical assistance for needy students, he added.
 
 As per  , 2.75 lakh school children were screened for general health and nutritional status between April and December last year. The results showed nearly 33% boys and 30% girls in classes I to VIII were underweight. In classes IX to XII, 31% boys and 24% girls were found to be underweight.
 
 Referring to the problem of wastage and leakage of water in the pipeline network, the deputy CM said the review revealed that no reliable data was available on water leakage at the colony, district and ward levels. “What kind of area-specific actions could we take and how could we manage the limited water that is available with us without such information?” Sisodia said, adding that this led to the idea of installing flow meters and carrying out water audits. 
 
 Outcome Budget is also helping the government redefine the boundaries of departments and their responsibilities. “During the first quarterly Outcome Budget review of the environment department, it was found that in the first three months, DPCC had directed closure of 56 polluting industrial units,” he said. 
 
 However, it was found that DPCC didn’t know how many of these units were actually shut down as the revenue department, through the district magistrates, was to implement the orders. Following this, DPCC was told that it would be held responsible for the final outcome as well, said Sisodia. 
 
 
