NEW DELHI: The government suffered considerable embarrassment on Wednesday when the first fuel price reduction in a month turned into a “cruel joke” for consumers because of a “technical glitch” by state-run oil companies. After first indicating a 60-paise reduction, they hastily clarified within a few hours that the cut in petrol and diesel rates actually amounted to 1 paisa per litre. 

 
 The opposition was quick to put the government on the mat over the token reduction, coming after a month of continuously rising pump prices – except for a 19-day period around the   election when the state-run retailers did not revise rates on an informal nudge from the Centre. Congress president   tweeted, “Dear PM, You’ve cut the price of petrol and diesel today by 1 paisa. ONE paisa!?? If this is your idea of a prank, it’s childish and in poor taste. P.S. A ONE paisa cut is not a suitable response to the ‘Fuel Challenge’ I threw you last week”.
 
 Pump rates are at record levels after the petrol price rose by Rs 3.80 per litre and diesel by Rs 3.38 in the fortnight since May 14, a day after the Karnataka elections got over. Expectations of a reduction in pump prices have been building up since last week after top government and   functionaries hinted at relief measures. 
 
 
  
 
 These hopes were bolstered when global crude prices fell by nearly 2% and the rupee ended the week by regaining substantial strength against the greenback. But the size of the reduction, when it finally came, left consumers aghast and put the government in the eye of a social media storm. It all began with public sector IndianOil Corporation publishing a rate chart for Wednesday that showed a reduction of 60 paise alitre, effective 6 am. 
 
 But within hours it revised the rate to show a reduction of 1 paisa. In a statement issued soon thereafter, IndianOil apologised and blamed “technical glitch” for the faux pas. Company insiders said it was human error. “Prices are worked out by the pricing division with the help of special software with a maze of numbers and values fed into the system. The reduction was indeed supposed to be 1 paisa but due to a clerical error the price prevalent on May 25 was communicated as today’s (Wednesday’s) price,” one executive said. 
 
 Oil minister   told reporters that the oil companies made a mistake and would take corrective measures to avoid similar incidents in future. Congress leader and Punjab chief minister   rejected “clerical error” reasoning and described the reduction as a “cruel joke on people”. 
 
  chief minister and Telugu Desam Party boss Chandrababu Naidu said, “Though the prices of oil in the international market have come down there is no reduction in petrol and diesel prices in the country. The government earned Rs 5.5 lakh crore from it (fuel taxes) but there is no welfare to the people”. Trinamool Congress launched an agitation.
 
