CHANDIGARH: Panjab University (PU) is going to rope in a private company to attract more foreign students to the institution. The same will be formalized through an agreement in which   will have to pay 10% of the tuition fee to the consultant against each students that takes admission through the company. 

 
  
 
 Ahead of the admission season, the matter will be tabled in the syndicate meeting on April 29.
 
 A meeting was recently held by the committee constituted by vice-chancellor Prof Arun Kumar Grover to consider a proposal submitted by the private player. According to the proposal, the university will not bear any financial liability for such admissions apart from the commission to be paid to the company. Before the admissions, PU will sign an MoU with the company.
 
 The proposal recommends that in order to recover the amount to be paid to the company, the tuition fee for NRI students should be hiked marginally. The proposal also suggested that since the university does not have a separate marketing team for promotion, a business model of any private university may be studied in order to gain an insight into the system.
 
 According to the   (NRI) guidelines for the 2017-18 session, persons of Indian origin who are citizens of countries other than India and hold the passport of the country concerned can get admission under the NRI quota. Candidates who are the children/wards/spouses of non-resident Indians, i.e., those who are settled overseas for purposes of employment, etc. can get admission. The grand-sons/daughters and spouses of foreign nationals can also get admission under the NRI quota.
 
 It was in January 2017 when PU had changed the guidelines for the NRI quota admissions. According to these guidelines, children of persons of Indian origin, (who may/may not be citizens of countries other than India) or of overseas citizens of India, will get admission under the NRI quota, provided they have resided in a country other than India for a minimum period of three years immediately preceding the year of admission in the university. However, after the syndicate’s approval, the norms were again changed to the previous ones. 
 
 
