Chandigarh:   (PU) is going to hold an emergency board of finance (BoF) meeting on February 13 to discuss the issue of financial assistance to the varsity by the Punjab government. Strongly against the proposal of PU giving affiliation to Haryana colleges to get a financial assistance in return, the   has offered that it is open to increasing the grant-in-aid for the institute, through a mutually consultative process.

 PU, in an affidavit filed in the Punjab and Haryana high court on February 7, 2018, has stated the deficit of Rs 17.94 crore should be met by the Punjab government.
 
 According to the affidavit filed, the university has a total uncovered deficit of Rs 46.31 crore and the institute has managed to cover Rs 28 crore by enhancing its internal income.
 
 However, the remaining deficit should be met by the Punjab government since the MHRD in its communication sent to the university on June 17, 2017, had directed that the uncovered deficit should be met by Punjab government and university’s internal income.
 
 Sources said that finance development officer, PU, Vikram Nayyar, met the director of treasury, Punjab government, Abhinav Trikha (IAS), on January 23, 2018, to provide details of the funds required by the university from the state government. Moreover, sources said that the liability on account of implementation of the seventh pay commission has once again been submitted to   on February 6, 2018. The state government has said it is open to increasing the grant-in-aid for the university, through a mutually consultative process, which would be discussed in the BoF meeting scheduled on February 13, said sources.
 
 On February 7, the Punjab government had outright rejected the offer of the restoration of Haryana’s share in PU. The state government on February 7 filed an affidavit in the Punjab and Haryana high court stating that the Punjab government was against the proposal of the Haryana government to provide a share to the PU if the university affiliates the colleges under the jurisdiction of Haryana government.
 
 “The government of Haryana cannot take advantage of the ongoing proceedings in the Punjab and Haryana high court. The transitory financial resources problem and its resolution by the statutory stakeholders do not permit the government of Haryana to turn back the clock,” read the reply filed by the Punjab government.
 
 Meanwhile, eight senate members have also welcomed the Punjab government’s stand on the financial status of the university to enhance the grants for the varsity. 
 
 
