AHMEDABAD: With   Patel touring  , members of his Patidar Anamat Andolan Samiti (PAAS) have found other ways to keep their community activism alive. Some members of  , led by the unit’s Botad convener, Dilip Sabva, have formed a Patidar Suraksha Sena (PSS), with 2,500 youths in all blocks of the state, with the stated intent to “ensure that no girl from the community elopes with or marries a person of another community or religion”.

 These PAAS members said the initiative is in line with the campaign by right-wing groups like the Bajrang Dal, which campaigns against so-called “Love Jihad”. Sabva said their volunteers will investigate if a girl from the community is “being lured” by a boy from another community and will act against the boy to prevent the relationship.
 
 “We will act above the police as we do not need to take our community matters to the police,” said Sabva, adding that the decision was taken at a “chintan shibir” or brainstorming session at Botad on Monday.
 
 About preventing adult women from their caste from marrying a man from another caste, Sabva said, “There are many instances where Romeos or anti-social elements lured our girls and made their life hell. It is our responsibility to protect the interest of the community.”
 
 Sabva said the volunteers will also help boys of their caste if they are harassed by people from other castes or communities.
 
 Asked if Hardik Patel had approved the decision, Sabva said, “At present, Hardik is busy with his tour in Madhya Pradesh so there was no question of asking him anything. We kept running the movement even when Hardik was in jail. We are in PAAS and will continue our movement as PAAS members.”
 
 PAAS sources said Sabva has been leading a break-away faction of PAAS, which is unhappy with Hardik’s style of functioning. “He has now come up with the new Sena. As Patidars are sensitive about their girls, they will surely appreciate this kind of campaign,” said a PAAS leader.
 
 Mission begins to end ‘leader worship’
 
 Ahmedabad: To discourage any kind of ‘leader-worship’, the faction of PAAS led by Dilip Sabva, has decided that they will not set up a stage at any public meetings of PAAS.
 
 “The decision has been taken to avoid leader-worship as we don’t want the agitation to become leader-centric and it should focus on the core issue of reservation. Thousands of rupees are spent on setting up stages and we want austerity in our public meetings,” said Sabva.
 
 This faction of PAAS has decided that they will only raise the issue of reservation before the government, unlike Hardik, who would use all fora to up the ante against the BJP-led government.
 
 
