COIMBATORE: Fishermen from Sulur were in for a shock on Saturday when they went to   to find out the cause of stench in the area - what welcomed them was the sight of several hundreds of dead fish floating in the water body.

 They said while this was a regular happening, what took them aback was the sheer number of dead fish found in the lake on Saturday. The fishermen suspect the cause to be inflow of sewage water into the lake, which depends on   for water.
 
 “Our fishermen usually store rainwater in the lake and release fishlings of Katla, Rohu, Mrigal and   varieties to rear them in the lake. When it rains, the rainwater would fill the lake or else it gets filled by sewage-mixed water from the Noyyal,” said S A  , president, Sulur Fishermen Cooperative Society.
 
 Pointing out that farmers in the region had been drawing water from the lake by opening the sluices without their knowledge, he further said, “This has forced us to depend on the water from   to fill the lake. Since the river water is mixed with sewage, fish have been dying regularly,” he said.
 
 According to Arumugam, they released the last batch of fish in the lake six months ago. “We were waiting to harvest the fish this month, but they have almost been wiped out,” he further said. 
 
 However, S R Thangavel, president of  , a farmer’s association in the area, said they had been drawing water from the lake for the past three years with the due permission from the Public Works Department officials.
 
 “We had stopped drawing water from the lake for the past one month. So, there must be some other reason for the incident. The recent rain would have diluted the sewage in the lake,” he added.
 
 When contacted, fisheries department officials said while water bodies were mainly meant for irrigation, the fishermen’s cooperative has been given permission to harvest fish from it. An official said if members of the fishermen’s cooperative bring the issue to their notice, they would intervene and resolve it.
 
 
