CHANDIGARH: What could have been a routine story for this former journalist, turned out to be an experience that seared her soul.   released her debut book, the Undying Flame – as an act of closure and tribute to a man who saw his son edging towards death for 10 years. It was one of those stories that transformed Anshu into a cynic and a woman of faith.

 Releasing her book at   on Wednesday, she said, “This was a man’s fight for his son and against the system. Som Prakash’s son Gulshan had renal failure and was given HIV infected blood. He knew how it would end. He raged against those who casually doomed his son to death and got away with it,” she recalled. 
 
 As the father of the dying boy was caught in a maze of red tape and stony hearts, Anshu felt his pain, heightened by the fact that she could not restore his son back to life and health. Mother of two herself, she found there was only one thing she could do. “I would listen to him whenever he wanted to talk. Be it 2am or 6am. Often, I would give him all the money I had in my purse, knowing how inadequate that was. Now, I have penned his story because there were things I wanted the world to know. This story deserved to be told. But I wish I could do more,” she said. 
 
 Through the book, she wanted   to know it was not in vain. “He was intensely lonely, very scared and devastated. Since he could not get good treatment for his son in his native place Karnal, he came to  . But even back then, it was difficult to get the doctors’ attention in PGI. So Ludhiana was his best bet. Relatives helped him initially but later turned away. He sold all his land and took loans which he wondered how to pay back,” she recalled. 
 
 Driven by the need to make his struggle public, Anshu finished the book in three months, writing late into the night and greeting the dawn pounding away on her keyboard. Except for the father and son, Anshu has used fictitious names for the rest of the characters. “I do not have an organiaation supporting me in this story. So I had to play safe,” she smiled. 
 
