AGRA: Two person including a teenaged Delhi University student were killed and two others were injured in a road accident on Yamuna Expressway in the intervening night of Friday and Saturday, police said.

 The accident occurred under Yamunapar police jurisdiction in Mathura district at around 1.30am. 
 
 The victims hailed from Kundan Nagar and Geeta Nagar in East Delhi and were heading to Agra to visit Taj Mahal.
 
 Amit Singh, owner of a hardware store and Ruchika Rathi (18), an under-graduate student of DU, were killed on the spot while girl’s mother Meena Rathi and her sister Yatika (22) were admitted to a government hospital in Mathura.
 
 Dinesh Singh, the elder brother of deceased man said; “Amit was taking Yatika and her younger sister and mother to Agra to spend weekend and visit Taj Mahal. The accident occurred, when a bus ahead of their car, applied sudden brakes and Amit failed to control his car and rammed into rear of the bus.” 
 
 Speaking to TOI, Yamunapar station officer SP Singh said: “The mangled bonnet of the sedan suggests that their car rammed into another vehicle but we couldn’t trace the other vehicle, as it fled away after the accident.”
 
 Dr Aman Kumar, of Mathura district hospital said, “Two victims were brought dead, while others were injured but are in stable condition.”
 
 Rajesh Kumar Rathi, the father of Ruchika said, “She was studying in DU and was excited to visit Taj Mahal. Yatika and my wife Meena are out of danger.”
 
 After the post-mortem, the victims body were handed over to their relatives.
 
 Earlier on March 28, a businessman of Swatantra Nagar in Narela, Delhi was killed and his four friends were injured, when their multi-utility vehicle overturned on Yamuna expressway in Tappal area of Aligarh district.
 
 According to RTI data, 626 people lost their lives in 4,848 road accidents on the 196-kilometre-long Yamuna Expressway ever since it was thrown open to public in August 2012. Between 2012 to 2017, over 2.3 crore vehicles were detected breaking the speed limit and only 17,883 were issued challans by traffic police in Agra, Aligarh, Mathura and Gautam Budh Nagar.
 
