CHENNAI:   is set to sign an MoU with   ( ) to procure 10 lakh smart meters. These smart meters will be installed on all premises that consume more than 200 units of power per month in a phased manner from June 1. At present, digital meters have been installed at nearly 80% of consumer premises and these will be replaced by smart meters.

 A smart, automated metering system reduces meter-reading, data-entry errors and costs by removing the need for manual meter reading. The smart meter can enable utilities to reduce their aggregate transmission and commercial (AT&C) losses and billing inefficiencies. These meters, connected through a web-based monitoring system, will help reduce commercial losses of utilities, enhance revenues, and serve as a crucial tool in power sector reforms. 
 
 “The smart meter will be connected to a server and will work just like a mobile phone operator. The new meters will cost Rs 3,000 for Tangedco, but for a consumer it will be installed without any cost. Tangedco will settle the total cost of smart meters procured through payments released monthly, over next five years,” said a senior Tangedco official.
 
  employees to each and every premises of consumers for bi-monthly “meter reading” will be discontinued once smart meters are installed. “Since it is connected to the server, information about power consumption, tariff due, last date, penalty for default etc will be sent to the consumers’ mobile numbers,” said the official. Employees involved in such meter reading work will be redeployed in other departments of the discom. 
 
 Under the smart meters, the consumers will have a choice to choose between pre-paid and post-paid meters. “Pre-paid meters work the same way as a pre-paid SIM card. Once the balance gets over, power will be disconnected. Even before the balance gets over, there will be a warning, reminding the consumer to top-up. Pre-paid meters will be installed in places where consumers frequently default in payment of bi-monthly bill,” said the official.
 
 EESL, on its investment, shall earn a nominal internal rate of return ( ) through a mutually agreed automated payback structure during the concession period, along with payment security mechanism from state governments and utilities. 
 
 eom
 
 
