PATNA: At least six persons died and two others were injured after   and thunderstorms wreaked havoc in several districts of the state late on Sunday night.

 According to a statement released by the state disaster management department on Monday, two persons – Ram Pati Devi (55) of Saran and Dharendra Chaupal (30) of Darbhanga – died after lightning struck them. Kanti Devi (50) of Saran and Krishna Gaud (40) of   lost their lives after trees fell on them. Akhilesh Rai (35) and Aradhana Kumari of Khagaria died after walls of their houses collapsed due to high speed winds. 
 
 Governor Satya Pal Mallik and CM Nitish Kumar have expressed grief over loss of lives and properties due to the natural disaster. The two have wished speedy recovery for the injured. The CM has also ordered expeditious payment of ex gratia to the next of the kin of the deceased.
 
 Reports of damages to property, agriculture farms and roads have poured in from across the state, including Patna,  , Muzaffarpur, Khagaria, Kishanganj and East Champaran districts. Met officials said winds blew at the speed of 50-70kmph at different places in the state during the   on Sunday night.
 
 Vehicles remained stuck on Mahatma Gandhi Setu and its approach roads for around eight hours after the safety barricades put up on the bridge fell flat due to the high speed winds.
 
 Power supply was also severely affected in different districts as electric poles were uprooted. Around 12 electric poles between Ramnagar-Bagaha and Chautarawa were uprooted, resulting in snapping of power supply to Bagaha town and the neighbouring rural areas for several hours.
 
 Standing crops as well as mango trees and litchi plants were severely damaged. The banana trees in Vaishali district were also damaged by the thunderstorm.
 
 Weathermen at Patna Meteorological Centre on Monday issued forecast for scattered rainfall across the state on Tuesday and Wednesday and isolated showers over the next three days. An alert has also been sounded for thunderstorm accompanied with gusty winds in all 38 districts of the state on Tuesday.
 
 “The weather development that led to such widespread thunderstorm and squalls in the state on Sunday night has moved away from the state. As of now, we expect residual showers and gusty winds blowing at a speed of 40-50kmph during the next 24 hours,” Sandeep Kumar, a meteorologist at Patna Meteorological Centre, said.
 
 
