KANYAKUMARI: A group from Vallavilai coastal village set sail to the deep seas on Friday evening, in one last attempt to search for around 70 fishermen who went missing in the sea ahead of Cyclone Ockhi. The 34-member group consisted of kin and friends of the missing fishermen, who decided to launch a search operation by themselves after repeated requests to authorities to launch a second round of search operations went unheeded.

 The team set sail from the  . “It included four people who were part of the previous 11-day search (started on December 12),” said  , a resident. The team is slated to return to Kochi on January 5.
 
 Fishermen mostly return home ahead of Christmas. But when the missing fishermen didn’t return till Christmas, St Mary’s Church at Vallavilai and those in nearby coastal villages conducted a Holy Mass to pray for the souls of the more than 150 of them who are dead or feared dead. Meanwhile, fixing December 31 as deadline, activists, churches and families of the missing fishermen had also demanded death certificate and death benefits for affected families.
 
 The twist came when a five-member committee of the home ministry came to Vallavilai on Thursday to issue death certificates for the missing fishermen. The team had to reconsider its decision of issuing death certificates after  , the sister of John Bright, one of the missing fishermen told officials that the missing fishermen were alive and waiting for help. Although her reaction agitated fellow villagers, it inspired family and friends of John Bright to go in search of their missing brethren. Dickson said that they consulted with the church to get permission from the government to conduct a search for the second time. As there was some hesitation, the families and friends decided to carry out the search on their own.
 
 They pooled in close to ?12 lakh for the search operation. “Last time, eight boats from the village went in search of missing boats on December 12. They returned with 22 men. It gave us hope for the second search,” said   who went for the first search.
 
