NEW DELHI: The notification which students have been waiting for the last few days is finally released. Indian Railways has announced 9739 vacancies for the post of RPF constable/ RSPF Sub Inspector ( SI). This year, 50 per cent of the vacancies have been reserved for the female candidates. 
  
  
  
   









 As per the official notification uploaded on the website of Indian Railways, indianrailways.gov.in, the candidates can start applying for this post from 1st June 2018 and they can do it before 30th June 2018. This notification was first released on the Employment news website. The news regarding this is even tweeted by railway minister Piyush Goyal. The PDF file of the official notification can be downloaded here for complete details. Please check the page number 8- 13 as well as page number 18 - 23. Let us also evaluate some of the most important information like Important dates, Eligibility Criteria, Exam Pattern , Salary and others. As we have mentioned the total number of vacancies are around 9739 and out of them 50% are reserved for women. The upper age limit according to the category wise is as follows: The people who clear the computer based written examination will be selected for this round. According to the notification, the condition to clear this round is as follows. Constable: After the final admit the pay scale will be in the range of Rs.21,700 along with other allowances ( As per the Level 3 of the 7th Central Pay Commission ) Sub Inspector: The initial pay for a sub inspector will be Rs.35,400 along with other allowances ( As per level 6 of the 7th Central Pay Commission )  The students can fill the application form only through online mode. As mentioned after the 1 st June 2018, the direct link to apply for the post of Sub Inspector / Constable becomes active. We wanted to help the students with the preparation by giving them the link to the free mock test for RPF Constable / SI Mock test . Register using the form below to get free full length mock test for the examination 
  
  
  
   









