NEW DELHI: A Delhi   on Wednesday   the   of the   and director of a   concurring with an earlier order that   a child enter the classroom or have lunch with friends amounts to “will neglect” and causes “mental suffering”.

 Additional Sessions Judge Vikas Dhull upheld the trial court judgment of July 2017 that had held the duo guilty under Section 23 (cruelty to juvenile or child) of Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection) Act, 2000, besides directing them to pay compensation of Rs 2.5 lakh each.
 
 The lawyers associated with the case, Chandra Suman and Zishaan Iskandari, told TOI that the sessions court, however, modified the two-month sentence and directed the appellants to be released on probation for six months.
 
 “The appellants are now required to appear before the probation officer, Dwarka district, every month for the next six months. Based on the probation officer’s report and upon information of commission of similar or any other offence by them, the trial court shall be at liberty to impose the sentence,” the lawyers said.
 
 In his complaint, the student’s father, Dr N Raghuram, had alleged that his daughter was “ill-treated” and confined by the management throughout school hours on April 24, 2012, to pressure her guardians to withdraw her. He had added that the school’s conduct was the result of queries raised by him about uniforms and accessories during the orientation programme.
 
 The school authorities, on the other hand, said that the student was given a transfer certificate (TC) on April 23, 2012 on the request of her parents. However, instead of collecting the TC they sent their daughter to school the next day. The child was apparently “not feeling comfortable” after coming to school and since she was an asthma patient she was sent to the infirmary.
 
 The girl, who is 12 years old now, has moved on, but was disheartened as she was unable to say goodbye to her friends, the parent said.
 
 Initially, Raghuram had filed a complaint with Child Welfare Committee. Later, police filed a chargesheet under Section 23 of JJ Act.
 
