MUMBAI:  , former secretary of  , on Thursday admitted before the court holding the   murder trial, that she had created an email address for Sheena in June-July 2012. “She (Indrani) was my boss. I did whatever her instructions were,’’ she said. However, she denied speaking, allegedly at Indrani’s instance, with   over phone, pretending to be Sheena. “I have never seen Sheena, but knew of her as Indrani’s sister till Indrani’s arrest,” she said.

 Indrani is the prime accused in the Sheena murder case along with her ex-husband Sanjeev Khanna and present husband   Mukerjea as co-accused. The prosecution case is that Indrani, Sheena’s biological mother, though she had portrayed herself as Sheena’s sister, had murdered her along with her Khanna and her former driver-turned-approver Shyamwar Rai on April24, 2012. Peter has been mentioned as a conspirator. 
 
 Peter’s lawyer Shrikant Shivade suggested that Sharma was toeing the prosecution line and lying about not having spoken to Peter, as Sheena and saying ‘Jeeju, Hi, How are you’’ on April 30, 2012, as the CBI told her that she would be made an accused too and arrested in the case. She admitted that she practised Sheena’s signature and created an email address in Sheena’s name on Indrani’s instruction, after Sheena’s murder.
 
 Indrani had told her that Sheena was in the US and asked her to sign a resignation letter on her behalf and send it to Sheena’s office, she had stated earlier in court when examined by CBI last month. “I didn’t find her instructions wrong at the time.”
 
 On Shivade’s questioning her, Sharma, 38, now a housewife, said, “It was not part of my duty to create false email, but I did it because at the time I was asked to.’’ Shivade was trying to establish that Sharma, a key prosecution witness, would do anything her employer Indrani would tell her without questioning its legality or correctness. The persistent questions from Shivade, caused her to start crying at one point. “He is hurting my emotions,’’ she told the Judge pointing to Shivade. When she was asked if it was “preplanned’’ to speak with Peter, pretending to be Sheena, Sharma denied. 
 
 She had worked earlier for Indrani from 2004 to 2006 and was called back again in 2011 to join INX Services, Indrani’s proprietary concern where Rai also worked and for whom, Indrani had asked Sharma to open up a skype account on which she would talk with him from abroad in the days just before Sheena’s alleged murder. 
 
 The next witness of the prosecution now will be brought on June 4. 
 
 
