THRISSUR: The   who converted to Islam from Christianity in 2000 is caught in a controversy with the   objecting to his family decision to donate it to  . The committee wants to conduct a   as per the Islamic tenets.

 Elanjikkal C Simon of Kara Edavilangu near Kodungallur had died on January 27. He was 86. Simon, who retired as head master of Paingod government UP school, is survived by wife, two sons and two daughters. He had written some books on Bible and Islam too.
 
 Kara Kathiyalm Mahallu Jama-Ath committee member Ahmed Salih said Simon had adopted the name Muhammed when he went for Haj in 2003. “He, however, continued to use his original name… He had submitted a letter to us then saying his funeral must be conducted as per Islamic customs. Three of his children had also signed in it,” he said.
 
 Salih said they had filed petitions in the high court besides giving petitions to the district administration, police and medical college principal. “It is not against his family members or any community. We want to perform his funeral as per his religious belief,” he said.
 
 Family chose to donate body as per Simon’s wish
 
 His family members, however, said they chose to donate the body as per his last wishes. They claimed to have another letter from Simon saying so but some masjid committee members contended that it need not be genuine as Simon was ailing for some time.
 
 Simon’s son E S Johnson said they followed his father’s wishes. “He said some of his decisions had troubled the family earlier but did not want it to be so after his death. He had specifically said his body must be donated to the medical college hospital. It is a closed chapter as far as we are concerned,” he said.
 
 Some Muslims in the area, however, said Simon’s family members had progressive leanings and their relationship with them was cordial even after his conversion.
 
 “There is no reason to suspect the family’s version and if they have chosen to donate the body, it must be accepted,” Jamaat-e-Islami activist Shakeer said.
 
 Medical college acting principal Dr M A Andrews admitted receiving a request from the mahallu committee. “The body is being kept in the mortuary without embalming or other procedures. It can be handed over only to immediate relatives as per the anatomy act,” he said.
 
 
