Trichy: New Year celebration turned into tragic after three people died thanks mainly to dangerous two-wheeler riding in rural Trichy and Karur late on Sunday.

 The statistics available with the EMRI '108' ambulance service, Trichy, revealed that city witnessed a total of 16 road   involving two-wheelers, with many suffering serious injuries during the on-road celebration.
 
 The accidents took place in Cantonment, Palakkarai, Thiruverumbur, Srirangam and toll gate areas. A total of seven ambulances rescued the victims and brought to them to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy.
 
 The deceased were identified as Durairaj, from Vellalapatti near Sanapiratti in Karur, R Mahendran, 19, a plus-two student from Aadhi Vinayagar Kovil street of Karur, and Alam Jone, 17, Thethur.
 
 Durairaj, his wife Mary, 47, and relative Reshma, 17 were on their way to attend New Year prayers in a church in Trichy when Mahendran speeding on his bike crashed into them.
 
 Mahendran was riding the bike with his friend Balaji, 17 in the pillion for New Year celebrations. Both Durairaj and Mahendran died at the scene. The injured were admitted to private hospitals in Karur and Coimbatore.
 
 The other accident, near Thuvarankurichi in Trichy in the night on Sunday, saw Jone, 17, and Vijay, 22, both speeding on their bike, rammed a TNSTC bus. They were on the way to Thuvarankurichi to buy some things for New Year celebrations.
 
 Though both were taken to hospital with serious injuries, Jone was pronounced dead at the government hospital in Thuvarankurichi. Vijay is undergoing treatment in Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH).
 
 "Most of the accidents occurred after 10 pm yesterday. The youths riding the high-end bikes met with the accidents in several occasions. They sustained major to minor injuries. The treatment is on here,” said an official in GVK-EMRI, Trichy.
 
 It was learnt that Trichy city police, who were supposed to control the dangerous revelry, went soft on them. Many said police let them go on with the celebration, advising them to wear helmet, avoid speedy ride and drunken driving during the New Year bash. Sources also said that the police had avoided registering cases for drunken driving last night.
 
 
