On the night of January 31, we will witness a rarest of rare celestial phenomenon in the sky, claimed to occur after 150 years! And it is going to be a triple treat as the sky will have a  , a   and a total lunar eclipse, all at the same time. The sky watchers in the State are all geared up to witness the delightful experience, as it is said to be best visible here. 

 “It is going to be a wonderful phenomenon for Keralites as we will be able to witness it all together, very clearly, especially in the coastal regions. Let’s not miss it,” says Jayant Ganguli, technical officer, Regional Science Centre and Planetarium, Kozhikode. He explains the phenomenon better. 
 
 “On January 31, the Moon is going to be bigger, brighter and more beautiful. As the Moon revolves around the earth in an oval orbit, there will be a time when it comes closer to the Earth and becomes a full Moon. It is also a lunar eclipse as the sun, Earth and Moon are aligned to form a straight line. Also, the Moon will turn reddish so we call it the red Moon or  . The colour may vary from brown to red depending on the atmospheric humidity and pollution.” 
 
 The partial shadow on the Moon would be seen at 4.21 pm, while the complete lunar eclipse would be visible at 6.21 pm. “It will be brown or red in colour. The Moon will emerge from the complete lunar eclipse at 7.37 pm, and will turn into a partial one by 8.41 pm. Then the Moon will be fully visible once again,” he says, adding that Moon watching programmes have been organised across the state. “At the Regional Science Centre and Planetarium, Kozhikode, we will have a mass observation programme. It will be clearly visible to the naked eye, but we will also allow sky watchers to use our telescopes,” he adds. The Priyadarshini Planetarium in the   (KSSTM), Thiruvananthapuram, is also making arrangements for people to witness this celestial event.
 
 Meanwhile, according to astrologers, the lunar eclipse will have an impact on the star signs and special pujas should be done. “Indian astrology does not consider blood Moon. However, the lunar eclipse that comes along with it is very special as it will be a total lunar eclipse of 99.8%. January 31 is 17th of Makaram month and it will be good to do special chandrapuja on the day. It is advisable not to have food for four and a half hours post the eclipse,” says astrologer J Sreekumar.
 
 When it comes to Western astrology, one will experience a transformation following the eclipse. “A global change in female energy will occur and feminine power will become stronger. However, one should be very careful as deep inner fears will surface during an eclipse. Suicidal tendencies are possible. But once you conquer the fears, happiness will follow. Try meditation to overcome it,” says Roopesh R, who specialises in spiritual subjects.
 
 
 
 
 A full or new Moon that is close to the Earth (3.56 lakh kilometre).The Moon appears 14% larger and 40% brighter
 
 
 The second full Moon in a month. January 1, 2017 was a full Moon. 
 
 
 Blood Moon or total lunar eclipse occurs when the moon travels through the earth’s umbra, the dark central portion of its shadow. The earth blocks all direct sunlight from falling onto the Moon’s surface. 
 The Moon does not turn completely dark during a total lunar eclipse, and appears reddish, since part of the sunlight still reaches the lunar surface indirectly, via the earth's 
 atmosphere.
 
 
 
 
 : 4.21 pm
 
 : 6.21 - 7.37 pm
 
 : 8.41 pm 
 
 : Post 8.41 pm
 
