KANPUR: Chief minister   stressed on the importance of technology, its impact and its correct use by citing the difference in approach of North Korean leader   and Prime Minister   and the recognition it brings to them.

 Speaking at the opening ceremony of Startup Master Class at IITKanpur on Saturday, CM Yogi said that “technology can both lift a person or make him tumble”.
 
 “Technology in the hands of people like Kim Jong-un (North Korean supreme leader) will bring destruction (through nuclear weapons), but technology in the hands of people like Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lead to country’s growth,” he said. He added that “emergence of technology has opened many doors of opportunity for the people of the country, we just have to use it in a correct way”.
 
 Yogi said the pace of development could be accelerated by the use of technology. “We are lucky that our state has such a good institute like IIT, Kanpur. Now, it is the need of the hour for the institute to come forward and help other technology institutes, universities and colleges in raising their standard. This will help the students of other institutes in generating new ideas which are beneficial for the society,” the CM told a gathering of students and alumni.
 
 On the issue of employment, the chief minister said it was not possible to give government jobs to all but providing equal employment opportunities for all is a must. “For this, we are pushing new startup ideas. Students should not be job-seekers but look forward to adopting entrepreneurship as a career so that they are in a position to provide jobs to many people,” the CM said amid loud cheers.
 
 “Startups can contain migration of people by creating jobs in UP, which is the biggest state with a population of 22 crores. UP has the highest number of youths as well as the highest number of unemployed and migratory force. The startups can help in stopping migration to other states and provide jobs to youths,” the CM added.
 
 Asking people to be patient, Yogi said: “It took 70 years to initiate projects like Standup India,   and  , and it will take some time for the change to set in.”
 
