KOLKATA:   Railway has initiated an inquiry into Tuesday’s series of failures that resulted in suspension of services between   and Central stations after 6.36pm. A coach that got derailed while being reversed at the   station has also been isolated and kept at the   carshed for thorough inspection.

 The Metro’s series of disasters began from 6.10 pm on Tuesday after a youth jumped on the tracks at   station. As part of routine, Metro switched off power to the third line and started rescue operations. While this was on, a decision was taken to run truncated services between   and Central. All was well till 6.36pm when rescue operations were completed at Shyambazar and attempts were made to restore normal services.
 
 “Till then, Up trains from Kavi Subhas were being reversed from Central after moving them to the Down line there through a crossing. After things normalized at Shyambazar, an attempt was made to reset the point at the crossing to allow train services between Kavi Subhas and Dum Dum. Technicians failed to do so. After repeated attempts failed, a decision was taken to run truncated services between the Kavi Subhas and Maidan stations. As an Up train from Kavi Subhas was being reversed through a crossing at Maidan shortly before 7pm, one of the coaches derailed and the tracks got blocked,” a senior Metro official said.
 
  
  
 
 It took over three hours for the stranded coach to be re-railed by a crane brought in from Noapara. Officials are now wondering whether a lack of co-ordination between the signaling and telecommunications department and those associated with operations resulted in the snags.
 
 “It seems that attempts were made by operating staff to shift the rakes from the Up track to the Down one at Central without proper signaling. Later, when attempts were made to restore normalcy, the system collapsed. We are still not sure what happened at Maidan. However, changeover systems need to be operational at all times for operations during emergencies,” another official said.
 
 Metro CPRO   said that general manager   has set up a four-member team of senior officers to probe the incident. “He has also sought the report soon and wants a thorough inspection of the coach that derailed,” she said.
 
 
