KOCHI: "Kurach kurach", said   Islam, a migrant labourer from Assam, when asked if he can speak  . Though he has been in Kerala for the past four years, the smile on his face is a proof of the fact that he feels at home here. 

 On Sunday, Kerala State Literacy Mission Authority (KSLMA) conducted the first exam in Perumbavoor for 500 migrant labourers like Jahirul as part of ' ' literacy programme for migrant labourers that was rolled out on Independence Day last year.
 
 The labourers, who mainly hail from West Bengal, Odisha, Bihar, Jharkhand and Assam, assembled at 10 plywood factories in and around Perumbavoor town to write the exam. Most of the labourers work in the same factories during weekdays. The classes were conducted on Sundays for the past 10 months. 
 
 "The classes have helped me in understanding Malayalam. This has helped in communication at work, in market and bank. Writing and reading is still a bit difficult," said  , a labourer from West Bengal.
 
 The labourers were not afraid of the exam. The fact that most of them have not had any formal education could be a reason for this. After the question papers were distributed, they eagerly sat down to write the answers, even though many couldn't understand a word. "The main problem is that many people who regularly attended the classes have now gone home. Only 20% who are writing the exam today have attended the classes," said Tiny Vijayan, a teacher conducting the weekly classes.
 
 The idea of the mission is not limited to literacy alone. ' ' - the textbook provided to the labourers, contains lessons on everyday life, including hygiene, health, rights of workers and ethics.
 
  "The main objective of the project is to change the way migrant labourers are perceived. More than the words on paper, the mission seeks to establish better relations between migrant communities and local people. Even the condition of their shelters has improved greatly since the classes started last year," said P S Sreekala, director of KSLMA.
 
 The mission has been successful in bringing about a change in attitude of the labourers. "In the beginning, it was difficult to ignite their interest. Most didn't see the benefit in studying Malayalam. Now, they gathered here on their own and that shows their dedication," said Dr V V Mathew, Ernakulam district coordinator, KSLMA. 
 
 Change in etiquette is another impact of the programme. "Earlier people would attend classes in a less civil way. But now they come properly dressed for the classes," said Vijayan. The ones who would pass the exam would be given certificates in July. A second round of exam will be held for those who missed it the first time. 
 
 
