Panaji: With the churning high seas reaching its peak, tar balls have returned to mar the state’s beaches. The oily matter, that leaves stains on the feet and skin, is carried by the waves and deposited on the shores. “Weathering processes eventually create a tar ball from oil spilled into the seas. These tar balls are hard and crusty on the outside and soft and gooey on the inside,” a study by National Institute of Oceanography (NIO) states.  Instances of the sticky substance being deposited on beaches have been reported from most coastal talukas in the last couple of days. The locations include Ashvem and Miramar in North Goa, as well as the coastal stretch of Salcete especially from Colva to Benaulim in South Goa. In Miramar, the tar balls found on the shore were of irregular shapes and sizes, and some were as big as pebbles. “It is that time of the year when locals prefer to take salt water baths to ease body aches and joint pains. Many tourists also come to Goa to enjoy their summer holidays,” a shack owner in Colva said.  The deposits seem to have been formed recently, as there were no visible big blobs. A thin, black layer of contaminants, however, were spread out on the sand, in stark contrast to the silvery beaches. As the season heads into the pre-monsoon period, some expect higher amounts of deposits on the surf zone. Though rogue ships and oil rigs are often blamed for the tar ball menace, other, often overlooked, contributors may be collectively adding a major chunk to the toxic waste. “There are major problems associated with estimating petroleum hydrocarbon inputs from different pathways because of lack of reliable data,” a former NIO scientist said. Meanwhile, the NIO is fine tuning methods to finger print tar balls to determine the source of pollution. Three NIO scientists R Sen Gupta, S Y Singbal and S N De Souza who were studying the status of environment pollution in and around Goa about a decade and half ago had estimated that roughly 40 tonnes of tar balls may have been deposited along the Goa coast.