NAGPUR: Expressing concern over Medical Council of India’s (MCI) recommendations to reduce Indira Gandhi Government Medical College’s ( ) MBBS seats from 150 to 100, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court, on Monday, asked it to reply on its move within two days.

 While reminding the apex body of February 4, 2015, order where it came under a scathing attack for similar recommendation of seats reduction, a division bench comprising justices   and   asked it to clarify on repeating the move, despite clear directives.
 
 The censuring came while hearing a contempt petition (CP No 281/2017) in a writ petition (No 3427/2000) filed by CH Sharma and others, regarding lack of facilities in government medical colleges and hospitals (GMCHs) across Vidarbha. The MCI’s move was brought to the HC’s notice by amicus curiae Anup Gilda, who submitted its communication of February 28 to the union health and family welfare ministry’s secretary.
 
 The MCI’s letter stated that its executive committee considered assessment report of December 19 last year and February 1 and 2 this year, where it found some deficiencies in the IGGMC. “The executive committee decided to recommend to the centre not to approve IGGMC for award of MBBS degree by MUHS, Nasik, against the increased intake from 100 to 150 seats. It was further decided to call upon the concerned college to submit compliance of listed deficiencies within a month. The decision of the executive committee was approved by our oversight committee on February 23,” the letter mentioned.
 
 Gilda also pointed out that CT scan machine in the IGGMC was out of order and needed to be replaced by a new one and even the HC on January 13 had taken a note of it. He demanded for installation of new machine at the earliest in the interest of patients.
 
 Earlier, the amicus also pointed towards February 4, 2015, order where HC had sternly directed the centre not to act upon the MCI’s recommendation of reducing the IGGMC seats. He also informed that the apex body had challenged HC’s order in Supreme Court through Special Leave Petition (SLP) which was dismissed. “When in the same facts and circumstances, the apex court had granted increase of seats from 100 to 150, we find that there was no occasion for the MCI to recommend reduction of seats from 150 to 100. As a matter of fact, the same would amount to disrespecting the orders passed by the top court,” the then division bench of justices Gavai and   ruled.
 
 (With inputs from Abhishek Tiwari)
 
 
