NAGPUR: Schools have been waiting for five years and yet full   payment has not been done?

 Nobody should worry about their money being held back because I can guarantee that the state government will be reimbursing every single penny. Already things are moving very fast in this regard and orders for disbursal have come. Total RTE bills in Nagpur district were around Rs55 crore of which Rs10 crore was given. Now, this week itself, we will be getting another Rs12 crore to knock off more from the pending balance. The rest of the amount will also come soon enough. 
 
 Schools say that fake income documents are submitted to secure RTE admissions, but education department does not follow up.
 
 If schools believe that certain documents submitted by parents are bogus, they can refuse to give admission. We will stand with schools in all genuine cases. The state wants that children from underprivileged sections of society must get free education under RTE. It is not a question of cancelling admission, because it has not happened yet. Last year, we checked almost 300 income certificates with the collector’s office based on queries raised by schools but everything checked out. I urge schools to contact us and raise red flags over forged submissions by parents.
 
 Schools are made to keep RTE seats   year after year, even though there are absolutely no takers for it
 
 This is a policy decision which is in place across the country. At our level we can only implement the law of the land. I am sure that suggestions from all stakeholders have been noted by policymakers. 
 
 There seems to be lot of friction between schools and education department when it comes to RTE. Schools feel they are immediately made out to be the culprits in all cases
 
 This seems to be a misunderstanding and all letters that I send are to the point and address the issue at hand. But, now, we will take extra care to see that our moves are not seen as confrontational. We want smoother coordination with schools in all aspects, not just RTE, and will appreciate feedback so that ultimately the students will benefit. 
 
  is district education officer (primary)
 
 
