BATHINDA:   police has arrested gangster-turned-activist Lakhbir Singh, alias  , in an old case of defacing signboards written in English or Hindi. Lakha was arrested from Moga on Thursday, when he was heading towards Shahkot to raise the issue of contamination of water, especially after the leakage of molasses into the Beas and death of hundreds of fish. 

 Presently, Lakha has become a activist, raising issues ranging like least importance being given to Punjabi language to contamination of water to drugs being supplied for money in jails. On May 21, he was called by Punjab jails minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, where Lakha told him about the going-ons in state jails. He was caught going online in Faridkot jail about burning of paddy stubble a few months ago. 
 
 Lakha, along with Dal Khalsa vice-president Hadeep Singh Mehraj and supporters, was going to Shahkot when a police party from Bathinda stopped him near   intersection of Moga and took him into custody. He was taken to Bathinda from Moga. Before his arrest, Lakha said, “We were going towards Shahkot to question the government, which is responsible for contamination of the canal waters. For the last 40 years, toxins are being thrown into rivers and canals but nobody is making any effort to ensure that clean water flows in these channels. We were going to tell voters in Shahkot to ask the government why they are not getting clean water.”
 
 “The government is shying away from taking strict action against the owners of sugar mill, which released molasses into the river, because it belongs to politically influential people. The waters of Punjab are being spoiled by bigwigs and people like us who want to raise their voice against it are forced to keep silent and our fundamental rights are being snatched,” he added.
 
 Lakha said they had been moving around in Bathinda but nobody arrested them. “It is now when we were going to Shahkot that the police have become active and arrested us from Moga,” he maintained. Moga SP (investigations) Wazir Singh said, “It is not Moga police which has arrested Lakha. Bathinda police has arrested him from our territory.”
 
 Bathinda SSP Naveen Singla said, “Lakha was wanted by police in a case of defacing the signboards written in English or Hindi at the offices of Union and state governments in Bathinda on April 1. We do not know where he was going. We got to know about his being in Moga, so our police party got him there.” 
 
 
