AHMEDABAD: The Red List of Threatened Species of the International Union for Conservation of Nature ( ) has raised the alarm about rampant poaching of great Indian bustards (GIB) in Pakistan, saying this can lead to the extinction of the   from western India.

 
 The Red List’s report for 2017 states, “Current levels of hunting may result in the extinction of even the largest western Indian population in the next 15-20 years.”
 
  The report states that hunting and poaching of GIB is rampant in the country neighbouring   and  .
 
 However, studies revealed that the GIB individuals from Naliya in Kutch cross over into Pakistan. The IUCN Red List noted that “high intensity poaching still continues in Pakistan (which is probably shared with western Rajasthan and   populations), where 49 birds were hunted of 63 that were sighted over a period of four years.”
 
 The IUCN report states, “The current threats are mostly from habitat loss and degradation, caused by widespread agricultural expansion and mechanization of farming, infrastructural development such as irrigation, roads, electricity pylons, wind turbines and constructions; mining and industrialization. With increased availability of water due to government irrigation policies, agriculture has also spread over the vast arid-semiarid grasslands, resulting in loss of habitat.
 
 The IUCN noted that due to ill-defined land distribution policies and ambiguity arising from segregated land ownership between private owners, community and government bodies, encroachment is a major problem in many bustard areas, especially in and around the bustard sanctuaries of Maharashtra, Kutch and Rajasthan.
 
 IUCN has also noted and lauded the efforts of Gujarat, saying that a programme to remove the invasive weed species, Prosopis juliflora, from grasslands in Kutch proved successful, as within seven days, GIB were observed in cleared areas. In Kutch, a pilot programme has been established to neuter stray dogs around the core areas of the Bustard sanctuary. At the same time, the dogs are vaccinated against rabies, which will benefit the local community.
 
 Devesh Gadhvi, deputy director of   and a member of the State Bustard Conservation Committee, said “The Gujarat government has taken some measures as a result of which we see some newborn GIB chicks. Recently, two GIB died from electrocution. However, even after a considerable period, these power lines still remain. The Gujarat government has formed a committee to examine the possibility of taking high-tension lines underground, but the committee does not have an expert on it.”
 
 The last bustard census was conducted in 2016 and the figures revealed that they numbered only 25. “According to reports, there is only one male visible in the area, which is a cause of concern. We fear that if no immediate measures are taken, the GIB will go extinct in Gujarat,” Gadhvi said.
 
 
