TRICHY: Thousands of employees working in the medical department of the Indian Railways have raised apprehension over the ministry’s move to close down railway hospitals, health centres and polyclinics across the country. Railway ministry has already notified to close down the schools run by the railways, and the medical staff in railways fear that with the closure of the hospitals they too may be shown the door. If the railway hospitals are closed, then the worst effected will be the ‘D’ grade employees who mainly depend on the medical facilities of the railway hospitals to for their medical needs.

 
  
 
 The Bibek Debroy committee on railway reforms had suggested that the railways not run hospitals and schools. According to the committee report, a total of 2,597 medical officers and 54,000 paramedical staff run the services in the railways.
 
 Medical staff cater to railway accidents and similar incidents, emergency medical treatment for sick passengers, pre-employment medical examination for prospective employees, periodical medical examination for employees, medical boards and other medical certification for employees, and running medical first-aid posts for Indian railway factories besides looking into safe water food supply at railway stations. This apart, as per the Factories Act, they certify dead bodies, perishable goods, curative health care, and preventive health care.
 
 Based on the availability of medical equipment and medicines, railway hospitals had been sending their patients to private hospitals. Employees can claim their expenses. However, at present employees are asked to visit any particular private hospitals for almost all treatment, and the expenses will be borne by railways, one of the employees in   division said. This might be the first step to implement the committee’s recommendations, he said.
 
 If medical activities were entrusted with the private hospitals, the periodical medical examinations will be compromised. Station masters, loco pilots, guards and chemists are to be fit in physical examinations. If there would be any compromise in those tests, it would be a threat to passenger safety, H Ghouse Baig, Indian Railways Technical Staff Advisor and retired railway employee, opined.
 
 The committee has observed that the services performed by the department can be outsourced to recognise and empanelled private practitioners. 
 
 The committee also said that both general managers and divisional railway managers and railway employees should be given a choice in determining whether they wish to use IRMS or exercise an alternative option.
 
 It is also noted that in reply to a query in Parliament, the state minister for railways   had stated that some recommendations (schools) have already been implemented and the remaining (medical, security) are under consideration.
 
 When contacted, divisional railway manager of Trichy railway division   said that no process has commenced to off-line the medical department from the railways’ core activity. "However, rumours are there that railway hospitals will be handed over to private parties. But nothing is concrete," he added.
 
 
