LUDHIANA: Even as the family of 22-year-old murdered man refused to open the wooden box in which it has kept his 3-week-old mutilated body parts, police on Saturday arrested three persons in the case and revealed how they allegedly slaughtered him for blackmailing sister of one of the accused.

 Body parts of Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Hathoor village in  , had been found near Chachowali village in Jalandhar.
 
 Those arrested were identified as   of Moheru,   Singh Feeta of Moheru village and Jatinder Gill of Gohir village near Nakodar. Police seized two daggers and a motorcycle from the accused, who had confessed to the crime. Police also recovered two mobile phones, ATM cards and Aadhaar card of Gurpreet from the trio. 
 
 Police said Gurpreet Singh, a former diploma student, was closely acquainted with the sister of one of the three accused after he met her online and had been blackmailing her using her morphed pictures.
 
 SSP (Ludhiana rural) Surjeet Singh said Gurpreet had been allegedly threatening to upload her morphed pictures on the internet. Prior to their meeting on December 30, 2017, when he was done to death, Gurpreet and the accused had met in September when they had told him to mend his ways.
 
 But Gurpreet continued to demand money from the girl and even made a fake ID on   in the girl’s name and uploaded her pictures while describing her as a call girl and lesbian, the SSP added. He even reportedly started sending messages to her friends through the account, police said. 
 
 In a bid to trap Gurpreet and teach him a lesson, accused Jatinder Gill also made a fake ID and started chatting with Gurpreet, the police officer said. During the conversation, he asked Gurpreet to hand over the pictures and videos of the girl. When Gurpreet demanded Rs 5,000 each for five pictures and videos, Jatinder readily agreed and fixed a meeting for December 30 at Ludhiana bus stand.
 
 “Gurpreet had to meet some other girl in Patiala from whom he took Rs 2,500, using similar modus operandi, the accused told us,” the senior police official said. 
 
 During the meeting, Gurpreet showed objectionable pictures of girl to the accused which annoyed the brother of the girl and other accused, who even snatched his mobile phone. Later, they decided to have a meeting with the accused at Rakh Bagh. 
 
 “Lovedish Sandhu later drove the motorcycle with Gurpreet sitting pillion and Harwinder and Jatinder accompanied them. But the accused did not stop at Rakh Bhag and told him that they were going to meet the girl and he will have to apologise to her. After crossing Phagwara, they stopped near a canal near Chachowali. Though Gurpreet tried to flee, they again caught him after which Jatinder hit him twice with a dagger at his back,” said the official.
 
 The SSP said later Jatinder and Lovedish held the arms and legs of Gurpreet and Harwinder Feeta slaughtered him. He said at that time they saw light of a motorcycle and ran away and spent the night at Lovedish’s house. Before leaving, they took the wallet of Gurpreet Singh containing Rs 2,500 cash, two ATM cards and a slip of de-addiction centre and also took both his mobile phones. 
 
 Police said the enmity between the accused and Gurpreet began in September when the girl first told one of the accused how Gurpreet was blackmailing her. She also told him that after their first meeting when she had met Gurpreet to give him Rs 5,000, he had taken her to a hotel and raped her.
 
 
