Alwar: The relocation plan of villages from the core and buffer area of   (STR), which has become a major factor behind poaching and man-animal conflict, has seen zero progress due to lack of political will and bureaucratic apathy. 

 More than 247 families continue to live inside the STR as they are unwilling to leave forest in absence of adequate compensation. However, not many efforts are being made to rehabilitate these villagers. According to a forest official, the Union government had announced a package of Rs 10 lakh for each adult member of a family or six bighas of agriculture land, a plot and Rs 2.5 lakh as compensation to the families to settle them outside the reserve. However, it has failed to attract these villagers.   of forest and field director of Sariska Tiger Project (Alwar),   said, "The villagers are adamant that government should provide a package to every male member whose age is 21 years and more. We have demanded the government to increase the rehabilitation package and hopefully it would be approved soon. The department has also earmarked land where these villagers can be relocated." The state government had reportedly earlier allocated Rs 13 crore for rehabilitation. But it was not a sufficient amount.
 
 According to the guidelines of   (NTCA), the government of Rajasthan had notified 881.11 sq km area as critical tiger habitat on December 28, 2007. As the deadlock continues, in the last five years, not much progress could be achieved in the relocation of the villages from the critical tiger habitat (CTH). 
 
 As per the records, currently there are 26 villages in CTH that need to be relocated and that are said to have violated the tiger habitat. Out of these, 10 villages are on 'priority I' and the rest are on 'priority II'. Till now, only three of the total 29 that come under the critical tiger habitat could be fully shifted. In 2007, village Bhagani was relocated. Two more villages, Umri and Rotkala, were completely shifted later.
 
 
