HYDERABAD: The implementation of the biometric attendance system (BAS) by the  , Hyderabad, could well cost 203 engineering and pharmacy colleges in the state their affiliation. Worse, as many as 12,000 faculty members could lose their jobs.

 As it turns out, 138 of 168 engineering colleges affiliated to   and 65 of the 85 pharma colleges have been found reporting discrepancies in the implementation of BAS. This college managements say might work against them.
  
  “We had thought that BAS is being implemented on trial basis, but unfortunately JNTU has rejected affiliation of most colleges based on BAS adherence. As many as 12,000 faculty members are flagged as they did not register their attendance properly through BAS. Because of this, there will be acute staff shortage,” said a member of the private college management association, on condition of anonymity.
 
 He added, “As we have been issued a deficiency report, we will be allowed to appeal only for minor deficiencies like recruiting one or two faculty members per department. However, because of BAS, at least 10 faculty members from each department have been rendered invalid. Unless they allow us to recruit more people, or count the faculty that has been flagged by the varsity, colleges won’t be able to meet the requirements need for affiliation.”
 
 Representatives of college managements, who met   on Tuesday to request them to relax some rules, said that the BAS clause could also adversely impact all minority engineering and pharmacy colleges (engineering – 40, pharmacy -15) and result in them losing their affiliation.
 
 The college managements also questioned the JNTU’s decision to reject affiliations to courses, which have less than 25% admissions.
 
 “If they had to reject the affiliation for these courses, what was the need for sending a fact-finding committee to inspect them. About 60-70 colleges will lose courses,” said an member of the college managements’ association.
 
 Refusing to budge from their stand on the BAS issue, JNTU officials said that they had made it quite clear to all colleges about the regulations. “The affiliation rules are on the website. We also explained the rules to managements. Now, they can’t say that there are not aware of the rules. Also, last year when we said that BAS will be taken into account in 2017, they requested us to consider introducing it from this academic year. Now, managements can’t change their version,” said  , registrar, JNTU adding that colleges still have time to appeal on the deficiency report. He said it was too early to ascertain how many colleges will lose affiliation.
 
