Think about famous detectives and who comes to mind?  ? Hercule Poirot? Closer home, the only ones at par with these internationally renowned detectives are probably   and  . Despite the fact that it has been several decades since they were on air, these shows remain fresh in the audience’s memory. The ’80s and the ’90s could very well be called the golden era of   on Indian television, and though many more shows on private detectives have come and gone, none of them has been able to hold the audience. We speak to the stalwarts of this genre and the current crop of actors about why detective shows have lost their sheen on television today.

  
  
 
 
 Rajit Kapur, who played detective Byomkesh Bakshi in the ’90s TV show of the same name, feels that television writers these days are not paid well and that’s the reason we don’t have shows, especially detective shows, with good writing. He adds, “Those stories were simple and effective. The characters were written with a purpose to steer the story forward. Makers of those shows relied more on the art of storytelling than on technical prowess. Today’s shows are based more on techniques. There is a dearth of writers these days who have a knack for writing good stories. For any detective show to excel, the most important factor is its story and how it is written. Television writers are also not willing to write good stories because they are not paid well. I think once we start paying our writers well, we will get good content on television as well.”
 
  
  Himani Shivpuri in Saboot (1998)
 
 
 
 Himani Shivpuri, who was a part of the ’90s detective series Saboot that had a female detective played by  , says, “There’s no novelty to detective shows these days. The audience doesn’t have anything new as a concept in detective shows. Earlier, a lot of time was spent to make those shows. There is a race against time today. The episodes are telecast daily and have to be made in a day or two. In the ’90s, we used to have at least five days to make one episode, and there was no pressure as there were not many shows running simultaneously. I think we can’t expect good quality with such a scarcity of time.”
 
  
    in   (2002)
 
 
 
 Jasoos Vijay, which went on air in 2002, was among the top-rated TV shows of its time. The show had Adil Hussain playing the lead in the first two seasons and at the end of each episode, Om Puri used to address the issue of HIV/AIDS and create awareness by visiting rural areas. Hussain believes that the lack of will to generate original and unique content is the reason why today’s detective shows are not able to connect with the audience. “Today’s detective shows lack drama. The Indian audience is attracted to the pursuit of truth, which is missing in shows these days. This is mainly because not much importance is given to writing now. Makers think that if mediocre things are doing well, why to put their hard work and money into creating something which demands extra? We celebrate mediocrity now. We are not curious enough to learn more and present better content to our audience,” he says. “Another reason why today’s detective shows are not able to make an impact is the easy availability of better content online. A large section of people in India today has access to the internet, where they can stream world class content which has been created with a lot of research and hard work. To bring our shows at par with these shows, we need a quantum shift in writing. Though the film fraternity is giving importance to writing, television still needs a major impetus.”
 
  
    in   (1999)
 
 
 
 Sudesh Berry, who has been a part of a number of detective shows and played the lead in the detective serial Suraag, thinks that actors these days lack the charisma to make a detective show work. He adds, “They may have six-pack abs and good looks, but they don’t have the style and persona to make a detective show work. The actors in the shows from the ’80s and ’90s had their own style. They used to sit on the driver’s seat and take the show forward. Writers and directors were important, but the lead actors had the potential to make the show work. For a detective show to make an impact, the lead actor should develop a style of his/her own. Unki body language mein aisi baat honi chahiye jo logon ko attract kare. Technique is secondary. The actor should be intuitive and should know what will work and what will not.”
 
  
  Sonia Balani in Detective Didi (2017)
 
 
 
 After a short stint on the big screen with Tum Bin 2, Sonia Balani returned to TV with Detective Didi, which didn’t do well and soon went off air. Ask Sonia the reason why her show didn’t appeal to the audience as much as the shows of the ’90s, and she blames the odd telecast time for the failure of her show. The actress says, “The detective shows of the ’90s have no comparison. Though I haven’t seen many of them, I have heard a lot about them. Karamchand is considered to be the pioneer of detective shows in India. But the reason behind the success of those shows, apart from good writing, is that they had no competition. I can’t say why detective shows don’t work these days, but one of the reasons why my show didn’t do well was the odd time slot. We got the weekend slot and that too of 8.30-9pm. It’s the time when families go out. When my own family used to put my show on recording and go out, how can I expect others to watch my show? Also, we tried to play safe by incorporating the elements of a detective and a family drama in one show, which didn’t work for us.”
 
 
  
    in Dev 
 
 
 
 Ashish Chaudhary, who plays detective Dev Anand Burman in the show Dev, which has come up with another season after the successful completion of its first season, says, “I had researched really hard before venturing into this genre, because I knew that in the recent past, detective shows have not done really well on television. I took inspiration from shows like Sherlock Holmes and Luther, and tried to connect with the audience through an emotional story. Since the lead in our show has a personal story, it helps the script navigate and stay connected with the audience. And now that we have come up with the second season, it seems that people are liking it.
 
  
  
 
