INDORE: Karkoon  , a farmer who consumed pesticide and died at a village in   district of Madhya Pradesh on May 5, had taken a loan under an age-old tradition prevalent among the Thillari community (a tribe of shepherds found in MP and Maharashtra).

 
 The tradition, known as  , is a kind of land ownerlabourer agreement, whereby a person taking loan from a community member has to help with labour at the farm of the loner for a specified period.
 
 Saaldari, which has been practised by the community for ages, came into spotlight after the Opposition Congress party raised the issue, alleging that Kondu of village   committed suicide after mortgaging his son Kashiram (17) to a moneylender for a loan and upon failure to repay the same.
 
 Kondu’s suicide had sparked a controversy but the district administration found out that the moneylender was the deceased farmer’s relative. The state government and the Burhanpur district administration dismissed the allegations that Kondu had mortgaged his son for a loan.
 
 Madhya Pradesh minister for women and child development Archana Chitnis, who also represents Burhanpur assembly constituency, claimed that the allegations were totally false and fabricated. She visited the village on Monday and met the family members of deceased farmer Kondu.
 
 “We have recorded the statements of Kondu’s wife and their son. Both have claimed that the son worked voluntarily at their relative’s farm. Incidentally, Kondu had secured a loan of Rs 2.5 lakh from his relative,” district collector Satyendra Singh told TOI.
 
 “Workers are not forced or exploited. The work contract is designed in a manner that the land owner is ensured of labourers’ help during the entire period of the agreement,” said SDM Sohan  , who is investigating the circumstances surrounding Kondu’s suicide.
 
 
 
 
 
 The SDM’s probe revealed that the loan of Rs 2.5 lakh was procured from the relative, who is also incidentally named Kashiram. As per the mutual agreement, Kondu’s son was to work for a salary of Rs 10,000 per month on Kashiram’s farmland.
 
 “Kondu’s son claimed in his statement that he was under no pressure to work. His salary was being collected by his father,” Kanar said.
 
 Kondu, who owned 2.5 acre land, had also procured a loan of Rs 67,000 from the district cooperative society. With interest, the total amount to be repaid was Rs 90,000.
 
 Sukha Kondu, a member of the Thillari community, told reporters that working in Saaldari system was an ageold practice.
 
 “I don’t know what the terms of agreement were between the deceased and the moneylender. It differs from people to people,” he said.
 
 In some instance, the land owner, in a bid to secure employment of labourers, paid a handsome sum in advance, which was later deducted from the salaries, he said.
 
 Chitnis, who visited the village, also announced plans to create mass awareness in order to make people self-reliant. “Some people work in direct paying jobs, some in Saaldari… I have checked with the entire village, there is not a single child put on mortgage for loan,” she told reporters.
 
 The minister also handed over a cheque of Rs 34,000 from the CM’s discretionary quota to Kondu’s family to repay the first installment of the loan from the cooperative society. The next instalment of the same amount will be due in 2019.
 
 The district administration has also sanctioned a sum of Rs 10,000 from the Red Cross Fund and started a pension for Kondu’s widow. 
 
