Mangaluru: The much talked-about autobiography, ‘Saalamelada Sangraama’, of former Union minister B Janardhana Poojary turned out to be a please-all exercise of a seasoned politician’s journey, barring a few references that may trigger controversies in political circles. The book that narrates his early life filled with poverty covers all major events in his career as a politician and his interaction with former Prime Ministers Indira Gandhi, P V Narasimha Rao and Rajiv Gandhi. Poojary, who is considered an outspoken Congress leader, has carefully avoided controversies. However, there are a few references to unsavoury incidents which involve Prime Ministers H D Deve Gowda, Manmohan Singh and other leaders.  A chapter on Deve Gowda becoming Prime Minister in 1996 has been titled ‘Deve Gowdara vachanabhanga’ (breaking promise), which is a on a personal level. Poojary writes that Deve Gowda failed to keep his word after becoming Prime Minister. “In 1996, Congress has come out as the largest party in the election. However, the party did not have the majority to form the government. United Front came forward to form government with the support of Congress. Deve Gowda, who was the chief minister of Karnataka, visited my house in Delhi along with C M Ibrahim seeking the support of Congress. I gave Deve Gowda a guarantee that he will be made the Prime Minister, but on one condition that he should visit Kudroli Sri Gokarnanatha Temple immediately after the swearing-in ceremony,” Poojary writes. He adds that Deve Gowda never visited the temple during his stint as Prime Minister.  Deve Gowda became Prime Minister with Congress support and travelled across the nation. In March 1997, he visited Dakshina Kannada district to participate in a programme at Belthangady. After knowing about his visit to Belthangady, an annoyed Poojary challenged Ibrahim, “I will remove him (Deve Gowda) if I am born to a Poojary.”  Poojary further writes that within a month, the then Congress president Sitaram Kesari withdrew Congress support to the government, leading to the fall of the Deve Gowda government.  In another chapter, Poojary refers to MP Oscar Fernandes as a ‘man who carried a bench became an MP’. He writes: “Oscar, who carried a bench by himself for the party meet in Udupi, is indeed a field worker,’’ said Poojary in appreciation. “I told Indira Gandhi that Oscar Fernandes is a field worker. Hence, the party ticket to contest from Udupi should be given to a field worker,” Poojary writes. His book also throws light on his association with the Billava community, Kannada matinee idol Rajkumar, Kudroli Sri Gokarnanatha Temple, Mangaluru Dasara and why he rejected offers to become the chief minister of Karnataka four times. 