PATIALA: Patiala-born Paramjit Singh was shot dead during an armed robbery at his store in Rome, Georgia in the US on Tuesday late evening. The assailant then entered another store in the vicinity and shot at another Indian before fleeing with the cash.

 Paramjit, 44, who owned the H-Tech Fuel station and Quick Stop store located on the Burnett Ferry Road in Rome segment of the Floyd County in Georgia, had sustained multiple gunfire injuries. He died on the spot.
 
 As per the reports reaching here, the Floyd police received two separate armed robberies alerts on Tuesday evening after which the rapid response teams reached there. In the first incident, Paramjit was killed, while in the second attempt the robber entered Elm Street Food and Beverage located not far from the Singh’s store and shot at 30-year-old store clerk Parthey Patel. He was rushed to the hospital where his condition was stated to be critical.
 
 The cops have already detained a 28-year old history-sheeter Rashad Lamar Nicholson in this regard. He was nabbed during a traffic stop and cops recovered a handgun and a large amount of cash from his vehicle.
 
 Paramjit , who owned two stores in Rome, had migrated to the US about 20 years ago and was now settled there with his wife and two children. According to Paramjit’s brother-in-law, Harry Singh, who is also settled in the US, the incident took place at around 8:50 pm on Tuesday evening. Though the emergency units responded quickly, Paramjit could not survive the multiple shots that had been fired at him. He said his body had been sent to the division of forensic sciences of the   for an autopsy.
 
 Harry said Parmjit was a family man, who started his life in the US as a driver for limousines in the New York before moving to Michigan where he got into the convenience store business. Prior to shifting his base, he lived in in South Richmond Hill, New York. About five years ago Paramjit shifted to Rome, where he bought a store near Martha Berry Boulevard and then went on to buy another store and gas station on the Burnett Ferry Road, in September, last year, where he was killed.
 
 Meanwhile, his customer posted several messages on social media sites recalling him as a kind man. None of his relatives in Punjab could be contacted. 
 
 
