NEW DELHI: Going by the number of   pending in Delhi, it would take about   for the victim to get justice. 

 A study by Nobel laureate   (KSCF) shows that reporting of sexual crimes against children has gone up by 34% in the past three years, but the number of investigating agencies or courts have remained the same.
 
 Data shows that every fifth girl child, most between the ages of five and nine, has faced sexual assault in some form or the other. 
  
  
 The KSCF team found that the incidence of children being sexually abused is on the rise in urban villages and unauthorised colonies and have proposed setting up a child tribunal for clearing cases of sexual assault.
 
 Sexual abuse of children occurs in places considered to be the safest by their parents, such as a school or even a public place. 
 
 The study found that 76% of people agree that a child is most vulnerable around his or her home, especially after dark. “We found that about 34% of the total crimes against children are related to sexual abuse,” said Satyarthi.
 
 The report cites changing social relationships, increased level of independence and changing psychology due to the influence of social media to be the reasons behind the spike in the number of cases of sexual assault on children.
 
 KSCF found that children who were subjected to sexual assault tend to develop vices like substance abuse, suicidal tendencies, indiscriminate sexual behaviour, self-harm and eating disorders.
 
 It is evident that the victim goes through the trauma until they reach a conclusion to the case. “During recent meeting with the government, we proposed setting up of a special investigating team comprising NGOs and police officers to identify the culprit and bring them to law and a special tribunal to fast track the cases,” Satyarthi said.
 
 Police added that in 96% of the cases, the accused are known to the family of the victims, which makes cases often go unreported. 
 
 “We found that in some cases the victim is always in the vicinity of the victim; it might be a father, an uncle or a family friend. At times, even the parents of the victim dissuade them from reporting the matter fearing societal pressure. This needs to change for us to take action,” said a senior police officer.
 
 The study, which was conducted across the country, revealed that only 72% of youngsters were aware of POCSO Act and its repercussions. “Almost 81% of people who responded denied having knowledge that children were victims of sexual assault,” said Satyarthi.
 
 Most people who were questioned about child sexual abuse were only aware of the most severe forms that are reported in the media. About 31% of the respondents admitted to having been sexually assaulted as a child.
 
 
