PATNA: With   (central range)  , who inspected police lines here on Thursday, issuing notices to about 200 absentee police personnel, questions are being raised over the way those managing the police lines function. It is surprising how senior police officers had no inkling about the absence of such a large number of policemen.

 The 200 policemen were found absent from the police lines without any permission from the department. Some constables have gone absent without leave (AWOL) for more than four years. This at a time when the Patna police is facing shortage of 2,400 officers and constables.
 
 Unlike other districts of the state, Patna has a senior superintendent of police ( ) and four superintendents of police (SPs), who are supposed to inspect the police lines. However, these officers apparently had no knowledge about the absence of the cops.
 
 The DIG said 20 constables have been absent for more than four years and 15 for more than two years. “The SSP and the SPs inspect the police lines every Tuesdays and Fridays. They should ensure optimum utilisation of available force,” he said.
 
 Kumar said the absentee cops have been asked to join duty within three days, failing which departmental proceedings will be initiated against them. “The absentee constables and police officers may also be dismissed under Police Act if they fail to respond to the notices sent to them,” the DIG added. He said the absentee cops included 35 sub-inspectors and assistant sub-inspectors as well.
 
 “More than 300 police personnel had no work to do. They have now been deployed on duty. Even commandos, who are meant for hard duty, were used for light duties. At least 35 such commandos armed with bulletproof jackets have been asked to remain stationed at   police station from 10am to 6pm to tackle any emergency. They have been allotted a bulletproof SUV and a mini bus for movement,” the DIG said.
 
 “The aim is to provide manpower to DSPs and SHOs to maintain law and order in the city,” Kumar added. 
 
 
