NEW DELHI: The temperature hit a peak of 46 degrees Celsius at Palam, the highest in two years for the month of May and six notches above normal, as searing northwesterly winds and clear skies made Tuesday the hottest day of the season.

  Wednesday could be even hotter with the Met office issuing a “heat wave” warning over the capital. The maximum temperature recorded at the city’s main weather station, Safdarjung, was 44 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, the season’s highest. The regional Met office said Wednesday could see a high of 45 degrees Celsius at Safdarjung.
 
  
  
 
  The met office said Thursday could see a slight drop in temperature with a likelihood of a dust storm. “The maximum may fall to 42 degrees on Thursday due to thunderstorm and dust storm activity. Following that, temperatures will rise once again and reach 45 degrees,” said the official.
 
 Temperature 4-6 degrees Celsius above normal, lack of wind adding to discomfort
 
 
 Other weather stations in Delhi recorded similar highs on Tuesday, with Ayanagar and Ridge registering 44.7 and 44.3 degrees Celsius, respectively.
 
  “The normal for this time of the season is around 40 degrees Celsius but we were four to six degrees above normal at places in Delhi today. Both Palam and Safdarjung recorded seasonal highs and it could hotter on Wednesday.
 
  We have issued a heat wave warning in Delhi, parts of Uttar Pradesh and north India for Wednesday,” said a senior Met official. Delhi had recorded a maximum of 41.8 degrees Celsius at Safdarjung on Monday while Palam saw the maximum touch 44.2 degrees Celsius. 
 
 A ‘heat wave’ is declared when temperatures are above 40 degrees C and more than four degrees above normal. Met officials attributed the rise in temperatures to a lack of moisture in the air, with easterly winds no longer blowing towards Delhi. 
 
 “There is no western disturbance affecting Delhi at the moment and the clear skies are helping the maximum shoot fairly high. Earlier, we were getting moisture through easterly winds but they have also changed direction and there is very little moisture at this moment,” said an official. 
 
 
 Airport Met officials said such high temperatures were affecting operations, especially cargo flights during the afternoon. “Between 1.30pm to 5pm, the temperature was 45-46 degrees at the runway. The air at such temperatures is very hot and less dense. This doesn’t provide the lift that aircraft normally get while operate in the morning or night,” said the official.
 
