NEW DELHI: The safety and operational performance of 700 large dams across 18 states will be improved through repair and rehabilitation work over six years (2020-26) at an estimated cost of nearly Rs 7,000 crore. Some of these dams will also be developed as tourist destinations so that it can generate revenue for maintenance and create jobs for local people. 

  The World Bank-funded project was cleared by a screening committee of the department of economic affairs last week . "It's an in-principle approval of the ministry of water resources' plan. It will now go to the World Bank for its nod before finally going to the cabinet," an official privy to the screening committee's decision said. The project will be implemented under phase-II of the Dam Rehabilitation and Improvement Project (DRIP) which is working on strengthening safety aspects of 223 dams in seven states at an estimated cost of Rs 2,100 crore in phase-I. DRIP-I was initiated in 2012 and will continue till June 2020 . The move is aimed at making these dams safe as many of them are very old and need maintenance and safety upgrade. There are 213 large dams in the country which are over 100 years of age. 
 
 
  
  
 
  India had in the past reported 36 dam disasters including the worst one in Gujarat (Machu dam in Morbi) where 2,000 people died and 12,700 houses were destroyed in 1979. Construction of the dam was completed in 1972 but its flanks were washed away in floods seven years later - sending a warning signal of dam failures in other parts of the country if their rehabilitation was not taken up. 
 
  "States have already identified the dams which will be taken up for rehabilitation, based on safety screening template developed by the World Bank. We'll need to prioritise them during the implementation phase," said the official. Some of the priority dams include   (Himachal Pradesh), Srisailam (Telangana), Koyna and Jayakwadi (Maharashtra), Matatila, Ramganga and Raj Ghat (UP), Pong (HP), Ukai (Gujarat), Rana Pratap Sagar and Mahi (Rajasthan),   and Rengali (Odisha) and Umiam (Meghalaya). Besides the three components of DRIP-I of rehabilitation and improvement, safety strengthening and project management, dams under the DRIP-II will have a fourth component in the form of 'revenue stream '. 
 
  "Developing dams for tourism and recreational activities and use reservoirs for high quality fisheries will be part of the revenue stream," said the official, referring to Niagara Falls in Canada and many dams in Switzerland. 
 
 
