Actress  , of teleshow 'Jodha Akbar' fame, on a recent visit to the city, was quite bowled over by the simplicity of Varanasi. The 'Naagin' actress, said, "Despite so much of developmental projects going on there, the simplicity of the city remains which has really impressed me. No matter how much Banaras develops, it will always remain simple at heart. I have been to the city earlier also, but only this time I got the opportunity to see much of it. During my short visit, I had gone for darshan at   temple and also did a kind of a food trail. Banaras has an amazing local cuisine. I just gorged on the kachoris, mailo and host of other delicacies. I have eaten so much that it will take at least a month to burn it out. There is lots more to Banaras and I really want to come back, maybe soon, to savour that," she says.

  
  Lavina performing Ganga aarti in Varanasi (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar) 
 
  
  Lavina at the ghat in Varanasi (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar) 
 
  
  Lavina at the ghat in Varanasi (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar) 
 
 Lavina, who has acted in several historical and mythological shows like 'Dharti Ka Veer Yodha  ' and ' ', says that it’s sheer co-incidence that she got to work in these shows, "Television is quite different from films. In films an actor is selected for a particular role but in television an actor rarely gets that choice. In TV we just give auditions everywhere and what comes back, we can give it a thought. The question of choosing a show only arises when we have been selected in the auditions for different shows. Mythological and historical shows have bigger overseas audience like Jakarta, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, as they want to know more about Indian culture. On the other hand, the Indian audience is caught up in their own drama to appreciate such historical and mythological shows. The Indian audience appreciate the saas-bahu saga more since they relate with it more. Ghar par bhi toh saas-bahu ka drama chalta hai. Chahe hum kitne bhi civilized ho jayen, par hum log saas-bahu ka basic nature nahi change kar sakte hain," she avers. 
 On the question of regressive content dominating television, the actor says, "Television shows are made for the masses and not for some select audience. Jo bikta hai wahi dikhta hai. Moreover, content is not generated from any vacuum, the ideas are drawn from what is happening in the society. At times people might not like such regressive shows but they watch it out of sheer inquisitiveness. Take the case of  , people did not like her but they saw her just out of curiosity. Similar is the case of these regressive shows. Moreover, content of television shows is irrelevant today. A lot of women see TV shows to see the styling of the female actors. At the end of the day, Hina Khan ne kya pehana tha, matters to the audience."
  is the next step for Lavina who wants to do off beat cinema. "There is no point in doing romantic films for which the star kids are already booked. I don't want to play a lead character but would rather do films like 'Shaitan' or 'Rang De Basanti', where every character is given its own importance. Doing performance-based films is far better than romancing as I am bad at romancing," she laughs. 
 — Meera.Vohra@timesgroup.com
 
