JAIPUR: Rajasthan has proved that it's without peers in yet another national-level entrance exam. The state managed the rare feat by securing the first four positions-Aman Garg (AIR-1),   (AIR-2), Anmol Gupta (AIR-3) and   (AIR-4)-in the Common Law Admission Test ( ) exam taken by 63,000 students from across the country. 

 
 Umang Khandewal of Jaipur came AIR-10, making it a new record for the state with five candidates in the top 10.
 
 Of the top four, the top three are from Jaipur and the fourth rank holder is from Udaipur. Other than securing five ranks in the top 10, Jaipur also managed 20 in the top 100. This is the second consecutive time that a Jaipur boy has bagged the first position.   of the city secured first in CLAT 2017.
 
 The three toppers-Garg, Kaushik and Gupta-from Jaipur studied together in the same batch and shared the same commerce stream. They are now set to study together for five years at the   in Bangalore. While their institute remains the same, their career paths are different. Garg aspires to become a politician while Kaushik wants to be a successful judicial officer (judge) and Gupta a successful 'argumentative' Indian (lawyer). 
 
 
 
 
 “My parents and teachers encouraged me to take up law as they find my arguments on every topic logical and rational. I thank them for guiding me to a career which suits my aptitude,” said Garg, who feels that the lack of legal knowledge is a threat to democracy.
 
 For Kaushik, it is his second big success in less than a week. He stood first in the separate entrance exam for the National Law University in Delhi last week. He wants to ‘increase the role of judiciary’ in every aspect of life. “Judiciary is clearing the mess around. They are the real torchbearers who have safeguarded the ethos of our Constitution from time to time by sometimes taking suo moto cognizance or timely action on PILs,” said Kaushik. The top three rank holders had taken ClatPrep education.
 
 This year around 63,000 students appeared in the exam for 2,100 seats in 19 national law schools. Over the past five years, students from Jaipur are regularly making their presence in the top 20 ranks in the CLAT exam. “Rising awareness together with specialised coaching facilities have contributed to scripting this success,” said Pranav Mishra, CLAT expert, adding that the city would emerge like Kota as a coaching centre for nationallevel exams.
 
 
