Mumbai: In an internal instruction marked ‘top priority’, the   ( ) has directed its officials to approach the regional offices of the   ( ) for revival of entities whose names had been struck off. The main purpose is to ensure that the various proceedings by the income tax (I-T) authorities in respect of such corporate taxpayers — be it assessment, imposing of penalty or prosecution that are under way or are contemplated — are not impacted.

 As an alternative, CBDT directs that I-T officials may, on a case-to-case basis, directly file an appeal before the   ( ) for immediate revival of the struck-off companies.
 
 In September last year, the   ( ) had struck off the names of more than 2 lakh companies, including those that have not complied with filing obligations under the Companies Act for a consecutive period of two years or more.
 
 CBDT’s letter dated December 29, addressed to I-T officials of high rank, explains that when a company is struck off the register of companies, it does not in any manner absolve it from discharge of its I-T liabilities. However, it adds, “Pursuant to being ‘struck off’ from the register of companies, these have ceased to exist, leading to uncertainty regarding various other proceedings which were already under way under the I-T Act, in case of these companies.”
 
 It outlines five circumstances when I-T officials should approach the regional offices of the RoC for revival of the companies. These include where assessments (including in search cases) are under progress or were contemplated in the near future, in cases of I-T litigation where appeals filed by the department were pending, where penalty proceedings that had been initiated were pending, and lastly where prosecution proceedings had been initiated.
 
 The request for revival of the ‘struck-off’ company should be retrospective, which is from the date of the strike-off, CBDT tells its officials. I-T officials do not have a fix on the quantum of I-T demands outstanding from such companies. Even if the quantum of recovery due from each company is small, collectively it will be significant, says a senior I-T official.
 
 This internal instruction emanates from suggestions made to the task force on shell companies that was set up by the Prime Minister’s Office in November-end. Here, it was suggested that protection of interest of the revenue (which means, the tax department) would be a strong ground in favour of restoration of companies that had been struck off.
 
 Gautam Nayak, partner at CNK & Associates, a firm of chartered accountants, explains, “Many of the companies struck off have been functioning, but have just not been filing returns with the RoC. This instruction by the CBDT was necessary, as otherwise it would have been impossible for the I-T authorities to raise tax demands against the concerned companies. However, recovery of these I-T demands may be difficult in cases where the companies do not possess any assets. In such cases, where the I-T demands cannot be recovered from the company, it should be possible for the I-T authorities to proceed against the directors, where the companies are private limited companies.”
 
 Currently, until March end, over 3 lakh disqualified directors associated with companies that have been struck off have an open window to regularise compliances under the Companies Act.
 
 
