BENGALURU: BJP president   on Monday kick started his two-day visit to Karnataka, where state assembly polls are due this year. During his visit he will visit   associated with the   and Dalit communities.

 Amit Shah met Tumakuru based M Siddaganga mutt seer Shivakumar swamiji, his first stop on a two day tour of the state. He then left Tumakuru for Tiptur to meet Coconut growers convention
 
 Besides visiting a number of mutts associated with various communities, including Lingayats and Dalits, Shah will also address farmers' and traders' meetings, take out a road show and attend party events in the poll-bound state, a BJP statement said.
  
  
 BJP chief Amit Shah will visit Bekkinakalmath in Shivamogga later in the day. He will meet the seer of the mutt, which has considerable influence over Lingayats and Veerashivas in Malnad district of Shivamogga. The mutt is located on the banks of river Tunga on Sham Prasad Mukherjee road in Shivamogga.
  
  
 “This is the first time I have had the opportunity to meet the Siddaganga Swamiji and it was heartening to see him enlighten people around even at this age. With the elections ahead, as BJP heads for the fight under the leadership of Yeddyurappa, I believe that the Swamiji’s blessings to us will be boost to our efforts”— BJP national president Amit Shah after his meet with the seer.
  
  
 
 Amit Shah will start his Shivmogga visit by paying respect to the samadhi of Rastrakavi Kuvempu at Kuppalli. Dr K V Puttappa, who is popularly known as the KUVEMPU, was born on December 29, 1904 in Kuppalli. He is the receiptant of various awards including Karnataka Ratna (1992); Padma Vibhushan ( 1988); Pampa Award (1987); Jnanpith Award (1967); Rashtrakavi ("National Poet") (1964).
  
  
 Following the Siddaramaiah government's decision to accord minority religion status to Lingayats, who have mostly welcomed the move, Shah's visits to their holy places and meeting gurus is seen as part of his efforts to ensure that the community, the largest in the state, continues to back the BJP.
 
 B S Yeddyurappa is not accompanying Amit Shah in his Kuppalli visit. Saffron leaders are arriving in two helicopters. 
 
 
  
 
 The Congress government's decision, political observers have said, is aimed at denting the vote bank of the BJP, which has declared B S Yeddyurappa its chief ministerial candidate.
 
 Shah is expecetd to visit the Siddaganga mutt and seek the blessings of its seer. He will on Tuesday visit Madara Chennaiah mutt, which has been traditionally associated with Dalits.
 
 He will also visit the Bekkinkal, Sirgere and Muruga mutts among others during his visit to the state's central region.
 
 The BJP is making an all-out effort to unseat the Congress from the only big state where the grand old party is in power.
 
 Congress president Rahul Gandhi has also been frequenting the state and visited holy places linked to different religions and castes. 
 
