The latest episode of   starts with   and   planning to expose the lawyer and getting to know who got Kiran released on bail. Raman falls down from the stairs and starts screaming for help and says that he has hurt his leg. The lawyer hears Raman and comes to help him. Lawyer along with his men help Raman and make him sit on the bench. Meanwhile, Ishita sneaks into the lawyer's room and checks his phone. Ishita reads his messages and gets to know the person who arranged the bail. Ishita is shocked and suddenly the lawyer comes to his room and asks Ishita why is she carrying his phone. Raman and Ishita walk out and Ishita informs him about the person who got Kiran out on bail and both decide to confront the person.

 Later,   is shocked to see Mani at her house. Mani demands to meet her land lady and ask whether Roshni had any fuse issue last night and if Adi repaired it. The land lady takes Roshni's side and tells Mani to leave or she will call the cops. The lady feels that Adi and Roshni are husband and wife and tells her to sort out her differences with Adi's uncle. Roshni promises the lady to sort out problems soon and goes to her room. Meanwhile, Adi calls her and she tells him about Mani's visit. Roshni cries and tells him that she does not understand what to do. Adi tries to calm her down and promises her that he will fix everything. 
 
 Later Adi and Roshni meet at a cafe where she asks Adi about their relationship. Roshni further tells Adi to stop meeting her but he refuses and tells her that he cannot live without her. Roshni asks him if he can live without   and Adi does not reply to her. Roshni tells Adi that he is a married man and blames herself for everything. 
 
 On the other side, Raman and Ishita return home, and   asks them about the culprit. Raman avoids Ruhi's question and she gets aggressive and decides to expose the culprit on her own. 
 
 Raman shouts at Ruhi and tells her to stop her drama. Raman's father, Mr. Bhalla walks in and informs everyone that he was the one who got Kiran out of jail. He further explains everyone that he is not involved in any of the scams. But he just helped Kiran as once she had helped him during his heart treatment and even paid the medical bills. Raman and Ishita decide to meet and thank Kiran. They further ask her who got her out from the jail, but Kiran refuses to speak.
 
 
