LUDHIANA: Two days after a 25-year-old woman and her friend were booked for the murder of a farmer in a village near  , the   have found anomalies in her statement. The cops are awaiting viscera report to ascertain the cause of death of the farmer.

 On Friday, the accused woman and her bus conductor friend were arrested and charged with murder after the 26-year-old man, who had allegedly been courting her, was found dead in her house. The woman had told the police that the deceased forcibly entered her house past midnight, came to her room, and committed suicide by hanging himself from the ceiling fan.
 
 Ludhiana (rural) SSP   said there were discrepancies in the statement of the woman and the circumstantial evidence found at the crime spot. He added that the cause of death would be known after they receive viscera report in the next few days.
 
 Police said in her statement the woman claimed that the deceased had come inside her house from the back gate. “But that gate is around 12 feet high and was locked. It has a barbed wire above it and electricity line over it, so it is not possible for anyone to jump the gate. So the woman’s statement sounds dubious,” the police official said. 
 
 Sources in the police said the circumstantial evidence suggests that the man may not have hanged himself. They added that the accused had told a villager, who had noticed the woman standing outside her house at 3am on Friday and became suspicious, that the man had committed suicide and they were going to throw his body into a canal. “The accused also told the villager not to tell anyone about it. Besides, the accused threw the mobile phone of the deceased into the canal to damage all evidence. That mobile phone could have yielded vital clues.” 
 
 Sources said it was being suspected that the accused might have poisoned the man and there might be a love triangle. 
 
 ‘He kept calling me up’
 
 The woman, a graduate, owns a three-acre farmland in the village and a house.
 
 The accused woman had been living alone in the house since 2014, after the death of her maternal aunt who had adopted her. She has claimed that the deceased had been calling her up for a month and asking her to have a relationship with him. The woman alleged that he phoned her again on Thursday and said if she didn’t agree he would commit suicide at her place. The SHO told that the woman claimed that she called her male friend, also aged 25, to her house around 2am, after the farmer committed suicide. The police booked the two accused on the statement of the father of the deceased.
 
 
