BHOPAL: Speculation about a change in the leadership in Madhya Pradesh   — and that former Union minister   would be handed the reins — gathered steam on Wednesday when news spread that AICC general secretary in-charge of the state,  , is going to Gwalior on Thursday to meet Guna MP Jyotiraditya Scindia.

 State PCC organisational general secretary Chandrika Prasad Dwivedi said Babaria is going to meet families of those killed in the April 2 Bharat bandh violence. But sources in the party said there is more to Babaria’s itinerary than the condolence meetings. Most state leaders in the party see this as an exercise to bring all factions together before the name of the new PCC chief is announced.
 
 Despite the official denials, a former state Congress vice-president told TOI that AICC president   has signed the letter appointing the new state party chief. “It is only a matter of time before it is announced,” he said. Sources say an announcement is likely after Rahul’s Jan Akrosh rally on April 29.
 
 There has been intense speculation for the past week or so that Kamal Nath would be the next state Congress president. The buzz intensified on Monday after he said at a press conference in Indore that the “process to restructure the state unit and change its leadership has been initiated”. Asked when the change will be announced, Kamal Nath said, “The wait won’t be long.” He also said that Madhya Pradesh, with all its complexities, “needs not one face, but many faces”.
 
 However, Babaria denied any such move or that he had spoken about it. “I have not spoken on change in PCC leadership to anyone from the media so far. I have been consistently saying that when such a decision is officially taken, it will be revealed to everyone,” he told TOI on Wednesday.
 
 State PCC chief Arun Yadav also denied there is any move to replace him. “I am sitting here, in the state Congress office, and working for the party. Whatever is going around is only in the media. No one in New Delhi is talking about change. Let me make it clear that AICC president Rahul Gandhi will be the face of Congress in the upcoming assembly elections,” he said. Asked about the buzz about the new PCC chief, Leader of Opposition Ajay Singh said: “Only Rahul Gandhi is the face of Congress.”
 
 A PCC office-bearer said that Babaria and Scindia will meet in Gwalior on Thursday and travel together to  , about 100km away, to attend a religious function. Scindia is on an official visit to his constituency from April 24 to 27.
 
 
