JAIPUR: The Indian Lawyers’ Association meeting in Jaipur concluded on Sunday with a seminar in memory of founder member VR  , on the topic ‘Increasing Inequality and the Remedies Available in the Constitution of India’. Mumbai lawyer Niloufer   (wife of Admiral Vishnu Bhagwat), who serves as national vice-president of this association, delivered a keynote address that mapped causes for rise in inequality since economic liberalization in the early 1990s. She suggested a cap on the wealth of those seeking to contest elections to break the nexus between corporate houses and political parties. Like Mahatma Gandhi, lawyers must seek forums outside courts if circumstances demand it, she said.

 Bhagwat spoke of how data on deepening inequality was being reported in the press at a time when political parties were speaking of India as having “arrived” on the world stage. She spoke of the push for liberalization from international bodies, at a time when rates of profit were declining for transnational companies. India was forced to open up her vast markets for these firms with liberalization in the early 1990s, she said, adding that this had caused a financial drain from India.
 
 Agreements India signed as part of World Trade Organization put an end to government support to peasants and small businessmen, traders and artisans. “Farmer suicides that began in the 1990s has continued, and is not confined to arid parts. Even in Punjab, farmers are committing suicide,” she noted, calling attention to the fact that about three decades after independence, India had emerged as a more industrialized nation than China through a strong public sector and protection for farmers and small businesses.
 
 Land reforms were undertaken, there was ceiling on urban land holdings too. The expansion of the public sector took care not just of the provision of minimum wages, but offered fair wages. She observed that with the weakening of that edifice and the push towards inviting foreign investment, the country was plunged into a crisis not just in agriculture but in the creation of decent jobs too. “The Jats, Marathas and Patels, who earlier eked a respectable livelihood from agriculture are now clamouring for reservation in government jobs, at a time when the backlog of employment for Scheduled Castes and Tribes – from the time of Independence -- has not yet been met.” The erstwhile Planning Commission had noted that tribes were being dispossessed of their lands and homesteads by mining companies. “This is unconstitutional – tribal lands cannot be bought or sold,” she said.
 
 She regretted that the government is unleashing a “financial war” – demonetization, to mop up domestic savings without touching the one percent that sends its income off-shore, GST in the name of ‘tax rationalization’ that put an unfair burden of maintaining account books on small shopkeepers, the proposed Finance and Insurance Regulatory Bill that has been referred to a parliamentary committee and could be used to channel savings or ordinary people into recapitalizing banks, were all assaults on ordinary people with ‘junk economics’ she said.
 
 The introduction of electoral bonds showed that corporate houses were having an unfair say in policy, she said, urging lawyers to heed the example of Mahatma Gandhi. “He went to South Africa as a lawyer. When he encountered the condition of Indians there, he petitioned the government several times. Finding the petitions not having impact, he chose other methods, and then returned to India to use those techniques here too. If we, as lawyers, find that the court is not sovereign, that it is amenable to outside influences, we too must use other fora. When the four SC judges recently approached the fourth estate, they were doing just that – warning of the danger to democracy.”
 
