After his popularity as Pappi ji in ' ', it was Deepak Dobriyal’s character from 'Hindi Medium' that not just garnered appreciation from the audience, but also changed the perception of people from the film industry who thought Deepak would be fit only for comic roles. But the actor says that 'Hindi Medium' was special for him because of more than one reason. The movie was set in Delhi – the city he grew up in – and highlighted the divide between government and private schools in the city, a difference he closely observed while he studied at a government school here. The actor, who was in Delhi recently to promote his film ' ', talked about his school and college days in Delhi, his learnings from doing theatre with Arvind Gaur and being an actor "who is infamous in Bollywood for rejecting roles."

  
  (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
 Deepak's family moved to Delhi from a village in Garhwal when he was in Class VI, and he took admission in Begumpur's Govt Boys' Senior Secondary School. He says that it was the time when education in some government schools in Delhi was better than some private schools, but his school was different. "There was   and a few other government schools in RK Puram and Moti Bagh which were really good, but sadly, my school was not among the good ones. Pata nahi padhai hoti nahi thi ya hum karte nahi thay, par padhane ka tareeka thoda pressure waala tha. I used to be scared of the strict teachers who came to the class with a stick or would call our parents. My parents were not strict and never came to school after my admission. Since I have seen all that, I think the image that people have in their minds about government schools – as was presented in 'Hindi Medium' – is right to a great extent," says Deepak. 
 
 The actor adds that though he didn’t bunk any class in school, he never took interest in what was being taught. "This is the problem of our education system – what we are taught in schools is hardly of any use in our lives. We only study to pass the exams. I did my graduation in correspondence from   and haven’t even collected my degree yet. I learnt more through scripts while doing theatre than books in school. My scripts taught me about the work of authors like  . I read a lot of literature when I was doing theatre and that has stayed with me."
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Deepak – like everyone else who goes to Mumbai to become an actor – had his share of hardships. The actor says that things were more difficult for him as he was determined that he would not change a few things about himself. And one among them was his physique. "When I went to Mumbai, I noticed that everyone used to go to the gym and wanted six-pack abs. I didn’t want to look like one of them. I decided to change nothing about my looks and that worked in finding the roles I wanted to do," says Deepak, who has worked in films like 'Omkara', but got recognition only after 'Tanu Weds Manu'. After the success of the latter, "everyone thought I would only do comic roles," says the actor. 
 
 He says he was called 'arrogant' and 'rude' for rejecting offers by big production houses. "In comedy, people took me for granted. After 'Tanu Weds Manu', sab maane baithe the ki ye aise roles hi karega. I said no to many big production houses. Everyone used to see me as Pappi ji. I annoyed many people. The three years of my career were very challenging and I rejected a lot of roles. People said that I was being arrogant and I didn't know how to deal with big banners. Many people got offended and thought, 'yeh kaise mana kar sakta hai, but now, those people are coming back after my last four films have been hits. I've earned respect for myself. I was considered rude and people used to think, 'who the hell is he? Yeh kaise na kar sata hai? Yeh samajhta kya hai apne aap ko?', but now people have learnt to respect me," explains Deepak.
 
 
 After watching Delhi Belly, written by Akshat Verma, Deepak was keen to work with the writer-director and when the offer came for Kaalakaandi, he had no reason to reject it. "The film is a dark comedy and is a niche film. This is a comedy that people would talk about and would relate to,” says Deepak. "I was so excited to do this film that I instantly agreed to shave my head for the role and shocked the director of Hindi Medium. Bald hona kaafi mehenga pada mujhe, 1-2 films haath se bhi jaane waali thi. It was because of the cameraman of Hindi Medium who thought the bald look was perfect for my character that I was able to do that film. Then, to be in that look, I had to remain bald for a few months," he says.
 
 
