SHIMLA:   chief minister Jai Ram   has requested the Centre to provide 100%   to industries in the state for first five years and 50% subsidy for the next five years. He also requested provision of interest subvention of 7% for seven years to promote industrial development in the hilly state.

 Thakur, who was in New Delhi to attend the pre-Budget meeting of finance ministers of states and union territories on Thursday, also suggested that corporate tax rate be reduced to 20% to push industrial development as entrepreneurs were denied of benefits of capital investment subsidy which ended in March 2017. He said although a special committee was formed to prepare an extensive industrial policy for hill states, no announcements had been made so far. He said central capital investment subsidy should be continued till new announcements are made. 
 
 The chief minister added that freight subsidy scheme and reimbursement of transport cost of about Rs five crore at the rate of 75% should also be restarted. He said import duty on apple should be enhanced as announced in   2018-19 so that interests of horticulturists in Himachal are protected.
 
 He also sought subsidy or viability gap fund for operating flights and heli-taxi services on the pattern of north eastern states to Himachal Pradesh for tourism promotion as well as disaster management. He suggested that Centre make announcement regarding expansion of helipads from Union Budget besides making budgetary provisions for expansion and construction of airports in hill states. He said that environment protection would be a priority of the state government.
 
 Thakur also pushed the state’s case for according priority to expansion and strengthening rail network, saying efforts should be made for constructing Bhanupalli-Bilaspur-Manali-Leh rail line besides making   rail line broad gauge. He also requested to declare these projects as national projects keeping in view their strategic importance.
 
  council meeting
 
 Shimla: At the GST council meeting, CM   said problems of stakeholders should be attended on priority. He said detailed analysis of revenue receipts and taxpayers returns could not be carried out as management information systems (MIS) had not been made available on GST portal to the implementing departments. He also requested Centre for changes in GST rules and rate structure either on quarterly or six monthly basis, depending upon the situation. He also asked for use of appropriate business intelligence tools in IT solution to detect mismatch and tax evasion. 
 
 
