VIJAYAWADA: In a major reshuffle within the city police commissionerate limits, Vijayawada police commissioner D Gautam Sawang has transferred 18 circle inspectors. An order to this effect was issued late on Monday night. The transfer of inspectors was pending for more than a year.

 Three Town inspector J Murali Krishna and V Town inspector Y Bala Rajaji have been transferred to II Town and   police stations respectively.
 
 The incumbent inspector of Bhavanipuram police station, K Srinivasa Rao, has been posted as cyber crime inspector. NSKV Durga Rao of II Town police station has been posted as traffic inspector. GV Vinay Mohan, Suryaraopet circle inspector, and GVV  , Vuyyuru circle inspector, were sent to Vacant Reserve (VR).
 
 B Gunaramu, who was in VR, has been posted as inspector of the task force and MV Durga Rao, another CI in VR, has been shifted to the Nunna police station in the place of Saherunnisa Begum who has been transferred to the Machavaram police station.
 
 K Umamaheswara Rao of the Machavaram police station has been posted as CI of the Patamata police station where Penamaluru inspector K Damodar had been holding additional charge.
 
 CI M Satyanarayana of the Satyanarayanapuram PS, who was holding an additional charge of Ajitsingh Nagar, has been shifted to the Suryaraopet police station. The   position was filled with MVV Jagan Mohan Rao who was in the central crime station (CCS). C S  , who was in VR, was given the charge of Satynarayanapuram PS.
 
 K Sivaji and V Pavan Kishore, who were in the VR, have been posted as inspectors at   and Ibrahimpatnam police stations respectively. The incumbent at Ibrahimpatnam, D Chavan, has been shifted to traffic police station. P Satyanandam, who is presently working as cyber cell inspector, has been posted as Kankipadu CI, replacing K Sridhar Kumar who has been shifted to Gannavaram police station.
 
 The transfers have been kept pending for the past one year for various reasons. 
 
 The CIs attached to Penamaluru, Krishna Lanka, I Town and Gandhi Nagar police stations have not been transferred.
 
 
