PUNE: After a spurt in book cafes and clubs in the city, housing societies have realised the importance of inculcating the habit of book reading among children. Residential societies are opening up libraries to enable children and adults borrow books free of cost.

 According to  , a resident of   in Pimpri — a society having 12 wings and about 480 apartments, there are nearly 200 children and about the same number of senior citizens. “Due to the busy schedule, we don’t find time to go to a   outside and read. Hence, we thought of having a room in the society where there will be books,”   said.
 
 Malwankar believes that when a kid inculcates a habit, there is a greater chance for other kids to get influenced by that. “So if one picks up a book, the others would want to try it out. This will lead to a love for reading which is necessary in the present scenario. The library is expected to be set up by next month and senior citizens will monitor its working.”
 
 Supreme Palms Balewadi is another society where the idea has received a good response. “Three members look after the library that is open every week on Friday for an hour. We keep records of books issued and returned. There is no membership fee, but there is a fine for late return and damage to books. However, the fine is nominal,” Sherline P  , a resident, said.
 
 There are six buildings and about 200 flats in the society. “While children have inculcated the habit of reading, parents have also started borrowing books. One person can borrow one book at a time,” Sherline.
 
 Ankita Shahane, a resident of Pristine Prolife phase 2, Wakad, also plans to convince her society members to open a library. “Not all parents would buy expensive books for their child every time. But if there is a library on the campus, people can borrow from a wide range of books,” Shahane, who plans to open the library this year, said.
 
  of   near Alandi said: “In a digital world, parents find it hard to take out time to read. How will our children understand the pleasure of reading?”
 
 
