PATNA: The rehabilitation of   is likely to be delayed by around six months due to non-availability of steel.

 The ministry of road, transport and highways, which is executing the project, had initially proposed to use corrosion-resistant steel in making triangular steel girders for replacing the superstructure of the bridge. Sources said the corrosion-resistant steel was proposed to be imported either from   or China. However, some issues cropped up in importing the steel, following which it has now been decided that similar steel manufactured in India will be used.
 
 New steel girder-based spans were initially proposed to be laid on the western flank of the bridge by September this year and vehicular movement was to commence by November. However, state road construction department minister   said work had been delayed by around six months owing to non-availability of steel.
 
 “It was proposed that the western flank of the bridge will be demolished first and steel girders will be laid simultaneously. However, the corrosion-resistant steel could not be imported from foreign countries for some reasons. Though it has now been decided that Indian steel will be used, it will take couple of more months before the required steel is supplied for rehabilitation of the bridge. Accordingly, the project is likely to be delayed by at least six months,” the minister told TOI. He, however, added the executing agency has been asked to complete the project within the stipulated timeframe of 42 months.
 
 Work on demolition of the western flank of the Setu had started in February last year. Sources said spans have been demolished up to pillar number 29 from Hajipur-end of the bridge as of now.
 
 PATCH 
 
 Four-lane bridge: A proposal for construction of a four-lane bridge parallel to Mahatma Gandhi Setu is likely to be tabled at the next meeting of the   ( ) of the Union ministry of finance. The new bridge is part of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s special package of Rs 1.26 lakh crore, which he had announced prior to assembly elections in the state in 2015. The bridge is proposed to be constructed by the Union ministry of road, transport and highways with an estimated expenditure of Rs 3,100 crore. After the PIB’s nod, the proposal will be tabled at the meeting of the Union cabinet.
 
 
