BHUBANESWAR: To help the   put its best foot forward for the Men's Hockey World Cup scheduled to be held from November 28, the authorities have decided to improve three areas - city bus service, beautification and sanitation.

 The city will host the mega event just 14 months after the Asian Athletics Championship that was held here in July 2017. From wall graffiti to the setting up of modern public toilets, the city is ready to impress international delegates and sportspersons who will visit it at the end of this year. More than one lakh tourists, including 20,000 foreigners, are expected to visit the city during the event to be held at  .
 
 The   (BMC) has finished building 14 out of the 17 community toilets planned for the slums. Out of the 50 modern toilets planned for the city, work on 18 has been completed. Being constructed by  , these will be ready by the end of March and will help raise the city's sanitation levels, said a   officer.
 
 The civic body will facilitate Google-based online information on location of public and community toilets. The completion of the toilets will help the BMC fetch a good score in the Swachh Survekshan (cleanliness survey) held by the Centre every year.
 
 Anticipating the rush during the 15-day event, the   and the BMC have also decided to augment the city bus service by procuring 200 more buses. Currently, the city has 110 buses plying various routes. The authorities will try to implement the e-mobility (electric-powered transport system) project planned for the city at an investment of Rs 219.75 crore.
 
 Like the Asian meet, the walls near the Kalinga Stadium will be painted with images depicting the evolution of hockey. A panel of artists has been roped in for the job. They will conceptualize the themes, including a depiction of the city's rich cultural heritage, aesthetics and lifestyle.
 
 "This is an opportunity to showcase the beauty of the city before international guests and sportspersons so that they carry a positive impression about Bhubaneswar," said a BDA spokesperson.
 
