It is going to be a musical treat for the music lovers in California as the inaugural  , presented by The   Group, is coming to the Shoreline Amphitheatre in Mountain View on May 19-20.

 With a line-up of some extraordinary artists like Usha Uthup,  ,  ,   and others, it is undoubtedly going to be a terrific event. Some of the artists even interacted with the Indian American media outlets on May 17.
 
 Apart from witnessing the melodies of some renowned singers like  , Mika Singh, Gippy Grewal and others, the line-up also features renowned a capella band  , the Kakkar sisters – Akriti, Prakriti and Sukriti – and IndianRaga.
 
 Speaking about the conception of the fest, Satyan Gajwani, CEO of BCCL Worldwide Inc., and vice chairman of Times Internet Limited, reportedly said that the Times Group has a very long and established presence in India but now in the U.S. they are giving it more of a push to build more relevant offerings for the South Asian community. He added that they felt what better way to really highlight and represent the essence of India than having the biggest Bollywood music festival.
 
 Gajwani also reportedly said that they plan to hold similar events across the US. He also added that Bollywood’s music industry is often being driven by actors who are the face of the movies and the music that comes out. But the Times group is working towards changing that.
 
 Shubhra Bhardwaj, CEO/founder of Ferriswheel Entertainment Private Limited and the festival director, reportedly said technically this show will be the one of largest that any music concert has ever seen.
 
 Singers have a fan base all over the world and to get an opportunity to interact with the fans so closely is something that can be special for the singers. Speaking about the same, Armaan reportedly felt that their fans are getting to see their favourite singers and they are getting to be close to their fans and that’s a beautiful thing that Gaana Music Festival has done.
 
 Ayushmann Khurrana is among the crop of actors who balance quite well between acting and singing. Spilling beans on the same, he reportedly said that acting and singing are so different that he doesn’t feel the need to be insecure. Singers have been lending their voice to actors for time immemorial.
 
 Gaana Music Festival is presented by Toyota and powered by Cox and Kings along with associate sponsors State Farm, McDonalds, ICICI Bank-Money to India and Sling TV.
 
 
 
