AHMEDABAD: It has now been established that the video of three lioness being given a cow as live bait was shot near Dhari and the incident involved tourists. The forest department, after arresting Sohil Garana, the son of a former employee, found that such activity was rampant across  , wherever there was the permanent presence of lions.

 Forest department officials involved in the investigation said they found 200-odd videos from the seven persons arrested in the case, including Garana. Officials said the six others had deleted their videos their mobile phones will be sent to the   to retrieve the deleted data.
 
  Forest officials said after Garana’s arrest they found more than 100 video, shot at various locations — Gir West, Gir East and even the coastal belt. Officials said Sohil Garana said he was a big cat lover and would shoot videos wherever he saw lions.
 
 A video of three lionesses killing a cow, used as live bait, had gone viral on social media. This is the first a video showing the use of live bait has emerged. Officials said Garana had refused to divulge the location of the video and had deleted it after media reports came out. The investigation led to arrest of six others — Abdul Rehman alias   (29), Abasi Iqbal Jariwala (37),   (28), Ashish Chauhan (45),   alias Asif Lion (32) and   alias Pappu (20).
 
 One of the six turned approver, handed over the video and told the department that it had been shot near Dhari. Garana was again arrested by the Dhari division and is now in judicial custody.
 
 Official said the six others said they were lion lovers and took videos and photographs where ever they saw lions. “They had taken friends and relatives of friends for lion shows who were sometimes from other states. We could not establish the involvement of money. Even if this is established, it will be difficult to establish that the show was staged,” said a senior officer.
 
 An officer part of the investigation said that with the help of beat guards and guides, people like Garana target families that were unable to sight lions during their safaris within the sanctuary. They were also in touch with several farmhouse owners and hotel staff, who would show them video clips and lure tourists to the illegal shows.
 
 A family could be charge anything from Rs 5,000 to Rs 10,000. If they wanted to shoot the lion making the kill, the charge would be Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000. The prices would vary according to the number of members. 
 
 
