KOLKATA: Jadavpur University’s newly acquired autonomous status could become a double-edged sword, felt some senior academicians, educationists and students on Wednesday. While it promised to change the status quo, bringing with it laurels and recognition, it could also nudge the   towards unforeseen challenges, they said. For now, however, the promises outweighed the concerns.

 Vice-chancellor Suranjan Das, who is set to resume office after a twomonth break, was the first to inform the state about the   decision. Das thanked the UGC for recognizing JU’s academic excellence. But he felt if additional financial assistance was forthcoming from Delhi, the scheme could have been fruitfully implemented. He did not favour the idea of introducing self-financing mode for initiating new and innovative courses for students—local and national—as it would violate the principles of equity and access. But he felt the university could take advantage of some aspects of the scheme, such as introduction of new courses without the concurrence of regulatory authorities, establishment of offshore campuses in collaboration with foreign institutes, and collaborate with foreign varsities .   faculty members can offer courses at the offshore campuses and the university should be able to mobilize financial resources by charging adequate fees from foreign students there. The university can admit foreign students, charging higher fees, but without reducing the space for students here.
  
  
 “We can start integrated courses or collaborate with industry partners without UGC concurrence. We can collaborate with IITs and IIMs. Even pharmacy department can tie up with medical colleges without clearance from regulatory bodies,” the VC said. There is now enough opportunity for the university to chart out its own courses and process for sustaining and enriching its academic excellence. Now the university would decide how to implement it, he said.
 
 The VC made it clear it was the university community, and not the administration, that had to decide if the institute wished to utilize some of the positive aspects of the scheme, but certainly without imposing any financial burden on local students or reducing the scope of their entry to the main campus. But he felt the scheme did not automatically imply self-financing as the dominant mode of teaching-learning process. He added there was nothing in the scheme to suggest that an autonomous university would not continue to receive the normal grants from the Centre and state. It is, however, categorical on the point that central financial assistance will not be available for the introduction of new courses. It would certainly have been better if central assistance could have been available in this realm, he said.
 
 Asenior professor pointed out that a differential pay structure for faculty members could be proposed but it was not feasible in the existing JU system. “It being a state-run institute, JU has to be bound by state rules for finances,” the professor said. “Had the Centre allotted additional grant, this status could have been implemented much better. JU can plan certificate courses and joint programmes with foreign faculty. The joint research supervision with foreign scholars, based on university rules, can be initiated,” he said. This could also mean the courses taught by foreign faculties needed an in-built fee.
 
 JUTA vice-president Partha Pratim Biswas, however, felt when an university was a Centre of Excellence, awarding autonomy meant allowing academic and financial autonomy, along with accountability on government’s behalf. “Autonomy without government accountability is meaningless. We will have to excel without government support,”   said. The anxieties echoed among others. “Hiring foreign teachers or enhancement of salaries for new centre is a precondition for further excellence by autonomous bodies. But the money will have to be mobilized from the courses. This may compromise quality ,” feared a teacher at the science faculty.
 
 An English PG II student, Ankur Prasad, said, “I fear this may stop research project funds.”
 
