Mangaluru: After getting a musical fountain and other amenities, the city’s largest lung-space - Kadri Park- will soon be a ‘differently abled-friendly’ park. The exclusive corner, only for differently-abled, has been planned and soon, it will come up at a cost of Rs 40 lakh, according to Mangaluru City South MLA MLA J R Lobo.  Lobo said it will come up in one of the corners of Kadri Park. “The park's layout will be designed to provide easy access to the blind, hearing-impaired and wheelchair-bound people. Our focus is on differently-abled children as well as adults. The project for which funds are already earmarked, will be assigned to a consultancy, which has designed such differently-abled-friendly parks elsewhere in the country,” Lobo added. Though the city has lung-space, and Kadri park is one of the largest, it has no dedicated space for the differently-abled. Once it is commissioned, it will be the first-of-its kind park for the differently-abled in the district, said sources. Musical fountain fee yet to be decided Meanwhile, the Mangaluru Urban Development Authority is yet to fix an entry fee for the musical fountain with a laser show. Set up at the old deer park opposite Kadri Park in the heart of the city, the Rajiv Gandhi Musical Fountain was inaugurated by chief minister Siddaramaiah, who was on a district tour, on Sunday. Speaking about fixing of an entry fee, Lobo said currently they have not come to a conclusion about the entry fee. “It will be fixed after a meeting with all officials, which will be held after a week. Till then, the park will be open to all,” he said, adding that the recently inaugurated facility is well-received by citizens. “Since the entire facility has a high maintenance cost, the authorities are mulling to form a society,” he said. Lobo explained that entry fee both for musical fountain and toy train is not sufficient for maintenance. “So through the help of the district administration, a society will be formed in Kadri Park. There are plans for pay and park facilities and to rent out the premises for various shops. The funds collected will be utilized for maintenance of the park, and it will become self-sustained.”