NEW DELHI:   has denied permission to the ‘Yuva Hunkaar Rally’ slated for Tuesday at   that was to be attended by Dalit leader and Gujarat MLA  , Assamese peasant leader Akhil Gogoi, and other youth leaders. But Mevani has threatened to march to the PMO with copies of the Constitution and the Manusmriti. 

 Police say that Mevani and others would be stopped from reaching Parliament Street as the area is already under tight security due to  . Sources said the police were expecting over 10,000 people to gather around Parliament Street, which would have choked most of Lutyens’ Delhi during the rush hour. Delhi Police spokesperson Dependra Pathak said force would be deployed to stop protesters from entering the high-security zones. Some metro stations may be shut too. Police said legal action would be taken against Mevani and others if they went ahead with the rally. 
 
 Mevani said in a tweet on Monday evening that rumours were being spread against him and about the rally being cancelled to mislead the people supposed to attend it. He said efforts were being made to tarnish his image before his supporters
 
 Last week, Mumbai police had cancelled a students’ event at Ville Parle that was to be attended by Mevani and JNU student leader Umar Khalid after both of them were accused of making inflammatory speeches that had triggered violence. Mevani and the youth leaders have also demanded the release of Dalit leader Chandrashekar Azad Ravan who was arrested in UP. 
 
 Meanwhile, hoardings came up all over the capital with a message that sounded like an announcement for some WWE contest between two men of muscle. Bollywood filmmaker and activist Vivek Agnihotri challenged Mevani to an “open debate” at the Constitution Club on Tuesday. He was, however, rebuffed.
 
 “Who’s Vivek Agnihotri? Such invitations are nothing but tricks to gain cheap popularity. If he wants to get into politics, he should contest elections,” said Nadeem Khan, a member of Mevani’s team. Agnihotri described Mevani as Rahul Gandhi’s new poster boy and an “urban Naxal”. Interestingly, the director of Buddha in a Traffic Jam is also coming out with a book that is titled ‘Urban Naxal’. In a tweet, Agnihotri said, “If you are a man of convictions, you won’t shy away! See you at 3 pm on 9 Jan at the Constitution Club. Pl confirm latest by 6 pm on 8 Jan.” By 8 pm, the tweet had got 6,000 likes, 4,600 retweets and 683 replies. Agnihotri has 7,68,000 Twitter followers.
 
 
