INDORE: If experts are to be believed, the   who are expecting there board results in the month of May, might have to wait a little longer this year.

 With the change in   pattern by the   for error-free assessment of board answer sheets, the process has become time consuming compared to previous years.
 
 The evaluators checking hundreds of answer sheets in the city daily hinted towards the delay of result announcement this year owing to the exercise of involving two evaluators to evaluate one answer sheet at a time.
 
 “No doubt the change in evaluation process is a good move. But the process has become time taking now compared to previous years. Thus, there are chances of the board results getting delayed this year,” said an evaluator from the city on the condition of anonymity.
 
 The evaluators said that this year the examiners are dedicating more time on one copy, while earlier two copies were evaluated in the same time.
 
 Apart from evaluating the answer sheet, the total marks are also tallied by both the evaluators and then cross-checked by the assistant head examiner (AHE).
 
 The AHE then submits the final marks to the head examiner who uploads the marks on CBSE’s portal. This three-tier system has been put in place to ensure error-free assessment of answer sheets.
 
 The educationists from the city are worried about the board   affecting college admission further for students.
 
 “Though the colleges in Indore and state start their admission process quite late after the board results are announced. But the admission process begins early by other renowned universities where admission depends on the board marks. If CBSE delays the results the universities will also have to delay their admission process accordingly,” said Avinash Mishra, an entrance exam expert from the city.
 
 The answer sheets are being evaluated at different centres in the state and hundreds of teachers from the city are engaged in the process. The evaluation process in the city is going on at over four centres.
 
 CBSE mostly announces the board results after May 20 according to previous trends. 
 
