CHANDIGARH: The   government has come up with new rules for issuance of sports gradation certificate to ensure that only eligible and bonafide sportspersons get jobs in the state. Sports gradation certificate, to be issued for different categories of sports, entitles one to government jobs.

 Any sportsperson playing for Haryana at national level or one who is a domicile of Haryana and does not represent any other state or UT, would be eligible for sports gradation certificate.
 
 As per the new rules, only the director of sports and district sports and youth affairs officer (DSYAO) would be the joint sanctioning authority to grade players to be considered for all group A and B posts. Similarly, DSAYO would be the sanctioning authority for all group C and D posts.
 
 The sportsperson would submit an application on prescribed form (in duplicate) and the sanctioning authority would check the originals of all supporting documents and retain one copy with all self-attested supporting documents in his official record.
 
 The new rule would put an end on forged gradation certificates, which were earlier issued even to those who had played at district level, recognized by the district sports and youth affairs officer.
 
 Now, only such sports and games as are included in Haryana sports policy would be covered.
 
 The tournaments have been categorized in decreasing order of level of competitive difficulty. For example, category I would include Olympics and paralympics while category II would include four-year world championships (only for sports disciplines included in Olympics/paralympics) organized by international federations of the games recognized by the   (IOC) and International Paralympic Committee (IPC). Category III would include Asian Games, Para Asian Games and Youth Olympics organized by the Olympic Council of Asia, Asian Paralympic Committee, and IOC.
 
 Category IV would include Commonwealth Games and Commonwealth Games (Para Athletes) organised by the Commonwealth Games Federation, and Youth Asian Games organized by the Olympic Council of Asia. A total 12 categories have been defined and the gradation certification would be issued depending upon the type of game played by the applicant seeking gradation certification.
 
 The new rules have also made it clear that in case of team game, the sportsperson should have been an active player, that is, he should have played in not less than 25% of the games played by the team in the tournament. A player kept as reserve would not be considered as active player in that game. A sub-junior tournament, except national school games and Khelo India, would be would not be eligible to get gradation certificate.
 
 Haryana principal secretary (sports and youth affairs)   said the policy would eliminate the scope of forged gradation certificates and is in larger interest of real sportspersons.
 
 
