BENGALURU: ‘Be a   and Make Namma Bengaluru Clean Bengaluru’ was the catchline in BBMP’s advertisement, inviting citizens to enrol as Shuchi Mitras (Friends of Cleanliness) in their neighborhood.

 Some citizens came forward voluntarily, but the project didn’t elicit the expected response and it did not see the light of day. A citizen willing to be a Shuchi Mitra has to give details like name, address, contact number, email id, zone, ward and block where she lives.
 
 West Bengalureans on Saturday emphasized the need for Shuchi Mitras in streamlining solid waste management.
 
 Asserting that they would like to be included in the Palike’s solid waste management plans, citizens questioned why BBMP’s Shuchi Mitra programme, which empowered regular citizens to monitor segregation and collection of waste in their respective wards, failed to take off.
 
 “Many of us signed up to be Shuchi Mitras, hoping to monitor waste management practices, but the programme seems to have just died out,” said Aparna Desraj Urs, a resident of Malleswaram.
 
 Pointing out how vacant plots of land were being turned into dumpyards,  , president of  , said, “Garbage, including offal, is being dumped in an empty plot of land in Malleswaram. Both the   and SWR say the land belongs to the other, but it’s the residents who are suffering. The smell is so strong that we can’t even open our windows, and people are even thinking about shifting out.”
 
 The citizens also demanded that the Palike remove illegal flex boards and banners, inform them where exactly the waste they were generating is going, and maintain and build more public toilets.
 
 Dr Bhanu Prakash, a resident of  , said online companies need to be regularly monitored as they generated tonnes of waste, including plastic. He also asked the Palike to consider the imposition of an environmental tax on such companies.
 
 Another resident asked Bescom and BBMP to ensure old cables were properly disposed of. "Whenever new cables are laid, the old ones are just left lying on the road, or dangling on trees. This should be stopped immediately,” he said.
 
