KOCHI: Actor   is likely to move court  , including visuals of the crime, in the actress rape case. Sources close to the defence counsel of Dileep said that they are yet to file a petition in this regard but would do so in the next sitting. 

 The planned move comes in the backdrop of the investigation getting completed and the   being filed. "The case is set to go to the trail stages and the defence in entitled to have the copy of evidences to retort them. The move is as per procedure," said a source.
 
 Meanwhile, the prosecution is expected to oppose the plea in court. Sources with the prosecution said that a plea requesting a copy of the visuals of the crime will be strenuously opposed in court.
 
 "The accused in the case were the ones behind leaking the chargesheet in the case. The accused are now trying to get the visuals so that they can spread it among the public so as to harass the survivor," said the source.
 
 Special investigation team sources said that the accused is trying to highjack the case. "The visuals are a sensitive piece of evidence. If handed over to the accused, then there is a very high chance of the accused using it for their own advantage," said an officer.
 
 Dileep has been listed as the eighth accused in the chargesheet. The   in the case,  , received a copy of the chargesheet on Monday.
 
 Meanwhile, the Angamaly judicial first class magistrate court will deliver its verdict on Dileep's complaint regarding the chargesheet on January 9.
 
 Dileep, accused of conspiring with Pulsar Suni in the case, had approached the court seeking explanation from the police team about the leakage of contents in the chargesheet. The actor's counsel had told the court that the chargesheet leaking at such an early stage would affect the trial.
 
 The prosecution had denied the accused's allegation in court and blamed the actor himself for the leak.
 
 The controversial case began on the night of February 17, 2017 with an actor being sexually assaulted and videographed in a moving vehicle. The case saw several sharp turns, eventually leading to the arrest of Dileep for conspiracy. Police also arrested Pulsar Suni amid high drama in a court where he had come to surrender.
 
 
