NAVI MUMBAI: The state road development agency’s proposal to cut travel time on the   by 25 minutes by creating a 13.3km ‘missing link’ seems to be on track. 

 On Tuesday, the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation ( ), through its consultant, submitted the nearly 75-hectare forest diversion proposal to the Alibaug deputy conservator of forests (DCF) to create the ‘missing link’ from   through an interchange to   at the Pune-end. There’s an interchange at Kusgaon too. The consultant will submit the proposal to the Pune DCF on Wednesday.
 
  
  
 
 The proposal has to be cleared by the Union ministry of environment and forests for the MSRDC to begin construction of the alternative route that involves viaducts and tunnels for the Rs 5,000-crore infrastructure project to enhance connectivity between Mumbai and Pune. “The diversion is for both viaducts and tunnels to be constructed at the two ends of the new alignment. Even the tunnels that would run below the   required clearance,” the consultant said. The work is expected to be completed by 2021, said state officials. 
 
 The process of identifying forest land required for the project at the two ends of the stretch—in Raigad and Pune districts—began in July-August 2017, but was resolved only in February this year. An approximately 5-hectare forest land on the border of Raigad and Pune was the contentious issue. The matter was sorted out by a joint measurement survey by the MSRDC, revenue department and forest department in February and subsequently, the collectors of Raigad and Pune issued the Forest Rights Act certificate, which staes that there are no tribal rights on the said land.
 
 The consultant appointed by the MSRDC then prepared the forest diversion proposal, which will be cleared by the Alibaug and Pune DCFs and then forwarded to the Pune chief conservator of forests, who will finally sent it to the principal chief conservator of forest (PCCF) in Nagpur. Thereafter, the proposal will be forwarded to Mantralaya, then to the PCCF (MoEF) Nagpur, finally to the MoEF in New Delhi for the final nod.
 
 The entire process could take two months, said MSRDC officials. Currently, 16 companies—eight each in two packages—are in the process of filing their finance proposal for the project. All of them had cleared the qualification bid. The finance bid closure, in which two companies will be selected from each package, is likely to coincide with the green nod clearance around July, following which the work order will be issued.
 
 The project model will be engineering-procurement-construction and funding will be arranged from financial institutions as debt. MSRDC will pledge the toll collection rights from 2030 to 2045 to the financial instiutions for the debt that it will arrange for the project.
 
 
