NEW DELHI: Days after the Centre introduced   for   aged  , the Delhi   has asked what kind of   went behind the decision to issue an  .

 “Did you carry out any study, any scientific assessment that death penalty is a deterrent to rape? Have you thought of the consequences to the victim? How many offenders would allow their victims to survive now that rape and murder have the same punishment,” a bench of Acting Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice C Hari Shankar said, questioning the Centre’s counsel. The court also wondered if any views were taken from victims on what they want.
 
 HC’s poser came while hearing a pending PIL challenging the 2013 Criminal Law (Amendment) Act that had introduced stringent provisions in cases of rape, taking away discretion of courts to award lesser penalty.
 
 The bench underlined that the government was “not even looking at the root cause” or “educating people” as the offenders are often found to be below the age of 18 years. In a majority of the cases, the perpetrator is someone from the family or known to them.
 
 The oral observations by the bench came after it was informed about the recent ordinance during the hearing of the PIL. The petitioners have challenged the amendments made in the anti-rape law following the uproar over the December 16, 2012 gang rape of a 23-year-old woman in the national capital.
 
 President Ram Nath Kovind promulgated The Criminal Law (Amendment) Ordinance, 2018, which amends Indian Penal Code, Indian Evidence Act, Code of Criminal Procedure and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.
 
 The ordinance proposes stringent punishments, ranging from a minimum of 20 years to life term or death for rape of girls under the age of 12 years. For victims less than 16 years and more than 12 years, the ordinance has increased the minimum punishment from 10 years to 20 years and the maximum has been set at imprisonment for the rest of the convict’s life.
 
 The minimum punishment in case of rape of women has been increased from rigorous imprisonment of seven years to 10 years, extendable to life imprisonment.
 
 
