MADURAI: Welfare measures to the tune of Rs 45.53 lakh were distributed to 300 people at the 69th Republic Day function attended by senior officials including district collector K   held at the   police ground.

  Patriotic fervour and gaiety marked the celebrations as heads of various state and central government departments, schools and colleges hoisted the tricolor and distributed sweets.
 
 Accompanied by district superintendent of police N Manivannan, collector Veera Raghava Rao accepted the guard of honour and hoisted the national flag.
 
  Senior police officers like city police commissioner   and Madurai range deputy inspector general of police Pradip Kumar also took part. The Chief Minister’s Medal was disbursed to 125 police personnel and officers including 82 from the city unit and 43 from rural unit.
 
 Similarly, 187 people selected from various departments were given away awards and certifications. Freedom fighters invited for the occasion were adorned with shawls as a mark of respect. Cultural programs involving as many as 879 students from various schools were also held. Welfare benefits and awards were distributed to the officials and police officers at the functions in Theni, Dindigul, Ramanathapuram and Virudhunagar which were attended by the respective collectors and district police superintendents.
 
 At  , where the Madurai civic corporation functions, commissioner Aneesh Sekhar distributed cash awards to the students of corporation-run schools who secured the first three places in tenth and plus two examinations last year. In all, 173 students who secured centum were also given cash awards. 
 
 Similarly, those who won various competitions were awarded. 
 
 At the function held in Madurai airport, director V V Rao hoisted the national flag and distributed sweets. Central industrial security force personnel showcased their skills in bomb detection, disposal as well as assembling and disassembling guns blindfolded. 
 
 The airport was decked up beautifully with elaborate arrangement of serial lights for the occasion.
 
 Divisional railway manager Neenu Ittyerah took part in the celebration organised by the railways. She said that up to December 2017 the gross earnings of southern railway was Rs 5,422 crore. 
 
 They have been operating 63 per cent more number of trains this year compared to last year and were planning 270 more special trains. 
 
 In Madurai Kamaraj University, vice-chancellor P P   took part in the function on the university premises and distributed prizes to students.
 
 
