HYDERABAD: Cyberabad police have secured vital leads in the eight-month pregnant woman’s murder case from CCTV camera footage. Footage gathered from cameras installed at Siddique Nagar near Botanical Garden provided a much-needed clue, which may lead to arrest of the culprits.

 After struggling to get any useful leads from CCTV camera footage near Botanical Gardens at Kondapur, police increased their search area and finally stumbled upon a biker and a woman pillion rider, who had a black backpack, carrying something heavy towards Botanical Garden in the early hours of January 29.
 
 “We had initially checked the CCTV footage near the Botanical Gardens for the intervening night of January 29 and 30 and questioned a few car owners, whose vehicles were found passing by Botanical Gardens. However, we discovered that they were innocent. Later, we widened our search to include the intervening night of January 28 and 29 and other vehicles,” a police official, who is part of the murder investigation, told TOI.
 
 Police later identified a biker on a   (AP10AL 9947) with a woman pillion rider carrying something heavy from Siddique Nagar towards Botanical Gardens at 3.35am. The bike later stopped for eight seconds near Botanical Gardens before going towards Sri Ram Nagar Colony. The same bike was spotted a few minutes before with the woman pillion rider carrying a sack at Sri Sai Nilayam camera in Siddique Nagar and a camera near the mosque.
 
 At 3.48 am, the couple was spotted on the bike at   on the Botanical Garden-Masjid Banda stretch. At 3.57 near Radisson hotel in Gachibowli, without a sack. The rider was wearing a blue Tshirt and a helmet. The woman pillion rider wore a pink or saffron salwar kameez. In some CCTV grabs, she appears to have covered her head with a stole, while in some it appeared as if she was also wearing a helmet.
 
 Cops then checked registration details of the bike and found that it was registered in the name of one Vijay  , a resident of Boudha Nagar in Secunderabad. Police then met Vijay Kumar and he reportedly informed them that he sold the bike in 2015.
 
 There were eight pending traffic challans against the bike between 2014 and 2017. The owner of the bike has to pay Rs 1,345 fine. Four offences committed in 2014 were recorded at   traffic PS for wrong side driving, while the rest of the offences were recorded at Marredpally, Uppal, Miyapur for wrong parking, driving without a helmet and wrong side driving.
 
 “The last two traffic offences were recorded at Miyapur labour adda and the offender was riding wearing a monkey cap,” a police source said.
 
