NAGPUR: Even though the education sector is booming in Nagpur with multiple new schools seeking affiliation to both CBSE and state board opening up each year, there seem to be hardly any takers for  . There are just four schools affiliated to Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) in Nagpur district as compared to over 3,500 of state board and almost 100 of CBSE. 

 Two new schools, which are yet to reach Std X, will be seeking affiliation to ICSE but even then the numbers are skewed. In contrast to Nagpur, the medium is a top   in Mumbai where all big brands are under the Council’s umbrella. 
 
 Senior academician and co-founder of Modern School Neeru Kapai feels the absence of ICSE has not affected the quality of education that Nagpur provides “as there is no dearth of CBSE schools with good facilities”. “There is no compromise on the quality of of education as Nagpur is catering to all varieties of people. People were stuck to state board for so many years and it’s only now that they have accepted CBSE schools. The concept of ICSE too will take time to be accepted,” she said.
 
 According to Kana Roy Choudhary, former principal of Centre Point School, if there were an equal number of CBSE and ICSE schools, “they would’ve been as popular”. “It is the lack of awareness on the board’s part that sees fewer admissions in ICSE. Maybe people are still waiting for big brands which have a good record in metro cities. I feel that the percentage obtained by ICSE students is slightly less that than that of CBSE, which maybe due to the difficulty level,” she said. 
 
 State board academicians too feel ICSE has not been promoted properly in city. Uma Bhalerao, principal of MKH Sancheti Public School, said, “People haven’t come to know the advantages of ICSE board. Once a big brand comes with a good ICSE school, everything will change.” 
 
 The syllabus and paper pattern of ICSE is very different from CBSE, according to Sunita Roy, former principal of Dinanath School. “Maybe people are not taking up ICSE as they are clueless about the medium. Moreover, once a child is admitted in a particular school in nursery he comes out only after passing Std X. Parents are not keen to change schools or mediums.” 
 
 
