PATNA:   (PU) has directed its college principals to set up help desks in their respective institutions for facilitating online submission of application forms and fees by admission aspirants.

 The help desks will be manned by students and faculty members of the BCA course. The move has been initiated in view of the complaints by a section of students about difficulties in filling up their forms last year. 
 
 The PU admissions went completely online in 2017. It had left many parents and students hassled as cybercafes charged a handsome amount for filling up each form. There were also complaints that certain cybercafes missed a few points in the forms as their owners were in a hurry to entertain maximum customers. Quite a few students could not be admitted to PU colleges owing to reported irregularities in filling up of forms. 
 
 PU registrar Rabindra Kumar said details of admission process would be uploaded to PU website on April 3 and the online submission of forms for admission to different undergraduate courses would commence on April 9. The last date for submission of forms is May 14. 
 
 The last date of admission to all the courses is July 9. Induction meet of the newly admitted students will be held between July 10 and 16, and the classes of the next academic session will begin on July 17.
 
 Admission to the undergraduate courses in different PU colleges is being made through faculty wise entrance tests for the last several years. This year, the entrance test for admission to BCom (honours) courses in both regular and self-financing modes will be held on May 28 and that for admission to BA (honours) course on May 29. The entrance test for admission to BSc (honours) course running in different PU colleges will be held on May 30. 
 
 PU is likely to introduce entrance test for admission to all its PG courses from the next session ( 2018-19). In all probability, PU is also likely to introduce choice-based credit system from the new academic session. A move is already on at Raj Bhawan to finalise the revised courses of studies at PG level under this system. 
 
 Tentatively, as per the programme released by PU, the entrance test for admission to MA, MSc and MCom courses under conventional mode will be held subject wise between May 19 and 21. The entrance test for MEd and LLM courses will be held on May 23 and 31 respectively.
 
 The institutions authorized to conduct entrance tests are   (BCom honours), Patna Women’s College (BA honours), Patna Science College (BSc honours course), department of education (MEd course), College of Arts and Crafts (Bachelor of Fine Art) and Department of Law ( LLM course).
 
 The PG departments and colleges have been authorized to conduct entrance tests for admission to their self-financing courses as per the test schedule finalized by PU. The entrance tests for most PG, undergraduate and PG diploma courses are likely to be completed by the end of May, said the registrar.
 
 All the colleges and PG departments have been directed to update their website and upload admission prospectus.
 
 
