MUMBAI: Outstanding   has touched Rs 82.06 lakh crore, recording a year-on-year growth of 11.1 per cent — the highest since February 2016. Bankers attribute the surge to a lower base following absence of credit offtake during demonetisation coupled with incipient recovery in demand for loans. 

 For the same period, non-food credit growth has touched almost 12 per cent — the highest since April 2015 — partly due to an increase in demonetisation. Non-food credit represents bank loans other than those advanced to   for grain procurement.
 
 Data released by the   showed that outstanding non-food bank credit stood at Rs 81.5 lakh crore, an increase of 11.96 per cent over the last 12 months. 
 
 Compared to this, outstanding bank deposits of Rs 109.97 crore were up only 4.5 per cent over the same period last year. The deposit growth rate was, however, higher than the preceding three fortnights.
  
 
 According to   chief economist Soumya Kanti Ghosh, there are signs of a pickup in the economy. 
 
 “The latest   (index of industrial production) numbers confirm that few of the manufacturing sectors are pushing growth rate up. These are sugar, cement, steel, commercial vehicles, passenger vehicles and two-wheelers. Numbers suggest that some sectors are actually showing green shoots,” Ghosh pointed out.
 
 “While some element of the base effect may be there, I believe that there is traction in terms of growth momentum. For instance, the SBI composite index shows that industrial production for December 2017 is also likely to come out strong,” said Ghosh.
 
 Some bankers say that the surge in yields in end-December could have resulted in some corporates shifting to the loan market from money market instruments. In 2017, a large chunk of funding came from money market instruments like commercial paper and short-term bonds. The rise in bond yields is seen as a pointer to hardening interest rates.
 
 Ghosh, however, rules out a rate hike by the central bank. “I don’t think that rate hike is an overarching feature. Economic growth is at an incipient stage and inflation is still under control,” he said.
 
 
