MUMBAI: Getting to work every day is one of the riskiest things you do in the country’s financial capital. On an average, between 2012 and 2016, about 3,400 people died every year while commuting by Mumbai’s  . This means Mumbai’s so called “lifeline” takes, on an average, nine lives every day. And almost all of them during the peak hours, say railway police.

 These are men and women simply trying to get to work, to clock in their attendance on time. To ensure they aren’t marked “absent” for the day if they are late by a few minutes. Basically, to earn their daily bread.
 
 A red flag has been raised against this daily blood-letting. “Earning a living is not worth dying for,” screams a hoarding at Dadar TT flyover by The International Advertising Association (IAA). It is a reminder that despite the daily deaths, including recent tragedies like the Elphinstone bridge stampede that killed 23 people, lakhs continue to risk their lives in the absence of alleviating policies like flexi-work schemes to shift some load off the “crush hours”. Of the 75 lakh Mumbaikars taking the local every day, over 12 lakh do so in two 90-minute slots in the morning and evening .
 
 
  
 
 If the suburban rail infrastructure begs a transformation, so does the work culture at many organizations that operate in the city. Over two years ago, then railway minister Suresh Prabhu had suggested staggered work hours to Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis as a step to reduce the rush.
 
 Now, IAA’s India Chapter has undertaken a social initiative called ‘WorkToLiveToWork’. Spurred by a series of personal bereavements due to accidents on the suburban rail network in the last 18 months, Nandini Dias, managing committee member of IAA and CEO, Lodestar UM India, a media buying agency, has conceptualized the project which urges CEOs/HR heads to help implement flexible office timings for employees so that they don’t risk their lives to reach their workplaces.
 
 The campaign communicates simple measures that can end the irrational rigidity in Mumbai’s office timings, ease the rush hour and hopefully save lives. WorkToLiveToWork suggests that employees be allowed to choose their opening hours between8am and 11am and closing hours between 4pm and 7pm, while sticking to a definite set of “core” working hours from 11am to 4pm.
 
 “While the infrastructure catches up, it is imperative that all corporates think hard not only for their employees, but for all Mumbaikars. They must be willing to come forward and lend their help so that lives are saved,” said Dias.
 
 Flexi-work policies find favour among many big employers in the city. “One of my requests to my senior colleagues in human resources has been to constantly work on policies that are people-friendly. In the manufacturing sector, and especially among legacy conglomerates, RPG stands out for launching the flexi-timing policy, work-from-home policy. Each group company is at liberty to tweak the policy to an extent but the over-arching philosophy of trust must be respected,” said Harsh Goenka, chairman, RPG Enterprises, which has its offices in Mumbai.
 
 “Organizations can offer flexibility to employees who can choose to work from home or decide on how many days/hours they wish to be in office. This is possible as everyone is well connected today. I am not sure how it would work for the services industry, where rendering service at the point of contact is important, but I think having work shifts and staggered work timings is feasible for organizations,” said S V Nathan, chief talent officer, Deloitte India.
 
 A large number of companies in the organized sector offer flexi work options in some form or the other. But often they are not being implemented in their full scope. Dias said: “Currently a number of companies say they offer flexi timings. But the fact is that it is selective, based on the need of the individual and approved by the immediate senior. To decongest our transit system during rush hour, flexi timing has to go beyond the current method. It requires a culture change. Employees are currently nervous to opt for such policies as they feel that the organization will not view them favourably and they will lose out. To usher in such a culture, it will have to start from the top. Leaders’ demeanour and conversations will have to reflect acceptance of such a cultural shift.”
 
 
 
 
