MUMBAI: This is turning out to be a season of resignations for the   (MCA). The latest to bid goodbye to the cricket body, after former India batsman   (managing committee member),   (batting coach of the   Academy) and   (U-19 coach), is ex-India off-spinner   after he resigned as spin bowling coach.

 
 The 39-year-old, who played two Tests and 31 ODIs, put in his papers on Wednesday after a six month stint at the BKC facility. The retired tweaker said he was forced to take the step after being denied the opportunity to conduct a three-week camp in January for budding spinners.
 
 “There was no work to be done. There are a lot of protocols and technicalities in the MCA. I submitted a proposal (for a camp) in the first week of January. Now, we’re in the second week of February, but they never got back to me. I can’t just sit there and draw a salary from the MCA when I was supposed to help the spinners around,” Powar told TOI on Thursday.
 
 Describing why the camp was crucial for Mumbai’s upcoming spinners, Powar said: “One of the kids I wanted to work on was (Mumbai left-arm spinner) Karsh Kothari. A lot of commentators were saying that his head/body is falling over one side while bowling. He’s
 
 physically weak. He’s got weak legs and hips. I had observed it during the season and I wanted to address that. With the help of a bowling coach, physio and trainer, he would have become better.”
 
 It wasn’t just Kothari that Powar wanted to focus on. “I had made a note that I wanted to work more on left-arm spinner Sidak Singh’s action. Vijay Gohil (Mumbai left-arm spinner) wasn’t in form, and I wanted to work on his mental strength. It would have been a good exercise. I was thinking of merging the talent hunt camp with these spinners. It would have allowed us to gel and become a strong unit of 25 or 30 spinners. Mumbai cricket would have benefited,” he rued.
 
 He explained why it was critical to hold the camp in January.
 
 “The board exams were starting from the 21st. So our best chance was to have a camp for three weeks starting from January. However, things were moving so slowly that I couldn’t do anything, and if I'm not going to justify what I was appointed for and if I don’t have creative freedom, what’s the point of staying there,” he lamented.
 
 He said that he would have wanted the spinners to talk to his former Mumbai and India spin colleagues Nilesh Kulkarni and Sairaj Bahutule.
 
 Powar also alleged that the MCA worked “unprofessionally” at times. “There should be a system. They should have informed me that I have been assigned as the talent hunt coach (of the bowlers) for a camp from January 15 to 20 via a letter or a mail. Instead, I got a call from a clerk in the MCA, who told me that I need to report for the camp. He then went on to ask me whether I’ll bring my own car or should the MCA send one. Aghast at his query, I told him that I’ll get my car.”
 
 
