Nagpur: If you are a wildlife buff Chitnavis Centre’s is your go-to-place these days, as the venue is agog with 80 professionally captured beautiful photographs of Indian wildlife. Displayed as part of 8th Laxmikant (Raju) Harkare Memorial National Level Wildlife Photography Competition and Exhibition, the pictures show the strange, funny and raw moments of the life in wild. The exhibition, organized by Srushti Paryavaran Mandal, and open from 11am to 8pm, started on Tuesday and will go on till Wednesday. The 80 shortlisted pictures were chosen from around 600 submitted by 115 participants. From photos of Indian leopards lurking in the forests of Mumbai to a tiger hunting a deer in Ranthambore National Park, photos of all types were on display in the exhibition. Of these, four photos received top spots for being best clicks. Viraj Ghaisas from Badlapur won the first prize for capturing fireflies swarming in the night skies of Satara. Second prize was awarded to Pratik Pradhan also from Badlapur for his photo titled ‘Night Moves’. He clicked a long exposure photograph of a phantom crane fly while it was hanging from a stem making rapid leg movements. Third place was shared by Faizan Khan from Indore and Sitaram Raul from Badlapur. Khan’s photo titled ‘The Kill’ showed a black necked stork flying down to claim a little grebe as its prey on a lake in Keoladeo Ghana National Park, Rajasthan. Raul captured silhouettes of a garden lizard and a spider sitting on two blades of grass in the dark. Biology teacher and wildlife photographer Nayan Khanolkar was the judge of the competition this year. He said, “Being a teacher of biology and a photographer I have embarked on an endeavour to sensitize people to animal behaviour and create awareness on conservation of India’s rich wildlife heritage through my pictures.” Saurabh Tamne, member at Srushti informed that the exhibition-cum-competition is organized very year in honour of founding member of the organization and wildlife activist Harkare. “Unfortunately, he passed away at a very young age. Realizing the love he had for animals Srushti decided to conduct such events to keep his legacy alive,” he said. “The theme is strictly Indian wildlife but anyone with a knack for photography can participate in the competition. We also had on entry from an Australian man who was visiting the country,” said Tamne.