NEW DELHI:   is set to announce senior leader   as the president of its Madhya Pradesh unit, a decision that will seal the much delayed reshuffle designed to challenge the ruling BJP in end-year state elections.

 
 Sources said Kamal Nath’s name will be announced shortly along with a clutch of panels that will aim to bring all warring factions on board and present the picture of a united Congress. 
 
 Young leader and party chief whip in   Jyotiraditya   was vying with Nath for the top Congress job, a keen battle that apparently resulted in the decision being delayed by almost a year. Scindia also led the Congress charge in key bypolls that the party won.
 
 Scindia is likely to be named the chairman of the campaign committee while senior leader and former chief minister   would be the chairman of the coordination committee, sources said. 
 
  MP and senior lawyer Vivek Tankha may be the chairman of the manifesto committee. It is to be seen where and how the present PCC chief Arun Yadav, a former MP belonging to the strong OBC bloc, is adjusted.
 
 The announcement will ready the state leadership of Congress for end-year elections for which not much time is left given the factionalised state of party organisation in contrast to an entrenched election machine of BJP.   is serving his third term as chief minister while Congress has been out of power in the state for 15 years.
 
 Sources said what has worked in Nath’s favour is his seniority as well as the fact that he has been backed by a key pole of the factionalised unit — Digvijaya Singh. The PCC chief gets the automatic projection as chief ministerial candidate.
 
 Congress believes that it has a good chance of returning to power in its erstwhile fort where it was ousted in December 2003 after Digvijaya Singh’s second tenure as CM. The party believes that anti-incumbency was proving a serious handicap for Chouhan government which was evident in Congress’s repeated victories in bypolls.
 
 However, party managers have been worried that factionalism could again prove to be its undoing in the sprawling central state. It is now expected that with key poles coming together in selecting a new PCC chief, the party would be able to put up a united fight against BJP.
 
