GURUGRAM: A first-year interior design student was assaulted while his mother was allegedly molested and heckled by a group of senior students on the campus of GD   off   on Monday. Police said the woman was admitted to the Civil Hospital after she complained of chest pain. 

 Based on a complaint from her, an FIR was filed against six fourth-year students of the university on charges of assault and sexual harassment. Police officers said they had acted on the complaint and were clueless about the motive behind the attack.
 
 Around 3.30pm on Monday, the first-year student of B.Design was working on a big model of a haunted house built on a ground inside the university premises as part of a project with his classmates when some fourth-year engineering students came there and enquired about the huge structure. His mother, who had come from their home in Greater Noida to help him, was also there.
 
 The senior students allegedly tried to enter the haunted house (sources said it had a dimension of 60 feet by 60 feet) despite protests from the juniors, which triggered a heated argument between the two groups that snowballed into a brawl.
 
 In her complaint to the police, the woman alleged the senior students first assaulted her son and one of his friends. And when she tried to intervene, they molested and manhandled her. 
 
 Hearing their cry, some security personnel of the university rushed to the ground but the senior students managed to escape, she alleged. 
 
 Her son and his friend got some bruises and were released from Civil Hospital after first aid.
 
 "I had gone to help my son on the project. I paid a rent to the university for the area my son used for the haunted house model. But suddenly, some senior students came and created a brawl. I told them that I was like their mother but they misbehaved with me and assaulted me. Now, I am more worried about my son. How will I send my son to this university again?" she asked.
 
 Based on the complaint, an FIR has been filed against six students, three of whom have been identified, under sections 323 (causing hurt), 354A (sexual harassment), 506 (criminal intimidation), 34 (common intention) of the IPC at Sohna City police station. 
 
 "We have identified a few of them while efforts are on to identify other students involved in the brawl. We are conducting raids to nab all the accused," said sub-inspector Meena Devi, the investigating officer.
 
 The university did not comment or issue any statement.
 
