KOLKATA: The walls of Coffee House, Jadavpur University, Academy of Fine Arts and Minerva Theatre have been plastered with posters screaming warnings like “Big Brother is watching you” and “hope you haven’t indulged in thought crime”. Written in red ink, these lines stand out on posters made of newspapers. Few are aware that these are teasers of a forthcoming play that takes a dig at right-wing politics.

 
 Titled ‘1984?’, this Bengali play by   is an adaptation of George Orwell’s dystopian classic. Orwell’s play was set in a world where an intrusive government keeps a malevolently watchful eye on its citizens. By adapting it in contemporary India,   has questioned the motive and the operational method of the ruling dispensation.
 
 The Bengali play — enacted by 25 members of the theatre group Swapansandhani — talks about a new dictionary being written which obliterates existing phrases. “Today, history is being re-written by right-wing politicians. Our existing vocabulary doesn’t find its way into this new dictionary. As a result, whatever we are saying now will become redundant in future. Words such as ‘Mitron’ is therefore enjoying prominence,” Chattopadhyay said.
 
 The controversy regarding mandatory Aadhaar card becoming a surveillance and privacy disaster was Chattopadhyay’s springboard when he started his adaptation. To drive home the point about the control-tactics of the current political dispensation, the play refers to how there is no space for freedom of expression or even the choice to love freely. “Orwell’s play had referred to the ministry of love. I referred to the same concept. In my play, the Big Brother only wants everyone to love him ,” Chattopadhyay said.
 
 A voice-over by actor   says: “Thinking itself is now a crime.” Even Ritwik Ghatak’s name crops up in the dialogues. “I used his reference to suggest that today we are living in a country where free thought is a casualty,” Chattopadhyay said. References are made to author   and labour leader Shankar Guha Niyogi too.
 
