
 
 
 
 
 
 We have as many as 47 central universities in India (including DU, JNU, AMU, BHU, IGNOU etc) and each of them have their own admission norms that you can check in their respective websites. However, 10 Central universities (of Haryana, Jammu, Jharkhand, Kashmir, Karnataka, Kerala, Punjab, Rajasthan, South Bihar and Tamil Nadu) and the Bengaluru-based Dr   (an autonomous institute), jointly conduct   (Central Universities Common Entrance Test) to admit 10+2 students, bachelor degree holders and master degree holders to their UG/integrated programe/BVoc, postgraduate and research programmes. I am sure you have decided what course to opt for, since you have not mentioned your stream, the complete list of undergraduate and integrated programmes are listed here: BDesign, BA (International Relations),  , 4 year BPA (Music), BTech, 5 year Integrated MTech, 5 year Integrated MSc (Computer Science, Statistics, Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, Biotechnology, Biochemistry, Environmental Science, Zoology, Life Science, Microbiology, Botany), 5 year Integrated MSc Applied (Geography, Geology, Psychology), 5 year Integrated MSc (Psychology), 5 year Integrated MA (English), 5 year Integrated BALLB (Hons), 5 year Integrated MA/MSc (Economics).
 
 The   is the coordinating University for CUCET 2018 which will be held on April 28-29. The application deadline is April 26, 2018.
 
 
 
 
 
 In November last year, the Supreme Court asked the   to restrain deemed-to-be-universities from using the word 'University' in their title.
 
 Consequently, the UGC warned all of these 123 institutions (including Jamia Hamdard, IISc Bangalore, TERI, etc) with strong punitive action if they failed to do so. Most of these institutions were using the title of 'University' of their own accord.
 
 They were forbidden from using the term 'Deemed to be University' even in parenthesis because a status or title conferred by the UGC could not be part of the name of an institution.
 
 In the case of 14 institutions however, the government itself had erroneously referred to them as universities while granting them the status of a deemed-to-be university. So UGC asked them to suggest alternative names that did not contain the word 'university'.
 
 From what I gather, this move may affect the brand perception of these institutions and result in some confusion among students like you, but I don't think the validity of your degree will be affected by the change in nomenclature.
 
 However, I suggest you also check with the UGC directly to be doubly sure. There is no need to panic unduly. After all, lakhs of students are enrolled in these institutions. Besides, a notification to this effect is likely to be issued shortly. So let us wait and watch.
 
 
 
 
