PUNE: Police investigating the murder of property developer Deven   said the two men who shot him are real estate agents. 

 They suspect that the duo had an ongoing dispute with Shah for the past year about an increase in their commissions for a land parcel in   which they had secured for the developer.
 
 A police officer, associated with the ongoing probe, also confirmed that one of the suspects was in touch with a Mumbai-based underworld gang member but he refused to divulge any more details.
 
 Shah, who was into property sales, purchase and development of land, was shot at in the parking lot of his housing society `Sayali’ in lane 7 off   around 11.15pm on Saturday. He succumbed to the bullet injuries while under treatment in a private hospital. 
 
 On Sunday, police established the identity of both his assailants, based on the   footage retrieved from the scene of crime and with some help from a relative of one of the suspects.
 
 The Deccan Gymkhana police told TOI that both men were from   and have not returned to their homes since the crime. Police have questioned their family members who have claimed they have no knowledge about the duo’s whereabouts. 
 
 On Monday, additional commissioner of police (south region) Ravindra Sengaonkar, deputy commissioner of police (zone I)   and senior inspector   of Deccan Gymkhana police station reviewed the crime scene and examined the CCTV footage.
 
 The CCTV cameras placed in the parking area of the building captured the brazen attack on the developer in which the two men are spotted opening fire at the victim and then fleeing on a motorcycle.
 
 Police investigators said they appeared not much educated and were working as real estate agents in Pune city and in the district areas for commissions. 
 
 Police said the two were demanding enhanced commission from Shah and discussions were on. The property has been under litigation for several years and the two suspects had dealt with it. Shah and his associate then bought the land, police added.
 
 One of the assailants became a father three months ago. “ They may have been in need of money and, hence demanded enhanced commission from the developer,” a police officer said.
 
 
