CHANDIGARH: The suspected car, which was caught in the   footage belongs to a doctor residing in Sector 46. He had gone to Sector 44 to drop two of his friends on the day of the kidnapping. The car has a Ludhiana registration number, said police. However, police did not get any clue about the kidnappers even after the 24 hours of the incident.

 Police officers have said they have checked the CCTV cameras, which were stationed near the crime scene. But, they did not see any black colour   car in which the girl was allegedly kidnapped on Friday night. Police also checked the CCTV cameras of Sector 27, where the girl had alighted from the car and managed to free herself from the clutches of the goons. Sources said, no black SUV was spotted between 8.30pm to 9.30pm that day.
 
 Police have developed a suspicion over the story narrated by the girl, that she jumped out of the moving car. Although the car was not moving, she would have got some minor injuries, if done so. But, there was no such mark on her body. 
 
 Police said they would talk to the school teachers and friends of the girl on Monday and try to get an idea of the reason behind her story. However, police have registered an FIR against the three unknown persons under the sections of kidnapping and started probe. Counseller of the child helpline also said girl did not seem scared or traumatised after the incident. She was very calm and was narrating the incident very confidently. Earlier, the girl was saying that she was kidnapped in an SUV and now, she is saying that it was a Swift, source said.
 
 Girl’s father also said he did not have any enmity with anybody in his family and friends.
 
 On Friday night, the 11-year-old girl was allegedly kidnapped by three SUV-borne miscreants from outside her house in Sector 44 around 8.30pm. The girl told police that out of the three, two of them held her in the backseat. One of the accused held her legs and the other her head. Their faces were covered with a handkerchiefs, the girl said. She said the accused were discussing about ransom to be demanded from her father, when the vehicle stopped at the Sector 27 light point. Sensing an opportunity, the girl bit the hand of one of the accused and managed to free herself from their clutches. She jumped out of the SUV and called up her mother after borrowing a mobile phone from a woman passer-by. Her mother reached the spot within minutes and took her home by 9.45pm. Later, they informed police. 
 
 
