PATNA: Governor-cum-chancellor of universities   on Thursday said the decision to hold common entrance test for admission to BEd colleges was taken to discourage such colleges from admitting teacher aspirants through illegal means.

 “Most BEd colleges in the state are being run by politicians. These colleges are functioning like business entities,” Malik said while addressing the three-day youth festival – Indradhanush 2018 – which began at Anugrah Narayan College here.
 
 The governor expressed serious concern over decline in teaching standard in the state. “Training colleges admit students beyond their capacities. The admissions are being facilitated on the basis of recommendations. There are no takers for merit of the candidates. Introduction of common entrance test for admission to BEd colleges will end these malpractices,” he said.
 
 The Raj Bhavan has constituted a panel of vice-chancellors and academics to suggest ways to hold the common admission test for admission to BEd colleges.
 
 “Some people are against the holding of common entrance test. However, I will do what is in the best interests of the students. The common entrance test will ensure transparency in the admission process in teacher training colleges,” he said, adding the chancellor’s secretariat is in touch with the authorities concerned to regulate admission fee in BEd colleges. In Bihar, there are altogether 212 BEd colleges.
 
 Maintaining that there is no dearth of talent in Bihar, the governor said, “I’m sure that if India gets a big award in the field of education, it will be because of the students from Bihar.”
 
 The governor said colleges and universities in state have also been asked to install CCTV cameras and biometric attendance system for teachers and students. He asked the heads of colleges to take strict action against absentee teachers. “Extra-curricular activities should be given importance. Colleges should organise ‘Umang’ (annual cultural event) and ‘Tarang’ (annual sports event) without fail,” he said. 
 
 
