GURUGRAM: Over the next couple of months   has asked city developers to revert with details of old existing revenue roads that fall within their licensed areas, in a bid to resolve the problem of revenue roads that have become redundant.

  The notification came after the   department of urban local bodies introduced a mechanism for municipal corporations to   land marked as revenue roads lying with private develop-ers, in lieu of equal land of equal value.
 
 “We realised that a number of revenue roads under our jurisdiction were lying unutilised, as they fell within licensed colonies from the time they were acquired and sold by DTCP. With societies having come up on the surrounding land, these redundant revenue roads, owned by municipal corporations, now exist only on paper, though their value is very high,” said  , senior town planner, MCG.
 
 He added this led to the government introducing a mechanism for exchange of land of these revenue roads, which were originally carved out through villages as a way to the fields. 
 
 Builders will have to pay the price for the land as per current circle rates, or hand over to MCG an equal size of land of similar value in the same area or within municipal limits. In case the price of the land being offered in exchange is lower than the   land being acquired by the developer, the latter will have to compensate either with more land or pay the difference, said Chouhan.
 
 The land received in exchange will be used by MCG for public purposes, such as to set up sewage treatment plants. Once complete, the process will make it easier for the corporation to finish projects which are currently stuck due to lack of land availability.
 
 The exercise will not only benefit the corporation, but also help sort out differences between residents and developers in many colonies, where the latter has fraudulently marked this area as reserved for amenities, when in reality they couldn’t even use this land thus far.
 
 “In various cases, developers have portrayed these land parcels as parking areas or green spaces, when actually they are not entitled to that land,” said a source in the know of the matter. He added that once the land is exchanged by the corporation, the developer could use the land for purposes they have specified.
 
 
