KOCHI: The district conference of the  , which will begin on Monday, would introduce strategies for attracting more youth to the party. 

 No significant changes in the leadership of the party in the district is expected and P   may get yet another term as district secretary.
 
 Though there were speculations that Rajeeve, who may contest   elections would step down, sources close to the party ruled out any chances for that. 
 
 "The party leadership is learnt to have decided that Rajeeve should continue. So, there may not be any change in the leadership," sources with the party said.
 
 Issues regarding various corruption charges involving party leaders in the district are expected to come up for discussion at the conference.
 
  During the period after the last district conference, there were severe allegations against the   area secretary V A  . 
 
 The allegations were that   had interfered in business deals and disputes. 
 
 A businessman from Kochi had levelled charges that Zakir threatened him as he acted against his business interests. Later, the party district secretariat removed Zakir from the post .
 
  Zakir was arrested on the basis of the complaint by a businessman. But, he was soon released only to be returned to the post within a couple of months. There were allegations that the district leadership protected Zakir Husain.
 
 The conference would discuss strategies for attracting more youth to the party.
 
  "The members have increased in the past three years. Now the percentage of youth in the party has risen to 7.66% from 3.99% within three years," district secretary P Rajeeve said. "Various projects like palliative care, smooth conduct of   national conference etc have helped us in attracting more young blood to the party. The pro-development stand adopted by the party also is a contributing factor," Rajeeve said.
 
 The party has decided to go ahead with charity and pro-people projects.
 
  "We are constructing 30 houses for poor in connection with the party district conference. Our plan was to construct 22 houses so as to mark the 22nd conference. But, the number went up as some area committees expressed their willingness to construct more houses," Rajeeve said. 
 
 "Organic and integrated farming is another thing which helped us to reach out to the masses. We would be continuing all such projects in the years to come," he said.
 
 The conference will start with flag hoisting on Monday and party state secretary   will inaugurate the delegate meet at   on Tuesday at 9.30 am. The public meeting marking the culmination of the conference would be inaugurated by chief minister   on January 22.
 
 
