MUMBAI: Even as the overall HSC   in the state and city fell by merely around 1% this academic year, it was the arts   that took the hit with an almost 3% decrease in students who passed compared with the previous year. On the other hand, state-level success rate in the   stream rose by nearly 5%. 

 
 Among the three streams, the highest success rate was recorded by   students, almost 94.6% and 90.5% of whom passed in the state and Mumbai, respectively. Mithibai College principal Rajpal Hande said science students performed better than last year. “Not only is the success rate higher, even scores have improved.” Among the subjects in the science stream, success rate for physics rose from 92.6% to 94.2% and that for chemistry to 97% from 95%.
 
 Extra marks for students representing their district, state or country in tournaments have also led to high scores. 
 
 The vocational stream, though, lowered the   success rate by almost 4% at the state level and 3% in Mumbai.
 
 Success rate in arts, though, is as low as 73.4% in Mumbai division and 75.5% in the state. Though lower than the previous year, teachers said performance is only improving. “Students with better scores in Class X have also started opting for   and the performance has been improving since a few years. The success rate this year might be lower but only a few more students must have failed if you consider absolute numbers. At our college, out of the 25 results that we checked, 10 had scored more than 90%,” said Vidyadhar Joshi, vice-principal, VG Vaze College, Mulund. 
 
 Even as the commerce success rate rose, several colleges saw information technology drag down student scores. “We have seen disappointment in their percentage in IT,” said Shobhana Vasudevan, principal, Podar College.
 
 Meanwhile, success rate of regional languages such as Marathi, Tamil, Kannada and Gujarati saw a drop in Mumbai. This impacted the overall success rate of the Mumbai division.
 
 Ruia College principal Sucheta Ketkar said most of the 90% scorers from science have been historically opting for professional course, but a ilt towards pure sciences is the flavour of the season. 
 
 
