PUNE: A speeding   ran over a 26-year-old man riding a motorcycle near the slope of the Magarpatta flyover in Hadapsar around 7am on Wednesday. 

 The victim, Pravin Ambad, a resident of Siddharthnagar on NIBM Road in Kondhwa was working as an accountant in a private firm in Market Yard. He was not wearing a helmet. 
 
 
  
  
 
 “Ambad was on his way home from Magarpatta. He was on the service road when a truck descending the flyover brushed his vehicle and on impact Ambad came under its rear wheels. He sustained serious injuries and was taken to a private hospital. The doctors declared him dead. His body was handed over to his parents after autopsy at  ,” Hadapsar sub-inspector Manik Dokhe said.
 
 Truck driver Toufique Harun Shaikh (33) from Jalgaon was arrested for causing Ambad’s death due to negligence under the Indian Penal Code and Motor Vehicle Act. 
 
 Investigating officer sub-inspector Somnath Shendge said, “Shaikh said he stopped on hearing a loud noise from the rear wheel. He said he did not spot the  .”
 
 Ambad’s former boss Ganesh Jadhav, who is the complainant in the case, told TOI, “Ambad worked at my office for a year. He quit on March 8 and joined a private firm at Market Yard as an accounts officer. He came to my office to complete pending work on Tuesday night. He left early on Wednesday and was on his way home when he died. He was studying MBA externally. He was hard working.”
 
 His friend Nana Pawar said, “Ambad usually never left home without a helmet. Around 8.30pm on Tuesday, he left home hurriedly without it. His father got a call from a policeman and when we went to Sassoon hospital we found that he had died of multiple head injuries.”
 
 Pawar told TOI that Ambad had a love marriage and his wife was pregnant. He had bought a flat in Undri where the family was moving to in a fortnight. They had returned four days ago from a tour of Kerala.
 
 Ambad also distributed newspapers to housing societies on NIBM Road and other areas and cleaned vehicles at Salunke Vihar society.
 
 Traffic expert Mahadev Gawade said to curb accidents the slope of the flyover should be extended as drivers of heavy vehicles can control their speed while descending. 
 
 Activist Prashant Surse said, “This is the first time an   has happened near the flyover’s slope. Control over speed while descending is the only measure drivers of heavy vehicles should take to curb accidents.”
 
 The dangerous roads in this part of the city include stretches of Pune-Solapur highway, Pune-Saswad main road, Mantarwadi Phata to Katraj-Kondhwa bypass junction and Magarpatta Chowk to Kharadi bypass junction.
 
 
