MUMBAI: In one of the longest running trials in the city, a   magistrate court last week acquitted a taxi driver 45 years after being accused of assaulting truck drivers. The case against the second accused,  , who has been unavailable, will be tried separately. The court held that in the absence of relevant papers and testimony of only one of the witnesses, the accused   could not be found guilty. 

 "The original case papers including complaint copy, spot panchanama, medical papers are unavailable. Further even the chargesheet is in a torn condition," the court said. The court directed the police to submit a chargesheet against the other accused.
 
 The incident was alleged to have taken place on January 30, 1973, at Pydhonie. Cops alleged that at 4.30 pm a truck loaded with chappals had arrived at the spot and was to be unloaded. It was further stated that the acquitted accused was seated in the front seat of his taxi and the vehicle was parked at the entrance of the spot where the boxes were to be unloaded. The complainant and victim, Jaffar Hasan's nephew,  , asked the taxi driver to remove his vehicle as it was obstructing the path of the truck. 
 
 The police said that this had sparked an argument between the two. It was further alleged that the taxi driver abused   who in turn grabbed the accused by his collar. The taxi driver left the spot and allegedly threatened to teach him a lesson. 
 
 It was alleged that a little while later, the accused   and Abdul Kasam arrived at the spot armed with an iron pipe. It was further alleged that while the complainant and other truck drivers were off loading their trucks the accused argued with them and assaulted and injured Jameel and one other person Raees Ahmed. Cops arrived at the scene. 
 
 The victims were taken to JJ Hospital and the accused were later arrested. In April 1973, charges were framed against the accused and they pleaded not guilty. While only a medical officer deposed during the trial, key witnesses including the victim and eye witnesses did not depose. 
 
 Referring to the medical officer's testimony, the court said he was neither the doctor who had treated the victims nor was he in possession of their original medical papers.
 
 
