On  , a group of young theatre actors gathered at a mall in Sector 18 to express their undying love for Bollywood and pay a tribute to   on her 85th birthday. The actors of the theatre group, Actor Unveiled, brought alive the era of retro romance with their new play, Love Online – The Bollywood Café. The play, which was set in 2007, explored the ‘virtual love story’ between two Bollywood buffs – Yash (portrayed by Jalaj Agarwal) and Payal (portrayed by Aarohi Tyagi) – who chat through filmi dialogues and retro Bollywood numbers. 

  
  Varinder Saini with Deepti Chopra dancing on Aajkal Tere Mere Pyaar Ke Charche 
 
 Kanu Priya, director and writer of the play, said, "One of the biggest challenges was that most of these actors are working professionals. We created the play in just 14 days and rehearesed only during late evening or early morning hours. Also, creating Madhubala’s magic in 60 minutes wasn’t easy, but we tried our best. This was our first attempt at doing a romantic comedy, and we are thankful to Noida for making this show a success."
 
  
  (L-R) Ojaswini Gul, Varinder Saini and Arohi Tyagi in a scene from the play
 
 Ojaswini Gul, one of the actors and narrator of the play, told us, "Being the narrator, I really enjoyed doing some sher-o-shayari during the play. There were some beautiful lines which I cited at the opening of the play – Masoom Mohabbat Ka Bas Itna Fasana Hai, Kaghaz Ki Haveli Hai Barish Ka Zamana Hai, Kya Shart-E-Mohabbat Hai Kya Shart-E-Zamana Hai, Awaaz Bhi Zakhmi Hai Aur Geet Bhi Gaana Hai, Samjhay Ya Na Samjhay Woh Andaaz Mohabbat Ka, Ek Shakhs Ko Aankho Se Ek Sher Sunana Hai... while I enjoyed reciting these lines, it was difficult too to set the mood of the audience in the beginning of the play."
 She added, "Another challenge was recreating and reliving Madhubala’s work. For instance, I had to dance on the popular retro number, featuring Madhubala –   – which still echoes in the minds of the audience, and I am not that great a dancer, so I was nervous about it. But the audience kept humming the songs and cheered for us."
 Jalaj Agarwal, a software professional who works in Sector 59 and the lead actor of the play, said, "For me, playing a character who is so filmi, likes all things Bollywood and is a diehard romantic – something which is very different from my actual self – was one of the most exciting parts."
 Aarohi Tyagi, a resident of Sector 93 and the lead actress of the play, said, "This was my debut performance. What I really liked about the audience was that it was so receptive and kept applauding and cheering after every song and iconic dialogues." Akshay Sharma, a resident of Sector 45 and one of the audience members, said, "I had come to the mall for shopping with my wife and when I got to know about this play, which was a tribute to Madhubala, I immediately bought the tickets. My wife and I are Bollywood buffs and we totally enjoyed the play. It almost felt like we were watching a movie."
 
 --Aditi.Pancholi@timesgroup.com
 
 
  
 
 
