NAGPUR: With Prime Minister Narendra Modi preparing a road map for doubling farmers’ income by 2022, the Centre is considering how community forest rights (CFRs) under the Forest Rights Act 2006 can play a role in it.

 Now, researchers from Indian School of Business (ISB), Hyderabad, are working on Centre’s major research project — ‘Scaling up   recognition in India’ — and are studying successful CFR models in   and  . Maharashtra leads in the country by approving 6,524 titles towards distribution of 24.40 lakh acres of forest land.
 
 “We are studying Deori CFR model in Gondia led by Vidarbha Nature Conservation Society ( ) and Korchi in Gadchiroli hand-handled by Shrusti. ISB teams will also visit other states to build-up database. A policy brief will be prepared and submitted to the state and central governments for interventions,” said Ashwini Chhatre, associate professor with department of economics and public policy, ISB.
 
 Chhatre says in future farm land is not going to increase and hence alternative sources of income like bee-keeping, bamboo growing, tendu etc are sources which could help improve the lives of farmers.
 
 “CFR models in Gondia and Gadchiroli have shown the way by strengthening gram sabhas and empowering people. We will study how tendu, mahua, bamboo and other forest produce have improved the lives of people with additional income and how it could be further taken up to double the income,” Chhatre told TOI.
 
 “We will also compare areas protected under CFR from forest fires and non-CFR by satellite mapping and find whether granting more areas for tendu could improve forest protection and subsequently regeneration,” he said.
 
 A two-member ISB team, comprising   and Mrinalini Paul, was on a three-day visit to CFR villages in Deori tehsil from Wednesday and tried to find whether people could better manage forest under CFR from fires and other biotic pressures.
 
 With hand-handling by VNCS, 72 CFR villages — 42 in Deori and 30 in Sadak Arjuni tehsils in Gondia and nine in Armori in Gadchiroli — are working wonders by extracting tendu, mahua, hirda and behada. These villages have been granted 28,000 hectares forest area under CFR.
 
 “We started with just three villages in 2013 when sale was Rs 31.73 lakh. This year a cluster of 72 villages expects to get Rs8.40 crore from tendu patta collection in Gondia alone. More villages joined us as our concern was sustained livelihood coupled with forest conservation,” says Dilip Gode, executive director of VNCS.
 
 “Initially, as gram sabhas did not know CFR provisions and their powers, tendu traders exploited us by making fake promises. Today, villagers have formed group of gram sabhas and have been asserting for their rights by auctioning their own produce through tendering. VNCS has helped in marketing and technical aspects. We are getting more money than what forest department used to pay in the form of wages and bonus,” said Altaf Pathan (72) of Pauljhola.
 
 What Pathan says is true as in Gondia alone, 39,883 hectares of forest has been allotted under CFR through 467 titles but not many villages are asserting their rights.
 
 “While 7,000 hectares of territorial forest was gutted at the behest of tendu traders from Gondia, no fires were reported in CFR areas. There is no bush cutting, overextraction, thefts and entire money from tendu sale is transferred to stakeholders. Each family generates around Rs 50,000 income in the season,” says Motiram Sayam from Dhamditola.
 
 “The best part is the money is distributed ahead of sowing season and later before Diwali. We are marginal farmers and CFR has helped us improve our lives with supplementary income,” says Shewanta Kumeti, treasurer of group gram sabha.
 
 During the team’s visit to Mangatola-Dhamditola, TOI found that CFR has worked well with people, who have joined hands to protect water bodies and forest. Even in peak fire season, grass and bamboo plantations were intact in the forest. Once a drain, the gram sabha lake was brimming with water.
 
 “This has also increased water level of wells in nearby villages. Earlier, village women had to walk 3km to fetch water. VNCS helped us get Rs3 lakh fund under CSR to rejuvenate water bodies here,” recalls Tularam Uikey and Narayan Salame, president and secretary, respectively, of Deori gram sabha.
 
 “Before getting rights, when we saw fires in forest we used to simply ignore terming it as forest department’s job. Now not a single incident of fire goes unattended. There is a feeling of belongingness, there is also no poaching and illicit felling in our areas.   in all homes has also helped curb biotic pressure. Some money is also being spared for village development now,” says Gopal Kumeti, ex-sarpanch.
 
 A bamboo nursery has been developed with one lakh saplings in Mangatola. “Villagers planted 8,000 saplings last year to increase livelihood options through bamboo in future,” says Shriram Madavi of Mehtakheda.
 
 The two-member team too believed though encroachments on forest land is an issue, it felt that forest can be better managed by people under CFRs. “Deori model is one of the best as it integrates twin objectives of development and conservation,” said Chatterjee.
 
 WHY CFR IS BEING CONSIDERED
 
 * Maharashtra leads in the country with 6,524 titles towards distribution of 24.40 lakh acres forest
 
 * Mendha-Lekha in Gadchiroli was first in India to get CFR rights
 
 * The model was replicated elsewhere in the state
 
 * Deori model in Gondia and Gadchiroli model are being studied by other agencies in India
 
 * Apart from ISB, a team from Odisha visited Deori to study CFR success
 
 * Finance minister Arun Jaitley announced plan to double farmers’ income by 2022
 
 
