Delhi is all set for Holi. Colours have been bought,   have been ordered, and most importantly, post-Holi appointments have been made at cosmetic clinics/beauty salons. Celebrating   with organic or home-made colours might be ‘in’, but it seems like Delhiites are willing to spend time and money in beauty salons for treatments before and after Holi, rather than do away with colours. If the number of customers visiting salons for skin treatments immediately after Holi is anything to go by, then there are very few people in the city who celebrate with organic colours, say   owners and  . "Each year, there is around 20-25 % increase in the number of patients who come for treatment for skin rashes, irritation or for colour removal. We are not open on Holi, but customers start calling on the day of Holi, asking if we are open and if they can come in for treatment," says Preeti Seth, a cosmetologist who has her wellness center in west Delhi.

  
  Srishti Bhagat from Ramjas College shows us how colour-loving Delhiites would rather spend hours at the salon than give up their colours on Holi 
 
 
 
 While gulaal is "for the elders in the family", for the younger lot, Holi is not complete without gold, black, silver or magenta, and beauticians say that the last one is the trickiest and most difficult to remove. "In Delhi, most people still celebrate Holi with colours that do not come off after one wash or shower. People think that Holi celebrated with gulaal is too simple, and if there is a party, it has to have stronger colours. People who attend or host Holi parties, take appointments for pre-Holi sessions that include waxing, facial, etc, as well as post-Holi sessions, that include treatments according to the the damage done to the skin by all the colours," says beauty expert Ishika Taneja, who runs a chain of salons in Delhi. 
 Preeti adds that "more than 60% of people in Delhi still play Holi with chemical colours that are very harmful for the skin. Some people, despite knowing they have sensitive skin, do not want to give up playing Holi with chemical colours, and are instead okay with spending hours in the salon. They want to enjoy Holi and want to look perfect immediately after the celebrations."
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Celebrating Holi with colours might be fun, but getting back to work the next day with them still on your face, neck or nails, is not. While skin treatments are for those who suffer from skin irritation or abrasion, there are colour removal sessions as well, that include body exfoliation, manicure, pedicure, facials, peeling or body polishing. Meenakshi Dutt, beauty expert, says, "We already have reservations for two days after Holi, and all of them are for face cleansing, manicure, pedicure, hair spa and body exfoliation. People damage their skin a lot by playing with colours under the sun, so the skin needs treatment."
 For people suffering from acne, treatments involving lasers and peeling are also done to remove colour. Monica Kapoor, cosmetic surgeon and beauty expert, says, "There is an increase in the number of people who come before Holi for skin glow treatments and to get an even skin tone. The services include chemical peels, photofacials, permanent laser hair removal, body polishing, charcoal treatment, etc. It is advisable to use organic and natural colours to play Holi, but only 30-40% people actually use natural colours. It is because of chemical-based colours that the number of patients we get increases substantially after Holi. People mostly come for treatments for skin rash and allergy, scalp rash and irritation, patchy skin, sun damage, etc."
 Dipali Mathur Dayal, a beauty salon owner, says, "There is definitely an increase in demand for treatments that use red or brown algae, as they are high in minerals, vitamins and micronutrients that help in skin detoxification, remineralising and rebalancing. People have already taken appointments for full body wraps and body polishing treatments to get rid of residual colour after Holi."
 "Those who have hair colour have to go for hair treatment or spas, as the hair colour changes due to the effect of chemical colours. For removing colours from fingers and cuticles, manicure and pedicure sessions are needed," says Ishika.
 
  
  
 
 
 The money that you might have to spend on a post-Holi salon session depends on the salon or beauty clinic that you choose and the kind of treatment you need. The price of facials, manicures and pedicures starts from Rs. 500, and they are recommended only if the colour can be removed through face packs, scrubbing, etc. Packages including body exfoliation, body polishing, hair spa, etc, can cost Rs. 4,000-7,000, and if treatments involving laser or peeling are required for colour removal and skin repair, the price can easily cross Rs. 10,000. "The cost also depends on the number of sittings one requires. Usually, one session of three to four hours is enough, but getting colours out from cuticles might require two sittings sometimes. Also, if the hair colour has been damaged, then it might take more than one sitting," says Ishika.
 
  
  
 
