The summers have set in and enthusiastic swimmers have taken over pools of Jaipur. When it comes to kids, the city is witnessing a new trend – toddlers as young as one are being introduced to swimming by their parents. Swimming coaches tell us that such queries have increased manifold in the last few years and the concept of training toddlers to swim is quickly gaining popularity in the city.

 
 
 
 Jaipur-based swimming coach Shivraj Chandel says that he has received quite a few requests for swimming lessons for toddlers. He says, “While I recommend swimming lessons for all children aged four and above, in today’s time, parents want their children to learn new skills even earlier. Teaching a child, who is as young as one or two, to swim is a bit challenging. Thus, our main priority is to make them comfortable in the water. We play gentle games with them and teach them basic floating.” 
 
  
  Two-year-old Rudra Singh learning to swim in Jaipur (Shalini Maheshwari/BCCL)
 
 
 Shivraj, swimming coach at The Fitness Pro Gym and Swimming Club, adds, “I personally do not offer swimming lessons for more than 45 minutes at one go. It is because it can be difficult to keep children entertained for long.”
 
 ‘
 
 
 Himalini Solanki, owner of  , says that they offer swimming lessons for kids of two years and above. “We make them wear arm floats and the class is usually 45 minutes long. The swimming season has just started and I have already got a decent number of kids. But it is only in May and June that we get the maximum number of kids as they are on their summer breaks. For us, the safety of the child is of utmost importance. At a time, there are two-three swimming coaches inside the pool to train toddlers,” she says.
 
 
 
 
 Parents of these swimming prodigies say they are starting their kids early in the world of swimming as kids are better learners. Nikita Gandhi, a resident of Vaishali Nagar, who has gotten her two-year-old son enrolled for swimming classes, says, “Both of us, my husband and I, know how to swim. While we learned swimming quite late in our lives, we want our son to learn at this age as kids are very quick learners. This is a skill that everybody should acquire in order to be water-safe. It is also a great form of physical activity.”
 
  
  
 
 Shipra Malik, a resident of Maharani Farm, is planning to send her two-year-old daughter, Tisha, to swimming classes in the coming month. “She loves water. Whenever we go out on holidays, she enjoys being in the pool. So, I thought that in May, I will send her to swimming classes as it is always better to take lessons from a professional,” says Shipra, who has already purchased a swimming costume for her daughter.
 
 
 
 
 One of the challenges of getting toddlers enrolled in   is that the demand is much higher than the supply – most coaches are hesitant to train kids younger than four or five. Yogendra Chauhan, co-owner of   in Vaishali Nagar, tells us, “We have two pools – one for adults and the other one is for kids. The one for kids is three feet deep. We don’t entertain children shorter than three feet. You have to hold their hands and teach them how to float. It is a big responsibility. Children are at a greater risk in water and toddlers are most vulnerable. We do get a lot of enquiries from parents who want to enroll their kids as young as one or two but we simply say no to them.”
 
  
  
 
 Brijesh Saxena, owner of  , says that he doesn’t entertain children below four years of age. “Children below four years of age are more comfortable with their parents than coaches. Kids who are four and above understand the instructions of coaches better than toddlers. Also, toddlers are at higher risk in water,” he says.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
