Ludhiana: As Canadian Prime Minister Justin   is on a seven-day visit to India, two Ludhiana-born NRIs accompanying him as members of his business delegation say it is an honour for their birthplace, as they were included by the government in the delegation. Sherjang Singh Rana (46), president and CEO of Punjab Insurance Inc, and his wife Harpreet Rana (42) — both of whom belong to Ludhiana district — are reputed names in Canada’s insurance sector.

 Sherjang Rana said: “There are a 100 business persons accompanying the Canadian Prime Minister on his visit to India, and we are the lucky ones to be a part of the group. It is not only an honour for us, but also for Ludhiana, as we were born here. We came with him on February 17 to Mumbai, and then the next day, we visited Agra. Yesterday, we attended a function where reputed names from the Indian industry, including Tatas and Birlas, were present. In that function, Prime Minister Trudeau made a very positive statement about increasing the number of immigrants coming from India, which will immensely help Punjabis, who form the majority of those coming to Canada for work and education.” 
 
 He added: “Later, during our meeting with minister for Infrastructure and Communities, Amarjeet Sohi, we also sought the insurance of immigrants from countries on arrival, so that they don’t face problems later and add to the debt on the country.” He said they were looking forward to the next programme of Canada-India Business Council in New Delhi on Thursday, followed by a dinner with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union ministers, and MPs.
 
 Harpreet said though they had met Trudeau many times, being included by the government among delegates is a ‘dream come true’. She added that during the past few days, they had come to know him closely, and felt he is down-to-earth and meets everyone in a warm manner. “During the function with industry leaders in Mumbai, we were warmly greeted by him, and he even got pictures clicked with us. Welcoming him in the country we were born in is an amazing feeling, and we are hopeful he takes Canada-India relations, and also Canada-Punjab ties to new heights,” said Harpreet, who was in Amritsar with the delegation accompanying the Canadian Prime Minister. She added it was great to meet Brampton MP Raj Grewal, who belongs to the Lalton area of Ludhiana. The NRI couple also met Canadian defence minister Harjit Sajjan.
 
 The Ludhiana-born NRIs said that after the grand function in Mumbai on February 24, they would be coming to Ludhiana to meet their families.
 
 INDIA-CANADA CONNECTION
 
 Proud Ludhianvi Sherjang Singh Rana was born in Ludhiana and studied in a private school in the city, did graduation from Government College Ludhiana, and LLB from Maharshi Dayanand College, Sri Ganganagar. In 1996, he went to Canada, and in 2006, established the Punjab Insurance in Toronto.
 
 Sherjung’s wife Harpreet Kaur Rana is marketing director of Punjab Insurance. She too was born in Ludhiana and went to Canada in 2003. She did matriculation from Guru Nanak Public School, Sarabha Nagar; and MA from Khalsa College, Ludhiana.
 
 
