Tirunelveli: There were mixed responses to the state-wide bandh organised by DMK and its allies on Thursday to put pressure on the Centre to form the Cauvery Management Board (CMB) in Tirunelveli region. While, only 43% of the 11,000-odd shops were closed in rural Tirunelveli, around 60% shops in the city were shut. In the city DMK cadres led by Palayamkottai MLA T P M Mohideen Khan blocked the Tirunelveli-Nagercoil passenger train near Kurunthudaiyarpuram Bridge around 7.15 am. Talks conducted by the police for 45 minutes to pacify them failed, following which more than 110 people including 41 women were arrested. The protest affected the Tirunelveli–Tiruchendur Passenger, Chennai–Thiruvananthapuram Ananthapuri Express and Guruvayur–Chennai Express train services by an hour. Around 363 people from various political parties were arrested for disturbing rail traffic. A total of 801 people including 58 women were arrested for trying to block trains at Tenkasi, Sengottai, Kadayanallur and Ambasamudram. These were in addition to the arrest made of 1,058 people including 298 women for blocking roads at 11 places. Though Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) and private players operated buses as usual, the crowd was very less. There were no major incidents of violence in the district. In Tutitcorin, support to the bandh was minimal. While around 70% shops were closed till afternoon, the police said that only 23% shops were closed in the district, hours before the dawn to dusk bandh ended. In all, the district police arrested 1,676 protesters – including 197 women – for resorting to road blocking in 16 places and rail roko in five places. Contrarily in Kanyakumari, more than 85% shops were closed. However, buses plied as usual. Protesters led by MLAs S Austin, J G Prince and N Suresh Rajan were arrested for trying to picket the head post office in Nagercoil. MLA Rajesh Kumar was arrested at Killiyoor while MLA Mano Thangaraj was detained at Thuckalay. The police said that around 550 people were arrested for resorting to road blockades in nine places across the district. The windscreen of a government bus was damaged by miscreants by pelting stones at Kaliyakkavilai close to the Tamil Nadu–Kerala border. This created a flutter and affected inter-state traffic for some time.