Visakhapatnam: Eight households in the city have approached the police requesting installation of CCTV cameras at their houses as they would be out of the city for the Sankranti festival.

 All these households fall under the Anakapalle and Narsipatnam sub-divisions of Visakhapatnam (rural) police. The Visakhapatnam rural police provide   services to interested households free of cost through an official system called Locked House Monitoring System (LHMS). The LHMS system was launched by the police six months ago and it was the first-of-its-kind initiative across the state. 
 
 Confirming this to TOI, Visakhapatnam rural superintendent of police Rahul Dev Sarma said a total of eight households in the two police sub-divisions have sought the help of the police department in keeping an eye on their houses from any eventualities like burglaries and thefts during the absence of the family members. The system would also help the department in giving sufficient clues during the probe.
 
 “The LHMS system was introduced in their jurisdiction six months ago. A total of 128 people availed the CCTV camera protection service from the department so far. Now, eight people are taking it for this Sankranti. The service would be provided to the LHMS’s app subscriber. Currently, a total of 9,258 people have registered their names to avail the services of the app,” Sarma said.
 
 Sarma said the service is completely free of cost and the service seeker need not pay even a single rupee to the department. 
 
 The people who want the service will have to download the app on their smartphone as the next step. 
 
 Then, they have to register for the service in the app by giving all requisite information mentioned in the app. Once registration is done, the applicant can ask the police for the CCTV camera protection service through the app. 
 
 “Once we get information, we will send a constable to the house and install our CCTV camera with a battery back-up facility of six hours at a convenient location inside the house. The cameras are connected to our central server where our men closely monitor the CCTV footage. 
 
 
