PATNA: Governor-cum-chancellor Satya Pal Malik on Sunday congratulated the newly elected office-bearers and council members of Patna University Students’ Union ( ) and sought their cooperation in creating an environment conducive to the academic growth on the campus.

 Expressing his pleasure at the fair and peaceful conduct of PUSU election, he said those students who could not make it to the union should also cooperate in the developmental efforts.
 
 Malik congratulated PU vice-chancellor Rash Bihari Prasad and his team for conducting the PUSU election in a fair and peaceful manner and called upon other universities in the state to follow suit.
 
 PUSU election was held after more than five years and all other universities have started the process for the same following the initiative taken by Raj Bhavan. At a recent review meeting of the vice-chancellors, the chancellor directed the VCs to complete the process of union elections latest by March 31.
 
 Malik, a former Meerut College Students’ Union president, knows the union’s significant contribution to the academic development of a college or university and is very keen on each university having a duly elected students’ union. 
 
 Addressing the first interaction meeting with the VCs of the state universities, Malik had opined that universities must have duly elected students’ unions for redressal of genuine grievances of students and ensuring sound academic atmosphere on the campus. “If you have unions, you will have to hear genuine students. But, if you don’t have a union, you will have to listen to goondas and mawalis,” he had told the VCs. 
 
 Many universities in the state, including Veer Kunwar Singh University, Ara, Jaya Prakash University, Chhapra, and B N Mandal University, Madhepura, will have duly elected students’ unions for the first time since their inception.
 
 Even though the Patna University Act, 1976 and the Bihar State Universities Act, 1976 as amended up to date provide for holding election to the university students’ union every year, the universities had been evading it on one pretext or the other. But, following the recent directive of the chancellor, they are left with Hobson’s choice.
 
 
