KOLKATA: Post-poll violence continued unabated on Tuesday, increasing the death toll to 26 even as police started a crackdown in potential hotspots throughout the state.

 The cops indicated on Tuesday that the 571 polling booths which will go to poll again on Wednesday will be augmented by another armed personnel, apart from the usual security component. Senior officers, however, refused to speak. “We have no further comment to make,” said a senior officer. Police on Monday had claimed six persons had died of poll violence, while another six deaths were not related to the polls.
 
 
  
 The state government and the police have been asked to make elaborate security arrangements so that polling can be held in a free and fair manner, said a state election commission official.
 
 On the city’s fringes, a police crackdown led to the arrest of 28 people, mostly   supporters, for the violence in Jyangra. Several hundred people gathered at the New Town police station on Tuesday morning this morning to protest against the arrests. This led police to arrest four more persons, including BJP candidate Ajit Mondal. It wasn’t only about BJP protests, however. In Duttapukur, in the same district, police had to face stiff resistance when they went to arrest four Trinamool-turnedrebel leaders. The four were arrested on charges of instigating poll-day violence. Locals refused to allow the quartet being taken away for the time being. Additional cops were sent to bring the situation under control.
 
 Among the dead on Tuesday was a 45-year-old Habra resident who was intercepted by locals allegedly for not allowing people to vote and severely assaulted. Sushil Das succumbed to his injuries in the Barasat district hospital in the morning. A 45-year-old Trinamool supporter, the husband of a Trinamool candidate, was hacked to death in Baranberia village in Nadia’s Dhantala police station. Apart from these districts, deaths were reported from East Midnapore, North Dinajpur, South Dinajpur, South 24-Parganas, Malda and Cooch Behar.
 
 Post-poll violence was reported from parts of Howrah district, where bombs were hurled in at least 20 houses during a clash between Trinamool and BJP workers. A few vehicles were also vandalised and torched.
 
 
