KOLKATA: Chief minister   on Friday alleged that there was a threat to her life and “supari” killers had been engaged to eliminate her. They already did a recce of her Kalighat home, she claimed. Police were inquiring into it, said the chief minister.

 
 While stressing that she didn’t fear for her life, she also indicated that she had already handpicked her successors for the party and the administration.
 
 In an interview to a private television channel, also available on Facebook, Mamata said, “I have been repeatedly told by police to change my home... . I do not fear to die. I have been targeted several times in the past.” Saying she didn’t let such information bother her, the chief minister added, though she didn’t disclose this to her party or her family, she had already planned for any eventuality.
 
 The CM, who gets Z-plus protection, has always shunned additional security protocols and resisted moving out of her ancestral home. Her proximate security is tasked to some handpicked officers who have been with her since she was the railway minister. Hinting that the assassination plot was hatched by political conspirators, the chief minister said, “First, they go for character assassination. And after that, eliminates the person physically. Then they are the first to shed crocodile’s tears. There always will be conspirators. But I am not afraid of them.”
 
 The chief minister also launched an all-out attack against her political opponents in Bengal and even resented the way her administration has been subjected to media trial ahead of the Bengal panchayat polls. Dismissing opposition claims of 34% uncontested seats, the chief minister said, “When they say this, you also have to understand that even   could not put up a candidate in Belpahari. Why are you only citing the gram sabha figures? In zilla parishads and panchayat samitis, this figure is substantially low.”
 
 Arguing that this has more to do with the opposition’s failure to find candidates, she said, “50% of the seats in Bengal are reserved for women. In addition, you have seats reserved for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and other backward classes. This year, six more classes have been added to the OBC list. Add this up and one would find only one person fit to be candidate and all parties would be pleading to him to field him as a candidate. The dynamics of rural polls are very different.”
 
 On the legal setbacks over the panchayat polls, she said, “I will only say we respected the order passed by the division bench headed by the chief justice of  ... . While I have the greatest respect for the judiciary, I can have my reservations against certain judgments. These were politically interested litigations masquerading as PILs. Who are the people pleading in courts? These are politicians themselves.”
 
 
