Nagpur: Eight eminent people from   who had excelled in different fields were felicitated for extraordinary work in their respective fields on Saturday at Kusumtai Wankhede hall. The felicitation programme was organized by NGO   to honour people of national and international repute with Sarathi’s Scroll of Honour.

 People from fields of arts, culture, sports, business and special achievements were felicitated at the event. 16-year-old Malvika Bansode, badminton player from Vidarbha, was felicitated for her achievements in sports. “Sports persons must never feel bad for losing but they must take it as an opportunity to work double as hard,” she said while receiving the award.
 
 Kanchanmal Pande a blind international swimmer who had won several national and international awards, was also felicitated. “I started swimming since 2001 and till now I loved to work hard and win in the competition,” she said.
 
 Entrepreneurs and business persons from Vidarbha Sudarshan Shende, Vishal Agrawal and Sharmila Vali were felicitated for the outstanding work in the field of industry and commerce. All the entrepreneurs shared their experience while raising a business and difficulties they overcame while starting a new business.
 
 Renowned film director and writer Milind Ukey was felicitated was his contribution to art and culture. “Vidarbha has very talented artistes, in the coming years if a film industry will start here it will create a very good platform for our state,” he said.
 
 Eminent littérateur Usha Deshmukh was awarded for writing books in Marathi language. “Marathi literature is extraordinary but it is the duty of women in our household to pass it on to the children, so that they can become better persons. That can happen through ‘sanskar’ of Marathi literature,” she said.
 
 Yoga guru Rambhau Khandwe won special award for promoting yoga in state and nation.
 
 Former mayor Kunda Vijayakar was the chief guest of the programme while littérateur Pradnya Apte was the guest of honour. President of Sarathi Prashant Kale was also present.
 
 
