Kottayam:   ( , 80), known for his   in Malayalam, passed away here on Wednesday.

 Pushpanath, who has written over 300 detective novels, breathed his last just three weeks after his son, renowned photographer, publisher and entrepreneur,   had passed away.
 
 Pushpanath leaves behind wife Mariamma and two other children, Seenu and Jemy and daughters-in law Anuja, Beena and son-in-law Tommy Xavier.
 
 His funeral will be held at 3pm at the CSI Cathedral Cemetery on Friday.
 
 Two private detectives created by him, Maxine and Pushparaj, were the central characters in most of Pushpanath’s novels. Pushpanath, who popularized detective fiction in Malayalam, was a rage among crime buffs in the 80s and all the major weeklies used to compete among themselves to carry his novels.
 
 His works appeared in instalments in magazines and he often ended them on cliff-hangers, a moment of suspense, which used to leave readers longing for the next instalment. He used to flesh his novels out fully with visual descriptions and interestingly, he had never visited or seen the exotic places abroad, where the stories were set. He was born to Rachel and Satyanesan in Cheruvally house in Malloossery near here. He did his schooling in MT Seminary High school and the Good Shepherd School.
 
 He took his degree in history from the Kerala University in 1972 and had served as a teacher in several government schools before retiring and turning into a full-time novelist in the popular weeklies in Malayalam.
 
 Many of his novels have been translated into Tamil, Telugu and Kannada. His novels like Brahmarakshassu and Chuvanna Anki have been made into movies. Cardinalinte Maranam (The death of a Cardinal), Napoleante Prathima (The statue of Napoleon), Rajkotile Nidhi (The treasure of Rajkot), London Kottarathile Rahasyangal (The secrets of London Palace), The Blade, Tornado, Dracula Kotta (Dracula’s fort), Parallel Road, Level Cross, Hitlarude Thalayodu (The skull of Hitler) are some of his most well-known works.
 
 
