H D  , the Janata Dal (Secular) patriarch and former prime minister is, predictably, confident of his party’s prospects in this assembly election. The seasoned politician, who had fought 15 elections — losing only two, as he is quick to point out — is putting himself on the frontline although he is just weeks shy of 85. 

 During a two-hour visit to the offices of The Times of India to interact with the paper’s editorial board, Gowda showed why he’s still a power to reckon with in political circles. 
 
 Direct, dismissive, thoughtful, shrewd and emotional by turn, he admitted to concerns about the health of his son, former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy (while insisting “he’s fine at the moment”) and candidly admitted that grandson Prajwal Revanna is disappointed not to be contesting these polls. Prajwal’s ‘tatha’, though, has assured him a parliamentary seat in the 2019 polls. Excerpts:
 
 
 
 
 People who I meet, especially the elderly, say, ‘We have meted out injustice to you. We want to rectify it by making your son Kumaraswamy the chief minister’. This is the mood across the state. The BJP has ruled the state for five years and the   government is about to complete its five-year tenure. People have seen them all. Across caste and communities, they now want to give Kumaraswamy a chance.
 
 
 
 
 True, we are a small regional party, finding ourselves between two national parties. The BJP is ruling at the Centre and the Congress in the state. We can never match them in terms of resources. But one factor in our favour is what Kumaraswamy did during the 20 months of his rule. He ensured good governance despite non-cooperation of the BJP, some of whose leaders even went to the extent of leveling frivolous allegations against him. People still remember his programmes like Gramavastavya and Suvarnagrama and farm loan waiver…
 
 
 
 We want to form the government. Our internal survey says we will win substantial seats across the state including Mysuru where we will get at least four-five seats, and in Bidar at least three. The alliance with the BSP will help us improve our tally as the Mayawati-led party is sure of winning a few seats in Mysuru, Mandya and Bidar… If we fail to get absolute majority, we will sit in the opposition after which elections will have to be held again within two months. While the Modi government has absolute majority in the Lok Sabha, any intent to delay the election process will not pass muster in the Rajya Sabha. Hence the elections will have to be conducted within two months.
 
 
 
 
 We were in talks with the Sharad Pawar-led Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). But once we got to know that they were cosying up to the Maharashtra Ekikran Samithi (MES), we made it clear that a coalition is not possible. We clearly said we cannot have an alliance with someone who is friends with the Congress or MES.
 
 
 
 
 (Smiles)… I cannot talk about Pawar. He is a tall leader. Those who are accusing me of moving closer to the BJP should ask why the Congress had an alliance with the DMK which was a member of NDA. Why did the Congress (leaders) go to (M K) Karunandhi’s house?
 
 
 
 It has not been easy for us to get funds after note bandi (demonetization). (In a lighter vein) After this TOI interview, I hope our stock will go up and we will get more funds.
 
 You want to position yourself as a strong regional party, but it is   who has been successful in raising the issue of regionalism against BJP’s brand of nationalism. He is even to trying to consolidate the southern states against BJP and emerge as a strong leader….
 
 Siddaramaiah can never be a strong leader. The Congress high command has become weak after the party lost all states from Kashmir to Kanyakumari, barring Karnataka. This is why we are seeing the spectacle of Siddaramaiah leading the poll campaign and Rahul Gandhi waving from the rear.
 
 
 
 
 Don’t you know there is a junior Deve Gowda (the sitting JD(S) MLA, G T Devegowda)? Wait till the elections are over to see who is going to lose.
 
 
 
 
 Let them be. But I haven’t seen a worse government in my life. Can you imagine police going around complaining about their safety and security? What happened to the Lokayukta? I haven’t seen this scale of corruption ever before.
 
 
 
 
 After Prajwal finished his engineering, I asked him to do his masters. But he wanted to contest the assembly elections. I offered him the Hassan Lok Sabha seat and asked him to contest from there next year. He is not fully convinced, but we will convince him.
 
 
 
 
 Contesting elections is one thing and responding to call of the nation is another. There are two models of coalition being talked about, one with the Congress and the other without it. We will get more clarity as we get closer to the general elections.
 
 
 
 While Kumaraswamy wants to contest from Ramanagara, people of neighbouring Channapatna wanted his wife Anitha as their candidate. But Kumaraswamy is firm that only two from the family will contest this election. There are two-three groups in Channapatna and finding another candidate is troublesome. Hence, Kumaraswamy decided to contest from Channapatna too. Anyway, let us see what the Supreme Court says about candidates contesting from more than one seat.
 
 
 
 The party has nurtured leaders. Was Siddaramaiah not encouraged in the party? Is PGR Sindhia still not around? There will always be leaders who come and go. Circumstances pushed my family into politics. While Revanna was doing his ITI, there was an effort to push him towards the Congress. I was in jail at that time because of the Emergency and asked him to join the Janata Party. Even in the case of Kumaraswamy, he was producing films but there was a sudden gap in the state leadership after Sindhia resigned and he had to step in. Anitha also came into politics after a byelection was declared for Madhugiri. I never brought anybody into politics. Call it god's will or nature's game, it so happens that my family is in politics now.
 
 
 
 I admit there will be a tilt in the Vokkaliga vote towards the JD(S). But will the community members not vote for D K Shivakumar or C P Yogeeshwar when they go to them and ask for votes? I do not see a marked change happening in the voting pattern of Vokkaligas.
 
 
 
 
 There are several issues plaguing the state. Development, deteriorating law and order and nepotism… But we will go to the people with Kumaraswamy at the helm and ask for one more chance.
 
 
