College Street, the abode of books and countless storms in coffee cups, undergoes a sweet transformation during summer nights, writes Dipawali Mitra

 To a true-blue Kolkatan, or to any person who has spent some time in the city, the words “College Street” would immediately conjure up the image of a crowded street, both flanks dotted with bookshops of all shapes and sizes, full of a treasure trove of books. But there’s more to this iconic street than the musty smell of yellowing pages, the countless storms brewing in endless cups of coffee, and the university campuses dotting it. If it’s around midnight in midsummer, College Street is about something far less cerebral, but far more epicurean: the  .
 
  
  Workers carry loads of mango from the market to vehicles
 
 
 Come  , the entire stretch from Mahatma Gandhi Road to the College Street Bata crossing hosts the midnight mango market, probably one of the largest wholesale mango markets in Bengal.
 
 
 On a sweltering night in May, standing at the Harrison Road crossing, all one could see are rows and rows of juicy, ripe mangoes of all shapes and sizes, and tinged with a myriad colours. The sticky sweet smell cuts through the midnight air. Even at this late hour, the area is abuzz: the chattering crowds, the burning lights, the frenetic activity of vans, minitrucks and lorries packing and unpacking tonnes of the fruit. It is almost like Burrabazar during the day.
 
 The court of the king of   assembles here every night between 11pm and 4am in the months of May and June. “The mangoes here come from rural areas of Bengal, such as Basirhat, Shantipur, Barasat, Malda, Chandernagore,” says fruit merchant Guddu, busy supervising the buying and selling of mango. “Mostly, Himsagar mangoes are bought here, as there is a higher demand for it, but other varieties such as Lyangra, Surikhas, Begunphulia, Gobindobhog and Bombai are also available,” says the white kurta-pyjama-clad figure, whose family has been in the business for more than 40 years.
 
  
  A trader sifts through his ware of mangoes
 
 Most of the mahajans (fruit merchants) have arats (seats of business) at Mechua. It is during this season that they come to College Street for the mango market.
 
 The wholesale market here operates as a three-tier system: farmers, mahajans and local hawkers, who buy from this market and sell the fruit the next morning in the local market. It is from this market that mangoes are supplied to all small and big markets of Kolkata and the outskirts. The mahajans get a fair amount of commission on the sale of each basket of mango, which contains at least 40kg of the fruit.
 
 “By selling a basket of mango, we earn Rs 1,200 to Rs 1,500 after the commission to the mahajans,” says Rahul, a 20-something youth who has come from Barasat to sell his mangoes. For Rahul, mango is only a seasonal business. The rest of the year, the business is tailoring. This year has not been particularly good in the mango business. “Production has been comparatively less than average because of the frequent spells of rain and thundershowers,” says farmer Asgar Ali, shaking his head.
 
  
  A tram trundles by basketsful of the fruit kept by the side of the road
 
 Going down to the actual nitty-gritty, there are 45 aratdaars that dominate the midnight market, and each arat has a group of men busy counting money and noting down figures. “Business worth lakhs is carried out every day from here, and we deal in cash, so it is absolutely necessary to be flawless in the calculations,” explains Amir. Furqan, his colleague, adds that checking and cross-checking is very important, in order to ensure nothing — absolutely nothing — is left out. Working together makes the job smooth and fast.
 
 It is here that the hawkers — both local and the ones from the outskirts — flock every night to buy mangoes at cheap, wholesale rates. One of them is Saroj Samanta, a hawker from Batanagar, in the southern fringes of the city. He was busy loading his ‘catch of the night’ — basketsful of ripe mangoes, on to a mini truck. “I come here every night during the mango season because of the quality of mangoes, and the wholesale rates. I will manage to make a nice profit when I sell these tomorrow at the local market,” he candidly says.
 
 The end consumer is virtually non-existent here, as this is not really the place to go for a couple of kilos, but there is the occasional connoisseur who can’t resist passing by without picking some up. Like Shabbir Alam, a Park Circus resident who came here with his family, busy evaluating a selection of mangoes. “We were passing by, so I thought of getting some kilos of juicy mangoes for friends and family at a cheap rate,” he confesses with a smile.
 
 Adding a touch of the carnivalesque to the centre of commerce are the biryani stalls. There are four such stalls in the area, and no one who sees the crowd in front of each stall would say that Kolkatans are eating less non-vegetarian food because of the recent racket about meat of dubious quality. The biryani is sold, straight out of the giant handis, between 11am and 2am. “I come here every day at 11, and by 2pm, I have sold at least two handis of chicken biryani. This year, too, the sales have been pretty good,” says Shahenshah, who puts up his biryani stall only during the mango season. And there’s not only biryani, but a whole spread: tea, toast and omelette, even kulfiwallahs. Seventy-year-old Mohd Irshad, selling paan, says: “I have been coming here for the last 30 years, during this time of the year. I stay here till 4am every day and earn about Rs 500.”
 
 If College Street is magical and has its own charm during the day, it transforms itself, like a Cinderella, around the stroke of midnight. The bookstalls fall silent, to be replaced by the fruit-sellers’ cacophony, and the smell of yellowed pages gives way to the sweet smell of the king of fruits. The magic? It’s all there, you just have to be there to get it.
 
