KOLKATA: Train schedules were disrupted and thousands of passengers were left in the lurch on Monday due to agitations staged by tribal outfits in Bengal and the adjoining states protesting against alleged forcible land acquisition. 

 Several trains had to be cancelled, short-terminated or diverted. Many passengers from short-terminated trains attempted to reach their destinations by road, but the national highways too had been blocked.
 
 Among the trains detained was the Bhubaneswar-New Delhi Rajdhani Express. It was diverted via Kharagpur-Tatanagar after several hours. South   (SER) had to make special arrangements for passengers who were supposed to board the Rajdhani from Adra. 
 
 A special train took them to Bokaro Steel City through which the train passed. Several Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) sector trains were also affected.
 
 Prasenjit Chakraborty, an accountant at the Matigara BDO office in north Bengal, had boarded the Darjeeling Mail from Sealdah on Sunday evening. At 6.30am on Monday, barely an hour-and-a-half before he was to deboard at Rangapani, the train stopped at the Khurial station in Bihar. "It took me more than nine hours to reach my destination, thanks to the agitation." 
 
 "On Mondays, there is a lot of work at office. After 5pm, I got off at Rangapani and started for my home in Matigara. I am sure, many with work in the accounts section were affected due to my absence. We had to spend several hours in the train without food or water and the toilets were unusable. There were several women and children in the train who suffered the worst. Such agitations should not be allowed," Chakraborty said.
 
 H Tripathi, a passenger on the Brahmaputra Mail, was visibly nervous as he feared missing a job interview in Guwahati on Tuesday morning. The train was held up at Malda Town due to the agitation. The train had already been 40 hours late due to fog in north India. "All my efforts will go to waste if I am late for the interview," he said while pacing on the Malda Town station platform. 
 
 "There were obstructions at Jhapandanga, due to which the Howrah-Ranchi Shatabdi Express was delayed. Closer to Kolkata, services were disrupted at Duttapukur and Guma. Several trains were also affected under the NFR. Among the trains affected were Kanchanjungha Express, Balurghat Express, Darjeeling Mail, Padatik Express, Kanchan Kanya Express, Saraighat Express, Hatey Bazare Express and New Jalpaiguri-Howrah Shatabdi Express," an Eastern Railway spokesperson said
 
 Under SER, obstructions were made at Indrabil, Kantadih, Madhukunda and Maluka affecting trains like Tatanagar-Dhanbad Express and several passenger trains.
 
 
