BHAGALPUR: The Special Investigation Team (SIT) formed to probe the irregularities in appointments for various posts in   (BAU) has recently issued notices to 13 junior scientists.

 Earlier, JD(U) MLA from Tarapur and former Bihar Agriculture University (BAU) vice-chancellor Mewalal Choudhary was booked for gross irregularities in the appointments at BAU during his tenure as VC. Several acquaintances of Choudhary are also prime suspects. The SIT had found crucial evidences after interrogating relatives and acquaintances of the ex-VC. 
 
 Now, junior scientists who are under SIT scanner have been asked to appear before the investigating team along with their certificates of educational qualification, experience certificates and other details.
 
 An FIR was lodged against against Choudhary with the Sabour police station on February 21, 2017, under Sections 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant), 420 (cheating and dishonesty), 467 (forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC following a directive from the office of the chancellor-cum governor of the state.
 
 In fact, a probe committee constituted at the chancellor's behest found that merit (written scores and academic achievements) was ignored and favoured ones were awarded high marks in the interview in making the appointments in 2012. Even PhD degree holders and NET qualified candidates were ignored for the assistant professor and junior scientist posts. 
 
 The probe committee was headed by Justice (retd) Syed Mohammed Mahfooz Alam of the Patna high court. According to BAU sources, the probe team found gross irregularities in the appointment of 161 assistant professors and junior scientists in 2012, beside others.
 
 DSP (headquarters) Ramesh Kumar, heading the SIT and investigating officer (IO) of the case said notices have been served to the junior scientists and they have been asked to appear before the SIT on May 10. “The SIT will cross examine them and verify their credentials including the authenticity of experience certificates,” said the DSP.
 
 
