ALWAR:The   Tiger Reserve’s jinx appears to be over after two years. The forest administration, who were waiting for tiger population to grow at STR, were elated after tigress ST-14 gave birth to two cubs. 

 The four-year-old tigress littered cubs for the first time after she was born to tigress ST-2 at STR in 2014. ST-2, was the first tigress to join the reserve in   district after she was flown by an Indian Air Force helicopter from Ranthambore to Sariska on July 4, 2008, 
 
 The first photo of the mother, ST -14, was clicked by the camera trap near waterhole in Kaska village at the Sariska range. Balaji Kari, DFO at Sariska told TOI, “It is a good news for the reserve. The cubs with mother, ST-14 were captured in a camera trap, which was installed during the search operation of missing tigress, ST-5,” Kari said.
 
 The forest department sources said, the first image of these two cubs was captured in the camera trap on April 6 at 1.59 am. However, department came to know about the birth of these cubs nearly after three weeks when trackers at STR on Saturday found the tigress ST-14 with two cubs in Kaska village. “To confirm about the cubs, the monitoring team, checked the camera trap images, where it became evident cubs are born.” 
 
 The father of these cubs is ST-11 who died last month after getting entangled in a barbed wire fence in a farmland at Indok village adjoining the (STR). 
 
 Sources further said, “Now, special monitoring is required to protect these cubs as they are born in same area from where tigress ST-5 went missing,” he said.
 
 Including these two newborn cubs, tiger population at STR has reached 15. The tiger reserve, in 2005, was left without any tigers, mainly because of poaching. Following this, a tiger re-population programme was introduced in 2008. Of these, tigress ST-2 had littered four cubs—two in 2012 and two in 2014. 
 
 In 2014, another two cubs were littered by another tigress ST-10. Of the seven shifted from Ranthambore, five were tigresses and two were tigers. 
 
 
