BHUBANESWAR: Laxmisagar police here on Friday arrested Pratap Panda, MD of Panda Infra Projects Pvt Ltd, for his alleged neglect that led to collapse of a portion of Bomikhal road over bridge (ROB) and subsequent death of a labourer on Thursday night. Significantly, Panda was arrested on same charges in the wake of a tragedy at the same site in September last year. 

 One labourer was killed and another injured when a girder from the under-construction overbridge in Bomikhal collapsed on Thursday evening. The incident rekindled memories of September 10 last year when a portion of the same bridge caved in, killing a businessman and injuring 11, including his five-year-old daughter.
 
 Chief minister   on Friday orders a high level inquiry and announces Rs 5 lakh compensation to next of the kin of the deceased. Thedeceased and the injured were among the seven labourers who were working at the site, near EkamraTalkies, when the incident took place. The deceased has been identified as 38-year-old Ajay Bhumij while the injured,   (23), is critical.
 
 Locals rescued the two trapped under the debris and they were admitted to Capital Hospital where Bhumij succumbed to his injuries.
 
 Later in the evening   and   staged separate demonstrations near  , demanding adequate compensation for the deceased and the injured. The protesters slammed the state government for allowing the same contractor to resume construction work despite last year’s tragedy.
 
 Panda Infra, a private firm, was assigned by the works department to execute the road overbridge. The managing director of Panda Infra Projects Private Limited, Pratap Kishore Panda, and state works department engineer Bansidhar Praharaj were arrested a day after the September 10 incident.
 
 “We blame the state government for allowing the same contractor to resume work. Last year the government said it would blacklist the firm. The company did not learn from its previous mistake. No safety guideline was adopted. It’s strange the government continued to reposed faith on the same firm,” said Itish Pradhan, a student Congress leader.
 
 “Locals have been facing difficulty as the company overshot several deadlines. No safety measures have been taken for passers-by and workers. Government should give explanation for allowing the substandard work by Panda Infra,” said BJP leader JagannathPradhan.
 
 It must be mentioned that on October 4, 2017, state works secretary Nalinikanta Pradhan, in his report to chief minister Naveen Patnaik, had stated that Panda Infra should be blacklisted.
 
 DCP Anup Kumar Sahoo said an inquiry has been launched to find possible negligence on the part of the construction firm. Laxmisagar Police is likely to register a case against the company.
 
 “We are also trying to find out the reason for the mishap. Panda Infra was asked to resume work as per the previous agreement. There were some legal complications for which we could not debar the firm from working on the Bomikhal project,” a works department officer said on condition of anonymity. 
 
