VELLORE: A Class XI student of a government-aided higher secondary school at   in Tamil Nadu who was arrested for stabbing the headmaster on Monday, told police that he had   and waited for an opportunity to  , R Babu, as the latter had branded him a 'rogue'. 

  "He was waiting for an opportunity to attack the headmaster. He had been carrying a kitchen knife with him since Friday," said investigation officer S Thirunavukarasu, quoting the confessional statement of the 16-year-old student. "He had studied in another school in the town for three years before joining here. There was no report of misbehaviour on his part from his old schools," said the inspector. The boy's brother is also studying in the same class.
 
  The arrested boy had joined the vocational group in Class XI this academic year. The headmaster had asked him to have a proper haircut and to keep himself tidy while coming to school. However, the boy ignored the HM's advice. He had allegedly created problems in the class and did not concentrate on studies,   said.
 
  As directed by the HM, the boy brought his parents to the school last Wednesday. "The HM complained to the boy's parents about him and asked him to have a proper haircut. He asked his parents to discipline him. Upset over this, the boy raised his voice against the headmaster in the presence of his parents. The boy's mother slapped him for talking back to the HM," said the inspector, quoting the boy's statement. Since then, he wanted to take revenge against the HM and carried a knife with him. "He had been carrying the knife, about 9 inches long, to the school since Friday and was looking for an opportunity to attack," added the inspector. The HM spotted the boy, along with four others, staying back in the classroom, instead of joining the other classmates in front of his office room to study. While the other students stormed out of the class, the boy hid inside the classroom."The headmaster reprimanded him. The boy butted the HM and stabbed him in the  ," said the inspector, quoting the boy's statement. 
 
 
