KOLKATA: The mysterious death of a 46-year- old schizophrenic patient, who was also severely physically challenged, rocked the   neighbourhood. 

 Locals alleged that the woman’s elder sister and brother-in-law had beaten up Kakali Das and denied her food for over a week, thus “murdering” her. The protests that started on   around 10.35pm on Tuesday continued on Wednesday morning. Around 60 locals have submitted a mass petition to police to investigate the exact cause of Kakali’s death. According to Debashish Chatterjee, a relative of the victim, and neighbour Prakash Chandra Das, a retired government employee, the Das family had lived at Brojen Mukherjee Road address for three decades. 
 
 “Kakali’s father Gopen passed away several years ago and his elder daughter   Mullick and her husband moved in to take care of her mother Bina, 68, and sister. There had been some tension over property issues. Last September, Keya lost her daughter Locket to dengue and according to Bina, the couple held her and Kakali responsible for the death.   complained that they were denied food and were being tortured. 
 
 Around 10pm on Tuesday, a local eatery owner saw Keya and her husband removing Kakali’s body from the house. He called up local youths who questioned Keya and were told Kakali was declared dead by a doctor around 5pm. On hearing about a commotion in the neighbourhood, Behala police reached the spot at 10.35pm. “We received a mass petition and started an investigation. We contacted Bina, who said that her daughter had become very irritable of late and had stopped eating for the past seven days. She claimed Kakali was physically attacked on Tuesday evening, but denied that she was deliberately denied food. 
 
 We spoke to Dr  , an MD in psychiatry who has been treating Kakali for the past 15 years, who confirmed he had examined the deceased after getting a call at 4pm. He said the death was due to cardio-respiratory failure. We sent the body to   where doctors declared her dead at 1.10am,” said a senior Behala division cop. He added that contrary to claims, the injuries on the deceased’s body were old and did not suggest that she was tortured. 
 
 “We will take action depending on the postmortem report. As of now, there has been no formal complaint from either the woman’s mother or any family member. Behala police are monitoring the law-and-order situation at the spot,” said DC (Behala) Meeraz Khalid.
