HYDERABAD: At 38.75 per cent, the   in Telangana State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission ( ) is the lowest in the country. Courtesy: Vacancies in the state forum and piling of up cases since bifurcation of the erstwhile  .

 
  
 
 An analysis of cases filed at the commission – including disputes, appeals, revision petitions and others – reveals that of 3,125 cases filed since inception, 1,211 have been disposed and 1,914 are pending as of January 31 in Telangana. While the national percentage of disposal of cases is 85.69 per cent, Telangana stands at 38.75 per cent.
 
 After Telangana, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha have the lowest disposal rate at 69.21 per cent and 73.23 per cent respectively. Despite this, the disposal of cases in the two states is comparatively much faster than Telangana. The percentage of disposal in all other states across the country is above 80 per cent with fastest being that of Tripura at 98.55 per cent followed by Chhattisgarh at 97.26 per cent and Andhra Pradesh at 97.25 per cent.
 
 Officials attribute high pendence rate in state fora to acute shortage of staff. “For nearly 14 months, the state fora did not have a president to dispose cases. This severely affected the overall functioning of the forum as cases continued to be piled up,” said  , honorary president of Confederation of All Telangana Consumer Organisations.
 
 Consumer forums have to dispose cases within the stipulated 90 days period. However, there are several cases where consumers are found waiting for more than six years to get a verdict. Of these, many firstappeal cases which are pending since the TSCDRC’s constitution in October, 2014.
 
 Sources said that many cases in the state forum are pertaining to realty, medical negligence, life insurance, banking and finance companies etc.
 
 Officials fear that the situation is only going to worsen with the current TSCDRC president scheduled to retire in June first week. Even the member of the state forum is set to retire in June second year. “The government must appoint new president or else the entire functioning of the forums will come to a standstill,” said an official from the state forum.
 
 The district forums, however, fared better in Telangana. Figures tabled in the   last month reveals that of the 92,087 filed at 12 fora in the state as on January 1, 2018, 87,386 case have been disposed of and 4,701 were pending. This puts the disposal rate at 94.90 per cent and pendency rate at just six per cent.
 
 
