LUDHIANA: The MC’s drive to vacate illegally occupied flats in Giaspura turned violent when a 19-year-old youth was electrocuted after he had climbed a transformer in protest against the drive on Thursday.

 The victim, Sunny, had climbed the pole, threatening the   authorities that he would touch the high-tension wires if the drive was not stopped. But a little later, he lost balance, came in contact with high-tension wires and fell down.
 
 After he fell down from the transformer, the infuriated mob allegedly thrashed the MC executive engineer and made other officials run for their lives. A woman officer, Sangeeta, saved her life by hiding in one of the flats and was brought out later with the help of police force.
 
 After serving notices to 241 illegal occupants, a team of MC officials had gone to vacate illegally occupied flats in the area on Thursday morning. Though some people had vacated the flats on their own, around 150 families had not vacated the flats.
 
 As soon as the MC staff came to the area, the encroachers also started gathering at the spot. The officials were vacating only those flats first where illegal occupants were not in large number so as to avoid a clash with them. The officials were successful in vacating some of the flats, but the residents continued to stage a protest in the area.
 
 People tried to convince officials saying that they were shifted from shanties in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar around a year back and they were asked to live in these flats by the officials. They were also promised they will get the possession of flats after paying some money, they claimed.
 
 They also claimed they had met Mayor Balkar Sandhu some three days back and he had also promised them that the MC won’t make them homeless and give them flats after seeing their documents.
 
 The officials asked them to talk to the mayor or commissioner over this issue and they would stop the drive if they would issue orders.
 
 In the meantime, Sunny climbed the transformer and threatened the officials to leave the spot failing which he would touch the high-tension wires. People made loud appeals, asking him to come down. Two of the residents tried to bring him down from a window, adjoining that pole from where he had climbed, but he lost his balance and fell while coming in contact with the wires.
 
 Locals took him to a hospital immediately. Following the incident, the mob allegedly started throwing bricks on MC officials who ran away from the spot to save their lives. Executive engineer Karamjit Singh received injuries on his legs, arm, chest and he was also taken to a hospital for treatment. Later he was discharged from the hospital.
 
 The police was called to the spot to control angry protesters. Cops also brought out female officer Sangeeta from one of the flats.
 
 MC commissioner Jaskiran Singh said they have recommended an FIR against the persons who allegedly attacked the MC officer on duty. He said they would get the illegally occupied flats vacated after some time now.
 
 ADCP Sandeep Sharma said they are maintaining law and order situation in the area.
 
