MUMBAI: A professor at a   of a   has been convicted for   of students by repeatedly using the word ‘sex’ during his lectures. 

 The   complained that  , aged around 45, would always veer away from his assigned subject of medical surgical part I and discuss honeymoons, and often give explicit details on what was expected of them on their first night of marriage. The women alleged that he also gave them his personal diary about his sexual experiences for compulsory reading.
 
 In convicting Bandre, the court clarified that the topic of sex was neither unholy nor against decency or morality, provided that it was taught in an appropriate manner. “There is no manner of doubt that in this case, the acts of the accused and the manner of his teaching was not only unbecoming of a teacher, but was certainly with an intention to insult the modesty of girl students and to intrude upon their privacy,” the   said.
 
 Nevertheless, the court allowed Bandre to be released on probation while factoring in his education (PhD) and that the offence was previously punishable with imprisonment for only one year. 
 
 After the amendment, the section attracts a maximum sentence of three years in jail. The FIR against the man was registered on June 16, 2012.
 
 Under the Probation of Offenders Act, in cases where an offence is punishable with a sentence of two years or less, and the accused has no criminal antecedents, he can be granted release on admonition. The court said the man was to “behave with utmost decency in his life and should not repeat his past conduct”.
 
 The FIR was filed by one of the students, who said she was in the second year of the course. Bandre was always the first to take lectures and taught her and the others about ailments. The complainant alleged that despite several reminders from students that sex was not part of the assigned topic, he continued with it. The woman complained that Bandre “name-called girl students and said they had affairs with ward boys and other teachers”. She said he didn’t change his behaviour despite a written complaint to the authorities.
 
 The complaint and another student deposed before the court. The teacher’s lawyer submitted that he was only teaching on the subject of sex. The lawyer said that talking on sex was not obscene, as it fell within the ambit of “freedom of speech and expression” guaranteed by the Indian Constitution.
 
 The court said that from the statement of one of the witnesses, it was revealed that previous batches had similar problems with the accused. The court said that the overall evidence of both witnesses showed that the accused had crossed all limits of decency and morality while teaching his students.
 
 
