IT firm employee   would not travel by bus unless they look good. Till the facilities improve, he would vroom to his workplace on his two-wheeler.

 
 “I don’t find the   (PMPML) buses appealing enough. Most of them are in a pathetic condition. Can   authorities give an assurance that I will reach my workplace on time every day? I don’t think they can,” says Sameer, an employee of an IT firm in Hinjewadi.
 
 
 Gole is the face of most Puneites — happy to use personal vehicles for commuting. Each of them contributes to the city’s traffic burden and their vehicles spew some volume of toxic air. But they do it out of compulsion. PMPML’s history of unpredictability has forced them to bank on their personal vehicles.
 
 
 After   took charge as the new CMD of the ailing PMPML, he took some strict steps to streamline the bus service of the city. His own officials and the corporators found the measures too bitter to swallow, though.
 
 
 The PMPML has an increased ridership now, but it failed to inspire the upper middle class to shun their vehicles and travel on buses — common in cities like Mumbai or Bengaluru.
 
 
 Sanjay Shitole, the secretary of the  , says, “We welcome the steps taken by PMPML. But what about the basics? Four to five buses were gutted in fire in the past 20 and odd days. Why fire extinguishers are not there in buses? Why drivers and conductors are not trained in basic firefighting? Why many buses have torn seats? Commuters want these facilities, which unfortunately are not there.”
 
 
 In nine months,   has sent some positive messages. “Many good initiatives have been taken of late and the Intelligent Traffic Management System (ITMS) is one among them. Officials can track the movement of buses using it sitting at office. Mundhe has been able to ensure that drivers don’t break rules and drive carefully,” an official of the transport body said.
 
 
 PMPML’s mobile application — PMP E-connect — was also a positive step. “The application has several services. One among them is SOS,” he said.
 
 
 But these are not enough. PMPML needs to improve on quality and punctuality of buses. Once that’s done, half the battle is won. Many will switch to buses from personal vehicles, easing the burden on city roads and subsequently improving the air quality.
 
