The latest episode of   starts with   in the kitchen thinking about pills.   comes and drags her to get her Maths homework done. Ishita, while leaving, asks Neelu to get Pihu's milk, while Neelu is doing so, Raman walks in and tells her he will give the milk. Raman goes and sees Ishita helping Pihu in her homework. He watches them and then enters the room. They talk and then he asks her to sleep. Ishita and Raman put Pihu to bed and then leave. 

 Mani tells Shagun that Ishita will never agree. Shagun says she would never want Nikhil to get away easily just because he will become a witness against Param. Mani tells Shagun he should let Ishita decide. 
 
 Ishita and Raman argue in a funny way as to who will sleep on the couch. Raman holds Ishita's hand and says it is decided that she will sleep on the bed as she has helped many people including him and deserves a good sleep. He thanks Ishita for helping Pihu and she says he doesn't need to thank as Pihu is her daughter. They share a romantic moment and then he gets a flashback which makes him uncomfortable. He has water and leaves the room saying he needs fresh air.
 
 Mrs Bhalla is in the kitchen making parathas she gets restless as she has to make breakfast for others. Ishita comes in and offers help but she refuses. Simmi joins in and she exchanges a few bitter words with Ishita. Mrs Bhalla, Simmi, and Ishita get into an argument. Raman comes in hears their conversation. He warns her not to use such words against his sister and brother-in-law Param. As Raman leaves Simmi rejoices and challenges to throw Ishita out of the house in the next two days and Ishita accepts it.
 
 Ishita makes pasta for Pihu and Raman calls Neelu for help but the former stops her and tells her that she will go. Raman shouts at her and taunts her that if she considers him her husband, then first learn to respect his family.
 
  
 Ishita goes to Aliya's room and says that she doesn't know how to win back Raman's trust.
 
 Ishita gets a call from Shagun and she goes down to meet her. Then she gets ready to take Nikhil's help in exposing Param and Simmi's plan.
 
