KOCHI:   stepped down as the head coach of   on Tuesday, just two days before their all-important home fixture against  . Meulensteen's resignation comes after a poor start to the   ( ) season in which Blasters have managed to win only one of their first seven matches.

 It is also learnt that negotiations happened between Meulensteen and the club management late on Tuesday evening in a last-ditch effort to convince the Dutch manager to stay. The club CEO Varun Tripuraneni reached Kochi on Tuesday evening and conducted discussions with the coach. As per sources close to the developments, the management were willing to allow him to visit his family for one or two weeks and then rejoin the team for rest of the season. However, Meulensteen had made up his mind.
 
 “Kerala Blasters and head coach Rene Meulensteen have decided to mutually part ways with immediate effect due to the latter’s personal reasons,” said an official press release by the ISL side on Tuesday. “I like to thank the management, staff, players and amazing fans for this experience and wish them well for the future,” the release also quoted Meulensteen.
 
 “The club like to thank Rene for all the hard work in his time at the club. The replacement will be announced soon,” Tripuraneni said. Blasters will be hosting Pune City FC on Thursday and assistant coach Thangboi Singto is likely to take up the role of an interim coach for the match. Singto will be addressing the media for the pre-match press conference on Wednesday.
 
 Meulensteen, who had a successful stint as assistant coach of Manchester United under Alex Ferguson, was brought in with much fanfare. However, he has been facing immense pressure from the fans and management for the disastrous performance of the team and it only got worse after their 1-3 defeat against Bengaluru FC on Sunday. The coach seemed to have lost faith in his players. “All goals were self-inflicted. Even if it is 1-0, you stay in the game; it is not good, it is unacceptable. You can't legislate for human error, it is as simple as that. Bengaluru FC, with the quality players that they had, took advantage of that. We have ourselves to blame,” he had said during the post-match press conference.
 
 There were speculations that Meulensteen has been an unpopular man in the dressing room with discontent brewing among the players. The coach received a lot of criticisms for his treatment towards fan favourite Iain Hume as the Canadian has been left on the bench for most of the season, “We have seen how Hume plays. To leave such a player in the bench does not deserve any justification. You need to give him time to perform. The coach has destroyed his confidence by not giving him a starting place,” said former India player IM Vijayan. The sudden resignation of Meulensteen could also be down to a less than cordial locker room atmosphere though the management refuted such claims.
 
 This is not for the first time that Blasters are parting ways with their head coach in the middle of a season. In 2015, the club fired Englishman Peter Taylor after the team suffered four losses on the trot. Taylor's assistant and former East Bengal coach Trevor Morgan then assumed the responsibilities of the team for the next two matches and the franchise later appointed Terry Phelan as their head coach.
 
 
