CHENNAI: With passengers from the state finding it increasingly difficult to book train tickets to   at short notice, buses have been the preferred mode of transport. But, with the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation ( ) now cutting down on regular services along key routes, commuters find themselves caught between a rock and a hard place. 

 A total of 142 buses were operated by KSRTC and various state transport corporations maintained by   on inter-state routes. Of this, KSRTC operated 54 buses along 30 routes covering 8,700 km. 
 
 Among these, KSRTC has curtailed operations on 13 routes covering up to 2,800 km in Tamil Nadu under the guise of increasing the number of special services during weekends, festivals and summer vacations. An agreement to this effect was signed by both states on April 26 and necessary orders by the Tamil Nadu government were released recently. 
 
 The agreement is expected to worsen the public transport situation, with KSRTC services from Palakkad to Coimbatore and Kochi to Salem having been completely stopped. 
 
 Similarly, the number of KSRTC services along Parambikulam-Palakkad via Pollachi, Mettupalayam-Mannarkad via Anakatty and Thiruvananthapuram-Nagercoil via Kaliyillavila has also been reduced significantly. 
 
 While 16 trips were operated by four KSRTC buses between Cumbum and Vandiperiyar prior to the agreement, this has been reduced to four and only one   will ply on the route. Moreover, it will ply only till Kumli and not Vandiperiyar.
 
 The Tamil Nadu State Express Transport Corporation (SETC) has also reduced operations along some routes including Chennai-Kollam and Shencottah-Cannanore.
 
 However, services along 'economical' routes connecting various cities in TN including Chennai, Salem, Coimbatore and Madurai with tourist destinations like Thekkady and Wayanad have been increased. 
 
 All the additional services, offered by KSRTC this summer, are to be operated only to Bengaluru via Hosur except for two buses to Chennai. 
 
 To compensate for the drop, TN will be running 32 buses and nearly one-fourth of them will connect Chennai and Puducherry. These 'special' buses are eligible to collect one and half times the normal fare from passengers. 
 
 Besides this, 62 special buses will be operated by both states on weekends. 
 
 
