Ludhiana: A total of 17 candidates are in the fray for Ward No.31 in Gyaspura (31,000 voters) giving it the distinct identity of having the largest number of candidates fighting for one seat across all wards of the city. As per a rough estimate, 92% of the ward’s population comprises migrants from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, and as a result, most of the candidates are from the same community.

 “The ward comprises a large number of areas, including Lakshman Nagar, Gaggan Nagar, Pakhar Colony, Maha Singh Nagar, Gurmeet Nagar, Shaheed Ajeet Singh Colony, Sukhdev Nagar, Sunder Nagar, Gurmail Nagar, Maha Maya Nagar, Gill Colony, Gurbachan Colony, Adarsh Colony, Hari Krishan Nagar, Baba Mukand Singh Nagar, Amarpuri, Jain Colony, and Amardass Colony. Four of the 17 candidates are from regular parties, including Congress, SAD-BJP alliance, and Lok Insaaf Party (LIP), while a majority are independent,” said Rajesh Mishra, a political leader from the ward.
 
 His wife Uma Bala, who is contesting as an independent candidate, said the outgoing councillor Baby Singh got a lot of respect from people in the area, but failed to do justice to their mandate. “I was forced to contest from here, as the sitting councillor didn’t do much to improve the ward’s condition. The roads are in a terrible shape, there is no proper sewerage system here, and 70% of the areas face water-logging during the rainy season. There is also no safe drinking water for residents. Since most of the residents are migrants, they also face problems in getting a caste certificate, which is important for them to apply for government jobs,” said Bala. She added that if elected, she would work on these basic issues, so that people of the area are able to get basic amenities at least.
 
 Sitting councillor Baby Singh said she had won from the ward twice as an independent candidate, and was contesting again for the third time. “We have 100% water supply, 100% sewerage, and 80-85% of the road works are complete. We are contesting the election on the basis of our performance,” she said.
 
 Meanwhile, another independent candidate Gauri Jain said the number of candidates in the ward was the highest as the ward was very large in area. She added that if elected, she would get CCTV cameras installed in every chowk and mohallas, provide free computer education for children, develop children’s parks, have plantations done for a clean environment, set up a 24-hour helpline for facilities to residents, including dispensaries, ambulance, and a permanent place for dharamshala and Chhath Puja.
 
 Voters said apart from basic facilities like better roads, proper sewerage, and drinking water, the security of women and minor children was a big issue in the MC polls. “For us, women and the security of our minors is very important, as the area is crime-prone. Also, there are no proper education facilities for girls beyond class 12, and colleges are around six to seven kilometres from here. We want our elected councillors to work in that direction as well,” said Vijay Kumar, a voter from Bihar’s Darbhanga, who has been living in the ward for the past more than ten years, and is the father of an 18-year-old daughter.
 
 Many area residents said though the main political parties had fielded their candidates, the ward had a history of electing independent candidates during the past ten years.
 
 
