CHENNAI: As many as 44 centres will be set up across 32 districts of the state to facilitate the counselling process of the   (TNEA), which is going online this year for the first time. Each district will have one or more   Facilitation Centres ( ) based on the area of the district and number of applicants to aid students through all stages of counselling. 

 Higher education minister K P Anbazhagan on Friday made an announcement regarding the online counselling process for single window admission into engineering courses across the state. The TNEA, which is being held for 21 years at the Anna University campus in Chennai, was made online this year to make it easier for applicants hailing from different parts of the state and avoid the ordeal of travelling, boarding, lodging and financial expenses.
 
 The counselling process will take place in three phases - registration and application, certificate verification and counselling process. SMS and email alerts will be sent to the applicants during each stage of counselling. 
 
 The first phase will involve online registration where applicants are required to pay 500 ( 250 for SC/SCA/ST). For students who do not have internet access can head to the TFCs where they will be able to register online. These centres will include campuses like Anna University and government and government-aided colleges affiliated to the university. Some government polytechnics and government arts and science colleges will also offer the facility. 
 
 For the second phase of certificate verification, all students must go to the TFCs with their application, original certificates and their photocopies. Approximately, one week time will be given and candidates will have the choice to pick the   closest to them in any district across the state. During this time, a booklet with information of all colleges, seats and courses will be handed out to the candidates. This will also be made available online, said TNEA secretary  . A video will also be displayed at the TFCs where a live demo of the process to guide students will be displayed. 
 
 The third phase of counselling will be held in five rounds. "Each round will go on for five days in which the candidate will take the first three days to enter their option (college/course) tentatively and may take the next two days to confirm the allotment given to them. Students may do this all online but can also approach the TFCs for the counselling process," he said. The applicants are required to pay a sum of 5,000 ( 1,000 for SC/SCA/ST) as initial deposit for college admissions. 
 
 
