KANNUR: There was a prisoner who once got an opportunity to escape from the jail and he walked for kilometers till evening. But later he felt he should not do that and in the feeling of guilt and also the love for the head warder there, he walked back and reached the prison in the evening. There were many such experiences that Rajesh M Vadakkumbad, who was the deputy prison officer in Kannur central prison and also other prisons, passed through in his career, but he was hesitant to write it down.

 However, when he was diagnosed with cancer, he finally decided to write his experiences in jail, of course after much coercion by his friends. And that book was released recently, on his first death anniversary.
 
 The book, ‘Azhikalkkappuram (Ippuravum)’, which is a compilation of six articles by Rajesh, has been published by Kozhikode-based Eye Books.
 
 There are many beautiful and touching experiences in the book, which only a man with firsthand experiences and love for humanity can narrate, said writer N Prabhakaran who wrote the foreword to the book.
 
 “There are some touching experiences he passed through as a jail staffer, but he was hesitant to write it down. However, after much coercing, he finally agreed to write it down and it has come out well,” said the writer.
 
 In this book, Rajesh also has shared his experience with a tribal, Chaaman, who was jailed during the Muthanga agitation in Wayanad. The old man got into the bus taking the agitators to the prison without knowing what was happening. He was not part of the agitation, but when he saw his fellow beings boarding a bus, he too got in without knowing that they were being taken to prison.
 
 After he was released, Rajesh even went to meet that old tribal at his home, and this is also indicative of his love for the people at the grassroots, according to Prabhakaran.
 
 Though many jail staffers have written literary works and also many prisoners have written their experiences behind the bars, it is for the first time the prison experiences of a jail official being published, said Kannur central prison superintendent Nirmalanandan Nair, who released the book.
 
 “Though it is a small book, it is a new experience that sheds light on many experiences we forget as jail staffers, and I am sure this will help people like us to handle the prisoners in a better manner,” he said.
 
