PANAJI: A green signal by the central expert appraisal committee (CEAC) for expansion of 5A-6A berths at Mormugao Port Trust ( ) has come as a big boost for increased handling of coal and other cargo from 7.5 million tonnes per annum to 12 to 13 million tonnes per annum at these two berths.

 This development follows strong opposition to the project, a marathon eight-day public hearing, a raucous verbal exchange between the government and activists and NGOs over coal pollution issue and chief minister’s letter to the Centre not to consider the expansion till pollution norms related to existing pollution are complied with.
 
 CEAC’s nod for issuance of environmental clearance (EC) and coastal regulations zone (CRZ) clearance to   (SWPL) for the Rs 300-crore project now awaits final clearance for the twin requirements from ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC). 
 
 The committee forms part of the ministry. Goa coastal zone management authority (GCZMA) had also recommended the proposal for a CRZ clearance in a letter dated August 18, 2017.
 
 Taking cognizance of several of these factors and also measures initiated by SWPL to control pollution at the existing facility, the CEAC recommended the project for the twin clearances at its 26th meeting on December 14-15, 2017.
 
 The anti-expansion activists are irked by the CEAC recommendation. 
 
 “It appears CEAC acted mechanically without studying the intricacies of the case. It is physically impossible for CEAC to sift through voluminous records including over 20 hours of video recording generated at the public hearing,” Savio Correia, an activist said.
 
 The CEAC met to consider not only SWPL, but also 15-odd projects, he added. “The Centre’s cold shoulder to CM’s specific written request against grant of approval to the project is an insult to every Goan,” said Correia.
 
 Union minister for shipping   had said that the development projects would be moved to neighbouring states if people in Goa opposed them.
 
 
