CHANDIGARH: Panjab University (PU) is going to renew the effort to invite Prime Minister (PM)   for a visit to the institute. PU vice-chancellor (VC) Arun Kumar Grover has made the attempts earlier as well but failed to get the PM at PU. This time, the proposal will be routed through K K Paul, governor of  , to release the stamp of his father and former vice-chancellor of PU R C Paul.

 The year 2019 is the centenary of Honours School system, which was started in the 1919 at Lahore, and is also the birth centenary of Prof R C Paul, who remained the vice-chancellor (VC) of PU for 10 years from 1974-84. PU is going release a stamp commemorating him on the occasion, apart from organising a three-day R C Paul symposium covering all frontiers of science. The centenary celebrations will be held in January 2019.
 
 The university will set up a R C Paul centenary committee to start the work. “I have suggested to Dr K K Paul that we should try to get Prime Minister Narendra   for the release of the stamp and to mark the celebrations of the Honours School system. We can have the stamp release on one day and have a centenary symposium on a subsequent day. We will set a centenary committee to start work,” said Grover. 
 
 Grover had sent a proposal to PM Modi in October 2016 inviting him for the varsity’s special convocation held on March 25, 2017, where honorary degrees (Honoris Causa) were conferred to former Union minister and   MP Prof Murli   and agronomist and geneticist Prof Gurdev Singh Khush. 
 
 Grover had, at that time, spoken to HRD minister   also to recommend the varsity’s case to the prime minister. However, PM Modi never visited the university.
 
 About Prof R C Paul
 
 Born in 1919, Prof Ram Chandra Paul was a professor of chemistry and served PU as a vice chancellor (VC) from 1974 to 1984. He died on February 16, 2002 after a brief illness. His sin K K paul is now the governor of Uttarakhand. On the centenary of the former VC, PU has decided to release a stamp to commemorate him.
 
 
