From beard grooming kits to stylish passport covers, there is a wide variety of gifts available to choose from for urban men. We list out 10 such unusual gifts you can gift your man and win his heart forever.

 
 A way to a man's heart is through his stomach. No matter how cliche this sounds to be, it is true. Try cooking his favourite dish and try out a romantic plating to set the theme for the day. For the motherly touch men look for in their girlfriend or wife, this idea is surely going to win his heart forever!
 
 
 These cubes made of soapstone or metal is the best option for men who take their drinks very seriously. Since ice cubes eventually dilute the drink, whiskey stones are a perfect choice. All you need to do is to freeze them and use it for your drink 'on the rocks'.
 
 
  
  
 Ranveer Singh,  , Saif Ali Khan, Shah Rukh Khan,   or  , our   celebrities have brought back the fashion of Bow Ties and suspenders. If your man likes to dress up as a dapper, get him a trendy Bow Tie or a stylish suspender.
 
 
 A lot of men prefer keeping an expensive customised pen. If your man belongs to this category, get him a customised pen. You can get his name, date of birth, his initials or even a motto he believes in cast on it.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 As formal jackets and coats gain popularity this season, you can gift him a stylish brooch or a lapel pin for an stylish appearance. From urban moustache to reindeer and regal crown to ferocious Puma, you can choose from a wide range of lapel brooches that suits his personality best.
 
  
  
 
 Beard is the new 'boy game'. Following the current trend, most of the men prefer to flaunt a well-groomed beard and so a grooming kit will work as the best option for gifting. Frim quirky designs to stylish basics, these kits will make a way into his heart for you.
 
 
 Made popular by Bollywood celebrities like Saif Ali Khan and Shah Rukh Khan, this trend is the new rage in the world of men's fashion. He can also use it as a brooch at few occasions!
 
 
 If your man prefers smoking a cigar, gift him a gorgeous cigar box. Markets are flooded with stylish cigar boxes, choose the one that best suits your man's style.
 
 
 Gift him a passport cover and put in a hint that you two must take an exclusive holiday soon. It is also the safest bet since he will need it all the time for his official travels. You can customise it with his initials or name or even his favourite quote and tag along in his memories.
 
 
