TRICHY: A portion of the pedestrian platform in the  , which was damaged recently, will be replaced with new reinforced cement concrete (RCC) slabs from Saturday to ensure the safety of road users. Accordingly, about 5,000 RCC slabs estimated at Rs 70 lakh will be laid over on both sides of the pedestrian   on the bridge. 

 
 The move comes after Lalitha, a 46-year-old pilgrim died after stepping on a cavity in the damaged pedestrian slab on April 17. Following the incident, the   (National Highways Authority of India) sought a report from Trichy - Padalur Tollways Private Limited, which has been entrusted to maintain the stretch till 2031. Subsequently, the company sought the help of an expert team from the civil engineering department of   (NIT) Trichy that gave technical suggestions after inspecting the damaged portion in April. 
 
 As per the suggestions, the company has planned to remove the existing slabs on the pedestrian platform on either ends and replace them with new RCC slabs. “Two stretches of pedestrian platforms each running for 630m on the left and right of the bridge will get new RCC slabs. Casting works to prepare fresh RCC slabs will be done near   toll plaza. Around 12 workers will be removing the existing slabs to install new ones,” an official with the company said. The entire work is expected to conclude within the next four months.
 
 Officials said that the expert team had suggested to pursue the old design for reconstruction work.
 
 Meanwhile on Friday, senior officials from NHAI including Gali Sreedhar, regional officer, NHAI Madurai inspected the bridge. “The regional officer was here for a routine inspection along Trichy - Madurai, Trichy - Padalur and Padalur - Ulundurpettai stretches,” an official with NHAI Trichy said.
 
 As reconstruction works on pedestrian platforms are expected to go on for the next four months, a team of four workers from the company and a patrol vehicle will be involved to ensure the safety of road users accessing the Old Cauvery bridge stretch.
 
 
