NAGPUR: Following the death of a 40-year-old two-wheeler rider Anil Raut in a road accident due to head injuries, the Nagpur traffic police started crackdown on the use of non-ISI helmets. Raut was wearing substandard helmet when he met with accident.

 “The police have caught around 260 two-wheeler riders for wearing substandard helmets,” said deputy commissioner of police (traffic)   S on Thursday.
 
 The cops launched this special drive in the city to implement the helmet rule and create awareness among the riders to only wear ISI-certified helmets.
 
 On Thursday, traffic cops stopped riders wearing non-BIS helmets which did not bear the ISI mark. The police officers issued challans on the spot and advised the two-wheeler riders to wear ISI-certified helmets. “We are taking action under MV act 21,” he added.
 
 “As a part of the drive, the cops are taking action against roadside vendors selling non-BIS helmets under section 102 and 117 of Bombay Police Act,” said the  . The traffic police are also planning to take action against shopkeepers selling non-BIS helmets. For selling substandard helmets, the sellers can be booked under section 420 of IPC. 
 
  works damage traffic signals
 
 DCP said around 42 traffic signals have developed snag due to ongoing Metro Rail works. “We have already informed the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s electrical department to rectify the snag and restore the signals,” he said.
 
 According to him, unplanned growth and lack of parking space are causing traffic snarls in many commercial areas. The traffic police have already suggested measures like creating parking plazas to resolve the issues. He said no corruption within the department will be tolerated and strict action will be initiated against traffic violators.
 
 Join Nagpur Traffic Clubs
 
 Chaitanya S, who assumed charge as deputy commissioner of police (traffic), appealed citizens to become members of Nagpur Traffic Clubs (N-TraCs) across the city. He said the traffic police have started the N-TraCs about nine months back and over 1,575 vigilant citizens have become members. The department has received 603 complaints on various traffic related issues like 316 of riders without helmets, 58 no-parking cases, 63 traffic jams, 16 on fancy number plates, 21 zebra crossings, 11 triple seats, 18 about encroachments and 100 other complaints. Acting swiftly, the traffic police have resolved 100% complaints.
 
 City police chief K Venkatesh had launched N-TraCs in June and invited citizens participate in active policing issues like unhindered vehicular flow, encroachment on carriageways, illegal parking etc
 
 Citizens can post complaints and sent photos and videos of traffic violation on WhatsApp number 9011387100 and twitter handle @trafficngp.
 
 
