CHENNAI:   women will have to raise their game considerably if they are to bid for the title at the 68th  . They succumbed to their third consecutive defeat in Group A, losing to   67-83 at   here on Sunday. As a result, they have finished fourth in their group and will have to now play either Uttar Pradesh or   in the pre-quarterfinals on Monday.

 
 Right from the first quarter, the hosts were chasing their distinguished opponents, who made it four wins out of four in the group stage. While it seemed like they could catch up at the end of the second quarter with Karnataka leading by just one point, the women from Karnataka took the initiative and ran away with a 66-49 lead that proved to be too much in the end. For Karnataka, skipper HM Bandhawaya led from the front notching up a phenomenal 30 points. Importantly, they also had Sanjana Ramesh, Priyanka P and Roshini Rosa John scoring 12 points each. TN, on the other hand, had no substantial contribution apart from Vandana Arya’s 12 points.
 
 Earlier, Uttarakhand men, who had won the title in Puducherry last year, got the better of Rajasthan 77-55 to seal second spot in Group A. Missing the presence of Amritpal Singh and Vishesh Bhriguvanshi this year, they have been hamstrung as a result but will be glad with the results barring their solitary defeat to group-toppers Karnataka. Yadwinder Singh, who scored 24 points, was the star on the day for Uttarakhand.
 
 Rajasthan, meanwhile, will have to settle for third spot. They tried hard to usurp Uttarakhand for the second spot but were second-best from start to finish. In another match in Group A, Kerala men overcame Odisha to finish fourth and will have to get past either Services or Chandigarh in the pre-quarterfinals.
 
 In Group B, the men from Indian Railways defeated Punjab 88-81 to claim second spot in the group behind hosts Tamil Nadu. Railways had given TN a tough fight on Saturday and seemed to take confidence from that as they overcame an equally strong Punjab side consisting of the imposing Satnam Singh.
 
