CHENNAI: In a setback to the   in Maduravoyal near Koyambedu, the   has restrained authorities from evicting squatters who claim to have been residing there for periods ranging from 10 to 20 years.

 
 A division benchof Justices M Venugopal and S Vaidyanathan passed the order on the plea moved by 24 residents of survey numbers 17, 89, 255, 552/2 and 632 in Ayanambakkam, Maduravoyal assailing the eviction notice dated February 13 issued by the revenue inspector.
 
 
 According to the petitioners, they have been residing in the place for more than a decade and have replied to the notices alleging encroachment. But without considering the reply, authorities are trying to evict them under the Tamil Nadu   They also wanted the court to direct the authorities to either issue revenue ‘patta’ to them or allot alternate accommodation equivalent to the area in possession within the territorial limits of Maduravoyal.
 
 
 Noting that as on date, there was no adverse order against the petitioners, the bench said, “The only grievance of the petitioners is that as they are residing in the place for more than a decade and some are residing for more than two decades, the request of the alternative site may be considered, if any of the persons are heldto be encroachers. This court cannot render a finding with regard to the alternative accommodation as the relief sought for to that extent is premature.”
 
 
 The court further noted that the Supreme Court, in a  , held that possessing  , ration card, electricity connection, and water connection, cannot be a ground for the encroachers to remain in the encroached place.
 
 
 Rejecting the request for alternative accommodation as premature, the bench directed the authorities to consider the request of the petitioners by giving an opportunity of hearing to them and to the complainant, if any, and thereafter pass detailed order under the act, within three months. The enquiry shall go on a day-to-day basis and shall not be adjourned beyond seven working days at any point of time. Furthermore, for a period of three months the possession of the petitioners in the properties in question shall not be disturbed, the bench said.
 
