In the latest episode of  , Kartik feels glad that Kabeer was helping out Shubham get out of the depression. Naira agrees. As she goes through her website, she comes across a critic who writes harsh words for her performance. Kartik challenges her to prove him wrong in his next dance. They see the comments and realise that one of her fans, Lucky Boy K (Kabeer) had replied to the critic, supporting Naira. We see Kabeer going to the critic's house and hitting him with a rod.
 
 
 As Dadi reads the comments on Naira's website, she worries. Manish asks Naira to be careful and not get stressed over it.
 
 Suddenly, a guy comes to the house, injured, asking to meet Naira. When Naira sees him, he apologises and says that he will never comment on her performance again. Kartik and Naira console him and realise that he was the critic.
 
 Kabeer goes through the comments and realises that Naira 'liked' his comment. He feels that Naira loves him too and says that he will not let anyone come between him and Naira.
 
 
  
 Manish brings a wheelchair for the injured person and calls for a doctor. Kartik asks him who did this to him. The critic says that it was one of Naira's fans, Lucky Boy K. He further says that Lucky Boy K came wearing a mask with Naira's photo on it and beat him badly. 
 
 Seeing the fan's behaviour, Kartik decides to block Kabeer from the page. When Kabeer gets to know this, he decides to take revenge from Kartik.
 
 Kartik tells Manish that they should file a complaint against the fan, Lucky Boy K. An angry Kabeer rams Shubham's car into the tree, causing an accident right outside the house. Everybody comes out. They take Shubham to the house, who faints during the accident.
 
 Kartik calls Kabeer and asks him about the accident. Kabeer says that he will come over to the house to see Aryan (Shubham) but Kartik asks him to not come. 
 
 Naira worries about her crazy fan and feels bad that the critic got hurt because of her.
 
 The next morning, Manish tells Shubham to accompany them to the office and be responsible. Naira tells Kartik that she would be attending an exhibition and decides to drop him to his office midway. Kabeer is on his way when he sees Naira and Kartik's car and decides to follow them.
 
 As Naira drops Kartik, her car's tyres puncture on the way. Kabeer finds her on the road and asks her what happened. He fixes the tyre for her, which he had punctured himself to try and get close to Naira.
 
 
