NAGPUR: By the end of this week, citizens can expect to enjoy a joyride on the   as MahaMetro has finally got the green light from Commissioner of   Rail Safety ( ). After its trial run on September 30, 2017, the safety certification for Nagpur Metro got entangled in red tape for over six months.

 After carrying out a safety inspection of metro’s at grade section, CMRS has awarded a safety certificate to the 5-km at grade (ground level) stretch from Mihan depot to airport south station. CMRS is an agency under ministry of civil aviation that certifies all safety aspects of a Metro rail project.
 
 
  
 
 
 MahaMetro managing director   said the first opportunity to ride in metro will be given to senior citizens, physically challenged and the underprivileged. According to officials, state Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis is expected to formally inaugurate the metro at month’s end. Post that, free joyrides will be provided to citizens but on invitation.
 
 Dixit further informed commercial operations of Reach 1 (Sitabuldi to Mihan) will start from March 2019. “We will try to complete the entire Metro project by December 2019,” he said. Almost 80% of the civil work for Reach 1 having seven stations has been completed.
 
 Apart from this, stretch from Lokmanya Nagar to Subhash Nagar of Reach 3 is expected to be commissioned by December 2018. The remaining stretch from Subhash Nagar to Jhansi Rani square will be commissioned by June 2019. 
 
 As already reported, the speed of Metro on at grade section will be restricted to 25 kilometres per hour (kmph) due to lack of requisite signalling systems. However, Dixit informed it will be increased to 40 kmph in three months. MahaMetro has got an in-principle clearance for the same and will send papers to Research Design and Standards Organization (RDSO) for approval. “After installing communications-based train control (CBTC) system, the limit will go up to 80-85 kmph,” said an official. Average speed of   in the nation is 80 kmph.
 
 The Central Road Research Institute (CRRI) will be conducting a noise pollution study to assess mitigation measures. “It will first be carried out at Central Avenue which has many old buildings. Experts will check if the noise from running Metro can cause any structural damage,” said officials. 
 
 Dixit said Nagpur Metro stations were being built as per international standards. “They will have a panic button which distressed passengers can press to contact the metro staff. The trains will also have similar buttons to stop it,” he said. 
 
 Dixit added the stations would have 100% CCTV coverage and special facilities like wheelchairs and ramps for senior citizens and the physically challenged. Recently, the Indian Green Building Council awarded platinum certificates to three stations of Khapri, new airport and airport south for facilities like rain water harvesting, use of natural material, less pollution, solar energy and landscaping. 
 
 
