MADURAI: The   division of the southern railway division showed positive start in the month of April 2018 in terms of commercial performance by dealing 42 lakh passengers as against 36 lakh during the corresponding period duly fetching earnings on passenger front of Rs 41.61 crore as against Rs 37.77 crore in the last fiscal.

 This was informed by the divisional railway manager, Neenu Ittyerah in her welcome address at the function organised to inaugurate lifts, Wi-Fi facility and an extension of the foot-over bridge by the minister for forest, Dindigul C Srinivasan in Dindigul on Sunday.
 
 She said overall division earnings have also gone up in April with Rs 61.82 crore as against Rs 54.14 crore in the corresponding period. In order to clear summer rush, 253 special trains have been operated for the convenience of the public.
 
  has more than 8,500 stations. It has always been the endeavour of the railways to provide adequate amenities to the passengers at the stations. Certain amenities are provided at the time of construction of new stations based on anticipated volume of traffic, said Neenu Ittyerah. Amenities are further augmented from time to time with growth in passenger traffic handled at stations, on the basis of the need felt, expectations of the travelling public and availability of funds, she added.
 
 Indian Railways, recently, have taken various steps to improve passenger services such as provision of lifts and escalators at the stations for facilitating movement across platforms. Battery-operated vehicles have been made functional for carrying passengers before/after the train journey, especially senior citizens and people with disabilities. Yatri Mitra Sewa for passengers requiring wheel-chair assistance, waiting halls and executive lounges to relax for passengers during transit and Wi-fi facility on important stations are few of the services introduced at stations, said Neenu Ittyerah.
 
  At Dindigul Junction, three passenger lifts, one at Platform No.1, 2 / 3 and Platform No.4 and 5 have been constructed at a total cost of Rs 1.5 crore, senior citizens, disabled and sick passengers will now be able to access the Platforms safely and conveniently, said Neenu Ittyerah. 
 
 Dindigul C Srinivasan said that the newly inaugurated facilities would benefit the senior citizens as well as younger people. It will largely benefit the people of Dindigul as well as tourists. Minister R B Udayakumar also spoke at the event.
 
 
