NAGPUR: Two months after two-time World Cadet   champion   cleared her maiden norm of becoming city’s first Women International Master (WIM), the 12-year-old scored her second high in Vietnam on Friday.

 
 City’s youngest Women Fide Master (WFM) cleared the second WIM norm in the 8th HDBank Cup International Open Chess tournament in the Masters category that attracted a participation of 133 players from 19 countries including 29 Grand Masters, 11 WGMs, 33 International Masters and five WIM.
 
 With an Elo rating of 2138, Divya entered as an 117th seed in the nine-round meet and came as a surprise for higher-rated masters to earn as many as 91.6 Elo points.
 
 Having earned a performance rating of 2339, Divya is just a step away of becoming city’s first and probably Maharashtra’s youngest WIM. During the Mumbai International Chess tournament in January, she achieved her maiden norm. To become a WIM, Divya now needs to clear just one more norm and maintain an international rating of 2200 Elo points.
 
 In a chat with TOI, an elated Divya said: “I got my desired result in Vietnam and now wish to clear my third norm quickly to become Nagpur’s first WIM.”
 
 Having surprised three higher rated title holders and after holding as many masters, Divya collected 4.5 points to finish the event at the 76th position. Divya not only scored an upset win over women’s highest title holder but also held a couple of WGMs.
 
 Divya’s coach and Chennai-based Grandmaster RB Ramesh, who has a long term goal for her, said, “Divya is very talented, very hard working and ambitious girl with lot of self-belief. We are not planning to create any records. She is focused on long term achievement and we are working towards it.”
 
 Divya said: “I was hoping to achieve the WIM norm here but had a bad start. Though I lost and drew some rounds but all these came against players who were higher rated than me. A fourth round win gave me a bit of confidence and I continued to give my best. I will rate my victories in the final two rounds as my best performance as these gave me what I desired for.”
 
 After losing her opening contest against experienced GM Bui Vinh of Vietnam, Divya played out a fighting draw with   in the second round. Having failed to utilize her opening advantage with the white pieces, Divya found young Vietnam’s FM Dang Son too tough to handle in the third round but as a born fighter, she made a comeback with the black bits to score an upset over Canada’s FM Vaingorten Yaaqov.
 
 A draw and a defeat in the following two rounds against   and WGM Mary Ann Gomes respectively brought fluctuating fortunes for Divya but she regained the momentum in the seventh round and gave fine finish to her campaign.
 
 Having held higher seed Vo Thi Phung and stunned WGM Hoang Thi Tram of Vietnam in the penultimate round, Divya upset countrymate M Kunal in the final round to clear the hurdle of 2200 Elo points.
 
