NAGPUR: Stating that the increasing number of public grievances on pollution is causing a “great turbulence” in its day-to-day functioning, the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board ( ) has constituted a third-party vigilance   to carry out surprise inspections in the state.

 Consisting of experts from the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (Neeri), Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), central or regional laboratory and board members, the team is initially being constituted for the jurisdiction of five regional offices of the board in Mumbai metropolitan region — Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Raigad, Thane and Kalyan.
 
 As per an order issued by MPCB member secretary P Anbalagan, the team, which will initially have a six-month term and can be extended by the board, will focus on highly polluting units generating toxic effluents and emissions, major hazardous waste and other pollutants. Apart from this, units against which complaints are received will also be monitored.
 
 The board is taking specific measures to safeguard the team’s functioning. As per the directives, the team will only act on “confidential directions” issued either by MPCB chairman or member secretary. “The team leader will submit an investigation reports in confidence within seven days. Such reports will be reviewed by the member secretary after which necessary action will be taken,” the order stated.
 
 With pollution becoming a proliferating problem, the initiative to set-up a dedicated third-party team is expected to assist the under-staffed board. The order mentions that the increasing number of complaints regarding air, water, noise, municipal solid waste, plastic waste and hazardous waste pollution in the state has not just resulted in piling up of Right to Information applications but also a spiral of grievances on public portal of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and state Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis. 
 
 Such complaints are inviting public interest litigations, writ petitions in high court and applications before the National Green Tribunal, the order added.
 
 After consultation with the head of concerned division, the team is at liberty to form an action plan and timeline. “The team can use sampling equipment and staff of the board’s sub-regional officers for sampling, document, verification and report preparation,” Anbalagan stated.
 
 
