LUDHIANA: In a crucial step to spread awareness about the use of eco-friendly plastic bags, members of Eco-Sikh — a US-based environment organization — on Saturday launched   made out of potato and corn/bio-based starch, to control rising pollution levels aggravated by the use of non-biodegradable plastic bags across India.

 The eco-friendly starch plastic bags were introduced at an event in Gurdwara Sri Dukhniwaran Sahib on Saturday, where heads of all major religions gathered to send out a message of peace and harmony, and create awareness about the use of eco-friendly products in day-to-day life.   Pollution Control Board (PPCB) members also shared the stage with Eco-Sikh members and heads of different religious groups.
 
  president Supreet Kaur, while addressing a packed gathering, said: “Eco-friendly plastic bags are the future, as pollution levels are increasing every day with the use of non-biodegradable plastic bags. These bags play a crucial role in controlling pollution levels across the globe. They have the capability to decompose naturally in 180 days when exposed to water or sunlight, or disposed of in garbage. Even if they are consumed by animals, they are not harmful to them. Moreover, the use of non-biodegradable plastic bags in religious places have increased in the recent past. Because of this, we have started this service from the gurdwara, so that people take this issue seriously, and make an effort to bring these bags into their daily use.”
 
 Speaking on the occasion, PPCB chief engineer   said: “Next month, India is hosting the World Environment Day on 5 June, under the theme ‘Beat Plastic Pollution’. PPCB will make all efforts to popularize the manufacturing and sale of bio-degradable bags on a large-scale, to overcome rising pollution levels due to the use of plastic bags. We are supporting every effort being taken to save the environment and future of the earth by different organizations.”
 
 Extending his gratitude to PPCB and the religious bodies — including Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib, Gurdwara Sarabha Nagar, Jama Masjid (Field Ganj), Durga Temple,  , and Sri Krishna Mandir — Eco-Sikh Board member Jaspreet Singh said: “The use of plastic bags has brought Punjab on the top in terms of pollution. According to past PPCB reports, Punjab produces about 4,300 tonnes of garbage every day, most of which is not recycled and ends up polluting the rivers and our soil. Looking at all statistics, these bags are the need of the an hour. Eco-Sikh has taken up the matter bio-degradable plastic bags, which will conserve nature and preserve our future.” 
 
 
