MUMBAI: Maharashtra   (Rera) recently directed a builder to repay with interest Rs 25 lakh, including a cash component of about Rs 4.5 lakh, paid four years ago by a buyer for a flat in Virar. The buyer wants to cancel his booking as the possession has been delayed by four years.

 The order underscores the importance of keeping copies of every document, including uncashed cheques, while buying property. It was a photocopy of a cheque that came to the rescue of Pradeep Bedre, who had booked a flat in ‘Shree Shakun Greens’. Shree Shakun Realty Pvt Ltd denied receiving the cash component. However, MahaRera member and adjudicating officer B D   relied on photocopies of cheques given for the same amount which were meant to be shredded once cash was received. Kapadnis also relied on the statements of Bedre and his wife that over Rs 4 lakh had been paid in cash in 2014. The buyer said the builder had taken an undertaking and also two cheques for the amount, promising to destroy both when cash was received. The Rera member held the buyer was entitled to recover payment with 10% simple interest from March 2015 and also Rs 20,000 as cost.
 
 The RERA member observed the buyer’s contention was “corroborated’’ by his bank statement which showed withdrawals of over Rs 3 lakh during the relevant time.
 
 The buyer had moved for refund and compensation as he wished to withdraw from the project since he said the builder failed to give possession on or before December 2014 as agreed while booking. Kapadnis did not accept the builder’s case that completion was not possible for “reasons beyond their control’’ and added that even if there was a delay, the law provided for a six-month extension under the Maharashtra Ownership of Flats Act which is still in existence and the builder could have applied for the same. The builder said green clearance was delayed as the environment department did not permit operation of the sewerage treatment plant. The builder also said occupancy certificate was pending since the   did not have proper infrastructure to grant   for a ‘high rise’.
 
 The Rera member, in his February 2018 order, observed, “VVMC, which approved the plans for the highrise building, ought to have set up proper infrastructure…’’ He added the state   had, in January 2017, issued directives requiring corporations and councils to “provide services regarding OC within eight days of receiving applications.”
 
