BHUBANESWAR:   is the   of Indian football. The older he grows, the younger he looks and acts on a football pitch. Having guided   to the Super Cup semifinal with a brilliant hat-trick against  , the 33-year-old India striker reflects on his life, marriage and role in the club as well as national team in an exclusive interview with TOI on Sunday.

 
 
 
 I’ve married somebody who I knew for 14 years. So, I’m just living with a friend. All through my ups and downs in football, from winning the I-League to losing the ISL final, she has been a source of great support. Nothing has changed barring the fact that we can now spend more time with each other. She lives in Bengaluru with me. When I travel, she goes back to Kolkata. She juggles it perfectly.
 
 
 This has been one of the best signings of my life, with due respect to all clubs. Joining BFC five years back was one of the better decisions I have made in life. Right from our owner (Parth Jindal) to ball boys, there’s always a positive synergy all around. I’m very happy to be part of all this.
 
 
 I’m no longer a striker now. When I signed up for BFC, then-coach Ashley Westwood wanted me to play on the left as an attacking midfielder. I was not sure initially but I believed in his vision. For the first six-seven games, I didn’t really know what I was doing. I was like a headless chicken. But he kept backing me. Eventually what he (Westwood) did was just wonderful and it helped me grow as a player. I started realizing the nuances of defending. I think I’m now a better defender and a better game-reader than five years ago. (Current BFC coach) Albert Roca has also added a few dimensions to my game. I’m not a winger as such, but am very happy to be a different player now. My age and experience have helped me grow into a more all-round player.
 
 
 No way. The day I think I’m not enjoying the game and contributing the way I would like to, I’ll hang up my boots. It may happen tomorrow or five years from now, who knows! I’m the fastest and the fittest now. It’s a good thought that I’m in the 30s and people are still saying I’m contributing to the game. At this age, it’s very important to be around with people who push you, who don’t let you relax. Even now, I burst my lungs to beat Udanta Singh, who is the fastest in the team (BFC). In training, I try to score against Gurpreet (Sandhu), who is certainly the best goalkeeper now. That’s how your surrounding helps you grow and stay focused. I’m lucky to be around people who always try to win and challenge each other to be the best.
 
 
 It’s too early to say anything about this. I’m far away from dreaming about those days. I’m very much enjoying my game. I’ll cross the bridge when I come to it.
 
 
 In 2011, we had a very stable team. Apart from me, Anwar (Ali), Mangi (Gouramangi Singh) and  , everyone else was already a pro.  , Sameer Naik, Mahesh Gawli and Rennedy Singh — they were all established pros, having played for the country for many years. But we are a younger and hungrier team now. Apart from myself, Paul and Jeje, the others are young and trying to establish themselves in the team. What’s important is that it’s a huge opportunity for all these young players. They must start working and focusing on the tournament right now. It must be top priority. It’s like the World Cup for us. If you want to see a steady growth of our country, you must play top teams regularly. This is how you will know where you stand in comparison to other top teams.
 
 
 There are a few, but nothing big. Like the loss to Chennaiyin FC in the ISL 4 final (last month). But I always believe that you are here to give your cent per cent. This is what is in your hands, the rest can take care of itself.
 
 
 There are many more like Leander Paes, Gianluigi Buffon, Javier Zanetti et al. The margin of success is so small that you have to be extremely disciplined. The older you get, the more disciplined you have to be. This is the lesson you take when you watch these athletes. Lot of players lose hope because of lack of motivation. These athletes give me hope as well as motivation to push the boundary further.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
