The more people made fun of him and bullied him, the more he channelized his pain and anger into determination. This   journey of a 21-year-old, Kshitij Sharma, was no less difficult than turning a rock. Many misconceptions about weight loss led to repetitive failures and made it harder for him. Not able to fit in the clothes he liked was another big problem. But his determination and refusal to fail finally helped him lose 30 kilos. Here’s his motivating journey from FAT to FIT

 
  Kshitij Sharma
 
 21
 
 
 112 kilos
 
 30 kilos
 
 1 year
 
 
  Aside from health reasons, a huge driving force in me wanting to lose weight was not being able to fit in clothes I liked. As silly as it might sound, I hated the fact that I couldn't dress the way I wanted, only because none of the stuff I liked came in my size. Shopping became a nightmare.
 
  6 boiled egg whites and 2 brown bread slices
 
  2 roti or rice + Daal or Sabzi
 
 6 egg whites or 100 gram paneer
 
  Butter chicken
 
  My weekly routine was
 
 
 
 Back and Biceps, 4 exercises each
 
 
 
 Cardio, which included:
 20 minutes: HIIT Treadmill (1min running and 30sec walk)
 15 minutes: Elliptical
 15 minutes: Cycling
 Jumping Jacks
 Burpees 
 Mountain climbers
 Skipping and other cardio and abs exercises
 
 
 
 Chest and Triceps, 4 exercises each
 
 
 
 Legs and Shoulders, 4 exercises each
 
 I was completely convinced that I would be fat and obese for life. "It runs in my family" is something I always believed in. I use to think that the only way to lose fat was by cutting out all the "bad" foods, making carbs your enemy and doing endless minutes of cardio. Then I researched for my own answers and found out that all the above was untrue. So today, I do weight train for six days a week, do a decent amount of cardio, and follow a flexible diet (80 per cent whole food and 20 per cent whatever). Search for answers, seek guidance and follow science based principles and you will achieve your goals. 
 
 
 
 
 Seeing the scale going down week by week was a big motivation for sure. Honestly I wasn't always motivated but I knew what I had to do if I wanted to be a healthier me. So, on the days I was motivated, I gave it all what i had and on the days I wasn't, I still gave the best I could. There were lots of ups and downs but I was able to keep myself going. It takes time as you will fail some days. Just keep trying and never give up.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Some of the persons I know never let me lose my focus. They kept demotivating and bullying me and kept making fun of me for my weight. The more they made fun of me, the more I channelized that pain and anger into determination.
 
 
 
 The most difficult part of being overweight is that people will never find you attractive and it's much harder to get into a relationship.
 
 
 
 
 10 years down the line I want to see myself fitter, leaner and stronger than ever.
 
 
 
 For me, when it came to  , the actual physical changes I had to make (eat less, move more) were much easier than making the mental changes. I believe for many of us who are overweight, the mental battle determines whether or not you will lose weight, keep it off, or just end up falling off.
 
 
 
 
 Be stubborn. It’s not going to be easy and it is going to take willpower - lots of it. Refuse to fail and you'll reach your goal.
 
 
 
