It has been over five years since the   has been continuously monitoring   activities across Punjab. But registration of 4,285 FIRs for unauthorised mining since March 2017 till date (around 11 FIRs per day) prove ineffectiveness of the police as well as district administration in ensuring a complete check on   of minor minerals. The menace also indicates mining contractors have backing of political masters.

 The high court in its orders in ‘Gurbir Singh Pannu v/s State of Punjab and Others’ on April 12, 2013, had passed strictures against Punjab government officers for allowing rampant illegal mining and not catching hold of masterminds. “The police, apart from lodging FIRs against drivers of trucks and tractor trolleys etc. are not pursuing the persons behind illegal mining as mining on such a large scale cannot be carried out by simple villagers/ drivers and requires financial muscle for purchase of excavators, trucks, tractors and a large labour force that would be financed by some persons of substantial means,” the high court had observed. The order reads, “The local administration and the police appear to be colluding/conniving, or turning a blind eye to illegal mining.”
 
 
 The then Punjab chief secretary Rakesh Singh had filed an affidavit in the court revealing a shocking state of affairs wherein a total of 1,619 FIRs were registered in various districts, with Ludhiana district taking a lead with 511 FIRs. After going through the affidavit of the then Tarn Taran deputy commissioner Balwinder Singh, the court had noted, “If averments in the affidavit about the concerted efforts to stop illegal mining had been true, 24 FIRs would not have been registered, of which four FIRs were registered in one day.”
 
 It was then that the high court had ordered constitution of a special investigation team. Thereafter, the SIT submitted various reports to the high court. The case is still pending.
 
 Illegal mining changes course of rivers
 
 There are instances in Punjab where unchecked illegal mining in riverbeds has even resulted in changing the course of a river and widespread erosion of cultivable land of nearby villages.
 
 The case of Parjian Biharipur village in Sidhwan Beth tehsil of Ludhiana district came to fore in August 2016 when villagers finally moved the high court, submitting their cultivable land of around five acres had been washed away due to mining in Sutlej. It was alleged M/s KBM Contractors had not only employed heavy machinery for loading trucks, but also utilized high velocity suction pumps and drilling machines operated with electricity generated by diesel generators. This exercise not only sucks sand from the limited riverbed up to three metres below the water level as per licence but due to contractor’s haste, he had indulged in digging up to 40-60 feet beneath the river bed, the complaint said.
 
 Taking a serious view, the high court in its July 20, 2017, order observed, “Though the spot inspection has been carried out on 2-3 occasions, prima facie it appears that the State Geologist and Assistant Geologist from the department of industries as well as officers of the state pollution control board are in collusion with the mining contractor. Nevertheless, one of the latest affidavits dated 14.12.2016 candidly admitted the multiple damages caused by illegal mining.”
 
 Thereafter, the high court ordered constitution of a committee of three senior officers from outside the state to inspect the site. The committee confirmed that due to illegal mining, the course of the Sutlej had changed. “If unchecked, meandering river course at this site will erode agricultural fields and even the embankments resulting in inflow of river water into villages which will lead to damage to both life and property.”
 
 The panel suggested that for the purpose of in-stream sand mining, using suction method in rivers must not be allowed.
 
 On the last date of hearing, the high court directed the state government to submit a proposal to give effect to the committee’s suggestions in a time-bound manner, including amendment in the rules or policy.
 
 
 
 Action against illegal mining in Punjab has not deterred the mafia from continuing its activities despite vehicles and machines being impounded regularly in the last several months. The fact that the mafia had tried to run over a mining official during his inspection visit near Shambhu in November highlights audacity of illegal miners operating in the state.
 
 Immediately after a chance spotting of illegal sand mining by chief minister   near the River Satluj while travelling on a helicopter, the administrations of all the districts in Punjab have again become active and have started to check illegal sand mining in their jurisdictions. A bird’s eye view of what is happening in districts across the state:
 
 
 
 
 Illegal sand mining was flourishing both in the Beas and Satluj in Tarn Taran district, but has come to a standstill for now.
 
 Tarn Taran additional deputy commissioner Sandeep Rishi said the district only has one official sand quarry in Jalloke village, which is currently closed. The process to auction another quarry at Munda Pind, near Khadoor Sahib, is underway. Some illegal activities had been observed in Jalloke, Verowal and Gagrewal villages, he said. “In recent past, we seized 22 tippers yet some small-time operators carry on illegal activities. We have registered FIRs against them.”
 
 
 
 
 Checking has been intensified at the Jammu-Pathankot barrier for any illegal movement of sand across the state border, Pathankot mining officer Gagan said. Special checkpoints have been set up to check illegal mining in the Ravi and Chakki. On Tuesday, the mining department had got an FIR registered against illegal sand mining and equipment was seized.
 
 
 
 “We are on the job. Only yesterday, we seized 6 tippers and a loader. They tried to flee to adjoining Pathankot district, but we followed them and got an FIR registered against them,” according to Gurdaspur deputy commissioner Gurlovleen Singh, who added that every tractor trolley was being monitored for weight.
 
 
 
 
 In last three years, around 200 FIRs have been registered in illegal mining cases, said Ropar deputy commissioner Gurneet Tej. “In the last one year, we have registered 45 cases of illegal mining. Two district-level vigilance teams have been constituted, which include senior district officials, and these conduct regular raids on illegal mining sites. We are also registering cases against those who are overexploiting authorised mining sites. In the last one week, three cases have been registered against the accused for overexploiting the sites that are authorised for mining,” she added.
 
 
 
 
 Sensitive areas from where frequent cases of illegal mining have been reported in the past have now been put under constant surveillance, said Patiala deputy commissioner Kumar Amit. The district administration has also provided two helpline numbers where people can report illegal mining. In last one year, he said around 88 cases have been registered related to illegal mining in Patiala district.
 
 Ferozepur Out of 22 mining sites in Ferozepur, 14 have been suspended and there is mining activity only at three sites of Badala, Chukatewala and Changli, Ferozepur district industry centre general manager Gurjant Singh Sidhu, who also holds the charge for Faridkot and Moga districts, said. “We are properly carrying out weighing of the each and every truck, trolleys carrying sand. Few trolleys were confiscated two days ago. No mining is being allowed after stipulated time,” he added.
 
 
 
 
 Four sites are in operation in Fazilka district and three have been suspended, according to deputy commissioner Isha Kalia. “We had detected some overloading in past few days and sites have been put in suspended animation. No laxity is being tolerated,” she said.
 
 
 
 
 In Faridkot, mining at Doad and Jandwala has been suspended, said district industry centre general manager Gurjant Singh Sidhu.
 
 
 
 
 In SAS Nagar district, illegal sand mining has been going on unabated in the areas of Khizrabad, Mullanpur, Zirakpur and Derabassi despite 40 illegal crushers being seized in a raid by the deputy commissioner in Khizrabad in July last year.
 
 “Illegal mining is ruining the forest cover and the land of our village. Deforestation is alarming and we have been raising the issue with administration, but till date no action has been taken. Over 30 to 40 tipper trucks operate every night from Khizrabad area and there is no one to check the operations,” former Khizrabad sarpanch Sher Mohammad said.
 
 “Ground officers are to be blamed for no vigil on illegal mining. Junior officers of all three departments — forests, revenue and panchayati raj — have not performed their duties. We will also question them for not informing officials about the activity on time,” deputy commissioner Gurpreet Kaur Sapra said.
 
 
 
 
 Two cases of illegal mining have been detected till now. In September, mining contractor who had permission for Tarapur village of Moga district, was actually mining in an area in Jalandhar district. A case was registered at Shahkot police station and the Moga mining officer was asked to get pillars raised for clear demarcation. On February 23, an excavator and a JCB machine were seized close to Baghela village.
 
 
 
 
 There is no legal mining site in Kapurthala, but four cases of illegal mining, including two on Thursday, have been detected. On February 17, a team caught a loaded tractor trolley along with a person in Ahlikalan village and on the same day, during a late night raid in Baghuwal village near the Beas an excavator and a tractor trolley were seized and three persons were arrested.
 
 On Thursday, deputy commissioner Mohd. Tayyab caught a loaded tractor trolley in Faridpur village and found 25-feet deep mining in privately-owned agricultural land in Khijarpur village.
 
 With inputs from Yudhvir Rana, Manish Sirhindi, Neel Kamal, IP Singh, Barinder Saluja
 
 
