BHOPAL: Aware that simmering anger among farmers reeling under impact of poor crop output and low returns can rock the BJP boat in assembly election year, the government is likely to announce major sops for them at a mega farmers’ rally. The rally, to be held in the state capital on February 12, aims at collecting feedback on its ambitious Bhavantar Bhugtan Yojana (price difference payment scheme). More than one lakh farmers are expected to take part in the rally and the state government is learned to have drawn a proposal to provide benefits — including loan waiver to defaulter farmers. The proposal is sent to the secretariat for final approval of chief minister  , sources said, adding, the scheme would benefit more than 6 lakh farmers in state.

 Chouhan is learned to have disclosed at a closed-door official meeting on Wednesday that the government would reach out to farmers on its agriculture schemes for their feedback during the Kisan Sammelan. During meet,CM said registration of   crops would begin soon and the government would announce benefit to farmers under Bhavantar Bhugtan Yojana, sources said.
 
 Sources disclosed the government is all set to announce benefits under the Krishi Rin Samadhan Yojana, a loan waiver scheme launched on June 7 last year to provide debt relief. Besides the loan waiver, farmers repaying principal amount would get bank loan at zero percent interest, sources said. In view of ongoing bypolls in Mungaoli and  , the government has not announced sops so far.
 
 Though farmer welfare and agriculture development minister   refused to disclose the plan except for saying the government might come out with big relief after bypoll in two assemblies. “Kisan Sammelan is aimed at interaction with farmers as we are eager to provide maximum benefit of Bhavantar scheme to the peasants. It is up to the chief minister to provide an additional benefit for financial assistance to the farm community after the by-polls,”   told TOI.
 
 Registration under Bhavantar Scheme for year 2018-19 will also begin in 3,500 primary agriculture committees from February 12. This will continue till March 12. CM will transfer difference in bank accounts of registered farmers at Kisan Sammelan.
 
