HUBBALLI/DHARWAD: Former chief minister and BJP leader   and JD(S) candidate Rajanna Koravi filed their nominations for Hubballi-Dharwad Central constituency while Congress candidate Prasad Abbayya filed his papers at Hubballi-Dharwad East on Monday. 

 Shettar, his wife and other family members prayed at the Ganapathi temple in Uday Nagar, the Hanuman temple at Nagashettikoppa, Raghavendra mutt in Bhavani Nagar, Kamakshi temple and at Sai Mandir near Court Circle in the morning. MP Pralhad Joshi and other BJP leaders accompanied them.
 
 The procession Shettar and hundreds of his followers reached Sai Mandir near Court Circle. From there Shettar, his wife Shilpa Shettar, Joshi and others went to the HDMC office. 
 
 Former MP Vijay Sankeshwar and deputy mayor Menaka Hurli joined them after which Shettar proceeded to file two sets of nomination to returning officer Ibrahim Maigur. Joshi and Hurli signed as proposers in the two sets respectively.
 
  Later, Shettar said people would elect him once again for sixth time. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Karnataka in the first week of May and his tour programme is being chalked out, he added. 
 
 JD(S) leader Koravi filed his second set of nomination after arriving in a procession along with hundreds of workers from Siddappaja mutt in Unkal. Koravi, accompanied by former minister and MLC Basavaraj Horatti and other JD(S) leaders, visited Eshwar temple in Eshwar Nagar, a dargah at Bairidevarkoppa, Kalmesh temple and Durgadevi temple in Hosur and then reached KC Circle to file his nomination at the HDMC office.
 
  Later, Koravi said, "People are fed up with the current situation and are looking for a change. Since 25 years no development work was done in the constituency." He added that he would start a ward stay programme from Tuesday. 
 
  Abbaiyya, sitting MLA at Hubballi-Dharwad East, filed his nomination as a Congress candidate at the tahsildar's office. Hubballi-Dharwad City Congress president Altaf Hallur, NWKRTC chairman Sadanand Dhanganavar, Moulali Kumatakar and Satish Meharwade accompanied him. 
 
  Santhosh Lad yet 
 
  to file papers 
 
  Labour Minister Santosh Lad who represents Kalghatagi did not file his nomination on Monday. He is expected to do it on Tuesday. 
 
 C M Nimbannavar, an aspirant for a BJP ticket filed his papers as an Independent and also as BJP nominee without submitting the B form.
 
  In Hubballi-Dharwad West, both Gururaj Hunasimarad and Altaf Kitur claimed to be the official JD(S) candidates and filed nominations. JD(S) sources said the party had finalized the name of Kittur after giving B form to Hunasimarad and it will inform the returning officer accordingly. 
 
 As many as 34 candidates filed their nomination for seven assembly constituencies in Dharwad district on Monday. The papers will be scrutinized on Wednesday. 
 
 Vinay Kulkarni, sitting MLA Prasad Abbayya, former MLAs S I Chikkanagoudar, Shankar Patil Munenakopp and BJP candidate Amrut Desai are prominent among them. 
 
 Some of these leaders had earlier filed their papers but filed another set on Monday.
 
 
