CHENNAI: For M K Stalin, who went through the stifling emergency trauma at a much younger age, nothing has come easy. Despite years of toil, at best, he got to be deputy chief minister and now, a working president of the  . Even the anticipated alternative Dravidian government in the politically bipolar  , eluded him and his party in 2016, when the AIADMK, under late J Jayalalithaa, created political history in nearly three decades to successfully retain power for a second term.

 That was only the beginning as Stalin let go one opportunity after another - starting with the death of Jayalalithaa, the short-lived OPS term and the overnight emergence of a new one under the stewardship of EPS, now completing a year in power. May be the seasoning over decades for having to wait for everything in the party and government had made Stalin a habitual expectant – one who doesn’t force things to happen, but expects things to fall in place.
 
 Now, there is more for Stalin to ponder over, than EPS himself. In 2016 elections itself, Stalin had everything going in his party’s favour to stitch together an alliance with Vijayakant’s DMDK. In an election, where just about 1% of vote differentiated between the winner (AIADMK) and the loser (DMK), the alliance would have mattered a lot in sweeping a change. But, that was not to be.
 
 To be or not to be has been a question that Stalin kept facing since then and for reasons best known only to him, he was never seen ‘to be,’ taking the right decisions when it mattered. Instead, he and the DMK chose to play the noble role, not coming to power through any undemocratic means. When all is fair in war and love, can politics be different? A seasoned politician should know that it is better to strike when the iron is hot. Instead, he left that decision to the judiciary, which is now taking time to deliver verdict.
 
 One should consider two factors, to try and understand Stalin’s own predicament, points out political analyst G  . “After 2016 elections, lots of young and neutral voters were seen gravitating towards the DMK. That’s a new constituency of voters that the DMK got in decades and retaining them becomes an issue for the DMK leadership now. They were also converting the impossibility into a moral position,” says Satyamurthy.
 
 “The DMK could have forced a no-confidence motion, but I don’t think they could have won. The moment EPS smelt that some AIADMK members would cross-vote, they would have been disqualified, just as they did later. Alternatively, if a failure was evident for such a motion, the rebel MLAs would have switched over to the EPS side. As a result, instead of winning, a DMK move would have helped EPS consolidate himself. With the ball now in the judicial court, at least there is 50% chance of keeping the battle alive for the DMK, instead of losing steam much ahead of an election,” says Satyamurthy.
 
 With that hope, the prince continues to wait, even as the political arena in Tamil Nadu gets crowded with the entry of actors   and Kamal Haasan, with an aim to chip away whatever be their share of the political pie.
 
 
