TRICHY: At least 50 per cent of the Bharathidasan University’s ( ) revenue is being utilised for meeting the expenses of its 10 constituent colleges most of which were started at the behest of the state government. However, with the state government no more supporting the running of these colleges, the university is left to fend for itself. Pushed to a corner, the senate meeting scheduled for March 17 is set to take up this issue as well as that of the government not compensating the university for ceding its land and immovable assets for setting up premier institutes like IIM Trichy. 

 The approved resolution to be discussed at the senate meeting urges the BDU administration to either hand over the colleges to the state government or seek exclusive funds to run them. Some senate members have also asked the BDU to seek pending compensation from Anna University for giving its land for the BIT campus. 
 
 “A majority of the cost incurred to run the constituent colleges is met though the general fund of the university,” said senate member V Rajagopal while pointing out that there was a rule that the government would give Rs 1 crore and 10 acres of land to the university to start a constituent college. While the rule was followed only for the first constituent college started in Perambalur district, it was ignored for the nine other colleges. “With 50 per cent of the university revenue going into running the constituent colleges, they have now become a huge liability for the university,” says Rajagopal. 
 
 However, the head of a department said that the university was equally responsible for the mess. “If government approval was received for only five courses, the BDU kept on adding courses. Some colleges have even over 20 courses which were started under pressure from local ministers. But operational cost including salary for staff has to be borne by the university,” he told TOI.
 
 The other pressing matter was the immovable assets of the university being given away to make ways for other institutions. While   (BIT) was started by BDU on 350 acres, it was handed over to Anna University with 1 lakh sq ft built-up area. It was built using the BDU’s general fund, but no compensation has been received by the university yet from the government. Similar is the case with  . The state government as a policy decision gave over 250 acres of land to IIM without compensating BDU.
 
 Though it is being pointed out that one government department did not have to compensate another, former president of Association of University Teachers (AUT) K Pandiyan said that on one hand the state government took over assets of BDU without compensation. On the other hand, it increased the university’s liabilities by starting constituent colleges without adequate funding. Such policy decisions had adversely affected the university’s financial condition.
 
 The senate members have demanded that Bharthidasan University seek at least Rs 5 crore from the Anna University for the land and the infrastructure that was created with the general fund. V Rajagopal said that the university was exhausting its fixed deposits to meet the expenses and if relevant steps were not taken, it may go the   way. 
 
 Meanwhile, the BDU is planning to take up with the state the pending compensation for the land given to Anna University’s BIT campus and improving avenues for revenue. Registrar   said that the university was awaiting a call from the higher education secretary to discuss on the BIT campus land issue. “We have been trying to find new avenues to enhance the financial status of the university. However, all these discussions are in the elementary stage and would take time to get a clear picture,”he told TOI. 
 
 
