When Sophocles wrote the story of Greek tragic hero, Oedipus, in the 5th century BC, he asserted that man can never overpower fate. 

 Oedipus, who was abandoned by his parents, unknowingly kills his father, marries his mother and later blinds himself in repentance when he realises the truth.
 
 Isn’t it an old story, did you ask? Well, the KPAC team led by Manoj Narayanan and   have rewritten the mythical story to fit into the contemporary society. The play titled Oedipus was performed recently in Kochi. It garnered a lot of appreciation from the audience for its narrative style and technological inputs.
 
 Kalesh, the scriptwriter of the play, tells us, “We have made the 40-minutes play Sophocles into a two-and-a-half-hour one. In this one, we try to prove that neither fate nor destiny can hinder a man’s willpower. It is man’s actions that decide his future. You can call it karma too.”
 The play is performed by 20 artistes including Kalesh. “Seethamma plays Oedipus’ mother Jocasta. Artistes Rajkumar, Nakulan, Kanidar, Yadhavan, Vimal Joy, Shaji Aluva and K P Ullas too have prominent roles,” says Kalesh.
 
 For the audience to connect easily with the characters of the play, the team has given them a local touch. “In the real story, there is a Sphinx who asks riddles to the travellers. In our version it is a rakshasi,” he says.
 
 The play also questions people’ beliefs in predictions and fate, with a touch of sarcasm. “If Oedipus’ parents King Laius and Jocasta had not believed in the predictions, they wouldn’t have abandoned him and King of Corinth, Polybus wouldn’t have adopted him. If Oedipus knew Jocasta was his mother, he wouldn’t have married her nor killed his father,” he says.
 
 The play also questions the lack of virtues and values in the current generation. “People today don’t have the values that Oedipus had. The moment he realised that he has killed his father and married his mother, he repents. We doubt how many would repent their deeds these days,” he says.
 The play being an adaptation of a Greek myth, the team was a bit skeptical initially about its reception. However, Kalesh says the audience are receiving it really well. “We were hoping to perform this play in at least 40 stages. Now, we have completed 75 performances and going by the responses, we are sure we will complete 100 stages,” signs off Kalesh.
 
