Prashanti Singh, one of the most successful shooting guards and Arjuna awardee, was felicitated by the state government in Lucknow on Republic Day, on the occasion of the   celebrations. Prashanti, who hails from Varanasi and has been to Lucknow several times, was quite happy to have been honoured by the state government. "When I got a call that UP Diwas is being celebrated in Lucknow for the first time, and the government is felicitating top athletes and sportspersons from the state, and I was the only woman athlete, I couldn’t say no," shares Prashanti. The   player although mentions that the arrangements at the felicitation ceremony could have been slightly better. "If this is going to be a routine affair every year, I feel this needs a bit of review and polishing. Our award ceremony of the state can be and should be like that of the Arjuna or the Padma awards. We can reach that level. I personally feel that the day and the timing should be set for every year and people should stick to it. Plus the categories can be increased and more people can be included in such awards. The location of the felicitation ceremony also should be either the CM office or the Governor house. It will add to the weightage of the award. Ek shuruaat ho gayi hai and ab aage cheezein behter ho jayengi. I am sure people will wait for UP Diwas awards in years to come," suggests Prashanti. 
Being a Banarasi, Prashanti says she came all prepared for Lucknow ki sardi. "Banaras and Lucknow ka weather almost same hi rehta hai. So even though the weather was extremely cold the next day, I came all prepared for it. Also, I have been to Lucknow several times before as I have attended many camps here and also have a lot of relatives in Lucknow. Lucknow is a beautiful city which is continuing to grow by leaps and bounds. The parks, the infrastructure, everything has become so grand in Lucknow. Aur haan ab toh Banaras bhi bahut change ho raha hai. It is now becoming better, day by day," says Prashanti.
 
  
    in Lucknow (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) 
 
 While Prashanti feels that maximum athlete style icons are cricketers, athletes in all sports can be style icons. "Athletes work out so much and take such a diet that invariably they have a well-built physique and figures. Cricket mein style icons zyada hote hain because unka jo board hai that is on a different level and does a lot for the promotion of the players. For women athletes, in most of the sports, there is a lot of struggle to get promoted on a level where we endorse brands. Most people still think that men are more saleable. Take for example the case of the women Indian cricket team, which was in news for sometime and now again they are out of the scene. So the struggle for women is more, especially in sports. Plus, my federation (Basketball Federation of India) is quite old-school types, they don’t feel the need to update themselves in marketing their players," she rues.
 Prashanti, who will be tying the knot with her childhood friend, a basketball player from Varanasi, says she is enjoying the courtship period. "My younger sister recently got married in Bangalore, so there is still some time for my marriage. Although I will be getting married this year,” says the pretty sportsperson, adding that the courtship period is full of fights. “The unfortunate part is that we both are still like best buddies. We still address each other as ‘kya be, kya haal?’ We have played the under-13 tournaments together. Hum dono ne ek dusre ke daant tootate hue dekhe hain. So there is nothing girly girly types in our relationship, which I sometimes miss. You will be shocked to know that we haven’t gone on a date together, ever. Everything is very different and weird between us. Very unlike a couple about to get married!"
 Ask her about the status of the biopic on her family which is in the pipeline and she shares, "Two more filmmakers have approached us for a biopic on the Singh family. While a few are big banners, one is a new director. Talks are on on the sharing of the movie’s earning. A lot of people on whose life movies were made, were not paid enough from the movie’s share. So we are just being cautious by learning from others’ mistakes."
 — Akash.Wadhwa@timesgroup.com
 
 
