SHIMLA: Former IAS officer Deepak Sanan, who served as principal advisor (administrative reforms and training) during the previous   government’s rule, has accused former chief minister   and some IAS officers of “grave illegalities and irregularities in revenue-related matters” between 2013 and 2017.

 In a letter to chief secretary Vineet Chawdhry, Sanan has demanded registration of vigilance cases against   and officers named by him.
 
 Sanan has questioned the then Virbhadra-headed state cabinet’s April 2013 approval to purchase land under HP Tenancy and Land Record Act for constructing a hotel in   by going against the advice of law department. “The preceding case history brings out an unconstitutional decision taken by the cabinet in 2007 and then again on April 13, 2013. Also, this decision resulted in loss to the public exchequer and gain to a private person. Therefore, it constitutes an offence under the Prevention of Corruption Act,” he said.
 
 He said the then principal secretary (revenue) did not inform the cabinet that it was not competent to take any decision which violated constitutional provisions as pointed out by the law department. “The then chief secretary and the then principal secretary to chief minister have also been complicit in this cabinet decision, since the decision was taken in their presence,” he said.
 
 Sanan also raised the issue of Tenzin Hospital, Shimla, wherein Tenzin Construction Company Private Limited was granted permission under Section 118 of the HP Tenancy and Land Reforms Act on June 7, 2002, to purchase 471.55 sq. metres of land in Kasumpti-Junga Mohal in Shimla to construct a company office and residential colony, but the said company built a private hospital on the land, instead of using it for the purpose for which permission was obtained by it.
 
 He said the matter was reported as a violation of land laws, and the district collector passed an order on January 16, 2012, for vesting the land and property in the state government. The party went in appeal to the divisional commissioner, who remanded the case to the district collector for a fresh decision, he added.
 
 He said the company submitted an application to seek permission to change land use from office and residential colony to the already functioning Tenzin hospital. He said the then principal secretary (revenue), Tarun Shridhar, kept the case for approval before the then CM, stating that permission for change of use from office and residential colony to private hospital be allowed as it would be of greater public benefit than the existing allowed use. The CM approved the change, he added.
 
 He said these actions too fell within the ambit of an offence under Section 13 (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act (PCA).
 
 He said a cabinet note was approved on July 17 last year to allow regularization of leases in Dalhousie town with a reduced stamp duty of 3% on registration. The exemption was carried out under Section 9 of the Stamp Act, which allowed the state government to make an exemption for a class of persons. “However, despite legal and financial implications, no consultation was carried out by Tarun Shridhar before placing the matter before the cabinet on July 17, 2017. The then chief secretary, V C Pharka, as secretary to the cabinet, is also at fault,” he added.
 
 Sanan said no clear approval of the chief Minister was obtained to exempt securing views of finance and law departments in advance. He said both officers should be asked to explain why action should not be initiated against them. Chief secretary Vineet Chawhdry said he had received the letter from Sanan and forwarded it to secretary (revenue) for action.
 
 
