KOLKATA : Bengal transport department is all set to beef up security at jetties and implement stricter vessel operations to ensure safety of passengers.

 The department has come up with standard operating procedure (SOP), which includes manning jetties, ensuring passenger count doesn’t overshoot vessel capacity and presence of a lifeguard on each vessel, said a senior transport department officer. Jetties in and around Kolkata may also get CCTV camera surveillance.
 
 Kolkata river traffic police has decided to issue a number of security measures for vessels which host private picnics on the Hooghly. The decision comes amidst the efforts to trace Floatel executive director Arindam Bose, who went missing from a similar vessel last Saturday.
 
  
 “We have asked such vessels to have life jackets and buoys. In fact, we are talking to the state transport department about fixing the maximum number of passengers to be allowed on a picnic launch,” said an IPS officer, adding, that safety measures being implemented in other centres are kept in mind while framing the policy.
 
 “We are aware that CCTVs cannot be installed on such vessels. Under such a situation, we would want the sareng to tell us the route before the journey. One of the highlights of these rides is that liquor is often served on board. We want a clearcut policy regarding alcohol consumption and would ideally want to ban it. We will discuss our observations with all the stakeholders involved,” added the official.
 
 The police also want to ensure that only the 110-odd vessels which have “fitness certificates” are permitted to operate on the Hooghly. Transport department officials suspect other vessels, without any documents, might be in business. “There is no system of checking if a vessel carrying a picnic party has a certificate. That’s the work of the river traffic police,” said a transport department official.
 
 Even earlier, instructions were issued to boat owners and boatmen after the death of a   student.   fell from a ferry near   in November 2016. It was made mandatory for all ferry operators to make passengers wear life jackets.
 
