NEW DELHI: Twelve days after being rescued from his   by police,   doesn’t let  , the family pet, leave his side. The five-year-old seems to   only with the   around. He doesn’t go out to play with friends and there is a visible delight on his face when he spies the beat constable doing his rounds.

 “Vihaan saw two men being shot by police from his hiding place under a bed,” Sunny Gupta, Vihaan’s father, explained. “He still doesn’t know that Nitin Sharma (the mastermind) was arrested and often asks us to call ‘police uncle’ to catch the man.”
 
 Having spent 12 days in captivity with his three abductors until his rescue on February 5 from Sahibabad, the boy is still dealing with the trauma of the separation from his parents. His family tries to keep him busy to divert his thoughts, but every now and then he goes to his father and mother and asks about Sharma, seeking assurance that he will not take him again. Sharma had been apprehended by police and was outside the house when Vihaan saw the cops shooting dead one and injuring the other of the remaining kidnappers.
 
 The family is seeking the help of a psychiatrist for both Vihaan and his sister, who was present in the van when the boy was spirited away. Shikha Gupta, the mother, hasn’t probed how the boy feels. “We don’t ask him nor does he say anything on his own. We don’t discuss the kidnapping either because Vihaan become visibly uncomfortable,” she said. The boy spends his days watching cartoons on TV or playing with his sister and Kittu. “The doctors tell us that Vihaan will slowly forget about the incident and the best way to do it is to keep him preoccupied with activities he likes,” revealed Shikha. “We will start the psychiatric counselling sessions soon.”
 
 After consulting the teachers, the Guptas have decided to send Vihaan to school from Monday. “We cannot keep him in the house forever. His education is also important,” felt the father. “His teachers are also worried about him and are eager for him to resume his studies. We don’t want to keep him in the limelight any longer. The sooner things normalise, the better it will be for both our kids.”
 
 The grateful family visits a temple every day to offer prayers. “If it was not God’s will and the sustained efforts of the cops, we might never have seen Vihaan again,” the father said.
 
 Recalling the events of January 25, he said, “I got a call 15 minutes after I had put him in the school bus. My immediate thought was that the vehicle had met with an accident. But when I reached the spot, my daughter was in tears and said that someone had taken Vihaan away.” A few days later, a shopkeeper neighbour of the Guptas, received the first call from the kidnappers, asking him to connect them to the boy’s father. The kidnappers had apparently got the shopkeeper’s number after clicking a photograph of the signboard outside his shop.
 
 The family got to know about Vihaan’s rescue operation only after he was in police safekeeping. “At 1:06am on February 6, I received a call from a police officer,” Sunny recalled. “All sorts of negative thoughts came to mind.” He gingerly took the call to be told that the son had been rescued.
 
 
