JAIPUR: Despite inviting tenders thrice, the   ( ) has failed to attract bidder for foot overbridge (FOB) on National Highway-8 (Jaipur-Delhi). 

 On 225-km highway, the NHAI has proposed to constructed 23 foot overbridges in Rajasthan including some parts of Haryana to reduce crashes and fatalities. “The estimated cost to construct all the FOBs is Rs 60 crore. As no bidder has shown interest to construct these FOBs the dates have been extended again,” said a senior NHAI official. 
 
 The request for proposal (RFP) was released in October 2017 to develop the FOBs on engineering, procurement and construction ( ) basis. 
 
 It was informed, that NHAI organised a pre-bid meeting in November 2017, however, not many bidders participated.
 
 “We have proposed to complete the project in nine months. There is a delay in absence of takers,” added an official.
 
 As per the terms and condition of the agreement, the developers have to maintain the FOB for five years after construction. However, the clause is discouraging the contractors. 
 
 Meanwhile, to reduce incessant traffic jams on toll plazas situated at  , Jaipur-Delhi Road (NHAI) has expedited the work to increase the number of lanes.
 
 As per the proposal, NHAI on NH-8 will expand the toll plazas at Manoharpur from existing 12 lanes to 26 lanes. 
 
 The busy toll plaza witness massive congestion throughout the day leading to increase in travelling time. As a way out all the points will now have 26 lanes instead of 12. A senior NHAI official informed TOI, nearly 10 hectares land at Manoharpur, Jaipur-Delhi Road has been acquired for expansion of toll lanes. “We are planning to complete the expansion work by March.” said the official.
 
 Frequent travellers on this road have maintained that during peak hours, on all these tolls, lanes it takes nearly 45 minutes while in normal traffic it takes 15-20 minutes. 
 
 The official, the whole stretch connects Delhi with Mumbai and is one of the busiest roads in the country. “The toll plaza is witnessing increase in traffic and waiting has significantly enhanced. Expansion will allow restoring normalcy and will reduce time at toll considerably,” added the official.
 
 
