Puducherry:   Council for Science and Technology along with the Pondicherry Science Forum has made elaborate arrangements to view the total   from 6pm to 9pm on January 31, through telescope and slideshows, at various places in the Union territory.

 People can witness the celestial event from near Gandhi Statue on the Beach Road, Dr Abdul Kalam Science Centre and Planetarium, Helipad at Lawspet, Satya special school at Pillaichavady, Eswaran Koil Street, Krishna Nagar, Nonankuppam boathouse, Government higher secondary school in Katterikuppam, Karikalampakkam Kottai Thidal at Villianur and Bahour granary office. 
 
 An eclipse on the   (second   in the same month) is very rare. It occurs after a span of 152 years. A total lunar eclipse on the blue moon last occurred on March 31, 1866. This will be the first blue moon for 2018. The second blue moon for this year will be on March 31.
 
 The total lunar eclipse on January 31 will occur from 6.21pm to 7.37pm, followed by partial lunar eclipse from 7.37pm to 8.41pm and penumbral (partial shadow) eclipse from 8.41pm to 9.38pm. 
 
 The full moon will also be the last of the two supermoons this year (earlier one was on January 2). 
 
 A supermoon is a full moon that approximately coincides with the closest distance that the moon reaches to earth in its elliptic orbit. The moon on January 31 will appear slightly bigger as it will be at the closest point from earth (3.64 lakh km) on its elliptical orbit.
 
 The eclipse will be visible in India, most of western  , eastern Asia, Australia and the Pacific Ocean. Lunar eclipses can be observed without telescopes from an open space. Observing a lunar eclipse with naked eyes will not cause any harm. Another total eclipse of the moon in this year can be seen in India on the night of July 26 and on early hours of July 27.
 
 A lunar eclipse occurs when the moon passes directly behind the earth. It can occur only during particular full moon days when the moon comes diametrically aligned to the sun and the earth. Only rarely the moon reaches the imaginary line connecting the sun and earth and crosses the earth’s shadow in space. When the entire disc of the moon crosses the darker shadow, the eclipse is known as a total lunar eclipse.
 
 
