BENGALURU: Revathi, 11, suffers from Gaucher's disease, a  , for which she needs to take life-saving injections every fortnight. However, government departments are passing the buck to release money for her treatment. 

 Gaucher's disease, a   characterised by accumulation of fat on organs and tissues, is caused by deficiency of a particular enzyme that breaks down fat molecule. The absence of enzyme-replacement therapy can damage the patient's liver, brain and spinal cord.
 
 Revathi underwent surgery for removal of her spleen five years ago and since then has been on enzyme-replacement therapy once every fortnight at the   (IGICH). But from January 20, she hasn't been able to go there as the government is yet to release funds for her treatment.
 
 She is among 20 children waiting for the government to release Rs 8 crore for their treatment. February 28 is observed as Rare Diseases' Day to create awareness about such diseases. 
 
 "Revathi was well till the fifth year. But gradually, we noticed her tummy swelling up. We took her to a couple of government hospitals and finally learnt she was suffering from a  ," said her father Shivashankar G, a weaver from Yelahanka.
 
 Prasanna Shirol, executive director, Organization for Rare Diseases India, says lack of communication among departments is affecting children with such disorders. "As per the national rare diseases policy, the Centre gives 60% of the fund and the state has to contribute the rest. The children have also petitioned the Karnataka high court," said Shirol. 
 
 Departments pass the buck 
 
  After constant follow-up with the health department, parents of these children were told the money would be released by the medical education department. Revathi's treatment costs Rs 75 lakh per annum. 
 
  TOI has a copy of the January 17 letter from the health and family welfare department to the medical education department, asking the latter to "take care of the children with lysosomal disorder that comes under your department". 
 
  However, Dr S Sacchidanda, director, medical education department, said the money has to be released by the health department. "We have no money. The health department can directly release funds to IGICH," he said. 
 
 
