Leave aside those expensive spa memberships, caviar-soaked wraps, diamond dust facials and fancy massages. The solution to a glowing face and zero stress may lie in something as simple as the abundant sunlight around you or even a little bowl that emanates sound. That’s right. These are alternate healing  , simple in nature and yet one of the most go-to cures the world over, of late. 

 
 
  
  
 
 Sound therapy is an ancient healing tool and small Tingsha bells and Tibetan bowls that have their roots in the past make for a unique remedy. They involve taking a ‘sound bath’ where you are surrounded by sound vibrations that are meant to heal one’s body. Several centres in India are dedicated to this technique. The sound apart, the key factor here is also the intention to heal, where experts maintain that you must ‘want’ to receive the good vibrations for the cells to get rejuvenated. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Unlike its name, the gong shower has nothing to do with water or actually having a bath. Instead, a gong is rung or sounded for stress relief and it uses sound therapy to facilitate healing. The term bath/shower means one is enveloped in the sound energy it gives out. This is said to alter the brainwave activity of the person and ease him/her into a relaxed, meditative state. The therapy has become so popular that you now have gong shower parties abroad.
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 They’re not just pretty to look at — different crystals also have different energies and beneficial properties that are said to enhance the mental and emotional state. From calcite to blue sapphire, hematite, quartz and more the crystals are said to give out calming positive vibes. Crystal therapists ask the person to lie down and then he or she places crystals on specific parts of the body with an aim to bring about healing and a flow of energy. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 This Japanese mantra also popularly known as ‘shirin-yoku’, is the latest in the world of   therapies. It involves immersing oneself amongst nature or ‘natural bathing’ among the greenery, to feel re-energised. It means walking in the woods, spending time under trees or just taking in the sights, sounds and smells of a forested atmosphere. It is meant to make one slow down and de-stress. Experts say this may now be considered a form of medicine.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Once used to tune musical instruments,   give out strong vibrations and are used by massage therapists, chiropractors, healers and yoga teachers. It involves a qualified practitioner applying the fork on various acupressure points or 
  on the body with an aim to decrease pain and discomfort. Each fork is said to yield a sound waves with a fixed number of vibrations per second. This realigns the inner rhythms, bringing about healing and a fresh energy.
  
  
 
 
 
 
