MUMBAI: Days after TOI reported that the number of train tickets sold daily at   has dropped by nearly 30% over the past five years, it has emerged that   on the Western Railway network has seen an equally sharp fall of almost 27% in the same period.

 
  
  
 
 
 In fact, the latest WR figures show   have gone down at a majority of stations between Churchgate and  , while 4 out of 7 stations on the Dahisar-Virar stretch have recorded an uptick.
 
 This comes as yet another confirmation that Fort, Ballard Estate and Nariman Point have made way for other areas as workplace hubs. WR officials attribute the rise beyond Borivli to a population shift to these areas outside BMC’s jurisdiction owing to affordable homes and the resultant emergence of shopping and entertainment centres.
 
 The 2017-18 figures show daily ticket-buyers from Churchgate to be 96,000 as compared to 1.3 lakh in 2013-14. Charni Road, the one-time diamond trading hub, too has witnessed a drop of 16,000 commuters every day. Even Lower Parel and Elphinstone Road have recorded a 5% and 6% fall respectively despite Parel being a key jobs centre, as the count is from originating stations (where tickets are bought).
 
 Kandivli is an exception with an 11.2% increase, the rise in Khar is minor at 1.82%, while Mahim and Matunga have just about retained their numbers.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 The biggest spike is in Nallasopara (26.07%) and Naigaon (23.8%). WR chief PRO Ravinder Bhakar said apart from affordable housing in the Vasai-Virar civic body limits, malls and multiplexes have come up in these areas. “People avoid train travel as most of their needs are met closer to home,” he said.
 
 But growth in Mira Road and Bhayander stays more or less the same. Ex-member of National Rail Users’ Consultative Committee and Bhayander resident Shailesh Goyal said, “Trains come in packed from Virar, so it is hard to board at Mira-Bhayander. Most people here now use shuttle services offered by cab aggregators to reach their workplaces.” Fear of accidents – which claim 8-10 lives on the suburban network every day -- is another factor, Goyal said. “Many people use two-wheelers to get to Borivli, from where they board the train as frequency there is much better.”
 
 Sales in Kandivli are up as it is the penultimate station en route to Borivli, said Divisional Railway Users Consultative Committee member Mayur Overseer. “Commuters board a Borivli local from Kandivli as it gets converted into a Churchgate local at Borivli station,” he said.
 
 Growth in areas like Malad, Goregaon, Vile Parle and Borivli has dipped. Goregaon resident Mayank Soni said, “A relative had enrolled her elder daughter in a Vile Parle college. But for the younger daughter they have chosen a local college as train journey is risky.”
 
 The overall numbers are still better compared to the previous year, an official said. “In 2016-17, there were 35.19 lakh commuters; today, we have 35.50 lakh.” WR officials said this is also due to Metro work which is causing traffic jams, forcing many to take the train for a swifter commute.
 
 
