PATNA: The state government on Sunday launched several new services, including online land mutation system and e-way bill facility and made all bridges made by the state government   tax free. Installing speed governor has been made compulsory for all commercial vehicles to acquire fitness and permit from Sunday onwards.

 Deputy CM   launched the e-way bill mechanization system in  . The e- way bill is now mandatory for inter-state movement of goods worth more than Rs50,000. The e-way bill, to be generated through www.ewaybill.gov.in, is free. Officials said the new mechanism has been implemented to track the movement of goods from one place to another in the country.
 
 Land and revenue department’s principal secretary Vivek Kumar Singh told this newspaper that online land mutation process commenced in majority of the 534 circles in the state and the remaining would also be covered in a few days.
 
 “The online land mutation for 46 pilot circles in urban areas was initiated in December last year. Kishanganj was the first district to implement online land mutation, followed by Arwal, Sheikhpura, Sheohar and Samastipur. Madhubani, Nawada and Begusarai are next in line. Online land mutation process started in over 200 circles by March 31,” Singh said.
 
 He said the records for online land mutation were being continuously migrated from the districts to the main server. “Till now, we have received over 2.05 crore revenue records (jamabandi). And over 28,000 villages have been fully digitized,” Singh said.
 
 The state government has also stopped collecting toll tax on 54 bridges constructed by Bihar Rajya Pul Nirman Nigam Limited (BRPNNL) from Sunday. The collection was discontinued as per a directive by CM Nitish Kumar. Road construction department minister   had made an announcement in this regard in the assembly on March 12.
 
 Apart from this, Aadhaar card has been made a valid document for acquiring a driving licence from April 1. “Although it is not compulsory, it has been included in the list of documents to be submitted at the time of applying for a driving licence,” transport department secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said on Sunday.
 
 
