AHMEDABAD: The Rector’s Bungalow, a British-era teakwood and stone bungalow constructed in colonial style in the year 1900 in   campus, is in the eye of a storm again as the college authorities allegedly tried to raze the structure to make way for another project at the spot. A few conservationists halted the demolition on January 3 after contacting the civic authorities.

  The college authorities claimed that the said structure is not in any heritage list and is already posing danger due to its dilapidated condition.
 
 The bungalow, located near the cricket and sports ground on the campus of the 158-year-old college, was surrounded by a garden and peripheral structures such as servant quarters and watchman quarters. At the moment, these structures have been demolished. Sources at the campus said that demolition had started and a small portion of entrance was already broken down when conservationists intervened and involved a local politician and senior civic authorities to stop the work.
 
 P K Ghosh, chairman of   (HCC) of AUDA, said that they had already written a letter in May 2017 about the subject. When they learnt about the proposed demolition, another letter was sent to multiple authorities including city municipal commissioner, district collector, commissioner (higher education) and state archaeology director among others on January 1.
 
 “After we came to know about the demolition work at the Rector’s Bungalow in Gujarat College campus, I contacted the principal. He has promised to halt the work immediately and we are meeting for the issue on Friday,” said Ghosh.
 
 The letter dated January 1 reads, ‘It is very sad to know that despite our request made in above said letter to drop the idea of demolition of the 117-year-old Rector’s Bungalow at the college campus of  ... This building is included under the heritage list of   which needs to be retained in its original form as per accepted conservation norms.’
 
 Arunendra Singh Rathore, principal, Gujarat College, told TOI that the issue is being stoked by persons with vested interests. “We sought permission for demolition before the heritage list was prepared and it does not find mention in any list — be it AMC or ASI. We are proud of our heritage campus and one can see how the old monuments are preserved. The bungalow in question is in dilapidated condition and poses danger for students and staff, and thus the decision to raze it was taken,” said Rathore.
 
 
