SANTINIKETAN: Scorching heat and water scarcity took the sheen off the high-profile convocation ceremony at   on Friday. There was an unprecedented ruckus as the students scampered and fought for water pouches during the event. Prime Minister  , the chancellor of the university, addressed the problem in his speech and apologised for the incovenience.

 
 “As the Acharya of the university, it is my primary responsibility to ensure that basic facilities are provided with. I apologise for the water scarcity,” Modi said at the very outset, thereby creating an immediate connect with the audience. According to a district adminstration official, 10,000 people attended the convocation and there was water arrangement for 6,000.
 
 Thereafter, Modi’s speech was all about Indian culture and Rabindranath Tagore’s contribution to it. He traced the roots of Tagore’s dream child Visva-Bharati in the country’s ancients scripts — the Vedas and the  . “The world is a nest…is what the Vedas teach us. Tagore’s dream of a ‘Visva Bharati’, where the world comes to nest, is no different! This is the crux of our nationality,” Modi said.
 
 What hurt the ears in the otherwise sombre ceremony was the usual “Modi, Modi” chant that one comes to hear in political rallies. Equally embarrassing was the breach of security at such a high-security programme when a person made it to the dais at the fag end of the programme to touch his feet and offer him a Tagore’s memento.
 
 While paying tribute to the ‘punyabhoomi’ — Aamra Kunja, where the poet spent most part of his creative life — the Prime Minister said: “Kobigurur smriti bijorito Santiniketane shobaike sashruddha pronaam…shantirnir e eshe ami atyanta shanti anubhav korchhi(I welcome all of you to Santiniketan, which is steeped in the memories of the bard. I feel blessed in this peaceful place).” The words in Bengali struck the chord among the ashramites.
 
 Calling Tagore a “global citizen”, Modi said that it was through his visits that most Indians got to see a glimpse of the world, their cultures and tradition. Throughout the world, Tagore is still the most venerated Indian and he is widely studied. “The moment you talk about  , you remember his Kabuliwala. Sometime ago, even in remote Tajikistan, I unveiled a Tagore bust,” Modi said, reminding that Tagore even had a close relationship with Gujarat where his elder brother was commissioner and where he got his life’s first higher English education at the age of 17 and penned his ‘Kshudhito Pashan’.
 
 The Prime Minister lauded Visva-Bharati for adopting 50 surrounding villages. “In 2021, you will be a century old. I expect you to adopt anything between 100 and 200 villages and see that everyone has electricity, gas connection, toilets, and are digitally connected,” he said.
 
 Acknowleding the presence of Bangla PM Sheikh Hasina on the dais, he went on to add: “Our two nations are looking forward to a shared future of cooperation and growth. Hence, we are trying to establish the Bangladesh Bhavan so that we can collaborate in the fields of culture and education. We look forward to co-operation in the field of public policy as well.”
 
