DUBAI: The 2018 edition of the Women's   will be hosted by   and Barbuda, Guyana and   from November 9-24, the   has announced.

 
 Hosts Windies will defend the title they won with an eight-wicket victory over Australia in Kolkata in 2016.
 
 Stafanie Taylor, who was named as captain of the ICC Women's T20I Team of the Year 2017, won the player of the series award in India and is expected to once again lead the Windies in front of a passionate home crowd.
 
 The three venues were selected by Cricket   through a bidding process and have been ratified by the ICC.
 
 The preliminary round matches will be held at the Guyana National Stadium and Daren Sammy Stadium in St Lucia, while Sir Vivian Richards Stadium in Antigua and Barbuda will stage the two semi-finals and the final.
 
 ICC Chief Executive   said: "Windies women are the reigning champions and I've no doubt they'll be looking to defend their title on home soil.
 
 "We are keen to build on the momentum from this summer's Women's World Cup and I'm sure the players can rely on a warm welcome from the legendary cricket fans in the West Indies and we're all in for a great experience in the  ," he said.
 
 Windies captain   added: "As captain of the defending champions, we are keen on defending our title and since we know we will be at home, we want to use this as an opportunity to welcome the world to the region for top-class competitive Women's cricket."
 
 The hosts will be joined by Australia, world champions England, New Zealand, India, Pakistan, South Africa and Sri Lanka who have all achieved qualification.
 
 The remaining two spots will be taken by Bangladesh, Holland, Ireland, Papua New Guinea, Scotland, Thailand, Uganda or United Arab Emirates, all of whom will compete in the ICC Women's World Twenty20 Qualifier in the Netherlands from 3-14 July.
 
 The November event in the Caribbean will be the first stand-alone ICC Women's World Twenty20 after the past five events were played alongside the men's event.
 
 The Caribbean hosted the World Cup in 2007 and then staged the World T20 in 2010 when the league matches of the women's tournament were played in St Kitts, while St Lucia hosted the two semi-finals.
 
 The final in Barbados was played after the men's final and was won by Australia when they beat New Zealand by three runs.
 
