NAGPUR: Considering threat to tigers from ‘illegal’ brick kilns operating in   in Kalmeshwar forest range, 30km from Nagpur, the revenue department has declined permission to one of the units to manufacture 7 lakh bricks.

 TOI, on February 21, had reported how Katlabodi tigers are facing threat from ‘illegal’ brick kilns encroaching upon forest land and those surrounding forest area. There are at least 9 brick kilns in Nagpur (rural) in Kalmeshwar range, where there is regular movement of resident population of 4 to 5 tigers. Some tigers even share Katlabodi territory with Bor Tiger Reserve (BTR). These tigers are grown-up cubs of dominant Katlabodi tigress re-released in the wild in February 2011.
 
 In February, Kalmeshwar range forest officer (RFO) Nilesh Gawande had seized 3 lakh bricks produced on forest land by owner Anil Barai from Wadi. An offence was also registered under Indian Forest Act 1927.
 
 During the same period, Barai had made fresh application to grant permission to extract 500 brass soil to produce 7 lakh bricks in Bhuyari village.
 
 On March 22, Nagpur (rural) tahsildar Sushantkiran   rejected Barai’s application seeking permission to produce 7 lakh bricks on his 2.56 hectare agriculture land.
 
 Bansode told TOI that permission to Barai was rejected as his land and brick kiln is close to reserve forest. “The forest department has already registered an offence against him for encroaching upon forest land to manufacture bricks,” he said.
 
 The forest officials have also apprehended that there are chances that their land will be further encroached if permission is granted for brick kiln.
 
 Bansode added the owner will have to seek NOC from the forest department. “Other brick kilns near forest will also have to seek NOC from the department,” he added.
 
 These brick kilns are located near Khairi, Ladhai, Bhuyari, Satnavri and adjoining reserve forests in   round of Kalmeshwar. The brick kiln owners are allegedly involved in illegal extraction of sand (needed to make bricks) from perennial water sources in the area.
 
 
