RANCHI: Former   chief minister and RJD chief, who once headed the railway ministry, is prepared for a longer stay in Ranchi, though behind bars. He was mentally prepared for the long stay by his legal advisors recently on court campus when he had arrived in connection with the Doranda treasury fodder scam case.   is learnt to have expressed his disgust over the helplessness, following which his counsel sought a directive of the court to CBI to dispose of the cases fast. 

 "Even the apex court has directed the CBI to complete the fodder scam related cases within a given time frame and accordingly, all cases should have been completed by February 8, 2018," said Prabhat Kumar, Lalu's counsel in Ranchi. The legal advisors of the RJD chief want the special CBI courts to pass its verdict in the two remaining cases of fodder scam-RC47A/96 and RC38A/96 so that if the outcome is not in favour of their client, they can challenge the orders and apply for bail petitions together.
 
 In total, Lalu has been indicted by the CBI in six cases of the fodder scam out of which five are in   and one is in Bihar. He has been sentenced in three of them whereas two are in different stages. Lalu had managed to obtain bail in the RC20A/96 case related to fraudulent withdrawal from Chaibasa treasury on December 13, 2013 from the  , but the criminal appeal before the Jharkhand high court is pending for hearing. 
 
 Early this year, he was again convicted and sentenced for 3.5 years in RC64A/96 related to Deoghar treasury by the special CBI court of Shiv Pal Singh on January 6. His counsel filed a bail petition with the Jharkhand HC but it is yet to be heard. Even if Lalu manages to obtain bail in this case, he is not going to come out of the jail because he has been sentenced for another five years in the third fodder scam case --RC68A/96 by special CBI court of S S Prasad on January 24. 
 
 It was after this verdict that things became clear to the RJD chief and that he will be in jail for a longer time. "He is concerned about the affairs of the party and has expressed confidence in the leadership of  ," said Bhola Yadav, close aide of Lalu and MLA from Bihar, who was present in court. 
 
 The fourth case of fodder scam RC38A/96 related to withdrawals from   treasury using fake bills is in argument stage and both the parties are putting in their best efforts. The fifth case RC47A/96 related to Doranda treasury is, however, relatively slow in progress and prosecution witnesses are recording their statements. "We are ready to cross examine five witnesses at a time," Lalu's counsel told the CBI court in desperation for quick disposal of the cases during the last hearing on Saturday. 
 
 In the January 24 conviction, Lalu's legal team is yet to file bail petition and held discussions the RJD chief on whether he was ready to wait for some time till the verdict of RC38A/96 is out. Sources in RJD, however, said the team has been asked to file bail petition and challenge the order of the subordinate court at the earliest possible. "We are going to try our best and have left the final decision on God because Lalu is a leader of the poor and downtrodden and God will help him," Bihar RJD chief Ram Chandra Purve told TOI over the phone.
 
 
