NEW DELHI: In a significant suggestion for the uplift of denotified tribes (DNTs), a national commission has said the Centre should carve out sub-quotas for DNTs across the reserved categories of SCs, STs and OBCs, to enable them to take advantage of job and education quotas.

 The National Commission for Nomadic Tribes chaired by Dada Idate is learnt to have argued that denotified, nomadic and semi-nomadic tribes — spread across SCs, STs and OBCs — are at the bottom of the socio-educational ladder and thus unable to compete with other Dalits, tribals and backwards for jobs and education.
 
 “DNTs are part of these reserved lists but they get nothing. The Centre should carve out sub-categories DNT-SC, DNT-ST and DNTOBC, with dedicated sub-quota for them,” Idate told TOI. It implies that a part of job quota for SCs, STs and OBCs be earmarked for DNTs.
 
 While sub-categorisation of SCs and STs may prove complicated, Idate said it can done immediately among the OBCs since the Centre has already formed a commission headed by Justice Rohini Kumar to sub-divide the central list of OBCs according to the developmental status of member communities. “The panel should put all DNTs together in the ‘most backward’ category that it will create for the OBCs,” Idate said.
 
 The   submitted its report after three years of research to junior social justice minister   on Monday. Seeking “destigmatisation” of denotified tribes, the panel has recommended that the Centre repeal the Habitual Offenders Act of 1952.
 
 The British had enacted the Criminal Tribes Act of 1871 which was argued to have been framed to check the activities of “criminal tribes”. It was repealed after independence but Habitual Offenders Act was enacted by independent India. It has long been lamented that erstwhile “criminal tribes” continue to face the stigma of “criminal tendencies” under the Habitual Offenders Act.
 
 Also, the panel has called it an “anomaly” that a tribe is known by different name in different states, urging the Centre to initiative a survey to bring about a uniformity.
 
