MARGAO: South Goa police has drawn up a plan for the new year to intensify its crackdown on drug dealers and consumers, and acting tough against violators of the tenant verification exercise.

 Speaking to reporters, South Goa SP, Arvind  , on Monday said that all the incharges of police stations have been instructed to ensure that both the exercises yield the desired results in the shortest possible time.
 
 As regards tackling the drug menace, Gawas said that the focus of the police will be on strengthening the intelligence network in the district. “We have been working on building the intelligence network over the last five-six months, and we have been fairly successful at it. We, now, have informers from among the public who will provide the intelligence inputs to the police about the activities and movement of drug consumers and peddlers. Our focus will be on strengthening this intelligence network and acting on the specific inputs received,” Gawas said.
 
 As the culprits can be booked only if they are found in possession of the banned narcotic substances, Gawas said that the trick lay in intercepting the peddlers while they are on the move to deliver the consignment. “And that is where intelligence plays a significant role,” Gawas said, exuding confidence of a positive outcome in the coming months.
 
 In the year 2017, South Goa police booked 60 cases under   and Psychotropic Substance (NDPS) Act and seized   worth over Rs 29 lakh, as against just 13 in 2016.
 
 As regards the tenant verification exercise, Gawas said that the aim was to ensure 100 percent compliance of the district magistrate’s order across all police stations in 2018.
 
 “We have devised a method that entails each beat constable visiting all such houses in his respective beat, which have been let out for accommodation of tenants, migrants and employees. The constable, himself, will get the tenant verification form – seeking all particulars of the tenants - filled in by the landowner. Those house owners failing to comply with the requirements will be prosecuted,” Gawas said. 
 
 In 2017, 742 cases were reported to the sub-divisional magistrate for prosecution under Section 188 of the CrPC, it was informed.
 
 Gawas said that information obtained from the tenant verification exercise helps the police in checking the antecedents of those persons and thereby to keep a tab on the activities of persons with criminal background.
 
 
