The amphitheatre at   played host to the country’s best breakdancers, or B-Boys – as they are also called – when 16 dancers from across India battled it out in the India finals of the BC One Cypher, a global B-Boy championship. Popular in India as breakdancing,   is an artistic and athletic street dance form popular in Europe and America. The BC One is a global championship that holds regional and national contests across the world, with the winners getting a chance to participate in the world finals.

 
  
  Southkid
 
 
  
  16 dancers from across India battled it out in the India finals of the BC One Cypher, a global B-Boy championship. The winner, Mumbai’s Flying Machine, whose real name is  , won the contest and will represent India in the BC One World Finals in Zurich in September
 
 
  The 16 finalists for the India finals had been selected by international champions, who scouted local talent in preliminary rounds in five Indian cities. The competitors then faced each other off in a knock-out format of one-on-one battles. In each battle, both the finalists had two throwdowns, i.e., an opportunities to challenge their rival through a performance. After four throwdowns, the judges delivered their verdict on which of the two would move on to the next round. After three rounds of intense acrobatic battles, B-boys Antique and Flying Machine moved to the finals, where Mumbai lad Flying Machine emerged victorious. For the dancer, whose real name is Arif Chaudhary, this was his third win at the national finals. “It is the biggest competition for us in the country and I’m proud to have done well enough to beat all the other guys, who are quite talented,” he said. The Mumbaikar will now represent India in the BC One World Finals in Zurich in September. 
 
 
 
  
  FLIP OUT! Skilly
 
 
  The judges were quite impressed by the Indian dancers. Brazilian dancer and 2010 world finals champion Fabiano Carvalho Lopes, who goes by the stage name Neguin, said, “The b-boying scene in India is great. Everything here is on the up and the guys have a lot of potential. So, I’m so happy to be here every time and see them growing.” 
 
 
  
  The audience cheered for Delhi-based dancer B-Boy Demon
 
  The fans were amazed at the dance moves. Akshat, a Gurgaon resident, said, “I have never seen anything like this live; only seen stuff like this on talent shows on TV. So it was quite incredible to see all these guys live.”
 
 
  
  The icing on the cake for the audience was when the judges (L-R) Lil Zoo, Neguin and Ronnie took to the stage to flaunt their dance moves
 
 
  
  Korean dancer Hong 10, who was one of the judges
 
  
  B-Boy Wild Child, who was the runner-up
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
