TRICHY: Collective farming, the success mantra prescribed by the state government, has run into rough weather with agricultural operations going haywire owing to poor water management. However, farmers have generally welcomed the plan pointing out that it can work with effective water management system. 

 Officials have clarified that the existing schemes and projects which are available for irrigation and water management would continue for collective farming also. In view of the importance of collective farming for small and marginal farmers, the state government had launched a pilot project to make them avail of these benefits and thereby increase their income and livelihood. 
 
 According to officials, collective farming facilitates credit mobilisation, better adoption of technology and effective forward and backward linkages. Data shows that out of 81.18 lakh farm holdings, 92% are held by small and marginal farmers. As part of the project, the small and marginal farmers would be organised into 2,000 Farmers Producer Groups (FPG), which will be federated into 200 Farmer Producer Organisations. 
 
 Among the various measures taken by officials in   as part of promoting collective farming, a buyer-seller meet was organised for the sake of the FPGs under the scheme. They could make their best choices in purchasing farm machinery utilising the Rs 5 lakh subsidy allotted by the government.
 
 Though officials are in the process of executing the system irrespective of topography, farmers say that the scheme is best suited for rain-fed areas. In Trichy, most of the 14 blocks such as Thuraiyur, Uppiliyapuram, Manapparai, Marungapuri, Manachanallur, Vaiyampatti are rain-fed, they point out. However, the GO (MS) No 164 issued by the state government and the comprehensive guidelines issued for implementation of collective farming had no mention of the word water.
 
 V Panneerselvam, 58, of   and a member of  , said that collective farming was needed at this juncture. “As small and marginal farmers are struggling to take up cultivation due to various factors, collective farming will help us use machinery like a tractor or power tiller free of cost. We can generate money by letting them for rent. The cost of seed, labour and fertilizer would considerably come down”, he said.
 
 However, he was sceptical about irrigation, sharing of water and the water management system going to be adopted. This, they had not even discussed among the members as well as with officials so far, he added. Most of the members echoed the same.
 
 When contacted, the deputy director of agriculture and state nodal officer of ATMA, Chennai, S Shanmugam, said that the existing irrigation system would be applied for collective farming too. “So far we have been adopting micro irrigation system using drip irrigation, rain gun and pipelines to water crops. That would be adopted for collective farming system also, though nothing had been mentioned. When the Farmers Interest Group becomes  , we can execute new water sharing and water management system in a big way”, he added.
 
 
