KOLKATA: A   after dropping her daughter to school on Friday lost her right hand after being hit by a   while trying to cross the road. The   occurred just days after a   lost both his legs in a   on Strand Road.

 Police have initiated a severe culpable homicide not amounting to murder (IPC 308) case against the accused driver and taken him in four days of custody. The initial bailable IPC sections were amended after CCTV footage revealed the bus driver had violated multiple traffic rules that led to the accident. A hunt has begun for a second bus driver who “contributed to the accident”. 
 
 The accident was reported around 9.20am on Friday from the Theatre Road-AJC Bose Road crossing. The victim, identified as Karaya Road resident Sabina Akbar (31), was reported to be extremely critical. She was admitted initially to CNMC Hospital before being shifted to CMRI Hospital.
 
 “Her condition was extremely critical. We had to operate and amputate her right hand as there was excessive blood loss and it was the only way to save her. She is still critical and might need further operations to be stabilized,” a CMRI spokesperson said.
 
 According to witnesses, the woman had left home on Friday to drop her daughter to school. While returning, she boarded a bus on route 230 — plying between Kamarhati and Alipore zoo — and tried to get off in front of the Trimurthi petrol pump. The accused driver stopped the bus right in the middle of AJC Bose Road, throwing caution to the wind. 
 
 When another bus on the same route tried to race ahead by overtaking on the left, it hit the woman. “The buses were plying from the Sealdah side and moving towards Beckbagan. The woman fell after being hit. The second bus driver then drove over her right arm,” an pan shopowner in the area said.
 
 Police, however, claimed the signal had turned green by the time the victim tried to alight from the bus. 
 
 “We have arrested the driver and confiscated the bus. We have registered a case at the Shakespeare Sarani police station to send out a message that traffic violations will not be tolerated any more. The police are looking into CCTV footages to ascertain the exact sequence of events,” said an officer from Shakespeare Sarani police station.
 
 The victim’s family has demanded strict norms to keep errant buses in check. “It is pretty certain that the bus driver was at fault. The laws governing these buses are inadequate and each day several families are paying the price. Police slap minor charges on these drivers and allow the drivers to get bail. We would want stricter charges to be slapped every time such incidents take place,” claimed S Ali Ishana, the victim’s husband.
 
 Police, however, claimed that they went by the rulebook and had done exactly what’s expected of them in case of an accident.
 
 
