HYDERABAD:The much-anticipated LB Nagar-Ameerpet   rail line will be inaugurated in next two months,   minister   said. He also said metro rail linking Nagole to LB Nagar, LB Nagar to Falaknuma and Shamshabad airport will be taken up in phases.

 
 
  
 
 
 Speaking at a meeting after inaugurating the 540-metrelong Chintalkunta underpass near LB Nagar on Tuesday, the minister said the works between LB Nagar and Ameerpet were going on as per schedule. He said there was a greater need for efficient public transport system for the city apart from skyways and flyovers and metro rail would help in easing traffic bottlenecks.
 
 The government has taken up several measures to decongest city’s main roads. “All 52 major junctions will be made signal-free. Work on 18 junctions has already begun and works on nine junctions will be taken up soon, all of which will cost ?7,000 crore. The rest of junction improvement works costing ?16,000 crore will also be taken up in phases,” the minister said.
 
 He announced an expressway along Musi river is being taken up as a priority and the government is waiting for environmental clearance from the Centre. “We are expecting to get environmental clearance by August this year; works will kick off after that,” he said.
 
 On the Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP) works, KTR said works costing ?3,000 crore have been taken up by GHMC and some of them like Ayyappa junction underpass, Mindspace junction and LB Nagar underpass are already completed. “We have fixed timeframes and are completing works as per schedule. Almost all works taken up under SRDP phase I will be completed before March next year,” he said.
 
 He went on to say that it won’t be easy to bring about a change overnight and make Hyderabad a global city. “Our sewerage system is 420 years old, If there is any leak, it damages the roads. The government is trying to set right problems one by one,” he stressed. Both GHMC and HMDA have taken up development of 40 lakes by spending ?540 crore, he added. Mayor Bonthu Rammohan, LB Nagar MLA R Krishnaiah and incharge commissioner, GHMC, Bharati Hollikeri were present.
 
