Guntur: In a major move to free the   city region from frequent power outages, the Southern Power Distribution Company Limited (SPDCL) has decided to upgrade the entire transmission infrastructure. In the first phase, the system will be modernised between the feeders connecting the 33 kV sub-stations.

 Although the state has emerged power surplus on generation front, the same has not reflected on the supply front because of poor infrastructure. Sources said that transmission lines, particularly between the sub-stations, were getting frequently tripped due to the naked wire supply system. Taking the frequent interruptions in supply, particularly in Guntur and Vijayawada, where the capital city construction work has picked up, the power distribution company decided to go for modernisation of the transmission lines on a war footing.
 
 Sources said the SPDCL will lay   cables to connect all the 33 kV feeders for a cost of nearly Rs 20 crore. The work will be taken up under the Integrated Power Development Scheme (IPDS).
 
 The insulated cables will protect the supplies from disruptions, even during natural calamities such as cyclones and heavy rains. While the supply will increase rapidly in the region as the capital city comes up, the existing transmission lines will also undergo severe stress, leaving them open to tripping when demand peaks.
 
 However, insulated cables will protect the transmission lines from such troubles, keeping the supply uninterrupted. In case there is huge gap between the demand and supply, the system will trip at the sub-station level, instead of disrupting transmission lines. Since it is easy to put the system on track at the sub-station level, supplies will be restored quickly.
 
 “While normal cable costs just Rs 2.5 lakh per km, insulated cables cost Rs 20 lakh per km,” said a senior SPDCL official. He explained that old cables will be replaced with the insulated cable in busy commercial junctions of Vijayawada and Guntur cities in the first phase of the project.
 
 Similarly, insulated cables will be laid from the closest 33/11 kV sub-station to the city supply lines in both the cities. While two of the four transmission lines from Tadikonda sub-station to Guntur will be insulated, the system will be strengthened from Gunadala sub-station to the commercial lines such as MG road and Eluru road. 
 
 Interestingly, the SPDCL has already strengthened the 11kv sub-station supply lines with insulated cables, and is going for modernisation by replacing the supply lines from 33 kV sub-stations. 
 
 
