NEW DELHI:   presented its   for 2018-19 on Tuesday. Despite the civic body’s  , the final budget lacked   for   and focused more on new  .

 Leader of house Santosh Pal, while presenting the budget, scrapped all proposals by the commissioner to hike taxes. The commissioner had proposed three new taxes—betterment tax, professional tax and education cess—to raise annual revenue collection by up to Rs 30 crore. 
 
 The projected deficit as loans and liabilities is Rs 3,400 crore. Yet Pal proposed to hike the mayor’s discretion fund from the existing Rs 25 lakh to Rs 50 lakh. The councillor development fund has also been hiked to Rs 1 crore. However, no councillor received even what was previously entitled to them in the past three years. 
 
 East corporation has failed to pay regular salaries to its staff since its annual income is around Rs 900 crore and its salary bill is of Rs 2,000 crore. 
 
 Pal said the corporation would get Rs 1,100 crore from the Centre under the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, which would be used to procure 5,000 dustbins, 20,000 plastic bins, 50 battery-operated litter pickers, 64 auto-mounted litter pickers, 20 fixed compacters, 7 mechanical sweepers and 10 accelerated compost machines.
 
 “We have proposed to install three bio-methanation plants that would be 80% funded by the Centre and the rest by EDMC. We have allocated Rs 1 lakh per ward for unauthorised colonies to carry out development work,” said Pal. 
 
 He added, “Five flyovers have been identified for beautification purpose. We have completed the work on Seelampur flyover at a cost of Rs 20 lakh, and the rest of it will be completed soon.”
 
 The corporation would also start a campaign against illegal posters. For this, a committee of officials would be formed to identify areas more prone to such violations. There’s also a proposal to develop multilevel parking lots at Krishna Nagar, Preet Vihar, Geeta Colony, Babarpur, Nand Nagri and Laxmi Nagar. These would be done on a public-private partnership mode. 
 
 
