TRICHY: Amid this celebration of love came tales of the ordeal couples underwent for marrying outside their caste. The inter-caste marriage festival conducted on Sunday was a bold move towards eradicating caste-based discrimination. Inter-caste couples who got married earlier shared the tribulations they went through after their families and society turned hostile, following which four young couples who faced stern opposition from their families tied the knot on the stage.

 The   Inter Caste Families Welfare Association, which organised the festival, said that though the event was being held for the past seven years, this was the first time four couples tied the knot on the stage. It was held at the   locality in Navalpattu, around 8 km away from the city limits.
 
 The organisers said violence and even murders for marrying outside the caste had been going up in the state. Such festivals would go a long way in eradicating this scourge, they said. 
 
 Individuals from various organisations spoke on Tamil Nadu's social justice history and about the perils of children being exposed to the activities that promote and justify caste based violence and hate crimes. Half-a-dozen inter-caste couples, along with their children and relatives, shared the resistance they face from society.
 
 “None of my eight brothers communicates with my family, including my children, just because I married a man outside my caste. To remove such stigma among the younger generation, we named our son Samooganeedhi (social justice) and samaneedhi (equal justice),” T  , a social worker from Chennai, said. 
 
 A cycle shop owner from Lalgudi, C Veeramani, who married a widow said, “Initially, relatives and friends looked down on me for marrying a widow, that too outside my caste. I never gave space to the comments of outsiders, and two years after our marriage people have started respecting my decision, particularly the youth. Eliminating caste discrimination from society is possible through inter-caste marriages.” 
 
 At least 20 families shared their experience and explained the legal avenues available for inter-caste couplea to deal with threats from family and society.
 
 J Gunasekar, coordinator of the event, said the four couples who tied the knot were from Trichy, Perambalur, Chennai and Theni. “The couples had ID proof showing that they have attained the legal age to marry. Soon their marriage will be registered. Employment opportunities will be provided to them,” Gunasekar added. The association for inter-caste families said they have identified advocates in every district to provide legal protection for inter-caste couples.
 
 
