Ludhiana: In an embarrassment to the Punjab government, promise made by chief minister Amarinder Singh to reduce power tariff for industry to Rs 5 per unit have not been fulfilled once again. On December 19 in a meeting with industry associations at Chandigarh, power minister Rana Gurjeet Singh had declared that Rs 5 per unit of power will be applicable for the industry from January 1 but so far Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has not received any communication or notification from the government for reduction of the rates of power for industry. Giving confirmation in this regard, Arun Gupta, chief engineer (commercial) PSPCL said, ”As of now we have not received any notification in this regard and once a formal notification is received by us to charge the Rs 5 per unit rate of power, we will initiate the process for refund or adjustment of the excess amount of bills paid by them from November 1.”

 The decision to reduce electricity tariff for the industry which was part of election manifesto of the Congress was approved on October 16 by the state cabinet in a meeting held under the chief minister and was scheduled to come into effect from November 1, but even then the government failed to reduce the rates. It was only after TOI highlighted the issue, several industry associations of Punjab formed a common front and cornered the government on the issue and they threatened to go on an indefinite hunger strike from December 22. 
 
 Meanwhile on December 13, the CM had himself issued a statement and said that his government is committed to provide power to industry at the subsidised rate of Rs 5 and notification had been slightly delayed only to give the Department of Industries the time to resolve some critical issues faced by the industry on account of the newly imposed fixed power tariff.
 
 Lashing out against the government, Inderjit Singh Navyug, president of United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) said, ”We are shocked at the failure of the government to issue instructions to PSPCL for reduction of power charges. This is the third time that the promise has turned out to be false. It seems the power minister made a false claim in the meeting only to ensure that we do not go ahead with our agitation. Navyug also said, What is even more unfortunate that in the meeting we were promised that we will be waived off 50 % retrospective charges levied on us by Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission from April to October, 2017 and we will be allowed to pay the remaining in twelve interest free instalments as well.” 
 
 But, he added that PSPCL has issued bills without any waiver and they have been asked to pay these charges in 6 installments. “This entire development has shaken us and it is nothing less than breach of trust , we are going to approach all the associations who were part of the meeting and plan next course of action against this injustice being done to us,” he said. 
 
 
