NEW DELHI: It appears from the responses of civic bodies that the giant Hanuman statue near   was built on God's own land. The mystery behind the land's ownership deepened on Tuesday after   passed the buck to   ( ) in court. 

 NDMC, in turn, has disputed the claim, saying the central Delhi land where the temple was "illegally" built isn't under its jurisdiction.
 
 The Delhi high court had summoned North Corporation and directed it to provide a list of officials posted in the zone during the construction of the 108-foot-tall statue in central Delhi. The corporation, in its reply, said the land belonged to NDMC.
 
  Rubbishing the claim, an NDMC official said, "Jhandewalan doesn't come under our jurisdiction. The point made by North Corporation is completely wrong as the limit of NDMC ends at Gole Market." 
 
  North Corporation stuck to its stand. "The ridge area, including Jhandewalan, comes under NDMC. Their jurisdiction ends at the intersection where the temple stands," a senior official said. 
 
 North Corporation mayor Preety Agarwal has backed her officials. 
 
 “The portion of land where the temple is constructed along with the Ridge falls under NDMC,” she insisted. The temple authorities were not available for the comment. The temple has been under the scanner for a few years now, with high court even asking the local authorities to consider “airlifting” the huge Hanuman statue to remove encroachments around it in November last year, as the temple had been constructed “illegally”. 
 
 “Consider if the statue can be airlifted. Speak to the LG. You know, in the US, entire skyscrapers are shifted as a whole,” the court had said. 
 
 It also said if the civic bodies could “at even one place show that the law was being enforced, “the mindset of the people of Delhi would change.” 
 
 An NGO had filed a PIL in the high court seeking removal of unauthorised constructions and encroachments in the Karol Bagh area. The temple has been built on public land and it has encroached the pavement, leaving no way for pedestrians on the busy road. 
 
 The foundation stone of the temple was laid in May 1994 and it was inaugurated in 2007. The statue was built in phases on donations collected by devotees.
 
 
