PATNA: JD(U) national spokesman Pawan K Varma insisted on Sunday that chief minister   is and would be the alliance face in the state as the respective allies have started working on as to who from their units would participate in the first sitting of Bihar   on June 7 since the government formation with   in the state in July last year. Varma said Nitish would also play a prominent role in seat-sharing for the parliamentary election in 2019.

 
 In all probability, the participants would discuss as to who would be the   NDA’s leader and JD(U)’s role in seat-sharing. 
 
 On Sunday, LJP chief Ram Vilas Paswan and his son Chirag Paswan met BJP national president Amit Shah in Delhi. Nitish is also slated to hold critical discussions with the party’s brass, sources said. 
 
 Although Nitish leads the second NDA government in the state, the three other partners — BJP, Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) led by Paswan and Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) led by Union minister Upendra Kushwaha — had not had their sitting even for once. There is neither any NDA coordination committee nor its state convener.
 
 State BJP sources on Sunday clarified that the proposed meet is “actually an informal get-together, and not the formal meeting.” Accordingly, no agenda has been set for it in advance. “The BJP’s bid is to project united face of Bihar NDA,” a party source said. 
 
 It became urgent for reasons. First, Nitish and other JD(U) leaders started raising issues like their party’s demand for special category status to the state, among other issues. Secondly, the BJP performance in the byelections across the country emboldened the RLSP to demand proper coordination among the NDA partners, nationally.
 
 “In Bihar, Nitish seemed to be setting the agenda. BJP also had to go for its own posturing, which is why state BJP chief Nityanand Rai proposed the June 7 meet to sort out differences among NDA partners, if any,” the BJP source said.
 
 “Yes, state BJP chief informed me over telephone about the meet. We are participating in it. Our party president Upendra Kushwaha is to decide who from RLSP will participate in the get-together,” RLSP state president Bhudeo Choudhary said on Sunday. 
 
 It is still not clear if Kushwaha — or for that matter any of the national presidents of the respective NDA partners, including CM Nitish who heads the JD(U) -- would participate in the June 7 get-together. LJP spokesman Ashraf Ansari said nothing had yet been decided as to who would go in the meeting.
 
 
