PUNE: Kalyaninagar resident   had to starve for a considerable period on Wednesday before he could find some food at a restaurant that had closed its shutters only halfway.

 
 On the other side of the city, Sachin Suryavanshi, a postgraduate student at   (SPPU), was shocked to see the mess closed on a day when there weren’t many eating out options available.
 
 
 Several restaurants and wine shops downed shutters on Wednesday, while others reported a 50% dip in footfall following the bandh.
 
 
 Close to 50% restaurants and wine shops closed on the day of the bandh as a precaution. Food mess services were also not operational as students struggled to order food.
 
 
 President of Pune Restaurants and Hoteliers Association (PRAHA)   said that after stray incidents of protests in areas like Hadapsar, Koregaon Park, Swargate, among others, on Tuesday, restaurants in these areas decided to remain shut on Wednesday.
 
 
 “The restaurants that were open on Wednesday recorded a 50% dip in footfall as the city streets were near deserted and customers feared stepping out for a meal,” said Shetty.
 
 
 PRAHA vice president   added that all restaurants around Station Road, Baner, Kothrud and Deccan remained closed on Wednesday as a precaution. “The customer footfalls began dipping from Tuesday night itself. Eventually, it came down to half of what we normally see,” he said.
 
 
 Eateries did open for business once the bandh was called off on Wednesday evening.
 
 
 A source from the   said that wine shops adjoining slum areas were kept close specifically as a precaution against vandalism and protests. “Of the 160 wine shops in the city, nearly 40% to 50% were closed till the bandh was called off by the evening,” he said.
 
 
 While other mess services in Pune remained closed until evening, two of the three messes at SPPU catering to over 1,500 students were also closed. A notice to this effect was put up by the mess contractors in the afternoon, leaving students to fend for themselves. The lone mess, Refractory, that was open was eventually forced shut for about an hour by student unions. It later opened to cater to hungry students albeit in police presence.
 
