The Pune Municipal Corporation has been claiming   Road at Kondhwa is free of hawkers. The civic body says the shifting of 51 hawkers to the new Wanowrie vegetable market at Nala Park, on March 15, was key in easing congestion in the area.

 But the PMC’s claims — and the hawkers’ shift — remain on paper. In fact, a simple trick by vendors in the area has left the civic body struggling to enforce anti-encroachment rules.
 
 The hawkers of Salunke Vihar Road have now started operating along the stretch in two shifts, between 7am and 10am and between 7pm and 10pm — before and after the working hours of the PMC’s Wanowrie-Ramtekdi ward office. This trick has been effective. Everyone from grocers to those selling fast food have been able to dodge the anti-encroachment squad.
 
 Rattled by the developments, the PMC has been warning hawkers saying their licences could be cancelled. However, the warnings don’t seem to be having any impact on the ground.
 
 “The entire exercise of relocating the 51 hawkers from the road to the park has flopped,” says Maithili Manakawad, a member of the Town Vending Committee. She blames shoddy planning.
 
 “Hawkers returned to their usual spots because they couldn’t get customers. This was because not enough signs were put up to direct customers to the new spot,” Manakawad adds.
 
 Citizens living along Salunke Vihar Road say commute has been hit because of the congestion. “The stretch is a nightmare during the evening with pushcarts taking up half the road,” says businessman Shivkumar N. “Accidents are common with buses from the PMPML and corporates vying for space. Despite attempts by the corporation to relocate hawkers, they continue to occupy both sides of the road,” he says.
 
 The PMC’s corporator Prashant Jagtap says the road was “100% free” from congestion after the relocation of 40 category-A hawkers. “The relocation of hawkers in categories B,C, D and E is in progress. Traffic congestion is back in the area because many vendors have returned to the streets. Illegal encroachments from ABC Farm Chowk will be removed because hawking between the Chowk and   has been banned. We also plan to widen the narrow road between ABC Farm Chowk and Wanowrie Circle by 10 feet,” says Jagtap.
 
 The police too believe it’s time the PMC woke up. Inspector Chandrakant Nimbalkar, of Kondhwa traffic division says the civic body must push back hawker encroachment. “We wanted motorists to make good use of open spaces on both sides of the road, but hawkers are impeding traffic movement. The PMC should force the hawkers to operate from the new market and decongest the NIBM Chowk by relocating hawkers operating on private land. Hawkers operating at Meethanagar on Kondhwa Road should also be relocated as the area has become prone to accidents.”
 
 Inspector J M Pathan, incharge of Wanowrie traffic division, adds that a proposal to convert a part of the narrow Shivarkar Road into a one-way is in the pipeline. There are also plans to close gaps along medians between ABC Farm Chowk and Wanowrie Circle. “This will ease congestion,” Pathan says.
 
 PMC has not escaped blame from activists either. “The civic body has not taken any intiative in the relocation of hawkers to Nala Park. It’s no wonder this area is always congested,” says social activist Sahil Kedari.
 
 Meanwhile, Aiman Mehta, director of the Raah Literary and Cultural Centre says Nala Park, where the PMC had planned to move hawkers to, has become useless.
 
 “The place where the new market was built had been lying idle for years. Residents had urged the PMC to convert it into a garden or a jogging track but nothing happened. Instead, a crematorium was constructed despite stiff opposition from locals. The PMC also had plans to start a fire station there, but the proposal was opposed by people. The civic body then converted part of the space into a market for relocated hawkers who left the place after just two days because of the stink from a nearby drain,” says Mehta.
 
 Hawkers maintain it’s the smell that turned off customers from the new market. “The stench from the nullah and the mosquito menace forced us to leave this place and go back to the road,” says hawker Mustafa Shaikh.
 
 Another hawker,  , says the nullah must be covered by the PMC. “I don’t have customers. There is no place to store goods here either. We want the PMC to cover the nullah and generate more awareness about the new market.”
 
 But the Wanowrie-Ramtekdi ward office’s assistant  , Sanjay Gawade, says vendors refusing to use the new market risk fines and penalties.
 
 “We provided a space of 3x 5 feet for each hawker. If they are found operating on the road, we will impound goods and issue notices. Repeat offenders will lose  ,” he warns.
 
