BHUBANESWAR: The state government is taking steps to upgrade the century-old  , one of the premier law teaching institute in Cuttack to a Law University.

 It was informed by BJD president and chief minister Naveen Patnaik while addressing the executive meeting of the BJD legal front here on Sunday.
 
 The college that started in 1869 with a diploma course has now been offering courses for both under-graduate and post-graduate degrees in law along with five years integrated BA, LLB course. The institution, over the years, has produced many legal luminaries.
 
 The chief minister also announced to establish an Advocates Academy in Cuttack for training and skill development of lawyers of the state. Besides, the Advocates’ Welfare Fund will be enhanced from the present Rs 3 crore to Rs 5 crore from the next financial year.
 
 Urging the members of party’s legal front, an outfit of practicing lawyers affiliated to BJD, to join the Mahanadi fight, Naveen asked the lawyers’ community to work with wholeheartedly in the battle for Mahanadi. “I expect the lawyers to come forward to save the pride of Odisha in being an integrated part of Save Mahanadi movement,” said Naveen.
 
 Naveen also appealed the lawyers to carry forward the legal aid to the grass root level to provide access to justice to the needy and deserved. “You should also carry forward the message of growth and development of our government to the people of Odisha as they look upon you to make them aware of their rights and entitlements,” he said.
 
 While highlighting achievements of his government, the chief minister said it has taken several steps to ease access to justice to the people including establishment of courts in all 314 blocks, special courts for women and ST, SC communities and appointment of judicial officers.
 
 “Madhubabu Aain Sahayata (legal aid cell) at the panchayat level is one of the most progressive and dynamic initiatives of my government to provide instant and easy access to justice to the weaker sections of society at their door steps,” he said.
 
 Law minister Pratap Jena, who also attended the executive meeting, said the state government is committed to find out amicable solutions to the issues faced by the legal community in Odisha.
 
