MUMBAI: Former additional chief secretary (home) KP Bakshi who probed denotification of industrial land between 2002 and 2017 and gave a clean chit to all ministers of the period, on Saturday said bureaucrats were at fault for not keeping the chief minister informed about disputes, if any, with their ministers.

 “My responsibility was limited, I was not appointed to unearth a scam. I feel that bureaucrats were at fault. When there was a difference of opinion between the cabinet member and the bureaucrat, it was the responsibility of the bureaucrat to bring the dispute to the notice of the CM and take instructions from him. But in not a single case, despite differences, no bureaucrat sought instructions from the CM. Under such circumstances, how the cabinet member is responsible,’’ Bakshi told TOI explaining his clean chit to not only to the incumbent industries minister  , but also his predecessors.
 
 The one-man committee was set up following allegations that Desai, as   chairman, de-notified 31,000 acres of prime land between January 1, 2015 and March 31, 2017 in blatant violation of rules.
 
  
 In his report submitted to the CM a week ago, Bakshi stated that between August 2002 and August 2017, an estimated 32,000 hectares in 160 cases was de-notified. Senior Congress leaders Narayan Rane,  , Rajendra Darda and Ashok Chavan and Desai were the industries ministers during the period. “I found that in quite a large number of cases, norms were violated; however, there was no conflict of interest,’’ Bakshi told TOI.
 
 Bakshi has recommended to the government to reduce the lock-in period from 35 years to 15 years to ensure de-notification is a smooth affair During Rane’s tenure, the lock-in period was increased to 35 years. It was found that in view of a prolonged lock in period, it was difficult to acquire land. “I have suggested that if the land is not acquired within 15 years, then it should be de-notified by deeming provision,’’ Bakshi said.
 
 Baskhi found that during the tenure to Darda, Patangrao Kadam and Ashok Chavan, huge tracks of lands were de-notified, but all orders were passed on the recommendations of the bureaucrats of MIDC and industries department, while during the tenure of Rane and Desai, major of the de-notification orders were passed on their recommendations, while MIDC bureaucrats had raised a red signal.
 
 Desai told TOI that in his submissions before the committee he had urged the government to bring in a comprehensive policy for de-de-notification of land. “In my opinion, discretionary powers of ministers and bureaucrats to de-notify land acquired for industrial development should be withdrawn. During the course of hearing of certain cases in Kolhapur district, I found that the department had taken diagonally opposite view despite the fact that the cases were identical,’’ Desai told TOI.
 
