NAGPUR: The   collected from complainants at police stations through the Social Law Enforcement and Victim Assistance Cell (SEVA) app claims 99.82% citizens were satisfied with the services rendered by cops. The feedback was collected by   ( ) using the app launched by police commissioner   to ensure citizens get intended benefits on visiting police stations.

 To give complainants and visitors prompt service at the police station, three policemen were deployed at the reception centre. The police were provided the SEVA app on their smart phones. After registering the identification details, contact numbers and reason for visit manually, the cops would also record it in the app. Repeat visitors also entered the pattern of offence and developments so far. The servers of the app used by 29 police stations were at the SSB, where a cop monitored each of the five zones. The system is also called ‘Digital Police Complaint Register’.
 
 “The SSB cops later contacted every complainant or visitor to get the feedback, whether positive or not. If it was negative, they noted down the reasons behind it,” informed the  . If for any reason the call couldn’t connect or remained unanswered, the SSB cops would visit the citizens personally, added the DCP.
 
 The five zones together attended 67,595 citizens between February and December 2017. Out of these, 48,753 (72.12%) persons were contacted and it 48,670 citizens have given positive remarks for SEVA. Feedback from remaining 18,842 visitors is yet to be taken.
 
 DCP (EOW)   claimed the reason behind failing to get feedback from these citizens may vary. Many times people don’t possess cell phones or didn’t answer calls or it remained switched off. Even when cops visit their places, they couldn’t meet the person sometimes. 
 
 The CP told TOI, “We need to listen to the concerns of people and modulate our responses accordingly. Secondly, SEVA, as the name indicates, also provides guidance on help for the victim in terms of legal, financial, progress of case or counselling etc. This is unique a victim assistance tool.”
 
 The objectives of SEVA app were to enlighten complainants about government assistance for victims as per the case, inform them about importance of legal documents, confirm whether victims were being helped properly, improve relations between police and public, provide expert suggestions, and evaluate police performance.
 
 
