GURUGRAM: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Monday charged a 16-year-old boy for the murder of a seven-year-old in a Gurugram school’s washroom last September. In a   that ran into over 2,500 pages,   said it had sufficient evidence to prosecute the juvenile whose fingerprints were found at the crime scene.

 CBI gave a clean chit to  , the  , who had originally been arrested by Gurugram police for the murder. CBI submitted a trunk and two bags full of documents along with the chargesheet.
 
 
  
  
 
 The court had instructed that the juvenile be referred to as Bholu and the seven-year-old as Prince, and CBI stuck to that script in its chargesheet. “During investigation by CBI, sufficient evidence in the form of oral, documentary and forensic report has come on record which substantiate that Bholu has committed the murder of Prince on September 8,” CBI said. 
 
 The probe agency sought the discharge of Ashok. “No evidence has come on record to substantiate the involvement of conductor Ashok Kumar in committing the murder of Prince. No traces of sexual assault were found. No blood stain was found on his clothes. Ashok’s presence inside the washroom has been explained and found to be justified and true based on independent versions of several witnesses and minute analysis of CCTV footage,” said the chargesheet. 
 
 CBI dedicated nearly two dozen pages countering the investigation of Gurugram police and giving a clean chit to Ashok Kumar, who was arrested by police on September 8 and later given bail by Gurugram court in November.
 
 The police had registered an FIR against the bus conductor under section 302 (murder) of the IPC, 25 of the Arms Act and 12 of the POCSO Act and 75 of the JJ Act. Two officials of the school — Francis Thomas and Jayesh Thomas — were also arrested for negligence in maintaining safety and security of the children. They are now out on bail. 
 
 In the chargesheet filed by CBI investigation office Ajay Kumar before the court of additional sessions judge Jasbir Singh Kundu, only the juvenile has been named, and there’s only one charge — murder (section 302). The charge sheet has listed around 50 witnesses, of which 23 are from the school.
 
 “CBI has filed part chargesheet and claimed that further investigation is in progress. The result of further investigation in the form of additional chargesheet will be submitted before the court in due course of time,” said Sushil Tekriwal, counsel for the murdered boy’s father. 
 
 He said the next date of hearing is on February 12 when both parties will argue over framing charges.
 
 The chargesheet highlighted the contradiction in the juvenile’s statements. He was found to be very evasive during questioning. His friend refused to corroborate his statement. “Bholu is seen entering the school campus at 7:34:05 hrs as per the CCTV which means his friend had already entered the school and reached his class on second floor. This was first and foremost clear cut contradiction of Bholu about explanation for his presence in the ground floor during the incident,” the charge sheet says. 
 
 His other contradiction was spotted when the PT teacher said the juvenile had informed him that one child was lying near the washroom of ground floor and was vomiting blood. But some moments earlier he had informed the gardener that the child was inside the toilet of the washroom. “He (juvenile) changed his version within a few seconds after informing about the incident to gardener,” said the charge sheet. 
 
 CBI said the juvenile’s movement on the ground floor at the time of the incident was suspicious as it was unusual for a senior student, with his classroom on the second floor, to roam around on the ground floor, especially on the day of an examination. Further, senior students do not generally use the toilet on ground floor since there are separate toilets for students on each floor.
 
 His other claim that he had gone towards the room of the music teacher was found to be false. Some other students of the school testified against the juvenile. They said he was planning to cancel the parent-teacher meeting. It was also revealed that he was planning to mix poison in the water tank in order to kill some child. He had offered money to his classmate to bring poison. He had told his friends not to prepare for the exam as it was going to be a waste of time.
 
 “Bholu has also admitted before CBI to have searched on the internet about removing finger prints from the crime scene. He had also searched in August about various poison, their effects and their sources,” CBI said.
 
 A school teacher, who lives close to where the juvenile stayed, said his family had approached them with a request to spread the word in school that he was a decent boy and had never been involved in any sort of mischievous activities.
 
