She is one of the new kids on the block and has already managed to bag a Black Lady for direction. But Ashwiny Iyer Tiwari takes her stardom lightly. “I am becoming as fussy as my heroines,” she laughs as she gets ready for an event she was attending in the city. After wearing a pair of dangling silver earrings and a broad smile, the director sits for the interview. With much laughter and jokes, Ashwiny — one of the most commercially successful Bollywood directors in 2017 — speaks about her upcoming projects, her love for Kolkata and how she copes with life as a busy mother. Read on…

 
 
 I visit Kolkata every now and then as I have clients here. I do a lot of ad film for firms based in this city. But I always want to come and stay here for a while, go to Santiniketan. But it’s not working out. So, I feel very bad about it. I think I am a Bangali, who doesn’t have fish and rice and was born in south India by mistake (laughs). See, even my tattoo is written in Bengali — Aaradhya, Amaarisa and Nitesh (son, daughter and husband respectively). I love the pulse of the city.
 
 
 
 Of course. I was a part of the jury for a regional film award and I watched all the movies that were nominated. I liked   and  . I loved the way the latter was made. The art direction is super and also the actress, the newcomer…  . I loved her too (laughs).
 
 
 
 (Rolls her eyes) She is definitely on my wish list and I might just want to hold a conversation with her in this regard. But right now, she is busy with her previous commitments and I also have a few things in hand.
 
 
 
 This is loosely a reflection of my own life (laughs). It is another slice-of-life story about a young girl, and Alia is on my wish list. The truth is that she is a beautiful actress. But nothing has been finalised yet. I am still working on the script and for me, script is very important. My actors should fit the characters.
 
 
 
 I think we all have grown up with a very strong woman in our families. It doesn’t matter which strata of society you come from, the woman in the house is always strong. This strength has been there despite the patriarchy in our society. So, as a country, we have it in us. It is important to show it in the most simplistic way. I do not believe in this whole aspect of screaming and shouting about feminism. Feminism can also come from our own comfortable spaces — from our home. For me, my mother, who is a school teacher, is a very strong woman. She is educated, she has managed to be herself and she managed to bring me up. My grandmother is a very strong woman because she, without her husband, managed to raise three children. They didn’t have to scream and shout to portray their feminism! But today, we all respect such characters for what they have done.
 
 And your films talk about the life in and love of small towns. That is not a common topic in Bollywood. Is it?
 Who are these people who come to watch movies? What is the demography of urban Indians? These are the sons and the daughters of towns. Their parents brought them up and sent them to cities for higher studies or jobs. These are the people who are going to theatres to watch the films we make. Where is their heart? Isn’t it still tucked in their hometown? We have all grown up eating dal-chawal and gazing at the stars from our terraces. My films are for these people. But in Bollywood, we are so used to seeing palatial bungalows and foreign locations…We also need to know where cinema is moving. For me, cinema should reflect the time we are living in. During the time Hindi films started showing foreign locales, it was an aspiration for us. Now, 15-20 years have gone by, and these are no more some distant dreams. We all have travelled by flights, taken foreign trips and seen our children settle abroad. Now we seek the way to go back to our roots. We 
 have travelled, seen success and now we want to go back home. It is the circle of life. Having said that, I also think every filmmaker has the right to showcase cinema in their own style. I feel that I want to show a slice-of-life story in the funniest and happiest way possible. I don’t want to show sad stories at a time we are engulfed with grief and depression anyway. I would rather have people coming and enjoying my films for two hours and go back in a happy mood. Although I’m making a point in my films, it is being made subtly.
 
 
 
 I am, in fact, working with a few big production houses. The style of filmmaking has to change according to what is happening around you. I am making a film on kabaddi with an acclaimed production house. In fact, if you notice, there was an increase in scale in Bareilly Ki Barfi from Nil Battey Sannata in terms of star cast and budget. This is a gradual progression. It is not that I want to work only with big production houses with big budgets. I need whatever is best for 
 the story.
 
 
 
 (Laughs) It is obvious that when two creative people talk, they talk a lot about creativity and art. But we both are very non-egoistic people in our household and we are very different directors. We are very different in how we look at films. It is like two surgeons living in the same house and discussing surgeries but the surgeries of two different parts of human body (laughs). Though we sometimes like similar films, there are certain films I just don’t watch. I cannot watch horror films. Also, I cannot watch too many sci-fi films (laughs). But I watch it sometimes to see the magnitude of those films.
 
 
 
 I think the sense of guilt is in-born for Indian women. Sometimes it is important to cut off and concentrate on work and once the work 
 gets over we can switch to a different role. This doesn’t make you a bad mother and we really need to understand that. How did my mother manage? My mother once told me something I still remember. “You need to get educated. You need to work. You need to fall in love, get married, have children and still continue to work. And everything will follow,” she said. That has set in my system. Though I fight a lot with my mother, she has a very strong influence on me. She will be very happy to read that on paper (laughs).
 
 
 
