KOLKATA: The   or  , still considered one of the major entry points to Kolkata, turned 75 on Saturday. Glowing tributes were paid to it by the bridge’s custodian Kolkata Port Trust (KoPT) and   in the evening. Tata Steel produced and supplied nearly 23,500 tonnes out of the 26,500 tonnes of high tension alloy steel required for the bridge’s construction.

 Commissioned in 1943, the bridge was originally named the New Howrah bridge, because it replaced a pontoon bridge at the same location connecting Kolkata to Howrah.
 
 “This is just not an engineering marvel. For people from outside the city Rabindra Setu is synonymous with Kolkata. In 1870, a pontoon bridge connected Kolkata to Howrah. Some of the pontoons had to be removed every time a ship required to move up or down the river. Finally, in 1874, the pontoon bridge was placed under the custody of the port commissioners that is now KoPT,” said KoPT chairman Vinit Kumar.
 
 “Very soon, we are planning a photo exhibition about the history of the bridge. Next year, we will decorate the bridge with LED lights on the lines of structures elsewhere in the world like Sydney,” he added.
 
  
 
 During a short cruise organised by KoPT and Tata Steel on the   to commemorate the occasion, heritage enthusiast Anthony Khatchaturian regaled the audience with the history of structures along Kolkata’s riverbank. Among the interesting things he mentioned was the Howrah Bridge cannon that was unearthed among other artefacts when drilling was undertaken at the Howrah-end for construction of the Rabindra Setu.
 
 “Till a few years ago an old cannon was lying inside the North Port police station. Though none could be sure, officials believed it was the one unearthed during the construction. Finally, the Kolkata Municipal Corporation took charge of it. It is now mounted outside Town Hall and everybody believes that it is the Howrah bridge cannon,” Khatchaturian said.
 
 “Do you know that there are catacombs under the Portuguese Church on Brabourne Road where monks were laid to rest. It’s also a fact that Brabourne Road is the only one in the world that has places of worship for all religions. You would also be amazed to know that UNESCO is ready to declare Dalhousie Square a world heritage zone provided Telephone Bhavan is shifted. I would urge the   to look into it,” he added.
 
 Among others who attended the event were Kolkata and Howrah mayors Sovan Chatterjee and Rathin Chakravarty. “War can never be good but World War II gave Tata Steel the opportunity to prove itself, not only to others but also itself that it had technological prowess to develop an alloy steel called Tiscrom way back in the 1940s,” said  , group director, Tata Steel.
 
