JAIPUR: The state assembly's budget session had a stormy beginning with the Congress-led opposition hitting out against the BJP government over issues like farmers' suicides and demand for loan waivers issues, detreating law and order and unemployment. 

  had to table his speech after reading a few paras, as Congress and independent MLA Hanuman Beniwal continued to interrupt him while protesting against the government. In the 50-page speech, the governor praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his leadership, his policies and also highlighted the state government's achievements.
 
 "Be it the country's economic policy or the defence policy, international relations or internal security, the country has got a distinct image because of Prime Minister's courageous leadership," said Singh. He added the country was heading to be world's biggest economy, India's voice was getting heard more seriously and the countrymen's morale has been boosted.
 
 The governor mentioned   government's achievements in sectors like health, education, agriculture, social security, housing and said that the development and welfare works done have pushed inclusive growth in all sectors.
 
 The governor talked about PM's visit to Barmer for inaugurating work commencement of oil refinery, state's  , construction of toilets, effective implementation of PCPNDT Act to improve sex ratio, setting up of the country's first skill development university in government sector, among others.
 
 During Singh's speech, independent MLA Beniwal remained in well protesting against the state government. Deputy leader of the opposition Ramesh Meena and opposition whip Govind Singh Dotasra too raised issues of farmers and youths. The Congress even shouted slogans. Amid the din, parliamentary affairs minister Rajendra Rathore requested the governor to table his speech.
 
 Outside the house, Dotasra and Beniwal termed the governor's speech a "bundle of lies" complied by the state BJP government. Rathore said Congress tarnished parliamentary procedures with its remarks. "Leader of Opposition (Rameshwar Dudi) and their newly elected MLA (Vivek Dhakar) remained absent during the governor's speech simply to meet their leader  . They could have met Rahul later," said Rathore.
 
 BJP MLA   marked his protest against the state government by coming to the house wearing a black suit. Tiwari, while opposing time extension allowed to select committee on the 'gag bill', later pointed out that he wore the black dress specifically to protest.
 
 Speaker Kailash Meghwal read out obituaries of former governors of Uttar Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, Banwari Lal Joshi and Dinesh Nandan, respectively, former MLAs Digamber Singh, Surendra Singh Rathore, Udai Singh Rathore, Ram Sahay Sonad, Shyama Kumari Sengar and the victims of Sawai Madhopur tragedy in which a private bus had fallen into the Banas River killing around 32 people.
 
 
