Mumbai: A selloff in the global markets, led by a crash in the   Index in the US on Monday, prompted   investors to press the panic button here on Tuesday morning. This pulled the sensex down by 1,274 points to 33,483 — a six-week intraday low. 

 The Budget proposal to reintroduce long-term capital gains ( ) tax and fears about fiscal slippage in an election year added to investors’ worries. However, a late buying spree by domestic institutions — even as foreign funds sold — helped the index to recover over 700 points and close at 34,196, down 561 points (or -1.6%), a one-month low.
 
 On Monday, the Dow capitulated 1,175 points (-4.6%), its worst ever single-day points drop, on the back of the US Federal Reserve’s statement that it expects inflation in the world’s largest economy to rise, which was validated by government data on employment and wages. These led to a sudden spike in gilt yields to 2.86% from near 2% in late August. Since a rise in yields could lead to a higher interest rate, which in turn could hurt US businesses, investors sold aggressively. A global selloff followed, which also impacted the Indian market. 
 
 Brokers said that foreign as well as domestic funds, along with wealthy investors, are flush with cash and are now waiting to deploy the same at lower levels. 
 
 According to Centrum Broking senior VP Purvesh Shelatkar, Indian mutual funds and HNIs were sitting more on cash as the NSE recently increased margins to as high as 70%. Shelatkar said that on Tuesday, “after the initial crash in the market, they got an opportunity to enter as fundamentals of Indian economy are intact and a solid results season is further confirming growth. Thereafter, funds started buying which led to a huge recovery in the markets”.
 
 The day’s session saw domestic investors’ net-buying figure at Rs 1,700 crore, while foreign funds were net sellers at Rs 2,326 crore. 
 
 On Tuesday, domestic investors lost nearly Rs 2.75 lakh crore of wealth with the BSE’s market capitalisation now at Rs 150 lakh crore. The day also saw 29 of the 30 sensex stocks closing in the red, with Tata Motors (down 5.5%) and TCS (-3.6%) as the top decliners. As it happens in every selloff, mid- and small-cap stocks were hammered even more than the blue chips on Tuesday. Compared to a 1.6% drop in the sensex, the small-cap index closed 2.2% down while the mid-cap index slipped 1.7%.
 
 The selloff in the stock market, which prompted foreign funds to take money off the table here, also led to a weakness of the Indian currency. The rupee closed the day at 64.25 to a dollar from its previous close at 64.07. In the bond market, however, the benchmark yield on the 10-year paper closed 3 basis points (100 bps = 1 percentage point) lower at 7.57% as investors looked for relative safety during the mayhem in the stock market.
 
 
