JAIPUR: The Jaipur Development Authority ( ) has finally resolved the issue of constructing   in the   dam that was a bone of contention since beginning of the project. 

 Now, the JDA would construct only 60 metre transport corridor on the irrigation land. In nearly 1.5 km area, the civic body will not construct development corridor. 
 
 An official informed, “No lease deed would be given on this land. As per the proposal, width of ring road would be 360 metre, including the development corridor. The JDA proposed to construct development corridor of 135-135 metres on either side of the ring road. However, on the portion that passes through Nevta dam, the JDA has proposed to develop only 60 metre corridor,” he added.
 
 “The JDA would construct 60 boxes of 9 metres width and 3 height beneath ring road, so that flow of water is not obstructed and it reaches to the dam,” added the official.
 
 The matter was resolved in the meeting chaired by the chief secretary where officials from water resources department, JDA and the   ( ) were present. 
 
 This month, the NHAI had put the work on hold in Nevta   area after objection was raised by the water resources department. The work came to a halt following the directions of the empowered committee for conservation of water bodies. 
 
 A senior official at water resource department said, “Earlier, the committee had written to the water resources department and Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) regarding complaints of Ring Road being constructed in Nevta lake area. Our department has forwarded a copy of the letter to JDA to comply with the committee's direction,” he said.
 
 A JDA official informed, earlier the plan of JDA to acquire land of Nevta dam which is coming in the alignment of the 47-km Ring Road fell flat. The irrigation department had refused to give possession of land as it would disturb the capacity area.
 
 According to officials, nearly 1,100 metre of irrigation land in Nevta dam is overlapping the Ring Road. The JDA had planned to take the possession of land in the catchment area like Mej dam where the JDA has constructed the road. The proposal was earlier sent to the irrigation department. However, despite several reminders, the irrigation department remains adamant not to surrender the land.
 
 
