NEW DELHI: You will soon have a   ombudsman to rely on when your mobile operator refuses to pay heed to your complaints on deficient services.

 
 The government on Tuesday paved the way for a new regulator to take care of the growing dissatisfaction among mobile consumers when it comes to services they are getting. The ombudsman will be formed under the aegis of regulator  , which may even get penal powers, while taking action against erring operators. “We are receiving as many as 10 million complaints and grievances every quarter. The telecom commission has now taken a decision to take up this issue,” telecom secretary Aruna   said.
 
 According to the proposal cleared by the inter-ministerial commission, there will now be a three-tier mechanism to tackle consumer complaints on deficient services. While the first level of complaints will be handled by the company itself, a customer, who is still dissatisfied, can approach an appellate authority that will be within the company’s set-up.
 
 If the customer is still not satisfied, he/she can then seek redressal from the ombudsman. Sundararajan said the government is making amendments to the Trai Act to give more teeth to the regulator. Industry analysts said the telecom commission’s decision will help the regulator tackle call drops and deficient services more effectively. “Quality of services are taking centre-stage and the new body will tackle the issues related to consumer complaints more effectively,” a telecom industry official said.
 
 Previous attempts by Trai to put a penalty on telecom operators for dropped calls had been turned down by the  .
 
 The proposal for an ombudsman had been recommended by Trai, which made a strong pitch for establishment of a regulator for handling consumer complaints. “There is a need for an independent and appropriately empowered structure to be created for resolution of grievances of telecom consumers. An office of telecom ombudsman needs to be established,” Trai had said.
 
 The telecom commission also paved the way for higher broadband penetration through Wi-Fi. “The commission felt this will give a huge fillip to broadband in India through setting up of Wi-Fi hotspots,” Sundararajan, who heads the commission, said.
 
