MUMBAI:   is set for a digital makeover with the   ( ) unveiling its new website and an app on Saturday. 

 ZTCC oversees distribution of organs donated by   (deceased) donors at 30 hospitals registered for transplants in Mumbai. 
 
 Distribution of organs is one of the most tedious processes in the cadaveric donation process. The hospital with a potential brain-dead patient has to first contact the ZTCC, which then uses a computer-based network to draw up a list of potential recipients across the city. 
 
 “The coordination takes 48 hours or more, and transplant coordinators in various hospitals and the ZTCC practically work round-theclock to make every donation happen,” said ZTCC general secretary Dr Surendra Mathur. 
 
 The digitization drive, which was inaugurated by state health minister   on the occasion of ZTCC’s 18th foundation day on Saturday, will make the process smoother and faster. Every patient’s registration with the ZTCC will be online, so that their contact details are available quickly during the last-minute distribution process. 
 
 On Saturday, 42 families were felicitated for donating their brain-dead loved one’s organs in 2017-2018. While 67-year-old Sushma Karnik’s husband said that his wife had throughout her career as a teacher donated uniforms and books for poor tribal students. 
 
 “She continued her donation till the end. And I am happy that she is still here among us due to her donated organs,” he said. 
 
 Nita Thygarajan donated her 72-year-old husband’s liver and corneas on August 3, 2017, after he was declared brain dead after suffering a stroke. 
 
 “We had discussed organ donation and when doctors told me that he was brain dead, we wanted to donate all of his organs. As his heart was damaged in the revival process, we could only donate his liver,” she said. 
 
 Vaishnavi Kalam hadn’t heard about organ donation before her 61-year-old mother Ajita Phokar collapsed and fell in the bathroom of their Dockyard Road home. 
 
 “It was strange to hear about it, but we decided to go ahead because it would help people,” she added. ZTCC president Dr Gustad Daver highlighted how organ donation rates had improved over last 18 years in Mumbai. NOTTO chief Dr Vimal Bhandari noted that the ZTCC had emerged as a model agency that had carried out distribution of organs in a honest and trustworthy manner. Health minister Dr Sawant said the ZTCC should ensure the concept of organ donation is popularized. 
 
 “People still don’t know where or how they could donate organs,” he said.
 
