CHENNAI: Online registration and filling of applications for the   ( ) will commence on   while the last date for candidates to register is May 30, higher education minister K P Anbulayam said on Monday.

 Single window counselling for admissions to engineering colleges across the state will go online for the first time this year. 
 
 However, counselling for sports category, differently abled, vocational, SC-SCA and supplementary counselling will be held in person in Chennai. Original certificate verification for sports category will also be held in Chennai.
 
  
 Counselling is expected to be held in the first week of July but may vary depending on the medical counselling, said the minister. 
 
 This year, a total of 567 colleges will participate in the single window counselling process while 19 colleges have opted out due to application for closure. This has reduced the number of engineering seats by 4,695, said TNEA officials.
 
 A total of 42 TNEA Facilitation Centres ( ) have been established across districts to guide rural applicants and those without internet facilities through the online process. 
 
 The TFC for Chennai will be the Ramanujan Computing Centre, Anna University, Guindy. They will be equipped with internet enabled computer systems/printers, trained personnel and a seminar hall along with water and sanitary facilities. 
 
 The counselling process will take place in three phases. The first phase will involve online registration where applicants are required to pay Rs 500 (Rs 250 for SC/SCA/ST). 
 
 For the second phase of certificate verification, all students must go to the TFCs with their applications, original certificates and photocopies.
 
 They will be given around a week for this. During this time, a booklet with information on all colleges, seats and courses will be handed out to the candidates and also made available online, said TNEA secretary U Rhymend. 
 
 A merit list of eligible candidates will be published on the TNEA portal. Candidates may contact the TNEA office for any grievances regarding the list.
 
 The third phase of counselling will be held over five rounds. "Each round will go on for five days in which the candidate will take the first three days to enter their option (college/course) tentatively and may take the next two days to confirm the allotment given to them.
 
  Students may do this online but can also approach the TFCs for the counselling process," he said. The applicants are required to pay a sum of Rs 5,000 (Rs 1,000 for SC/SCA/ST) as initial deposit for college admissions. 
 
 
