VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister   on Thursday wrote an open letter to the people of   asking support for the ‘Satyagraha’ he is undertaking on his birthday.

  In his two-page letter, he said that everyone from the state, even those who have migrated abroad, should participate in the agitation, and express gratitude towards the motherland. 
 
 “I appeal to all of you to support, and come along with me.” He called on the people to continue the work peacefully but firmly till all legitimate demands of AP are met.
 
 Naidu began the letter saying he will take up the “Dharma Porata Deeksha” from 7 am to 7 pm today, with his fasst. “I am doing this as a mark of protest against the negligent attitude of the Union government.” 
 
 Naidu hit out at the Centre saying the Union government did not implement many things mentioned in the   Pradesh Reorganisation Act - 2014, and many promises given by Prime Minister  . 
 
 “The Union government meted out injustice to the state even in the last budget.” He said that during the bifurcation process, the then Prime Minister had announced special category status (SCS), revenue deficit fulfilment, package on the lines of Bundelkhand for backward districts in the state.
 
 “The Centre initially said that the   had recommended that SCS will not be given to any state anymore, and promised a special package will be given. But they have not given the package, and instead are extending all the benefits of SCS to some other states,” he said.
 
 Naidu said the Centre had to give funds for Amaravati, and the demand for a new railway zone must be fulfilled. “ They are refusing to give railway zone, a steel plant in Kadapa, Dugirajapatnam port. The Centre is asking the state to bear the viability gap funding of Rs 5,000 crore. Progess on educational institutes at this rate will not be compelted in the next 20 years.” 
 
 Naidu also expressed anger as the Centre is trying to show the funds given to Vijayawada and Guntur drainage project, as funds given to Amaravati. 
 
 “Even though we have submitted all the utilization certificates, they are denying that,” he said. For Polavaram, which is a lifeline for the state, Rs 3,000 crore is due from the Union government.”
 
 On Thursday, the women wing of Telugu Desam offered special prayers at Sir Durga Malleswara Swamy Varla Devasthanams atop Indrakeeladri, praying for success of Naidu’s ‘Dharma Porta Deeksha’. A group of women activists, led by Mullapudi Renuka, offered special prayers.
 
 Meanwhile, Krishna district administration completed arrangements for Naidu’s Dharma Porata Deeksha in the city. District collector B Lakshmikantham, along with minister Devineni Uma Maheswara Rao, monitored the arrangements at Indira Gandhi Municipal Stadium in the city
 
 City police increased security and prohibited entry of heavy vehicles into the city. The police, in a press release, said traffic from Kolkata towards Hyderabad will be diverted through Hanuman Junction, Nuzvid, Mylavaram and vehicles towards Chennai will be diverted to Hanuman Junction, Gudivada, Avanigadda, Bapatla.
 
 
