Ram Gopal Varma’s upcoming ‘God, Sex and Truth’ with   is being met with protests by the All India Democratic Women Association (AIDWA). 

  They shouted slogans against the filmmaker and burnt his effigy in Visakhapatnam, accusing the director of using cuss words against women in a recent interview. A complaint has also been filed against the film in Vijayawada, with Mahila Morcha leaders protesting against what he intends to say with the film. 
 
  Seemingly in response to that,   put up a video on his social media with the caption, “Me beating the s**t out of imaginary   of @mia_malkova ‘s #GodSexTruth” (sic) The video that has garnered 156k views, 1015 shares, more than 15k likes and numerous comments at the time of writing, features   beating up several men. 
 
  While it is unknown if the video is specifically in response to the protests by the women, it is safe to assume that the filmmaker knows his film isn’t being exactly met with enthusiasm from everyone. Then again, RGV has never been one to care about the response his films and statements seem to get. 
 
  Previously, announcing his upcoming ‘God, Sex and Truth’, he had posted on social media, “What I did in GOD ,SEX and TRUTH is to project a radical thought process through a treatise of Mia Malkova to make people lose both their hypocrisy and their guilt to become free willed sexual beings and just immerse themselves in a sea of sexual joy.” (sic)
 
  The short film is all set to release on January 26, 2018 and features music by  , credited as  . Talking about him, he wrote, “From the music composer,who created not only the tremendously larger than life musical score of BAHUBALI but also the spiritual overtures of ANNAMAYYA ,to see such a heart felt artistic response towards the subject matter of sex was truly a revelation for me in understanding M M Kreem’s commitment to truth.” (sic)
 
  While the trailer has received 4.1 M views in six days, with Mia Malkova also promoting the film on her social media, it remains to be seen how many views it will garner upon release. 
 
