NEW DELHI:   opened their account in style as they registered a comprehensive 46-run victory against   in their fourth Indian Premier League match at the Wankhede stadium in Mumbai on Tuesday. 

 
 
 
 Chasing a mammoth 214-run target, skipper   remained unbeaten on 92, but his teammates failed to give him company in the middle as RCB managed 167/8 in 20 overs. Kohli hit four sixes and seven fours during his quick-fire 62-ball innings.
 
 
 
 
 
 Krunal Pandya (3/28),   (2/24),   (2/28) and Mayank Markande (1/25) were among the wickets for the home side.
 
 Kohli and   gave RCB a good start in their chase as the visitors reached 40/0 after four overs. The duo smacked a six and six fours in the first 24 balls. 
 
 
 
 
 
 New Zealand pacer McClenaghan broke the stand when he clean bowled de Kock, who scored 19 off 12 balls with the help of a six and two fours, with the first ball of the fifth over. McClenaghan then dismissed another South African in AB de Villiers three balls later to put MI in the front.
 
 Kohli rebuilt the chase with Mandeep Singh and added 33 runs in 4.5 overs for the third wicket. But Krunal jolted the RCB chase with two wickets in two balls in the tenth over. First, Mandeep (16) was stumped by Ishan Kishan and Corey Anderson, making his season debut, hit it straight to substitute fielder JP Duminy at the deep mid-wicket in the next ball. RCB were reduced to 75/4 in 9.4 overs. 
 
 Krunal then removed allrounder Washington Sundar in his next over to return with figures of 3 for 28 in four overs. Sarfaraz Khan's bad form continued as he became Mayank Markande's only victim of the day as the legspinner took back the purple cap. 
 
 Kohli kept one end intact for the visitors and reached his fifty off 41 balls, which included a six and five fours. With asking rate climbing higher and higher, RCB again lost two wickets, Umesh Yadav and Chris Woakes, in one over this time to Bumrah in the 18th. As the chase virtually ended with the visitors needing 80 off final three overs, even though Kohli kept the boundaries coming. 
 
 Sent in to bat, MI made a grand recovery from a shock start through sparkling half centuries from captain   and Evin Lewis to post a formidable 213/6.
 
 Left-handed Lewis struck five sixes and six fours in his 42-ball 55. And after his dismissal, Rohit, who flopped in the first three games, took over the lead role to hammer 94 in 52 balls before departing off the penultimate ball, caught at long on. He smashed five sixes and 10 fours. It was MI's first score in excess of 200 in four games this season.
 
 All the RCB bowlers went for runs, including Umesh Yadav in his second spell. Spinners Washington Sundar (0/32 in two overs) and Yuzvendra Chahal (0/32 in three overs) were particularly expensive.
 
 MI made a horrific start losing Suryakumar Yadav (0) and Ishan Kishan (0) off the first two balls from Umesh. Both were clean bowled by Umesh. 
 
 MI were rallied superbly by skipper Rohit and Lewis who put on 108 runs in 66 balls for the third wicket. Lewis set the tone with a pulled six off Chris Woakes and then Rohit followed suit with a spanking drive for four to the first ball from Sundar who was then struck for two more fours to fine leg by Lewis. The tall off-spinner also conceded five wides in the fourth over that yielded 19 runs. Mohd Siraj was smacked for a huge six by Lewis off the first ball as 35 runs came off the fourth and fifth overs. 
 
 Lewis raced to his maiden half century off 32 balls with a slog-swept six off leggie Chahal and the momentum had swung firmly MI's way. Chahal was then struck for two leg side sixes by Lewis who was later caught behind off a leading edge. Corey Anderson nipped the third wicket stand.
 
 The run-rate dropped on Lewis's fall in the 12th over and then picked up when Rohit blasted Yadav for a six and a four in successive balls to reach his 50 in 32 balls in the 15th over. The home team captain continued his splendid work till the last over, smashing Yadav and others mercilessly before being caught off Anderson with one ball to go. 
 
 
 
 
