PANAJI: Uninterrupted power supply, a reliable and cost-effective internet connection and availability of talent, these are the basic needs of Goa's information and technology (IT) sector. While a comprehensive IT and IT startup policy will boost the sector, Goa's IT entrepreneurs say that the basic needs of the industry continue to be unresolved and a pain point that prevents expansion. 

 
  
 
 The state ministry for IT has already released the Goa Startup Policy - 2017 and IT minister   has promised a revamped IT Investment Policy.
 
  Both the policies are big on promises with a greenfield IT park at Chimbel and an electronic manufacturing cluster (EMC) at Tuem being the main focus of the state government. Though the policies are expected to bring in schemes to encourage the  , the industry is worried about the implementation. 
 
  "When we look at internet, IT companies are paying ridiculous amounts for high-speed internet with even two back-up connections," said president of Goa Technology Association and CEO of Umang Software Technologies Mangirish Salelkar. 
 
 "Goa has internet connectivity but it has to be cost effective and reliable."
 
 Ease of doing business, especially a single-window system for approvals would also be helpful says industry stakeholders. IT companies with even 10-25 employees are made to obtain permissions from local panchayats, fire and emergency services, health and labour department which is time consuming.
 
 "There needs to be better policies to improve ease of doing business to facilitate growth of the ecosystem primarily solving infrastructure and cost of setting up issues. An approval mechanism or single window clearance will help and this is already part of the policy," founder of Androcid Media Prajyot Mainkar said.
 
 However, not everyone showed restraint with the direction and pace shown by the government and many felt that the government was wasting time in implementing the policy.
 
 "The government should get the basics right. Instead of spending money on the IT park, the same money can be used to improve the fibre optic network in Goa. Even electricity supply is erratic," an IT firm based in Porvorim said.
 
 
