GURUGRAM: The owner of a plot in   who had been fined Rs 75,000 a few days ago for digging deep into the foothills of the Aravalis to lay an approach road to his land has allegedly started drilling again. Several residents of the Sector 55 township said on condition of anonymity that they had seen earthmovers being pressed into service around the Aravalis.

 TOI had on January 5 reported that the district mines department had fined the plot owner Rs 75,000 for violating the mining rules around the ecologically sensitive zone. 
 
 Sources said there was no digging since the man was fined, but for the past couple of days.
 
 Several officials this   approached failed to give any details about the alleged offender, except that he is a Delhi resident.
 
 “We saw some earthmovers digging around the foothills of the Aravalis, beyond the boundary of the township. There was no drilling for the past few days but it resumed this Saturday and Sunday. Not many people are on vigil during the weekends. It seems the fine of Rs 75,000 was little a deterrent to the plot owner,” said a resident, requesting that he be not identified.
 
 Told that illegal digging had resumed,   Basudev Yadav said: “We had taken strict action against the plot owner as soon as we came to know that he was building a road in the township without permission. While the owner has been allowed by the mining department to clear the area of his plot, we will have to ascertain if he is digging beyond the boundary. If he is found violating the provisions, we will have to take action again.”
 
 Sources said the alleged offender owned three or four plots — 60 square yards each — on the edges of the township and was trying to build a 15-20-metre wide approach road to his land in Block F. A visit to the area earlier this month had revealed that labourers working under him had already cut 60 square yards into the hills. Asked the need to build the pathway, one of the labourers had said the developer had allotted the plots without any approach road.
 
 Sources said many plot owners had extended their allotted land by cutting deep into the foothills of the Aravalis, prompting officials to raise eyebrows.
 
