CHENNAI: After a gruesome accident near   in the suburbs in which a government bus rammed an SUV parked on the roadside killing five of a family instantly, the state transport department has prohibited vehicles from   along the sides on  .

 Vehicles can be parked only along the designated parking bays if the driver wished to take a break, a transport department official told TOI.
 
 “In case of very short breaks like attending phone calls or addressing minor medical issues, the drivers can park for a few minutes – that too only beyond the yellow line marked on the side,” the official added.
 
 Violation of this rule will attract a fine in the range of Rs 200 to Rs 500 depending on the category of vehicles, as per existing government norms.
 
 The Madurantagam accident reported in December 2017 is not an isolated case. A total of 724 people were killed in 3,020 road accidents involving parked vehicles on roadsides in   in 2015-16.
 
 Though the National Highways (Land & Traffic) Act, 2002, restricts unauthorised parking of vehicles on highways, it has not been implemented effectively. However, a circular instructing highway patrol teams not to go soft on these violations any more was sent recently by the state authorities to overcome this menace.
 
 “Nearly Rs 80 crore has been released for purchasing 80 new patrol vehicles and setting up new control rooms for effective implementation of the said rule in letter and spirit,” said a highways department official.
 
 At present, there are 270 highway patrols in Tamil Nadu monitoring 12,000km of highways.
 
 “With new vehicles, uncovered areas in some districts can be monitored. Besides clearing stationary vehicles on accident sites, the patrols have been instructed to help road accident victims for quicker medical assistance,” the official said.
 
 However, truck owners question the availability of parking bays on many highway stretches in Tamil Nadu. “It’ll be unfair to penalise vehicle owners without providing adequate number of parking bays,” said D Aarumugam, a driver from Madurai. 
 
 
