COIMBATORE: The erring contractors with the city corporation have finally come under the scanner of the state government, which is likely to initiate action against them if they were found guilty of compromising on the quality of work and financial irregularities, among other things.

 However, small-time contractors termed the move an eyewash, saying the contractors in question were close to the ruling party. 
 
 The office of the commissioner of municipal administration has, meanwhile, collected more than 350 files pertaining to the projects implemented by as many as 22 contractors in the city corporation limits over the past couple of years. The files would be thoroughly scrutinized and action would be initiated against them, if discrepancies were to be found.
 
 TOI had earlier (on Feb 6) reported that the state government had unearthed a large scale corruption by one of the contractors of Coimbatore Municipal Corporation, R Rajan. Official sources said it was not just   and the net was actually wider covering 22 contractors, who were often awarded major projects.
 
 There are 282 contractors listed with the corporation, of which nearly 30 major ones bag all the road projects and 50 others take up other civil projects.
 
 The contractors in question, a source said, were involved in road laying, drain construction and other infrastructure work costing several crores. Besides the quality of work, officials would also probe if these 22 had formed a cartel to prevent other contractors from bagging projects. Officials also suspect financial irregularities.
 
 “Besides scrutinising the project files thoroughly, we will also conduct field verification,” said a senior official with the municipal administration department.
 
 Other contractors, though apprehensive about the outcome of the probe, admitted that majority of the projects were bagged by these handful of influential contractors. “All these contractors are close to ruling party leaders. So, it is strange that they are being probed. This is just an eyewash,” said one of the smaller contractors sidelined by the cartel.
 
 Another contractor said even the corporation officials were involved in the irregularities and the state government should order an inquiry against them as well.
 
 A senior state government official said the probe had started earlier this month. “We need to scrutinize all the documents and conduct field verification before taking any action,” the officer said.
 
 
