Wrestle Kingdom 12, the WrestleMania of New Japan Pro Wrestling- the second largest pro-wrestling promotion in the world – lived up to its billing of one of the most exciting wrestling events of the year with another super show that was attended by close to 35,000 fans at the Tokyo Dome yesterday (January 4). With arguably the top three wrestlers in the world in Kazuchika Okada, Kenny Omega and Chris Jericho on show among a plethora of others top-class wrestlers, Wrestle Kingdom 12 was an event to remember. 

 
 
 
 
 
 The 20-man rumble with elimination via over the top rope, pinfall or submission saw former Masahito Kakihara, cancer survivor and pro-wrestler winning the rumble with the Kakli cutter on Cheese Burger. After the match Kakihara said he’s back from beating cancer, and thanked the crowd. He also asked that people continue to send support to Yoshihiro Takayama so he can stand in the Tokyo Dome again someday. 
 
  
  
 
 
 : Delirious, BUSHI, Leo Tonga, Manabu Nakanishi, Yuji Nagata, Katsuya Kitamura, Chase Owens, Jushin “Thunder” Liger, El Desperado, Tiger Mask, TAKA Michinoku, Yoshinobu Kanemaru, Gino Gambino, Toa Henare, YOSHI-HASHI, David Finlay, Yujiro Takahashi, Satoshi Kojima, Hiroyoshi Tenzan, Cheese Burger and Masahito Kakihara
 
 
 
 The Young Bucks claimed their eighth WGP Jr. Tag Championship beating the Roppongi 3K of SHO and YOH managed by Rocky Romero. Nick submitted YOH with the Sharpshooter
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Suzuki-Gun and the team of Elgin, Rowe & Hanson started the match with Sabre Jr. eliminating Rowe with a Triangle Choke. Chaos representative Yano eliminated Suzuki-Gun with a schoolboy roll up on Taichi. Yano Yano then eliminated Taguchi Japan with another Schoolboy on team coach Taguchi. Trent Berreta hit the dudebuster on Bullet Club – defending champions – Tama Tonga for the win. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Ibushi pinned Cody with the Phoenix Splash. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 SANADA (14:14) with the Rounding Body Press on Smith Jr won the titles for his team. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Goto hit the GTR to claim the title. After the match, Suzuki-Gun initially tried to hurry Suzuki away so he could avoid having his head shaved. But then Suzuki walked back to the ring, accepted his defeat and shaved his head himself.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Ospreay with the Oscutter on Scurll became IWGP Jr. Heavyweight Champion for the second time. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Omega (34:36) with the One Winged Angle onto a steel chair pinned Jericho. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Okada with the Rainmaker made his 9th successful defence of the top prize in  . 
 
  
  
 
 
