GURUGRAM: Several   came together in the city after the   of six youths last week for disrupting Friday   at a Sector 43 ground on April 20.

 Terming this practice of offering prayers at open spaces ‘land jihad’, Mahavir Bharadwaj, head of Sanyukta Hindu Sangharsh Samiti, said they were not against any religion but against ‘land-grabbing in the name of religious activities’. “We have formed an umbrella organisation to stop the practice of offering prayers in open areas without any permission,” he said.
 
 Bharadwaj alleged Muslims had started constructing a mosque on Huda land around five years ago after offering prayers on the plot for some time. “Former chief minister Bupinder Singh Hooda had also allotted the land for building a mosque against rules. After our protests, the land was restored to Huda,” he claimed. The land in question was originally in possession of the Waqf board but was later acquired by Huda after paying compensation.
 
 VHP district president Braham Prakash said, “A meeting will be held on Monday to decide their future course of action.”
 
 Former Wazirabad headman Sube Singh Bohra, father of BJP councillor Kuldeep Bohra, was among those who were instrumental in forming a united front, Sanyukta Hindu Sangharsh Samiti, which held a protest on April 30 against the police move to arrest the six men.
 
 The Bohra family is known for its proximity with influential political leaders. Sanyukta Hindu Sangharsh Samiti draws members from Vishwa Hindu Parishad, Akhil Bharatiya Hindu Kranti Dal,  , Shiv Sena, Hindu Jagran Manch, Gurugram Gaurav Sanskritik Samiti, Swadeshi Jagran Manch, Bharat Bachao Abhiyan, Sanskar Bharti and others. Most of their members are traders, budding politicians and unemployed youths. But finding members isn’t difficult because they serve as an entry point to the political system.
 
 Barring VHP and Bajrang Dal, most of these outfits have little or no organisational strength in the city. While VHP, Bajrang Dal, Hindu Jagran Manch, Swadeshi Jagran Manch and Sanskar Bharti are offshoots of RSS, Akhil Bharatiya Hindu Kranti Dal is socio-religious organisation that works for renovation of temples, etc.
 
 Gurugram Gaurav Sanskritik Samiti is engaged in construction of Eklavya Mandir in Khandsa village, while Bharat Bachao Abhiyan and Rashtriya Hindu Sena claim to be social outfits.
 
 The six arrested men, now out on bail, —residents of Wazirabad and Kanhai villages — were picked up on April 26 after a video clip showing them obstructing a prayer congregation at the Sector 43 ground on April 20 went viral. On Friday, Sube Singh blamed the police for converting a ‘small incident’ into a big controversy. “The cops acted in haste and complicated everything. The issue could have been resolved locally with a meeting between all concerned. But police chose to arrest the youths,” he added.
 
 
