MUMBAI: Three people have been   and eight students booked for Monday’s  . One of the three is Firoz Khan, the racket’s  . He is a maths teacher at a Mumbra school, where in his capacity as an invigilator he accessed the history & political science paper from a sealed bundle before leaking it on WhatsApp. 

 His arrest has revealed that the extent of the leak is much wider than thought, and that he leaked four more papers. But what has come as a shock is that he was arrested in 2013 for another   paper leak and in 2015 for sodomizing a student at a coaching centre he runs in Ambernath. How a person with a nasty criminal record could be recruited as a schoolteacher is an answer that many will seek.
 
 The government has repeatedly brought out circulars that police verification of a school’s staff and teachers is a must and yet a person with criminal history was recruited as a teacher.
 
 Khan was arrested from his Ambernath residence by the Amboli police in the early hours on Tuesday. Khan, who runs Brilliant Classes there, leaked five papers from Kids Paradise School, Mumbra, where he works, the police said. Besides history & political science that he leaked on Monday, he leaked algebra on March 10, geometry on the 12th, science-I on the 14th, and Science-II on the 16th.
 
 The others to be arrested are Khan’s aides, office boy Imran Shaikh (45) and IT student Anwarun Hasan (21). Two persons are on the run: Vinita Khatwani, aka Vinita Madam, who runs a coaching centre at Ulhasnagar and whose name surfaced on Monday; and Mona, aka Mona Bhabhi, who is a coaching tutor and is possibly known to Khatwani.
 
 The arrests were possible because of an invigilator, Sandhya Pawar, at MVM High School, Andheri (west). She got suspicious on noticing three students at the exam centre referring to their books and their cellphones simultaneously. This was around 10.35am on Monday, exactly 25 minutes before the history & political science paper was to begin. Pawar informed a senior at the centre. The board was contacted and a complaint registered with the Amboli police around 5.30pm. In her complaint, Pawar said, “I was in the exam hall when I noticed three students standing in the corridor outside the hall watching their mobiles and checking their books. Out of curiosity I checked with them and they stood shocked and scared on seeing me. I checked the mobile of one of the students and found that the paper with the code (N 246) had been posted on his Instagram. I alerted the in-charge of the centre and seized the student’s mobile.”
 
 The student was questioned, and the Instagram forward was traced to another student. An inspection of this boy’s phone led to Hasan, who led to more students at Grant Road, Sion and Badlapu, and also to Khan and Shaikh.
 
 
