KOLKATA : Miscreants hurled bricks at a house in a fledgling neighbourhood in   near Ruby off EM Bypass on Tuesday night, to scare the owner who thwarted a land grab attempt in a nearby plot on Sunday. The family is now scared “to step out of the house”.

  (64), a retired banker and secretary of   in Madurdaha’s  , has been living in the neighbourhood with his family for a decade. The society comprises several spacious, stand alone houses occupied by families.
 
 Guha had seen the sort of terror, unleashed by the miscreants on his family in the dead of the night, only in Bollywood flicks. Late on Tuesday night, Manabendra woke up to the sound of glass panes on windows and doors of his home crashing. He rushed out of his first floor bedroom to find shards of glass scattered around, followed by incessant pelting of bricks. By now, his entire family —comprising his wife, children, elderly father and two pets — was awake and running for cover in the living room.
 
 “We heard the sound of the motorcycle engines outside our house. The attackers were using abusive language. I’ve seen such things only in movies,” said Manabendra. Once the attackers left, Manabendra’s son Saptarshi called up the police.
 
 The society, consisting of 103 plots, was registered in the late 1980s, but was declared a wetland in 2006. As a result, further construction was prohibited by the government. While owners of 38 plots have constructed houses, the rest are lying vacant or in an incomplete state of construction.
 
 “On Sunday, we received information regarding the construction of a boundary wall in one of the plots. When we asked the plot owner about the wall, he said he was not aware of it. A visit to the spot revealed that it was an attempt to grab land. We told the owner to lodge a police complaint,” said Manabendra.
 
 He suspects the miscreants, who were trying to encroach upon the land, may have attacked his house to scare him. “A local goon, infamous for land grabbing, may have done it. Though we haven’t mentioned his name in the FIR, we verbally gave the name to the cops. We’re scared to even step out of our home even during the day, fearing they may harm us even physically,” Manabendra said.
 
 An officer of the Sonarpur police station said that incidents of coercion had become frequent in Madurdaha and most complainants pointed at the syndicate mafia. “The syndicate members try to scare the owners by vandalize their plots or beating up the person from whom the owners try to procure the construction material. They are then forced to purchase it from the syndicates,” said an officer.
 
 Madurdaha, along with Anandapur, Kalikapur and  , has witnessed a construction boom in the last 10 years.. Even the administration seems to have realised that the civic amenities need to catch up with the growing population. Thus, at some of the stretches, connecting roads are being laid. In other pockets, lamp posts are being set up.
 
 Many plot owners TOI spoke to said they were under pressure to purchase construction material from the syndicates. “If you already have a plot and you want to construct a house there is no way you can purchase materials from an independent supplier,” said a resident.
  
