GOLD COAST: Soaking in the party mood at the international zone in the Commonwealth Games Village on Friday evening, 15-year-old   came across as a cool and composed champion. With the CBSE making arrangements for special exams to help him compete on the world stage, the class X student didn’t allow the weight of expectations to trouble him as he took the gold in 25m rapid fire pistol.

 
 
 
 “I was under little pressure but in the last series I scored five out five. So my gold was confirmed. My aim was to improve my score and I did that,” Bhanwala, who became the youngest Indian to win a   gold, told TOI here.
 
 
 
 In the final, Anish, who was named TOISA emerging player of the year, set a new Games Record with a tally of 30 points. Next up is the exams. “My exams are back-to-back – April 16th (Hindi), 17th (Social Studies) and 18th (Maths). Since I’ve brought my books along, I did get some time to study.”
 
 There was no choice for the shooter as the exam dates clashed with the Mexico World Cup, Sydney World Cup and the start of the Commonwealth Games. Ask him about the next target on the range, and the youngster has a rapid-fire answer. “The aim is to finish in the top-5 of the World Championship to bag an Olympic quota place but before that is the Asian Games,” the youngster reeled off his priorities.
 
 
 
 Bhanwala was making waves in modern pentathlon in 2013 when he participated in the World championships in Cyprus, but soon got hooked to shooting. He got addicted to the laser pistol shooting game and his father Jagpal decided to take him to the range.
 
 “In the beginning, it was difficult for us as we had to cough up about a lakh of rupees per month to help both Anish and his elder sister Muskan pursue their shooting. I had to borrow money from relatives and friends to keep it going but due to God’s blessings it has paid off,” Anish’s father Jagpal told TOI from Faridabad.
 
 “We moved to Faridabad from Karnal to help the kids focus on shooting. For a few months, I wondered whether I had made the right move by getting them into shooting risking even their studies,” he added.
 
 Anish started firing with a second hand weapon borrowed from friends, but in 2015 both he and his sister got new pistols in 2015, thanks to the efforts of Olympic Gold Quest. Four years down the line, Anish is the new Commonwealth Games champion.
 
