CHANDIGARH: The tax branch of the Chandigarh municipal corporation has finally started sending commercial properties bills to property owners of the city. While there are around 23,000 commercial properties in Chandigarh, the civic body has sent bills to around 20,000 commercial building owners situated in the different sectors till date. The commercial property tax is one of the most crucial segments of revenue generation of the civic body as the authority had earned around Rs 30 crore from such properties during the last financial year that ended on March 31, 2018. 

 While the general house of the municipal corporation has enhanced commercial property tax from the current financial year starting from April 1, 2018, the UT administration has yet to issue a notification in this regard. As a result, currently the bills are being sent on the previous commercial property rates.
 
 "Since the general house of the   has passed commercial property tax enhancement by 10%, we had sent the same for approval of the local bodies government of the Chandigarh administration. However, the department has not issued a notification in this regard. Therefore, we are left with no option but to issue fresh bills of the current financial year on previous rates. Once the notification is issued by the local bodies department of the Chandigarh administration, we will ask the people to deposit enhanced charges," said a senior officer of the municipal corporation.
 
 The tax branch of the civic body has given time till May 31 for self-declaration and if the owner of the commercial property will deposit the amount before the said date, they will get 10% rebate from on the entire tax amount. After May 31, the owner will have to pay penalty charges as well as interest on the full amount.
 
 As, the number of the commercial properties have increased manifold in past one decade, the civic body had hired a private agency for identification of such properties throughout the city. The company visited each municipal ward and sector to identify properties and later submitted the list to the authority concerned.
 
 
