NEW DELHI: Like on several occasions in the past, Sushma   was once again quick to respond to a   user's problem on Monday. 

 
 Chandar Nandi, who said he was turning 70 next year, tweeted on May 13 evening seeking the help of the  . He said that he and his wife had been selected to undertake the   but had been put in separate batches, and his wife would find it difficult to do the yatra alone. 
 
  
  
 
 He promptly got a witty response from Swaraj who tweeted, "the computer is guilty of separating you," going on to assure the man that his issue would be resolved.
 
  
  
 
 The external affairs minister is very active on the microblogging site. Just last week she gave a lesson in geography to a Jammu & Kashmir student studying in Philippines whose Twitter bio said he was from "Indian Occupied Kashmir."
 
 Sheikh Ateeq had tweeted to Swaraj for help with his damaged passport on Wednesday. “I am from J&K doing medicine course here in Philippines my passport got damaged I applied for new one 1 month ago I request u pls help me to get it as i literally need to go home for medical checkup (sic),” Ateeq had tweeted on Wednesday morning from his now deleted Twitter account @SAteEQ019.
 
 The very next day, Swaraj replied saying help was certainly possible, but his location, as outlined by him, was a problem. "If you are from J&K state, we will definitely help you. But your profile says you are from 'Indian occupied Kashmir'. There is no place like that," she replied on Thursday morning.
 
 Her tweet prompted Ateeq to modify his location to "Jammu & Kashmir/Manila" barely 15 minutes after the minister replied to him. Soon after the modification, Swaraj acknowledged the change, tagging the Indian embassy in Manila, asking them to assist the student. “I am happy you have corrected the profile. Jaideep - He is an Indian national from J&K. Pls help him,” the minister tweeted. Jaideep Mazumdar is India’s ambassador to Philippines.
 
 
  
  
 
 Earlier in May, Swaraj responded to a tweet by singer Adnan Sami who said his staff were mistreated and called "Indian dogs" by officials in Kuwait airport.
 
 "We came to your city with love and our Indian brethren embraced us with it. You gave no support. Kuwaiti airport immigration mistreated my staff for no reason and called them 'Indian Dogs'! When you were contacted you did nothing!! How dare d Kuwaitis behave like this with arrogance?!", said Sami in his tweet.
 
 Swaraj, it appears, once again, responded swiftly, asking him to call her, because in his subsequent tweet, Sami thanked her.
 
 
