KOLKATA: This could be the biggest decongestion initiative in Kolkata with the potential to free the roads of nearly 600 trucks with containers. From February 2, Tirupati Vancom Pvt Ltd will begin operating the roll-on-roll-off (Ro-Ro) services with large vessels that can carry 500 trucks a day between the two banks of  . For starters, container trucks will be shipped between Garden Reach on the east bank and Botanic Garden on the west. Thereafter, more crossover points will be added between Budge Budge and Uluberia and finally   and Haldia.

 
 If everything moves according to plan, container trucks that trudge through Garden Reach Circular Road, Kidderpore Road, Hastings and Second Hooghly Bridge, causing traffic snarls and emission pollution, could cross the river on a boat and then head to the destination from the opposite bank in Howrah. With more cross-over points lined up in future, it could solve the post-9pm mess on AJC Bose Road, BT Road and Nivedita Setu.
 
 
  
 
 Rajiv Agarwal, the managing director of the private firm that is gearing up to begin the Ro-Ro services, said Kolkata Port Trust, Inland Waterways Authority of India and the state had already given a nod to the operations.
 
 “IWAI has given us permission to use the banks o f the river. We have bought land to set up jetties so that trucks can drive on to the vessels and off them without trouble,” said Agarwal.
 
 In the next few months, the group plans to invest Rs 150 crore to set up infrastructure and add more vessels. Each vessel has a capacity of 25 trucks per trip. A state official said there was reasonable preparedness to get the project off the ground.
 
 “A 40-feet road connects Botanic Garden to   and Kona Expressway. After crossing over to west bank of Hooghly, the trucks will be able to take either National Highway 2 or 6 without much hassle,” said Agarwal.
 
 Though fares have not been computed, it is likely to be in the range of Rs 800-1,000 for a fully-laden truck to cross over and half of that for an empty truck. It will entail savings of nearly Rs 2,500-3,000 per trip for truckers as they burn less fuel, reduce tyre wear and tear and cut down on idle time during the day when trucks are not allowed to ply in the city. For the city, the biggest gain will be reduced congestion and less pollution.
 
 There is a ferry service in Namkhana, but it can carry only two trucks at a time. The Ro-Ro service is more popular in neighbouring Bangladesh where rivers criss-cross the land. In India, Gujarat has Ro-Ro services, as does Goa. Tirupati Vancom has started services linking   and  . A Ro-Ro service has also been proposed between Mumbai and Alibag.
 
