A day after a 26-year-old man was lynched in Chamarajpet, Bengaluru, by a   that mistook him for a child-lifter, police on Thursday arrested 14 people, including two minors and four women. With the help of his Aadhaar card, police identified the victim as Kaluram, a native of Rajasthan.

 Late on Thursday, the Pulikeshinagar police rushed to Fraser Town to rescue two women being assaulted by a mob. The women were loitering around the railway track near Pottery Road, when public attacked them,
 
 
 assuming they were childlifters. The police could not immediately establish who the women were, but they confirmed that they have been rescued and taken to a hospital. Additional commissioner of police (East) Seemanth Kumar Singh, also confirmed to TOI that the mob had attacked and damaged a Hoysala vehicle that reached the spot. Personnel at the station said: “There is still tension and we have our men trying to contain it.”
 
 Wednesday’s lynching is believed to have been triggered by fake videos and rumours that are being circulated through WhatsApp. A video showing kidnappers from neighbouring states has triggered panic across many districts in Karnataka.
 
 Of the eight men arrested, police identified six — Ambu, 26, Vasanth Kumar, 32, Gopi, 18, Balan, 30, Nanda, 20, Tirumalesh, 28, and Rajesh, 18 — while withholding the name of one person. The women accused are Anusha, 30, Susheela, 37, Indira, 37, and Vani, 41, while the two others are minors.
 
 
 3 lynched in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh
 Social media rumours in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh have triggered widespread mob frenzy. Three people were lynched in the past four days and four others were brutally assaulted on Thursday, the attacks were spurred by panic WhatsApp messages about child-lifting gangs that “smash skulls to devour brains”. The three cases of lynching were reported from Vikarabad, Nizamabad and Yadadri districts. Even cities like Hyderabad, Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam are not immune to the rumours.
 
