Politicians from his own party are causing problems for chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. Food and civil supplies minister  's statement on the government's stability caused a flutter in the political circles.   MP Sanjay Kakade said that the   would be unable to form the government in  . 

 Former minister Eknath Khadse raised the banner of revolt after his exit from the state cabinet. Two BJP leaders from Vidarbha-MP Nana Patole and legislator   Deshmukh-registered their dissent. Patole joined the Congress, Deshmukh is yet to decide his future course. Water supply minister Babanrao Lonikar recently said that Fadnavis and the state finance minister were not releasing funds for crucial projects. Public works minister Chandrakant Patil said that since honest workers are unavailable it was difficult to set up state-run corporations and boards. 
 
 
 
  Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has found that bureaucrats from the state were taking matters pertaining to human rights violations casually. The NHRC observed that: "Their lackadaisical attitude is resulting in delay of grievance redressal and that there would be no need to bother the chief secretary in each matter if other officers are sensitive to the public's rights. Chief secretary   has now issued a circular directing bureaucrats to adhere to NHRC guidelines. Recently, alarm bells rang after the NHRC issued a non-bailable warrant against a bureaucrat. The public health department released a Rs 3 lakh payout to the father of a girl who died after immunisation only after the NHRC asked the public health secretary to remain present before the panel. In another case, Rs 1 lakh was paid after a consumer forum took the public health department to task.
 
 
 
 
  In Meghwadi police station, a sub-inspector was trapped while accepting a bribe of Rs 10,000. At Shivaji Park police station, a sub-inspector demanded Rs 50,000 to grant concession in daily attendance at the police station, but the cop settled for Rs 10,000. The   intervened and the cops were caught. Old-timers are questioning the responsibility of seniors, in case their subordinates indulge in corruption in the police station. 
 
 They said it appears that cases of graft are on the rise due to lack of supervision. More than a decade ago, then police chief M N Singh had fixed the responsibility on the senior inspector. If any official was caught in the police station, then the senior inspector was shifted the same day.
 
 
