VADODARA:   at the new court complex has triggered an   over last three days. But on Wednesday, the lawyers raised another   in the  

 Several areas in the annexe building in the court campus which was to be used by the lawyers were not cleaned before they were handed over to them, the lawyers alleged. Photos and videos which were taken on the first working day, when the vandalism took place, were widely circulated.
 
 The photos and videos suggest that the toilets in the annexe building were completely soiled and were not in a state to be used before the building was given to lawyers. Besides circulating the photos and videos, the lawyers have also turned to social media to put forth their view before the public.
 
 “The picture that was portrayed on the first day showed us as villains. We were criticized and abused on social media websites, but we want the public to know the reality. The seating arrangement is not according to our satisfaction, but at least look at the condition of the building. People should come and see so that they understand that our demands are not wrong,” said a lawyer.
 
 Meanwhile, on second day of the indefinite hunger strike a female advocate – Hema Jaiswal, who was also on hunger strike – collapsed and had to be hospitalised. On Tuesday, Edwin Dabhi had collapsed due to sunstroke due to which he had to be taken to a private hospital on Old Padra Road.
 
 The agitating lawyers have decided to form a human chain at the gates of the new court complex on Thursday . 
 
 Lawyers file RTI plea
 
 An application under Right to Information (RTI) Act was filed by 35 lawyers on Tuesday. The application addressed to information officer of district court seeks information about the tenders and other details including the purchase orders of the chairs and tables bought for the lawyers. The lawyers have also sought information about the communication between the Baroda Bar Association and the court, besides the copies of letters exchanged between the district judge, state government and the high court in last three years about the new court complex. The lawyers in their application have stated that they need the papers and copies to file a petition in the Supreme Court.
 
 Delegation to meet CJ
 
 A delegation of five lawyers from Vadodara will meet the chief justice of Gujarat high court R Subhash Reddy on Thursday over the issue of seating arrangement. “The chief justice has given us an appointment therefore five lawyers including me, and senior advocates Kaushik Bhatt, Shailesh Patel, P R Thakkar and Atul Mehta will meet the chief justice on Thursday evening,” said Nalin Patel, president of Baroda Bar Association. He added that the lawyers will get a positive news after the meeting.
 
 
