KOCHI: Muvattupuzha police arrested a 20-year-old, on Tuesday, for allegedly conspiring with a youth and assisting him to abduct her classmate.

 
 The victim had complained that she was tricked into getting into a car with  , a native of  , by her classmate.
 
 According to the complaint, the accused   told the victim that her father was arrested by police and that her mother is at a safe place. She made her enter the car promising that she would help to locate her mother. Both were final year engineering students in Muvattuppuzha.
 
 Dilshad was waiting in a rented car outside the college and Raseena along with the victim boarded the vehicle. However, the victim got into an argument with the duo, when the vehicle was heading towards Munnar.
 
 The driver of the vehicle sensed trouble and stopped the car. Raseena then fled in a bike which was following the car while Dilshad too fled the scene, said police.
 
 The car driver then informed the girl’s relatives who reached the spot and rescued her. Police said that Dilshad wanted to marry the girl but her family had rejected his proposal a while ago.
 
 “The girl’s marriage was fixed a month ago. Dilshad who was working in Gulf, returned two days ago. His plan was to ruin the girl’s wedding so that he could marry her later. Hence, he plotted to abduct her with the help of her classmate. He also handed over Rs 35, 000 to Raseena for the task,” said police. The woman was granted bail from court on Wednesday while Dilshad is absconding.
 
 
  Aluva East police on Wednesday arrested a man for raping a woman after she eloped with him.
 
 The accused was identified as Farooq, a native of Vengola near Perumbavoor. The woman who is above 18 years of age had eloped with accused to Tamil Nadu. Police tracked the couple through tracing the mobile phone of the accused.
 
 Police said that the accused was booked for rape after the girl gave a statement that she was sexually assaulted while she was with the accused in Tamil Nadu.
 
 The accused who works with a private bus was wanted in several theft cases across various police stations. The accused was produced before a magistrate and remanded in judicial custody.
 
 
 
