INDORE: After two days of investigation, 15 students of   (IET), Devi Ahilya Vishwavidhyalaya (DAVV), were on Wednesday expelled from the hostel for   and slapping them. Seven of them are juniors who helped seniors bully their own batchmates.

 On March 14, some students had filed a complaint with the UGC anti-ragging cell, alleging that a section of fourth year students were   juniors in both the college and hostel relentlessly. The institute recorded statements of 60 students on Tuesday and 23 on Wednesday.
 
 “After the statements, ragging was proved. The accused students have been expelled from the hostel. They have also been barred from all co-curricular activities and warned,” said IET director Sanjeev Tokekar after the anti-ragging committee meeting on Wednesday evening. “The committee conducted a thorough investigation after speaking to the complainants and the accused,” he added.
 
 The committee found eight seniors guilty of misbehaviour and established that they had indeed taken part in ragging. Seven juniors were also expelled from the hostel as they were found helping and promoting their seniors in ragging their batchmates. The enquiry report was sent to UGC on Wednesday right after the meeting.
 
 In their statements to the anti-ragging committee, the victims revealed that seniors used to slap them repeatedly and maintained “slap records” of each student. Juniors were not allowed to make eye contact with seniors and were forced to bow down before them. They said they were ordered to follow instructions given by seniors on a WhatsApp group. These ‘instructions’ ranged from buying cigarettes for seniors to doing projects for them. In return for juniors’ help in the ragging, the accused seniors were promised any sort of help they required throughout their stay in college.
 
 Earlier, DAVV had sent a closure report in the matter to UGC and claimed that the complaint was misleading. However, UGC rejected the report on Sunday and directed the varsity to conduct a fresh probe in the matter.
 
