LUCKNOW: The   on Tuesday asked state government to get three cases of encounters in the state probed by the CBI. The three cases include encounter of Sumit Gujjar in October, Shiv Bahadur Yadav in November and   on February 3. 

  members moved an adjournment notice during Zero Hour alleging that the state government was resorting to fake police encounters to cover its failure in curtailing crime.
 
 SP legislators demanded a discussion on large number of police encounters, claiming that as many as 1,142 have taken place till January 31 under BJP government. "But even magisterial inquiry has not been ordered in any of them," said Leader of Opposition in legislative council,  . SP legislators, Jitendra Yadav and Sanjay Lathar said that the government was resorting to encounters to hide its failure in controlling law and order situation in the state.
 
 Lathar said that the case of eight-year-old boy Madhav getting killed during an encounter in Noida exposed government apathy. He said though concerned IG zone admitted that the boy got killed by police bullet, a case of murder was not lodged against accused policemen.
 
 SP members said that the alleged encounter of Jeetendra Yadav in Noida was even more brazen case of police atrocity. Yadav is still recuperating in a Delhi hospital.
 
 Replying on the behalf of government, rural development minister Mahendra Singh informed the House about the action taken in all these incidents.
 
 Council chairman Ramesh Yadav rejected the adjournment notice, but asked the government to get CBI probe conducted in the three incidents. Leader of Opposition, Hasan, a former IPS officer, said that most of the encounters appeared to be clear cases of cold-blooded murder executed by police. "The situation is very grim and people are living under the fear of losing their life," said Hasan, demanding inquiry by CB-CID in the remaining encounter cases. Later, cabinet minister and leader of house in council, Mahendra Singh sent a letter to chairman Ramesh Yadav saying that the House did not have the jurisdiction of ordering probe by CBI. He said that such orders can only be issued by   or a high court.
 
 
