NEW DELHI: Olympian long jumper   stirred up a hornet’s nest on Monday by saying that the   (ISL) has left the Indian track and field athletes in deep trouble. With the   season on, the   arenas have become out of bounds for training and hosting competitions.

 Anju, the only Indian athlete to win a World Championships medal, said that football has taken over the athletics venues everywhere, and there was one instance where she had to fight with the authorities in the sports ministry to block the ISL’s proposed move to build a football training site at the expense of an athletics track inside the Sports Authority of India (SAI) regional centre in Bengaluru.
 
 
 
 “This is a big problem. Our top athletes are fighting for their existence since they don’t have a place to train. As a government observer for athletics, I spoke to the ministry officials several times in this regard… had frequent communication with them to stop the proposed move for a football site at SAI Bengaluru centre. Why can’t they (ISL people) build their own training venues? Our athletes are struggling to find space for training,” Anju fumed.
 
 “Look at the   in Delhi, Kanteerava stadium in Bengaluru or JLN Stadium in Chennai. You cannot use these venues as a football tournament is going on. Where do the athletes go? These stadia in Delhi, Chennai and Bengaluru have good tracks and are basically meant for athletics tournaments. They are not being used for that now,” added Anju, who was here to announce the Federation Cup National Senior Athletics Championships to be held in Patiala from March 5 to 8.
 
 
 
 
 Athletics Federation of India (AFI) AFI secretary CK Valson alleged that the government is favouring football over athletics and informed that this year’s Federation Cup has to be forcibly shifted out of the JLN stadium in Delhi to NIS Patiala due to ISL’s schedule.
 
 What Valson did not mention was that the Delhi Dynamos, the city-based club, will play their last home fixture here on March 2 against Pune City FC while the Federation Cup is starting only on March 5. A SAI official countered the AFI’s claim, saying the money paid by the ISL clubs is important for the upkeep of stadia. “To maintain infrastructure across cities, the SAI needs money and the ISL clubs are paying. The AFI isn’t. These are all multisport venues and all the federations have to plan their competition calendar accordingly,” the official reacted.
 
 TOI spoke to an ISL official and he offered an insight into how much each club is paying to the authorities. “Each ISL club is paying the SAI anywhere between Rs 1 to 1.5 crore for the entire season. Dynamos paid Rs 1.2 crore for their home matches. Chennaiyin FC paid the JLN stadium authorities Rs 1.7 crore for the season. Bengaluru FC paid roughly around Rs 1.2 crore and ATK has paid Rs 1 crore. The staggering amount itself tells the story,” said the official.
 
