AHMEDABAD: While the state government has undertaken a campaign of deepening reservoirs for better water recharge across the state, its decision to de-notify a waterbody in Vadodara and build houses on the land was questioned before   high court on Monday.

 Justice   has stayed the state government’s decision to de-notify the   in Tandalja area paving way for a private developer to construct houses for people of economically weaker section on the waterbody which was declared a lake by way of notification in 2005. The HC’s interim order on the government’s decision taken on April 27 has temporarily stayed the housing project.
 
 The 48,259 square metre land in TP Scheme No 22 in Tandalja in Vadodara city has been a recognized waterbody since 1952, claimed a PIL and it urged the HC that the state government and Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) should be restrained from constructing 1,400 houses under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna on the lake.
 
 In 2016, the VMC initiate a process of de-notifying the lake so that construction can be put up on the land. As many as 1,428 households of a settlement known as Sahkar Nagar was removed from this land in 2017 and they were promised of resettlement on the same plot. VMC’s standing committee passed a resolution that Sahkar Nagar slum would be developed under the housing scheme for the EWS by Cube Construction Engineering Ltd.
 
 For petitioner  , advocate   submitted that the process of de-notifying the waterbody, which was notified in gazette by the government in 2005, was illegal. The construction on 90% area of the lake and retaining only 10% of the waterbody is against the directions issued by the high court in 2002.
 
 Advocate Panchal cited the affidavit filed by the state government in a PIL filed in 2000 giving assurances that all waterbodies in city areas would be preserved and protected. He also cited the   directions for preservation of water bodies. Moreover, it was also submitted that Articles 21, 47, 48-A and 51A(g) of the Constitution give a clear mandate to the state to develop, preserve, protect and improve the environment and waterbodies of the state.
 
 
