CHANDIGARH: A local court on Friday framed charges against   under Sections 302 (punishment for murder) and 304 (2) (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the IPC in the   case that led to the death of a Sector 37 resident last year.

 Col Bains was booked under murder charges, but police had filed the chargesheet under the Section of culpable homicide not amounting to murder. After lengthy arguments, the court framed charges against him under murder charges alternatively with culpable homicide. This means he will face murder charges but if they are not proved, he will face culpable homicide charges.
 
 Police removed the murder charges in the chargesheet because as per the post-mortem report, Praveen Yadav died of natural causes and there were no scars or injury marks on his body.
 
 The chargesheet, which runs into 500 pages, includes 27 witnesses. Police also included the post-mortem report in the chargesheet. The report said, “The cause of death is acute coronary insufficiency in a case of pre-existing coronary artery disease. There is no external injury on the body.” Also, it was mentioned that there were no scars or injuries on the body of the victim. Police mentioned government doctors and those who conducted the post-mortem as witnesses in the chargesheet.
 
 The complainant’s advocate, Subhash Sagar, argued that it was clear in the FIR that the accused chased Yadav and forced him to stop the car. It was also mentioned that the accused threatened Yadav to come out of the car and when he came out, he thrashed him, which led to his death. It was argued that the accused murdered Yadav and pleaded in court to frame charges against him under Section 302 of the IPC.
 
 Sector 37 resident  , 38, died when Col Manvir Bains, who was on vacation in town, allegedly lifted him up by the collar during a heated argument on the road dividing sectors 34 and 44 on August 2, 2017. Yadav fell unconscious on the spot and Bains, a resident of Mohali’s Phase VII, and people accompanying him, fled. He was arrested after passers-by informed the police. Col Bains was on study leave at the time of the incident. He had been granted bail by the Punjab and Haryana high court.
 
 
