VADODARA: For the first time, the ‘Sankalan Samiti’, considered to be rival of the ruling saffron group in   (MSU), released a   for upcoming syndicate elections. The group claims that the manifesto was released to restore the glory of MSU and become a world class university.

 The ‘Sankalan Samiti’, which consists of members of the BJP, RSS, its student outfit –   – and teachers outfit – Maharaja Sayajirao Vishwavidyalay Shaikshik Sangh, in its manifesto has promised to take decisions that will benefit students, women in the university and the staff.
 
 For students, the group has promised to ensure timely results and help them achieve employment goals. Besides that, basic infrastructural development of drinking water, washrooms, proper lab facilities and smart classrooms have also been mentioned in the manifesto.
 
 Several promises have been made for staff of the university which includes inclusive HR policies, timely promotions under CAS, merit-based appointments, appointments of convenors and directors of various cells on the basis of seniority and talent, removal of discrimination against temporary staff among others. In terms of academics, the manifesto talks about eliminating arbitrariness to restore academic activities.
 
 Constitution of academic council and calling meeting of the senate twice in the year have also been proposed. Promises of making MSU an innovation-centred university and prioritizing transparency in the system have also been proposed.
 
 “We prepared a common agenda which we will implement after coming to power in the syndicate. In past three to four years different groups were there and there has been a fearful atmosphere in the university for teachers,” said Dr Adeesh Jain of Department of Surgery, a member of the group. He added that the group wants to remove the fearful atmosphere from MSU and steer the university towards academics.
 
 
  
 
 Another member of the ‘Sankalan Samiti’ said that the group will announce its candidates on February 18, a day before last date to file the nominations. It was on Wednesday, that eight candidates supported by the ruling saffron group had filed their nominations for the 14 seats of syndicate body for which polls will be held on February 27.
 
 
