BHOPAL: Seeking to show the world that he is as capable as the next person, disabled swimmer   is set to create history by becoming part of a swimming relay team which, for the first time will see four para swimmers from India cross the English Channel.

 
 The   swimmer will be joined by three others who will attempt the daring feat in June this year. In May last year, Singh had completed a 36-km swim in  , clocking in at 5 hours and 43 minutes, as part of his preparation for the mighty English Channel challenge.
 
 Interestingly, 29-year-old Singh is the first person in India with 75 per cent disability to complete the 36-km Arabian Sea swim. Despite his inability to use his lower limbs, Singh is ready to take on the 33.3-km Dover Strait swim in the English Channel.
 
 Singh will leave for England on May 26 and will first participate in the British para swimming international meet which will be held in Sheffield, UK. The competition will take place from May 31to June 3.
 
 Following that, four para swimmers including Satendra Singh will attempt relay from June 21 in the English Channel. The other three swimmers include   (Kolkata), Jagdish Chandra (Rajasthan) and Giridhar Raut (Amravati). Singh will there onwards attempt to cross the English Channel by himself.
 
 
 
 
 
 Though he has put up a brave face for the big challenge to come, Singh’s journey has not been easy in any terms.
 
 The 29-year-old swimmer cannot go anywhere without his wheelchair, but represented the country at the 2016 Paralympics in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil and has also brought the state laurels at several national meets. In 2014, he was presented the Vikram Award by CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan.
 
 “I have become more confident now to complete the English Channel swim. Last year I was not that much prepared,” Singh said speaking about the task at hand. Singh gives credit to senior bureaucrat P Narhari and Prof D K Dabas who have constantly stood by him. “These two gentlemen have been there to support and encourage me ahead of this difficult task. I have no words to thank them,” said Satendra.
 
 Last year, Singh had not been given permission to swim at Upper Lake. Following that, Satendra went on to swim in the Arabian Sea where he completed his 36-km swim.
 
 “I have proved that disability is not a weakness. It only encourages me to do better and be as good as any other normal athlete,” Satendra added. 
 
