The BMC’s work on over 30% of the roads it took up for reconstruction or repairs will remain unfinished even at the onset of the monsoon, which is less than three weeks away as per forecasts.

 
 Compared to the last roadwork cycle (October 2016 to March 2017), in the current cycle (October 2017 to March 2018), the   took up an even greater number of roads for repair or reconstruction.
 
 
  
 
 This, despite its contractors being unable to finish well over a sixth of the roads taken up in the last cycle. This time, the BMC’s load was 1,878 roads, including major work (road reconstruction from the foundation up) and repairs (resurfacing or revamp of small stretches). Of these, civic contractors have been able to finish work on only 772 roads.
 
 The BMC has said that 522 roads, on which work is still in progress, will be ready by the month-end. That leaves 584 roads. The BMC said on Monday that work on these will “spill over”. 
 
 This is the civic body’s term for projects that its contractors are unable to complete before the onset of rains. It means these 584 roads will be temporarily covered up and then reopened again after the monsoon is over. 
 
 This temporary arrangement often leaves roads vulnerable to the ravages of flooding. Their hastily laid surfaces often crack up or cave in. Of course, there is also the question of wastage of funds, though the BMC maintains that the contractor’s responsibility for such temporary work is a part of the contract conditions. “But isn’t it the taxpayer who ultimately foots the bill?” asks a concerned citizen.
 
 There’s another issue that citizens are unhappy about. The BMC decided to do away with paver blocks, but they are being freely used even on some of the city’s most important roads. “Recently, at  , after storm water drain work, the contractor surfaced the road with paver blocks,” said   from the   (CHCRA).
 
 “The same is true of   as well. Paver blocks have a history of coming unstuck, making the surface uneven, especially during the monsoon.”
 
 
