JALANDHAR: Ranjit   is a popular preacher and Damdami Taksal, an influential Sikh seminary. Dhadrianwale’s “diwans” are usually packed with devoted followers hanging onto every word he speaks while   has its own die-hard folowers.

 I followed the Sant Samaj maryada and preached as their volunteer for 10 to 12 years. People would call me baba and frankly, I liked it. But one day, it dawned on me that the Gurus created the brotherhood and not a hierarchy among Sikhs. Even the great Sikhs of the Guru period were called bhai. I also realized that more people were becoming babas. I realized that if I did not take a stand, I would be guilty of promoting the trend of babas. So I decided that I should only be called bhai (brother), who is like a fellow Sikh, with no superiority over others.
 
 Harnam Singh Dhuma
 
 
 
 
 We do not want traditional interpretation and history to be subjected to controversies. Any issues should be discussed at the Akal Takht, but they are using acrimonious language, which hurts the faithful Sikh. There were big scholars in the community, but such acrimonious language was never used. If somebody follows the draft of the   maryada, we have never objected. We have never made adverse comments. I think if we have issues, we can resolve these by sitting together. If we can’t, at least we should not add to the controversies.
 
 
 
 It is written on it that it’s a draft. It was never adopted by the general house of the SGPC as the final decision. The Akal Takht did not give final approval but just circulated the draft as the final Rehat Maryada. A consensus should be built on maryada.
 
 
 
 When we organized   at Fatehgarh Sahib in February 2006, he gave us a lot of support. I have not been able to understand what happened after that as he started making adverse comments on us. I don’t know if somebody gave him wrong information. First, he spoke in the UK and made sharp comments on the turban of the Taksal head. Things started from his side but I remained silent for around a year and a half. Then he became more vocal.
 
 In April 2006, I spoke about him and other preachers saying that devout Sikhs were hurt by the things they were saying. I don’t deny that I targeted him as well. After a few days he made very derogatory comments against me, which caused considerable anguish to our people. The resentment kept simmering for around 15 to 20 days. He could have taken steps to resolve it. I was aware of the anguish among Singhs of the Taksal but had no idea that things would escalate so quickly and to such an extent (attack on Dhadrianwale). Had I sent the accused, they would not have taken my vehicles. Everything happened without my knowledge. While I never had any idea about whatever happened, I still maintain that controversies should be resolved.
 
 
 
 I expressed sorrow at the time also and said it was a tragedy. I have never justified the attack on him. I still say it was tragic.
 
 What led to Taksal spokesperson Charanjit Singh Jassowal threatening him?
 
 On May 21, we posted a written clarification on social media saying that what Charanjit Singh said in the May 20 meeting was not part of the agenda. I and others did not like his comments and I didn’t endorse his views in my lecture later. None of us liked it. It should not have happened in our presence.
 
 
 
 
 There were differences earlier but things escalated after the Bargari sacrilege incident.
 
 
 
 
 Although we were siding with the SAD, we criticized the government. We called for Punjab bandh and I was in the forefront, openly speaking against the then DGP. These incidents should not have taken place in the SAD rule. I have never used proximity to the SAD for personal gains. I used it for a few important issues, like building a memorial for 1984 martyrs in Darbar Sahib.
 
 
 
 
 Some preachers interpret Gurbani taking the logical or scientific aspect only. We have to look at the spiritual aspect and they should understand it. Let them study science also and speak about it. Their interpretation is more of a mechanical kind.
 
 It is alleged that the Taksal bats for a traditional interpretation, which has shades of Brahminical influence
 
 It is an unfounded allegation. The Taksal has been firm on the principles of Gurbani.
 
 
 
 
 One side completely rejects it. We say it should be discussed but it can’t be rejected. It is a source of vast knowledge, including Hindu legends. While providing these details, Guru sahib clarified Sikh principles also. Let there be a consensus. Those who rejected it went too far while doing so and we had to answer. We consider the entire Dasam Granth was authored by Guru  . All sides should avoid making it a subject of controversy. Discussions help enhance understanding.
 
 
 
 
 Yes, I feel the same, he never made an adverse comment on the Dasam Granth.
 
 Were there efforts to resolve differences between you and Dhadrianwale?
 
 Nobody has approached me till date. I think the issue should be resolved in the larger interest of the Panth. The SGPC, DSGMC or a few respected personalities should hold discussions to resolve the issue. All sides should avoid acrimonious language and comments. I am available for talks to resolve the issues and hope bigger tragedies are averted.
 
