Poor   among motorists is the main cause for  . Intending to change lanes haphazardly to save journey time, motorists drive in a zig-zag manner to take advantage of whatever space is available on the road. At intersections, they generally tend to swerve left or right and try to squeeze through when the traffic light turns green. This causes slower movement of vehicles at intersections, causing congestion and long hold-ups.

 In Bengaluru, two-wheeler riders are accused of having no knowledge of road discipline. Many riders don’t even spare footpaths in their hurry to reach their destination. Little do they know that they are only slowing down vehicle movement and even causing accidents.
 
 Lane discipline is important to ensure smooth flow of traffic and safety on any given road. It can be either direction or speed-oriented. 
 
 
 
 
 Generally, roads in the city have two or three lanes in each direction. On three-lane roads, motorists who want to turn right should be on the right lane. Those heading straight should be on the centre, while turning left should always be on the left lane. This systematic arrangement can allow faster movement of vehicles on roads and junctions. Buses, however, should always be on the left lane as bus stops are located on the left side of the road. Buses taking a right turn should swerve to the right from the left lane at least 100 metres before the intersection.
 
 In case of two-lane roads, the extreme right lane should be for vehicles going straight or taking a right at the intersection. The left lane should be for vehicles taking a left and going straight. At circles and rotaries, priority should be given to vehicles on the right.
 
 
 
 
 Speed-oriented lane discipline should be mandatory for roads that are long without intersections, especially on highways. In this system, all slow-moving vehicles like trucks, autorickshaws and two-wheelers should move on the left lane and allow faster vehicles like cars and jeeps to their right. Change of lane is allowed only while overtaking. Slow-moving vehicles should return to the left lane after overtaking.
 
 However, it is generally noticed on highways that trucks drive slowly on the right lane, forcing other road users to overtake them from the left. Two parallel, slow-moving vehicles end up slowing down traffic.
 
 Enforcement of lane discipline is one of the most difficult and challenging tasks before police, especially on highways. It requires a large number of police personnel to book violators. Many a time, booking of cases on roads and highways results in traffic hold-ups. Therefore, creating awareness and educating road users is equally important. Special lane-discipline tests should be conducted during issuance and renewal of driving licences. Installation of surveillance cameras and automated challaning of violators is another method to enforce lane discipline. Apart from police and transport department officials, NGOs should come forward to educate people to make roads safer and less congested.
 
 
