MUMBAI: Women commuters flocked to a special desk set up by Central Railway at the   concourse on International Women’s Day and spared a few minutes to complain about or give suggestions on the quality of rail service. Till evening, the desk had received nearly 200 written feedback.

 Many demanded cleaner toilets and more coaches/space for women commuters as the population of working women had increased in recent years. Another common request was for more guards on trains during non-peak hours.
 
 CR general manager D K Sharma visited the desk in the evening and interacted with a few women passengers. He announced that CCTV cameras will be installed not just in women’s, but all suburban coaches soon. He promised action on all suggestions/complaints, whatever was “feasible”.
 
 One written suggestion had been that work on CCTVs be expedited for all coaches and there should also be a guard on every platform, especially at  , round-theclock. A few women demanded that there should be no halt for fast trains at Diva station as this led to regular quarrels in crowded compartments during peak hours.
 
 “There should be separate entry and exit sections at the main gate so that commuters do not clash with each other. It will save women the horror of being molested or pushed around,” wrote   on the pink paper being handed out.
 
 CR and WR carry about 20 lakh women passengers every day.
 
 
 
 
 On Thursday evening, the Deccan Queen had an all-women crew, led by loco pilot Surekha Yadav, the first woman train driver in Asia. Earlier in the morning, the Kalyan-CSMT ladies special was operated by motorwoman Mumtaz Kazi.
 
 Western Railway’s Matunga Road station is being run by an all-women staff from Thursday. The 31-strong team will handle commercial, operations and security departments, with four women RPF personnel. WR deployed women ticket checking staff on Mumbai-Ahmedabad Shatabdi Express; CR did so on   and  .
 
 WR also installed sanitary napkin vending machines in the 2-tier AC coaches of the Mumbai-New Delhi Rajdhani Express while Mamta Sharma, president, Central Railway Women’s Welfare Organisation, inaugurated one at CSMT ladies waiting hall.
 
