HUBBALLI:  , particularly in Mumbai-Karnatak and Hyderabad-Karnatak regions, have a deserted look about them. As the government hasn’t provided   this summer,13 lakh students of primary, higher primary, high schools, madrassa and   (NCLP) schools of about 160 taluks have been deprived of lunch, and poor families have been severely affected.

 
 Midday meals during summer vacation were introduced as the state suffered from drought for four years from 2014. Mohammed Shafi Makandar, member, gram panchayat, Danapur in Koppal district, said Hyderabad-Karnatak region has been badly hit by drought. “Though there was no announcement of a drought this year, farmers could grow only one crop and they’re still in financial crisis,” hesaid.
 
 Somu, a teacher in Koppal, used to spent half a day with children during the past four summers. “During summer, many labourers don’t get jobs. Many parents asked me about midday meals this year. But I had no answer as there was no instruction from the education department,” he said.
 
 Gurusangappa GM, a retired headmaster in Kushtagi, said midday meal has been a lifeline for poor families. “Though the scheme was restricted to drought-hit taluks, it played a vital rolein helping poor families,” he said.
 
 Bapugouda Goudar, a farmer in Karatagi, said there was good rain this year. “When the government was mulling over declaring a drought, our region received delayed rain last October. Due to this, farmers suffered losses but the government did not consider their plight as it went by the rain data given by the meteorological department,” he said.
 
 Akkamahadevi, a teacher in Ron, said there was a rumour of midday meals being provided this summer. “When election dates were announced on March 27, this rumour took a back seat,” she added.
 
 An official in the Dharwad deputy commissioner’s office, said if there were midday meals in summer, it would have hampered the election process. “As we find it difficult to send personnel for poll duty, we cannot have a teacher in school to handle meals.The government may have skipped the meals due to this problem,” he said.
 
 
