AHMEDABAD: Now that all the Class 10 and Class 12 examinations have come to an end, the Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board ( ) has directed all its district education officers (DEO) to examine all the   and tablet footage and list students who had cheated during the examination.

 In a directive, the GSHSEB has asked the DEOs to take the help of the their senior officials to carefully check the CDs so that necessary action can be taken. The board has also made it clear that no student who is innocent should be penalized.
 
 In 2017, the board had caught around 2,500 students cheating. 
 
 The number was relatively high in 2015 when the board introduced CCTV cameras during the examination. As many as 7,500 candidates were caught cheating in examinations like higher secondary certificate (HSC) examination of the science paper, and SSC, among others. All the students were caught when the CDs from the centres were checked.
 
 The DEOs have been asked to carefully examine the CCTV footage. Officials have been asked to carry out the investigation and hearing and later the board would conduct the hearing.
 
 Further, the DEOs have been asked by the board to send the names of such candidates with their seat numbers so that they can be identified soon.
 
 It is worth recalling that the GSHSEB has introduced stricter penalty for the use of technology to cheat during the board exams.
 
 The board had earlier issued guidelines that if a student is found asking for help orally or through sign language, he or she will face action which would include the cancellation of the result of the subject. In the case of mass cheating, the board has decided that the result of not only the subject concerned but also the results of all papers will be cancelled. In addition to this, the students will not be allowed to take board exams the next year.
 
 The board has also specified that when students are caught with chits, they will face the cancellation of the entire result if they have copied from the material. 
 
 Moreover, they will not be allowed to take the exam the next year. If a student has not copied from the chit, only the result of the subject concerned will be cancelled.
 
 
