NEW DELHI: With an eye on the 2019 general elections, autonomous public broadcaster   has launched a new broadcast series ‘Jan Seva Samvad’ to help Union ministers, policy makers and government functionaries connect and communicate with the masses. 

 
 The weekly one-hour radio broadcast, government sources said, is primarily aimed at information dissemination and for spreading the government’s development messages to the last mile audience. 
 
 AIR with its bouquet of 13 language channels, broadcasts over 607 bulletins daily in 92 languages and is, therefore, regarded as a strong medium through which to make an impact and directly communicate with people “about various welfare measures initiated under their aegis”.
 
 The programme, aimed at amplifying the government’s messaging and “dispelling misinformation” against the government featured I&B and textiles minister   in its inaugural programme. 
 
 While information and broadcasting minister Smriti Irani praised PM  , the government’s pro-poor schemes and its achievements, she also voiced her concern over the “complete wash out of the budget session of Parliament”, holding the political opposition responsible for the washout, and underlining how it had adversely affected the common man and the taxpayer. 
 
 Saying that those who hurt democracy will have to face the PM, Irani said Modi “honours democracy not by hindering anyone’s work, but by carrying out a fast to express his anguish” over the non-performance of Parliament. She also said opposition had, despite repeated requests, remained unwilling to discuss issues. If there had been any discussion, everything would have been clear, she said. 
 
 The I&B minister also said while many parties sought votes ahead of elections, it was only the Modi government that had considered the concerns of “the poor woman who coughs in her kitchen” and launched the Ujjwala programme.
 
 Irani also urged AIR to invite other central and state ministers and legislators to talk about how the government’s programmes were being implemented and the “dreams of the Prime Minister for the common masses of India” were being “turned to reality”.
 
