AMARAVATI: Two weeks after he ended the   with the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre,   chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu landed in New Delhi late on Monday night and is slated to test the political waters to find out who will back him on the issue of securing the rights of his state.

 TDP sources told TOI that during his two-day visit to the national capital, Naidu will reach out to the Congress, Samajwadi Party, Bahujan Samaj Party and Trinamool Congress and anyone else willing to support him on the issue of the Centre not granting Special Category Status (SCS) for AP.
 
 On Day One, Naidu will confine himself to the TDP   chambers in Parliament and meet the floor leaders of the political parties who come calling on him. “Our leader will not venture out on Tuesday to meet leaders, including Congress president Rahul Gandhi or Sonia Gandhi. In doing so, he will gauge as to which political party is willing to reach out to the TDP on issues concerning the state as well as exploring the possibility of forging alliances ahead of next year’s elections,” they said.
 
 
 With only three days left for the budget session of Parliament to end, the fate of the no confidence motion tabled by the TDP hangs in the balance. “Naidu will have to reach out to the Congress and other parties as once the budget session ends, the YSR Congress will step up political pressure by its MPs quitting Parliament and sitting on an  ,” said party sources.
 
 
 Irrespective of the developments on Tuesday, Naidu is slated to hold a press conference in Delhi on Wednesday and address the national media before he returns to Vijayawada in the evening. “CM will meet floor leaders of political parties and explain the case of AP to them. The CM’s visit to Delhi is only to garner support for the benefit of the state,” AP ministers Somireddy Chandramohan Reddy and state TDP president Kimidi Kala Venkata Rao told the media after a meeting of the TDP Legislature Party before Naidu left for Delhi.
 
 Before leaving for Delhi, Naidu also wrote a letter to Prime Minister   in which he said the Dalits of AP should be protected and the Centre should file a revision petition before the Supreme Court urging it to reconsider its decision on diluting the provisions of the SC/ST Atrocities (Prevention) Act. “In doing so, Naidu has dropped a broad hint that he is with the opposition on the fight for Dalits,” said party sources.
 
