KOCHI: In a move which can enhance the reliability of KSEB, the board is mooting a project to ensure uninterrupted power supply across the state by 2022. The   is planning to achieve this goal by providing standby 11 kV lines which will be used if technical snags develop in a particular 11kV feeder line. 

 The usage of all the 11kV distribution lines in a substation limit would be maintained up to 50% of its capacity. 
 
 "So, if an 11kV line of a particular substation fails, power can be distributed using 11kV lines from feeders in the neighbouring substation. The 11kV lines in a particular area should intersect neighbouring stations," an official with KSEB said. 
 
 "KSEB had issued an order constituting project management units (PMUs) at circle level. The PMC in each circle should prepare a detailed project report (DPR) for implementing the project by February 20, 2018. The DPRs submitted by PMUs would be compiled at state-level. Then, it would be submitted to the state government and Kerala state electricity regulatory commission," he said. 
 
 The major beneficiary would be industry sector. Once the project is through, there won't be even the momentary interruption. "Momentary interruption would not affect domestic consumers. But, industries would be affected due to even a momentary glitch," said the official.
 
 There are around 65,000 km of 11kV lines across the state. For introducing new system, at least 35,000 to 40,000 km additional 11kV lines will have to be drawn. "Aerial Bunched Cables (ABC), covered conductors and underground cables will have to be drawn for the purpose," the official said.
 
 Each PMU will have to complete the works on DPR before April. "Surveys using GPS system have been conducted for identifying the exact length of 11kV lines in each electrical section. Moreover, the officials in PMUs should find the most failure prone segments of high tension grid and basic weakness which lead to the failure. They should also identify works to be done for improving reliability of the system," a source said.
 
 Though the estimate for the project is yet to be worked out, a rough estimate suggests that the project cost will be at least Rs 4,000 crore. "Besides ensuring uninterrupted supply, the new system would cut down transmission loss and increase safety as well. Another objective of the project is to integrate renewable modes of energy with KSEB network," sources said.
 
 There would be a total of 96 officials in PMUs based at 25 KSEB circles in the state. They would be imparted special training periodically. The funds would be from   (KIIFB),   and other centrally sponsored schemes.
 
 The KSEB is already implementing Rs 10,000-crore project '  to streamline transmission grids and ensure smooth supply of power from power grids from other states. "The project to augment 11kV network has been designed to complement the Transmission Highway project," officials said.
 
 
