MUMBAI: Around 30 customers of the Vasai branch of HDFC Bank allegedly fell victim to debit card cloning between Wednesday night and Thursday noon when Rs 10 lakh was fraudulently withdrawn in Haryana and Delhi.

 The bank customers —who received SMS alerts about the withdrawals on their registered mobile numbers-—began to make a beeline for the branch near the gurudwara in Vasai (West) and then Manickpur police station from Wednesday night, on realizing that their cards had been cloned and misused. Manickpur police have registered a case against unknown people.
 
  
 In all the cases, the victims were in possession of their cards and had withdrawn cash from ATMs in the past few days. The fraudulent withdrawals ranged from Rs 10,000 to Rs 1 lakh. In some cases, the card details were misused multiple times.
 
 Suresh Pathak lost Rs 50,000 in five transactions of Rs 10,000 each at 6.35am. Sandeep Patil lost Rs 14,500 in two transactions around 10am. A woman customer lost Rs 11,400 when her card was used twice, first to withdraw Rs 10,000 and within seconds Rs 1,400. She got SMS alerts for both transactions. She had recently withdrawn cash from another bank ATM. Nilesh Sawant received an SMS alert at 10.45pm. He had last used his card to withdraw Rs 12,000 from an ATM on Monday. Sawant said he had not used his card for any online shopping nor swiped it at a restaurant. Donald Gonsalves received an SMS alert of Rs 1 lakh withdrawal from an ATM at Manesar in Gurgaon, Haryana.
 
 A case has been registered for cheating under both Indian Penal Code Section 420 and Information Technology Act’s Section 66(A) (D), said inspector Anil Patil.
 
 Patil said SMS alerts show that transactions had been carried out at ATMs in   and Manesar in Haryana and   in New Delhi. Police have sought CCTV footage from ATM centres where the withdrawals were done.
 
 The mass card cloning led to unrest among bank account holders in Vasai-Virar region. Several took to social media asking people not to use ATMs in the region.
 
 Banks were flooded with customer calls on Thursday morning.
 
 
