GURUGRAM: The enforcement wing of department of town and country planning (DTCP) carried out a sealing drive at   residential society in Sector 49 on   road, as part of its drive to crack down on commercial activities in residential areas. During the drive, several  , offices and other commercial establishments were sealed.

 “Following a complaint on the CM Window, a sealing drive was carried out in the residential plotted colony Uppal Southend,” said district town planner (enforcement) Rajendra T Sharma. He added the department had earlier issued showcause notices to owners of houses, who were running guest houses and other commercial activities.
 
 Assistant town planner (ATP) Amit Madholia said two months ago, the department had issued notices to nearly two dozen houses for violating rules, and directed them to restore the buildings strictly in accordance with approved building plans. “After receiving the notices, most of the house owners stopped commercial activities. Action was taken against those who hadn’t complied with the notice,” said Madholia.
 
 Harbansh Arora, secretary of the  , said commercial activities in the residential society had created nuisance and compromised the safety of residents, as a large number of non-residents would regularly visit the colony. “Movement of anti-social elements in the colony had increased due to these commercial activities. Eventually, the RWA filed a complaint against such activities,” said Arora.
 
 ATP Narendra Kumar said a sealing drive was carried out in the same colony in October 2016, and that they will repeat such drives if residents are again found to use their properties for commercial use. 
 
 DTCP swung into action after an increase in the number of residents’ complaints on the CM Window. “Large residential areas are not designed for commercial activities. Whenever any residential property is used for commercial purposes, it increases movement of people and vehicles in that area,” said an official.
 
 According to rules, only 20% of built-up area or 50sqm area of residential plots (whichever is more), can be used for commercial purposes, but only to set up consultancy offices, not shops or other commercial fronts.
 
 
