CHANDIGARH: The   on Wednesday disposed of the petition filed against   president Amit Shah’s   after the Union government assured the court that the event was being organised by a political party and not a demonstration that could create law and order problem.

 Additional solicitor general of India Satya Pal Jain submitted that the petition had been filed to gain publicity as the proposed rally in Jind on Thursday was a routine by a political party. Jain further argued that it was not any protest that could create lawlessness and the Centre was ready to extend support to the state, if required.
 
 Jain also added that the Jind rally was also not in contravention of any rule or regulations of the Election Commission of India as the poll code of conduct was not in force at present.
 
 Haryana advocate general B R Mahajan said the rally had been allowed after all permissions and the state authorities had made necessary arrangements to avoid any kind of inconvenience to the general public.
 
 Hearing that, a division bench headed by Justice A K Mittal disposed of the matter. The matter had reached before the HC in the wake of a petition filed by a local NGO Arrive Safe Society through its president Harman Singh Sidhu.
 
 The petitioner had apprehended lawlessness in the state of Haryana during national BJP president, Amit Shah’s ‘Yuva Hunkar Rally’ on motorcycles in Jind district.
 
 The petitioner had alleged that presence of one lakh motorbikes in city during Shah’s visit may witness hooliganism of party workers and create chaos and traffic jams in state/national highways in the state adversely affecting the travel time of ambulances and other emergency vehicles.
 
 The petitioner had sought directions to protect the life, liberty and property of the public at large in Haryana, especially the residents of Jind on February 15, when the BJP has planned to organize a Yuva Hunkar Rally with around one lakh bikes.
 
 It was also argued that BJP chief was supposed to kick off party’s 2019   campaign through the rally, which was in violation of guidelines issued by the Election Commission of India. 
 
 
