CHENNAI: Demand to initiate disciplinary action against   party spokeswoman on   has been growing within the   unit of the party, after she said that the state unit will get a new president in the next two months. TNCC president S Thirunavukkarasar himself brushed aside her statements as not 'worthy enough' to warrant a comment, when reporters sought his views here on Wednesday. 

 In an interview to TOI, which appeared on Monday, Khushbu had not only said that the "TNCC president (S Thirunavukkarasar) will be replaced in two months", but also pointed out that the "Tamil Nadu unit of the party at present is not as active as the Congress units in other states".
 
 Khushbu's statements came up at a meeting of the Kancheepuram Central district party workers' meeting held on Tuesday evening at Maraimalainagar near Chennai, with several speakers demanding that TNCC president S Thirunavukkarasar take disciplinary action against her. "Khushbu is just one among the party's several party respresentatives and what authority does she have to comment on decisions that are taken only by the party high command," asked one leader, while urging for action against her.
 
 "I have waged political battles even against former chief minister J Jayalalithaa. We need not even bother about her or her statements," Thirunavukkarasar had reportedly told the party workers at the meeting.
 
 On Wednesday, a senior Congress leader, D Yasodha, a former MLA from Sriperumbudur assembly segment, admonished Khusbhu for not learning and mending her ways on how not to comment on leadership issues. While in DMK, when everyone in that party knew it will be M K Stalin who will succeed M Karunanidhi as party president, she made an unwarranted comment and had to hastily quit that party, said Yasodha. "Now in Congress, one wonders who gave her authority to speak about an issue that only the party high command decides and especially when there is Mukul Wasnik, the AICC in-charge of Tamil Nadu," Yasodha said in a statement.
 
 
