KANYAKUMARI: Vivekananda Kendra here will oppose the proposed BJP-backed International Container Transhipment Terminal (ICTT) at Kanyakumari if the Rs 19,884 crore project affects the famed  . 

 Kendra vice-president A Balakrishnan told TOI that they had not got details of the port. “But we came to know about the proposed port through newspapers and INTACH (Indian National Trust for Art and  ) wrote to us about it two days ago,” he said. INTACH Nagercoil convener R S Lal Mohan claimed that in addition to Vivekananda memorial and Thiruvalluvar statue, the proposed ICTT would also harm other religious-cum-heritage structures like Bhagavathy Amman temple, Adi Sankaracharya temple, Guhan Atheeswarar Sivan temple and Suchindram temple.
 
 He said that the ICTT with a capacity of 18,000 TEU would need breakwater barriers for five kilometres. “Some of the above said heritage structures are within two kms to five kms from the port. The 400-metre-wide approach channel to the port will be 20 metres deep. This will bring the port very close to the Vivekananda Rock Memorial,” he said.
 
 Pointing to the detailed project report (DPR) for ICTT published by Tuticorin VOC Port Trust, the nodal agency, he said that the place where the port would be located was rocky (page 69 of DPR). The landscape may be changed into an artificial industrial port facility (page 73) and some port facilities may give unpleasant impression to people, he said.
 
 The ICTT that was first proposed to be set up at Enayam was dropped due to strong opposition from the fishing hamlets and people of nearby inland areas. But the Kanyakumari port has been facing opposition over its feared impact on the environment, livelihood of fishermen and heritage structure at Kanyakumari that attract lakhs of visitors every year. Vivekananda Rock Memorial that stands tall on a big rock is one that tourists from across India and abroad don’t miss during their visit to the southernmost tip of India.
 
 Balakrishnan said that they tried to take up the issue with Union Minister of State for Shipping and Finance (and Kanyakumari MP who has been pressing for the project)  . “But he was unavailable as he had gone to Delhi for the budget. We will hold a managing committee meeting and write to the government on the need for a detailed study of the possible impact of the port on the heritage structures,” he said. However, he added that the Kendra did not have any objection if the study revealed that the port would not have any impact on the landscape of Kanyakumari beach and heritage structures here. “Else we will object to it and join the protests (against establishment of the port),” he concluded.
 
 Lal Mohan who has authored books on the heritage of Kanyakumari district said INTACH (Nagercoil) had written to its national chairman on the issue and was also taking it up with the heads of political parties and religious bodies.
 
 
