NEW DELHI: Days after a fire at a   in Bawana left 17 labourers dead, a   engulfed a factory near   on Friday. All   of the building, which   on Thursday night, were gutted and a   was   in the blaze. 

 The fire department had to deploy 30 fire tenders to control the blaze. Officials blame rampant illegal constructions and utter disregard for safety norms for turning small fires into devastating ones. In the past too, several fire incidents have been reported in the area, which has 288 factories.
 
 Illegal constructions for more storage space hamper fire-fighting operations in such places, said sources. Fire officials admit that these lead to delay in dousing fire as firemen have to push their way through the smoke to reach the building. 
 
 At the Udyog Nagar industrial unit, firemen also had to battle burning rubber stocks kept at the exit and entry points. On Thursday night, the fire-fighters took more than an hour to access the first floor of the burning factory after scaling the walls from the rear side. They had to break open the windows to enter the building. A number of goods vehicles in the lanes also blocked the passage of the fire engines. 
 
 At least two major fires are reported from the industrial zones of the city every year. Firemen say most units don’t have the required fire-fighting equipments. The factory owners use the maximum space available in the factories to dump the raw material to save money in hiring store houses constructed in the area.
 
 “We have been asking all industrial units to maintain basic fire safety norms so that a blaze can be prevented from spreading,” said V S Chinkara, a member of the manufacturers’ association in Udyog Nagar.
 
 Firemen point out that though the industrial zone has its own building statutes, most factory owners flout the norms but get away due to lack of monitoring. Even workers entering or exiting a building have to climb over stocks to reach their workstations. 
 
 These industrial units also manage to survive despite flouting fire safety norms by misusing a clause that says offices with less than 50 seats don’t need fire-safety clearance. 
 
 
