NOIDA: Wrong-side driving is not an uncommon sight on Noida’s roads. The number of   issued for the violation, however, paints a different picture.

 Sample this: Of the 14 lakh-odd challans issued in 2015 for all kinds of traffic violations, only 4.03% of them were for driving on the wrong lane. The rate improved somewhat in 2016 — to 6.68% — but dipped again to 4.9% the year later. As of March this year, 23% of the challans issued have been for wrong-side driving, but the cops aren’t sure if they can keep up the rate.
 
 
  
 
 Traffic police officers cited lack of manpower for not being able to issue enough challans for wrong-side driving. The officers said the lack of personnel hampered their attempts to deploy personnel at every junction and u-turns of the city where wrong-side driving is rampant. But officers insisted drivers should develop a habit to follow the rules when they are out on roads.
 
 The traffic police had recently sought around 250-300 constables for managing the vehicles on the road, along with 28 sub-inspectors and five traffic inspectors (TIs) from DGP OP Singh when he was on a visit to Noida for the launch of the e-challan system. Though the demand for traffic inspectors has been approved, along with an additional allotment of five more traffic inspectors, some sources pointed out that the junior level workforce such as constables, who are mostly deployed on the roads, needed to be strengthened.
 
 The   has 169 constables with nearly 90 others aiding the force as home guards or marshals.
 
 This lack of staff has come in the way of the traffic cops trying to experiment with technology such as issuing e-challans and installing cameras at strategic points that can detect traffic signal violation. “It is the constables who man the streets and check for violations. Repeated offenders avoid stretches where cameras are installed,” an official pointed out.
 
 This year, as many as 1,315 people have been issued challans for driving on the wrong side. This is 23% of the total 5,481 challans that have been issued for all traffic violations till March this year. The officials, however, were sceptical if the rate can be still maintained.
 
 “The traffic inspectors were taken with an intention to help issue more challans for violations. But what can a traffic inspector do without a team? We are not sure if the demand for lower-level staff is going to be approved by the headquarters or not,” said a senior officer.
 
 SP (traffic) Anil Jha said his department was hopeful that the demand would be met. He, however, suggested that people driving on the road should develop a habit to follow rules. “Even well-informed people are indulging in this practice,” he said.
 
 
