GHAZIABAD: Two   on the   on Monday after a   fell to its right on being hit by a bus that had lost control and ploughed through several vehicles at a traffic intersection. The accident at the Ghukna Mod traffic signal left around half-a-dozen persons injured. It occured around 8.30am. 

 Ten vehicles, including the bus and the mini-truck, four motorcycles and four cars, were damaged in the crash. The bikers who were   have been identified as Devinder Kumar (39), the owner of a machinery spare parts firm in Muradnagar, and Naresh (40), who worked in a private company in Sahibabad.
 
 According to eyewitnesses, the truck and the bikers were taking a right turn from the traffic signal on Meerut Road towards the stretch leading to the Old Bus Stand when the accident happened.
 
 “The bus was coming from the direction of Modingar and headed towards GT Road. A number of vehicles were waiting at the traffic signal ahead. The   did not apply the brakes on time, and it rammed into several vehicles, which in turn crashed into the left side of the mini-truck. The truck, which was loaded with empty steel cans, fell over to its right after being hit. The two bikers who were driving along the right side of the truck were crushed under its weight,” said the local police outpost in charge, Jagmendra Kashyap.
 
 Two bikers were among the injured. One of them was Amit Saini (30), an electrician with a private firm in Delhi.
 
  “I was waiting at the traffic signal to drive towards GT Road, which is my daily route to Delhi. There were successive thuds of vehicles colliding against one another from behind. I skidded forward after a bike rammed into my motorcycle from behind. A couple of bystanders began shooting videos immediately. A police vehicle took me to a private hospital in Lohia Nagar, where doctors detected a fracture in one of my legs,” Saini told TOI.
 
 The other injured biker, Ram Kumar, has been admitted to MMG Hospital, where his condition was stated to be stable. The police said they had been unable to trace another person who was injured as he did not inform them about the hospital he went for treatment. 
 
 Three more persons suffered minor injuries, but they did not require medical treatment, the police said.
 
 The bus driver fled the spot, leaving his vehicle behind. It has been seized by the police. A traffic jam ensued on the Meerut Road after the accident, which was cleared with the help of police and civil defence volunteers. 
 
 A crane was called to lift the truck from the spot. No police complaint had been registered in the matter at the time of filing this report. 
 
 “Autopsies have been conducted on the bodies and an FIR will be registered soon. We are trying to ascertain the identity of the bus owner. An inquiry has revealed that the bus was a chartered vehicle plying from Modinagar to Delhi. None of its passengers were injured,” said Vinod Pandey, the SHO of Sihani Gate police station.
 
 
