On most days, getting to   from Mumbai airport may cost you less than flying to Kochi, but on Wednesday, a flyer, Shojo George, was charged Rs 4,000 for a 10km cab ride to get to his home in the eastern suburbs. Mumbai-Kochi airfares start at Rs 3,000.

 George boarded a SpiceJet flight from Kochi at 11.30am and landed in Mumbai at 2pm, only to spend the next four hours inside arrival terminal 1B as there was no transport available. “Finally, a private transport company quoted Rs 4,000,” said George. The transport company has issued a bill (see graphic).
 
 Thanks to the bandh, those who arrived in Mumbai on flights that landed between noon and 6pm had to pay through their nose to get a cab or auto.
 
 The bandh also led to cancellation of 31 flights—17 departures and 16 arrivals. Several flights were delayed by 20-30 minutes.
 
 Mumbai Airport Pvt Ltd (MIAL) had activated its contingency plan in the morning itself. Most of the airlines too had waived cancellation and rebooking fees. None of the airlines gave an indication on how many flyers missed their flights.
 
 “While the flight operations were smooth, MIAL had arranged for BEST bus services from terminal 1 and 2 to nearby stations for flyers,” said a spokesperson. But as the unrest escalated, crew members of some airlines reported late and a few could not make it, leading to cancellations, said the official.
 
 Hundreds of passengers who arrived on flights post-noon had to stay put inside the terminal building as the state-wide bandh took cabs, autos and buses off the roads. “As passengers opted to stay inside the airport terminal buildings, we arranged for free refreshments,” said the MIAL spokesperson.
 
 “Passengers were seated on the conveyor belts, some were on the floor, others on luggage trolleys,’’ said George. The “silent airport” where no announcements are made through passenger terminals was rather a noisy place with bawling babies and angsty passengers.
 
 Around 5pm, when the bandh was called off, passengers started pouring out of the terminal to join long queues for cabs and autos, only to learn about the inflated fares. There were also some like Madhavi Dhruv who had connecting flights ahead. Dhruv, a GoAir passenger from Ranchi, landed at 6.10pm only to find that she might not be able to reach   terminal 2 on time for the 9.15pm Etihad flight to New York via  .
 
 The only solace was a food stall outside the arrival gate, which slashed prices because of the bandh. “The management brought down the prices in the morning,” said the vendor. Chicken tikka sandwich that sells for Rs 105 was down to Rs 90, two samosas for Rs 50, instead of one for Rs 30. “We don’t keep khichdi, but today we did.”
 
