BHUBANESWAR:   is planning to have a centre for northeast studies to provide opportunities to students to explore and appreciate the diversity and potential of the northeastern states. 

 Dinabandhu Sahoo, director of the   and   (IBSD), under the Centre's department of biotechnology, said this in the university, in the presence of Manipur education minister Thokchom Radheshyam Singh and Utkal vice-chancellor Soumendra Mohan Patnaik.
 
 Sahoo said the proposed centre would be established as the IBSD-Utkal University Centre for North East Studies. "It will be a collaboration between the two institutes. The IBSD is a central institute and has its headquarters in Imphal. It will help the university start the centre here. We have already opened two such centres in Delhi. Students from the northeast can come to the university to enrol themselves for higher studies here," he added.
 
 The main purpose of the centre would be to create research-based understanding of the ethos, challenges and opportunities in the northeastern states. "It will nurture, strengthen, celebrate and leverage the immense talent of the students of the region by providing them a forum for expression and innovation," said the director. "If the vice-chancellor agrees to our proposal, we can even start the centre from next month. We want to start this project before the beginning of the new financial year," said Sahoo.
 
 Patnaik said his university was interested in the proposal and would collaborate with the IBSD to make it a reality. The centre will give an opportunity to students of Odisha and the northeast to know each other better," he added.
 
 "We will begin with biotechnology, biology and sociology. Later, we will increase the number of courses offered by the centre. We have also planned to send 10 research scholars or students to stay with 10 families in Manipur to know their culture and tradition. We will invite an equal number of students from there to stay in Odisha. In this way, we will facilitate cultural exchange. We will also invite students from the northeast to pursue higher studies in our university," said the vice-chancellor. 
 
 The minister interacted with students here said he would try to facilitate collaboration between different institutes of his state and Utkal University.
 
 
