GURUGRAM: The annual assessment test of students from Class I to VIII, for the session 2017-2018, conducted by State Educational Research and Training Council (SCERT) for the education department in March, is out. Among districts, Mahendergarh has topped with 60% students getting more than 50% in their examination, but in Gurugram, only 51% students got more than 50%. The performance in the assessment is not very different from the dismal show in the Class X board exams, in which only 47% passed in Gurugram.

 Palwal and Fatehabad have come last in the assessment, with only 37% students passing. The survey was carried out among 16,31,896 students of the state.
 
 In primary schools, performance of students in Hindi has fallen drastically in Class III. It’s less than 50% in Class IV. However, 48% students crossed the 50% benchmark in Class V. Performance of students in mathematics also shows a fall between Class II to Class V, with scores of Class V students close to the 50% benchmark. 
 
 In environmental studies ( ), students of Class III hit the benchmark, with students in classes IV and V showing a gradualimprovement. More than 50% students scored above 50% marks. 
 
 “Schools need to change pedagogy for students to improve in studies. Many students don’t understand subjects the way it is taught in class by the teachers, which means, teachers have to have different approaches for different students, so that they can perform better in the exams,” said Prem Lata Yadav,   primary education officer.
 
 The survey shows that students’ performance in   and   declined in senior classes.
 
 In middle schools, performance of students in Hindi was poor in classes VI and VII, though it showed improvement in Class VIII. But in English, mathematics and social studies, performance is poor across all three classes. Their performance is also uniformly poor in science, though Class VIII students just crossed the 50% benchmark. “Students can perform better only when the number of teachers in the district increases. Currently, there is a shortage of 16,471 teachers in schools in the state,” said Satyanarayan Yadav, secretary of Haryana School Teacher’s Association (HSTA).
 
 Across the state, students are doing well in Hindi in Class VIII in all districts barring Palwal. They fare poorly in mathematics in classes VI, VII and VIII across the state. Muni Ram, principal, Govt Senior Secondary School (GSSS), Kadipur, said, “We have a shortage of teachers in this school. There are 833 students in classes VI-VIII in my school, but only nine teachers. And we don’t have a designated teacher for mathematics.”
 
 In EVS, students of classes IV and V performed well in all districts except Palwal. In Science, students of classes VI and VII have performed poorly across districts. Their performance shows improvement in Class VIII, but in only half the districts, namely Bhiwani, Faridabad, Gurugram, Hisar, Jhajjar, Mahendergarh, Mewat, Panipat, Rewari, Rohtak and Sonipat. In the other 11 districts, it is poor. 
 
 Teachers blamed poor results to families of students migrating frequently in search of employment. 
 
 “Kids who come from families that migrate frequently, see their academics suffer. Without stability, their study patterns get affected,” said Kanwar Sain Jain, principal, GSSS, Joniawas.
 
 
