LUCKNOW: A team of sleuths from   is camping in Aizawl, Mizoram, to trace a native of   identified as Uwais. After completing BCom from Bareli, Uwais moved to Delhi and stayed in Laxminagar to become a chartered accountant. 

 Fluent in English, Uwais came in contact with Albert from Mizoram who has contacts among rebel groups active in North East and  . Working on the   arms haul case that was cracked on Tuesday with arrest of six people, including a former  , special task force of UP Police found that Uwais had been staying in Aizawl for months.
 
 The interrogation report prepared by STF reveals that Uwais and Albert acted as the key links between the arms trade that extended between Aizawl and Delhi via Uttar Pradesh.
 
 Having arrested Thakur Rakesh Singh, a former   MLA from Aligarh, STF managed to unearth the racket on Tuesday and recovered Brazilian and Czechoslovakian weapons which are used widely by military groups around the world. While Rakesh was in Aligarh, his close aide Nagendra Singh had gone to Aizawl along with four Sambhal residents identified as Ishan Chaudhary alias Ufaq, Mohd Anees alias Shibli, Subur Anwar and Wasim Ahmed.
 
 SSP STF Abhishek Singh, who led the team, said that it was found after questioning the gunrunners that Uwais was Ishan's brother.
 
 "Uwais is yet to be traced and hence a team is camping in Mizoram. Only he can tell us whereabouts of Albert as nobody else knows him directly. Uwais is a smart 24-year-old youth who strayed from normal life to make quick money. Wasim had moved to Jamianagar, Delhi from Sambhal decades ago. The racket apparently extends from Mizoram up to Delhi and Uwais and Wasim may have been misguided. Hence we are taking help of anti-terrorist squad and central intelligence agencies in further probes," said Singh.
 
 STF will write to original manufacturers of the weapons in Brazil, Europe and USA to find out who bought the weapons from them. "The weapons have unique codes through which its buyer can be tracked. We will take help of National Central Bureau (Interpol) to get the information," added Singh.
 
 
