BHAGALPUR: Chief minister   has said that his government is committed to increasing the income of farmers as well as their family members.

 Stating this at a public meeting after inaugurating the Bateshwar Ganga Pump Nahar Pariyojana (BGPNP) canal at Kahalgaon with great fanfare on Thursday, the chief minister 
 
 said that several measures have been taken by his government to control damages caused by floods. He said more such measures were also in the offing.
 
 “The need of the hour is to make an integrated approach for flood control and irrigation at arid zones by channelizing overflowing rivers,” he said adding that the BGPNP will be able to irrigate vast areas and farmers of the region would be immensely benefitted. 
 
 Approved in 1977, the foundation for the project was laid by the then Kahalgaon Congress MLA Sadanand Singh in 1980. Water started flowing in the canal soon after the CM clicked the electronic device to launch the project.
 
 Although the ambitious project was scheduled to be inaugurated in September 2017, a breach in the canal resulted in its delay and a probe was ordered. The breach had occurred when engineers of the water resources department were conducting a trial run of the BGPNP. The breach had resulted in the inundation of several areas including the CISF Colony, Kahalgaon Super Thermal Power Project township.
 
 Aimed at providing irrigation facility to 27,603 hectares of farm land in Bihar and Jharkhand, the project was originally estimated to cost Rs 13.88 crore. The project cost, however, escalated to Rs 828 crore at the time of its completion.
 
 Claiming that there has been a remarkable improvement in power supply in the state during his tenure, Nitish referred to the successful implementation of prohibition laws in the states besides implementation of the Lok Shikayat Nivaran Adhikar Adhiniyam (LSNAA) for the masses. 
 
 Nitish also said his government would make sincere efforts to acquire land for the proposed Central University near the ancient Vikramshila Mahavihara excavation site. 
 
 The Kahalgaon MLA Sadanand Singh thanked the CM on completion of the project.
 
 The CM was accompanied by deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, water resources minister Rajiv Ranjan Singh, Congress legislature party (CLP) leader and Kahalgaon MLA Sadanand Singh among others.
 
 
