TRICHY: An average hike of Rs 1,300-1,400 has come into effect for all undergraduate and postgraduate programmes offered by model and constituent colleges under   from this year. This is unlike in the previous years when the hike used to be nominal. 

 The hike has come as a setback for candidates who are unable to secure seats in government arts colleges and plan to join constituent colleges situated in rural areas. A majority of them may not be able to afford the revised fee this year. All the ten colleges under Bharathidasan University are situated in remote places in the central districts. Constituent colleges were a godsend for the rural folk as they made higher education affordable for them, but not any more. Already, academicians have been questioning the tuition fee levied from students in constituent colleges unlike in the government colleges. 
 
 The fee hike is most likely to hit admissions this year, especially to post graduate courses. “Till a couple of year ago, students in MSc Computer Science were paying a semester fee of Rs 4,000 per semester. While it was much cheaper than the arts and science colleges in the urban areas, it has now shot up to Rs 10,000 per semester,” said a faculty member. 
 
 Though the hike is usually not applicable for candidates who joined the previous years, they were also levied revised fee last year. Stating that alumni fee is the only component that has been introduced this year, vice-chancellor P   said that the rest of the components were there even last year but were not part of the fee structure. Speaking to TOI, he said that they had not hiked the tuition fee but could not abstain from collecting other fees to meet the operational cost.
 
 He said that unlike in government colleges that were fully funded by the state government — be it in terms of teacher’s salary or infrastructure — it was the university as an autonomous institutions that had to bear the operational cost. While three of the model colleges get funding of the university grants commission ( ), constituent colleges get partial funding for only five years from its inception. 
 
 He said that since all the seven constituent college were now over seven years old, the university had to bear all the cost. Unable to bear the additional burden, the university was now shifting it to the students. “If the university is unable to bear the expense, what is preventing it from approaching the government for funds,” asked former president, association of university teachers (AUT) K Pandiyan. “It cannot pass on the burden to the students from rural areas, many of whom are first generation college goers,” he said. 
 
 
