KOLKATA: It is not written in black and white but insiders feel that the proposed merger of three public sector general insurance companies may lead to shift of another iconic institution’s headquarters from the City of Joy. The century-old National Insurance Company ( ) HQ on   is likely to be a thing of the past.

 In his Budget speech, Union finance minister Arun Jaitley has proposed the merger of NIC, Oriental Insurance Company ( ) and   (UIA) into a single insurance behemoth and enlist it on bourses subsequently.
 
 Industry insiders feel that the merger implies that a new company will be formed and its headquarters, most likely, would not be in Kolkata. However, a section of insurance industry feels that Kolkata can still be the HQ of the unified outfit. If the HQ shifts from the city then that could well be a setback for the proposed financial hub of the state government in New Town. As many as 22 companies have already bought plots in the financial hub that includes NIC as well.
 
 NIC is India’s oldest general insurance company. It was incorporated in Kolkata on December 5, 1906 in order to fulfil the nationalist aspiration for Swaraj. After 66 years, during nationalisation, it was merged with 21 foreign and 11 Indian companies to form National Insurance Company Ltd, one of the four subsidiaries of the governmentowned General Insurance Corporation ( ) of India.
 
 Kamal Parekh, former president of Calcutta Stock Exchange, was worried that a merger means shifting of NIC though it would be good for the company’s financial health. Bijay Murmuria, director of Sumedha Fiscal Services, was optimistic that the HQ of the unified company can be in Kolkata. “NIC and United India are of same size and Oriental is much smaller in size. Now, between NIC and United India, the former is the oldest and has a rich history. So, I am optimistic,” he said. Rahul Agarwal, director of Optima Insurance Broking, and  , head of research of AUM Capital, feel it’s premature to discuss on the HQ shift.
 
