TRICHY: The ministry of skill development and entrepreneurship has developed a programme of action to address the key challenges of improving quality of training, achieving scale and making skill acquisition inspirational for the youth to suit emerging job requirements. This was stated by the secretary in the ministry, K P Krishnan, here on Saturday night while speaking at the Indian Institute of Management Tiruchirapalli (IIM-T), where he was the chief guest at the sixth convocation event. 

 Delivering the convocation address, Krishnan stressed that skills for employability had been emerging as a priority globally. “New kinds of technologies are creating new job opportunities and new ways of working,” he said. Speaking about India’s skill challenges, he delved into the skill gap report brought out in 2012 and updated in 2016. He stated that on the demand side India would require a little over 10 crore incremental human resources across 24 growth sectors. “This (the report) is a projection for a decade (2012 to 2022). The report points to a very large demand for skilled workers in India. The obvious fact is that quality and relevance of training to job requirements is an urgent priority in the country,” he said.
 
 On the supply side, he stated that 10 to 12 million young people entered work force every year without any formal training. “But our current annual training capacity in the formal vocational education system is only about 2.5 million, with an annual throughput of about 1.5 million,” Krishnan said. The senior official added that 48% of children in India, who dropped out at secondary school level, ended up in the workforce. “This particular section of population needs proper skill training and marketable and foundational life skills,” he said. 
 
 CavinKare chairman and managing director  , who was also the guest of honour, urged students to acquire emotional quotient (EQ), stating that it was the most important attribute for success. “If intelligence quotient (IQ) was the only required skill, I wouldn’t have grown up,” he said and added that EQ was all about managing emotions, managing self and others efficiently. He also said that “Students should count their success in terms of the number of people they have impacted or helped to grow in life.”
 
 During the event, IIM-T director   presented the institute report while chairman, board of governors,  , awarded the diplomas to a graduate from the Fellow Programme in Management, 176 graduates of Postgraduate Programme in Management (PGP) and 18 graduates of the   in Business Management (PGPBM). 
 
 
