GURUGRAM: Huda officials are likely to face action for irregularities in allotment of alternative plots to oustees of  . 

 Oustees of Dwarka Expressway were given alternative plots by the development authority in Sector 37C and Sector 110A. At the time of preparing the layout, officials ignored mentioning the presence of high tension towers in these sectors. This led to 13 oustees — four from Kherki Daula village and nine from   — being allotted plots below the high tension towers. 
 
 When the allotees brought this to Huda’s notice, a fresh draw of lot was conducted and alternative plots were given to the affected families. All these things delayed the rehabilitation process and clearing the way for the expressway.
 
 Huda administrator  , who carried out an inspection of the Dwarka Expressway on Tuesday, was informed about the lapse and irregularity in the allotment of the alternative plots. He, however, has now sought the details of the officials responsible for the irregularities. Sources claim that the guilty might face action. 
 
 More than 568 oustees of the Dwarka Expressway project had applied for alternative plots under the final terms of settlement (FTS) of 2015, prepared under the supervision of the  .
 
 Huda had identified 232 oustees, eligible for rehabilitation, and handed over allotment letters to 148 of them in Sector 110A and Sector 37C in between May-September 2016. As per the final terms of settlement, the authority pays a compensation to the oustee and also provides him/her with an alternative plot. In this case, though the oustees received the alternative plot they are still waiting for the compensation. 
 
 When contacted, a senior Huda official said, “We have asked our head office to release Rs 13 crore which will be utilised for compensating the oustees.” 
 
 Huda recently held a meeting with Delhi government officials to take stock of the progress of the project. The 27 km-long expressway branches out from NH-8 near Ranpuri in Delhi and joins NH-8 near Kherki Daula village in Gurugram. The 18 km stretch of the e-ways comes in Gurugram while remaining portion is in Delhi. 
 
 
