NAGPUR: No so long ago, the local badminton fans would deprived of watching top shuttlers in action. There were hardly any major tournaments in the city.

 
 However, the situation has changed for the better since last season. After the successful Senior Nationals six months ago, there will be a big feast for the badminton lovers in the upcoming season as region would witness four major tournaments in July and August.
 
 Four tournaments in a span of few days once again proved that Nagpur is slowly and surely becoming a badminton hub of Maharashtra. It has never happened before and there will be a big badminton festival in the coming monsoon season in the region.
 
 The badminton extravaganza will start with the   Under-18 Championship, which will be held from July 9 to 14.
 
 The School Games Federation of India (SGFI) will conduct the week-long tournament under the auspices of Asian School Sports Federation and International School Sport Federation. After a few days gap, Wardha will host the Maharashtra Senior State Selection tournament from July 20 to 23. It will be the first major tourney in Wardha.
 
 Soon after, city will host All India Sub-Junior (U-15 and U-17) Ranking tournament from July 23 to 29, where around thousand teenage participants from across the country are expected to compete for the top honours.
 
 The season will conclude with the Sub-Junior (U-13 and U-15) State Selection tournament which is likely to be held here at the Divisional Sports Complex, Mankapur.
 
 All these tournaments will be held under the auspices of   (MBA) and  .
 
 The president of MBA   is happy that finally Nagpur is realizing its due and the its true potential to host major tournaments after a dry last decade.
 
 “After successful hosting of Senior Nationals, badminton world has realized that, Nagpur is most suited to host major tournaments. The infrastructure without congestion and cost of bigger metros goes in favour of Nagpur. I also give credit to the emerging players of Nagpur and region. There are several shuttlers from the city who are making a mark for us in the national badminton circuit,” said Lakhani.
 
 The newly elected vice-president of   is quite hopeful of Nagpur becoming country’s major badminton centre in the future.
 
 
 
 
  Asian School Under-18 Championship at Nagpur
 
 
  Senior State Selection tournament at Wardha
 
 
  All India Sub-Junior (U-15 and U-17) Ranking tournament at Nagpur
 
 
  Sub-Junior (U-13 and U-15) State Selection tournament at Nagpur.
 
