Two girls were sitting crouched, keen in what looked like they were in needlework. They were making grow bags for saplings using palm leaves, guided by professional palm tappers from Tuticorin. The girls, K Priyadharshini, 20, and M R Woshambiga, 21, who are pursuing their masters in Tamil in the Shantalinga Adigalar Arts, Science and Tamil College, Perur, were among several youngsters who had come to a workshop on craft-making using palm leaves.

 Palm growers and people who run cottage enterprises that make or sell products made from palm leaves – such as pouches, bags and ornamental items – say there is a good demand for such products not only in the state or the country, but also overseas.
 
 Chithra Nambi, director of Swadeshi Palmyrah Industrial Training Institute, Chennai, who trains young women to make products from palm leaves, says this has been the trend for the past three to four years. "Nowadays people are interested in gifts made of palm leaves such as bouquets and ornamental products for marriages and birthdays," she said.
 
 Earlier, every month, they used to make around 100 garlands and bouquets from palm leaves, says Kumari Nambi, president of Swadeshi Movement, Chennai, an NGO promoting cottage industries. "But now we make 500 of each, which is not enough. We get requests for around 3,000 garlands and bouquets a month nowadays," he adds.
 
 Experts say several cottage firms export palm products to countries like the US, Canada and Australia. Kumari Nambi says there is a high demand for palm flour among the Sri Lankan Tamil diaspora in countries like Canada, as it is one of their staple food items.
 
 "The new-found interest in organic farming and native cattle breeds among youngsters is a reason behind the growing interest in palm products recently," says Saminathan, a banker, who quit his job and started ‘Panaiyettram’ a forum to promote palm products.
 
 Though palm trees provide such a fertile scope for cottage industries, experts and enthusiasts say the palm tree population in the state has been decreasing for the past several years. While there were around 15 crore palm trees almost 10 years ago, usually seen along the highways and tank bunds, today there are only around 5 crore palm trees in the state, they say.
 
 If products from palm trees are marketed with proper knowledge of their demand, the cottage industry scene will boom and will also pave way for the preservation and revival of palm trees, says Kumari Nambi. "The income from the popular edible products such as padhaneer and karuppatti is only 25% of the potential income that could be generated from a palm tree. There is much more that can be harvested and made into value added products," he said.
 
 To promote palm products, a course on the uses and benefits of the tree should be introduced in schools, says Chithra. Kumari Nambi adds that people should be made aware of the potential uses of palm trees, which would enable people in rural areas engage in the enterprise.
 
 He says that the business involves meagre investments. "The only investment is the raw material. The raw material could be provided to people who are interested in making value added products, for which they would be paid accordingly," Kumari Nambi says on the side-lines of World Palmyra Economic Conference held in Perur. "If tapped, it’s an industry with a great future," he adds.
 
 
