Mumbai: The government’s decision to cut its planned market borrowing amount for the current fiscal gave a boost to investor sentiment on Dalal Street on Wednesday. This took the   above the psychologically important 35k mark for the first time in its history with the benchmark closing at 35,082 — up 311 points on the day. 

 Global cues like Dow Jones’ record run in recent days and reports that the government may hike foreign ownership across all domestic banks also helped the current Indian rally, brokers and dealers said. News reports that the government is expected to cut   rates on 70-80 items in the council’s next meeting also helped the market sentiment, they added. Consider this: The sensex took just 16 sessions — that is less than a month — to rally from 34,000 to 35,000 as domestic funds net-bought stocks worth Rs 4,275 crore, while foreign funds net-infused nearly Rs 5,600 crore. Led by blue chips, investor wealth jumped by more than Rs 3.45 lakh crore in these 16 sessions with the BSE’s   now at a record high of Rs 160 lakh crore.
 
 Market players believe that a combination of factors would help the Indian rally to continue. These include the government’s seriousness to move ahead with tough economic reforms despite opposition, Indian households’ changing preference to invest in financial assets like stocks, bonds, etc, and expectations that the current global economic growth momentum would continue for a few years. 
 
 According to   MD & CEO Dhiraj Relli, the lowering of additional borrowing requirement for the current fiscal to Rs 20,000 crore from Rs 50,000 crore earlier was welcomed by market participants with the   (banking, financial services and insurance) segment leading the pack. Among the sensex stocks,  ,   and   led the gainers. Strong quarterly results from the IT majors also added to the Street’s sentiment, brokers said.
 
 The current rally, however, is raising concerns about valuations among market players who believe that prices of a large number of stock are slightly stretched. However,   MD & CEO Kamlesh Rao believes, “If the quarterly numbers from the Indian corporates show strong growth — in double digits compared to the 4-6% level for the past few quarters — then there won’t be any worries relating to valuations”. Also, Rao feels that the Budget is going to be revenue-centric and not populist, which will again support the market sentiment. “At present, interest rates and rising crude oil prices are the worries for the market,” Rao said.
 
 Going forward, sectors like defence, infrastructure, railways and core manufacturing sectors are expected to lead the rally. Also, according to Reliance Securities head of research Rakesh Tarway, “Increase in farm income to boost rural spending and affordable housing push will be positive for sectors like banks, cement and realty”.
 
 Experts said that with the NSE   currently above the 10,700 level, the next resistance is technically at around 10,900 points, that is, a rally of another 1.5% for the leading indices. 
 
 The rally in the stock market also had a positive impact on the rupee, which had sunk nearly 1% on Tuesday. The Indian currency strengthened by 15 paise to 63.89 to the dollar as market players expect stronger foreign flows will support the rupee. 
 
 In the bond market, the government’s decision to cut borrowing amount led to a rally in   with the benchmark 10-year yield closing softer at 7.22% per annum compared to its Tuesday close of 7.38%.   and yields move in opposite directions. Bond dealers, however, are not very confident that the rally in gilts could continue.
 
 
