TRICHY: The traffic congestion during peak hours along the streets running around Central bus stand is a daily affair, even on weekends and festivals. Even though the five-acre bus terminus is total mismatch for the sheer volume of government and private fleets it handles each day, at least 50-100 omni buses operate from the bus stand to cities including Bengaluru and Chennai. 

 Besides the bottlenecks, the buses are parked very close to the bright caution board which states ‘No parking zone’.
 
 Roads leading to the central bus stand particularly   road,   road, VOC   and   road, apart from the encroachments have something in common - rampant violations by omni bus operators. 
 
 The private fleets take the corporation and state highways roads for granted as they can be seen boarding and disembarking passengers by halting anywhere on the roads and thereby limiting the space for government fleets to move out of the cramped bus stand. 
 
 The omni buses parked on Royals road, very close to the caution board conveying ‘No Parking zone’, are used as shield for people to urinate on the compound walls of defence establishment. “We can see at least a dozen omni buses parked behind during the night every day. They seldom react to the honks and besides their nuisance, people arriving in vehicles to drop their kin would randomly park on the road, thus adding their contribution to the existing chaos,” said S R  , resident, Cantonment.
 
 Similarly, the agents working for the fleets who receive a commission for identifying potential passengers often end up canvassing anyone crossing the stretch, including the locals heading to their houses nearby. Road users alleged that the absence of law enforcement was the reason for omni bus operators to halt their fleets at will as traffic police themselves are not sure about the last time they penalised omni buses for parking violation. 
 
 With no designated places for the omni buses to park, agents working for the private transport agencies justified that they do not have any other space than government roads near the bus stand to halt their vehicles. Sources with traffic police department said that a separate drive will be conducted to prevent parking of vehicles at no parking zones.
 
 
