The Bard famously said, ‘All the world’s a stage, And all the men and women merely players’. It’s not only literature students who seem to be taking a cue from Shakespeare but also the celluloid actors, many of whom are known to fantasise about being part of a theatrical presentation, despite the world of films bringing them fame and moolah.
Every now and then, stars take time out from their packed shooting schedules to descend on to the stage and test themselves without the shot breaks and touch-up pauses. One of the finest instances of actors being lured by the stage was when Mohanlal and Mukesh came together for 
  way back in 2008. The duo collaborated again recently through Naga, an adaptation of Girish Karnad’s 
 , which featured Mukesh and his dancer-wife Methil Devika with a narration from Mohanlal. 
 
 Manju Warrier was equally smitten by theatre during her second coming, and when 
  was offered to her in 2016 by one of the doyens of Malayalam theatre, Kavalam Narayana Panicker, she jumped at the opportunity. On  , we discuss about the lasting appeal of theatre that pulls back many a cine actor to its fold.
 
  
  
 
 “All theatre actors can act in movies, but not all film actors can do the reverse,” says actor Mukesh who calls himself a man of theatre. Virtually born with the grease paint, the actor whose parents were veteran theatre artists, says: “I believe that to perform a play, an actor needs a different kind of intellect and I have never felt the kind of enjoyment that theatre performance provides while doing a film. In theatre, there is only one ‘Start, camera, action’, that is when the curtain raises and the cut is said when the curtain falls. Everything is live, down to the minute of movements. The camera is replaced by the audience. Even the most successful play that has been performed across 350 stages can be only dubbed successful for the 351st time only after the final curtain falls. There should be perfection on each stage!”
 
  
  
 
 There are no stereotypes in theatre, he adds. “Someone who performed as a college student can transform into a 90-year-old man the next moment. That is the beauty of theatre and there is a lot of scope for it,” he says.
 
 Kavalam Sreekumar, son of late Kavalam Narayana Panicker, has memories of watching famous actors like Mohanlal, Manju Warrier and Ashish Vidyarthi try it out on stage. His father’s play 
 had Mohanlal essaying the main character of Karnan and his other English-Hindi production 
  had Ashish Vidyarthi in it. “The contentment that an actor gets in theatre is different altogether, as it straddles the different layers of acting. In comparison to the expressions captured within a particular shot in a film, it encapsulates myriad feelings and perennial moods,” he says. Kavalam’s swansong was 
  with Manju Warrier as Shakunthala. Recollecting Manju’s portrayal, Sreekumar says, “Given that Manju had already endowed herself with dancing and acting skills, she was well aware of what is required in theatre. Achan had to just guide her with the dialogue rendition in Sanskrit and mould her into the character of Shakunthala. The fact that she was an established actor helped her to adapt herself to his concept.” 
 
  
  
 
 A recent play, 
 , directed by Arun PR, had State-award winning actress Rajisha Vijayan in a prominent role. The director says, “Rajisha who had to play a rape victim was in a state of shock for an hour, after the performance.” Lyricist and actress Gilu Joseph too got a taste of theatre through 
 . She says, “During film shoots, there are breaks and re-takes and the actor wanders between real and reel life. While doing a play, the character is forever with us through the rehearsals and the final performance. An actor gets more space to dwell on a character in a drama, enabling more involvement and stage presence. It is all about seizing the moment.” Arun adds, “Theatre is the best acting school for any actor, as it sharpens their skills. It also paves the way for a social activity and interactive session, wherein there is a give and take process.”
 
  
  
 
 National Award winning actress Surabhi, who straddles both theatre and cinema, likens the former to a refresher course. “It is a path to self-discovery and a chance to introspect. I identify my limitations and explore my capability while I perform a play and rehearse it. It is a risk, the days of rehearsal and hard work is being showcased on stage for an hour or so. We measure our strength and skills there on the podium. The thrill of successfully performing a play is beyond words, it is not there in any other medium,” she explains. Her latest performance was in 
  that was staged at Thiruvanathapuram last week.
 
 Actors Vinay Forrt and Alencier who found their way to films through theatre divulge that if given a chance to choose between the two, they would any day opt for theatre over cinema. 
 
 To bridge the gap between the two, Alencier even performs theatre during the shooting breaks at locations. He says, “Theatre is the medium that gives me utmost satisfaction as a performer. Cinema gives me financial security and stability whereas theatre gives me a hormone rush. In my opinion, theatre is organic and cinema plastic, though acting is the base in both. There are no retakes on stage and there is an exchange between the viewers and the performer.”
 
  
  
 
 Vinay Forrt says he owes everything to theatre. “If I had not fallen in love with theatre when I was at Class IV, I would have had a miserable life pursuing a white collar job. I have always felt that theatre is an actor’s medium not the director’s. Here, performance is the key. The actor communicates directly to the audience and it is daring and adventurous. The energy is exchanged vigorously between the performer and the audience. It is on the spot and fantastic. However, I do not want to underestimate the performance of an actor on screen, because any fabulous performance in any medium is to be appreciated,” he says.
 
  
  
 
 Vinay, who had spent 15 years of his life performing plays, reveals that the art form needs more support and encouragement to thrive. “India’s best theatre directors are from Kerala — Abilash Pillai and Roysten Able and then their successors like Deepan who made Spinal Cord and Khasakhinte Ithihasam. If I were able to earn a living through theatre, without depending on any other profession, I would have definitely chosen theatre over anything else,” he sums up.
 
