SANTINIKETAN/KOLKATA : The middleaged man who gave the elite SPG force a scare in   on Friday appeared to be ‘timid and simple’ during police interrogation but the cops are trying to ascertain how he managed to get hold of a pass before taking the next step.

 
 Swapan Majhi, in his mid-40s, had jumped on to the stage after the Visva-Bharati convocation to present a Tagore portrait to PM  . Prima facie, it seemed to the investigating officers that Majhi was eccentric and an attention-seeker.
 
 A casual worker at  , Majhi lives in Nabagram. Over the past several years, he has been spending his paltry wages on gifting miniature portraits of Ramakrishna Paramhansa, Sarada and Swami Vivekananda to hundreds of schoolchildren and civic officials.
 
 Locals said Majhi was an avid runner and did long-distance runs to raise awareness on issues. The last time he ran was during a ‘Safe Drive, Save Life’ campaign. On another occasion, when the civic body launched the ‘Clean and Green Chandernagore’ drive, he cycled the streets for hours with the Tricolour wrapped around him.
 
 “I think he is a bit of an attention-seeker and is always keen to do something to stand out in the crowd. We all knew he was slightly eccentric. Look at the trouble he has gotten himself into,” said civic official Biswajit Roy, who like many in Chandernagore Municipal Corporation carries in his wallet the portraits of Ramakrishna, Sarada and Vivekananda gifted by Majhi.
 
 “He has been distributing these and thin pocket books containing the teachings of Ramakrishna and Vivekananda in schools for years. Who would have imagined he would go to Santiniketan and try gifting a portrait of Gurudev to the Prime Minister? I hope the police let go of him as he is absoutely harmless,” said Roy.
 
 Officers in Birbhum who have been interrogating Majhi said he had reached   two days ago. “We have learned that he was a carpenter earlier and used to frequent Bolpur. He appears to be timid and simple,” an investigating officer said. Birbhum police superintendent   said though no incriminating evidence or motive had been found yet, police would collect some more information about Majhi before taking the next step.
 
