NAGPUR: The heritage conservation committee has confirmed damage to Zero Milestone landmark in Civil Lines. Taking serious cognizance of the damage, and violations at heritage sites, the committee has decided to appoint a vigilance force to monitor them.

 The committee headed by Tapan Chakrabarti, former Neeri director, met on Friday at Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) head office. Committee members architect Ashok Mokha and structural engineer PS Patankar submitted a report on Zero Milestone.
 
 Mokha told TOI the stone had suffered damage in a couple of places and its colour had faded. “The committee received a complaint from union leader Trisharan Sahare, alleging Metro Rail works had caused some damage to the stone. But Metro Rail works did not damage it. The damage seems to be very old and needs repair. It appears to be case of vandalism by anti-social elements. The committee has asked MahaMetro to repair, beautify and maintain the landmark and its surroundings,” he said.
 
 The stone is damaged at two places. There are also cracks on the top. It has also begun to blacken at the top. Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) was supposed to be taking care of the monument but has neglected it for decades.
 
 The committee also approved the sub-panel’s report on not including 40 omitted buildings, precincts and natural features, including Nag and Pili rivers, in heritage list. Now, the committee will submit its decision to the Supreme Court which had directed the committee to study and submit the report while hearing a petition filed by Vidarbha Heritage Society.
 
 The committee refused permission to Amar circus for operating in Kasturchand Park (KP) and approved the revised layout plan to beautify and develop the Grade-I heritage open space. NMC will execute the project.
 
 The committee approved MahaMetro’s heritage walk project proposed behind Zero Mile and asked for a presentation on it in its next meeting. It also took serious cognizance of construction done in the premises of GPO, divisional commissioner office and RBI without its permission and summoned all officials concerned in next meeting.
 
 Taking cognizance of TOI reports and complaint filed by Vivek Singh, the committee constituted a three-member committee for inspecting under construction school building at Centre Point School’s Mothers Pet Kindergarten at Seminary Hills. The school had started construction on land allotted for playground and even before getting building plan sanctioned and fire NOC.
 
 
