CHENNAI: A 37-year-old computer engineer with a Noida-based private firm surrendered before a court in Ponneri on Monday in connection with the Teachers   Board ( )   that was busted recently after the marksheets of many candidates shortlisted for the interview were found to be forged. 

  appeared before the magistrate and submitted a representation through his lawyer saying that he was surrendering before the court as police were searching for him in connection with the scam.
 
 The magistrate remanded him in prison and asked police personnel to produce him before the magistrate court in Egmore on January 12. Court officials informed sleuths from the cybercrime wing of the city police about the techie’s surrender.
 
 Police said Naser worked as a programmer for the Noida-based Datatec Methodex Private Limited at its branch office in Chennai. Police had earlier arrested a cab driver Ganesh, 28, of Anna Nagar, for collecting a bribe from one of the candidates promising to get him a job through TRB.
 
 The complainant Uma, who is the TRB member-secretary, had mentioned in her petition that Naser and Ganesh were involved in the manipulation of data.
 
 Preliminary inquiries revealed that more people in the Teachers Recruitment Board and the private firm had colluded in the scam. “A few more big fish were involved in the scam and we are probing further to gather evidence against them,” said a police officer.
 
 The marksheets of at least 230 students were forged for which the scamsters may have collected Rs 25 lakh to Rs 30 lakh from each candidate, said a police officer. Though the racket involved candidates from all the districts, a majority of them are from Salem, Erode, Cuddalore and Namakkal.
 
 The victims who failed to make the shortlist for the interview process have formed a Facebook group where they posted the details of the candidates who had qualified with forged marksheets.
 
 After the scam came to light, the TRB withdrew the results published on November 7. To ensure transparency, the TRB also released all the 1.33 lakh answer scripts of the candidates into the public domain. 
 
