Tirupur:  ,  , consumed pesticide and died in the wee hours of Tuesday within hours after their son’s death in Avinashi near Tirupur.

 S Nishanth, 22, a second-year student from Namakkal, visited Coimbatore and was returning on his bike when he rammed into a mini-truck stationed on the road near Avinashi on Monday evening. The boy as well as his relative V Kribhakaran died on the spot. 
 
 His parents, Sakthivel, 54, a farmer, and Sudha, 48, who rushed to the Avinashi government hospital where the bodies were kept, consumed fruit juice laced with pesticide unable to bear the grief and died.
 
 Police said Nishanth from Ekkattur near Kumaramangalam in Namakkal had visited Coimbatore passport office in the morning along with his relative V Kribhakaran, 21, of Pykara in Udhagamandalam. 
 
 He was returning to his house in the evening. Nishanth was driving the motorcycle. When they reached a flyover at Attayampalayam near Avinashi, the motorcycle rammed into a stationary mini–truck along the road. 
 
 “The mini–truck was carrying a paper cup making machine. The machine slipped and fell from the vehicle. The driver had stopped the vehicle and was mounting the machine with the help of a passerby,’’ said a police officer.
 
 Nishanth had apparently failed to notice a stationed vehicle atop the flyover and could not bring the bike to a halt. “Nishanth and Kribhakaran were flung from the bike in the impact. They also hit one Ganesan, from Pudukottai, an auto driver, who was helping mini–truck driver to mount the machine on the vehicle,’’ police said. 
 
 In the impact, Nishanth and Kribhakaran suffered severe injuries on their head while Ganesan suffered a leg fracture.
 
 The public rushed the three to Avinashi government hospital, but Nishanth and Kribhakaran were declared dead on arrival. Nishanth’s parents visited the hospital in the night. The parents were inconsolable since their arrival at the hospital and were constantly crying, police said. Unable to bear the grief, they mixed pesticide with fruit juice and consumed it. 
 
 “Relatives of the couple rushed them to a private hospital. But Sakthivel died around midnight and Sudha died few hours later,’’ police said.
 
 
