PANAJI: Beef traders in the state called off their fourday old statewide strike following government assurance of providing police protection to the beef being legally imported from Belagavi. Sale of fresh meat will resume on Wednesday, the beef traders body said.

 “We have received information that chief minister   has said that legally transported beef will not be stopped by anyone. Members of the animal welfare board were unlawfully stopping us, but the CM has stated that police protection will be given against them. We have therefore resolved to call off the strike and resume the beef trade,” president Quraishi Meat Traders Association of Goa Manna Bepari said.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 Bepari said that that owing to the series of raids their suppliers in Belagavi have lost confidence in them and, therefore, the amount of beef imported would be less that the usual 25 tonnes per day.
 
 “We will bring only about 10 tonnes of fresh beef per day from Belagavi. All documents will be in place, which can be duly checked by police and veterinary officers. If need be, police at the Anmod and Keri checkposts can also verify our documents,” trader   said.
 
 Stating that they have photocopies of the fit for slaughter certificate issued to the animal while it was alive by the veterinary doctor at Belagavi, besides copies of the ante-mortem and postmortem report of the animal, Shaikh said, “If the animal welfare board still has problems, they can complain to the department of animal husbandry, but they cannot be given the power to attack our vehicles and destroy the beef.”
 
 The traders also said that the animal husbandry in Bengaluru has verbally assured them of granting certificates as per Rule 96 of the Transport of Animals (Amendment) Rules 2001.
 
 Following which, transport of cattle from Belagavi to Goa for slaughter will resume.
 
 “The procedure has been initiated at the animal husbandry authorities in Bengaluru. The certificate will be granted to us by their officials at the Belagavi office. After which we will start bringing live cattle for slaughter at the Goa Meat Complex. We will also meet with minister   regarding the upgradation of the effluent treatment plant at the abattoir,” Bepari said.
 
 The traders are also seeking redemption of the losses they had to incur as a result of the four-daylong strike.
 
 “We had to incur a loss of nearly Rs 1 crore and request the government to redeem the same,” Bepari added.
 
 Goa consumes around 2,400kg of beef daily. This includes a sizeable local population as well as tourists.
 
