MUMBAI: Two   were sentenced to   on Monday for the murder of a 55-year-old woman in Bandra during a   in 2013.

 The sessions court also fined the accused, Saifraza Bhavnagari, 31, and Parvez Khan, 33, Rs 75,000 each, of which Rs 1 lakh will be paid to victim Nalini Chainani’s husband Sunil.
 
 The duo was convicted on Friday on charges of murder, robbery and house trespass. On Monday, after arguments on the quantum of sentence by defence and prosecution, the sentence was pronounced. Through an interpreter that the court had called for on Friday, the accused communicated to the court that they had not committed any offence and pleaded for leniency.
 
 Khan’s defence said the prosecution had not been able to show that the case fell in the rarest of rare of category and so the death sentence was not in question. Bhavnagari’s lawyer submitted that there was no intention to kill the victim, and at most he could be charged on the lesser charge of culpable homicide not amounting to murder. Seeking leniency, Bhavnagari’s defence submitted that both accused are differently abled and hence they have already been punished by nature.
 
 Awarding life term, the court said noted the accused were young and differently abled. It added that the case was based on circumstantial evidence and cannot be termed as rarest or rare and hence, capital punishment cannot be given.
 
 The body of Nalini Chainani was found in a pool of blood by her husband in their 10th-floor flat at Madhuban building in Bandra (West) on June 11, 2013. The accused have been in jail since their prompt arrest on June 12, 2013.
 
 The police said Bhavnagari was friends with Chainani’s son and often visited the family. Khan, a trainer at a Bandra gym, knew the family through Bhavnagari. On June 11, the duo came to meet Chainani and attacked her with a razor. They snatched the earrings, bangles and other ornaments she was wearing, and fled with the loot worth Rs 6 lakh, but left behind a phone. It gave them away and the cops arrested them the next day. The two accused had used the phone to SMS each other before committing the murder. Cops had to take the help of their families to communicate with them during investigation.
 
 The sessions court on Monday also fined the hearing- and speechimpaired accused Saifraza Bhavnagari, 31, and Parvez Khan, 33, Rs 75,000 each, of which Rs 1 lakh will be paid to victim Nalini Chainani’s husband Sunil
 
 
