NEW DELHI: Former India allrounder Mohinder Amarnath believes that the 0-2 scoreline that Virat Kohli’s team finds itself in heading into the dead rubber Test in Johannesburg on Wednesday could have been avoided with better application from their batsmen. 

 
 
 
 
 
 India lost the Cape Town and Centurion Tests despite their bowlers taking all 20 South African wickets, on account of the batsmen failing to chase targets of 208 in five sessions and 287 with a little over four sessions to play. Writing in his column for TOI, Amarnath said the batting was a big worry which does not bode well for tours to England this summer and Australia at the end of the year. 
 
 “The batsmen are not handling the   fast bowlers with the best of techniques at least where their footwork is concerned. When playing on a faster track, you need to move early, but most of the batsmen are moving the same way they would on a sub-continent track. It works at home but on faster tracks you have to move early and get into position: you should be on the move when playing against fast bowlers on faster tracks,” wrote Amarnath, who was part of the World Cup-winning team of 1983.
 
 
 
 
 
 “The dilemma for the team now, as they go into the third and final Test, is how to go about it. They have tried a lot of combinations and permutations which have unfortunately not worked out, so how they will plan for this match will be interesting.”
 
 India, as has been the case with Kohli’s captaincy since he took over full time in 2015, fielded different teams in the first two Tests in South Africa. After the Cape Town defeat, opener Shikhar Dhawan made way for KL Rahul and Wriddhiman Saha for Parthiv Patel, and the vice-captain Ajinkya Rahane has warmed the bench all tour. For the third Test starting Wednesday at the Wanderers, talk is of Rahane finally getting a game, while the back-up wicketkeeper Dinesh Karthik may also get a look-in. 
 
 Amarnath, who played 85 ODIs and 69 Test matches, expressed concern over the lack of stability in India’s selections. “There has been too much chopping and changing, and while that may work at home, it’s different when playing abroad on a different kind of soil and attack,” he wrote. “They have to do something different to compete with South Africa. Perhaps a slight change in the batting order might work. We all remember the famous India-Australia Test at Kolkata when Laxman came in at No. 3 in the second innings, and look what happened! All it took was one change and India made a dramatic turnaround in the match. It just might work again, who knows?”
 
 In Amarnath’s view, Dhawan should return as opening partner for Murali Vijay, while one of Rahul of Rohit Sharma should bat at one-down while pushing the struggling Cheteshwar Pujara down the order. 
 
 “I would like to see Shikhar Dhawan back in the side, opening with Murali, with KL Rahul or Rohit Sharma (who, despite having a rough time of it, may be kept in the XI) at No. 3, and Pujara or Rahane at Nos. 5/6. Pujara is a fantastic player and but at the moment I think the player at the crucial No. 3 spot should be scoring briskly and playing his shots from the beginning,” wrote the 67-year-old, who scored 4378 Test runs with 11 centuries. 
 
 “India have a lot of thinking to do where the combination is concerned. There are a lot of ifs and buts, and I feel they should go with just four bowlers to accommodate an extra batsman who will bolster the line-up. The batsmen have to show more aggression; something that has been totally lacking from them apart from  .”
 
 
