 (MANDI): Parashar Lake of   district of Himachal is attracting a large number of tourists this season as the area has received good snow and is easily approachable from Chandigarh.

 Recently on January 23, the mid-Himalayan ranges received more snow than upper ranges. While popular destinations of Manali, including Solang have snow in small patches, Parashar is entirely covered with a white blanket. The beautiful area is least visited by tourists due to poor marketing by the department of tourism, locals allege. However, gradually tourists have started to explore the interior areas of Mandi and have made beeline to Parashar, which is otherwise popular for its lake and temple of  .
 
 Harjit Singh, a tourist from  , said he and his family visited Manali and somebody told them about the place while coming back towards Mandi. “We decided to visit Parashar lake and were not disappointed. Not only snow but also the beauty of the area has mesmerized us. We enjoyed driving through thick forest cover, beautiful villages, temples, lake and powder snow,” he said.
 
 Until few years back Parashar was reachable only through daylong trekking from   or Katola. Many tourists still prefer trekking to the lake but most of them come by road. The lake next to Parashar Rishi temple, which has a small floating island, keeps changing its position in the waters and is centre of attraction. Situated on hilltop, this place is a popular pilgrimage as well and is frequented by people from many parts of the state. The increasing popularity of the area has encouraged villagers to open many shops, cafes and restaurants.
 
 “As it snows here, tourists make beeline. Entire stretch of road till the lake has been black-topped three months back which has doubled the rush,” said Ballu, a resident of   village near Parashar, who has opened a tourist café in the village just two weeks back. “I used to work in a hotel in Kullu. Number of tourists to Parashar is increasing every year and I thought of running business in my village. We don’t have other business opportunities. Tourism can change lives of poor people of the region,” he said.
 
 Local MLA from Drang constituency Jawahar Thakur said the area has many beautiful places which will be brought under tourism map. “Mandi-Parashar-Bajaura road is being widened phase-wise. The work is continuing. Infrastructure would be strengthened to meet requirements of tourists,” he said.
 
 Parashar lake is at an altitude of about 8,950ft. It is approachable by a link road from Mandi (48km) or   (50km) near Kullu.
 
 
