GURUGRAM; A Gurugram-based   has lodged a   complaint against some of its   who allegedly forged identification documents of other people to take loans for purchase of gadgets, including expensive phones and laptops. The company reported a loss of Rs 5.74 lakh. 

 Naveen Kumar, the authorised representative of M/S Home Credit India Finance Private Limited, approached Gurgaon police and an FIR was registered on Wednesday.
 
 In one case, a person posing as Gaurav Gupta of Delhi had applied for a loan of Rs 60,000 to buy an iPhone 6. He submitted his papers, including voter ID, pancard and proof of residential address, along with names and numbers of two referees. “On the basis of the papers which were checked by the company representative, a loan was sanctioned to him,” the complaint read. In another case, a loan of Rs 17,000 was given to a Gurgaon resident, posing as Randhir Kumar Singh, for a Samsung mobile phone. The customer had submitted his Adhaar card, along with other documents. 
 
 “After that, no EMI dues were paid by the loan account holders, except for the initial down payments, making them delinquent with the company. This was a trigger for an investigation and respective files were then scrutinised followed by visits at the customer’s addresses,” the complaint added.
 
 The customers at their addresses accepted they had tried to apply for loans but had been told that their requests had been rejected. They could not identify the signatures on the forms and alleged that their KYC documents had been misused.
 
 According to the company, some set of documents also had same photographs, while identities were different, indicating forgery.
 
 The complaint said that the fraud was suspected to have been carried out by employees. It lists 22 other cases with names of people who applied for loans and their respective sales associates. The financial transactions date from 23 September, 2013, to 11 November, 2015.
 
 Sub inspector Subash of DLF 2 police station said that an FIR has been registered under sections 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 419 (punishment for cheating by personation), 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for the purpose of cheating), 471 (using a genuine as fraud) of the IPC. 
 
 
