BHOPAL: After Patidar leader  ,   OBC leader from Gujarat Alpesh Thakor is all set to woo voters in poll-bound state. Close on the heels of OBC conventions addressed by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Alpesh has quietly started his work.

 
 On Sunday, he was in Bhopal to “promote” his organisation OSS (other backward classes, scheduled caste and scheduled tribe) Ekata Manch. Alpesh, one of the three among Hardik Patel and Jignesh Mevani , shot to limelight during Gujarat elections. On April 8 in Sagar, Hardik had announced all three of us — referring to dalit leader Jignesh and OBC leader Alpesh — were ready to work in   like we did in Gujarat. He said their fight was against fascist forces. A little more than a month later, Alpesh reached Bhopal, but did not interact with Congress leaders.
 
 Though a   from Gujarat, Alpesh said he had come to Bhopal not as a Congress leader, but as a social worker to ensure that “OSS gets justice.” Referring to the OBC sammelans addressed by the CM, Alpesh said this was BJP’s style to woo voters in election year, and the saffron party had convened caste-based sammelans in Gujarat also. “After polls, the BJP conveniently forgets weaker sections,” he told TOI. Addressing the state unit of OSS Ekata Manch, he asked members to expand the organisation footprint at grassroots level in the state before polls. He asked the state unit to appoint 11 coordinators each in every   constituency of the state. “One coordinator will cover one panchayat,” he announced.
 
 When asked whether this strategy would ultimately benefit the Congress, he said he was expanding the network of OSS, but he would obviously want it to benefit Congress. MP president of Ekata manch Lokendra Gurjar said, “More such OBC sammelans will be held in MP in coming days.”
 
 During the meeting, Alpesh said 54% OBCs in MP should be given reservation in direct recruitment and promotions as per population. “Whatever claims they make, the BJP government in MP is denying OBCs, SCs and STs their rights. There is a huge backlog and the issue should be resolved by holding a special recruitment drive for these sections.” “Let the election come,” Alpesh said “he would address election rallies.”
 
 
