MADURAI: It was a simple task of signing a witness signature for land documents but M   was running out of patience as he has been waiting for hours at the sub-registrar office on Mahal premises for the purpose. “It would have been over in five minutes any day, but here I am standing since morning”, said the man from   on the outskirts of the city exasperated. 

 Muthuramalingam’s frustration was shared by many at sub-registrar offices in the city and outskirts on Tuesday, as the online land registration inaugurated by chief minister   on Monday ran into trouble on the very first day. Heavy traffic on day one and difficulties faced by registration staff in handling everything online were blamed for the online portals not working well. The staff were given training on the task in the last few days only. 
 
 Though online registration was being carried out on trial for a while, there was also an option of working offline when the link was not up. Buyers and sellers with their documents would approach document writers, who in turn would prepare deeds which would be verified by registration officials and uploaded. These documents would be verified at head office and the buyers/sellers would be given a time slot to appear at the registration office for the final formalities. “We have not been able to upload a single document since morning”, rued Madurai district document writers association treasurer T S Naganathan. “The online system should be as hassle-free as booking a train ticket, but will it be possible when it comes to registering land documents or other crucial documents. It involves lot of complications and I am wondering how far these online transactions are going to be confidential”, wondered a city resident,  , who was at the registration office. 
 
 As the situation turned tense by afternoon, some members of the public started raising slogans against the registration officials demanding that the process be speeded up. Some of the employees expressed their anxiety as well. “How equipped are we to convert all land registration works? Do we have the hardware and network facilities where any citizen could register these documents online? ”, asked a registration office staff member who did not want to be quoted. 
 
 District registrar   said that initial hiccups were common when something moved from one system to another.
 
 
