Nagpur: Nagpur Improvement Trust ( ) has been forced to unconditionally withdraw its application challenging appointment of Justice MN Gilani to probe alleged irregularities in public utility (PU) land allotment.

 A division bench of Justices   and   on Monday also asked NIT counsels to expunge adverse remarks made against amicus curiae Anand Parchure in its application. The directives came while hearing a plea by   based on media reports in 2004 that exposed gross misuse of power and favouritism in PU lands allotment by NIT officials.
 
 Plots were allegedly distributed to close relatives of then NIT officials. The media reports were based on comptroller and auditor general’s (CAG) report, which passed several strictures on NIT’s working.
 
 While denying any irregularities, NIT had filed an application to recall justice Gilani’s appointment last month. The civic body had also charged Parchure with misleading the court when he termed additional chief secretary Navin Kumar panel’s report, as “mere eyewash”. Terming entire enquiry as a “damp squib”, he had contended that Kumar committee was government’s voluntary step to probe the NIT affairs, it was neither ordered by the court nor constituted under the Commission of Enquiries Act.
 
 Parchure objected to the remarks against him stating those were made in “extreme bad taste”.
 
 During last hearing, NIT admitted that irregularities had taken place in allotment of about 60 plots and it had launched a probe against 19 of its former and current officials. The amicus than informed HC that NIT’s move was indirect confirmation of objections raised by him. NIT earlier sought eight weeks to respond but the judges directed it to reply before March 21 and also asked it to fully cooperate with Justice Gilani who had already started his enquiry.
 
 Parchure earlier pointed out 28 issues during his arguments that NIT failed to answer. These included allotting land reserved for housing society to former guardian minister Satish Chaturvedi for a hostel, outstanding ground rent to the tune of Rs75.37 lakh from 325 PU land allottees, and loss of Rs36 lakh due to NIT's wrong investment policy. He charged NIT officials with deliberately delaying the probe and wasting 12 years.
 
 The judges observed most of the allotments probed by the panel were prior to 2000 and period of over 12 years has passed since then. “Much time and public money is being spent on this issue. We, therefore, want to find out whether in such a situation, particular percentage of salary/wage bill of NIT’s employees could be deducted and utilized for conducting this exercise. The government as also NIT chairman should explain their position,” they said.
 
 
