Coimbatore: While the number of women in fund management has gone up in the last one year, women managers still constitute only 8% of the industry and cumulatively manage assets worth Rs 3.06 lakh crore, a figure that translates to about 15% of the total assets under management for open-ended funds.

 Though women are under-represented in the fund manager ranks globally with the trend being no different in India, the situation is much worse in the country. 
 
 The total assets managed by the women managers have recorded an increase in terms of absolute numbers, as against Rs 2.32 lakh crore last year, but in terms of percentage of overall assets, this number remained in the same ballpark as last year. “These numbers are below global standards with many Asian countries showing highest representation of women in the mutual fund industry,” according to investment research firm Morningstar’s ‘Women Fund Managers Report 2018’. 
 
 Interestingly, out of the total assets managed by women fund managers, 61% of the AUM (assets under management) outperformed the benchmark/peer group average on a one-year basis, 81% over a three- year basis and 86% over a five-year timeframe. “While gender equality is a topic that’s ever prevalent, women are vastly outnumbered by men in fund-management ranks not only in absolute terms but also relative to other professional industries. The number of women in fund management in India has been gradually going up over the years, but the numbers tell us that we still have a long way to go,” Morningstar said.
 
 “We found that a total of 24 women managers manages funds either as primary/secondary managers or as heads of equity/fixed income as against 18 last year,” the report stated. “While most of the fund houses have recognised the importance of diversity and have been hiring women fund managers, however, there is a need to set the tone at the top level so that we can get to parity with men in the mutual fund Industry at a higher pace,” it said. “The number of women in fund management in India has been gradually going up over the years, but the numbers tell us that we still have a long way to go,” the study found. The Morningstar study included women fund managers, both primary and secondary, who have been managing active as well as passive open-ended funds in India. “We also included women who headed the equity and/or fixed income function within the fund house,” Morningstar said.
 
 
