LUDHIANA: The local bodies department has finally notified the   for major municipal corporations of the state including Ludhiana. Now the   General house will fix the charges and frame the necessary by-laws after adopting the policy. 

 In a bid to to curb the discrepancies in the   system and haphazard parking on the city roads, the MC will create a park management wing that will fix the charges and keep a check on the movement of the service provider (parking contractors). The   will come into affect by August 31. 
 
 This is the first public parking policy of the state and under this policy, residents who park their vehicles on streets in residential areas will also have to shell out money. The MC will issue the permits to the owners for one year at a nominal price. 
 
 As per the policy the MC will divide the city into multiple parking zones or parking management areas. Road signages will be erected for communicating parking rules to the public. As per the policy, the MC has been asked to designate an inspector-level officer for issuing the challans for unauthorised parking. Instead of issuing the manual challans, the officials will do a videography of the illegally parked cars and challans should be sent to their residential addresses. A mobile application should be developed so that even common people can send information regarding illegally parked vehicles to the concerned officers. 
 
 MC superintendent   said, “We have received the copy of the policy and now it will be discussed with the senior officers and then kept in the general house for fixing the by-laws and charges.” He added the policy is aimed at curbing illegal and haphazard parking on road and discourage the residents to purchase more than one car because when people have to pay for the parking of cars on road, either they will park inside or they will think twice before purchasing another car.
 
 Policy highlights
 
 No parking fee from bicycle riders 
 
 On all lanes and streets, a lane may be earmarked for unhindered movement of emergency vehicles
 
 Electric vehicle charging facilities will be provided in parking facilities for night charging to promote electric vehicles 
 
 Revenue generated through parking fees will be utilised in promoting local area development such as better walking, cycling facilities, public spaces and access to high quality public transport either directly or through dedicated urban transportation fund
 
 MC will also notify roads and spaces for granting permission for overnight parking of transport vehicles upon payment 
 
 
