MUMBAI: When businessman and art collector   says, “Let me show you the sunset at Alibaug,” sitting in a corner of his office in a crowded Kala Ghoda lane, one shouldn’t be surprised. For someone who self-admittedly likes to see things with a surreal eye, the prospect isn’t entirely abstract as he browses a stack of bubble-wrapped canvases and picks out a framed artwork titled ‘Luminous Sky’. What looks like a bold and luminous oil painting of an   landscape with auburn clouds drifting over a silhouette of trees in the last light of a summer’s day, is in fact the result of some nifty finger work and a bit of tech knowhow using tools that many a veteran artist is yet to explore. 

 With the palm of his hand as his easel, the touchscreen his canvas and the stylus his paintbrush, De has been spawning art pieces of 3ft and more, sketched on his 5.2 inch mobile phone screen.
  
 At 77, De is proof it’s never too late to launch a new career. De, who calls himself a “phablet artist”, was feted last year for his breakthrough in using a   to create art and granted copyright from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry.
 
  
 Since he debuted at Jehangir Art Gallery in 2016 and sold all 23 of his paintings, De has been up-skilling himself in his ‘smartphone school of art’. “I was a greenhorn at the time, an ‘anari’ with gadgets,” he laughs as he recalls standing in his orchid garden in Alibaug when he felt the first itch to draw the flowers and erased some accidentally. “Now I take time, sometimes weeks, to build the depth and shades.”
 
 Over the past year, he has been painting voraciously – at restaurants, airports, in between meetings and his bedroom. “That’s the best thing about this art form. You’re free to paint whenever inspiration strikes. Don't have to bother with water, paints, and carrying your easel everywhere,” he says.
 
 De is now ready to showcase his second series of 24 smartphone paintings titled “Celebrations of the Unexpected’ between Jan 27 and Feb 3 at Jehangir Gallery. While a recurring theme is the Ottoman emperor, surreal landscapes and blended faces, the current series is also about reimagined portraits of “people and friends” De has known “intimately” for years.
 
 Among them is Amitabh Bachchan, “a dear friend since the Sixties as young mercantile executives in Kolkata” who will inaugurate his art show on Friday; and his author wife Shobhaa De, sitting upright, turbaned and fiery. “She wonders why the turban. But this is how I see her – gypsy heroine of the Carmen opera – full of energy, passion and ‘dum’!” he says. 
 
 If the proceeds of around Rs17 lakh from his first exhibition benefited the Cancer Patients Aid Association, the money raised from this one -- that will include an auction of his “limited edition pieces” – he will bequeath for the “modernisation of the Jehangir Art Gallery. My dream is to raise enough money for a café at the Gallery where writers, artistes and art-lovers can interact,” he says.
 
 His dream may not be far-fetched given the takers his art has found. “Nitin Rai, a charity-minded art collector from Portland has already picked up a painting for one million rupees to encourage this new frontier,” he informs.
 
 De is not a rookie on the art scene. A collector since he was 26, the shipping magnate, who has helped several artists sell their works, fishes out a sepia-tinted certificate he had received as a 12-year-old. “It’s for a painting of mine that was showcased before 10,000 children in Kolkata’s Indian Museum in 1954,” he says.
 
 But how do traditionalists receive his art? “My medium is cutting- edge but my technique is traditional, not aided by apps. Many leading painters including Laxman Shreshtha have been generous with their compliments. To criticise one must be able to paint in the same way,” he points out.
 
 
