Nashik: A total of 17 one act plays were staged during the last three days in Parshuram Saikhedkar Hall as part of the state-level theatre festival of ‘Baba’s Theatre.’ The festival is named after a leading amateur theatre group in city. The plays were based on youth-related issues. Various issues such as the romance of college life, philosophy of life, agrarian crisis, suicide, caste politics and reservation were explored in the plays. “This year, plays from Nashik, Pune, Mumbai, Dhule, Jalgaon, Solapur were presented in the competition. While two plays were staged on the inaugural day (January 15), five were scheduled every day from January 16 to 18. Most of the shows received good response from the audiences,” said Praveen Kamble, coordinator of the competition. He added, “We had received 30 plus entries from across the state, out of which 17 were selected for the competition. Our selection criteria was based on new subject, innovative style of presentation and past record of the play during the theatre season.” This year, the organisers had arranged the competition in such a way that every group got ample time for preparations such as make-up and set designing. “Last year, some groups had complained that they got only 15 minutes to get ready for the play which was insufficient. Hence, we scheduled only 5 plays a day this year. Every group received a minimum of 25 minutes to get ready. They received 30 to 45 minutes to present the play,” said Kamble. The final play of the competition was in progress till late Thursday night. Judges were scheduled to declare the results after the last play. Commissioner of police Dr Ravinder Kumar Singal, ‘Art Of Living’ Nashik centre’s coordinator Vijay Hake, industrialist Nemichand Poddar, professor Prashant Patil were the chief guests at the prize distribution ceremony. Chairman of ‘Baba’s theatre’ Prashant Junnare and Parivar Mahendra Khandwe, senior office-bearer of the co-organisers All India Multitrade Services (AIMS) were also present for the final play. The winning team will receive Rs 15,000 cash prize along with the Baba’s cup while the first and second runners up will get cash prize of Rs 10,000 and Rs 5,000 respectively. Apart from group prizes, there are 17 prizes in individual categories that will be conferred upon the performers.