Mumbai fishermen face the threat of a dip in the catch owing to a spreading algae bloom brought on by global warming, according to a research by an Indo-US team of scientists.

 The unchecked bloom of   algae in northern   voraciously eat diatoms, one of the most important planktonic organisms at the base of the fish-food chain, and excretes large amounts of ammonia resulting in massive fish mortalities, says the study by the Hyderabad-based Indian   (INCOIS) and   in the US.
 
  
 Fishermen from Mumbai and other west coast areas are already grappling with the problem of marine litter as their trawls net more debris than fish.
 
 Noctiluca algae are often reported to bloom in patches. These striking green blooms appear to glow at night, earning them the nickname ‘sea sparkle’. “Unfortunately, these beautiful patches, indicate zones of decline because fish cannot thrive and sometimes die because of these blooms,” says the study.
 
 According to an official statement from INCOIS, the bloom of Noctiluca was previously assumed to be linked with low oxygen and coastal pollution. However, the research found Noctiluca thriving due to global warming. As part of the study for ‘Development of predictive capabilities for marine fisheries and harmful algal blooms in Indian seas', the scientists used a research vessel,  , to set up buoys off the coast of Mumbai, Kochi, Gujarat and Mangaluru to study the sea atmosphere and algal blooms.They also physically validated the satellite data of distribution of both diatoms and Noctiluca.
 
 The study suggested that rather than effluents or chemical pollution, global warming conditions are contributing to the abundance of Noctiluca. Global warming is slowing the upward movement of sea nutrients like silicate from the ocean bottom. Diatoms, microorganisms that grow in surface of sea, need both sunlight and silicate to build their glass skeletons. They will fail to thrive when silicate becomes less available. And decline of diatoms lead to the death of commercially and ecologically important fish species.
 
 The scientists said Noctiluca, on the other hand, remain unaffected by these changes. Remarkably, the waters in the study area were observed to have sufficient oxygen clearly opposing any linkage between low oxygen and Noctiluca growth.
 
 To further analyse fish mortality, INCOIS is now setting up a Marine Observation System Along Indian Coast network of automated moored buoys to monitor and nowcast the water quality of the coastal waters.
 
 
