BENGALURU: The Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has ordered a   to give 25 computers to five government   as penalty for violation of RTE Act 2009 and rights of the children.

 
 Parents of two students studying in Daffodils English School had complained to the commission about 13 issues in the school, including a mandate to wear a particular branded shoe, punishing children to stand under the hot sun for an hour and insisting on taking up a competitive exam.
 
 The commission in its May 21 order directed the education department to identify government schools in and around the respondent school which require computers and ensure instalment with all accessories within 15 days from the date of receiptof order.
 
 The commission directed the Deputy Director of Public Instructions (North) and Block Education Officer (North 2) to identify the schools which require computers.
 
 Balagopal G Shenoi, a parent who complained against the school to the commission, said his children’s results were withheld by the school for nonpayment of final fee instalment. “I deliberately didn’t pay the last instalment of the fee in March 2018 as the school didn’t bother to reply to any of the complaints I raised against the school. Paying fee online was not allowed and only cash was accepted. No parents’ meeting was called. The school did not give a list of books to the parents. As punishment, children were made to stand under the hot sun for an hour. The school also made it compulsory for students to take part in competitive exams,” he said.
 
 The complainant’s two children study in the school. The complaint also pointed out that the school was making it compulsory to buy a ticket of Rs 400 to take part in its annual day event.
 
 Kripa Alva, chairperson of the commission, directed the school to abstain from withholding the report cards of any student. The order said the participation in competitive exams can only be optional. “For any function, tickets cannot be levied on parents of children,” the order said among its many directives to the school.
 
 
