Gandhinagar assembly constituency has undergone a sea change over the last two decades but its MLA has remained the same since 1999. The segment’s iconic cinema halls have given way to swank malls, roadside eateries to Darshinis and Tamilians and Telugu speaking people to Rajasthanis and Gujaratis. But the state of infrastructure and civic amenities leaves a lot to be desired.

 Sources said the only exception to the urban decay is the Namma Metro’s Interchange, which has managed to contain the chaos at the inter-modal transport hub.
 
 
 Sitting MLA Dinesh Gundu Rao, who has risen to the post of KPCC working president, is growing stronger election after election. The fourtime MLA seems to be sitting pretty this time too. Taking him on are a foreign educated Sapthagiri Gowda, son of seasoned politician Ramachandre Gowda of BJP, and Narayanaswamy of JD(S).
 
  
  
 
 Representing the constituency for nearly two decades, Dinesh has men and machinery at his command. Five of the seven wards in the constituency are represented by Congress. The presence of a large number of slums is also working to Dinesh’s advantage given the Siddaramaiah government’s sops to economically weaker sections.
 
 BJP’s Sapthagiri Gowda, who got ticket at the last minute, is banking on the perceived anti-incumbency against Dinesh and the ‘change’ the voters are seeking. “He has not done anything in the constituency. His promises have remained promises even after two decades. People, especially youngsters, are angry with him,” he says.
 
 However, the BJP candidate is facing rebellion from within. Many ticket aspirants, who are upset at being not given ticket, are not working for him. Former Chickpet corporator Shivakumar, a strong contender for the BJP ticket, is said to have remained aloof. “That is not true. In fact, all the leaders and cadre are solidly backing me and are actively campaigning,” counters Gowda.
 
 Narayanaswamy of JD(S) has embarked on an aggressive campaign for the past few months and is playing the ‘local’ boy card by painting both Dinesh and Gowda as outsiders to the constituency. His rags to riches story has also become a topic of discussion. Din ceshms to n have du R been ’ a cobstancamping o e by nt the roadsi the st fouar r election TheatNe in thj, wagmen s arrestede decades ago esof rupDinesh’deconstant opporenc in last far.r elections, V Nagaraj N , who had was arDiesesh by th 15 cr votesofn rupees 1 . ofara-j wasnetised curerency p last yesh agmissi 2004.m the e fnny thip simein 2008 garaj 20 had lost ke Dines by BJP’1,115 Moh otes in . 1999.
 
 
 
 
