VIJAYAPURA: At her first election rally in two years, UPA chairperson   accused the   government of discriminating against Congress-ruled Karnataka, and questioned his slogan of ‘sabka saath, sabka vikas’.

 
 Launching a counteroffensive against the Prime Minister, who has relentlessly targeted the   government over corruption, she wanted to know what happened to the institution of Lok Pal, the anti-graft watchdog that was proposed to be set up. “The Modi government is discriminating against our government in Karnataka. Is this your ‘sabka saath, sabka vikas’ (together with all, development for all)?”, she said.
 
 Sonia Gandhi, acknowledging the Prime Minister’s oratory skills, asked if his speeches have the potential to end hunger in the country. “Modiji is proud of the fact that he is a very good orator, I agree with this. He speaks like an actor. I’ll be happy if his speeches can end hunger of the country but speeches cannot fill empty stomachs, food is needed for that,” she argued.
 
 Karnataka leads in the successful implementation of Anna Bhagya, Ksheera Bhagya, Krushi Bhagya and is providing meals at Rs 10, Sonia said praising the Siddaramaiah government for its pro-people measures.
 
 
 
 Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge reached the venue after Sonia’s speech as he was stuck in traffic. The crowd was just dispersing but sat down to listen to Kharge. Responding to the Mudhol hounds’ comment by Modi, Kharge retorted “Congress has a history of sacrifice. Indira and Rajiv sacrificed their life for the nation. Has even a dog of an RSS or   leader sacrificed itself for the nation?” he questioned.
 
 Police in the district were on the toes with the Prime Minister’s a rally in the district, 12 km from Sonia’s venue, ending at 3pm around the time Sonia was to address her rally. The 5-km traffic jam from Jamkhandi side, left Congress workers restless. Many of them cut across slushy fields in their haste to reach the venue. By the time they reached Babaleshwar Naka, the Congress workers took out their anger on BJP workers heading back and police, who they alleged, did not clear traffic for them to reach the venue. When workers of both parties clashed, police resorted to mild caning.
 
