Jaipur: Recognizing the fact the micro, small and medium entreprises (MSMEs) are a major engine of growth and employment in the country, the finance minister rolled out several proposals to boost the sector. Besides the reduction in corporate tax from 30% to 25%, the FM also earmarked Rs 3794 crore for giving credit support, capital and interest subsidy to the sector.

 He said, “Massive formalization of the businesses of MSMEs is taking place in the country after demonetization and introduction of GST. This is generating enormous financial information database of MSMEs’ businesses and finances. This big data base will be used for improving financing of MSMEs’ capital requirement, including working capital.”
 
 But some sections of the industry painted the sops as moderate. “The benefit of 25% tax slab for companies up to turnover of Rs 250 crore has to be taken with a pinch of salt. As entire exemptions under chapter VI have to be forgone to claim the benefits. Also, similar tax slab has not been offered to partnership and sole proprietary firms,” said Abhishek Mishra, director of a leading realty company in the city.
 
 The government has extended support to textiles sector and ade greater provisions of Rebate of State Levies (ROSL) remissions. The sector has got Rs 7,148 crore support in 2018-2019 which was Rs 6000 crore in the previous year.
 
 But Saurav Gupta, general secretary of the association of garment exporters, Sitapura, said that there is a feeling that the government could have done more to create large scale jobs in the country. 
 
 However, there is a recognition that the government has accepted certain crucial demands of the industry
 
 “The budget has made a provision of Rs 1,663.85 crore for remission of state levies to provide export incentive to exporters. The industry has vehemently rooted for this and got it now,” said Mahavir Pratap Sharma, chairman of Carpet Export Promotion Council.
 
 The announcement of providing boost to fin tech companies will help Rajasthan given the fact that state produces the largest number of charted accountants in the country and emerging as a hub for such companies.
 
 “The added advantage will be support for block chain technology for finance sector announced in the budget,” said Girish Gupta, chief fund manager, Zone Startup Fund.
 
 Apart from the gemstone and jewellery sector and the long-term capital gains tax., there is no major proposal in the budget that would hurt the industry, said many industrialists in the city.
 
 
