BAREILLY: A sub-divisional magistrate of Gunnaur in Sambhal had a narrow escape early Sunday morning as the sand mining mafia tried to mow him down with tractor trolleys.

 
  Dipendra Yadav was trying to stop illegal mining operations near a tributary of the river Ganga when he was almost run over by sand-laden vehicles. Yadav dodged the approaching vehicles by jumping into a ditch on the side of the road and informed the police about the incident. 
 
 Yadav said that since they had checked illegal sand mining from Ganga riverbeds, the mafia had started mining near river Mahava, a tributary of Ganga, which has no water nowadays. 
 
 “The   becomes active after midnight at two spots – Dudabagh and Harfari – on a three kilometre stretch of Mahava. Since both locations are deep in the forest and the mafia men constantly change routes, it is a bit difficult to nab them. Moreover, the people involved in the trade have developed a counter intelligence system in our department. They manage to flee every time before we even reach the spot. Hence, we waited for them on the main road to catch them,” Yadav said.
 
 The SDM said they don't even inform the police about their operation to prevent the information from leaking. 
 
 “Taking action against sand mafia without involving the police poses danger to our lives. Today, we took position by placing two cars – one at a petrol pump and another at the opposite direction – on NH-93 near Harfari around 3am. After an hour, three tractor trolleys emerged on the highway from unpaved roads nearby. When we tried to stop them, they accelerated towards us to hit us. However, we managed to barricade the road and stopped them. Four of the men escaped, while we nabbed two and informed the police.”
 
 On April 9, SDM Yadav had another narrow escape when the driver of an illegal sand laden truck allegedly tried to mow him down during a crackdown against sand mafia.
 
 It was the 11th such operation against the sand mafia since April 9. 
 
 Station house officer of Dhanari police station, Ilam Singh, said that they had lodged an FIR and arrested the two men, while raids were being conducted to catch others. 
 
 The sand mafia has been known to attack officials and government staff trying to stop the racket. 
 
 On March 26, 2017, a forest department beat watcher was run over and killed by a tractor in Kaladhungi, near Jim Corbett National Park in Uttarakhand.
 
 
