BENGALURU: Minchina Nondani, a   and   held at over 8,000 polling stations in the city on Sunday, was anything but lightning as the name of the campaign suggested, thanks to lack of preparedness and apathetic officials.

 Citizens alleged that at many centres, officials were not very cooperative and not prompt in giving information. At some places, the officials did not even have the final list which was a necessity to assist citizens with updation. Many citizens faced hardships in locating their polling station itself, as the addresses of many of them had been changed. 
 
 K M Ramakanth Charya, a resident of Mallathahalli in west Bengaluru, said he was told that his polling station is located at Kanyakumari High School but when he went to the place around 12, nobody was there. “A party worker there told me that the registration is happening at a government school about 2km away. Though the BBMP had announced that officers at booth level will make arrangements to help citizens, I could see only two people at the venue. They couldn’t even tell me whether the name I wanted is in the voter list or not,” he rued.
 
 Complicating things were the glitches in the Election Commission website (ceokarnataka.kar.nic.in) which couldn’t be accessed for most part of the day. The website was to be of help for those seeking to know their station.
 
 Peter P, a resident of Ulsoor, said he couldn’t find which polling station he had to go as the website remained shut for long hours. 
 
 Naveen M, an officer on duty at a station in Mallathhalli, said over 70 people had visited them by afternoon. “We are trying to help people with all the information they need. But many applications for voter registration come without proper proof documents. When we try to tell them that their applications could get rejected, they don’t understand. We have no way but to accept them,” he added.
 
 Ganesh Pai, who had applied online for enrolment and running around to hand over the hard copy of the form to the authorities for some days now, was under the impression that his travails may end on Sunday. But when he visited BBMP’s Sigehalli office, officials refused to issue an acknowledgement, claiming that he was an online applicant. “There was no spot registration as such,” he said.
 
 P G Bhat, who has been analysing the voter list in Karnataka for many years, said there was no booth-level officer to receive applications at Vijayabharathi High School, Auden Public School and   in Girinagar till 11am on Sunday. 
 
 “Many citizens were waiting. When I called the CEO-Karnataka, the number was out of reach. I also tried the number of Ramesh, joint CEO, but in vain,” he added.
 
 A BBMP official said they came to know that in many stations, the staff arrived late and there were problems with the website. “The election authority had given clear instructions to officials about their attendance at polling stations. We will look into the matter,” he added.
 
 Bengaluru district election officer N Manjunath Prasad was not available for comments. 
 
 You still have time
 
 Though the mass registration drive at 8,000 polling stations got over on Sunday, those who missed to register/update need not worry. You can do it at BBMP ward offices or online till April 14.
 
 1L applications received 
 
 BBMP received 1.24 lakh applications from across 28 assembly constituencies of which 1 lakh are for registration of new voters and the remaining for corrections, change of address etc. Mahadevapura recorded the highest submissions (18,472) followed by KR Puram (1,1926) and Byatarayanapura (8,288). 
 
 BBMP stated that 7,313 officials were present across the 8,287 polling stations in the city; 974 officers were absent. 
 
 
