Fact: Nobody’s perfect. Yet another fact: Everyone messes up sometimes. More fun fact: If you are working in an  , chances are you’ll encounter an awkward moment at least once (or more) in your work life. It could range from the super embarrassing “Your zip is open” moment to the consternating accidental burping in a meeting. It could be forgetting a colleague’s name, body odour or bad breath or just spinach stuck in your teeth. However mortifying the situation seems at that moment, this too shall pass, says corporate trainer Konkona Bakshi. 

 
 
 
 “You have to remember not to sweat the small stuff,” she says, “The key is to stay poised while tackling someone who’s experiencing an awkward situation or even if you are stuck in one.” What works is positive body language. Her advise? Just approach the person with a smile, a little friendly touch and an even tone of voice telling them what is wrong. “Gender rules apply. Unless you are good friends and share a different equation, a man telling a woman that there’s a lipstick stain on her teeth or a woman telling a man his fly is open is generally not a good idea,” she notes. 
 But different situations call for different tacks. Image consultant Sheena Agarwal says, “When caught in an awkward moment, accept the flub and apologise than try to wriggle your way out.” Gaffes like burping, food getting stuck in the teeth are natural, so one can just say “excuse me” and get away with it. 
 
 
 
 While getting out of an awkward situation is easier, approaching someone who made a gaffe is easier said than done. Directly approach a colleague if you share a friendly equation. Bakshi says that corporate culture today is far more forgiving and friendly. Take for instance, a human resources professional approached her on how to tackle a new recruit who had a bad case of BO. “As you work in an office, a certain level of friendliness brings in familiarity. Such groups can tackle these awkward situations easily enough,” she says. The problem happens with a new recruit. 
 In such case, HR personnel can approach her and explain to her in a non-intimidating way the value of good hygiene. Bakshi also advises corporates to hold personal hygiene workshops. “Keep a standard-issue hygiene kit in the office loo – mouthwash, hand sanitiser, a body spray,” she adds. 
 
 
 
 
 Agarwal says that if you are at the receiving end, make sure you tackle the situation gracefully. She says, “Never point out such irregularities in a place where it might get embarrassing for him/her. I would rather have a text being sent out to me than stopping me short in public! And if someone does, just thank the person for checking you and move on.” 
 
 But as Bakshi concludes, “The workforce is getting younger and what was a big boo-boo earlier is just a minor matter now. The younger lot has an ability to laugh and learn.” So, a slip slipping out is not that big a slip now.
 
 
 
 
 
  Your colleagues catch you job searching
 
 First, never print your CV at work. If the damage is done, meet your manager to discuss why you’re thinking of leaving. He/she may have a solution. 
 
 
 
 You’re stuck in the elevator alone with your boss, and have to make small talk 
 
  First, don’t ignore the elephant in the room, a.k.a., your boss. Start the conversation – talk about the weather, weekend plans, new client. You don’t have to chat the whole way. Part ways with a “Have a good day”. 
 
 
 
  Your boss catches you wasting time online
 
  Can’t bluff your way out of this one. Boss walks in and you are watching a viral dog video, just ask him/her to join in the fun. Finish it, get back to work. If you aren’t close, let him/her know you were just clearing your head.
 
 
 
 You forgot someone’s name in a meeting 
 Admit your mistake. And say, “Gosh, I just went blank on your name, please forgive me.” It’s awkward but better than going silent. 
 
 
 
 
 You are about to cry at work
 
 Excuse yourself to a quiet spot where you can be alone to calm down. Stop thinking about what made you upset. Take a deep breath, and relax.
 
 
 
