Chandigarh: On a suggestion by chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, the Punjab council of ministers, in a meeting on Wednesday, set up a sub-committee to review the state’s mining policy and suggest ways to make it more effective and stringent.

 The sub-committee comprises local government minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, finance minister Manpreet Badal and rural development minister Tripat Rajinder Singh Bajwa.
 
 Amarinder has called a meeting of DCs and SSPs of 14 districts on Thursday to discuss the issue of illegal mining as well as the state’s mining policy. The DCs and SSPs of the 14 districts of the state where mining takes place have been asked to give their inputs on the mining policy, said a spokesperson, adding that ways to curb illegal mining in the state would also be discussed.
 
 DCs and SSPs have been summoned from Amritsar, Faridkot, Ferozepur, Hoshiarpur, Patiala, Pathankot, Jalandhar and Ludhiana, said the spokesperson.
 
 A mining department spokesperson said 4,285 FIRs had been registered across the state while keeping a check on illegal mining. Teams of police and civil officials are also on the job of tracking all such activity, especially in areas where machines were spotted by the chief minister yesterday.
 
 Need for changes
 
 Amarinder said the state cabinet had received several complaints from DCs and SSPs regarding certain clauses in the mining policy that make its implementation difficult.
 
 Job, cash reward for grappler Navjot 
 
 The Punjab cabinet has decided to offer a suitable government job to wrestler Navjot Kaur, and give her a cash reward of Rs 5 lakh, following her gold-winning performance in Asian Wrestling Championships in Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan. Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh mooted the proposal to offer a job to Navjot during a meeting of the state cabinet here on Wednesday. Meanwhile, Punjab will work on a comprehensive policy for rewarding sports persons, specifying the criteria for providing job opportunity to those winning various medals.
 
 
