She was born in  , Mumbai’s infamous Red-Light area, to a sex worker mother. But   never felt out of place in the world. Her mother had stopped sex work, married the man who had fathered her child, and   remembers her father as someone who doted on her. But when she turned 11, her world came crumbling down. “My dad died all of a sudden one morning. By evening, my mom had gotten my stepdad home to stay with us. I hardly had the time to grieve or recover from my loss. I was devastated when I was asked to address this complete stranger as ‘father’ and share the house with him.” says Jayshree, now 17. 
The stepfather turned out to be a monster. “Mere papa mujhe bahut pyaar karte the. Aur stepdad unse bilkul opposite the. Mujhe bahut maarte the...” she recalls. unable to take the constant abuse, she ran away from home and took refuge in Kranti, a Mumbai-based NGO, which has been working towards empowering women like her from Kamathipura. Jayshree’s is just one of the many heart-wrenching true stories which will be brought to life in front of the Hyderabadi audience in the play Red-Light Express on January 21.
 
 “Er, call it ‘success story’,” Jayshree quickly corrects us. “Humara success story hai because today, when I think of my stepdad I don’t feel remorse or anger towards him. instead, I feel like saying thank you to him; I am here today because of what he did,” she asserts, giving us a whole new perspective on the lives of daughters of sex workers of Kamathipura, one of Asia’s largest and oldest red-light districts. After enthralling packed houses in Smock Alley Theatre, Dublin, Midland Arts Centre, Birmingham, New York City and Chicago among others, Red-Light Express, which makes its India premiere in Hyderabad, will see actors aged between 14 to 21 — all daughters of sex workers — narrating their own stories, taking the audience through life in the Red-Light area and highlighting the ills of human trafficking. written, acted and directed by the girls themselves, it’s a theatrical take of their pasts, presented with the aim of throwing light on how sex trade in India rips many children off their childhood, often compelling them to carry on the same work, unless they find an escape route and get a chance to 
 empower themselves. Like 21-year-old   Yadav did. 
 
 Sharing with us the story of her mother who left her in the custody of a paedophile stepfather and went back to the brothel, Taniya says, “I was 14 when my mother left my sister and me with my stepfather. He used to rape and abuse me in every way, everyday. One day, I ran away from home. Somehow, I reached Kranti and my life got saved,” says Taniya, who also managed to rescue her little sister Mahek, now 14. 
 Theatre and therapy together has contributed tremendously in helping these young girls get over their violent past, says Robin Chaurasiya, Varkey Foundation’s Global Teacher Prize 2017 nominee and co-founder of the NGO. “We looked beyond the girls’ backgrounds while choosing them for the play. But theatre has been a great therapy for these girls to get themselves out of the trauma and reshape their lives. For instance, after this play, many in the team have chosen to carry on as professional actors,” says Robin, adding that the play was originally conceptualised in 2011, but over the years, it has evolved to become an eye-opener and proof that no matter what you’ve been through, you can become an agent of social change. 
 
 For the girls and their mentors it’s a matter of pride that the play is totally their own baby. “The girls narrate their ordeals to Pankaj ( ) and he gives their stories a theatrical shape. For instance, he tells them who is going to stand where on the stage and all that. But, rest everything is done by the girls themselves — from writing dialogues, choosing dialogue deliveries to expressions. It is completely their show,” says Bani das, co-founder of the NGO, adding, “The whole motto of this play is to give the dignity of labour to sex workers, so that society changes its outlook towards them. We wanted to create a platform for more and more people to come and discuss their lives, trauma and survival stories on an open forum and this play has given us that opportunity.” After Hyderabad, Red-Light Express, will travel to the International Theatre Festival of Kerala.
 
  
 
