BHOPAL: The state government is considering to declare   as an elephant habitat considering jumbos’ straying into   and   districts from other states. Elephants from Odisha are straying into the state through Chhattisgarh, some have not returned, sources said.

 Principal secretary forest   said that proposal was mooted. “Elephants are straying into our areas like Siddhi, Singrauli, Shahdol, Annupur, Mandla and Dindori. Plan to declare Sanjay National Park as elephant habitat is in process,” Khandekar told TOI.
 
 The area adopted by elephants in MP has a rich vegetation, including bamboo shoots — their favourite food. In July 2017, a herd of elephants had strayed into jungles around Kusmi block in Siddhi district from Chhattisgarh sparking panic. However no damages were reported.
 
 Elephants come from Odisha, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh to adjoining areas of Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh due to abundance of standing crop and bamboo, besides other forest produce. Usually, it takes refuge in small patches of forests during daytime, come out and raids crops in night. In Madhya Pradesh, straying of wild elephants were first reported in Siddhi district in 2002.
 
 The state government had recently initiated a fresh move to buy elephants from Karnataka, the state home to 20% of pachyderm population in the country.
 
 The last time such attempt was made in 2012. Back then, it was not successful as most elephants selected by their Karnataka counterparts were medically unfit and the project was put on the back burner, sources in forest department said. The state had lost its elephants to Chhattisgarh after the division of the state.
 
 The   government has already permitted Karnataka to hand over some of its captive elephants. In November 2011, the Union ministry had given nod for the first time following a request from the Karnataka state principal chief conservator of forests and wildlife warden.
 
 That time, Karnataka had identified 29 elephants from camps. Later, officials from Madhya Pradesh visited the camps and expressed their displeasure over the ‘quality’ of selected elephants, sources said.
 
