BATHINDA: Concerned over the change of colour of water in the   canal and Sirhind feeder, which has put the ecology in danger, social activists and public representatives have joined hands in   to make efforts for making the canal toxic free. 

 
  
 An action group has been formed with the efforts of NGOs Society for Ecological and   (SEER) and Bhai Ghanaiya Cancer Roko Sewa Society.
 
 Faridkot MP Sadhu Singh and Kotkapura MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan, both from AAP, have also lent support to the action group. The group members assembled at the Rajasthan canal and Sirhind Feeder, which run parallel outside Faridkot, late on Sunday evening. They decided to approach the   Pollution Control Board (PPCB) and the   ( ) to ensure no toxic industrial waste was thrown into these water channels. 
 
 Meanwhile, the mobile water testing laboratory of the Punjab public health and sanitation department visited Faridkot and Muktsar districts to collect samples of the water from canals. The department has made it clear that water from canals will be released to waterworks for further supply to villages for drinking purposes only after getting positive results of sampled water.
 
 Faridkot MP Singh said ecology had been badly affected due to blackening of water in the Rajasthan canal and Sirhind feeder. “It has increased mortality rate of fish and stink from water is causing problems to people living in the vicinity. The water being lifted through waterworks for drinking purposes has also been declared unfit for human consumption, which is also taking its toll on the locals this summer. We have decided to work for making canals toxic free.”
 
 Sandhwan MLA and Bhai Ghanaiya society convener Gurpreet Singh Chandbhaja said not only people of Punjab, but even from Rajasthan use the Rajasthan   and had been affected by the toxicity. 
 
 The NGO, SEER, has decided to approach the NGT and, if needed, the Punjab and Haryana high court to seek directions to the industrial units not to throw effluents into canals, which badly affects the lives of people and animals.
 
 
