PATNA: Eleven passenger   either originating from Patna Junction or passing through it were cancelled on Friday due to foggy weather conditions. 

 An East Central Railway (ECR) official said railways cancelled the premier Patna-New Delhi   due to its abnormal late running from the New Delhi end on Friday. Other important trains which were cancelled on Friday included Danapur-Delhi Jansadharan   (both Up and Down), Mahananda Express, Poorva Express, Vikramshila Express, Patna-Kota Express and Patna-Ranchi Janshatabdi Express.
 
 The railways also rescheduled departure of Patna-Hatia Express at 2.15pm while Patna-Katihar Intercity and Magadh Express were rescheduled late in the evening. Dense fog delayed   by six hours, New Delhi-Dibrugarh Rajdhani Express by five hours, New Delhi-Patna Rajdhani Express by nine hours and New Delhi-Bhagalpur Vikramshila Express by 10 hours.
 
 New Delhi-Rajgir Shramjeevi Express was running late by four hours, Poorva Express by seven hours, Patna-Mumbai Lokmanya Tilak Express by three hours and Bangalore-Patna Sanghmitra Express by six hours. The New Delhi-Islampur Magadh Express was delayed by seven hours and Vasco Da Gama-Patna Express by five hours.
 
 Similarly, Poorvottar Sampark Kranti Express was running late by 10 hours, Kamakhya-Mumbai LTT Express by five hours, Brahmaputra Mail by 14 hours, Seemanchal Express by 10 hours and North East Express by 12 hours.
 
 Meanwhile, sudden cancellation of premier trains like Rajdhani Express and Sampoorna Kranti Express have hit passengers. A few of the aggrieved passengers said the railways should find an alternative way to deal with foggy weather condition. “Though railways has claimed that ‘fog pass signal devices’ have been installed on the locomotives of mail and express trains, all passenger trains are running abnormally late in the Danapur division of ECR,” they said, adding railways should develop a radio link service on the pattern of aeroplanes to run passenger trains uninterrupted in foggy weather conditions.
 
 The railways has suffered a huge loss due to cancellation and abnormal late running of passenger trains in the division. Though the exact loss of revenue could not be assessed, it is believed that if cancellation of premier trains continues for few more days, the railways will suffer revenue loss in crores.
 
 
