PATNA: The three-day exhibit expert committee meeting, organised by the department of science and technology (DST) department, began here on Thursday. Officials of the department said the   at   would be thrown open to the public by 2020.

 Principal secretary of DST Anshuli Arya said, “The expert committee will discuss five different concepts in three days – basic science, body and mind, learning space, environment sustainability and space and astronomy. More than 100 exhibits will be finalized for display at Science City under these five categories. Besides, a special gallery – ‘Be a scientist’ – will also be there for the budding scientists who aim to explore scientific theories and concepts. Children will be allowed to do experimental and recreational activities in this gallery.”
 
 Arya added the gallery will have digital, mechanical, electromechanical, hybrid digital mechanical, audio and light immersion exhibits.
 
 Manas Bihari Verma, retired scientist of   ( ), said, “The theme will include ancient astronomy, modern astronomy and space exploration with a telescope terrace for observing the sky.”
 
 A D Chaudhary, director of the Science City, Kolkata, said, “The proposed Science City at Rajendra Nagar will be one of the most advanced science cities in the country. It will be equipped with latest technology. Through fancy learning outside the classrooms, students can learn more about robotics, nanotechnology, space, life sciences and human body.”
 
 The architectural design has been finalized for the project. Erika Kiessner, content, interactive and technology director of GSM, a UK-based management firm, said, “The proposed Science City will be a two-storied building with five activity centres, four primary galleries, laboratories, data analytics centre, a kitchen and a dormitory with a capacity to accommodate 200 students.”
 
 “The Science City will come up on 20.48 acres of land in Patna with an estimated expenditure of Rs 397 crore. The construction work will start within the next three months. The tender is expected to be floated in the first week of June. Work to construct boundary wall for the building has already completed,” said Atul Sinha, director of DST, adding the project, which was conceptualised in 2013, got delayed due to hurdles coming in way of land acquisition. 
 
 
