CHANDIGARH: The   officials couldn’t wait a day more and reached office on Sunday to analyse why the students of the government schools failed to perform well in the CBSE Class XII examination. The pass percentage of government schools had dipped by nearly 1% this year. 

 The officials said the department is going to be “firm” this year and have also decided to fix the responsibility of the principals and lecturers.
 
 “We shall take action against those who have failed to perform. After all, why are the principals and teachers being paid for. The administration has provided best facilities and infrastructure, then why the performance of the students will not be up to the mark? We would carry out an objective analysis and take corrective measures. We shall act tough,” said BL Sharma, UT education secretary.
 
 To focus on the loopholes, the UT education department has started analyzing the last three-year results of the government schools on Sunday itself. “My team is on job since Sunday morning. We are analyzing the results of all schools in the last three years. We will find the loopholes, fix the responsibility and make the principals and lecturers accountable. We are going to be firm this time,” said Rubinderjit Singh Brar, director school education.
 
 Sources said an explanation has already been sought from the principals of the schools which failed to come up with good scores. However, officials said it will be done on Monday.
 
 Meanwhile, some officials claimed the government schools lack teachers and might be one of the reasons for the poor performance. Sharma, however, denies the allegation and said, “At senior secondary level, the pupil-teacher ratio is 38:1, which is quite reasonable. Therefore, the argument that there is a shortage of teachers is wrong.”
 
 However, the teachers said this ratio was “incorrect”. A teacher requesting anonymity said, “The statement that PTR is 38:1 is wrong. The department is calculating PTR on an average whereas the PTR should be calculated at the school level. Besides, as per CBSE norms, the class strength of students at Class XI and XII must not be above 40. Class strength is above 60 in many schools. So, there are violations of CBSE affiliation norms.”
 
 Teachers said the drop was expected. Another teacher requesting anonymity said, “The drop of pass percentage was evident and expected. The education department points out the reason of non-availability of lecturers and principals in schools but those teachers who are available are put through various non-academic duties at the cost of studies. If teachers are involved in duties like  , funds,   and RMSA, PLA, midday meals, scholarship etc,   of Class X and XII and other classes will continue to be poor. The entire responsibility lies on the education department.”
 
 It was reported on Saturday that the result of the government schools in Class XII exams has seen a slight dip as compared to last year. The overall pass percentage in government schools was recorded at 73.63 %. In 2017, it was 74.72%. Last year, the overall pass percentage of government schools had witnessed an increase of 6.41%.
 
 A total of 11,280 students from 40 government schools of the city had appeared for the exams. As many as 8,305 students had cleared the exam. Last year, 10,742 students had appeared from 39 government schools.
 
 However, the number of schools getting pass percentage above 90% increased this year from six in 2017 to eight in 2018.
 
 In 2017, Government Model Senior Secondary School (GMSSS)-Manimajra Housing Complex, GMSSS-16, GMSSS-35, GMSSS-37 B, GMSSS-32 and GMSSS-19/C had managed a pass percentage above 90%. This year, GMSSS-33 and GGMSSS-18 have been added to the list.
 
 
 
 
