NAGPUR: Eleven faculty members of   are showing their work at Raja Ravi Varma art gallery under Srijan initiative of SCZCC. “Art of different medium and styles is on display here,” said one of the artist Vikas Joshi, whose six paintings are on display. “It is a series based on nature which I have named as ‘Prakriti’. All my emotions have been brought out through colours as I have not used any form here,” Joshi says.

 Using vertical lines to express himself,   says that his paintings are a linear drama which unfolds against the backdrop of nature. “I can create anything I want with these lines which in luminous colours create new dimensions and tell their own story,” he says. Eight paintings in two sets by Shashikant Rewade are imprints of the subconscious. “These are day to day life experiences. I have picked up the ones which surface and express both fortunate and unfortunate happenings,” says Rewade who has used solid black backgrounds for these expressions. The single painting of Kishor Ingle speaks about superstitions often misplaced. “We knowingly jump a traffic signal but will halt if a cat crosses our path,” says Ingle whose graffiti centric work manipulates the visuals to create insightful art.
 
 The three paintings by Mrunal Joharapurkar show her affinity towards pieces of furniture. “Chair, which is in focus has an association with life as it reflects its various periods,” she says about her work which with its linear rhythm and colour harmonies acquires charm and grace. The set of ten paintings in black ink and pen by   are about multiple faces and express the various emotions and sensitivity in a human being. “I use pen and ink as it is easy to explore and execute thoughts through this,” he says about the media.
 
 Use of vibrant colours to achieve bold textural effects mark the art work of Subhash Bhabulkar. Done on two separate canvas his art work is represented as one. “My genre is abstract and I work on a background using bright contrasting colours. The idea of combining two canvas emerges from the fact that people are becoming extremely individualistic and don’t wish to associate with others,” he says. The three water colours by   mirror three different venues of the city. “I find this media very challenging as I like to capture the natural light and ambience of the place,” he says.
 
 The miniatures by Vinod Chavan are inspired by the works of Ustad Mansoor, an artist who lived in the era of Mughal emperor Jahangir. “Mansoor had done a series on Kashmir when he visited the place. My paintings are an attempt to show how he would have seen it if he were to visit the place today,” said Chavan who teaches art history. Prafull Nayse uses his art work to depict the failures and wrongdoings in our social system. “Here, I have used crow which has both positive and negative connotations,” he says.
 
 
