KOLKATA: Several bars and pubs have reported a dip of close to 25% in business due to the beer crisis. Triggered by a sharp price rise, which has led most manufacturers to hold back production, supply has now come down to a trickle. Other than a few, who had built up stocks last month, Kolkata’s watering holes are now bereft of beer.

 Irish   in   ran out of beer stock close to 10 days ago. “There is not a single bottle of beer in the outlet and we have no idea when the situation will return to normal. A big chunk of our guests are young professionals who prefer lager beer. But for the last two weekends, we have not been able to serve any beer,” said   of Irish Pub.
 
 Café Mezunna in South City is also left with no stock of beer. “We are unable to serve beer to our customers currently but we are hopeful that it will be available soon,” said   of Café Mezunna. The Abcos Food Plaza near   has also run dry of its beer stock. “What is worse that there is no solution in sight. Business has taken a big hit,” said the manager.
 
 At Chili’s Bar and Grill in South City, only Heineken was available over the weekend. “This is the only beer we have in stock. We do not know when the other brands of beer will be available,” said a representative.
 
 Several nightclubs where the clientele is young and prefer beer are worried about the crisis. It has the potential of impacting the city’s nightlife adversely. “We are left with not a single bottle. If the situation is not resolved soon, we will incur huge losses because beer is the highest selling beverage in most nightclubs. We are in touch with beer companies but they are telling us that it will take some time for supply to return to normal,” said the owner of a pub on Park Street.
 
 Budweiser and Haywards 5000 are the only leading brands still available. “Their manufacturer has managed to sort out the price issue. But for the rest, nothing is decided as yet. So, we expect the crisis to last at least a month more,” said a liquor business insider. Oasis on Park Street is among the lucky few that still have enough stock to last till April. “It has been our practice to stock more. By the time we run out of our stocks, the crisis should be over,” said owner Pratap Daryanani.
 
