NEW DELHI: A majority of farmers and retailers preferred linking sale of   to   under direct benefit transfer ( ) scheme as it has reduced diversion of cheap urea for industrial use or being smuggled to neighbouring countries, while 98 per cent farmers surveyed said the amount charged matched the sum in receipts, according to a study conducted by  .

 On the downside, the study found that there were serious issues with matching fingerprints and connectivity for the use of Aadhaar, an issue that might relate to quality of machines and the familiarity of retailers with the mechanism.
 
 The need to improve connectivity has been flagged by previous studies, as this reduced the efficacy of biometric verification and acceptance of the farmers. The study by  , a global financial inclusion consulting firm, across 14 districts in Maharashtra, Haryana, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Telangana between July and September 2017, found that 59 per cent of farmers were in favour of linking Aadhaar to the sale of highly subsidised fertilisers.
 
  
  
 
 "We found the feeling of farmers in this case is identical to what common man said when demonetisation of high value currency notes happened. Farmers admitted there were difficulties, but they are liking it as it has stopped diversion of cheap urea for industrial use and the availability has increased," said Mitul Thapliyal, associate director and head of digital financial services (government and social impact) at Microsave.
 
 In fact, the first phase of DBT in fertilizer is aimed at identifying how much subsidised urea is bought by actual farmers.
 
 Unlike other DBTs where the subsidy is directly deposited in beneficiaries’ bank accounts, in fertilizer sector, the fertilizer marketing companies get the subsidy amount after verification of real buyers. Citing an example of how the government still has an unfinished task to stop diversion of urea, the report said in Kishanganj, Bihar, average price paid per bag of urea was Rs 398.
 
 While suggesting that the new DBT model has progressed well, the study also found that 79 per cent of farmers who were against DBT flagged no matching of fingerprints as a key reason.
 
