ROHTAK/HISAR: Two days after the BJP’s ‘Yuva Hunkar Rally’ at Jind, Rohtak and Hisar district administrations beefed up security by deploying paramilitary and Haryana police personnel for the commemoration of ‘Balidan Diwas’ by the   (AIJASS) on Sunday.

 In Rohtak, police have set up 30 nakas with 25 security personnel each to avert any untoward situation during the day. AIJASS has decided to celebrate ‘Balidan Diwas’ at Jassia village, which was the epicentre during the Jat agitation in February 2016. Four paramilitary companies have been deployed at Makdoli toll plaza, Jind bypass, Gohana stand and at another place in the town.
 
 Rohtak’s deputy superintendent of police (traffic)   said no vehicle from outside would be allowed entry on Sunday and those would have to be diverted through the bypass. He said security personnel had been deployed near Jassia in large numbers.
 
 The Rohtak administration imposed Section 144 (banning assembly of more than four persons) of CrPC in the wake of the   Jind rally and ‘Balidan Diwas.’
 
 Talking to newspersons, AIJASS chief   said they would start their event at 11 am on Sunday to pay tributes to those who were killed during the 2016 Jat quota stir. “This would be followed by a brainstorming session on the future course of agitation,” Malik added.
 
 He said the ‘Balidan Diwas’ would be attended by a large number of people and it would be celebrated across Haryana and other states as well. Malik said if the state government did not fulfill their demands within the stipulated time, due action would be taken. 
 
 Meanwhile, the Hisar administration has made elaborate arrangements in the town to deal with any eventuality during the ‘Balidan Diwas’ on Sunday. Mayyar village has been selected by   to mark the day to pay tributes to those who were killed during the quota stir.
 
 Hisar deputy commissioner Nikhil Gajraj said leaves of all officials of the district administration had been cancelled and four duty magistrates had been deployed under the additional deputy commissioner (ADC) A S Mann to keep a tab on the developments on Sunday.
 
 Rambhagat Malik, state spokesperson of AIJASS, informed the media that they would mark the day between Mayyar and Ramayan villages. He said their chief Malik was unlikely to attend the meeting on Sunday due to his prior commitments.
 
 
