Bhopal: There is no stopping Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC), which has literally gone overboard to accomplish the number one ranking in upcoming Swachh India survey.

 To present itself as the ‘cleanest city’ in the country, the civic body is placing new waste-collection bins outside various colonies. These bins, which are allegedly manufactured sans supervision, are likely to spread vector-borne diseases, claim health experts.
 
 Residents of Shahpura and TT Nagar are vehemently opposing the placement of these bins in their colonies. “These bins have no scope for water to flow out. The city received rainfall this week that has exposed the futility of these concrete bins since they are clogged with water. It is completely ridiculous and the state government should take stern action against the contractor and BMC engineers who authorised their construction,” said a Shahpura resident welfare association representative, seeking anonymity.
 
 “I am not aware who designed these bins. In all probability, the bins are being made under the Swachh Bharat mission,” said BMC engineer PK Jain. BMC zonal officer (civil) is also unaware about the designs of these newly-laid bins.
 
 “In accordance with vector control measures, such bins can be dubbed as perfect larval habitats. Reducing vector habitats and breeding sites is the only remedy to combat malaria, dengue and chikungunya. Unscientific bins will only add to the vector problem in the city,” said Dr Akhilesh Dubey, the district malaria officer.
 
 In the last one year, over three dozen people have died and more than a thousand people tested positive for dengue and chikungunya. “BMC has not consulted the health department in this regard,” said Dr Dubey.
 
 Senior officials in the health department are tight-lipped over commenting on the issue. “Vector control and urbanisation should go hand-in-hand. Civic infrastructure and amenities need to take in account the health impact on the population,” said a senior official. He admitted that Arera Colony and Shahpura were high-risk zones, with regard to dengue and chikungunya infections in the last couple of years.
 
 In the first two months of this year, the city has reported 7 chikungunya and five dengue cases. This is a matter of serious concern because this time of the year is considered an off-season for vector-borne ailments. In the year 2016, when chikungunya was reported after a gap of five years in Bhopal, the total number of cases were only 13.
 
 BOX:
 
 Swachh Card initiative gets thumbs-up
 
 ‘Swachh Cards’, which is a brainchild of he BMC to encourage citizens to participate in Swachh mission-related activities, has received praise from the Union government. The scheme has been lauded for its tie-up with vendors and other commercial groups. Every Swachh Card holder accumulates points when they participate in Swachh India activities conducted or facilitated by the BMC. Mobile applications along with a web portal has been developed to facilitate registration, viewing activity calendar, receiving communication regarding upcoming activities and checking points allocated to each activity. The initiative encourages citizens’ participation in Swachh Bharat Mission, the Union government has stated.
 
 Smart solutions for waste management
 
 Waste management: This includes turning waste into energy and fuel, also turning garbage into compost, treatment of waste water, recycling etc.
 
 Water management: Smart meters and proper management, leakage identification and its prevention and maintenance, water quality monitoring
 
 **
 
 Smart city projects
 
 Bhopal smart city will spend around Rs 50 crore to improve sanitation and hygiene in the state capital over the next five years, according to a detailed project report by the civic body. It includes a solid waste management and disposal unit in TT Nagar.
 
 List of projects proposed under smart city
 
 1 Electricity provisions and energy efficiency: Rs 120 crore
 
 2 Sanitation: Rs 50.5 crore
 
 3 ICT: Rs 150 crore
 
 4 Water supply: Rs 86 crore
 
 5 Mobility: Rs 95 crore
 
 6 Area improvement: Rs 20 crore
 
 7 Housing: Rs 914 crore
 
 8 Smart unified governance: Rs 200 crore
 
 9 Intelligent street-lighting: Rs 448.21 crore
 
 
