CHANDIGARH: As the meeting between the representatives of sanitation staff of the Haryana’s civic bodies and state government’s resident commissioner in New Delhi Anand Mohan Sharan failed to break the deadlock, the former extended their agitation by another three days.

 The contractual sanitation workers of civic bodies threw garbage outside the residences of   ministers and MLAs in Haryana and party offices in the districts.
 
 In Rohtak, the agitating sanitation workers threw garbage outside the BJP office. In Hisar, the workers staged an agitation outside the office of local MLA Kamal Gupta. In Sonipat, the agitating staff piled up the garbage on the main entry points of the city and the national highways. In Fatehabad, the sanitation staffers also staged a protest.
 
 The agitating workers also threatened to go on indefinite strike in case the urban local bodies department failed to act on their demand for regularization of their services in the next three days.
 
 Thousands of contractual and temporary staff of the sanitation and other wings of 63 municipal committees, 17 municipal councils and 10 municipal corporations have come out in the open against the government to press for their demands for regular appointments in the department against vacant posts.
 
 Citing administrative reasons and legal hazards, the Haryana urban local bodies department had expressed its inability to regularize the contractual staff. The government had, however, agreed to give equal work pay to the agitating staffers, officials informed.
 
 Subhash Lamba, a representative Sarv Karamchari Sangh, who too was present in the meeting at Delhi, said, “All the demands were related to the policy issues. The resident commissioner had assured to pass on our message and charter of demands to the CM and the ministers concerned, hence we decided to defer our indefinite strike and extend the regular agitation by another three days,” said Lamba.
 
 On the other hand, Sharan informed the newsmen in New Delhi that the agitating employees were apprised about the government’s problems. He said alternate arrangements had been made to ensure that the municipalities and locals do not suffer.
 
 In Ambala, former Union minister Venod Sharma and Ambala mayor Ramesh Mal joined the agitating civic bodies’ contractual staff in their strike.
 
 
