NEW DELHI: Soon after they   to undergo a  , the Delhi high court   of a   by the   of a   from St Stephen’s Hospital who is a  .

 A bench of Justices S Muralidhar and I S Mehta noted that the parents of Dr Suyash Gupta refused to under go polygraph test before the police but wanted a copy of the confidential investigation report filed in a sealed cover in the court. Gupta went missing after the murder of a colleague Dr Shashwat Pande.
 
 The bench disposed of the plea and acknowledged that the report “contains exhaustive details of the intensive investigation undertaken by the station house officer (SHO) of Sabzi Mandi police station to trace the son of the petitioner.”
 
 Declining the plea of Gupta’s parents that they should get a copy of the report, HC said “the details cannot be shared with the petitioner at this stage. This status report, therefore, be kept in a sealed cover by the registry and not be permitted for inspection except under orders of the court.”
 
 It also asked the magistrate — before whom the police had filed the application for polygraph test — to review the progress of the probe by police once every month, adding that it expects police will keep the magistrate apprised of any progress.
 
 Vandana Gupta, who is the petitioner, had alleged that the status reports filed by police are “mere cut and paste versions” of earlier such reports with no real progress made to trace her missing son.
 
 HC disagreed, noting that “having gone through the status reports presented thus far, including the one presented to it on Friday in a sealed cover, the court is unable to accept the above submission.”
 
 It, however, assured the Guptas that police are making every effort from all possible angles to unearth the truth.
 
 Vandana Gupta had filed a writ of habeas corpus last year, urging HC to direct police to find their son who has been missing since the day of the murder — August 25, 2017. She also alleged that the family was being harassed by police to take a polygraph test, even though they have cooperated with the investigation at each step.
 
 A third-year medical student, working as an intern in the radiology department of St Stephen’s Hospital, Pande was found murdered inside the hospital’s CT scan lab. His throat had been slit, presumably with a surgical blade.
 
 
