NOIDA: Four persons wanted in cases of murder and robbery were arrested on Saturday after a chase and   near   County   outpost in Noida Extension.

 The accused have been identified as Farman (25), a resident of Ghaziabad, Raju (26), who hails from Mussoorie, Sachin (25), a resident from Moradabad and Polash (27) from West Bengal. All four have cases of murder, robbery and attempt to murder against them.
 
 Anit Kumar, the circle officer of Bisrakh, said police had received a tip-off that the four accused could pass the Noida Extension area on Saturday. “We deployed a police team to check for the criminals. The four came in a Hyundai Santro and were asked to stop. But they tried to speed away and fired at the policemen,” he said.
 
 Sources said that the police team gave the Santro a chase and intercepted the vehicle after 500 metres. The four persons abandoned the car and tried to flee, firing at the cops in between. The police retaliated with shots, hitting Farman and Raju on the legs. Sachin and Polash were also arrested but did not receive any bullet injury.
 
 Three country-made guns and some live cartridges were recovered from the four. Circle officer Kumar said the four were part of a gang that robbed travellers on various highways across western UP. The four had allegedly killed one of their own gang members last year following a dispute over sharing of loot.
 
 A case of murder was registered at Bisrakh police station in this regard.
 
 The accused have reportedly told the police that they had robbed several travellers on expressways and highways. “We used to open fire if the travellers resisted the robbery bid,” an officer quoted Farman as saying. Police had earlier announced a Rs 25,000 reward on the arrest of Farman and Raju.
 
 The injured were sent to district hospital for treatment. “They will be produced in court and sent to judicial custody once they are discharged from hospital. The two other criminals were sent to jail after completing legal formalities,” said an officer.
 
 
