At the   film festival this year, one of the major points of discussion for the Indian delegation has been making India an attractive shooting locale for filmmakers. The need of a single window for clearances and making the International Film Festival of India ( ) grander have also been deliberated upon.
The Indian delegation at Cannes – which includes Ashok Kumar Parmar, Joint Secretary (Films), I&B Ministry, CBFC chairperson  , CBFC member   and filmmakers  , Jahnu Barua and Bharat Bala – has invited international film festival organisers to attend IFFI this year, besides promoting India as a shooting destination for international filmmakers. 
 
  
    and Ashok Parmar, Joint Secretary, I&B Ministry
 
 
 
 The Indian delegation had a meeting with  , curator,   film festival, and Peter from the European Film Market of Berlinale, where Wenner suggested that India should have a single point of contact with a representative leading the discussion of collaboration for film festivals.
 Prasoon said, “There is still work to be done to develop a larger film culture in India and film festivals will play an important role in doing that.” Vani added, “We will create a single body which will work towards facilitation for film festivals, film markets, children films, archiving and documentation of Indian films.”
 
 The   (FFO), which is the single window clearance system for international film shoots in India, will now be more active. During one of the discussions, the panellists – producers Shona Urvashi, Deborah Benattar and Samir Sarkar– spoke about the loopholes that need to be addressed in single window entry system.
 It was also discussed that the film visa should also include filming documentaries and features. Currently, documentaries and features are shot using guerilla style with journalist visas, the panellists said. They also suggested that fees for crew members for foreign and local shoots be regularised. It was discussed that entertainment tax should be spent in creating film funds which should be used to encourage foreign collaborations with Indian filmmakers and in training programmes.
 
