NAGPUR: In spite of passing a resolution in its board,   ( ) has failed to hand over   amusement park land to MahaMetro on Friday. MahaMetro officials claimed that a slight delay would not hamper the construction of Metro viaduct on the park land. The park is currently closed after two students drowned in the wave pool.

 
 NIT chairman Ashwin Mudgal said that the concessionaire Haldiram Foods had sought time to dismantle its rides. “It will submit a formal letter to us, which will be forwarded to MahaMetro. If the Metro officials agree to grant some time, Haldiram’s request will be accepted. Otherwise it will be asked to wind up as soon as possible,” he added.
 
 NIT had passed the resolution terminating Haldiram’s contract on May 15. The concessionaire was informed about the decision on May 17. However, it did not start the process of dismantling the rides. One ride was however, dismantled even before the NIT decision.
 
 A MahaMetro official said that it had barricaded the portion of the park where foundation of the viaduct would be dug. “One pillar would come up in front of the park gate. We will start work on it after we get possession,” he added.
 
 While MahaMetro may get possession of the park in the coming days, the issue of compensation of Haldiram is yet to be decided. Divisional commissioner Anup Kumar will decide the amount of compensation to be paid but it is not clear whether he will also decide who will pay it. Haldiram wants a compensation of Rs162 crore for loss of business.
 
 The question of past liabilities of Haldiram is also a grey area. NIT has to refund Rs72 lakh to Haldiram for charging excess premium. Moreover, the arbitrator appointed by Nagpur bench of Bombay high court has extended Haldiram’s lease till 2025 and hence its compensation has increased.
 
 Meanwhile, city police is dragging its feet on registering an offence against Haldiram owners over the death of the students. When three labourers had died while cleaning a well in Empress Mall premises, the cops immediately registered an offence of culpable homicide. However, in this case they say that no criminal act was committed.
 
 
