LUDHIANA: The rain that lashed the city on Tuesday night and Wednesday brought the temperatures down in the city on Wednesday. The good news for the residents enjoying the pleasant weather is that   has predicted weather disturbance to remain till Thursday.

 As per Met department, 4.7 mm of rainfall was recorded in Ludhiana from 8.30pm on Tuesday to 8.30am on Wednesday. The impact of rain was visible on the temperatures as the maximum (day) temperature was recorded at 26.8 degrees Celsius, which is 6 degrees less than normal. The minimum (night) temperature in Ludhiana was recorded around normal at 16.8 degrees Celsius. Relative humidity was however recorded on the higher side at 86%, which is around 10% more than the normal. The total amount of rainfall recorded from 8.30am to 5.30pm on Wednesday was recorded at 0.3mm.
 
 While the residents are enjoying the weather in the city, the Met department has pleasant news for them on weather front.
 
 “Even as rainfall is likely to cease from Thursday, the sky is expected remain cloudy during the day. The temperatures are likely to remain around normal on Thursday as well,” said director of   department Surender Paul. However, he added that the weather is expected to get cleared after Thursday and the temperatures are expected to rise.
 
 The Met department website meanwhile predicted a gradual rise in the day temperature to 35 degrees Celsius till April 17. The minimum temperatures are expected to fall to 16 degrees Celsius till Friday, followed by a gradual rise to 19 degrees Celsius till April 17.
 
 Meanwhile, residents who were battling with hot weather till few days ago, are heaving a sigh of relief post rain.
 
 “The weather was so hot till two days ago. But, since yesterday, the conditions are quite pleasant. Rain made such an impact on the weather that we had to switch off the fans for some hours in the morning as it was quite cold. Also, after around a month, I sipped many cups of ginger tea to beat the cold in the morning,” said  , a businessman from BRS Nagar.
 
 The teenagers were happy to see the drizzle in the morning in some areas. “It was great to experience the rain after weeks of dry weather. It was very soothing to walk on the grass in the garden barefooted,” said  , an eighteen-year-old student from Model Town.
 
 
