In the latest episode of  , anchor Pradeep welcomes judges   and   into the show, who are geared up for some entertainment.

 The show is kick-started with the skit titled 'Atha Aaratam-Kodalu Poratam' turned out to be a hilarious hit with striking performances.
 
 The highlight of the episode is the entry of Mehbooba movie lead actors Akash and Neha Shetty. Akash lauds the participants to the skies and expresses his admiration for the impressive show they put up. Neha Shetty showered the kids with compliments. 
 
 Anasuya, one of the judges, was in absolute awe of the performance of the kids. She said that it was a feast to her eyes for having watched such a stellar show. Ohmkar thought of it as one of the most realistic performances he has seen in the recent past.
 
 Following this performance was the 'Hospital' skit. Anasuya described the skit ‘thought-provoking’. Anasuya added that she is proud to be judging the show. Ohmkar called it his ‘favourite’. He appreciated their performances with a special mention of the role of a 'Pregnant Lady'. The show also witnessed the performance of a skit titled '7 Wonders'.
 
 In the next episode, there were some more entertaining performances which not only impressed the judges on the show, but its audiences as well.
 
 The first performance titled ‘Tatha Prema’ geed up some spark in the show. Anasuya complimented it to be a ‘matured presentation’ from the kids. Ohmkar felt that the kids put in their best efforts into the acts and that they could not have asked for more.
 
 Next to follow was the skit 'Husabnd, Wife, Bavamaridi & Dongababa' which impressed the judges equally.
 
 The highlighted performance of the episode was the skit 'Rajamouli Intlo Dongalu'. It took Anasuya by surprise as she found the idea of the skit to be very amusing and intriguing. She lauded the performances of the kids to be very matured and entertaining. Ohmkar shared his feeling. He thought it to be one of their best acts so far. He gave a special appreciation to the kids who played the characters 'Kalakeya' and the 'Thief'.
 
 
