AJMER: Chief minister Vasundhara   started her campaign from Kekri for Ajmer bypolls on Friday.

 According to experts, the move is strategically important because Kekri is the constituency of   candidate Raghu Sharma. Besides, a large chunk of voters are Brahmins and mostly, they play a vital role in the victory of the candidate from here. 
 
 Raghu Sharma once won from this constituency. Besides, current   MLA   is also a Brahmin. Therefore, Raje’s campaigning from Kekri and meeting with leaders of Brahmin and Rajput communities sent a good message to party workers.
 
 The move to kick off the campaign from Kekri was also decided as Congress already had a plan for a road show in Kekri and, therefore, to capture the urban population, BJP planned the meetings with local community leaders. Participation in Sant Samman programme is the message that BJP still respects the religion.
 
 According to sources, the campaign is not only aimed at boosting the morale of BJP voters but also to dent the Congress party. That is the reason chief minister Vasundhara Raje paid obeisance at Devmali Temple.
 
 Devmali is the only village in north India which has no pucca construction and houses here are made of mud. Even utensils used in this village are not of metal but of mud. 
 
 This is the only village in Rajasthan where no farmer is owner of the land. He only cultivates the land but all lands are in the name of deity Devmali.
 
 Devmali Temple is an important place for Gujjar community who number about 1,90,000 in the district and, therefore, are likely to affect the results. 
 
 “Gujjars have displayed affection for Congress in the last 10 years because their former MP and PCC chief Sachin Pilot came from this community and, therefore, they have inclination towards him. Raje gave a different message to the community as she met leaders of Gujjar community and sought their blessing,” said a senior BJP source.
 
 Raje will remain in Ajmer on Saturday and during her visit to different places of the district, she will check the management and arrangement made for polling. 
 
 For Raje, winning the Ajmer bypoll is important because this was a BJP seat and Sanwar Lal Jat won this seat by a margin of 1.79 lakh votes in 2014.
 
 For Congress, winning this seat is important because this is a constituency of Sachin Pilot and by winning the bypoll Congress hopes to reclaim the lost honour.
 
 
