CHANDIGARH: Supporting the views of former Union minster   and   leader  , former city MP and Union minster   on Sunday openly lashed out at BJP in front of his supporters. Though, he did not formally announce his exit from BJP, he has raised the flag against BJP in the Chandigarh.

 Dhawan, while speaking before the gathering at his residence in the presence of Yashwant Sinha and BJP leader Shatrughan Sinha said, “Chandigarh BJP during 2014 general election had made 60 promises to the residents of Chandigarh, but none of them has been fulfilled. Thus, residents of Chandigarh are feeling cheated. Problems of Chandigarh residents are continuing and no one is there to listen to them.”
 
 Significantly, the move of   was certain, as he has been constantly sidelined by the Chandigarh BJP from past many months. Dhawan was neither being called for the meetings of the party, nor was he being invited during the arrival of senior party leaders in Chandigarh. He was not even called during the visit of BJP’s national president few months back.
 
 Later, while speaking to media, Dhawan cleared that he cannot endorse a party, which is not concerned about common public. He said the part failed to solve the core issues of the residents, for which they elected the BJP. “I, along with my workers and supporters, did my level best to get a BJP candidate elected from Chandigarh and now, people are asking that why did I do so, as they have got nothing. My recognition is not with BJP, but for the people of the Chandigarh, who stand by me through all times,” Dhawan said.
 
 However, Dhawan did not speak of leaving the party. When asked about the same, he avoided the question.
 
 Now, it will be interesting to see what the next step of BJP will be as far as their relationship with Harmohan Dhawan is concerned. Since Dhawan called both Yashwant Sinha and BJP leader Shatrughan Sinha at his residence and they all addressed the gathering and criticised the current government, it seems that city BJP is already on a path to face a political upheaval.
 
 
