GAYA: Drain effluents enter   riverbed at no less than 24 points thereby aggravating subsurface  . In several localities of the town, handpumps and submersible machines draw water with bad odour and higher mud content. For several years now, the proposal to channelize drain effluents and establish water treatment plant to treat drainwater gathers dust.

 Fed up with the insensitive approach of the   and its failure to prevent the entry of drain effluents in the riverbed, former   Municipal Corporation member Lalji Prasad has petitioned   division commissioner for early resolution of the problem.
 
 The corporation, for several years, used Falgu river for waste disposal and debris deposit. After much hue and cry made by citizen groups, waste disposal was stopped and the municipal body started using the Naili dump. But the practice of debris deposit in Falgu bed has not fully stopped.
 
 The immediate sufferers on account of waste water entrance in Falgu are the pilgrims visiting Gaya for performing pindadaan rituals. According to Prasad, the pilgrims are compelled to use muddy and unclean/impure water for offering ‘tarpan’, a pindadaan component.
 
 Prasad said he has filed the petition in the divisional commissioner's court under the Public Grievance Redressal mechanism. Indiscriminate entry of drain effluent in the river bed, particularly in the Dandibagh and some other areas, has resulted in the seepage of drain mud and resultant water pollution.
 
 Moreover, nearly one thousand illegal dwelling units have come up on either side of the Falgu river between Bodh Gaya and Gaya town. Despite HC order for the removal of encroachments from Falgu banks, but for some token action, little has been done to remove encroachments. Waste water from these houses too spills over the riverbed.
 
 The plan to produce power from the municipal waste too stands shelved. According to municipal corporation sources, a study conducted to ascertain the feasibility of the power project found that there was not enough municipal waste in the town to feed any viable power generation programme.
 
 
