Surat: In a biggest ever loot in recent times, diamonds worth over Rs 20 crore were looted from employees of a diamond firm by five unidentified persons in Katargam area of the city Wednesday evening. On being alerted cops reached the spot and cordoned off the adjoining areas. The loot took place when employees of a diamond unit were going to put the diamonds in a private safe deposit vault. Vijay Miyani, employee of Glow Star Diamond, was going to deposit diamonds worth Rs 20 crore in Katargam Safe Deposit Pvt Ltd at around 7.15 pm along with his two colleagues. They were carrying the diamonds in a bag and had left their office in a car. Due to heavy traffic on road near the safe deposit vault located close to Kiran Hospital, they parked the car on road side and got down. When they were walking towards the safe deposit vault with the bag in their hand, five persons rushed towards them and injured Miyani on face with a stun gun. “They put something like a gun on my face after which I felt electric current and severe pain. They snatched the bag with diamonds from me and escaped,” said Miyani.  A colleague of Miyani also suffered injury in the leg when one of the robber attacked him. The victim chased the robbers but they escaped on separate motorcycles. The victims told police that faces of the robbers were not covered.  They further said that the diamonds were kept in six boxes that were kept in one bag. For safety reasons Miyani and his colleagues had come in a car to keep the diamonds in safe deposit vault. It was their daily routine to withdraw and deposit the diamonds in the safe deposit vault daily.  Police have recovered CCTV footages of the spot and the entire incident has been captured on camera. “Police have got some important leads and details about it can be disclosed only after the investigation ends. Police teams are working to nab the robbers,” said Harekirshna Patel, joint commissioner of police, sector I, Surat. In March 2015, Rs two crore worth diamonds were stolen from Shree Ram Krishna Exports in Katargam unit by an employee. More recently in February, diamonds were Rs 14 lakh were looted from an angadia firm employee in Varachha.