NEW DELHI: An odd sight greeted people at New Delhi   station on Sunday. A group of volunteers, dressed in green shirts, spent the International   educating passengers on the dangers of plastic  , while a team from Safai Sena, an organised group of ragpickers, picked up garbage at the biggest railway station of the city. Hundreds of passengers also signed a pledge to say no to plastic and help keep the environment clean.

 “This year’s earth day theme is to end plastic pollution and to keep in mind the harm it causes,” said Rajat, manager from Chintan, an environment research and action group. “Throughout the day, the volunteers and ragpickers briefed people about waste segregation and how passengers can play a key role in keeping the station clean.”
 
 Student volunteers from different schools and socio-economic backgrounds also participated in the campaign.
 
 By the end of the day, the white sheets placed by the volunteers at the station were filled with colourful messages from the passengers, varying from calls to ban all forms to plastic to pledges of using the bare minimum of it.
 
 Around 200kg of plastic waste was collected from New Delhi Railway Station by the Safai Sena workers. The waste was taken to a material recovery facility at Platform 16 where it was segregated into various categories like paper, cardboard, tetrapacks, foil, etc. 
 
 The segregated waste was then be sold to authorised recyclers. 
 
 A compost pit was also been created for the organic waste dumped at the station. “Essentially, no waste was sent to landfills,” said Kanhaiya, a waste picker.
 
 Every month, over 20 tonnes of waste is collected from across the four railway stations in Delhi by nearly 100 waste pickers. It is segregated, recycled and reused. “Most people do not think about where the plastic goes once they’ve disposed of it. Earth day is dedicated to fundamentally change human attitude and behaviour around plastics,” said Chitra Mukherjee, head of operations at Chintan.
 
 
