BAREILLY : On Sunday, Sambhal police got a major breakthrough, arresting four accused, including two women, in the matter of murder of a woman and her son whose headless bodies were found in Chimyavali village on March 18.
 
  The bodies were identified as those of Mamta alias Shahin, 35, and her 10-year-old son Karan alias Sameer. Their heads were found later on April 1 and April 8, respectively from two different locations in the area.
  
  Police said that the accused  , with whom Shahin had been living with her two children for the past year, wanted to get rid of her after he had married another woman, Armana around six months ago. Shahin was six months pregnant when she was murdered, said police.
  
  According to police officers, Armana had told her husband that she would not live with him until Mamta and her kids were killed.
  
  Briefing the media, additional director general (ADG) of Bareilly zone, Prem Prakash said, “On March 18, chowkidar Ram Ratan of Chimyavali village informed police about the headless bodies, following that we constituted 12 teams, initiating search operations to nab the accused. On Sunday morning, we got a tip-off, following which we arrested the four accused from   bus stand. One of their accomplices is still at large.”
  
  Prakash said that one Kallu, a resident of Chimyavali village who had been a history sheeter, had got his daughter Armana married to Wasim around six months ago.
  
  “Before this, Wasim had come in contact with Shahin in   where he was an auto-rickshaw driver. He lived there next to Shahin’s house. He had brought her and her two kids around one year ago to Sambhal and started living with him. We have rescued Shahin’s daughter   alias Zainab from their house. She has been handed over to child welfare society,” Prakash added.
  
  Police said that they have also recovered two sharp-edged weapons used in beheading the victim. Besides, they also recovered the Adhaar card and identity card of boy for his school in Ghaziabad.
  
  Superintendent of police (SP) of Sambhal, Ravi Shankar Chhabi said, “The other two arrested accused are Kallu and his wife Shufia, who were Armana’s parents.”
  
  Chhabi said, “After search operations from Moradabad to Ghaziabad did not turn up anything, we changed our line of inquiry and focused on the village where the bodies were found. We discovered that something had happened at Kallu’s residence, which he had hidden from the villagers. After interrogations, they confessed to the crime.”
  
  “We have been told that Mamta alias Shahin had started offering namaz. However, it is yet to be established whether they had converted or not. Earlier, she had married to Chhatrapal of   district and later to one Sunil and had been living with him in Ghaziabad before she started living with Wahid. Sunil is the father of both her children,” the SP added.
