CHENNAI: “The word ‘taboo’ comes from the Polynesian word ‘tapua’ which means menstrual blood. Ever since I chanced upon this trivia, I felt it summed up everything I aspired to do around this subject,” says Jaipur-based artist Lyla Freechild who, since she started using the menstrual cup in 2014, began viewing her menstrual blood in a whole new light and was inspired to paint with it.

 Lyla will be one of the 24 artists from India and abroad who will contribute to a travelling exhibition put together by   for World Menstrual Day on May 28. This is the second year that Boondh, an enterprise that promotes sustainable menstrual health practices across socio-economic strata, will bring to Chennai its two-part exhibition, The Crimson Wave – artwork created using various mediums, and themed around menstruation; and Erthyrian – a series of paintings created using menstrual blood.
 
 “Seeing my menstrual fluid in the cup, instead of a pad, I could almost visualise how it cushioned the fetus, flowed through the body. I started experimenting with it on canvas and paper,” says Lyla. 
 
 Artists have been increasingly finding the impetus to create powerful work around the subject, more so as campaigns to combat discrimination against menstruation in India emerged around issues like Rupi Kaur’s period-themed Instagram series being taken down and the ban on entry of menstruating women into Sabarimala temple.
 
  is an SBI Youth for India Fellow and the founder of a rural design studio in the tribal villages of Lobhi and Chikhala in Bhandara district, Maharashtra. As he spent months teaching children and imparting hands-on training to the women to create commercially viable products, Prakash saw that young girls and women ended up staying home when they got their cycles, and more disturbingly, withdrew when discussions were initiated about healthy menstrual practices. And so, when Boondh put up an open call for its exhibition last year, Prakash immediately signed up and got down to creating a painting he believed resonated with his love for Kerala murals and his passion for advocacy on menstrual hygiene and awareness. “On a macro level, art on the subject will initiate dialogue on menstruation. On a community level, we bring in more female volunteers to interact with women and girls on healthy and sustainable menstrual options, so that they open up freely,” says Prakash. 
 
 In an attempt to spread awareness about its benefits and use, last year Lyla created an installation and earrings out of menstrual cups and displayed them in public spaces such as the Jaipur Literature Festival and the   mela grounds in Faridabad. “It drew both positive and critical responses, but I feel it’s a job well done as long as discussions open and ensue,” feels Lyla, who has sold digital prints of her paintings to clients globally.
 
 Sneha Rooh, who runs Orikalankini an organisation that aims to change narratives around menstruation, has compiled art work created with menstrual blood from around the world and even performed American journalist and activist Gloria Steinem’s essay, ‘If men could menstruate’ at several such discussion platforms. “Our idea has been to take the conversation around menstruation into art galleries and also observe what art made of menstrual blood brings out in liberal feminists,” she says. At its core, can art change the way the subject is perceived? “All change begins with public spaces that can enable dialogue,” says Sonal Jain, co-founder, Boondh. “For instance, there’s one painting of a woman who has hit menopause, sitting naked on the beach and watching the horizon. I overheard a woman visitor telling her friend how she would love to replicate the scene in the painting in her own life, as it reflected a reality without restrictions,” she adds.
 
 
