NEW DELHI: With the foundation work almost complete at ITO  , significant progress has been made on the structure connecting Tilak Marg and Mathura Road.   officials said that around 30% of the work for the project — touted as Delhi’s longest foot overbridge — is now complete and the new deadline has been fixed for June-end.

 
 As per the announcement by Union urban development minister   during the foundation-laying ceremony, the project was initially supposed to have been completed in March but the officials argued that the agreement signed with the contractor specified a June deadline.
 
  
 Also, PWD had been finding it difficult to mould the high-grade steel meant for the frame of the skywalk into special 300mm rings. But that has been sorted out now, and the pre-fabricated giant steel rings have started arriving at the site. “Once the platforms are made, the assembling of the pre-fabricated parts won’t take much time so we are sticking to the June deadline,” said a senior Public Works Department official. 
 
  
 
 Though the plan to construct a skywalk was conceived in 2003, the project was finalised only in April 2016. After talking necessary approval from Unified Traffic and Transportation Infrastructure (Planning & Engineering) Centre (UTTIPEC) and Delhi Urban Arts Commission, PWD had floated tenders and the construction started by November 2017.
 
  
  Another difficulty, officials said, was in shifting the underground utilities. “ITO is one of the most congested areas in Delhi. It has a large number of government and private offices, institutions, etc. With the opening of the metro station here, the pedestrian movement has increased,” said a PWD official.
 
  
 
 When finished, the skywalk will be 570 metres long and help ease pedestrian movement along Mathura Road, Tilak Marg, Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg and Sikandra Road. It would have a network connecting seven entry/exit points on different roads. The stretches are crossed by over 30-40,000 pedestrians every day.
 
  
 
 “Currently, there is only one FOB near the police headquarters and the metro station also provides another route to cross this road. Using the skywalk, pedestrians will be able to seamlessly cross the roads. Metro users will benefit from this skywalk as one of the openings is located right next to Pragati Maidan station,” said the official.
 
 The skywalk, starting at Pragati Maidan metro station, will have three arms. While one of them will turn left and drop down at Pragati Maidan’s gate number 9, the second arm will open at the   crossing. The third arm will go under the metro line and take pedestrians to the entry of the Tilak Lane railway station.
 
 PWD has planned space for cafes, canopies and common areas on the skywalk. Officials, however, said while the space would be kept aside for cafes, whether these could be made operational would be decided later.
 
  Additionally, an FOB will also be constructed on Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg near Hans Bhawan. The initial estimate of the overall project cost of the skywalk is around Rs 45 crore but to achieve the May deadline, officials will have to work round the clock. “The difficult part is over. We will now start assembling the pre-fabricated parts,” an official said, arguing that the deadline was still achievable.
 
 
