KOLKATA: The state CID, probing the gold extortion case, is set to search two bank lockers belonging to one of the accused and former   SP   on Tuesday. 

 A Ghatal court gave the go-ahead to CID’s plea on February 16. The court directed the state investigating team to open the lockers in presence of Ghosh’s representatives. Ghosh’s lawyer Pinaki Bhattacharya said that the court allowed the CID to break open the lockers only if representatives of the accused are not available during the search.
 
 On getting the search notice from CID, Bharati’s husband   made an application to Netajinagar police station to allow him to make it to the bank during the search because   has two lockers at UCO Bank’s Southern Avenue branch. 
 
 “MAV Raju was granted interim bail by the Alipore court till March 15 on condition that he won’t leave the Netajinagar police station area. The CID notice will require Raju to move out of the Netajinagar PS area. Raju made his application to the Netajinagar Police on Monday,” the lawyer said.
 
 The CID search operation is a sequel to an extortion complaint made by Chandan Majhi of   against few police officers in West Midnapore, including Ghosh. A West Midnapore officer recounted that complainant Das was the motor transport officer of Jhargram district then and Ghosh was in additional charge of Jhargram.
 
 From an undisclosed location, Ghosh objected to CID’s search bid. “It is ridiculous that CID is raiding residences of police officers and confiscating gold and cash based on a complaint from a noodle vendor that some police officers took away 375 gm of gold from him and didn’t return the yellow metal. It didn’t occur to state investigators how the noodle vendor acquired the gold or ask him about his source of money. Instead, they are after me when I declared my assets to the government way back in 1994 before I joined police service. I come from a landlord family and my father gave 75 tollas of gold during my wedding. I have made a mention of it in my IT declarations as well. Yet, the ruling party and the government are after me,” Ghosh said.
 
 
