KOLKATA: Around six months before it files the final charge sheet in the   muddle, the Central Bureau of Investigation has got hold of the call records of Ponzi firm boss Sudipta Sen and his aide Debjani  . These records, which the agency collected from the SIT formed by the state for this investigation, will be crucial in reconstructing the case.

 
 The call records gained significance after former Trinamool MP Kunal Ghosh claimed in his 81-page tell-all letter to central investigating agencies that a police officer posted in West Midnapore began tracking both Sen and Mukherjee’s calls on the instruction of a political leader. He also alleged that he was privy to conversations that made him believe police had been following them all along before the two were arrested from a hotel at Sonmarg in Kashmir.
 
 According to a source, after the two had left Kolkata, Sen had asked Mukherjee to deliver letters to some officials in Delhi on April 12, 2013. She took a late-morning flight that day to Delhi and met Sen and his aide, Arvind Chauhan. Mukherjee and Sen checked into a guesthouse at Vikas Puri that night and left for Dehradun the next day.
 
 Meanwhile, Sen allegedly asked his men in Kolkata to pay some of the Saradha officials and delay certain transactions. On April 15, 2013, Sen, Mukherjee and Chauhan left for Haridwar and then headed for Corbett National Park. The next stop for the trio was   in Uttarakhand, where they halted for a brief while, apparently to take a crucial decision. According to sources, Mukherjee told investigators that they decided to go to Nepal from there. On April 18, she called her mother from a PCO in Nepal and learnt that things had turned worse in Kolkata.
 
 But they did not stay there for long as she wanted to return to India and they moved back to   in Uttar Pradesh. Sen allegedly called up his lawyer from there and came to know that arrest warrants have been issued against them. Mukherjee was not willing to be part of this cat-and-mouse game any more but Sen would not let her go back to Kolkata, sources said. Sen reportedly wanted to go to Ladakh via Rohtang Pass but the plan was changed again, and they travelled to Jammu instead.
 
