Chennai: Tamil Nadu governor Banwarilal Purohit on Monday said in the assembly that he was confident that the state government would provide governance par excellence, formulate sound policies and implement programmes for economic prosperity and social equity. Purohit’s speech was interrupted by the main opposition, the DMK, which faulted the governor for not forcing the minority EPS-OPS government to prove its majority in the House.

 In his 50-minute speech, the governor thanked the Centre for its support to deep sea fishing, inter-linking of rivers to divert surplus from Godavari to Cauvery and housing for all scheme. “The smart cities and AMRUT schemes are being implemented with full fervour,” he said. Incidentally, a recent Rajya Sabha report found the state lagging miserably in the execution of smart city programme, with just 1% being spent in 2016. The Centre has released so far Rs 828 crore and Rs 951 crore for smart cities and AMRUT schemes respectively.
 
 Purohit patted the EPS regime for its performance under various heads, including ranking high in all human development indicators and firmly keeping communal, extremist and religious fundamentalist forces at bay, besides the active participation of people in Modi’s Swachh Bharat Mission. Two-wheeler scheme for women would be launched shortly, for which government subsidy ceiling limit has been enhanced to Rs 25,000 from Rs 20,000 announced earlier. “This government is unwavering in its commitment to the goals and objectives set in TN vision 2023 document, which is a proud legacy left by late chief minister J Jayalalithaa as a pointer to guide the government,” the governor said, evoking loud thumping of desks. First-time MLA and rebel AIADMK leader TTV Dhinakaran, seated among the opposition, took note of this.
 
 Minutes after eight Congress MLAs chose to boycott his speech demanding that the Centre declare cyclone Ockhi as a national disaster, the governor took time to thank Modi for visiting the coastal district of Kanyakumari and releasing Rs 133 crore from NDRF. “This government is committed to continuing the rescue operations till the last fisherman is rescued,” Purohit said while urging the Centre to sanction Rs 401 crore for temporary restoration and Rs 4,854 crore for permanent restoration. On the infrastructure front, the governor requested the Centre to accord early approval for phase II of the Chennai Metro Rail project to cover 107.5km, and bring in necessary amendments to the National Medical Commission Bill, which is likely to have a huge impact on the health sector.
 
 He unveiled the plans of the EPS government, including setting a goal to augment its power generation capacity with an addition of 13,000MW of thermal power plants. Work for installing an additional 6,200MW is underway. Legislation will be brought in to enable levy of shelter charges to provide housing to the urban poor, besides Business Facilitation Bill to improve ease of doing business. While the opposition is taking a dig at the government for the poor industrial climate, Purohit said that out of Rs 2.42 lakh crore investment commitment made in the global investors’ meet in 2015, 61 projects costing Rs 62,738 crore were under implementation.
 
 
