CHANDIGARH: The suggestion of railway minister Piyush Goyal to cut down the journey time on the narrow gauge   track from five hours to three hours is not possible until the sharp curves on the section are removed, according to experts.

 At present, the permissible   on the section is 22kmph to 24kmph and 8kmph at some tunnels and curves.
 
 The minister during a meeting of the railway board had asked officials to find out the possibility of cutting down the journey time. Recently, he had assured Himachal Pradesh chief minister   of all possible support in reducing the speed and increasing the frequency of the trains on the line. However, Dinesh Sharma, Ambala divisional railway manager, said the railways would have to seek technical solutions to cut down the speed and with present infrastructure, this was not possible. He said the ministry had in the past too sought inputs on the issue, but the division has no role in solving technical issues.
 
 Experts said the project cannot be successful as two trials conducted in the past had flopped. Records revealed that a trial was conducted to increase the speed to 30kmph in 2014. Rohtash Sharma, a retired senior section engineer from   who was part of the team that conducted the trial, said a modified trolley was used to check the feasibility. The team found that the movement of the wheels, especially on sharp curves, was not proper, making the ride risky. He said they had stated in their report that increasing the speed was not feasible.
 
 The higher authorities had then suggested to shift to air brake engines from vacuum brakes to increase the speed. A rake of seven coaches was designed by the division for the trial run, but the trial was only conducted in the yard. The seven rakes are lying defunct at the yard of the station since 2014.
 
 Vinay  , retired Kalka station superintendent who was member of the team, said the trial was conducted in the yard only because a train had then derailed on the section in which two foreigners had died. He said after the accident the idea of increasing the speed on this section was dropped.
 
 R K Dutta, former station superintendent, Kalka, said there is a ruling gradient on this section and a large number of curves it impossible to increase the speed. He said the railways has two options if it wants to increase the speed —to make the section track straight so that rakes can move properly and have special trolleys for this section.
 
 Past Accidents
 
 September 12, 2015 | Two women passengers were killed and 10 others injured after two bogies of a Kalka-Shimla chartered train derailed near  . All 37 passengers were British nationals. The inquiry report found that the speedometer was not functional due to which the driver fail to judge the train was overspeeding
 
 September 21, 2015 | The engine was detached from coaches of Himalayan Queen train. A report said as the train was running at permissible speed of 8 kmph, the coaches did not derail
 
 
