SHIMLA: With Shimla grappling with issues of garbage dumps and acute water scarcity, the BJP-led municipal corporation, which is responsible for maintaining cleanliness and drinking water supply, has drawn flak from every quarter. Besides the opposition, even a few BJP councillors are questioning the performance of mayor Kusum Sadrate. BJP captured power in the MC for the first time last year, but failed to deliver on the promises made to residents.

 Strike of workers engaged by SEHB (Shimla Environment, Heritage Conservation and Beautification) Society for door-to-door collection and disposal of garbage has left the tourist town stinking. As the MC failed to resolve the deadlock, the high court directed workers to resume their duties. The protesters however, decided to apprise the court of their stand before doing so. 
 
 On Saturday, a few councillors demanded the mayor’s resignation for failing to maintain cleanliness in the town and ensuring adequate and daily supply of water to residents. A few   councillors, along with a BJP councillor arrived at the mayor’s office on Saturday and found her absent. Agitated, they said if the mayor is not able to address issues which concern the town, she should resign.
 
 Congress councillor from   ward,   said it was known that Shimla would face water shortage due to scanty rainfall and even then the MC failed to take required measures to ensure alternate sources to meet demand. “In many areas, water is being supplied after a week even though BJP promised 24-hour water supply,” she said. She also maintained that the intervention of the high court in the issue of garbage collectors’ strike shows that the mayor has failed to fulfill her responsibilities. 
 
 President, Shimla Nagrik Sabha Vijender Mehra said the BJP-ruled municipal corporation has failed to do its job properly, which is evident from the fact that the high court had to intervene in ensuring cleanliness of the hill town. Shimla has become a dumping ground with garbage collectors on strike and residents struggling to get drinking water for days together, Mehra said, adding that they woud launch an agitation if the problem was not resolved at the earliest. 
 
 
