Mumbai: The Delhi high court on Friday directed ITC to suspend its advertising campaign "#SayNoToConcentrate" and remove all references to rival PepsiCo's   brand. ITC had launched a disruptive campaign "#SayNoToConcentrate" for its packaged juice brand B Natural, which met with an equally stern legal action by rival   that dragged the diversified hotels-to-FMCG group to court. 

 Deepika Warrier, vice-president (nutrition), PepsiCo India, told TOI, "The court has directed ITC to suspend the advertising campaign... as it is derogatory to the category of concentrate juices. ITC has been asked to take steps for removal of their campaign from all hoardings, electronic media and print media." 
 
 The court has asked ITC to return with a revised ad campaign on Monday. ITC has also been asked to cancel an event in relation to the campaign that was scheduled to be held in Mumbai on Monday. ITC declined to comment, saying the matter is sub judice.
 
 According to sources, being a new player, B Natural's positioning of "not from concentrate" could redefine the packaged juices market. The brand was launched as a 'concentrate free' juice last year. PepsiCo India, however, believes there is no significant difference between 'from concentrate' and 'not from concentrate' juices. 
 
 Warrier said, "We have been offering choices of 'not from concentrate' and 'from concentrate' juices to consumers in India for more than a decade." 
 
  According to brand expert Harish Bijoor, who founded Harish Bijoor Consults, the idea behind such ad campaigns is to create high resonance value even if it is for a short period of time. 
 
  "Marketing companies know it will not be allowed for long, but that four-five days exposure is good enough for them to create an impact. Usually, the communication is so deep that by the time the competitor reacts, it's too late. I call it marketing warfare," said Bijoor. 
 
 The trend was visible when  's Saffola oats trained its guns on a rival category by claiming instant noodles are deep fried. Last year, Amul was restrained from airing an ad in which it claimed that while Amul's "ice cream" was made with "real milk", "frozen desserts" contained "vanaspati oil". 
 
 
