TV viewers can finally heave a sigh of relief. Breaking the stereotypical saas-bahu sagas and supernatural thrillers on the small screen is   and   starrer,  , which premiered on March 19. The show comes as a breath of fresh air and attempts at a new story filled with mystery and romance. It centers around the theme of love, lust, and infidelity, something that Indian television show makers usually refrain from venturing into.

 The show has neatly contrasted characters. On one hand, we have   (Jennifer Winget) and her blind faith in love, which has no space for doubt or suspicion. Preferring a life in the hills away from the city, she is smitten by her husband, Yash (Sehban Azim), of five years. However, the latter seems disengaged with his wife as she showers her affection on him, a day before their wedding anniversary. 
 
 On the other hand,   (Harshad Chopda) is forgetful. He doesn't remember his wife Pooja's ( ) birthday, something she has gotten used to. He is shown to be a lot more playful and fun. They live in Mumbai. However, what makes Zoya and Aditya alike is their belief in fierce loyalty in relationships. 
 
 Subtle hints of Zoya and Aditya's spouses being unfaithful is shown in the story through a ring that Zoya accidentally finds in Yash's cupboard, which doesn't fit her, and a secret diary that Pooja doesn't let Aditya read. It is interesting to see how destiny plays its part when Zoya and Aditya meet at a store and select the same gramophone for Yash and Pooja.
 
  
  
 In no time, tragedy strikes in their world as Zoya and Aditya's partners die in a car crash. At the end of the first episode, many questions remain unanswered. Yash and Pooja's hands are held together as they lie dead which makes Aditya suspicious and Zoya baffled. Also, there is a mystery around Aditya’s cold attitude towards his father, Mr. Hooda and Zoya's father, who disapproves of her marriage.
 
 The show moves from one scene to another swiftly. The two narratives interwoven in the plot are well-executed. While the theme of love is brought to the fore through incidents like Zoya's making a pottery heart for Yash, and her selecting the same gramophone as Aditya at a store in Mussorie, infidelity is shown through nuances in Pooja and Yash's expressions when they are with their partners, and also through their dialogues.
 
 The show uses contemporary language that most would relate to. Dialogues also play an important part in the conversation between the lead pairs as they hint at what is in store.
 
 After playing Maya in Beyhadh, Jennifer outshines in her role of Zoya Siddiqui. Right from her expressions to her look on the show, she is in sync with her character. Harshad Chopda is a complete natural and plays his part effortlessly. Even Sehban Azim and Namita Dubey do justice to their roles. Thankfully the costumes are modern-day, without any excess drama. 
  
 While there is everything that works in the favour of the show, the set, especially Aditya and Pooja's house, looks artificial Even the plane sequence doesn't look real. But these are minor hiccups in an otherwise brilliant show. Bepannaah wins as it is a far cry from what Indian television is (in)famous for. 
 
