LUCKNOW: Close on the heels of a delegation of six Muslims meeting Art Of Living (AOL) founder Sri Sri Ravi Shankar in Bengaluru to find an out-of-court settlement for the Ayodhya dispute, a second round of talks involving Hindu and Muslim representatives is likely to be held in Ayodhya on February 20. The Muslim delegation had met the AOL founder on February 8. 

  The director of the Lucknow-based Centre for Objective Research and Development (CORD),  , who along with All India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB) executive member Maulana Salman Hussaini Nadwi led a delegation to Bengaluru, told TOI that Sri Sri had urged for a meeting of both sides in Ayodhya on February 20. "Maulana Nadwi is currently in Hyderabad and expected to return on February 12. We will then sit and discuss the availability of all the important stakeholders in the dispute and see if a meeting is possible in Ayodhya on the specified date. We will try to bring together prominent clerics representing all factions of Islam for the meet with Hindu organisations," said Husain. 
 
 Talking about Sri Sri's formula, Husain said, "It was discussed to shift the mosque to some other spot in Faizabad, but in return for a guarantee that all the other 400 mosques in India on the list of Hindu organisations should be safe and claims on them withdrawn. These include the contentious Varanasi and Mathura sites. We also asked for a strong law for it, compensation for victims of the post-Babri-demolition riots and quick judgment and action in the   conspiracy case." 
 
 Incidentally, Maulana Nadwi had also spoken about shifting the Babri masjid from the disputed site in lieu of the Hindu side not staking claim to the site of any other Muslim place of worship. Nadwi was criticised for his statement by other AIMPLB members at the board's ongoing meeting in Hyderabad.
 
 Husain, who has been coordinating between Sri Sri and Maulana Nadwi, said, "Even if the court order is in favour of Muslims, it will be practically impossible to offer namaz on the premises in such a communally-charged atmosphere. AIMPLB is an organisation much like VHP that has no actual say in the matter, and only the stakeholders can decide. When an outfit like Karni Sena can rock the nation even after the Supreme Court's verdict, what more can be said about current circumstances?" 
 
 U P Sunni Central Waqf Board chair   was also part of the Bengaluru talks. "The board is in court for the title suit but if negotiations are to be held with both sides at a place, the board is ready to be part of such discussions," he had said . 
 
