HYDERABAD: There appears to be no respite in sight for locals of  , from the persistent drinking water crisis that’s been looming large over this densely populated residential-cum-commercial area, located behind   in the  , for decades now.

 In the chilling winter, residents say, women are forced to fetch water from nearby hand pumps or cough up extra bucks to buy water cans.
 
 While a borewell had been dug, to meet the drinking water needs of the area, long time ago, locals rue that still have no proper water connection. This despite of repeated complaints registered with the authorities.
 
 Among those affected is  , a 55-year-old who has been spending ₹60 for two cans of water every day, for the last eight months. “We have been buying these water cans because people throng near the hand pump to draw water every morning and at my age it is difficult to stand in that queue,” said Pasha. Pointing out how others living in the area share his plight, Pasha added, “This is not the first time that we are faced with this crisis. This has been going on for years. If this is the situation during the winter, imagine how it will be be during the summers months.”
 
  
 Garment shop owners from Urdu Galli, T Sunil Kumar and Mohammad Saleem, also had similar tales — about the acute scarcity of drinking water — to share. They said how despite tall claims by the government, there has been no attempt made by any authority to resolve this problem in their area.
 
 “Though we have registered multiple complaints with the authorities, no official has so far had the time to come and inspect the situation here,” said Sunil Kumar.
 
 When contacted,  , general manager of the   (HMWSSB), however, made light of the matter and said, “May be in all these years they not have felt the need for a water connection. We will give them a connection if they apply for it”. He further claimed, “There is no other problem. There is a drinking water lane for that area but if they need a connection, the residents will have to consult the water board manager and apply for the same.”
 
 
 
 
