MUMBAI: Two weeks after the state rejected a top telecom executive's plea to receive a kidney from his 'nephew' citing economic disparity suspecting that they were not related, the 64-year-old applicant on Saturday said he is being "unfairly punished for his affluence". The Navi Mumbai resident, who suffered kidney failure six months ago, said the state's transplant committee was overly paranoid. 

 The recipient, who didn't wish to be identified, told TOI that the state's organ transplant committee cannot take away his right to live just because his financial condition was better than that of his 51-year-old nephew, who has volunteered to donate a kidney "out of love". "The state is denying me a life-saving therapy only because I earn more than my nephew. Does the law say a poor individual can't donate an organ to someone well-off from his family?" 
 
 On March 9, his application for an unrelated organ transplant was turned down by the state's authorization committee after interviews with the prospective recipient, the donor and their wives at   couldn't convince officials that they were related. To add fuel to their suspicions, the department received an email three days later saying the executive, who earned 82lakh per year, was trying to buy a kidney from a Gujarat resident. The Gujarat man worked as a security officer in Vadodara earning 2 lakh per year. Also, they could not produce a single family photograph to establish their relationship. 
 
 The executive said, "We don't belong to a generation where we click pictures every time we meet. But if it was emphasised, we would have searched for one everywhere," he said. The executive said his sons, aged 35 and 37, residents of Canada and US respectively, refused to donate due to "professional reasons", while his 61-year-old wife couldn't as she was a diabetic.
 
 While such cases face rejection without much debate, a matching HLA report (human leukocyte antigen testing done to find if the tissue types of two individuals are immunologically compatible) put the officials in a quandary. When TOI contacted the "nephew", he said the executive was his maternal uncle. "My uncle has always looked after my family. He even found me jobs. When he approached us with a request to save his life, I agreed. I am aware that post organ donation, my life could change," he said. 
 
 The emotional appeal may not be enough to prevent an inter-state investigation. State nodal officer Dr Gauri Rathod had earlier said that a request had been sent to Gujarat officials to check the authenticity of the documents. "HLA match between strangers is rare and we will be scrutinizing it," she said. The executive said he wouldn't hesitate to undergo a DNA test if it means getting the approval to undergo a transplant that will save him the pain of dialysis twice a week.
 
 
