BARWANI: Bharatiya Janata Party’s candidate   was elected   as president of   municipality council after six presidential candidates withdrew their names for the post on Saturday. Also, 11 other   councillors were elected unopposed on the last day of withdrawal of nomination.

 It is for the third consecutive time a BJP candidate has been elected as president of Sendhwa municipality council. Sendhwa SDM and election officer Shivam Verma said, BJP's candidate Basanti Yadav has been elected unopposed due to withdrawal of names by six presidential candidates for the upcoming civic body elections on January 17.
 
 He said that due to the withdrawal of names by candidates from 11 wards, BJP councillors were also elected unopposed.
 
 In two wards of Barwani municipality council, a Congress and a BJP candidate were declared uncontested. Apart from this, one candidate has been declared unopposed in five other Nagar Parishad in Anjad, Rajpur, Khetia, Pansamal and Palsud.
 
 Yadav was a Congress councillor in the past but her family had joined BJP in the presence of BJP state president Nandkumar Singh Chauhan last year. Several criminal cases are pending against her two sons, Sanjay Yadav and Jitendra Yadav, including a case of firing in the court room of Sendhwa recently.
 
 Congress district president Sukhlal Parmar alleged that BJP used muscle power in Sendhwa, which led to withdrawal of names by Congress candidates.
 
 Taking a dig at Parmar, BJP district president Om Khandelwal told TOI, “The Congress is frustrated with its defeat and is making misleading allegations.” The election officer had repeatedly asked the Congress presidential candidate whether there is any pressure on her because of which she is withdrawing the name but she denied it and voluntarily withdrew her name, he added.
 
 Seven office bearers of Congress resigned to protest against declaration of Laxman Chauhan as a candidate for the post of Barwani municipal president. On the other hand, BJP dissidents in Pansamal staged protest on the selection of candidates. They took out rally and shouted slogans against BJP district, block and mandal presidents.
 
 The civic body elections in two municipal councils and five Nagar Parishad in the district will be conducted on January 17. 
 
 
