SURAT: A British national, who graduated from the   and served important posts as civil servant of the United Kingdom for over 22 years, has returned to his roots to spread the message of Article 51A of Indian Constitution, which lists out fundamental duties to be performed by each citizen.

 Hiten Patel, who calls himself ‘Bharatvasi On Duty’ (BonD), will begin a reverse   march on March 12 from Dandi to   to spread the message of Article 51A among the denizens. 
 
 Patel took voluntary retirement in 2013 from the UK government. He last served as first secretary at the British High Commission, New Delhi, representing the UK government in   and Asia Pacific region.
 
 “I lived in the UK for over 30 years. At the age of 50, I thought of taking voluntary retirement and came back to India to do my duty for the nation. I am surprised, not many in the country know about Article 51A and the duties enlisted therein. I have taken up the campaign to spread awareness among youngsters to take up the responsibility for national duties through the reverse Dandi march (from Dandi to Sabarmati Ashram),” said Hiten, who has dedicated himself for the national cause.
 
 “My dream is to see India as a great nation. I have been to around 43 countries and was amazed to see how people actively participate in duties towards their nation. India still has indiscipline, traffic chaos, women safety issues, scams, filth etc. I hope this humble beginning of BonD will make them aware about the need to take up their responsibility to fulfill the national duties,” Hiten added.
 
 Hiten will be visiting 40 villages during his march from Dandi to Sabarmati Ashram. He will start his journey on foot from Dandi on March 12 to reach Sabarmati Ashram on April 1. 
 
 “I will be carrying the copies of Article 51A and will have stopover meetings in the villages, where people would be requested to take a pledge for fulfilling the national duties and in bringing out the true identity of Indian culture, heritage, calm and harmony,” Hiten said.
 
 “Youngsters are pretty keen and they have a larger role to play in shaping the society of the future. I am explaining to the youngsters by visiting schools and colleges on the national role they could play and save the image of the country, which is tarnished,” Hiten added.
 
 
