Corruption was so rampant in the MGNREGS that the Union government had started keeping a close surveillance in the implementation of the scheme for the past few years in Tamil Nadu. The Social Audit Society of   (SASTA), a central government appointed authority, had unearthed irregularities and recovered several crores in the past one year alone from all districts in the state. In Coimbatore alone, in the past two years, more than `60 lakh was recovered from officials after social audits were conducted.

 A state government official said `7 crore was recovered from across the state last year alone. The sum pertained to wages paid to workers who did not work as well as money purportedly spent on work.
 
 "Whenever we go for audits, we find issues such as fake job cards, employee salary withdrawn for work not undertaken and salary credited to workers who did not take part in any work. We recover the wages from the individuals. In Sulur block, at Muthugoundepudur, I found fake cards, and salaries were paid for workers who did not work. We recovered `24,000 last April," said one of the auditors involved in the process of weeding out irregularities.
 
 As per the website of MGNREGS, in 2017-2018, of the 2,625 gram panchayats audited in Tamil Nadu, in 624 panchayats wage slips were not provided to people. Also, in 16 gram panchayats, muster rolls were not maintained. In 354 gram panchayats, there was no process to register demands and give receipts.
 
 A report in the website said 8,477 individuals were found to have been paid without working, which is the highest in the country last year. A distant next in this category was   that had 1,788 complaints.
 
 SASTA has been undertaking audits for the past few years after a surge in complaints. They visit the villages, meet the beneficiaries, go through the records and detect irregularities, if any. Members of this body, when contacted by TOI, said there was not a single village in Tamil Nadu where the scheme was implemented properly. 
 
 State government officials in the rural development department said they had conducted various inspections at villages in Madurai, Trichy, Dindigul and   districts and found a lot of irregularities.
 
 
