AHMEDABAD: Torrent Power Limited (TPL) is all set to power up Dholera Special Investment Region (DSIR) as Gujarat Electricity Regulatory Commission ( ) has in-principally decided to grant a power distribution licence to the company to supply electricity to the DSIR. Apart from TPL, Adani Group and   have also evinced interest in providing power to the   — a greenfield industrial city taking shape some 100kms from Ahmedabad.

 
  In its recent oral order on TPL’s application to set up, operate and maintain the electricity distribution system within the special investment region in Dholera, GERC stated, “The applicant (TPL) fulfils the criteria laid down for granting distribution licence in the Dholera SIR area. We, therefore, propose to issue a distribution licence to the applicant for the DSIR area.”
 
 The state regulator has also invited suggestions and objections from the public to its intention to grant licence to TPL. The commission will take a final call after hearing suggestions and objections on May 18.
 
 Post issuance of the distribution licence, TPL will have to create transmission and distribution system within DSIR. “Torrent will be able to supply power to new industrial, commercial and residential units that will come up in the DSIR. However, the state-run power companies will continue to provide power to already inhabited villages in the area,” said sources. The TPL’s move is seen as a strategic one for the company’s future growth. Torrent distributes power in Ahmedabad, Gandhinagar, Surat and Dahej SEZ in Gujarat, Bhiwandi in Maharashtra and Agra in Uttar Pradesh.
 
 Torrent, however, is not alone in the race for supplying electricity to the DSIR. MPSEZ Utilities Private Ltd, an Adani group company, has approached GERC with an application seeking distribution licence for the DSIR. GERC is yet to decide on the application as the state regulator has sought some documents from the applicant company.
 
 “Tata Power Limited, too, has shown interest in power distribution in DSIR but the company is yet to make a formal application to the state power regulator,” said sources in GERC. According to the provisions of the Electricity Act 2003, the commission is empowered to grant distribution licence to two or more entities in the same area of distribution.
 
