GHAZIABAD: The  , who survived an   in   on Tuesday along with three others, continues to be critical, his father said on Wednesday. She is currently under treatment in Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital. However, there no arrests have been made in the case yet.

 Two men on a bike threw acid on the woman while she was travelling in a shared auto on the busy   on Tuesday morning. Two other women — Ansu, a 20-year-old, and Kamla, 45, both seated close to her — suffered collateral damage. Anil Tyagi, 40, another passenger seated next to the driver, also sustained burns in the attack.
 
 “Doctors at Safdarjung hospital have told us that my daughter is critical and a call will be taken on whether she needs surgery only after the burn injuries are healed,” the girl’s father told TOI.
 
 The insurance executive, who operated from a Punjab National Bank branch with which her company has a tie-up, was shifted to Safdarjung hospital Tuesday itself. Doctors at Ghaziabad’s Narendra Mohan Hospital, who initially treated her, said she had 25% burns on her face and upper body.
 
 The remaining survivors have, meanwhile, been discharged after treatment from Narendra Mohan Hospital.
 
 Though police on Wednesday questioned a 27-year-old Delhi woman, who is suspected to have orchestrated the attack, they did not arrest her. The woman, who belongs to Kondli in Delhi, has been named as the prime accused in the FIR registered at Sahibabad police station.
 
 The insurance executive’s father said he had earlier complained about the accused to her family in Kondli.
 
 “We had complained against this woman in police stations of Sahibabad and Ashok Nagar on two occasions in November last year. We had also visited her home and asked her mother to stop her from stalking my daughter. The manner in which she would make phone calls to my daughter and harass her seemed like she was a psycho,” he said.
 
 According to police, the accused works as a coordinator with a housing finance company that has its offices in Sector 2 of Noida and Sector 5 of Vaishali. She was in the firm’s Noida unit earlier, where she had met the survivor, cops said.
 
 Police are scanning CCTV footages of the area where the attack took place as none of the survivors has been able to give a clear description of the attackers.
 
 “All that I knew was that the attackers pulled up on the right side of the auto, flung some corrosive liquid inside and sped away. We were lucky that the attack took place just outside the hospital gate and we were carried inside by locals instead of having to wait for an ambulance,” said Anil Tyagi, one of the survivors.
 
 Police said a CCTV camera in the area has captured the bike-borne attackers. “We are interrogating the accused woman. We are also trying to probe if there could be the involvement of any other person in the crime. The CCTV footage is being examined. We have gathered some crucial details,” said Ghaziabad SP (city) Akash Tomar.
 
 
