HYDERABAD: Describing his ouster as president of   (HCA) as unfair,   on Wednesday approached the   to declare his removal as illegal and beyond the jurisdiction of the ombudsman. He also urged the court to suspend his removal proceedings and allow him to continue as   president.

 
 Former India captain  , who complained against Vivek to the ombudsman, was made a respondent in the case. The complaint against Vivek says there is a conflict of interest between HCA and Visakha Industries, both of which were headed by him. Vivek’s counsel told the court that there was no conflict of interest in the matter. In fact, it was Vivek who first approached the ombudsman with a plea to decide whether there was any conflict of interest in the matter. Even before that was decided by the ombudsman, there was a fresh complaint against Vivek charging him with conflict of interest and that was decided by the ombudsman without deciding the fate of Vivek’s plea, the counsel for the ousted HCA chief said and sought a stay.
 
 Azharuddin’s counsel K Ramakanth Reddy objected to it and sought a full-fledged hearing of the matter before deciding about any relief to Vivek. To save time, the counsel said, the pleadings they filed before the ombudsman could be taken as their pleadings before the court as well. The reforms in Indian cricket began with Lalit Modi fleeing from the country and a three-judge bench of the Supreme Court has been monitoring reforming of all cricket bodies in states along with BCCI ever since, he said.
 
 The developments at HCA were part of this overhaul exercise, Ramakanth Reddy said. “The court need not stop this midway. Let there be a complete hearing on the facts of the case and a decision at that stage would be better,” he said. The judge posted the case to Thursday for further hearing.
 
 A similar plea filed by Sesh Narayan, sacked secretary of HCA, was posted to Thursday.
 
 In response to a statement by HCA CEO Panduranga Murthy that HCA had taken permission from BCCI for hosting G Venkatswamy Memorial Telangana T20 tournament, TOI makes it clear that the BCCI CEO had stated in his affidavit submitted to the court on Tuesday that HCA had not taken permission, and the same was reported.
 
