AMARAVATI: Water will play a crucial role in next year’s elections, and this was evident with the huge allocations to irrigations projects by N Chandrababu Naidu’s government in it’s final  . 

 Undeterred by the Centre’s non-cooperation over funding of key projects, the government is determined to complete the prestigious project of  , for which it has allocated a massive Rs 9,994 crore. This is a steep jump of nearly 65% from the previous year’s allocation. 
 
 Although, Polavaram has been declared a national project, and funding for the works have been 100% tied up with Nabard, the state government is going ahead by spending huge monies without waiting for Central funds, as it wants to release the water into Polavaram canals before seeking votes.
 
 Finance minister   was generous with allocation for other projects, too, as the overall allocation to the   department has been upped by nearly 33%. All irrigation projects put together got around Rs 16,978 crore. In fact, the irrigation department had sought Rs 20,000 crore to meet the CM’s target to complete 20 major projects on a war footing.   tried to strike a balance between welfare and development schemes, and trimmed the demands of the irrigation department slightly. “Naidu is banking on major irrigation projects to return to power, and hence the focus,” said a political analyst. 
 
 Interestingly, the state government has spared Rs 1,500 crore from the Polavaram project allocation exclusively for rehabilitation and resettlement of project affected people. This is nearly 16% of the total for the project. Source said the allocation for rehabilitation and resettlement has been given thrust as the government does not want to derail the project works because of resettlement issues. 
 
 In fact, the Centre is yet to approve the revised project cost, which was estimated at a massive Rs 53,000 crore. Initially, the Centre had agreed to pay just Rs 16,010 crore, and subsequently revised it to Rs 30,000 crore. However, the implementation of the new land acquisition Act has further escalated the cost to Rs 53,000 crore. Among other important projects, Veligonda project in Prakasam district got a decent Rs 334 crore.
 
 
