THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister   said that the state government has broken conventions to help the families of  . While distributing the relief fund to the families of 92 missing fishermen at Vettucaud here on Tuesday, Pinarayi Vijayan said that the government had overlooked technicalities while ensuring aid for   affected families.

 “We abandoned conventional routes. If we had followed existing rules, we would not have been able to help these families in a timely manner. There is no word that could comfort them and nothing would substitute the lives that were lost. But those were lives which once protected families, took care of their dear ones and the government had to act swiftly to take care of their family members,” said Pinarayi Vijayan.
 
 An amount of Rs 20 lakh each was distributed to dependants of 92 persons who went missing during Ockhi disaster. Deposit documents were handed over to family members of 92 missing fishermen. Pinarayi Vijayan said that the government would soon purchase three marine ambulances to assist rescue operations in future. “This will be purchased at a cost of Rs 18.24 crore of which BPCL and Cochin Shipyard have agreed to contribute partially from their corporate social responsibility funds.
 
 Minister for tourism and devaswom Kadakampally Surendran said that the state government has gone beyond all false allegations of delay and lapses and has reached out to the Ockhi victims like no other government could. “Even the central government agencies failed in giving proper warning ahead of Ockhi. The state government took lot of blame for that, but all those were false allegations propagated by certain opportunists who were keen on taking advantage of the adversity. A section of media had also tried to hide facts and portray the government in bad light,” said Kadakampally Surendran.
 
 Surendran said that the government acted in such a way that none of the beneficiaries had to wait in government offices to avail the aid. “The government literally took the help to their homes. Around 2,140 Christmas kits were distributed. Families of missing persons were given Rs 10,000 per month without fail,” said Kadakampally Surendran.
 
 
