Ayyappan.V@timesgroup.com

 Chennai: With all the fuel that the   diversions in caused, one flight carrying 600 passengers could have flown to London and back, three flights could have cruised to Dubai and back and six flights could have flown to Delhi and back. The cost in terms of fuel and time lost was huge. Though bhogi-related diversions happen annually, airlines did not reschedule in advance and AAI took it casually. 
 
 Around 80 tons to 90 tons of fuel must have been burned by flights for diversions in one of the biggest flight disruptions in recent times at Chennai airport on Saturday. Sixteen flights including nine international flights were diverted to Bengaluru and Hyderabad. While a few were alerted about the airport closure before they could reached near Chennai, other flights hovered in circles for close to 15minutes to 20minutes waiting for visibility to improve before deciding to fly to another airport. 
 
 A rough calculation show that the diversions alone could have led to an additional use of approximately 80 tonnes to 90 tonnes of fuel by the 16 flights including fuel needed for hovering, diversion to another airport and return to Chennai. 
 
 Though fuel consumption varies from one   to another depending on the type of engine, size of the plane, and the load it is carries, pilots say that it would take approximately three tons fuel to reach Hyderabad which is an hour away from Chennai. And an A32O or Boeing 737 may burn 2.5 tons to three tons per hour while a B787 may burn 4tons during cruise if wind is favorable and if the plane gets a higher altitude. 
 
 The loss also included aircraft operating costs, crew time, meals and hotels, payment for handling planes at the diverted airport, fees to the ground handler, delay of return flight and associated cancellation by passengers. 
 
 Most of the diverted flights returned only in the afternoon. This means passengers from Dubai saw their total time spent travelling double as they spent four hours or more on waiting which is equivalent to flying time. 
 
 A senior official of Airports Authority of India said that the cost would be more if they had to refuel after a diversion to get back to Chennai. 
 
 The loss of time and fuel could have been avoided if small airports like Puducherry, Vellore and Tirupati already had better facilities to handle large planes. Though these airports are closer than Bengaluru and Hyderabad, they cannot be used for diversions because their runways are short and facilities are inadequate to handle planes like A320 and bigger aircraft. 
 
 Airports Authority of India, however, does not want to invest in CAT 3 category runway landing system in Chennai though fog-related delays take place a few days every year. Officials said neither would it be possible to upgrade the smaller airports which anyway don’t get bigger aircraft on a regular basis. “To let many of the Chennai-bound flights land, these smaller airports need longer runway, better crash tenders and more fire safety personnel. Even if we extend the runway at these airports, they will need allied services like ground handlers.”
 
 Former pilot and air safety expert captain Mohan Ranganathan have a different take on why developing Puducherry and Vellore airports may not work as an alternative. “People in those areas too may be having bhogi bonfires. On such days, airlines should aim to reach Chennai after 8.30am. They should keep a watch on weather and tweak schedules,” he said. 
 
 
