BHUBANESWAR: It’s redemption time for  . The pain of losing the ISL final to Chennaiyin FC still hurts Albert Roca’s team. On the eve of Friday’s   final against  , their Spanish coach reminded his team of that result and urged them to add a new trophy to the club’s cabinet.

 
 “We finished top of the table with an eight point lead (in the ISL-4). But the rules gave other teams an opportunity to win, which is usually not the case in a league format. But we need to forget that and look to grab this new opportunity to win a trophy,” Roca said on Thursday.
 
 It’s redemption time for East Bengal, too.
 
 Having failed to get over the line in a closely-fought I-League championship race, the red-and golds had come here with a point to prove. The talk of a crisis following the club’s decision to induct Subhas Bhowmick as the technical director to Khalid Jamil’s system now seems to be a thing of the past and the duo is leaving no stone unturned to make sure that the team ends the season with a hurrah.
 
 “This is the last game of the season and it happens to be the final. A final is always a different game and you can never predict an outcome,” Jamil remarked during the pre-match news conference.
 
 It’s also a clash between supposedly the “best team of ISL” and an I-League heavyweight.
 
 BFC will enter the contest high on confidence. If Sunil Chhetri’s hat-trick was the highlight of their triumph over Neroca FC in the quarterfinal, Nicolas Ladislao Fedor ‘Miku’ single-handedly demolished   with another treble in the last-four stage.
 
 Ahead of the final, Chhetri spelled out the team’s strategy against East Bengal. “In this team, everyone’s a fighter. As a team, we thrive on self-belief. It took us past Mohun Bagan even when we were trailing by a goal and down to 10 men. We will carry the same belief in the final as well,” the India striker stated.
 
 The suspension of Nishu Kumar, who was red-carded against Mohun Bagan and injury doubts over defensive duo Juanan and   mean Roca will be forced to rejig his backline. But BFC boast an attacking line and a midfield fluidity that is capable of overcoming any challenge.
 
 Odds, therefore, are stacked heavily against East Bengal. The team continues to sweat over Dudu Omagbemi’s fitness. The Nigerian striker went through several fitness drills under physio Garcia’s supervision, away from the main team’s practice session at the Kalinga Stadium’s training ground on Thursday. The team management has decided to take a call on his availability on the matchday. Both Ansumana Kromah and Jobby Justin have been put on stand-by should Dudu fail to make the starting line-up.
 
 If wastefulness in front of goal has marked East Bengal’s stuttering progress to the final, Mahmoud Al Amna insisted that it would be “different 90 minutes” from his team. “True, BFC are the form team. But they run the risk of being caught off guard if they take us for granted,” the Syrian playmaker said.
 
 “Yes, we are ambitions and the favourites, but only 50 per cent,” Roca quipped, adding that his team needs “proper preparation” against East Bengal.
 
 Preparations over and strategies drawn up, the two teams are now ready to enter the battle. It remains to be seen which team has the last laugh.
 
