BHOPAL: Police on Thursday denied allegations of illegal confinement and assault of four teenagers from  , who were picked in an alleged theft case. The teenagers, aged between 13 to 17 years, were found at   police station when their parents reached there to lodge a missing person’s complaint.

 Kamla Nagar station house officer (SHO)   said the teenagers were caught red-handed by residents stealing and brought to the police station just a few minutes back.
 
 Later, police handed over the boys to ChildLine after registering an FIR against them on charges of theft.
 
 During counselling, one of the teenagers told ChildLine that they were picked by police on Tuesday morning from their home. They were first taken to the police station and then to a secluded house, where they were kept for two days, he said, adding, cops kept assaulting them all the while. “On Wednesday, they were allowed to meet their family members and again taken back to the place where they were kept,” he alleged.
 
 He alleged they were brought to the police station on Thursday and charged with theft. The teenager accused cops of putting jewellery and cash in their pockets to show it was stolen by them. The teen’s mother told TOI, she rushed to police station with other parents after cops picked their children from home, but could not locate her son. The teen’s mother said she approached ChildLine members, who asked her to file a missing complaint. When they reached the police station, their children were brought and police claimed that they were caught red-handed committing theft.
 
 A ChildLine member   said, “Children claimed that they were kept in a house at   slums where they were assaulted by the cops.” He added, “When their parents approached us, we contacted SHO Ashish Bhattacharya, but he refused to provide any information. Later, we tried to lodge a missing complaint, but before that cops brought the four teenagers to the station.” He claimed, “Police did not follow the rules of Juvenile Justice Act.”
 
