GURUGRAM: Booth operators at the   toll plaza, especially women, have long complained of harassment they face from abusive commuters who refuse to pay toll fee. It came to a head on February 10 this year, when a commuter refused to pay up and tried to intimidate the woman operator by shooting an “offensive” video of hers. 

 The story of discontent surrounding Kherki Daula toll plaza, though, doesn’t end there. Residents, especially inhabitants of nearby villages, have long demanded that the plaza be relocated because it either forces them to pay toll for their regular local commute or carry and produce cumbersome documentation.
 
 The women employees TOI spoke to said commuters routinely refuse to pay toll and harass them. Divya Chaurasiya, an operator, said: “We are used to being harassed now. Many Delhi Police officers also refuse to pay the toll fee and quarrel with us.”  , another operator, added, “Even ladies often abuse us in English and try to get the toll boom bar raised by force. They try to intimidate us with their fluent English. Some try to flaunt their clout, while others throw the toll slip at us to display their contempt.”
 
 The incident on February 10 flared up over an argument between a woman operator and a commuter who refused to pay toll fee. He made a video of her, which he later deleted when confronted. The 22-year-old man, whose name has not been disclosed, was travelling to Gurugram from Delhi with his father. “The youth raised his voice and started abusing the operator. When she said he would have to pay the fee as his car had a Delhi registration number, he flatly refused. To avoid traffic jams, he himself came to our office, which is located nearby, to speak with senior officials,” said Kripal Singh, public relation officer of Skylark Securitas Private Limited, the firm in charge of the plaza’s operation and security.
 
 “The man, his father and the operator were waiting in the office, when he started shooting videos of her. When she protested and asked him to delete the video, he refused,” Singh added. “He shot an ‘upskirt’ video of the female operator as she had bent down to pick something up. He also falsely claimed to be a journalist,” said Skylark chairman T C Rao. Officials then called police. A   arrived and took both parties to Kherki Daula police station, where a compromise was reached. 
 
 The toll plaza authorities said they regularly submit reports on the law and order situation at the plaza to cops and transport department, with proof of commuters arguing with staff. MCEPL chief S Raghuraman said, “Maintenance of law and order is after all the responsibility of the police department, not ours.” 
 
 
