GURUGRAM: Gurgaon has lost as many as 389   in the past 60 years, a study has revealed. The study report, compiled by the district administration, has been submitted in the   ( ).

 While the NGT on Monday directed the   government to protect all existing water bodies under the government ownership, the study came up with some interesting observations.
 
 According to the study, there were 640 water bodies as per revenue records of 1956. However, 251 water bodies exist as per the current revenue records. The study also found that 253 out of 291 villages have water bodies in the Gurgaon district. 
 
 “Water bodies ranging in size from a few hundred yards to hundreds of acres have been identified. Some occur in one data source, others in two of them, and some in all three data sets. For the water bodies that have been found in the satellite imagery or survey of India map, but which are not found in the revenue record, an attempt has been made to identify the status of those areas in the revenue record in terms of who owns the land, and its land type in the record,” says the study.
 
 The study also highlights that low-lying areas, which show up on satellite imagery of 2011-12 but not in the revenue records, are at the highest risk of being filled up. “Many of these are publicly owned by  , MCG, panchayats, (and) HSIIDC. These areas need to be identified on the ground on priority basis and conserved,” states the study.
 
 Calling it a first-of-its-kind study, Chetan Agarwal, an independent environmental analyst, said, “This is a first-of-its-kind study by the district administration. It has established a baseline of water bodies from the revenue record of the 1950s/60s and then overlaid the water bodies found in the Survey of India maps of 1970s vintage. Finally, it looked at the recent situation using satellite imagery of 2011-12.”
 
 “Now we know what water bodies we have lost, what water bodies are still left, which are the areas which likely recharge ground water in the monsoon. The study can be the basis for action for preserving and restoring these water bodies as groundwater recharge zones,” he added.
 
  
  
 
 The study also proposed to access the change in water bodies between 2012 and 2017. “The water body extracted from 2011-12 satellite imagery layer can be superimposed on a recent end of monsoon high resolution satellite image of Gurgaon from 2017-18 to assess the change, between 2012 and 2017,” it states.
 
 
