NEW DELHI: An autorickshaw driver was killed when a 17-year-old boy, on a joyride with two friends in a Maruti Ciaz sedan, rammed into the threewheeler at the intersection of Tolstoy Marg and Kasturba Gandhi Marg early on Thursday morning. The car, registered with a company in east Delhi, is owned by the accused teenager’s uncle, a teacher at a private school. Two occupants of the car were also injured.

 Witnesses say that the sedan, probably being driven at more than 100kmph, shot past the traffic signal, which was in blinker mode, and rammed the auto from the side, causing it to flip twice and land on the other side of the road. The auto driver,  , was thrown out, his body hitting the footpath.
 
 The incident occurred around 5.40am when the auto-driver, Shiv Shankar Mehto (65), was on his way back home to the DDA flats on   from a CNG pump on Janpath.
 
 Mehto’s nephew and his friend, who were driving a few metres behind the autorickshaw, said that the car also flipped a few times and hit the divider on Tolstoy Marg due to which a youth sitting in the backseat fell out and got trapped under the vehicle.
 
 The teenager behind the wheel was saved because of the airbag. A PCR took them all to Lady Hardinge Medical College where Mehto was declared dead on arrival.
 
 “We registered a case of causing death due to negligence, causing hurt due to negligence and rash and negligent driving and are probing the incident further,” DCP (New Delhi) Madhur Verma said. The teen driver’s uncle, too, has been booked under the same sections.
 
 While being questioned, the youths told the cops that they had gone to Connaught Place early on Thursday morning for a joyride. Two of them are classmates at a private school in east Delhi while the third, a 15-year-old, is a cousin of one of them.
 
 The teen driver’s uncle told cops that he was unaware that the youths had taken the car for a spin. The youths claimed that he had handed over the keys to them. The accused teen stays with his uncle in Delhi while his father lives in Lucknow.
 
 Mehto’s body was handed over to his son   after the autopsy on Thursday afternoon. Police are scanning CCTV footage from the area to establish the sequence of events.
 
