SURAT: The Veer Narmad South Gujarat University’s ( ) refusal to share details of educational qualification certificates of vice-chancellor Shivendra Gupta will be challenged by a senator. 

 The question was raised by senator   in VNSGU annual senate meeting on Tuesday. Now, after the VNSGU authorities’ refusal, Rabari will be seeking details under the Right to Information ( ) Act. He is also going to approach the governor seeking details. The details were not answered by the varsity citing a statute.
 
 The university authorities claimed that they can refuse to answer any question which is not found appropriate by the varsity officials and they are entitled to do so under a specific statute. However, those working in higher education claimed that qualification details of head of a university should be shared with all members.
 
 In a question, an elected representative of law faculty Rabari asked education qualification and details of various degrees of VC during a senate meet. He also demanded marksheet, degree certificate and details of percentage at graduation and postgraduation.
 
 However, VNSGU denied information citing statute 36(2)(i)(h) (no question may be admitted which does not satisfy the following conditions, viz - It must not be such as cannot be answered consistently with the interests of the university).
 
 “There should not be any issue to share details of the vice-chancellor’s educational qualification. He should show it to whoever demands. In fact, it should be made public,” Rabari told TOI, who has also raised serious concerns about use of VC’s post by other people in his absence.
 
 “I will demand the details under RTI and also from the governor. Hopefully I will get to know the details,” he added.
 
 Reacting to Rabari’s query, Gupta said, “My qualification and degrees are my personal documents I will not show to anyone if I don’t wish. If I start showing it then anyone will come seeking the details. My biodata is already in public domain.” 
 
 
