PATIALA:   police have nabbed a gangster wanted in cases of murder and kidnapping, including the killing of the son of a former SAD minister Teja Singh Dhillon. Raj Kumar, alias Raju, was arrested on Monday while travelling in a bus in Fatehgarh Sahib and a .12-bore pistol, along with three cartridges, were seized from him. 

 Police revealed that Raju, a murder convict, was wanted in nine cases registered against him in different police stations for his alleged involvement in snatchings, robberies, dacoities at gunpoint, kidnappings and murders. He had been declared a proclaimed offender (PO) for the last two years. 
 
 He had killed  , son of former Akali minister, in 2009 and was sentenced to life imprisonment in 2012 in the case. Raju was declared a PO after he jumped parole in 2013.
 
 He was again arrested in 2014 in a case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. In 2016, he again managed to escape from police custody with the help of his accomplices while on way to Mansa court from Hoshiarpur jail for hearing.
 
 Police claimed Raju admitted that after committing a crime he used to travel to Ajmer in Rajasthan to take refuge in a shrine. 
 
 To avoid police, he was working in a stud farm at Bara Bhai Ka village in Ferozepur district on a fake identity. Fatehgarh Sahib SSP Alka Meena said that the crime investigation agency (CIA) staff had got a tip-off about the gangster, who hails from Mansa district. S
 
 he claimed that Raju was roaming in the district to make a strike when the police nabbed him. Raju was spotted travelling in a bus in Fatehgarh Sahib and the police teams confronted him, said the SSP.
 
 "Raju tried to fire at the police but was immediately overpowered. During preliminary interrogation, he revealed his identity and admitted to several crimes he committed in the past," said SSP Meena. 
 
 She said after the accused gangster managed to escape from police custody in 2016, he snatched a Swift car from a pesticide dealer in Maur Mandi of Bathinda district and stole a DZire car from Haryana. 
 
 The SSP said he kidnapped a rice miller from Bhikhi town in Mansa and released him after getting ransom of Rs 5 lakh.
 
 
