JAIPUR: Sunrisers Hyderabad’s bowling unit once again proved lethal as they marched past Rajasthan Royals, defending yet another below par score at Sawai Mansingh Stadium here on Sunday.

 
 
  
 
 
 
 After setting a target of 152,   bowlers applied the choke on the Royals with crucial wickets and some tight bowling to leave hosts skipper   a task that was too tall.
 
 Rahane, unbeaten on 65, was a lone warrior, with accomplished batsmen failing to fire. A partnership of 59 with Sanju Samson for the second wicket was the only notable point of mention as the Royals finished at 140 for 6, 11 runs short. Sandip Sharma and Siddharth Kaul were the pick of SRH bowlers, giving away just 15 and 23 runs in their four overs each.
 
 
 
 
 A certain six saved by Manish Pandey in the 19th over also helped SRH’s cause. In fact, that highlighted the importance of fielding, given another disappointing day in the field by Royals fielders.
 
 How costly can a dropped catch be? Quite costly, if Kane Williamson’s innings is anything to go by. Dropped on 11 by Rahul Tripathi, the Sunrisers skipper went on to add another 52, in the process stitching a 92-run second-wicket partnership with Alex Hales to grab early initiative.
 
 It was the Royals’ grit which saw them hitting back to restrict SRH to 151 for 7, a score that, however, proved more than enough.
 
 While Williamson’s 63 and Hales’ 45 were the highlights of SRH innings, it was Gowtham and Archer who once again stole the bowling show for Royals.
 
 Both continued their heroics for the second match running, although it was little different for Gowtham. After stunning Mumbai Indians with his batting, the spinner showed his prowess with the ball. He produced two superb spells of two overs each, one at the beginning and one towards the middle with each fetching a wicket apiece. An economy rate of 4.50 also ensured that SRH were left playing catch-up.
 
 For Archer, it was almost a repeat of last match’s show. Two wickets in one over towards the late stages had the opponents gasping. The eight overs between these two were primarily responsible for restricting SRH.
 
 
