KOLKATA: Junior HR minister Satyapal Singh’s comment dismissing Charles Darwin’s theory of evolution has raised many hackles, not just of scientists, but few probably know that Kolkata had a substantial part to play in the formulation of the English biologist’s groundbreaking hypothesis.

 Although   never actually visited India, his evolutionary theory owed much to nuggets of reference points that were provided to him by Edward Blyth, who became curator of the Asiatic Society on Park Street, in 1841. In fact, Darwin referred to material provided to him by Blyth from the then Calcutta in two of his most seminal works — ‘On the Origin of Species’, and ‘The Descent of Man’. Whereas the first book refers to his conclusions on the evolution of Indian cattle, the wild ass of Kutch and cross-bred Indian geese, the latter book has 40 reference points on a variety of Indian species. From 1855, there was a series of correspondences between Blyth and Darwin on subjects like the development of Indian cattle breeds or fancy pigeons that were to help Darwin establish how species could change. Much of these correspondences are still preserved in the society and are used by anthropologists and molecular biologists.
 
 The society has organised seminars, presented papers and published books to take the Darwinian theory forward. And there’s scope for more, they say. It’s also the perfect opportunity to clear misunderstandings caused by a poor understanding/reading of the theory. “The misconception that man evolved from monkeys has often been ascribed to Darwin, but he never said that. He mentioned instead that monkeys, apes and man evolved from Oreopithecus,” clarified Ranjana Ray, a senior anthropologist and anthropological secretary of the society. She has co-authored a book with microbiologist   on the relevance of Darwin.
  
  
 Ray said Blythe had sent Darwin a large number of specimens of Indian birds, both live and preserved ones, from Calcutta. These are still preserved at the Museum of Birds in London and draw a lot of eyeballs because comprised Darwin’s study material. “Similarly, Darwin’s correspondences that are preserved in the society and the scholarly debates that happened at that time over the theory can also become reference materials for new research,” Ray said.
 
 
