Visakhapatnam: With new members joining the party bandwagon and rapidly changing political equations, the YSR Congress Party city unit may face one of its toughest challenges in selecting candidates for each constituency in the run up to the 2019 assembly elections. Visakhapatnam city has eight assembly constituencies that fall within the (GVMC) limits. 

 While the Telugu Desam Party ( ) has already started appointing coordinators for each constituency and may primarily go with its sitting members of Parliament (MLAs) and industrialists, many party leaders are looking towards the main Opposition for seats. 
 
 It is learnt that there could be a major reshuffle while choosing the candidates and many constituency coordinators may lose their seats to the newbies, depending on their potential to draw votes. Meanwhile, rumour has it that some political heavyweights, including a few MLAs and an MP, from the ruling TDP are in touch with the YSR Congress and may shift their loyalties to the main Opposition party, which may further complicate the situation.
 
 For example, the North constituency has three coordinators. But recently a realtor and movie producer from the city joined the YSR Congress and emerged as serious competitors for the North constituency. 
 
 When it comes to Pendurthi constituency, the party is on a hunt for a political heavyweight. It is also said that a ruling party MP may switch over to the YSR Congress and compete for the Bheemili assembly constituency. Even though Anakapalli parliamentary district president Gudivada Amarnath has said he would contest from Anakapalli constituency, several others may join the fray for the seat. 
 
 A former minister’s son and a person closely associated with a dairy may also test their fortunes to get the ticket.
 
 YSR Congress Vizag city president Malla Vijay Prasad said the party will welcome more new entrants in the next two to three meetings. “The new joinings will prove a shot in the arm for the party. We will give respectable positions to each leader. We are going to conduct constituency-wise meetings in the next few days. Meetings of Gajuwaka and Vizag East Constituency will be conducted on Sunday and on Monday, Vizag South and North constituency meeting will be held,” said Vijay Prasad.
 
 The YSR Congress is looking for a candidate for the Vizag parliamentary constituency, who has weilds substantial influence over the constituency. Rumours have been doing the rounds that a women MP served from the same constituency, who is currently sailing along with BJP, might be the candidate if she shifts allegiances to the party. An industrialist close to the party high command may be also roped in for the same seat.
 
 A person from the fishermen community, who closely worked with Praja Rajyam, is competiting for the Vizag South constituency seat. There will also be a change in the final candidate selection for Gajuwaka constituency. However, some party leaders opined that the frequent change of coordinator of the constituency and new joinings might dampen the spirits of already working leaders as well as activists. 
 
 “Many leaders, particularly the coordinators, pinned their hopes on the party tickets. Last minute changes might be a bane for the party,” said a party leader.
 
 
