HYDERABAD: In a significant judgement, the Hyderabad high court on Friday ordered a fresh probe into the decade old mysterious murder of   B Pharmacy student  . The court also made it clear that it would directly monitor the probe. The special investigation team (SIT) that was formed 9 months ago to re-investigate the case was practically insulated by the HC which made the SIT answerable only to the court and to none else. 

 The bench of the Acting Chief Justice,   and Justice J Uma Devi pronounced this order in a public interest petition filed by Osmania University's retired professor   and two others. The bench directed the state of AP to take action immediately against the previous investigators who misled the probe and fixed an innocent youth in the case. The state cannot transfer the SIT chief or its members during the probe period without permission from the court, the bench said. If the probe team comes across any extraneous influence to alter the direction of the probe, then the investigators should immediately bring it to the notice of the court, the bench said. The bench, which kept in pending the petition filed by Ayesha's parents seeking a   probe into the matter, directed the SIT to file its first report on the progress it made in the case by April 20.
 
 Expressing satisfaction over the outcome, Vasudha  , counsel for the petitioners, told TOI that this judgement would reinforce the faith of the common man in the system. 
 
 It can be recalled that a bench of Justice C V Nagarjuna Reddy and Justice M S K Jaiswal had acquitted Pidatala Satyam Babu in the case after giving a finding that he is innocent and that the police had conducted a fraudulent probe into the case and intentionally fixed him. But it did not give a direction to get the matter re investigated to find out the real killers of Ayesha who was found dead in her hostel in Ibrahimpatnam near Vijayawada on December 27, 2007. Later, separate pleas were filed seeking a re-probe and also a CBI probe. 
 
 
