Noida: The district administration on Thursday issued notices to owners or managers of 14 plots in Gautam Budh Nagar who were found to be violating National Green Tribunal (NGT) norms to check pollution. Apart from Noida Authority and the power department, other violators include institutions, industries and private plot owners in Noida and Greater Noida.

 The violators have been given a week’s time to comply with the norms and reply to the notice, or else the district administration will slap a fine of  ,000 on each of them for not following the rules.
 
 The notices were issued after reports were filed by regional pollution officers who periodically conduct surveys across the district to check if the green court’s norms are being followed or not.
 
 City magistrate Mahendra Kumar Singh issued the 14 notices that were sent, among others, to the officer on special duty ( ) Noida Authority, executive engineer at power distribution block 16, Grand Ajnara Heritage in Sector 74, the owner of APX Athena RMC plant in Sector 75, Amrapali Crystal Home in Sector 76 and owner of plot C 4 in Sector 80. 
 
 In Greater Noida, the notices were sent to various plots in Toy City Ecotech 3, Knowledge Park, Sakipur village, Noida SEZ (NSEZ), Surajpur industrial area, UPSIDC industrial area in Surajpur, Ecotech 1 Extension and Ecotech 3. 
 
 These areas were found to be using unauthorised diesel generator sets, dumping unattended construction material on the road leading to dust pollution, burning garbage or dry leaves in the open and discharging untreated toxic effluents from industries.
 
 The move came followin ga directive from district magistrate B N Singh to ensure that all buildings in the district follow NGT rules. “These institutions/owners have been given a week’s time to send their replies, following which we will begin the process to recover the penalty,” said Singh. He said even if the report is not received by the persons/firms concerned within a week, the recovery proceedings against them will continue nonetheless.
 
 
