GURUGRAM: The death of SPO Mukesh Kumar (35), who was knocked down by an SUV on Old Gurgaon-Delhi road in the early hours of Monday, has once again highlighted the risk that policemen face during   at night, especially in areas bordering the national capital.

 Cops at   police station, where Kumar was posted, claimed that incidents of rash driving and hit-and-run were quite frequent during the late hours in the area, often posing life risks to policemen manning city roads to check crime rates.
 
 The night patrolling is particularly difficult near boarders, as criminals even from neighbouring states or districts sneak into the city, taking advantage of the dark. “We have to put our life at risk every time we go out at night,” maintained a cop.
 
 Yet, as per the directive of the state police chief issued last August, even senior police officers and area SHOs have to be out on the roads at night on a rotational basis.
 
 According to sources, the Palam Vihar area had been a dumping ground of bodies till recently. Also, there had been reports of clashes between criminal gangs both from Gurgaon and Delhi, in this area in the past. Porous borders apart, large swathes of empty land have been posing challenges to the police.
 
 In fact, as a senior police officer pointed out, the high crime rate in the area had been one of the main reasons for setting up Bajghera police station on the other side of the railway tracks.
 
 According to the police, Old Delhi-Gurgaon road and MG Road are among the most risky stretches.
 
 In June last year, four men in a black Scorpio attempted to run over Sector 29 SHO Vikas Kaushik on MG Road when he was signalled to stop for checking at night. Two people were later arrested for the offence. Similarly, a 28-year-old man abused 3 cops and tried to run his SUV over them and jumped the barricade in August. He was arrested later.
 
 “There had been many injuries. But, Kumar’s death is going to have an impact on the morale of the entire force,” said another senior cop not wishing to be named.
 
 A cop at Palam Vihar police station remembered Kumar as a gentleman, who never shied away from his duty. “He was not a lazy cop. Had he been one, he wouldn’t have been dead,” he added. SHO Vikram Nehra and several other cops went to Kumar’s village Sirsa Kher in Jind, where he laid to rest.
 
 
