In the wake of the fire incident in the Sri Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple, allegedly caused due to a short circuit in a shop on the temple premises, many feel that shifting of all the shops, including those in the temple to the proposed site in Kunnathoor Chathiram should be done without further delay. In 2006, the department of tourism made a proposal to shift the shops in the Pudhumandapam and the shops on the temple premises to Kunathoor Chathiram, near the temple. The Pudhumandapam, is an architectural marvel also constructed by King Thirumalai Naicker, situated between East Chittirai and East Masi streets in front of the eastern tower of the Meenakshi temple. It has about 50 sculptures, including those of intricately carved yalis, Brahma, and also scenes from the 64 celestial dramas of Lord Shiva. The Pudhumandapam, seen right opposite to the temple entrance where the fire broke out, is 333 feet in length and 105 feet in width. When the Tamil Nadu tourism department made the proposal to renovate the mandapam at a cost of Rs2.4 crore in 2006, it was stated that cultural events would be held in this mandapam, after it is cleared of the shops. The old Kunathoor Chathiram adjoining the Pudhumandapam was selected for setting up a commercial complex. But even though the foundation stone was laid in December 2006, work was not completed and the Pudhumandapam continues to be defaced and damaged by the shops. A Sundaravalli, a regular temple goer says that the shops inside the temple do not have such a big crowd buying things from them as in the Pudhumandapam. Convenor of the Madurai chapter of the INTACH, Aravind Kumar Sankar said it would be better if the shops, those that spoil the beauty of the temple premises, were removed to the Kunnathoor Chathiram along with the shops in Pudumandapam. However flower vendors, and kumkum sellers should be allowed to remain on the temple premises,’’ he said. When contacted, Madurai Corporation Commissioner Aneesh Sekhar said that the shifting of the shops to the Kunnathoor Chathiram was a part of the smart city project and would be taken up soon.