KOTA: Hours after they robbed gold jewellery worth over Rs two crores from Kota's income tax office, three youth including one who was a contractual employee at the office, were arrested by the   on Sunday. 

 The three accused had looted the gold from the investigation cell of assistant director's office in the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday. They had broken into the office by breaking its main door and damaged the   cameras in order to avoid getting caught.
 
 The accused have been identified as Ravindra Rajput alias Vikki (24),   alias Ravi (22) and Ashish Sameriya (23), all natives of Suket town in Kota district and currently residing in Kota. The three have been arrested and the stolen gold was recovered from them.
 
 Additional superintendent of police (ASP), Kota city,   said, "Ravindra, who plotted the burglary, is a contractual employee in the office posted as a computer operator. They entered the office at 2 pm from the back door of the premises and made their way to the deputy director's chamber on the second floor where they first broke the CCTV cameras. Ravindra, who was working in the office since April 2016, was well aware of the interiors and where the gold was kept. They broke the almirah door partially with an iron rod and took out the key of the double lock safe where the sealed boxes of gold were placed."
 
 The gold they had looted was seized from the house of a well-known jeweller in the city during search operations by the department sleuths. According to police, the three deliberately tore files and papers and scattered the pages outside the chamber to create an impression that the crime was committed by the jewellers' men.
 
 "They even divided the gold among themselves before heading home. They had tried to break in on the previous night too but could not because of the presence of guards at the main entry," said Kumar.
 
 The ASP said footprints in the deputy director's chamber, ones outside the office building and camera footage of about fifty CCTV cameras installed near the office building raised suspicion on Ravindra's role. "When he was interrogated strictly, he admitted to the crime and gave away the names of the other two also," he added.
 
