It’s been 34 years since   made her acting debut with Nokketha Doorathu Kannum Nattu along with  , and now life seems to have come a complete circle with the duo starring together in director Ajoy Varma’s upcoming movie  .

 The film also marks a comeback of sorts for her in Mollywood, where she still enjoys a warm reception. In between the shooting in Mumbai, the actress talks to us about working with Mohanlal, on being choosy from the start of her career and why she still feels like a newcomer:
 
 
 Actually, it happened all of a sudden. I was travelling to Chennai for an event when I got a call, telling me about the film and that they would love to cast me. As I was travelling, I told them I would get back in a few days. But they were looking to urgently cast somebody for the role, so a person from the production unit met me and narrated the story. I told him that I needed more details. So, when I returned to Mumbai, the scriptwriter came over and we went through the script.
 
 The biggest attractions, for me, were working with Lalettan and shooting in Mumbai, as I have never shot for any of my movies in my hometown. Also, getting to work with director Ajoy Varma and cinematographer Santhosh Thundiyil, who are based in Mumbai, I thought that would be a different experience.
 
 
 
 Yes and no, because we used to meet at social gatherings, but not often. He’s not someone I keep in touch over the phone. But whenever we have met, it’s been cordial. He’s always been special because he’s my first co-star and it was also the beginning phase of his career. So, it has sweet memories to look back.
 
 
 
 He is one of the most talented actors we have in India. It’s a privilege acting with him. A few days ago, we had shot a scene in Neerali where I am lying down with my eyes closed and Lalettan walks in to the room to see me. I was really tempted to open my eyes and see how he is going to react because he is seeing his wife after a while. That’s because there’s so much to learn from him. He’s been a wonderful co-star and it’s nice that I have the opportunity to discuss with him what will work as he’s open to suggestions. 
 
 Even though people say that I have been in the industry for so long, I like to think I am still a newcomer. Probably the younger actresses today have done more films than me. I have done 52 movies in my career while my contemporaries would have acted in 200 or 300 films. So, it’s not like I am an expert at my craft. I am still learning.
 
 
 
 I don’t even count it as lucky. I just think it’s a blessing just to have a space in their hearts for so many years. That doesn’t come easy. That’s why I have always tried to see what I can fit into and as you age, it’s even harder to get the right kind of roles. So, I am absolutely grateful to my audience to acknowledge my existence.
 
 
 
 It’s a very simple funda – when I pick a film, my heart has to be in it entirely. It’s not about making money or being there in the limelight. I don’t find stardom attractive. It’s something that comes and goes. Honestly, I am someone who doesn’t like to be seen too often because I would get bored of seeing myself. So, I definitely wouldn’t blame the audience if they feel the same.
 
 Over the years, there were other factors too. I have always maintained that cinema is my passion, but family is my priority. Our children were with us till a year ago, now they both study abroad. I didn’t want to lose out on parenting. Now is when I actually have some time on my hands. At the end of the day, I wanted to enjoy what I am doing. If I did this day after day, I wouldn’t be as motivated or excited about the film I am going to do.
 
 
 
 We started a few days ago in Mumbai. This film has a lot of CGI work, so the acting days are limited. It’s been great working with Ajay and Santhosh. We vibe really well and all of us got our sense of humour.
 
 
 
 I am working simultaneously on a Telugu movie titled   with  . I think it will be releasing the same time as Neerali in April or May.
 
