GURUGRAM: Devender Raghav, the Gurugram   unit’s president, who was detained along with Sena general secretary Suraj Pal   and 12 others for violence last Wednesday, has been taken on police remand for his alleged involvement in the arson of a state-run bus and attack on a school bus in  .

 
 
 
 However, the remaining detainees, except Amu, have been set free on a surety bond of Rs 20,000 each.
 
 Police said Raghav, a resident of Bhondsi village who was earlier picked up under Section 107/151 of the CrPC and sent to judicial custody till Monday, had been found to be involved in the arson and vandalism in Bhondsi during anti-Padmaavat protests last Wednesday. Mobs had set a Haryana Roadways bus on fire and pelted stones on a school bus carrying children home, hours before the first screening of the film   in the city.
 
 “He was produced in a city court and taken on five-day police remand on Monday for further investigation. His name has also been added to the Bhondsi FIR (filed earlier),” said a police spokesperson.
 
 Besides, sources said Raghav was one of the four persons who had threatened city hall owners of vandalism and communal violence in case they screened the movie, during the Sena’s rally on bikes and cars in Gurugram on January 21. The 12 others, who were kept at Bhondsi jail under preventive detention to stop them from participating in any kind of violence, were released on Monday. “They have been granted bail after they assured us that they will not take part in any activity that may disturb peace and harmony,” said another cop.
 
 
 
 
 Sena’s Rewari unit president  , alias  , and Lakhan, alias Kalu — both were arrested on Sunday — were also produced in a Sohna court on Monday and taken on two days remand. A member of the SIT, which was formed on Saturday, said the duo would be questioned to ascertain the extent of their role in the violence as well as find out other people involved in the incidents in Bhondsi and Sohna.
 
 Meanwhile, the Punjab and Haryana high court deferred till Thursday the hearing on a petition filed by rights activities, seeking a thorough probe into various incidents of violence, including the one in which school children were attacked in Bhondsi.
 
 In Jaipur, Sukhdev Singh Gogamedhi, head of Rashtriya Rajput Karni Sena, held a press conference on Monday and threatened to take their protest to Delhi if Amu was not released within four days.
 
 
