PUNE: A   here has rejected the bail   for   in Nigdi and disposing of the body in a forest in   in December 2016.

 The niece,  , who had married the victim (Sagar) against the wishes of her family, had registered a complaint of abduction against her maternal uncle, Satish alias Satesh Rajendra Thombare, after her husband had gone missing. Sagar had left from home in a car on December 7, 2016 and did not return that day. The same evening, Sagar phoned his wife to inform her that he was with Thombare in a club near Thermax chowk in Chinchwad.
 
 Sagar then handed over the phone to Thombare, who told Monika that Sagar was inebriated and abusing him and her father, Bharat  , while threatening them to creating a ruckus at her sister’s wedding for not printing Sagar’s name on the invitation card. Monika had then asked Sagar to return home, but he abused her too.
 
 When Sagar did not return home on December 8, 2016, his wife lodged an FIR naming Thombare and Kokare for abducting her husband. The probe led the Nigdi police to Sagar’s body dumped in a forest in Osmanabad district. Thombare and Kokare were arrested and the latter secured his release on bail. Thombare had sought bail on the grounds of parity with Kokare and had argued that there was no direct evidence to link him with the alleged crime. The prosecution opposed the plea stating, among other things, that the chargesheet highlighted Thombare’s role in the crime.
 
 Additional sessions judge V K Kadam observed on Wednesday, “The name of the applicant (Thombare) is in the FIR and it appears that he has played an active role in commission of the offence. There is ample evidence against the applicant. The memorandum of statement is also on record. If the applicant is released on bail, the possibility cannot be ruled out that he will pressurize the complainant and other witnesses. As such, the applicant is not entitled to be released on bail.” The court, however, directed the prosecution to see that the trial is expedited as early as possible.
 
 
