NEW DELHI: BJP’s failure to make good its claim of majority support for BS   may further slash the role of gubernatorial discretion in deciding who should get the first shot at government formation in situations of hung Houses.

 Karnataka governor   gave Yeddyurappa the first chance despite a contending claim from the rival Congress-JD(S) combine, which enjoyed clear majority. As the Supreme Court found out, Vala extended the crucial invite to Yeddyurappa merely on the basis of his claim that he had the support of “others.”
 
 Yeddyurappa could not prove his claim on Saturday and had to quit. Vala’s embarrassment should place limits on governors who find themselves in the same situation as him in future.
 
 Governor’s discretion will, naturally, come into play in cases of fractured mandates but he cannot do a Vala and extend the first invite for government formation to the leader of the single largest party if he claims majority support.
 
 Raj Bhavans will from now on be under pressure to accept a claim that is backed by concrete evidence rather than one which, as in the case of BJP’s Karnataka fiasco, is grounded more in desire and hope, in case the electorate does not give a party or a pre-poll alliance a neat verdict.
 
 Vala, in fact, had an example to learn from, and another to follow. In 1996, then President Shankar Dayal Sharma invited Atal Bihari Vajpayee, leader of BJP, which had finished first with 161 seats, to try and form the government. The BJP veteran could not rustle up the numbers, and resigned 13 days later after delivering a rousing speech which became the campaign theme for his successful charge in the next election.
 
 In the 1998 Lok Sabha polls, Vajpayee emerged as the clear winner as the leader of a pre-poll alliance led by BJP and was the natural choice for PM. However, wiser from experience, Sharma’s successor in Rashtrapati Bhavan K R Narayanan asked Vajpayee to produce letters of support from allies to satisfy himself that the BJP stalwart’s claim of majority support was based on real numbers.
 
 Vala ignored the lesson and paid the price in the form of his inclusion in a long list of governors who exercised their discretion on the basis of subjectivity rather than objective facts. 
 
