BHOPAL: A 70-year-old muezzin, whose call to prayer was a familiar ritual on Bhopal’s VIP Road, was stabbed to death in   on Thursday morning. Police don’t have a suspect yet but believe the murder was the fallout of personal enmity.

 This is the second murder at the mosque. In 2003, an imam was murdered here by members of a gym after a dispute over use of toilets.
 
 As soon as news of Nisar Ahmed Moulvi’s murder spread on Thursday, hundreds rushed to the mosque. Police had to be deployed on VIP Road and at Hamidia hospital, where the autopsy was conducted. IG   is personally leading the investigation, along with SP-north  , ASP Rajesh Bhadouria, CSP Nagendra Pateria and SHO Talaiya police station Manish Raj Bhadouria. Senior police officers remained at the traffic police outpost near Retghat on VIP Road all day to monitor the situation.
 
 ASP Bhadouria said Nisar lived in the mosque — popularly known as Akhadawali Masjid — since 2012.
 
 
 
 
 Police believe he was stabbed two-three times, possibly with a screwdriver, around 10.30am. The killer knew his way around the mosque, say police.
 
 Amir, the son of mosque imam Abdul Sattar, found the body around 11.30am and informed locals, who took Nisar to Hamidia Hospital. ASP Bhadouria said police received information from the hospital around noon and rushed to the scene of crime, only to find the bloodstains being cleaned. Circumstantial evidence suggests the involvement of someone close to the muezzin, said police sources.
 
 Manzar Ali, who lives nearby, said he met Nisar around 10am when he had gone to have tea and breakfast at a neighbour’s house. “The imam’s son came running to me around 11.30am to say that Nisar Saab was lying in a pool of blood. I called ambulance and we took him to Hamidia,” said Manzar.
 
 Nisar was unwell, had poor eyesight and hardly ever argued with anyone, police were told. Those who knew him are shocked that someone would murder him so brutally.
 
 The imam, who also lives in the mosque, has been interviewed as police look for clues. Nisar’s younger brother, Yasin, who came to   around 10 days ago, was in the mosque at the time of incident, but he is mentally unwell and has poor eyesight, said police. The mosque has two gates — one from Fatehgarh side and another from VIP Road.
 
 Nisar’s body will be taken to Shujalpur as he always asked to be buried there. The crime triggered a traffic jam on the busy road as hundreds flocked to the area.
 
