CHANDIGARH: Aggrieved over the interim bail granted by the Punjab and   high court to four persons initially arrested by Haryana police for their alleged involvement in   gang rape, murder and robbery case, the victims’ kin have moved the Supreme court.

 In their appeal filed through senior Congress leaders and advocates   and K T S Tulsi, they said the identification of these accused by the victim itself supersedes any other ocular circumstantial or forensic evidence but HC has overlooked this cardinal rule of the law.
 
 The matter has been fixed for hearing in the first week of July by the apex court.
 
 On March 7, HC had granted bail to four accused — Sandeep, Amarjeet, Karamjeet and Rahul Verma, all residents of Mohammadpur Ahir village of Mewat district. HC granted them bail after CBI filed a charge sheet against four other persons who were members of ‘Axle gang’ for committing the same crime.
 
 CBI had also informed the court that it could not found any evidence against these four accused who were arrested immediately after the incident but their investigation in the matter was still going on. On this, the court ordered their release on interim bail but asked CBI to produce the evidence collected by it against these accused in relation to the case.
 
 The case had hit the national headlines, when on the night of August 24, 2016, a family in Dingerheri village was attacked. While a Muslim couple was killed, several members of their family were injured and a 21-year-old woman and 16-year-old girl from the family were raped.
 
 The case was initially registered on August 25, 2016 by Haryana police. The state police had claimed big success in the case, after the arrest of four local youths within four days of the crime. However, there was resentment among the villagers, who claimed that the arrested youth were not involved in the crime after which the case was sent to CBI for probe.
 
 On September 13, 2017, Gurgaon police had arrested four persons identified as Hemant Chauhan, Ayan Chauhan, Vinay alias Lambu and Jai Bhagwan of ‘Axle gang’. During the CBI probe, these accused have confessed to their involvement in the Dingerheri case and charge sheet was also submitted against them before the special CBI court Panchkula. They are now in the judicial custody. 
 
 
