HYDERABAD: Buoyed by the Karnataka result, ‘Mission Telangana’ is high on BJP’s agenda ahead of the 2019 elections in the state. Replicating the strategy the party leadership had worked out in Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka to win the assembly elections,   will now go ahead with a three-pronged strategy to strengthen the party right from the booth level.

 
 “Apart from taking the schemes of BJP-led NDA government to doorsteps of the people in Telangana, we will be strengthening the party from village level,”   president K   told TOI. Work has already begun on preparing dossiers on each assembly and Lok Sabha constituency in Telangana. With party president Amit Shah set to tour Telangana, the state cadre are gung-ho.
 
 At the village level, ‘panna pramukhs’ were being appointed. Each pramukh is in charge of 30-40 voters. They will not only explain the schemes implemented by the Centre but also tell the villages why they should vote the BJP in the next elections. A committee of 21 members is in place for each polling booth. While there are 31,000 polling booths in Telangana, committees for 24,000 have already been constituted.
 
 “For five booths, there is a shakti kendra and for five shakti kendras, a maha shakti kendra has been set up. To oversee activities of each booth, full-time workers have been engaged by the party. They will be provided a motorbike and salary,” a senior leader said.
 
 Laxman recalled that the above strategy had worked wonders during the UP polls and in Karnataka. “Amit Shah had introduced this organisational set-up after he became the national president. T-BJP has such organisational set-up in 60 assembly constituencies of the total 119 segments,” he added.
 
 Apart from this, the district and state-level leaders will extensively tour the state and monitor the party activities. The party leadership has roped in national leaders like  , ministers Narendra Singh Tomar and Mangal Pandey and made them in-charge for four to five Lok Sabha constituencies.
 
 Meanwhile, the BJP leaders are dropping enough hints that the party would go it alone in the 2019 elections in Telangana. “Even if we want to forge an alliance, it will be only with M Kodandaram’s   (JSS),” a senior leader averred.
 
