BHOPAL: In the election year,   power distribution companies have decided not to burden the common man and even spared industries while seeking a nominal 4% hike in power tariff.

 In its annual revenue requirement filed before the   (MPERC), discoms have claimed 70% reduction in losses and hence went for nominal losses. Last year the discoms had sought a 14% hike in tariff. Sources said there has been a significant reduction in the revenue gap of the companies due to increase in their efficiency-last year the revenue gap, (difference between income and expenditure) was cumulatively Rs 4,528 crore which has come down to only Rs 1,306 crore.
 
 Sources however said the discoms have buckled under pressure from the state government which can ill-afford to antagonize people, ahead of crucial assembly elections, scheduled later this year. A similar thing happened in 2013 also, when the elections were round the corner, added sources.
 
 Apart from seeking an overall tariff hike of only 4%, the discoms have also not sought any tariff hike for domestic consumers who consume up to 50 units of power per month. For the remaining domestic users, the average hike of 2.73 % has been sought, say sources.
 
 Among the industrial sector, the discoms have also not sought any hike for low tension industrial power consumers. For the heavy industry sector a nominal power tariff hike of only 1.7% has been sought, said sources. The maximum hike has been sought on agricultural consumers at 7.9%.
 
  However, these consumers will not be directly affected as government subsidises the agricultural consumers, said sources. When contacted, managing director of the  , Sanjay Shukla confirmed that the annual revenue requirement has been submitted before the MPERC. "It was submitted before the MPERC on January 12. The rebates that were made last year have been extended," Shukla said.
 
 Commission will now put the tariff proposal of discoms in public domain and seek objections and suggestions from people and different stakeholders. Subsequently, the commission would conduct hearings and decide on the tariff.
 
 
