NEW DELHI: The usually grey and drab concrete pillars of   have now got a green cover, at a small stretch of the  .

 In a first such initiative by Delhi Metro,   of the elevated Blue Line (Dwarka Sector 21–Vaishali/ Noida City Centre) between   and   stations are sporting  .
 
 The pillars are covered by a mesh like frame, on which small pots with plants are mounted. The closely fitted rows of potted plants rise up, giving the pillars the look of vertical gardens. The pillars are located at the junction of Sikandra Road, Tilak Marg and Mathura Road, one of the busiest intersections in the city.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Delhi Metro, however, is not the first to take the green initiative. Bengaluru Metro and Kochi Metro have already adopted the concept earlier, inspired by Mexico. In Bengaluru and Kochi, every fourth to sixth pillar sports a vertical garden as the other pillars are used for advertising.
 
 In Delhi, the credit goes to the New Delhi Municipal Council, which first came up with the idea, created the vertical gardens and will now maintain them.
 
 “We developed a frame around the metro pillars on which the vertical gardens have come up. We thought the pillars had a rather shabby look and thought of giving it a green cover,” NDMC chairman Naresh Kumar told TOI. “It is a small but good medium of increasing the green cover of Delhi,” he added.
 
 The eight metro pillars were covered with evergreen plants that remain green throughout the year and also require minimal maintenance. The council plans to water these plants regularly through spraying machines with the help of pumps. It said that it has all the requisite machinery to take care of the plants around the year.
 
 “The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) had received a request from NDMC to beautify the metro pillars between Mandi House and Pragati Maidan metro stations through vertical gardens. Eight pillars were given to the council for this purpose,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC.
 
 “Vertical gardens on metro pillars is a unique idea and DMRC will also explore the possibility of replicating it at other locations,” he said.
 
