BIKANER: The heroic feats of Sardar   (platoon) of the erstwhile Jodhpur state, hailed by Prime Minister   during his speech at the inauguration of oil refinery in Barmer on Tuesday, will not be complete without mentioning its role in defeating enemy forces in Aleppo, Jordan Valley and France during World War I.

 Modi had praised the platoon’s role in WW-I to capture Haifa in Israel, and acknowledged the supreme sacrifice of Major  , who became a martyr at Haifa on September 23, 1918, while fighting Turkish and German forces. In July, Modi had also visited Haifa and paid homage to Indian soldiers who laid down their lives defending the city.
 
 Documents with the Rajasthan State Archives Bikaner (RSAB) reveal that 22 army men of the Risala were killed, including Major Dalpat Singh, Lt Col Napier Holden, trumpeter Sher Singh, two ‘jamadars’ (minor officials), five ‘daffadars’ (cavalry sergeants) and 12 cavalrymen, in the Battle of Haifa.
 
 As per archival records, the Jodhpur Risala had also fought wars for the British empire in Aleppo, Jordan Valley and France, said RSAB director Mahendra Khadgawat.
 
 “The documents reveal untold stories of valour. Already, one crore documents have been digitised and 80 lakh records uploaded, including those related to both world wars,” he said.
 
 They highlight forgotten war stories, including four years of glorious service in France. “Not many of us know that Sir Pertab Singh of Risala was awarded the Legion d'Honneur by French president Raymond Poincaré in 1920, and the Grand Cordon of the Order of the Nile award for bravery in  ,” Khadgawat said.
 
 The Risala had served in the World War I from August 1914 to November 1918, including four years of fighting in trenches in France. “The forces took time to acclimatise in the harsh French weather. Later, they were moved to Palestine in February 1918 as they were not able to charge on horses due to the rugged terrain,” said war historian Brigadier S M Jodha, whose grandfather, Captain Aman Singh, was the officiating commander during the Battle of Haifa after the demise of Dalpat Singh.
 
 Terming the bravery and valour displayed at Jordan Valley in adverse conditions as historic feat, he said, “The valley is known for its hot and humid climate. There was fear of diseases to both soldiers and horses. The historic day came on July 14, 1918, when the Risala charged on the enemy and cleared a bridge from the Alliance forces of Turks, Germans and Austrians. The battle helped the Allied forces to advance,” said Jodha. Dalpat Singh was awarded the Military Cross for his bravery in the battle.
 
 After Haifa, on October 26, 1918, the Risala advanced into Aleppo. The battle was forgotten under by the end of WW-I. “The 400-strong Risala fought a battle against 3,000 Turks and captured the strategic locations in the city and forced the enemy to retreat. A day later, the enemy advanced with reinforcements and led to casualties in Risala. But they held on to the territory,” said Jodha.
 
 According to RSAB documents, the Risala was formed in 1888 by Sir Pertab Singh to do away with the old feudal system in which the ‘jagirdar’ (feudal lord) supplied horses and men to the maharaja of Jodhpur. This is the only unit to have fought in China during the Boxer Rebellion (1900-01) as well as in France, Flanders, Palestine and   during WW-I.
 
 
