GREATER NOIDA: A delegation of RWA federation comprising of president N P Singh, secretary general A N Dhawan, senior vice presidents Rajendra Shukla, Suresh Tiwari, K K Jain, vice president Main Pal Singh Yadav and advidor   met Uttar Pradesh Director General of Police (DGP) O P Singh on (Monday) at the collectorate office in Surajpur where they handed over a petition to DGP Singh urging increased police force for the district, more women constables, a commissionerate system for district Gautam Budh Nagar and more. The DGP assured more police force for the district in a month's time as recruitment of 35000 constables is currently underway. A women's police station with more female constables and stringent measures on law and order.

 DGP Singh was on his maiden visit to   (since taking charge in January) to launch an automatic challan generation system at Jewar toll plaza and also announced the opening of a new police station along the   in order to improve law and order situation in the area.
 
 "We had a very fruitful meeting with DGP Singh today where we apprised him of the increasing crime rate in the region. We also sought measures especially related to women's safety such as women's police station and more women force along with the demand fir increased force for the district," N P Singh president Federation of Noida Residents Welfare Associations (FONRWA).
 
 On the issue of women safety, DGP Singh assured women police station in near future and also assured increased force within a month. "DGP Singh told us that 35000 recruitments are underway in the   out of which some would definitely be posted in district Gautam Budh Nagar in a month's time to cater to increased pressure of understaffed force here," said A N Dhawan, secretary general FONRWA.
 
 RWA federation also asked for a women force, increased fire brigade, a commissionerate system for the district and robust patrolling in residential sectors. Industries delegation under Noida Entrepreneurs Association (NEA) also placed similar demands including security concerns of industrial sectors.
 
 While DGP Singh urged residents to make a plea for commissionerate system with the  ,   vice president RWA federation maintained that each issue was discussed with DGP Singh in detail who assured necessary and favourable action on priority basis.
 
