BATHINDA: Measles-rubella vaccination teams faced protests at   village in Moga and   village in Faridkot, and returned without vaccinating anyone, on Saturday and Sunday as rumours of the "side effects" of the medicine spread on WhatsApp and social media. 

 At Deep Singh Wala, villagers and activists of   Students' Union (PSU) spoke to doctors, but they could not be persuaded into allowing the vaccination to be administered. At Ghal Kalan, the staff of a private school did not allow the team to enter its premises.
 
 Punjab health and family welfare minister   had launched the vaccination drive from Faridkot on May 1. In all, 5,200 teams will vaccinate 73.5 lakh children, aged between nine months and 15 years, in 58,783 sessions. For this, 57,000 volunteers and 49,000 teachers have undergone training. 
 
 To quell any misgivings about the medicine, five deputy commissioners have got their daughters vaccinated.
 
 At Deep Singh Wala, PSU state president Rajinder Singh, who led villagers who did not allow the vaccination team to enter, said the team could not answer several questions posed by them on the ill effects of the vaccination. "We will not allow vaccination till our doubts are cleared," he said.
 
 Faridkot civil surgeon Dr.   said their team answered all questions of the villagers and PSU activists, but they seemed to be under the wrong impression. "We will go there again tomorrow," he said.
 
 A block task force team from   health centre of Moga had claimed that the staff of the private had school misbehaved with its members when they had gone to administer the vaccine to children on Saturday. Moga senior medical officer Dr Indervir Singh Gill has already submitted a complaint to Moga civil surgeon in this regard. According to the school, it was unaware of the vaccination drive, so it did get children vaccinated. The school also denied receiving any letter about vaccination. 
 
 Moga civil surgeon Dr Sushil Jain they had contacted the school now. "The matter is being sorted out," he said.
 
 
