PANAJI: Premium luxury housing in Goa has withstood the regulatory shocks and market dynamics and despite the changing regulatory environment, this segment continues to hold allure for niche developers. With evolving tastes, high networth individuals are also looking at newer locations far from the maddening crowd to call home.

 Policy reforms such as demonetisation, Goods and Services Tax and the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act nearly stalled Goa’s residential real estate sector. But the demand for ultra-luxury housing has been immune to these market dynamics.
 
 
  
 
 “People who have money, have money. Demonetisation, GST or whatever you say, it has not affected them. Market sales were always slow, so there was no impact,” founder chairman of   and director of  , Amit Chopra said.
 
 With prices ranging between Rs 5 crore to as high as Rs 18 crore, only those with considerable capital at their disposal will be willing to fork out that much for what is essentially a holiday home.
 
 A typical luxury home will be spread across 600-800sqm of land with a standalone villa of 400sqm, large open and green spaces and a private pool. The houses are usually a blend of modern amenities and quaint Indo-Portuguese architecture. But it’s not the amenities that decide the price.
 
 “Almost 80% of the people are interested only in the view irrespective of whether it is river view, sea view or field view. The price starts from Rs 8 crore and goes up depending on the view,” says managing director of Sun Estates Suraj Morajkar. “The house has to have double heights like the olden time, the colours, the furniture styling, that is what they buyer is looking for. It’s like giving a home a character,” he said.
 
 Sun Estates, Isprava and Quattroporte   are some of the handful of established builders in this segment.
 
 Given the segment’s niche character, sales volumes are low and a good year could see between 30-50 units being sold in the Rs 5 crore to Rs 15 crore range. Getting it right is tricky, builders will tell you, but if successful, margins can be as high as 100-150%.
 
 And in order to get the home right, location is critical. Currently, the hunting grounds for customers and developers are Moira, Aldona, Keri, Assagao, Nachinola, Siolim, Salvador do Mundo and nearby areas.
 
 “I have seen people moving away from the coastal belt. They may come to the coastal belt for entertainment, but not to live. This shift started two years ago,” said founder of Isprava, Nibhrant Shah.
 
 Interior designer Vikram Goyal and fashion designer Tarun Tahiliani have also ventured into the business of turning homes into pieces of art for the rich and the famous.
 
 Shah does warn that if entire Goa turns into a mass market tourist destination, there could be troubled days for the luxury housing segment.
 
 
