MUMBAI: Bharip Bahujan Mahasangh leader   who lead a Dalit protest march of around 15,000 people at Azad Maidan on Monday threatened the state government of a much larger agitation if their demands were not met in eight days. 

  The day-long protest was to seek the arrest of rightwing leader  , alias Guruji, of the extremist outfit Shiv Pratishthan for allegedly instigating violence against Dalits at Koregaon-Bhima near Pune on January 1.
 
  
  
 
  The police denied permission for the planned route of the Elgar Morcha (Byculla to Azad Maidan; 'Elgar' is a Marathi battle cry). So, it was changed on Sunday evening and protestors were called directly to Azad Maidan. 
 
 An eight-member delegation led by Ambedkar met CM Devendra Fadnavis, but didn't get a firm assurance. "I am not satisfied with the response given to us. Fadnavis has said action will be initiated in eight days. We will give them the time they have sought. If nothing is done, I will expose all those who are not taking any action. Then the government shouldn't say I am launching a personal attack on anyone," said Ambedkar.
 
 He said the main person behind the January 1 violence is Bhide, yet he hasn't been arrested. He said the role of Milind Ekbote, who was arrested on March 14, was next in importance.
 
 Later, in the legislative council, revenue minister Chandrakant Patil said it was the state government which sought a warrant for Ekbote's arrest. "He managed to get bail, but we pursued the issue in the Supreme Court and this is what led to his arrest," he said. "We have to consider the sentiments of people, but we also have to ensure that the sentiments don't get out of hand."
 
 Union minister of state for social justice Ramdas Athavale demanded an investigation and called for evidence before Bhide is arrested. "The riot was pre-planned... The government is not trying to protect anyone, but the police should do a thorough inquiry," he said. "There is no acrimony between Dalits and Marathas. But if a Dalit is attacked, the Atrocities Act must apply. There must be some fear about the Act." 
 
 The issue was raised in both Houses of the legislature. Legislators in the state council demanded answers from the state government on why Bhide hadn't yet been arrested "even almost three months after the Koregaon-Bhima violence".
 
 
