KOCHI: The state government has made a payment of Rs 58 crore to the   district cooperative bank to close a loan taken by government medical college almost 15 years ago, clearing a major hurdle in the way of securing the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board ( ) nod for granting funds for the development of Government Medical College, Ernakulam.

 
 The district cooperative bank was given a loan of Rs 25 crore while the hospital was under the management of   ( ).
 
 As the CAPE failed to pay back the loan, the principal amount and interest together grew and touched Rs 90 crore. The debt has been a major reason for the delay in getting the final approval of the KIIFB for Rs 370 crore super specialty block project. Last year, the government paid Rs 32 crore towards the repayment of the loan. “Clearing all existing dues is important for getting funds from agencies like KIIFB. Now that the medical college is free of debt, the KIIFB is expected to give the approval for the project soon,” said an official associated with the project.
 
 
 The project envisages construction of super specialty block, staff quarters,   for ladies and gents, common amenities centre and indoor stadium cum auditorium and gymnasium. The funds will be allotted in a phased manner. The KIIFB is expected to release the funds for the construction of super specialty block first. The funds for other structures will be allotted in subsequent phases. The director board of KIIFB would meet in mid-April and the tender proceedings for the specialty block project is expected to begin in May. “It will take around two months for completing the tender procedures and awarding the work. The construction work may begin by end of June,” said an official.
 
 
 The construction of the super-specialty block is estimated to cost Rs 200 crore. The block will house departments of nephrology, gastroenterology, cardiology, neurology, neuro-surgery apart from operation theatres. The equipment, furniture and furnishing for the super specialty block may cost around Rs 25 crore. The staff quarters will cost Rs 78 crore while PG quarters will cost Rs 29 crore. The common amenities centre to come up as part of the project will cost Rs 12.23 crore while indoor stadiumcum-auditorium and gymnasium will cost Rs 6.38 crore.:
 
