PUNE: Looking at life with a pinch of humour is what helped   sail through difficult times. This attitude is reflected in her play ‘Drama Queen’, which is a wacky take on her life after divorce.

 “It is about the aftermath of happily-ever-after. It is like rewriting a fairy-tale. It is important to tell such stories because they are reflections of reality. It gives people a more honest perspective of how life can be,” said the 42-year-old actress. The play, which is an adaptation of her memoir with the same title, will be staged at   on February 10. 
 
 “I believe serious things can be best said with humour. Hearing the title, a lot of people tend to think it is a serious play, but it is not. I laugh at myself and hope the audience laughs with me too,” she said.
 
 The book, which   describes as “fictionalised version of facts”, was originally called ‘Irresistibly Single’ as it explores the ups and downs of her life after divorce from director   and her craving for love and security. “It was my publisher Hachette who suggested this name and I gladly adopted it as the title and used the same for my play as well because the narrative is over the top,” she said.
 
 Speaking of the woes of converting a 240-page book into a 75-minute play, Krishnamoorthi said, “I used trial and error method and prepared several drafts before zeroing in on a single one.”
 
 Recalling the time before the premier of the play at National Centre for the Performing Arts in Mumbai, almost a year ago, Krishnamoorthi said, “On the opening night I was in panic mode. Before the play started I thought of telling the producer that I would finish the shows that are booked but then I don’t think I can do it anymore.” However, the play has evolved since then and so has the protagonist. “The response is truly inspiring. A lady in Kolkata touched my feet and said that she had never seen a woman being so upfront,” she said.
 
 Many also criticised her for her liberal approach. “After a show in Mumbai, a lady started yelling at me. She was of the opinion that a mother should never remarry as the sole purpose of life was to live for her child,” she said.
 
 
