TAHNE: Suburban commuters are unlikely to get any respite from inconvenience this   as the   is apparently non-committal about operating special services on the Thane-Kalyan routes during flooding in Mumbai section.

 A proposal was put forth by passenger activists from Thane and suburbs to operate   services between Thane and Kalyan, Karjat and Kasara during heavy rains when there is flooding on the section in Mumbai. The request, say activists is valid as the section, especially the fast corridor till Thane is not flooding-prone where trains can be operated smoothly for the benefit of commuters staying in distant suburbs. 
 
 Several commuters including those who avail the Transharbour services travel to and from Thane and operating special services would also benefit them, justified activists.
 
 “The movement of trains in the suburban section will ensure there won’t be any crowding on stations or trains stranded midway in the section, which often forces passengers to jump and walk on the tracks that could be dangerous,” said activist Shashikumar Nair from Thane.
 
 The request was made at a meeting of passenger activists with senior railway officials at the Mumbai headquarters Friday afternoon wherein the former was apprised with the preparations being made by the administration. The railways apparently wanted feedback from activists for their new plans wherein they wanted to operate trains as per holiday timetable on days when there is heavy rainfall and chances of track inundation is high. 
 
 Activist and newly appointed member of divisional railway users consultative commitee, Adesh Bhagat, from Diva who was also at the meeting said a need for involving the road transport agencies was also discussed. “Residents from suburbs like Diva, Dombivli have to rely on the railways as it is the fastest mode of transport. If the railways propose a cut down in traffic then the local agencies like KDMT, TMT and MSRTC should also be requested to operate more services,” said Bhagat.
 
 Meanwhile, the railways said they would ensure that they would announce their revised plans, if any, about curtailment of services, a day in advance when heavy showers are expected over Mumbai. Also, a plan to completely stop plastic on railway premises will be enforced from June 23 along with installing plastic bottle crushing machines at 29 stations. 
 
 We suggested that the railways operate services between Thane and Kalyan suburbs during disruptions in Mumbai to ensure that suburban passengers aren’t inconvenienced. Trains are unnecessarily bunched on the Thane-Mumbai stretch when it can be kept moving to and from Thane-Kalyan
 
 
