CHENNAI:   
 , who has been facing opposition flak for “interfering” and “undermining” the state administration by holding meetings with officials and interaction meet with people, sought to list out the problems faced by the citizens in his speech at the 68th   celebration in Chennai on Friday. “After meeting the people during my district tours, I have come to realise that people have been waiting for house site pattas and civic amenities such as water supply,” the   said.

 Flanked by chief minister Edappadi K Palanswami and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam, Purohit unfurled the national flag at the Marina.
 
 When Purohit began visiting the districts to interact with officials in November, opposition parties, including DMK and Congress, slammed the ‘BJP-led Centre of trying to rule the state by proxy as the elected AIADMK government had grown weak.’ The AIADMK, however, had rejected the allegation.
 
 Nearly 10,000 people thronged the promenade of the   to witness the ceremonial march-past by contingents of the Army, Navy, Air Force and the Coast Guard, among others.
 
 
 
 
 The governor has so far visited Coimbatore, Tirupur, Tirunelveli, Kanyakumari, Cuddalore and Thanjavur. Recalling his visits, Purohit said, “The people soughtbenefitsunder the marriage assistance and employment schemes.”
 
 The 77-year-old quickly added that the state administration istoiling hard tosatisfy all these requirements promptly and in a peoplefriendly manner.
 
 The governor lauded the past achievements of the AIADMK government in health and education sectors. “There have been a number of important governance measures in the past where Tamil Nadu has shown the way for other states in India. Among these, special mention needsto be madeof theNutritiousMidday Meal Scheme, the Old Age
 
 Pension Scheme, the Maternity Assistance Scheme and the Urban Canteen Scheme (Amma Unavagam),” he said.
 
 Purohit also complemented the AIADMK government for reviving the practiceof‘Kudi Maramathu’, a scheme aimed at maintenance of water bodies through the participation of local population.
 
 In regard to administration, Purohit said the government servants must heed the words of Mahatma Gandhi: “Recall the face of the poorest and the weakest man or woman whom you may have seen, and ask yourself if the step you contemplate is going to be of any use to him or her”.
 
 Purohit listed out the initiatives of the BJP-led central government such as Digital India, Skill India, Stand Up India, Start Up India, Make in India and the urban renewal projects under the AMRUT scheme. “Operating in the background of the initiatives taken in the last few years, India is on the threshold of becoming theJagathGuru (spiritual master) of the world,” Purohit said.
 
 
 
