Shimla: The lack of playgrounds, facilities for nursery and kindergarten (KG) classes besides shortage of teachers and mid-term transfer of teachers were the factors responsible for low enrollment rate in the government schools of the state. This has been revealed in a State Council for Educational Research and Training (SCERT) report on the enrollment rate in the state schools.

 After discovering that there was low enrollment in the government schools despite the free distribution of school uniforms, books and mid-day meals, the state government had asked the SCERT to conduct a survey and list the reasons.
 
 The education department would now analyze the report submitted by the SCERT and rectify the shortcomings pointed out in the report.
 
 Education minister Suresh Bhardwaj said the state government was committed to developing basic infrastructure in all the educational institutes and providing better environment for learning.
 
 He said the SCERT had conducted this survey for the first time and would help in formulating better education related policies in the future.
 
 He said the state government aims to provide quality education and to achieve this, clubbing of nearby schools could be considered. This would help in improving the teacher-student-school ratio besides ensuring adequate teaching staff, he said, adding, the government would give priority to filling up teachers’ vacancies in the rural areas.
 
 The state-level committee on employment generation and resource mobilization in its report submitted to the previous Congress government had painted grim picture of the education system in the government institutions in Himachal Pradesh.
 
 It said that during last ten years enrolment of students in the government schools had come down drastically, which reflected on falling standards of education in the government schools. It said parents were sending their children to private schools and the numbers of private schools as well as enrolment in these schools had gone up by leaps and bounds during the last ten years.
 
 
