GHAZIABAD: FIRs have been registered against local branches of two nationalised banks in Ghaziabad for sending fake demonetised notes to the tune of Rs 36,000 to the  . 

 In separate FIRs, the police have booked the Modinagar branch of   and the Navyug Market branch of   for transacting fake currency notes. Sources said the FIRs had been registered after the claims department of the   informed SSP Hari Narayan Singh about the fake currencies.
 
 The FIRs were registered under Section 489 (A to E) of IPC, which pertains to various offences involving currency notes. While the branch manager of PNB cited lack of infrastructure for failing to examine the notes, officials of the Central Bank of India could not be reached despite repeated attempts. The FIR against the PNB branch was registered at Modinagar police station on January 6. It was alleged that Rs 34,500 that the bank had sent to the RBI in denominations of the old Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 currency notes was fake. Sources said there were 33 500-rupee notes and 18 1,000-rupee currency, all of which was fake. The FIR against the Central Bank on January 2 said that there were three 500-rupee notes that were fake.
 
 The Ghaziabad police have started an investigation to ascertain the channels through which the   had been deposited during the demonetisation days. “Cash sent to the RBI by different banks are routinely checked for counterfeit currency. In the past one year, some amount of cash had been sent from the Punjab National Bank in Modinagar to the RBI, which found that Rs 34,500 was in fake currency. Fake notes were also sent from the Navyug Market branch of Central Bank of India. These notes will now be sent to the Union government’s printing press in Nashik. A probe is underway to ascertain the channel through which the notes reached the bank,” SSP Singh told TOI.
 
 According to police sources, the RBI had zeroed in on the two branches after an internal inquiry. The police are also trying to find out the time period when these notes had been deposited, the sources said.
 
 
