PUNE: Barring a few incidents, the   ( ) went off peacefully in the city on Sunday. In some cases, however,   late were not allowed to appear for the exam and, at a few centres, candidates’ shirt collars were cut off in compliance with the dress code. Over 20,000 students appeared for the exam from Pune.

 Students found the Chemistry and Biology sections easy, while the Physics section, some said, was tougher. According to experts, a score of around 135 marks would be the probable cut-off for admissions to medical colleges. 
  
  
 At the Bharati Vidyapeeth Secondary and Higher Secondary School in Dhankawadi, candidate Mauli Karande from Solapur, reached the centre three minutes late and wasn’t allowed to appear for the exam. Karande said, “The reporting time was 9.30am, but I reached three minutes late and I was disallowed from appearing for the exam. Now, the entire year will go waste. I will have to wait until next year to give the examination.”
 
 On every candidate’s admit card, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), which conducts the examination across India, has categorically mentioned that students entering the examination centre beyond the given time would not be allowed to enter the hall.
 
 At a centre in Pimple Saudagar, going by the rules, exam supervisors cut off the collars of at least 8-10 students. The dress code mentioned by CBSE states that candidates are now allowed to wear collared shirts. Despite the specific rule, many arrived at the examination centre wearing shirts with collars. A student said, “As soon as I reached the centre and showed my admit card, the supervisor, who had scissors in his hand, cut off my shirt collar. Many other students had to face this situation.”
 
 Another student, on condition of anonymity, said, “At our centre, the invigilator gave the bubble sheet at least 15 minutes late and we lost out on precious time to solve the paper.”
 
 As for the actual examination, founder of IIT Pratishthan Kendra Durgesh Mangeshkar said, “The Physics section was lengthy as many questions were calculation-intensive. About five questions in the Biology section were beyond NCERT textbooks. This year, the cut off may go down by about 10-15 marks as compared to last year.”
 
 Mangeshkar added that most students found the Chemistry section easy but it did have conceptual questions.
 
 Rajshekhar Ratrey, vice-president of Toppr.com, pointed out, “In terms of difficulty level, NEET 2018 was slightly easier than last year’s papers. Most questions were not time consuming. There were similarities between weightage of marks in this paper and the class XII syllabus. Physics was the toughest section among the three subjects.”
 
 
