HYDERABAD : The Telangana government’s prestigious Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project (KLIP) has created an Asian record, construction major Larsen & Toubro (L&T) claimed on Sunday after taking up massive construction work on a single day.

 On Saturday, 7,000 cubic metres of concrete work was taken up by L&T to complete the Medigadda barrage as part of  . According to officials, this is a record in Asia.
 
 The state government has taken up KLIP to irrigate 37 lakh acres in about 15 districts of Telangana. The irrigation project is being taken up at a cost of ?75,000 crore. Both chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and irrigation minister   are keen on completing the project partially by June this year and complete it by the end of the year.
 
 KCR visited Medigadda barrage, Kannepally pump house and Annaram barrage in   district in December last year and directed irrigation officials to complete the work at the earliest.
 
 “In order to ensure water to Yellampally project from Kaleshwaram, the chief minister asked us to complete the project works before monsoon. When chief minister visited Medigadda, daily 1,200 cubic metres concrete works were done. Now, it has reached to 7,300 cubic metres in a day,” state irrigation minister Harish Rao said.
 
 Irrigation officials said the feat was made possible due to coordination between various government departments and the project contractor. Since chief minister’s tour, a total of 5.39 lakh cubic metres concrete works were done, including 78,000 cubic metres cement.
 
 Officials said to meet the demand of materials, the contractor enhanced plant capacity from 390 cubic metres to 870 metres. The number of workers engaged in work was increased to 3,000 from 1,250 with more site engineers involved.
 
 Harish Rao congratulated L&T and officers involved in the works for setting a record. He hoped the work would continue at the same pace. The minister said Kaleshwaram project has several other records in terms of land acquisition, tendering process, getting clearances from   and forests.
 
