UDAIPUR/AMBASSA (TRIPURA): BJP national president   launched the party’s election campaign in   on Sunday with two rallies at tribal-dominated Ambassa and Udaipur.

 “What has the   government done in 25 years?” Shah asked a huge rally at Udaipur, headquarters of the Gomati district, about 43km from state capital Agartala. Answering his own question, Shah said, “It would be unfair to say he hasn’t done anything. He has robbed lakhs of people of crores through the Rose Valley scam. PM Modi will not leave any of the accused who are involved in the chit fund scam.”
 
 He claimed that Sarkar didn’t allow the CBI to investigate the scam in the state to save his cabinet colleagues and top leaders of  . In June last year, the CBI had questioned a minister from the Left Front government in connection with the scam. “Manik Sarkar has portrayed a falsely constructed image of the cleanest and poorest chief minister of the country, but after 20 years of his uninterrupted leadership, it has only been proven that he is the most corrupt and antidevelopment chief minister of the country,” Shah said.
 
 Shah — accompanied by BJP national general secretary Ram Madhav, Tripura election in-charge   and state BJP president Biplab Kumar Deb — launched a four-pronged attack on the CPM government’s “corruption record, failure to tackle crime, poor development and the absence of welfare programmes”.
 
 “The rule of law is absent in Tripura. All criminals belong to CPM and the Left Front government is protecting them,” he said. “The law and order situation is very concerning where six BJP leaders and two journalists were killed in the last six months. But the state government is not willing to ensure impartial inquiry.”
 
 Shah, in an attempt to woo tribals, said, “Tribal people are dying of malaria and water-borne diseases. The autonomous district council is functioning like a department of the CPM government. But BJP is committed to the development of tribals on par with others.”
 
 He, however, stayed out of the contentious issue of statehood for tribals — something BJP has managed to do by directing the conversation towards the elevation of autonomous district councils to state councils. Shah promised that BJP would bring in “vikaas” through employment generation, better infrastructure and improved education and health services.
 
