NEW DELHI: In a setback of sorts for the country’s top boxers preparing for the   and the  , their proposed visit to the Michael Johnson Academy and High Performance Centre in Texas has been cancelled after majority of them failed to secure visas with the US embassy for lack of proper documentation.

 
 
 The academy visit was planned from May 1 to 18 and a total of 22 men and women boxers, including those who participated at the Gold Coast CWG, were to attend the strength and conditioning camp. The trip was specifically planned keeping the Jakarta Asian Games in mind because the competition level in Jakarta will be much tougher than what the pugilists faced at the CWG.
 
 TOI was the first to report in its edition dated April 18 that the US embassy had refused to grant visas to women boxers L Sarita Devi (60kg), Lovlina Borgohain (69kg) and male pugilist Amit Phangal for submitting improper documents. It’s been learnt that some other boxers failed to clear the interview round.
 
 The   Federation of India (BFI) tried its best to get the nearly three-week long camp going for the senior boxers by doing the necessary paper work. Still, the boxers couldn’t clear the visa hurdle because the US government has introduced stricter visa rules for those looking to visit the country.
 
 Left with no choice, the BFI has started its search for a new training academy for its boxers. Starting the visa and documentation process all over again will take its own time which would mean the boxers will have to wait for the foreign exposure trip.
 
 “The academy visit formed a very crucial part of our Asiad and Worlds preparation. The academy has a world-class facility, quality sparring partners and in-house coaches. Boxers from other countries also train there. The boxers would have benefitted a lot from the US visit, but getting the US visa has become increasingly difficult,” a BFI official told TOI.
 
 This is the same academy where batting great Sachin Tendulkar underwent rehabilitation following a surgery on his tennis elbow. In near future, the BFI plans to send its boxers to Serbia and France for invitational tournaments.
 
 
