CHANDIGARH:   (SAD) on Friday submitted a memorandum to the Election Commission demanding deployment of paramilitary force for the   assembly bypoll scheduled for May 28. The party alleged that chief minister Amarinder Singh was violating the model code of conduct and threatening law enforcement agencies.

 The delegation included SAD MPs Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, Balwinder Singh Bhundur and Naresh Gujral, besides the party’s senior vice-presidents Maheshinder Singh Grewal and Daljit Singh Cheema. The delegation told the chief election commissioner () Om Prakash Rawat that the chief minister was allegedly resorting to phone tapping of rivals. The delegation members also asked the chief election commissioner to inquire into all violations of the model code of conduct.
 
 Alleging violation of the model code of conduct, the delegation submitted on May 7 the chief minister held a press conference on the Shahkot by-poll in his official capacity at the Punjab Bhawan in Chandigarh with senior government officials. It was also submitted the chief minister carried out a campaign against Mehatpur police station SHO associated with the conduct of the Shahkot by-poll. The delegation members also submitted the chief minister by welcoming leaders of other parties into the   fold had also violated the model code.
 
 Dhindsa briefed that the chief minister in an official meeting also functioned as Congress’s spokesperson and issued a clean chit to Congress candidate Hardev Singh Laddi Sherowalia even though his own police had booked Laddi in an illegal mining case. It was also submitted that Amarinder also said Mehatpur SHO Parminder Bajwa had been in contact with SAD and AAP political leaders on telephone mentioning specific timing that makes it clear that the state government was involving in phone tapping.
 
 The SAD delegation demanded a detailed inquiry into the alleged pressure on the Mehatpur SHO to withdraw his decision to register FIR against Laddi and the incidents of phone tapping.
 
 
