MEERUT/BAREILLY: Union finance minister   on Thursday announced that the minimum support price (MSP) for notified kharif crops would be 1.5 times the cost incurred by farmers for its production. Farmers in  , however, said increasing the MSP was impractical as there was no way to calculate the exact cost of the crop. Industry associations, too, were unhappy with various provisions.
 
  National convenor of  , Rajendra Singh, said, “Government says it will give one-and-a-half times the cost incurred by the farmer on his crop. But there is no way that cost can be calculated. Will it include yearly wages? Will the rent of land be included for landless farmers? If not, then this promise will be an empty one."
  
  National spokesperson of   Rakesh Tikait said, “Raising MSP isn’t the solution. The government needs to look into farmers’ basic problems. A national committee on agriculture to look into these problems is yet to see the light of day.”
  
  VM Singh, national convenor of Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Sangathan, said, “We have several doubts over the government’s intention. First, raising MSP of crops was a poll promise of the BJP in the 2014 LS polls. It has come four years late? Second, there is no mention of marginal farmers who grow vegetables and suffer the most. UP’s recent potato crisis is a case in example.”
  
   , a farmer-leader in west UP, said it was more important to ensure that benefits reach farmers rather than raising the MSP. “MSPs were increased by previous governments too. But red-tapism didn’t allow farmers to sell their crops at those rates. Those leakages need to be plugged first,” he said.
  
  Chairman of Meerut chapter of Indian Industries Association, Atul Gupta, said, “There is no mention of simplification of GST provisions which have crippled the industry. Though the FM has announced a package of Rs 3,794 crore for credit support in the MSME sector, there is no talk on the much-needed simplification of archaic laws and tedious procedures. Is that the ease of doing business?”
