MUMBAI: Stalls exhibiting cookies created by Tihar jail inmates sit cheek by jowl with lovely lac jewellery from Telangana and wall hangings with beautifully embroidered zari zardozi woven on the streets of Benares. West Bengal’s tant sarees vie attention with dexterously-designed batik-printed clothes created on the cavernous handlooms of Indore (MP). And the famous, aromatic kakori kebabs of Lucknow compete with the mouth-watering Rajasthani thali of bajre ki roti, kadhi pakoda, ghee shakar and an assortment of chutneys and chaats.

 The   (till January 10) at   ground at   lives up to its declared motto: Crafts and   ka sangam (a confluence of crafts and cuisines). A ministry of minority affairs’ initiative, the exhibition-cum-sale aims to help protect and promote India’s traditional crafts and cuisines, especially created by Muslim artisans for generations. “It is to encourage artisans to come out from their familiar but low-paying small home markets to bigger platforms and better buyers,” said minority affairs minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi over the phone from Delhi. Naqvi added that a year or so ago he thought of Hunar Haat, which has now been held at several places, including Delhi and Puducherry, before it reached Mumbai.
 
 “The ministry allots free stalls and reimburses travel and accommodation costs during the exhibition. This is a good platform to publicise our products,” said Mohammed Nayeemuddin, a lac jewellery shop-owner from Hyderabad. Abdul Manjid, whose footwear shop sells Jaipur juttis, was happy to be here but wanted the ministry to do more. “We should get more loans and b allowed to participate in more than one exhibition yearly. I hope to get good orders in bulk apart from selling in retail,” added Manjid. BJP city vice-president Haider Azam who attended the exhibition’s inauguration on January 5, praised the government. 
 
 “This exhibition once again dispels the blame that our government is anti-minorities. Most stalls here are owned by   and it is heartening to see so many talented Muslim artisans showcasing products. The artisans needed encouragement and this haat is exactly helping doing that,” he said.
 
 Buyers from the city and beyond are trooping to the venue. Panvel resident Ranjana Sakhre travelled for two hours just because she cannot resist the joy of seeing such an eclectic collection of works by traditional artisans. “These are poor artisans who have come with great hope from our city. Even if I have many pairs at home I want to buy another piece to promote our handicrafts,” said Sakhre, who had just bought a tant sari from Bengal’s Tushar Islam’s shop.
 
 And once you have purchased lac bangles, cane and bamboo chairs and trays, purses and dining mats made of jute or natural grass and gorged on Pawan Jain’s famous chaat or Chef Ashraf Ahmed’s Mughlai cuisine, try chewing flavoured paan at Dilli Paan Bhandar outlet. The experience will leave a good taste in the mouth without punching a big hole in the pocket as the products are reasonably priced.
 
 
