BENGALURU: After facing the wrath of farmers over the Mahadayi issue,   leaders are now set to deal with yet another crisis on the farm front: agriculturists from across Karnataka are now targeting the Centre, demanding crop loan waiver by commercial and scheduled banks.

 Some farmers under the aegis of the newly formed Rashtriya Kisan Maha Sangha (RKMS) have decided to lay siege to   in New Delhi in February if their demands are not met.
 
 
  
  
 
 Seeking to escalate their struggle by roping in their counterparts in other parts of the country, RKMS is convening a meeting of farmer leaders from various states in the national capital on Tuesday and Wednesday.
 
 “We want to take the fight to the national capital and mobilize support from across the country,” said Kurbur Shanthakumar, convenor of RKMS and president of All-India Sugarcane Growers’ Association. With Karnataka slated to go to polls by May, the farmers’ demand that the Centre come up with a loan waiver scheme has put BJP on the spot. The farmers obviously are buoyed by the decision of the Congress-led government in the state to waive cooperative bank loans.
 
 “The state has eased the burden on farmers to an extent, though it’s not adequate. We expect a more generous move from the Centre, if at all it wants to prove that it is pro-farmer,” said K S Sudhir Kumar, Mandya district president   (KRRS). “We are demanding a full loan wavier by the Centre, unlike the state government’s partial waiver of outstanding crop loans,” he added.
 
 The Centre needs at least Rs 43,000 crore to waive outstanding loans of over 1.25 crore farmers in the state. The outstanding amount ranges betweenRs 50,000 and Rs 5 and averaging at Rs 1.5 lakh per head. This is an uphill task, given the sluggish fiscal conditions in the country post GST.
 
 “The Reserve Bank of India guidelines do not encourage any government to go for this kind of loan waiver scheme, while it calls for constructive measures to bail out the agriculture economy. In the present fiscal situation, such a move would not be seen as a prudent economic solution,” said  , assistant general manager of Syndicate Bank, lead bank of   (SLBC).
 
 In June 2017, chief minister Siddaramaiah announced a crop loan waiver scheme, according to which loans up to Rs 50,000 availed by each farmer were written off. As 22.27 lakh farmers were to benefit from the scheme, the state government set aside Rs 8,165 crore for the purpose. Siddaramaiah has since been demanding that the Centre too do its bit by announcing a loan waiver.
 
