CAPE TOWN: Two batsmen caught behind, one at gully, one at second slip. Two leg-before. One caught and bowled. That summed up the story of India's top order, which fell apart against occasional but quality swing and customary pace from the South African bowlers.

 It wasn't the quality of the attack alone that the Indian batting line-up fell prey to at the Newlands Cricket Stadium late on Day One and early on Day Two.
 
 The first to go was  . A poor shot off   wasn't just the only reason leading to his dismissal caught at gully. It was the way Philander prodded him to play outside the line and kept bowling wider which blanked the batsman of his wits.
 
 The second in line was Vijay's opening partner  . The left-hander did worse. He tried pulling a short-of-length delivery from Dale Steyn that rose sharply at good speed. He could have merely patted it down, knowing the day's play was coming to an end. Yet, he went for a horror of a stroke and the edge ballooned high up in the air, back into Steyn's hands.
 
 If the setback wasn't enough already, skipper   followed them in quick time. In contrast to what   had told TOI earlier this week - to move one's feet to move in line with the ball and not let the upper body compensate for that movement - Kohli tried nudging a short one from  . Result? Caught behind. On Saturday,   failed to block a fast one from Kasigo Rabada, the only SA pacer until then not to have picked a wicket. The ball was heading for the middle stump and it was plumb. Sharma still opted for the review, less in doubt and more in hope.
 
 The biggest setback came when a possible lapse in concentration during the lunch break caught the otherwise focused   off guard. That moment undid all the hard work put in when a delivery from Philander moved away and the batsman still decided to pursue it, albeit loosely. It went straight into Faf du Plessis' hands at second slip.
 
 India will do well to figure ahead of the second innings and the second Test where they went wrong. Several reasons could be attributed but none among them will justify the brain freeze that made their worst fears come true.
 
 The batting lineup went ahead and did exactly what they weren't supposed to do. 
 
