NEW DELHI: Citing the case of sewerage work in east Delhi’s Shahdara that has been going on for a decade after its deadline of 2007, CAG rapped Delhi Jal board for “ad-hoc planning, lack of due diligence and failure to respect timelines”. The central auditor’s reports pointed that despite spending Rs 10.9  , the main objectives of stopping sewage overflow near VM College and surcharge the existing sewers in the catchment area to stop polluting the Yamuna had not been met.

 Recalling the tangled path that the east Delhi project has taken, the report said   cancelled the contract in August 2009 after completion of 25% of the project for which Rs 1 crore had been paid to the contractor. “DJB re-awarded the balance work to a new contractor at cost of Rs 4.8 crore with some amount to be recovered from first contractor. The second contractor too could not complete the work, and DJB short-closed the contract by paying Rs 2.9 crore. An amount of Rs 6.88 crore was also paid as road restoration charges to the road-owning agencies. Even the completed portion hasn’t been put to use since 2011,” the report noted.
 
 In its response to the CAG’s red flag, DJB said first contract was cancelled due to non-performance, while it short-closed the second contract because the required 16-feet-deep excavation work could not be carried out due to heavy traffic on the road crossing, underground utilities and the subsoil condition. CAG said DJB’s response was non-tenable and non-acceptable because the water board should have known about these impediments. “Besides, DJB hasn’t done any analysis as to how much of completed work could be used when sewer-laying work on gaps at four crossings is completed in 2018,” report added.
 
 CAG also criticised DJB for the lack of synchronisation in procurement of equipment worth Rs 3.18 crore for renovation of the filtration system in the Chandrawal water treatment plant which led to equipment lying unused for over six years. “Though the civil construction work of the filter house was taken up, the contractor procured the equipment between 2009 and 2011. Foreclosure of the work rendered equipment unusable and the same is idling since purchase,” CAG said. The audit report also raised doubts about the utility of this equipment since it had remained unused for such a long period of time.
 
 CAG has also raised questions about the way the 25 MGD sewage treatment plant in Yamuna Vihar was constructed.
 
 
