Actor   scoured 30 houses before she found this first-floor, sea-facing apartment in Bandra, Mumbai. She wanted a space that resonated a calming and restful vibe and was filled with comfortable spots. Also, she desired a home that was textured with her personality.   of The Orange Lane was brought on board, and with equal involvement from the designer and the homeowner, the interiors were given shape. “The house emits a modern chic aura with its exposed brick walls and splashes of colour. It shows 21st-century English styling, just what Parineeti wished for,” Shabnam Gupta says.

  
  
 
 
 
 
 : Parineeti Chopra
 
 : Bandra, Mumbai
 
 : 2015
 
 : 262 square metres (2815 square feet); 2 bedrooms; 3 bathrooms; dining room; living room; den; balcony
 
 : Shabnam Gupta, The Orange Lane
 
 The actor’s apartment opens into a neutral-toned living room awash in natural light, where warmth and style take centre stage. The white exposed-brick accent wall, Chesterfield, tufted ottoman-cum-coffee table, zigzag-pattern rug, red hand-painted trunk – all the elements were carefully handpicked by Gupta to create a comfortable, distinctively stylish scape. Impossible to miss is the expansive balcony, seamlessly connected by sliding doors, which offers sweeping views of the deep blue sea. 
 
  
  
 
 
 “The living room has been designed as a modern space where the white of the walls is contrasted by pops of colour, like through the red side table, the patterned rug and the abstract painting,” Gupta says. 
 
 
 The balcony has been designed as a casual, outdoor lounge that complements the living room and becomes an extension of it when needed. The dark wood flooring, custom seating and soft, recessed lighting contribute to creating a calming, vibrant space. Panels of glass installed under the railing run the length of the balcony, while the upper section is left open, covered just by the semi-transparent blinds. During hot spells or rains, these can be pulled down, keeping the seating area weatherproof.
 
  
  
 
 
 At the other end of the balcony is a vertical garden and a jhoola seat. A distressed-wood door opens up to a powder room. “The green patch and the pebbled stone pathway in the balcony help create a comfortable, Zen outdoor space, which Parineeti desired,” Gupta says. 
 
 The powder room pulls in a bit of the quirk through industrial elements. A pair of antique sewing machine stands are used as counter support. A dramatic concrete ceiling, rippling with arches and vintage bunker lights, complements the wall finish and black slate stone on the floor. “The brass in the scissor lights, mirror and shallow basin unites the room into one seamless fabric,” Gupta says.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 The dining area is essentially the other end of the living room and has been designed in Gupta’s signature style – layers upon layers, contrasting patterns, infused with colour with a strong eclectic vibe. “A black-and-white herringbone pattern, using sea-green and black slate strips set in the pale floor, lies as the base for the dining table,” says Gupta. What catches the eye, though, is the zany installation on the wall above the console. “I love this piece – it is made of retro fibreglass telephone instruments and adds an edge to the space,” Gupta says.
 
 
  
  
 
 Gupta has used floor-to-ceiling sliding doors between the rooms for spaces to easily flow into each other. This private den with a herringbone-patterned door of veneer and bison board, connects this area to the dining room. It is an inviting space, with comfort seating and a home theatre system, surrounded by built-in cabinets. 
 
 
 The white-painted surround cabinets introduce dollops of whimsy with back-painted niches, a shelf cut out in the shape of an apple and offbeat accessories. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 The master bedroom has veneer panelling on all its walls. Within this dark-brown shell, the white ceiling, ottoman and bedding provide visual relief and lend a sense of lightness to the space. “Vibrant and fun staples like the throw and the drawer handles really reflect Parineeti’s personality,” Gupta says. The elephant-print cushions, large world map and pink side-table lamps also stand out as hard-to-miss, playful elements.
 
 This space is linked to a balcony deck with vertical green walls and a standalone fan such as you’ve probably never seen before.
 
  
  
 
 The brown-dominated master bathroom gets a pop of colour through the rug, potted plant and the handles on the cabinets. “Parineeti’s love for travel was reflected in the design – we engraved on brass the names of different cities she loves and has visited, installed it on desert teak stone, and used this as wall cladding in the shower area. The combination of the white-mint stone countertop and wooden flooring, coupled with the continuing wooden herringbone pattern, add elegance to the bathroom space,” Gupta says.
 
 
 The second bedroom in the house has been converted into a dressing room. It is an elegantly designed space, made for comfort but high on functionality. A large white-painted art deco unit makes up the vanity area while the door adjacent to it leads to a walk-in-wardrobe. “A glamorous touch to the dresser is given with the bulb lighting all around the mirror,” Gupta says. On the other side of the room is an especially designed shoe alcove.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
