NEW DELHI:   ( ) on Friday approved changes to the   to provide relief to the traders hit by the ongoing  . However, municipal officials said that some of the proposed changes may pose hurdles in providing the desired relief to shop owners in  .

 In the meeting chaired by lieutenant governor  , DDA approved the proposal to give uniform floor area ratio (FAR) in shop-cum-residential plots on a par with residential plots, reduce the penalty on non-payment of conversion charges from 10 times to twice the amount, and allow commercial activities in the basement. However, the proposed changes are subject to availability of parking and statutory clearances, including fire, structural safety, building bylaws, etc.
 
 Municipal officials said that the increase in FAR for shop-cum-residence is subject to “availability of parking space”, which will be calculated as per the norms for residential plots. DDA officials said the local bodies along with traders’ organisations will have to identify and develop parking lots. In case parking can’t be provided, such areas will be declared as “pedestrian shopping streets”.
 
 While the traders’ bodies have welcomed the amendment the master plan, they are opposing the parking clause. “The increase in FAR shouldn’t be linked to availability of parking. Traders are paying parking charges. It is the responsibility of local bodies to provide this facility. We are studying the proposal in detail and will suggest changes to it,” said Praveen Khandelwal, secretary general, Confederation of All India Traders.
 
 Officials added that there is no clarity on ground coverage. At present, 100% ground coverage is allowed in all shop-cum-residence plots, a majority of which are more than 100 sq m in size. “As per the proposed changes, the ground coverage in these complexes will decrease as the norm for residential plots larger than 100 sq m is 75%,” said a senior official from south corporation.
 
 This issue was raised in the meeting by BJP MLA Vijender Gupta, who is a member of DDA. “I have proposed that the shop-cum-residence should be allowed 100% ground coverage. The conversion charges should be as per the category of the colony. The charge should be taken for a period of 10 years,” he added.
 
 The changes will be notified by the Union housing and urban affairs ministry after incorporating public suggestions/objections. The duration of public notice was also reduced from 45 days to three days in the meeting. “The proposed changes will be once again presented before DDA after incorporating public suggestions/objections and then sent to the ministry for notification,” said a DDA official.
 
 Meanwhile, DDA also proposed the norms for redevelopment of godown clusters in non-conforming areas and agricultural land in the meeting. As per the proposal, a cluster of godowns with minimum four hectare of contiguous area and concentration of more than 55% plots will be considered for redevelopment. For this, land owners will have to form a society. Once the cluster is notified by Delhi government, the society can prepare the redevelopment scheme. The scheme will be approved by the local bodies and work would have to be completed within three years from when the plan is sanctioned.
 
 
