NAGPUR: Even as statewide colleges vehemently oppose Maharashtra government’s move to directly deposit scholarship amount into students’ bank accounts,   and special assistance minister Rajkumar   accused them of total non-cooperation. He also admitted that they had found misappropriation of Rs1,826.87 crore in the   of which Rs96.16 crore were recovered so far.

 It’s for the first time that the government came out with official figures related to the scam as against Rs2,174 crores pegged by the Special Investigation Team (SIT) under police commissioner K Venkatesham. These figures were also published in answers to starred queries by the legislators during recently concluded winter assembly session.
 
 “After the government made some changes in the distribution of scholarships, to avoid it from going into wrong hands in the aftermath of scam, the colleges stopped cooperating. The only reason is that they are not receiving any amount in their accounts directly with the new arrangement. Now, the entire money would be first reimbursed into students bank accounts, which are   linked. Later, the colleges fees would be routed through those accounts,” he told TOI.
 
 The minister also admitted that his department had distributed the long pending scholarship amount through offline mode for current academic year, after the agency looking after its portal had declined to renew the contract, leading to its closing down. “We’ve asked the Mastek, which was looking after the portal, to maintain it again. We’re shortly coming up with a new Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) portal for scholarship distribution, which would be linked with Aadhaar,” he said.
 
 On alleged inaction over SIT’s report, Badole said chief minister   had already ordered an inquiry into it and even the Pune-based commissioner along with officials from his department were scrutinizing the report. About 1,704 institutions were named by the SIT on the basis of their audit reports. “Discussions are underway on the chief secretary’s level on how to recover the misappropriated amount from the concerned officials and colleges. Due to news of scam, the centre has reduced the scholarship funds.”
 
 On colleges protesting the government’s move, the minister said their apprehensions were “ill-founded”, as the software would automatically divert college’s share to their account, once the money is deposited in students accounts. “The misappropriation is not the recent phenomenon. It continued from last decade when Congress-NCP were in power. That time, they didn’t take any action to prevent the siphoning of the amount.” 
 
 TOI had first exposed the scholarship scam on August 10, 2014, through a series of reports on how the Social Justice and   departments allegedly distributed a staggering amount of Rs4.34 crore to 2,815 students from 63/250 banned colleges of Nagpur University, ignoring the fact that the students were not enrolled for over a year.
 
 The expose of over Rs7,000 crore scam in the scholarship distribution across colleges in state had already rocked the government and forced it to implement strict measures in the distribution process. The SIT inspected audit reports of just 15% of colleges out of 26,000 institutions while strongly recommending an enquiry from the criminal   (CID) and Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB), to reach the roots and recover the money.
 
 SIT officials however expressed apprehension that no action would be taken against colleges, as majority of them belonged to politicians, cutting across all political spectrum along with education barons. Due to reluctance of the government to either probe the swindle or take action, the scholarship grants received from the centre was yet to reach the beneficiaries.
 
 
