MADURAI: Three year ago, Madurai district forest department initiated trekking activities in a big way under the banner of eco-tourism promotion. New trekking routes were formed and eco-development committees roping in local people constituted. However, after the tragedy at Kurangani on Sunday, trekking activities in Madurai do not seem to be generating much enthusiasm.

 Intriguingly, the city does not lack nature enthusiasts or forums that promote conservation of nature. “Bird watching is more prominent in Madurai than trekking. A lot of migratory birds visit the water bodies in Madurai and it is an interesting hobby for many nature enthusiasts here,” said  , an avid bird watcher.
 
 Rajanna Venkataraman, a nature enthusiast, said that there were a bunch of trekkers in the city too. But the forest terrain in and around Madurai did not have much scenic landscape for trekking. “Most of the treks we did are in Western Ghats and in neighbouring Virudhunagar district which has lush green forests in   and Srivilliputhur,” he stated. Nature enthusiast N Raveendran also seconded the opinion. “Madurai forest terrains are not scenic enough to attract trekkers and the activity is not as popular as in Chennai or other major cities,” he said.
 
 District forest officer J R Samartha said that trekking activities were based on demand in Madurai. Recently, the department had charted out a smaller trekking route of 4 kilometres above   falls, an ideal one for student groups. “Most of the demands we get are for shorter routes not going above 6 to 7 kilometres. We do have such trekking routes in the district at our reserve forests,” he said.
 
 When the eco-tourism development project was launched in 2015, Madurai forest department developed four trekking trails in different reserve forests like Bison Trail, Deer Trail, Hare Trail and Snake trail. Among them, deer trail was not very successful, while experienced trekkers take up Bison trail which is taxing. Other trails are still active, according to the forest department.
 
 Though there are not many trails, trekking here is more disciplined. “Trekkers here take out proper permission from forest department which deploys two watchers from the department and local forest dwellers or tribal people under eco-development committees,” Rajanna says.
 
 The ideal size allowed for trekking is a group of 20 and no young children under 12 are allowed. Trekking is also timebound from 7 am to 2 pm and the activity is allowed from September to December. All must wear full clothing and shoes are mandatory. Interested trekking groups should place the application and submit a declaration of their members. “Based on the application, we will schedule the activity and deploying two guards to watch front and rear of the trekkers’ column. Two or three more EDC ( ) members will also be deployed for guiding the trekkers,” Samartha said.
 
 As all trekking activities came to a standstill after the Sunday incident, the department is awaiting fresh guidelines. “We have suspended all trekking activities and are waiting for the revised guidelines after March,” Samartha added. 
 
 
