JAMSHEDPUR: Unsuccessful bids to flare up sentiments with communal tinge within short spans in the   have made the home department take precaution and improvised the public-police interaction and augment the thana-level peace committees. 

 In the last 10 days, three bids were made by miscreants to create trouble in different parts of the city. In view of such activities, the police have engaged the peace committees to strengthen the intelligence sharing network, catch rumour mongers and identify the troublemakers so as to ensure that threats to law and order were averted. 
 
 Beginning with  , Azadnagar and Olidih localities on Sunday, the police have decided to hold peace committee meeting at all the sensitive police station areas in the Dhalbhum sub-division. 
 
 Top police officials, who chaired the meeting at the forest guest house in Mango, urged the attending volunteers to cooperate with police in ensuring peace and order in their respective police station areas. 
 
 Superintendent of police (city) Prabhat Kumar, who chaired the meeting, told the attending volunteers that frequency of such meetings will be increased and at the same time called on the volunteers to carry out their responsibilities effectively.
 
 Other police stations such as Jugsalai, Sakchi,  , Bagbera and Pursudih among others will also host peace committee meetings in the coming days, police sources said. 
 
 "With   approaching, we have to prevent hostilities and need to organize such meetings at the thana level," said a police official, who was part of the meeting. 
 
 Police are of the belief that frequent meeting with the peace committee volunteers at the station level will not only improve the intelligence sharing network but would also establish bonding and confidence between the cops and the common man and would eventually aide in identifying rumour mongers and troublemakers. 
 
 On January 15, a clash broke out between two communities at   in Kovali police station area when devotees were returning after offering Tusu prayers at   hillock. On January 26 too, another clash broke out in Jugsalai police station area on a petty issue of blaring "vulgar" songs during an immersion procession of Goddess Saraswati idol and on Saturday night, unidentified miscreants tried to create communal flare-up by pelting stones on a Mosque in Munshi Mohallah in Mango police station area. Swift response from the police following closure of the shops by panicked traders prevented further escalation of hostilities.
 
 
