COIMBATORE: A group of activists who attempted to prevent sand smuggling in the Noyyal were booked under theft case by city police, while the driver of the truck with the smuggled sand was let off.

 The activists, comprising college students and youth wing members of PMK, who got to know about the plundering of the Noyyal river sand from a recent TOI report, tracked the truck with sand from Alandurai village and followed it till   on Friday morning.
 
 Around 8am, when the truck reached CODISSIA grounds on Avinashi Road, they blocked the vehicle and staged a protest. They also prevented the driver from escaping. Raising slogans against sand smuggling, the activists demanded that the district administration prevent the plunder. They also demanded that police officials to come to the spot and take action against the driver and all those behind the smuggling racket.
 
 Police who reached the spot around 9am questioned the driver of the truck. The man claimed that it was not river sand and it was M sand. He also claimed he had all the documents required for the legal sale of sand. However, the protesting activists refuted the claim and maintained that it was indeed river sand. “It looks like M Sand. It will be confirmed after an RDO inquiry,’’ said   inspector V Selvaraj. TOI also has photographic evidence showing the truck with river sand.
 
 Police detained 34 of the activists, including  , 29,  , 30, R Rajagopal, 44, S  , 47, G Rajesh, 38, Logamuruganandham 32 and S Kannan, 35, and took them to a wedding hall. Later, based on a complaint from the truck driver, the activists were booked under several sections of the Indian Penal Code such as 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 379 (theft).
 
 The truck driver, however, was let off though the vehicle was held back at the Peelamedu station.
 
 Ashok Srinithi, state deputy secretary of the PMK youth wing, said they had been tracking the truck from Alandurai. “We have photographic and video proof that sand is being smuggled from the Noyyal river bed. When we intercepted the truck, the driver apologised to us and accepted that it was river sand. But after the police arrived, he started claiming it was M sand. One look at the sand and anyone can prove it that it is not M sand,” he said.
 
 Deputy Commissioner, law and order, Coimbatore city police, S Lakshmi, said the youngsters were let off on bail. “But we will proceed with the case since they assembled without informing police and staged a protest.’’
 
 On the allegation of smuggling, she said the revenue divisional officer has been informed. “The RDO will conduct a probe. We will hand over the truck with sand to the RDO,’’ she said.
 
 The police said they had booked the activists because the truck driver complained he was manhandled by them. The theft charge was slapped on them because the activists attempted to ‘steal’ the driver’s phone, police said.
 
 
