PALANPUR/AHMEDABAD: In a grim reminder of the seven-year-old boy’s murder in   in Gurgaon, the murder of a class III boy in a village near Mehsana has turned out to a horrid crime committed by his 14-year-old schoolmate and friend.

 Mehsana police arrested the class VIII boy after rigourous interrogation on Friday and he has confessed to killing nine-year-old Hiren Thakor in   ( ) village near  . The reason for the murder has turned out be a fight over snatching kites. 
 
 It was on December 23 that Hiren father had lodged a complaint with Satlasna police after he did not return from the school. After nearly 10 days, his body was found dumped in a pit just behind the school’s staffroom on January 1.
 
 Mehsana superintendent of police,  , told TOI that the accused juvenile and Hiren were friends as their houses were opposite each others. 
 
 Hiren often used foul language and hurled expletives at the accused, who, in return used to thrash him. “Hiren’s mother would then go the accused’s house and pick up a fight with his family members for beating her son. The deceased’s father also used beat up the accused and this happened at least 2-3 times a week,” Mandlik said. 
 
 On December 23, Hiren and the juvenile went to fly kites and they also had ‘jhattu’, a specially made wooden stick to snatch the cut kites from the air. While playing, Hiren snatched the jhattu from his hands but the duo again started playing.
 
 After sometime, both jumped the school’s compound wall and it was here that the fight erupted between them. The accused asked Hiren to return his stick and the snatched kites and both started fighting on the staircase. When he refused, the boy hit him twice behind the ears. Hiren then started abusing him. 
 
 In a fit of rage, the 14-year-old dealt him a brutal kick and as a result Hiren came crashing down from the staircase. When he continued to hurl expletives at the accused, the latter smothered his face. Suddenly, the boy got flustered seeing blood oozing out from Hiren’s mouth. He took a piece of cloth and wiped the blood. However, he noticed that his own clothes as well as the staircase got stained by blood. 
 
 When Hiren died, the boy got even more scared and decided to dump the body somewhere. He left the body on the mezzanine and went to the castor fields located just behind the school to find a suitable place to bury him. However, seeing a girl washing clothes there, he rushed back. 
 
 “He then noticed a pit behind the staff room and decided to bury him there. He started dragging down Hiren’s body but noticed two people waking pass the staircase. The boy again dragged the body up and did this at least 5-6 times. After ensuring that no one was there in the campus, he buried the body in the pit, threw mud on his pants and arranged big stones by the side,” said Mandlik.
 
 Undigested khichdi was a vital clue
 
 Ahmedabad: Nine-year-old’s murder was one of the toughest cases for the Mehsana police teams to crack. With no CCTVs installed in the village and scarce mobile network, there were hardly any clues that the teams got initially. 
 
 However, the first and the most imporant clue came after the forensic post-mortem of the body, which showed that there was undigested vaghareli (tempered) khichdi and tuver sabji in his stomach.
 
 “The undigested food indicated that Hiren died within two or two-and-half hours of having the meals. The food was served in the mid-day meals on December 23 at 10:30am and the accused boy was one of those serving other children,” said Mandlik.
 
 The school timings end at 12 noon and police had to probe as to who all Hiren had met between 12noon and 1pm.
 
 “We questioned few people and stitched their statements together, which finally led us to this 14-year-old boy,” said the SP.
 
 There was no one in the school as most children either go home or in their fields.
 
 Mandlik said initially it was difficult for them to suspect this class VII boy in murder case. But he showed them all the locations and ultimately broke down during questioning.
 
 
