GUNTUR: The biggest railway junction in the state, Guntur, is growing even bigger. Neglected for decades, the Guntur station will set to emerge as the capital city railway junction. With the railway board putting all developmental works granted in the last budget on fast track, the   is in renovation mode.

 The look of the station will change completely on the west side, and a new sign board will come up here. The welcome arch-cum-sign board will be designed to reflect Amaravati’s culture. 
 
 A new building will be constructed on the west side by completely demolishing the existing structures. The new building will be designed in such a way that it would create additional amenities for passengers, including a  , a  , and refreshment stalls. Additional ticket counters will also come up.
 
 The railway board has granted about Rs 8 crore for the construction of the new building, with additional facilities. The new building will also be designed to provide ample parking space. The idea to renovate the west end of railway station was taken after deciding to use platform no-7, which so far been kept ideal, for express trains. The platform-7 extended to handle express trains with 24 coaches.
 
 The shortage of long platforms is forcing authorities to take all the express trains to platform-1 on the east end. Sometimes, officials have been compelled to halt the express trains either in Nallapadu or in outskirts of the city when 2-3 express trains arrive around the same time. The availability of platform-7 will help handling express trains without trouble.
 
  DRM VG Bhooma told TOI: “We have decided to go for big changes, as Guntur is going to become a major junction of the   With more trains expected to be operated via Guntur, creation of additional facilities has been put on fast track.” 
 
 Besides construction of new arrival block on the west end, works for a   connecting all platforms has also started. The railway board granted Rs 6 crore for the construction of the foot-over bridge. “We have planned provision for construction of two escalators, and a lift at the station for the passengers,” said Bhooma.
 
 
