SHIVAMOGGA: Dissidence and   by disgruntled candidates has touched its climax in the district causing trouble to   and  . The two parties are finding it hard to thwart the move of rebel candidates from contesting the election against the official nominees in   Rural and Sagar constituencies. 

 Belur Gopalkrishna, who failed to pursue BJP state president BS Yeddyurappa to cancel the ticket given to Haratal Halappa in Sagar, has announced that he will contest as a rebel BJP candidate. Alleging that Halappa, an ‘outsider,’ has clinched the seat by paying huge sums of money to Yeddyurappa’s kin, Belur said he will show his strength and defeat Halappa. He will file his nomination papers from Sagar on April 23. 
 
 Both BJP and Congress are facing piquant situation at Shivamogga Rural reserved constituency. Former BJP MLA Kumaraswamy and three of his friends, who had applied for the party ticket and who belong to the majority Bovi community, have turned rebel. One of them is likely to contest as a rebel BJP candidate against official nominee Ashok Nayak, a member of the Banjar community, whose numbers are very less in the constituency. Congress too is facing a similar situation. The party has selected Dr. Srinivas, a first timer and son of former MLA Kariyanna as the official nominee. Shivarudra Swamy, a retired income tax official belonging to the Bovi community, has announced to contest as a rebel candidate from Congress. He will file his nomination papers on Friday.
 
 Similarly, Mohammad Sanaulla from Bhadravathi, former deputy mayor of Shivamogga and KPCC general secretary, tried his best to get a Congress ticket, but failed. The party selected Sangamesh again as its candidate. Sanaulla, with large backing of the Muslim community, has announced that he will file papers as a rebel Congress candidate.
 
 Insiders in BJP and Congress said dissidence and anger will harm the prospects of official candidates and help others.
 
 Candidates file papers
 
 Candidates of all major political parties filed their nomination papers on Friday. Sharada Purya Naik, the only woman candidate representing Shivamogga Rural constituency, who won 2013 elections with a thumping majority, filed her papers as JD(S) candidate on Friday. RM Manjuanth Gowda from Theerthahalli, who recently shifted his alliance from Congress to JD(S) filed his nomination. Three BJP candidates Araga Gyanendra from Theerthahalli, Kumar Bangarappa from Sorab and Haratal Halappa from Sagar filed their nominations before the returning officers of their respective constituencies.
 
 Dr Srinivas, physician at a government hospital, resigned from his service to contest from Shivamogga Rural. He and businessman Raju Tallur, both first timers, filed their papers as officials Congress candidates.
 
 A number of Independent candidates have also filed their nominations in all the seven assembly segments in the district. April 24 being the last day for filing nominations, a large number of aspirants have announced that they will file their papers on Monday, which is considered to be an auspicious day. 
 
 
