CHANDIGARH: As Central government has approved Rs 4,511.91 crore   for the upcoming financial year of 2018-2019 to Chandigarh, starting from the month of April,   administration has prepared a list of around two dozen major   estimating from Rs 5 crore to over Rs 250 crore for the new financial year and submitted the details of the same to the ministry of home affairs. 

 “We have sent a list of the crucial projects to the central government since a detailed plan will have to be formed. All such projects have been kept in the new budget passed by the central government for Chandigarh. Senior officers of the UT and even Central government have been reviewing all such projects from time to time to know their status,” said a senior UT official.
 
  
  
 
 UT has kept prominent projects for   services in its list of major projects submitted to the ministry of home affairs. The authority has kept Rs 72 crore for the construction of 6 GHS (government health services) for providing dispensaries and health centres to come up in  , Raipur Kalan and Mauli Jagran.
 
 Though some of the projects have been started in the current financial year, these would take five to six years’ time in their completion. 
 
 The proposed project of construction of new emergency block in-front of block-A in GMCH, Sector 32, is another crucial health project for the upcoming financial year, which will cost Rs 41 crore. Moreover, the construction of sports injury centre in Sector 32 A is another project kept for the new financial year which will be worth Rs 36.24 crore. Construction of 50-bedded hospital in Maloya will cost Rs 23 crore, construction of a block in Government Rehabilitation Institute for Intellectual Disabilities, which would cost Rs 13 crore are also part of the list. 
 
 Construction of administrative block in Chandigarh College of Engineering and Technology, Sector 26 costing Rs 15 crore, construction of hostel block in Government College, Sector 46 costing Rs 14.50 crore, intelligent traffic light management system worth Rs rupees 46.65 crore are some of the other projects to be started in the new financial year.
 
 Some projects which have already started and would be carried forward in the new financial year include holistic development of   and   high court, makeover of high-level bridge of Dhanas, improve the cycle tracks of inter-sections, construction of new secretariat in Sector 9, construction of three mini sports complexes in sectors 8, 39 and 27. 
 
 
