Nagpur: Soulful melodies that continue to rule the hearts of music lovers since decades and the new generation brand of songs cast a spell on the audience during ‘Melodies Night’, organized by Sur Sangam at Arpan Hall of Vidarbha Sahitya Sangh, Mor Hindi Bhavan, on Tuesday. 

 Starting the programme with evergreen romantic song ‘Aaj mausam hai bada’, director of Sur Sangam Surendra Sharma stepped down from the podium and mingled with the audience, drawing repeated claps. He then presented ‘Aye gulbadan, aye gulbadan’ with aplomb.
 
 ‘Dil hai chhota sa’, presented by Hemlata Thakur, and ‘Raat akeli hai’ by Manisha Andulkar, added colour to the programme. 
 
 Solo performances like ‘Tumko dekha toh ye khayal aaya’, ‘Bade achhe lagte hai’, ‘Phir wahi raat hai’, ‘Lakhon hai nigah mein’, ‘Ek na ek din ye kahani’, ‘Pinga ga pori’, ‘Tumse milke’ and ‘Kaun tujhe yun pyar karega’ had their own charm.
 
 Duet presentations like ‘Duniya walo se dur’, ‘Mashahoor mere ishq ki kahani ho gayi’, ‘Itna hai tumse pyar mujhe’, ‘Jo tumko ho pasand’, ‘Mujhe kitna pyar hai tumse’, ‘Tu tu hai wahi dil ne jise’, ‘Kora kagaj tha ye mann mera’, ‘Kya khub lagti ho’, ‘Wada raha sanam’, ‘Deewana mujhsa nahi’, ‘Yuhi tum mujhse baat karti ho’ and ‘Jau dya na ghari’ caught the attention of the audience.
 
 The other singers were Jairaj Markand, Sanjay Patil, Priyanka Shende, Shakil Qureshi and Dhanraj Raut. 
 
 Some instrumental pieces presented by the artistes were lauded by the audience. The accompanying artistes were Prakash Chauhan (guitar), Pawan Manvatkar (synthesizer), Mahendra Watulkar (octopad) and Prashant Nagmote (dholak and tabla). Manvatkar made the music arrangement.
 
 The programme was conceptualized by Sharma and Markand. Qureshi anchored the show and also proposed a vote of thanks.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Sharma said, “Old melodies and today’s music where instruments play a dominant role are trending these days. Therefore, this was kind of a fusion in which old and new songs were presented so that demands of different age groups could be catered to.”
 
 QUOTES
 
 The singers were quite amateur with their approach, but their efforts were admirable. The concept of new and old songs was unique
 
 Madhu Ram | Retired teacher 
 
 It was good to see the singers interacting with the crowd during the performances. Music arrangement was very nice. Such shows should be promoted more and more
 
 Sudesh Mendhe | Govt employee
 
 Concept of the musical show was very creative. Such shows help in connecting the old and soulful to the new and vibrant music. Overall it was a good show
 
 Gajanan Kadu | Lab assistant
 
 
