GURUGRAM:  , a village on the outskirts of the city and next to the  , witnessed an altercation between forest department officials and budding footballers of the academy last week. 

 Claiming that the ground on which the football academy is set falls under the protected Aravalis, forest officials tried to plant trees on the two-acre ground to reclaim it as forest land. Dismissing their claims, the practising footballers said the land belonged to the panchayat.
 
 Ghamroj was recently in the headlines after its resident   — a school bus conductor with a school in Bhondsi — was accused by Haryana Police of the sensational murder of a Class II student of the school, but later given a clean chit in a second inquiry by the CBI. 
 
 It has also recently emerged as a budding nursery for Indian football, having produced several national-level players, including 10 who have represented different professional clubs across the country in the I-League.
 
 Mahesh Raghav, coach of Ghamroj football academy, said, “There are 100 players who practice on this ground daily. On February 5, forest officials wanted to snatch this land from us, which we resisted. This land belongs to the panchayat and we won’t give it to anyone.” Ghamroj sarpanch Nirmala Devi said, “This land, which forest department wants to claim, is ours. Two years back, the villagers paid Rs 2 lakh to develop it into a football pitch. We can’t let anyone take it away from us.” 
 
 Forest officials said the land comes under the Aravalis, and can’t be encroached upon. “This land is demarcated as forest area, and can’t be converted into a playing field. The villagers have erected a fence around it as well. We had gone to Ghamroj with orders to plant trees on the land, but were stopped by locals,” said Rashid Ahmad, forest officer. 
 
 The budding footballers said they are being asked to leave because some official doesn’t want Ghamroj to shine. 
 
 “I’ve played in the Santosh Trophy last year. For the past two years, I’ve practised on this ground. The government promises to support grassroots players, but here they are trying to take over our playground,” said Vikram Raghav. “I’ve played in the I-League. It was at this ground that I learned to play. My parents can’t afford to send me to an expensive academy. If they take this ground, where will I train?” said another footballer, Aman. 
 
 Khushi, who has been training here for the last six months, agreed. “This ground has given me hope to follow my dreams. There aren’t many things one can do in Ghamroj. Football has given me life.” 
 
 The village now plans to file a suit against the forest department, if they come to Ghamroj and try to plant trees once again.
 
 
