PANAJI: The   (NIT), Goa, has introduced an annual programme in which its students will interact with successful entrepreneurs with the objective of encouraging entrepreneurship among the students. The institute’s director Gopal Mugeraya said this step will generate employment in Goa in the near future. 

 Mugeraya said this series has been initiated with an aim to push students more towards innovative research, so that NIT-Goa can produce entrepreneurs for sustainable growth and development of society. The theme for the first edition was ‘Relevance of higher education to the industry and entrepreneurship’.
 
 NIT Goa introduced Saavyas, held from February 15 to 17, at the campus. The annual techno-cultural fest has replaced NIT Goa’s earlier student festivals, Technival and Raag. The festival has a lecture series by enterprenuers as part of it.
 
 This year, it included lectures by four enterprenuers on February 15. Rajendra Pillai, head of Turnkey Projects, Edibon International, Spain, spoke of his journey from India to Spain. 
 
 At the end of his lecture, Pillai offered his support to the students and announced that they could work at his lab at Edibon, Spain, to supplement their classroom learning.
 
 Other than the NIT, around 350 students from colleges in Goa and beyond also participated.
 
 Gururaj Hebbar, CMD,   Pvt Ltd, told students that since establishing Hebbar Chemicals in the 1970s, none of his employees have resigned from the company as he believes in lifetime employment. The business now has 14 branches across the country. Hebbar said he believes in retaining ‘intellectual property’ for the growth of his company and that’s the reason there is no concept of retirement in his organisation.
 
 Reliance Industries Ltd, group president, B Narayan said one should stress on critical thinking and that the traditional syllabus must include modules on industry-based cases leading to critical thinking, he said. 
 
 Ashish Machado, managing director of Machado & Sons Goa also spoke.
 
 
