BENGALURU: In a strong rebuttal to accusations of the  , which has launched the Bengaluru Rakshisi ( ) campaign, chief minister   on Saturday said the party which has spoiled the city has set out to save it. He accused the opposition of misleading people through their inveterate lies.
 
  
 “These were the people who made Bengaluru a garbage city and now they are creating confusion by raising the ‘Save Bengaluru’ slogan. This will boomerang as people will further lose trust in them,” Siddaramaiah said after releasing the government’s vision document titled Nava Karnataka Vision 2025, which lays out a growth plan for the next seven years.
 
 Pointing to the 2006 decision taken by the BJP-JD(S) coalition government to merge 111 villages, seven municipal councils (CMCs) and town municipal towns with Bengaluru, he said it was taken without understanding the feasibility or putting in place the required systems. “After including more than 500 sqkm into the city corporation limits, they didn’t take steps to provide civic amenities and water supply to the new areas. We are now trying to provide the same by spending crores of rupees,” he said.
 
 In an oblique reference to the BJP’s corruption charges against his government, Siddaramaiah said opposition leaders have been a stumbling block to development. “Whenever the government launches a developmental project, they say they smell graft. I think some people’s noses can smell only bribe and corruption,” he quipped.
 
 Countering BJP’s charges of the law and order situation deteriorating in Karnataka, Siddaramaiah said the state is on top when it comes to attracting investment, which he felt couldn’t have been possible if the allegation was true.
 
 “Karnataka occupies the 10th spot in the   ( ) report. States ruled by those making allegations figure between the first and ninth positions. Karnataka has attracted Rs 1.54 lakh crore investments and Gujarat, which ranks second, hasn’t achieved even half of it,” Siddaramaiah said. 
 
 The CM said his government has laid a strong foundation for Karnataka’s development and the vision document provides the roadmap for future development. “We’ve fulfilled 155 promises out of the 165 we had made in our election manifesto. Now that we have prepared the vision document for 2025, I am confident of implementing it since I am sure of coming back to power,” he said.
 
 He said the vision document prepared by government officials after taking feedback from people from all 30 districts is a live document to which people can add their views.
 
