Following a student’s suicide last month and two stalking related complaints from girl students, the authorities of the   ( ) have initiated law awareness and confidence building sessions in the campus. Welcoming the move, the university students are also suggesting the fixing of loopholes in the system and initiating similar awareness sessions for boys.

 Initiated with the Physics and Chemistry departments, the sessions will gradually be conducted in each department of the varsity. Speaking about her experience, Bhawana Keswani, a research student at the university, said, “I think the most important thing that we got to know through the session was to overcome fear and keep the wrongdoer engaged till help arrives and action is taken.”
 
 Another student, Rupali Kulkarni, added, “Many students have inhibitions about approaching the police fearing what the reaction would be. However, we got a chance to interact with police officials during the session and got a good idea about approaching authorities.”
 
 The university authorities are also boosting their   drive. “Considering many fake profiles, lewd comments from followers and many more things happening on social media these days, we have asked police officials from the Cybercrime Cell to guide students. During these interactions, we make students aware about precautions to be taken while accepting friend requests from unknown persons etc,” informed Suresh Bhosale, director of  , SPPU.
 
 However, citing the recent incidents, SPPU students highlighted the existing issues regarding campus security that they feel should be addressed at the earliest. Vrushali Sonar, a post graduate student, informed, “Security personnel need to be smarter. Guards appointed at the   refused to help a student in distress outside the hostel premises citing orders that they were to stay at their allotted spots.” She also added that awareness sessions should also be conducted for boys in order to change their mentality and thought process.
 
 
  
 
 The university operates a cab service for girls between 6.30-10.30 pm but students say that between 9-9.30 pm there are no drivers available. “The cab is provided by the varsity to commute from the main gate to the hostel, But, between 9-9.30 pm, there is no driver available as it’s dinner break time. I think there have to be backup drivers so that we don’t have to travel alone in the dark,” said a student, on condition of anonymity. Taking note of this situation, authorities have assured that an alternate driver will be available for the service during the sinner break as well.
 
 During the course of the session, students were given a first-hand demonstration of how the 100 police helpline works. “On the training day, the security department asked a girl to call the 100 helpine asking for help. After the call, the police control room was constantly in touch with the girl asking her location and the type of emergency she was facing, while help was on way. They kept connecting with the girl till they were informed that this was a part of a demonstration. This not only helped us in understanding the work process but also gave us confidence that the police have our back,” said Shabana Shaikh, a post doctorate fellow at the university.
 
 
