GURUGRAM: A day after a man was arrested for selling cow meat in Saraswati Kunj area, a local court on Thursday sent him to 14 days  . Police on Wednesday seized at least 20kg meat from Jaydul Sheikh, a resident of West Bengal, and a veterinary doctor preliminarily certified it as  . A sample was sent for testing to a government lab in Hisar.

 On Wednesday, members of the cow protection group apprehended Sheikh with a packet of beef in the Saraswati Kunj area. They   him and someone made a video of the same. Later vice-president of Haryana Gau Raksha Dal Jitendera informed police about Sheikh and the cow protection group handed him over to a police team dispatched to the area. 
 
 Police said that during interrogation, Sheikh accepted that he was selling cow meat for the past one month. “He was produced before the court from where he was sent to 14 days judicial custody,” said sub-inspector Balraj, adding that they were investigating the case.
 
 Haryana Gauvansh Sanrakshan and Gausamvardhan Act 2015 bans sale of all kinds of beef, including packaged beef, in the state. A person convicted of cow slaughter can be sentenced up to 10 years in jail, apart from being fined up to Rs 1 lakh. There is provision of additional imprisonment of up to one year if the fine is not paid. 
 
 If any person is found exporting cow for slaughter either directly or through his agent, he or she can be sentenced to jail for up to seven years and fined up to Rs 70,000. 
 
 Cow slaughter and beef sale are non-bailable offences under the Act. Additionally, during the trial, the burden of proving innocence is on the accused. 
 
 In November 2017, seven persons were booked at Ferozpur Jhirka police station in Mewat under the Act for allegedly selling beef biryani. In January 2017, Gurgaon police arrested two persons from Sohna Road and allegedly recovered nearly 900kg beef from their car. 
 
 Even in that case, the Haryana Gau Raksha Dal members had alerted police about the accused carrying meat from Mewat to Delhi via Sohna Road.
 
 
