CHENNAI:   rail moved a step closer to commissioning of the   2.5km stretch of the line, the last mile link of the Central to   corridor-2 via Koyambedu.

 A trial run was conducted on the underground line using a metro rail train on Friday, as track and electrification work has been completed, Metro rail will invite now invite the commissioner of railway safety to carry out an inspection. Trains have been running from   to St Thomas Mount and airport via Alandur.
 
 Once opened, trains will start running along the entire Corridor-II (Green Line) of Chennai Metro Phase-I Project and will offer connectivity from Central railway station and Egmore railway to Chennai Mofussil Bus Terminus at Koyambedu, the intermodal hub Asar Khana at Alandur and the airport. Central metro will also allow commuters to switch between metro rail, MMC to Tiruvallur western suburban line, Beach-Tambaram southern suburban line and Beach-Velachery MRTS line. Travellers who arrive by express trains will be able to reach Chennai airport faster and vice versa.
 
 Metro rail authorities are planning to open the line for services in coming four months (April-May) after commissioner of metro rail safety conducts a final inspection and trial run, which is well within the deadline. An official said some more finishing work needed to be done at the stations, entry and exits and a few other areas while tunnel, tracks, electrification and signalling work are over and the trial showed that the line is ready for train services.” Trial runs will continue in coming weeks, said officials CMRL has completed work only on the upper level of the hulk of a station from where corridor 2 begins while work is going on at the lower level where Washermanpet-Central-Airport line will wind into the building. Sources said that this portion of the station and the underground line is likely to be opened by end of the year.
 
 Work is being completed in phases as Central metro station is the biggest underground station where two lines converge and also offer interchange to suburban and MRTS lines. However, it will take longer to complete the   project which will include beautification of the area around the Central metro station by adding bus bays, commercial complexes, park benches, landscaping and other work.
 
 
