With barely one month left for their in-semester exams and three months to go for their semester exams the students of vaious colleges under the Sinhgad Technical Education Society have found themselves in a rather unusual predicament. An ongoing   by the teaching and non-teaching staff of most of the institutes under the society, resulted in barely 10 days of   over the past two months. The staff have been on strike since December 18 because of salary arrears over several months. Thanks to this, no classes are being taken, projects and placements are on hold and even the quality of their mess food has deteriorated, claim the students. This has resulted in them writing to the varsity, asking the authorities to postpone the in-semester examinations.

 
 
 “The management is not serious about the issue. Our in-semester exams scheduled next month will carry 30 per cent marks of the semester. But hardly 10 days of lectures and practicals were held this semester. How can we appear for exams? We have asked the varsity to postpone the exams and give us time to complete the syllabus,” said Sitaram Gosavi, an engineering student from Lonavala Campus. “Proper practicals were not conducted due to the strike and most of the time it was the lab assistants who helped us. Even if we complete the practicals, how will we understand the subject,” said a student of the information technology stream of Kondhwa campus, on condition of anonymity. Some students claimed that even the online exams, that carry equal weightage, were conducted by the lab assistant.
 
 
 Many students have been trying to prepare for the exams through self study, but Sagar K, an engineering student from Vadgaon campus said, “Self study won’t help in every subject. There are few subjects for which books are not available easily and we rely on lecturers for notes.” 
 Besides having no proper notes to study from, Pharmacy students claim that they have no access to the animals required for their projects due to the strike. Rohit Gurav, a Pharmacy student said, “We file a requirement during the committee meeting and the animals are sent accordingly. But thanks to the strike no meeting was held.” 
 Another crucial issue that students are facing is that of placements. “Not a single company is coming to the campus for placement due to the strike. We are losing precious time and opportunities,” said Ajit S, an engineering student.
  
 
 On their part, the management claims that lectures and practical are being held by some staff members who are not part of the strike. But according to students, the number of such staff is very less. “Our campus has 30 teachers out of which 27 are on strike. Out of the remaining three, one is the principal. So how can two staff conduct lectures for all the students? The management’s claim about the lectures is false,” says a student from the Kondhwa campus.
 College authority have also proposed an extension to project deadlines. But students claim that won’t benefit them either. “The management said that we will get six months for the project after completion of the semester, without any extra fees. This will mean a six month delay in getting jobs because we don’t get jobs without a project. And students who are not from city, will have to manage on their own for the accommodation and food during these six months,” Mahesh Marathe, another Pharmacy student added.
 
  
 
