VARANASI: The Ijtema-e-Ruhiyat-e-Helal Committee ( ), also known as Chand committee, that represents over 1,000 mosques in the city, has sought cooperation of the district administration and sought permission for use of loudspeaker for 'azaan'. The committee said that authorities of all the mosques will follow the high court directives to check noise pollution. 

 The IRHC convened a meeting of clerics and mosque authorities at   mosque in   area on Tuesday afternoon. After the meeting, IRHC president Zakiullah Asadul Qadri, Mufti-e-Banaras, Maulana Abdul Batin Nomani, Maulana Harun Rashid Nakshbandi and convener   said that the committee would abide by the HC order on loudspeakers.
 
 They said that during the meeting, the details of HC order were discussed. It was decided that 'mutawalli' of all mosques will fill the form for seeking permission from the authorities concerned. They said that there are over 1,000 mosques in the city but the time for completing formalities to seek permission for the use of loudspeaker has been given till January 15, which is very short. They appealed to the officials to cooperate with the mosque authorities in completing these formalities.
 
 They also demanded provision of submission of prescribed forms at all police stations to avoid problems for mosque authorities and also chaos at one place in case of designating a single office to complete these formalities. The clerics justified the use of loudspeakers for 'azaan', mentioning that it helps in making people aware about the timing of turning up at the mosques for 'namaz'.
 
 The   has asked the state government last month whether the permanently installed loudspeakers at religious sites are installed after obtaining written permission from authorities concerned or not. 
 
 In view of it, the home department of state government started implementation of noise pollution control rules by issuing a government order with detailed instructions. The 10-page-order requires survey of loudspeakers permanently installed and issuing of show cause notice to those using it without requisite permission. 
 
 A format to apply for permission, issuance of permission and action prescribed against those who have neither applied for permission nor complied with terms and conditions of permission was also issued.
 
