NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation ( ) admitted before the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court that it had found many illegalities and discrepancies in the construction of  , including that of fire safety and unauthorized construction.

 A division bench comprising justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and   on Wednesday, asked the civic body to reply on why it hadn’t recovered groundwater rent since last three years from the KSL Industries running the mall, after its water supply was disconnected in 2014 for failure to submit arrears in crores.
 
 The court was hearing a PIL by social workers Chandu Lade and   alleging that the Empress Mall promoters had failed to comply with norms of Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB), Central Ground Water Board, Bombay Shop and Establishment Act, labour Act, and Provident Fund rules. They accused the NMC of failure to act on its own notice to the mall owners of vacating all its establishments, as it was unsafe with regards to fire safety. They prayed for declaring the Empress Mall, as illegal and its demolition as per the law. They pointed out that the promoters failed to pay pending water bills of Rs28 crore, property tax of Rs14 crore, and entertainment tax.
 
 Earlier, the affidavit by NMC additional deputy commissioner Rajesh Mohite through counsel   informed that they had conducted an inspection of entire structure on January 28 and noticed many discrepancies regarding the maintenance of fire safety installations and other contraventions. Accordingly, the notices were issued to KSL Industries under Section 6 of the ‘Maharashtra Fire Prevention and Life Safety Measures Act, 2006’, on February 1. In reply, the respondents informed that they had partially complied with some discrepancies.
 
 Another joint inspection of the property was undertaken by Fire Department and the Building Engineer of   from February 28 and March 3, where structural deviations, unauthorized construction and inadequacies of fire safety measures were found. Accordingly, a notice was served to KSL Industries on why its license should not be cancelled/suspended.
 
 Later, the corporation removed a portion of unauthorized construction after serving a notice to the respondents under Sections 53 and 54 of the MRTP Act.
 
 Prior to this, the promoter had submitted a revised building plan in 2016 which was rejected by the NMC. It was then challenged before the state government, which then allowed the KSL Industries to resubmit corrected plan in January last year. Both these actions were challenged before the HC, which then restrained the NMC from demolishing any part of the Empress Mall, till further orders. 
 
 Kasat informed that the KSL’s revised plan was not as per the DCR and was rejected. Thereafter, NMC reinspected the mall on March 5 and again found unauthorized and illegal construction. Accordingly, a fresh notice was issued to them under the MRTP Act while granting them time of five weeks to reply. 
 
 TOI regularly highlighted illegal constructions carried out by the developers and how NMC was reluctant to take action even after former assistant commissioner of police (traffic) Mahadev Gawde exposed the irregularities.
 
 (With inputs from Subodh Wasnik)
 
 
