Coimbatore: When K Surya Kumar was four years old, his father Kanda Vadivel, a passionate golfer, used to take him to the   course often. It didn’t take long for Kumar to fall in love with the game. And today, he is the only golfer selected from the city and the second from Tamil Nadu to represent the country at the 12th Faldo series Asia grand finale to be held in Vietnam in March in the under-21 category. Along with Kumar, 20 other amateur golfers, including Shiv Narain Srinivas from Chennai, will contest the event.

 “This is my first international event and I am very excited. I have been golfing since the age of seven and I always wanted to become a professional player,” 19-year-old Kumar, a resident of Tatabad, told TOI. At the age of 15, Kumar was placed second in the all-India junior championship and since then he has taken part in several competitions across the country. He is ranked 23rd in the amateur order of merit.
 
 “If I win this tournament, the Indian Golf Union will send me to several international events. My aim is to become one among the top five golf players in the country,” Kumar, who is pursuing BCom at the PSG College of Arts and Science in Coimbatore, said.
 
 Kumar doesn’t find it difficult to balance between education and golfing. He follows a strict fitness regime and takes care of his diet as well that is monitored by his coach Ranadeep Moitra. Malayasian golfer Steven Guliano has also been coaching him for the past two years. “I travel to Malaysia for three weeks a year for training purpose,” he said.
 
 Talking about the lack of infrastructure, Kumar said, “The infrastructure is not sufficient, but many good golf courses are coming up in India. The game is definitely getting its due recognition, with many youngsters doing well at the international level. More tournaments are held now, in comparison to previous years. Golf is very expensive game and toady many companies are coming forward to sponsor the players, which is a welcome move.”
 
 Aiming to represent the country at the PGA tour in the USA, Kumar said he wanted to enter professional golfing next year.
 
 Apart from Kumar, Pranavi Urs (girls’ under-16), Rahul Ajay (boys’ under-18), Harshjeet Singh Sethie (boys’ under-16) and Tanirika Singh (girls’ under-21) will also represent India at the 12th Faldo series Asia grand finale in Vietnam.
 
 The International Junior Golf Academy is one of the event partners of Faldo Series. Recognised as the only global amateur series for boys and girls, the Faldo Series was launched in 1996. Asia was, however, included in it only in 2006. So far, around 40 Faldo Series tournaments have been held in 30-plus countries worldwide, with a participation of 7,000 golfers each year.
 
 
