NAGPUR: On one hand Chief Minister   is holding summits to attract investment in the state and on the other   is doing its best to drive away the existing industries. The state’s industrial power tariff is already among the highest and now the discom is seeking another 30% rise.

 Atul Pande, president of   (VIA), said that this time while the discom had not proposed to increase the industrial energy charges, it wanted to do away with various incentives which would effectively jack up the tariff for factories. 
 
 “This is a midterm review petition and the entire tariff philosophy can’t be changed through this. The petition is completely illegal,” he said.
 
 “Currently, you get load factor incentive if it is more than 75%. The incentive is capped at 15%. MSEDCL wants to provide incentive if the load factor is only above 85% and cap it at 7%. This is disastrous for industries as the incentive helps keep the effective tariff low,” Pande further said.
 
 MSEDCL wants to increase the time of the day (TOD) tariff. “It has sought a hike of 80 paise per unit between 12 noon and 6pm and 15 paise per unit between 9am and 12 noon,” the VIA chief added.
 
 The discom wants to bill the industries on KVAh basis instead of the existing kWh system. This means that unless the power factor is unity, the industry will be billed even if it is not consuming power. The tariff for inefficient industries will increase by 10% solely due to this. MSEDCL also wants to change the definition of contract demand. 
 
 Pande further said that MSEDCL had tried to push the continuous and non-continuous tariff controversy under the carpet. “Instead of showing that it paid Rs1,000 crore to industries for protecting its top officials, the company has showed reduction in energy sales, which is a shabby deception,” he added.
 
 Consumer representative   slammed the discom for not taking industrialists into confidence before filing the petition. “Industries are the paying consumers and they should be given preferential treatment. Instead MSEDCL is sending disconnection notices to them for exceeding contract demand,” he said.
 
 
