
It’s a classic case of destiny pulling out all stops to bring together   and  . No, we aren’t talking about their real life. Incidentally, the actors, who will be seen together on 'Laal Ishq', were in talks earlier for another project. However, things didn’t materialise back then. 
 Priyank says, “We were considered for Radha Krishna around two years ago. However, it wasn’t meant to be. I feel we were destined to come together.” 
 
 
 
 Snigdha A Akolkar, who has played Kaushalya in ' ' and Anjani in 'Karmphal Data Shani', says that the fear of getting typecast as a mother has often made her refuse similar roles. She shares, “When I took up Kaushalya’s role, I knew that the character was strong, it was not just about being Sri Ram’s mother. Anjani was originally meant to be a cameo, but it got extended. However, now I am being offered similar roles and that’s scary. I don’t want to get typecast. I have never understood why someone would cast beautiful girls as mothers and then make them look old. I don’t mind playing a mother if I am offered a mature love story with a strong character graph.”
 
 
 
 Last seen on 'Sajan Re Phir Jhoot Mat Bolo', Kushal Punjabi’s next outing will be 'Ishq Mein Marjawan'. He says, “I play an interesting character, whose mere presence leads to complications, as he oscillates between black and white. He is full of intrigue and mystery, and I’m totally loving his unpredictability.” Kushal will also be seen in an episode of 'Zindagi Ke Crossroads'. 
 
 
 
 Former 'Kasam Tere Pyar Ki' co-actors Kratika Sengar and Pranitaa Pandit’s paths have crossed on more than one occasion. Before starting their acting careers with 'Kasauti Zindagi Kay', the two were flatmates. Pranitaa adds, “We got married around the same time and literally bumped into each other during our honeymoon. We even worked together on 'Kasam Tere Pyar Ki'. My track in the show is over and I am going to miss Kratika’s company, but we will surely keep in touch.”
 
 
 
 Last seen on 'Dil Se Dil Tak', Jasmin Bhasin’s reason for participating in 'Fear Factor:  ' was that she wanted to face her fears. The actress says, “I am scared of water and heights and want to overcome these phobias.”
 
