CHENNAI: The   ( ) has lost a decade-old legal battle against   (CCT) in connection with the Rs 63.86 crore fine imposed on CCT for alleged non-achievement of output targets.

 The first bench of Chief Justice   and Justice   passed the order while setting aside the judgment passed by a single judge dated January 8, 2014, in favour of the Chennai Port Trust.
 
 The issue dates back to December 2007, when the port officials had raised a dispute that the output at the container terminal was not as per the terms and conditions of the licence agreement between the two. Through a communication dated December 17, 2007, CPT informed CCT that it had failed to achieve the required percentage of non-transshipment traffic as per the licence agreement and demanded Rs 63.86 crore. It also encashed the Rs 47.08 crore bank guarantee that had been provided by the terminal.
 
 The dispute was referred to an arbitration tribunal presided over by former Chief Justice of India R C  , with the other members being former judges of the Madras   Justice R   and Justice S A Kader.
 
 In 2013, the tribunal decided in favour of Chennai Container Terminal and directed the Chennai Port Trust to refund Rs 63.86 crore to CCT. Aggrieved by the award, the port trust moved the high court.
 
  On January 8, 2014, a single-judge bench allowed the plea moved by the trust and held that the CPT was entitled to such a demand for non-achievement of output targets.
 
  Assailing the order, the container terminal moved the present appeal with the Madras high court.
 
 When the plea came up for hearing, the bench said, “In our view, the single judge has failed to appreciate the law relating to the setting aside of an arbitral award under the Arbitration Act, 1996.”
 
 Noting that in setting aside the award, the single bench had sat in an appeal over the award, re-analysed the evidence and adopted the minority interpretation out of two plausible interpretations of articles of the contract, which is not permissible under the Arbitration Act, the bench set aside the order.
 
 
