She is composed, beautiful, takes her time answering a question and hates filmi parties. In fact, she’d rather be home watching films and her real friends are still her school and college mates. We chatted up   when she visited the TOI office recently and told us that she loves acting while dreaming of becoming a businesswoman, but avoided getting too personal. Excerpts from the chat:

 
 It’s four months old now (laughs)!
 
 
 First of all, I won’t buy a house because someone else has bought one. Also, I don’t have that kind of money. But most importantly, I’m very happy with the house I now live in with my parents. I can see green fields from my bedroom window. How many get that view? Moreover, my parents prefer to live in a house rather than in a flat. In fact, if I have enough money, I’ll invest in a business that gives me returns and also ensure it provides work for many. 
 
 
 I have two answers to this question. First, I’ve been business-minded for years and have been investing in small funds for 10 years now. That, and my passion for food, gave birth to my restaurant. Second, I’m single and not dating anyone. I have friends to guide me.
 
 
 So? I’m not denying he’s my friend. But he’s just a friend. 
 
 
 Can we talk about work? That’s enough speculation about my love life (smiles).
 
 
 Oh yes! Only then can I learn the nitty-gritty of filmmaking. I want to assist Shibuda ( ), as it’s a mystery how he handles so many kids in his films. I also want to assist Kamalda (Kamaleswar Mukherjee), as he is creatively very sound, and of course, Arindamda (Sil) to learn how to lead a team without losing your temper.
 
 
 2017 was very special to me. Arindamda offered me a film like Durga Sohay, which will always be special. He’s one director who can bring out aspects of actors even they are not aware of. After watching the film, I told myself, ‘So I can do this….’ The way Arindamda pampers and grooms an actor is unbelievable! We are planning another film together where the audience will see me in a different role. 
 
 
 Yes. I guess it will be on the floors from June, as Rajda is busy with his marriage preparations now. It’s my dream to work with him, as I feel his films look so edgy and stylish. I went for the audition of Prem Amar but got rejected. Paayel (Sarkar) bagged the role. Rajda later told me that I’m a powerful actress and that’s what I need to work on. Every role is not meant for everyone. I remember, I didn’t eat for three days and went into depression.
 
 
 She was a better fit for that role in Prem Amar. That doesn’t make her better or worse. 
 
 
 I’m not aware of any such thing. All I can say is that I’m comfortable working with anyone and everyone from this industry. Rudra is part of Flat No 609, though he’s not cast opposite me. So, why should there be any problem working with him?
 
 
 (After a pause) No one can use anyone to further their careers; only talent matters. Many people, including Rudra, helped me at the beginning of my career, but it’s unfair to comment like this. Sadly, no one will say this about a man. 
 
 
 Yes, the outdoor schedule of the film seems to be jinxed. First, we were supposed to shoot at Pattaya, then Goa, and now it was Puri, but that too got cancelled. I don’t know what’s happening.
 
 
 Yes. It is like Salman Khan’s character in Dabangg. I learnt to ride a bike, did fight sequences and even did vigorous police training — something no Tollyood actress has done so far.
 
 
 It touches some real-life social issues and happenings, which the   has asked to mute. But that’s not fair, as one cannot curb creative rights of a filmmaker! When television channels and newspapers show such gory images and incidents, who censors them? Why are all these rules only for filmmakers?
 
 
 I do protest, but the reason has to be very strong. I’m not impulsive or short-tempered, but if I lose my cool then I 
 don’t have any control over myself.
 
 
 Quite positive. People are liking my chemistry with Abir (Chatterjee) in this horror thriller, which deals with what happens after a couple moves into a rented house in Rajarhat. Weird things happen in the house and the film shows whether it’s actually happening or whether my character is hallucinating. Soumitra Chatterjee and Mamata Shankar are also part of the cast and Soumitra jethu used to tell Momodi that she’s still very beautiful (smiles).
 
 
 We are always fighting for no reason! This is my second film with him after Agun, which didn’t release. Abir and I have the same manager, so we do a lot of endorsements together and he always complains that I rush back home after a certain time from parties. After Bedroom, where we didn’t share screen space though we were part of it, I had thrown a party at home. Abir came with his wife Nandini. I’d made biryani, but he didn’t allow Nandini to have it because he was not well. So mean of him, isn’t it? Then again, he once came home for a script-reading session and I remember ma making pithe for him. I got angry and told her is Abir your jamai? Well, then I realised he’s the universal jamai. But he’s also the most mischievous man in the industry.
 
 
 We had some issues, which have now been sorted. I’ll not do a 
 film where I have nothing to do and my screen space is so less. I told Srijit that he has to cast me in a film where I have a meaty role (smiles). 
 
 
 It’s not right to demean someone, where he has no role to play. Why will anyone dictate things to me? In fact, why will I allow that? Rajkumar my friend and I feel bad when people talk such things about him. It was my decision not to do Srijit’s film. 
 
 
 All is well (smiles). At times, we act in front of the media that things are not fine, otherwise how will Miss Honeybee write her column?
 
 
 Don’t we all do that to survive? But I’m true to my audience, as they made me what I am today.
 
 
 
