YAMUNANAGAR: Some villagers of Sabapur were attacked by local mine workers while guarding the village road on Tuesday night. The villagers allege that the ongoing movement of mining tippers and trucks through the village road is causing huge inconvenience to them.

 According to information, mining vehicles move through Sabapur village throughout the day and the villagers are experiencing respiratory and other health problems because of that.
 
 It is learnt that the villagers had taken up the issue with the authorities, and the movement of heavy mining vehicles through the village was fixed between 10 pm and 5 am.
 
 Sources say nearly 12 people attacked the villagers as they stood guard in Sabapur. The whole incident was captured in the CCTV camera fitted near the spot where the attack took place.
 
 “There is a mining zone close to the Sabapur village under the Buria police station, including the   and  , where mining crushers are working legally with the permission from the government. The miners have right of passage through Sabapur,” said   superintendent of police (SP), Rajesh Kalia. There had been earlier instances of disputes between the villagers and the miners, said the SP, adding, “we had to mediate and have fixed the timings for movement of mining vehicles from 10 pm to 5 am”.
 
 The SP said despite the mutual settlement, the dispute between the villagers and miners continued and the villagers were guarding the village road when the incident took place on Tuesday night. “We are working to keep peace in the area and if anybody is found to be breaking the law, legal action will be taken against them,” he added.
 
 Investigation officer assistant sub-inspector   said, the police have registered a case against some people, five of whom have been identified, under Section 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common intention), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the  .
 
 “We have received medical report for only one person being injured in this attack from the hospital and no other reports have come to us. So far no arrest in this matter has been made by the police department and investigation is on,” he added.
 
 
