The harvest festival of Vishu is here and Malayalis all over will be adorning their   in tune with the festive mood. It’s not just the all-out traditional attires they now prefer but something with a twist. We caught up with a few designers from the State to know what’s in this season:

 
 
 
 
 Saris featuring Krishna and murals have fallen out of favour to be replaced by floral print this year. It’s hardly surprising that the designers have added a dash of flowery motifs for Vishu, the festival that marks the beginning of spring.
 Vinitha Mahesh, a designer from Kochi, has brought out a collection named Medapoo, which has floral patterns, and comes in handloom, jute and banarasi silks. “Vishu creates an image of flowers, not just the Kanikonna but also green leaves and those like lotus. The festival marks the arrival of spring which is filled with bright hues,” she says. “We are also doing hand prints of the kanikonna in coloured saris of various fabrics including cotton and silk. I also include the leaves along with the flowers in the designs, be it saris or set-mundu.”
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 The designs have more takers among the youth, she says. “The young girls love them as it gives a graceful look keeping with the traditions. As they prefer pleat-less saris, they like the patterns on the top as well as the pallu portions. Lotus prints too are a hit among women,” adds Vinitha.
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 Neethu Krishna, a designer from Thiruvananthapuram, has taken inspiration from Vishu elements such as thechipoo,   and Kanivellari for her collections titled  .
 “Thechipoo is offered to lord Krishna for puja, and hence I decided to include the flower along with Kanikonna for set-mundus. Vishupakshi and Kani Vellari are hand printed on fabrics including tissue silk and cotton. For Kani Vellari, I have taken the green creepy strings of the plant as design,” she says, admitting that the process is time consuming.
 While ‘unni kannan’ and ‘mayilpeeli’ designs were in vogue last year, this season the designers have decided to experiment with vibrant hues. “That’s why I have been tinkering with designs featuring blue lotus and vines,” she says.
 
  
  
 
 
 Meanwhile, designer   opines that the trend of   was bound to happen sooner than later. “The colour yellow and konnapoo comes to my mind every time I think about Vishu. So personally, I would pick something in mustard colour, especially a kurthi. The festival falls in spring so handwork of floral patterns and embellishments are always good to go,” she says.
 
 
 
 
 
 Meanwhile, Kochi-based designer   attributes urbanisation for the change in dressing styles even during a traditional festival. “People now opt for a dress that can suit multiple occasions. They prefer dresses that will reflect their character and also goes well with every occasion,” he says.
 For his designs, the shades used extensively are ivory white, off-white and generic flower colours. “Everyone is multi-tasking nowadays, so they look for simple yet versatile pieces. Women now prefer trying different layering combinations. This makes it easier to change their looks especially if they have two or more celebrations. They can attend their office Vishu celebrations and add a different layer for their club festivities. Customers also opt for tunics that give a stylish appeal,” he says.
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 One aspect, Sreejith says he has observed is that Malayalis’ festival dressing style has changed and they now prefer a sophisticated, minimal look. “Apart from women, I find that men are also ready to experiment. Instead of teaming up a mundu with a silk shirt, they can always opt for contemporary shirts,” he says.
 
 
