AHMEDABAD : In Patan district, where Dalit activist   set himself ablaze to move the state government from its inertia, 33 Dalits have been living at a ‘refugee’ camp on the premises of a community hall for 15 months after being forced to flee Maniyari village in Chanasma taluka.

 The 33 Dalits are members of six families which had to leave the village after they were attacked by the dominant Patidar community, following a spat over a Dalit boy lighting firecrackers, which the Patidars had objected to. 
 
 One of these refugees, Prahlad Hirabhai Chamar, said that he made numerous representations to the state government and police but they were in vain. There are including 14 children among the 33 Dalits, of which three were born at the relief camp. 
 
 “On November 3, 2016, our children were lighting firecrackers near our settlement. Some Patel community members were drinking liquor at the time and they got angry at the kids lighting the crackers. They first assaulted our kids and when we raised this matter at the village panchayat, the Patidars attacked us, leaving myself and my mother severely injured. After that, despite police being deployed in the village, they attacked us again. We had made several representations for protection to the district administration and police, but as no assurance was given, we left the village to save our lives after the eight accused were released on bail,” said Chamar.
 
 He further said, “We were living at our relatives’ homes initially but since June 14 last year, when we sat on a fast in front of the Patan collectorate to demand justice, the district collector made us to stay at this  .”
 
 He said that they have been depending on daily wages to feed their families. A local activist, Narendra Parmar, said that the district administration allocated a hall named after   as a shelter for 15 months, but no concrete steps have been taken to rehabilitate them securely in their own village.The Patan collector, Anand Patel, was not available for comment on the issue.
 
 Community demands CM’s intervention
 
 The Dalits from Maniyari, who want plots for houses and farmland to make a living, have also written to Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani, seeking his intervention. They have threatened to gherao the state assembly on February 23 if concrete action is not taken by February 22. A dalit activist, Kaushik Parmar, has approached the   (SHRC) seeking its intervention for rehabilitation of these displaced families and action against the accused persons.
 
 
