CHANDIGARH: To fuel its recently-launched social security fund aimed at timely disbursals under welfare schemes, chief minister   on Sunday exhorted the industry to partner the state government in implementing its social welfare agenda by contributing a part of their corporate social responsibility (CSR) to the fund.

 At an interaction with a group of industrialists to get their feedback before finalising the operational guidelines of the new industrial policy, Amarinder mooted the idea of the industry collaborating with the state for a social security network for the underprivileged, especially Dalits. Avon Cycles chairman Onkar Pahwa pointed out that the cost of power was still high for the small-scale industry despite subsidy. Amarinder directed chief principal secretary   to discuss the matter with the small and medium enterprises (SMEs) to find ways of reducing the expenses.
 
 Meanwhile, the need to improve road infrastructure at focal points across the state was a problem highlighted by most industrialists. Amarinder also asked the industry to get together to set up an ITI in the state as part of their CSR ambit. The industry could support skill development of youth, thus boosting employment generation in the state, he added. Capt mooted the idea of industries monitoring the progress in schools. He has promised to look into suggestions by leading industrialists for better ease of business, said an official spokesperson. 
 
 Along with taking feedback from them about state’s new industrial policy and their suggestions on it CM also hosted a dinner for them at his home.
 
 According to sources, one of the major highlights of the meeting was the request by some businessmen to setup a regulatory body to check the mushrooming of engineering colleges, which are playing with the future of students by just awarding them “paper degree”. They said the CM took a serious note of this suggestion and promised action in this regard. In addition to this the issue of high rate of power being charged from small industry and pending VAT refunds were the issues which were raised prominently by businessmen.
 
 
 
 Capt Amarinder Singh said the state was not in a position to provide additional fiscal subsidies, apart from the power subsidy already given to the state, in view of the financial constraints. However, the government would take steps to create a favourable environment by streamlining systems.
 
 
 
