MUMBAI: The city’s lifeline came to standstill for a substantial part of the day as protesters blocked trains at more than a dozen places across Western Railway and Central Railway’s Main and Harbour line.

 Metro services were affected on the stretch between   station and Ghatkopar for nearly five hours. The Railway Protection Force (RPF) and Government Railway Police (GRP) officials were in no mood to antagonise the mob as they were allowed to block the trains.
 
 Protesters cleared the tracks after pleading and prodding by the security personnel. Some of the unruly protesters tried their best to make it violent by destroying the CCTVs and indicators at Kanjurmarg, besides vandalizing the booking office at Dombivli. However, the situation was not allowed to spiral out of control.
 
  
  Stone pelting incidents were reported at Dahisar, Kalyan and Mahim but there were no injuries.
 
 “Senior railway officials were regularly monitoring the situation and security forces made all possible efforts to normalize the situation. Due to these protests about 60 suburban services of Western Railway were cancelled, while more than 200 suburban services were delayed by 10-15 minutes,” said WR’s chief public relations officer Ravinder Bhakar.
 
 CR’s chief public relation officer Sunil Udasi said, “We ensured that trains ran on all the corridors as soon as the protesters were cleared.”
 
 Commuters had a tough time to travel as the protesters ensured that the lifeline of the city remained immobile for most part of the day. Kurla resident   said, “I was unable to get the train for almost 30 minutes at Kurla because protesters had blocked the tracks. Finally, I decided to return home as it would have taken more than two hours for me to complete the journey.”
 
 Borivli resident Rajesh Soni said, “I had some important work at Andheri and travelling by car was risky. I decided to take train but got stuck at Goregaon for almost an hour.”
 
 The impact of the agitation was felt till late in the evening. Thane resident Ajay Shah said, “It took almost two hours for me to reach CSMT as the trains were halting several times in between all the stations.” Mulund Sindhi Colony resident   was returning from Bhuj with her family and 11-month-old son Lakshya in Sayaji Nagari Express.
 
 While the train was travelling between Borivli and  , stones were pelted at the coach.
 
 She went under the seat with her son. Koparkhairane resident Manda Vilas Dangle (52) had come to a charitable hospital near Chowpatty for her cataract operation. Not wanting to miss the date, she came all the way. She was stuck at Dadar while returning home after the operation.
 
 The bandh derailed the plans of long-distance passengers. However, railway officials have not made any announcement on refunds. The services of Godavari Express and   on January 4 have been cancelled. 
 
