SHIMLA: People will get easy approvals for their building plans as the Himachal Pradesh cabinet on Monday approved delegating the powers of director, town and country planning department ( ) to executive officers or panchayat secretaries of 20  . 

 People of these urban local bodies will now get all the approvals and clearances through single window system and will not have to apply to TCP. These urban local bodies include nagar panchayats of Sunni, Kotkhai, Jubbal, Arki, Rajgarh, Shri Naina Devi Ji, Daulatpur, Santoshgarh, Tahliwal, Kangra, Nurpur, Nagrota Bagwan, Dehra, Jwalamukhi, Jawali, Chowari, Sarkaghat, Rewalsar, Karsog and Banjar.
 
 The cabinet, which met under the chairmanship of chief minister  , also accorded approval for supplementary grants for 2017-18 financial year. It approved the setting up of Rs 748.30 lakh regional-cum-facilitation centre (RFC) of National Medicinal Plants Board, ministry of Ayush, in Jogindernagar, Mandi district, along-with requisite staff for running the centre. The Centre will provide an annual grant of Rs 149.60 lakh. 
 
 The aim of this centre is to provide inputs for conservation, cultivation, technology up-gradation, sale of medicinal plants, training and research and development of region specific quality planting material among others. It decided to upgrade the community health centre, Bhawarna, in Kangra district to 50 bed civil hospital besides creating 20 posts of various categories in the hospital.
 
 The cabinet also approved the upgrading of primary health centre,   in Mandi district, to community health centre. It decided to open sub treasury office at Shahpur in Kangra district along with creation of five posts of various categories in accounts and lotteries department.
 
 In its meeting, the cabinet also gave its nod to open a fire post at   in Kullu district and discussed the issue pertaining to recognition of Himachali regional language films and a solution for Himachali film-makers, who make their films in regional language and dialects, so that they could be recognized for awards for such films at national level.
 
 
