PATNA: The state government is using all its resources to meet the June deadline for completion of works envisaged under World Bank-aided Bihar   Flood Recovery Project.

 Following the devastating Kosi floods in 2008, which displaced over 30 lakh people in five districts, the   extended $220 million credit to   government on September 9, 2010. The project became effective on March 8, 2011 and it was initially supposed to be completed by September 14, 2014. The deadline, however, was later revised to June 30 this year.
 
 Aimed at short to medium-term recovery needs of the flood-affected population, Bihar Kosi Flood Recovery Project is the first phase of World Bank-funded flood rehabilitation measures in the Kosi region. The second phase is christened Bihar Kosi Basin Development Project, for which the global funding agency extended $250 million credit on December 8, 2015. Its deadline is March 31, 2023.
 
 Addressing a public meeting at   on Thursday, chief minister   had said the state government was committed to completing restoration works in the Kosi region. “Kosi region witnessed massive devastation due to disastrous floods in 2008. Accordingly, we made a commitment for better Kosi and even though we did not get the required financial support from the then Central government, we took loan from World Bank for fulfilling our commitment,” Nitish had said.
 
 The Bihar Kosi Flood Recovery Project envisages support of flood recovery as well as future-oriented risk reduction efforts in the Kosi region through reconstruction of damaged houses and road infrastructure, strengthening the flood management capacity in Kosi basin, enhancing livelihood opportunities of the affected people and improving the emergency response capacity for future disasters.
 
 The World Bank, which released its annual status report in March last year, rated the overall implementation of the project as “satisfactory”.
 
 The report stated that 55,914 of 62,644 new houses were constructed in the flood- affected areas by February 3 last year. Similarly, 259.30km of 2390km roads were constructed in the affected areas by February last year. The entire stretch of targeted 12km of the embankments damaged by the floods was also strengthened by February last year along with construction of 69 new bridges.
 
 “Various agencies of the state government are involved in execution of various components of  . For instance, Bihar Rajya Pul Nirman Nigam Limited is constructing bridges, road construction department is constructing roads and water resources department is executing various structural works, including restoration of embankment of the Kosi river,” a senior official in water resources department said.
 
 
