GURUGRAM:   and the   seem to be on different pages when it comes to demolition of all structures built illegally within 300 metres of the Indian Air Force (IAF)  , a restricted zone, in Gurugram.

 While civic body officials said all   within 300 metres of the depot would be razed, deputy commissioner   made it clear that “there will be no demolition till the MCG submits a survey report on existing encroachments in the area”.
 
 An MCG survey in December last year found 4,156 properties were illegally built in the area. 
 
 These include 854 commercial buildings, 3,016 residential buildings and 241 mixed-use buildings.
 
 Reports about the demolition surfaced after officials from MCG and Gurugram police attended a meeting, chaired by the deputy commissioner, on Friday.
 
 When contacted, MCG commissioner   told TOI though he was not present at the meeting, his team had briefed him that they had been asked to conduct a demolition drive within 300 metres of the IAF depot.
 
 “Following an agreement between the Union government and Haryana government, the Punjab and Haryana high court had observed a couple of years back that the restricted area around the IAF ammunition depots in Gurugram and Faridabad could be brought down from 900 metres to 300 metres only if 300-metre areas are cleared of all encroachments. A final order is, however, still pending,” he added.
 
 The deputy commissioner, however, said “there will be no demolitions as of now.” 
 
 He said, “I have asked MCG to submit a final report regarding the properties in the restricted zone within two weeks. Once this report is ready, it will be published in public domain with notice inviting claims and objections as per the Works of Defence Act. Accordingly, compensation will be determined.”
 
 “If any structure is razed, the compensation will come from the ministry of defence. If the demolition affects the livelihood of a person, an estimate of the compensation should also be prepared,” said Singh.
 
 In the absence of a court order reducing the restricted area to 300 metres of the depot, all the structures in the 900 metres are currently illegal and sealing would continue on new structures. “Even if the defence act does not apply, these structures have come up without the approvals from MCG and hence they are invariably illegal,” said Mohan Singh, district town planner, MCG.
 
 Meanwhile, the deputy commissioner has also asked the enforcement department of the MCG to ensure that no new constructions take place in the 900 metres of the ammunition depot.
 
 However, the situation is different on the ground.
 
 When TOI visited the area, multiple new constructions were going on and there hasn’t been any action by the corporation even though most officials are aware of these developments. 
 
 Just to give an idea of the illegal construction activity going on in the restricted zone, it must be pointed out that MCG has submitted 191 complaints to the police for FIRs against the property owners responsible for construction in the area. 
 
 However, when asked whether these FIRs had been actually registered, MCG officials didn’t have an affirmative response.
 
 
