ZIRAKPUR: The Punjab government has approved two new power grids for resolving the   in this town during summer. 

 Complaints had increased along with the consumption of electricity and the number of new construction projects. Built for smaller load, the old grid trips regularly, resulting in long power cuts every summer. Of the 66-kilovolt-capacity grids that are planned, one will be at Singhpura, while the other at Baltana.
 
 P K Sharma, chairman of the confederation of resident welfare associations of north Zirakpur, said that the long unscheduled power cuts of every summer had become a nuisance. "Many times, we have raised the issue with the civic authorities but all in vain. Except empty assurances, we get nothing," he said.
 
 Zirakpur resident   complained of hanging naked live wires all over the town. "Accidental contact with these wires can maim or kill a passerby," the resident said. "It has become useless to buy an air-conditioner since there is not enough regular power in the summer to operate it."
 
 Local   leader   said work on the two power grids that the Punjab government had approved "will start soon". He said: "The central government has also released Rs 5.5 crore under the integrated power development (IPD) scheme for Zirakpur to get pending power works finished."
 
 He said the land for the Singhpura grid station was allocated, while land allocation for the Baltana grid was mired in some legal dispute, due to which the authorities concerned had shifted the project to a place where hassle-free land was available.
 
 He said that he hoped for the installation of these grids before peak summer. He hoped there will be improvement in the town's power situation.
 
 Electricity department officials referred to the IPD scheme to claim that they had started assessing the kind of transformers required and the volume of cables and poles required to be repaired. The department will also cover all loose wires and install poles to support the low-hanging wires.
 
 Dhakoli's Dashmesh Enclave resident Rajesh Pathania said that for the past more than a year, the people of his neighbourhood were pleading with the electricity authorities to remove the high-tension transmission wires passing over their houses. The cables were at an approachable height. He, however, saw a hope in the IPD scheme and the assurance of the power department.
 
 Dhakoli resident   said he was tired making written complaints to the executive engineer concerned of the electricity department over 18 months but no one had been sent over to remove a bunch of 15-to-20 transmission cables hanging just 7.5 feet above the gate of his house. 
 
 He said: "During a breezy day or a storm, the danger of an accident because of those wires multiplies.
 
 
