CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu government is hopeful of speedy constitution of the Cauvery Management Board ( ), given the apex court directions to the Centre to formulate and file the draft Cauvery management scheme before it by May 3. The court, in a way, has also clarified that the scheme should be in sync with the   award that has been notified in the Central gazette in 2013.

 The EPS government is elated as the court told the Centre in no uncertain terms that the draft should be in place, without holding any consultation with the riparian states. “The long legal battle over water dispute has reached a finality today. The Centre understood the meaning of scheme in today’s hearing. Hope they don’t delay any further,” jibed law minister C Ve Shanmugam, emerging from the Supreme Court after attending the much-awaited hearing on Monday noon. The Centre will have to formulate the scheme under the Inter-Water Disputes Act, 1956. The clarification that the tribunal order merged with the court order has brought cheers to the TN camp, since the tribunal mandated formation of the CMB by the government and the Cauvery water regulation committee by the CMB.
 
 The CJI headed bench rebuked Attorney General   for filing late the Centre’s clarification petition after its six-week deadline ended. Tamil Nadu sought to initiate contempt proceedings for the delay. When the country’s top law officer sought to know if the CMB could consist of technical and administrative members and not purely technical people, the court told the Centre to first file the draft scheme. “By saying so, the court made it clear that forming the scheme is an administrative function and not a legislative one. It means the Centre does not have to place it before the Parliament. Now a draft scheme on how to implement the mechanism has to be filed and the court will pass orders on constituting it. The Centre will have no more consultation with the states,” a senior official said. In 2016, the then AG Mukul Rohatgi made a flip-flop. Three days after the court directed the Centre to set up the board, he informed the court that it should be a legislative exercise.
 
 Opposition leaders, however, fumed over the delay in setting up the mechanism. DMK working president M K   said people were disappointed over the extended deadline given to the Centre. Both state and Central governments were betraying the interests of Tamil Nadu, he said. “After losing faith in the Centre, Tamils are hopeful of getting justice from the apex court. Wish the Centre withdraws its clarification petition and sets up the CMB,” Stalin said.
 
 PMK leader Anbumani Ramadoss alleged that justice was delayed and the Centre would delay further in acting on court orders, citing   polls slated for May 12. “Putting off the decision by every single day will affect the state badly. Mettur reservoir will not be opened on June 12 (the customary opening day) for this year’s kuruvai season,” he said. CPM state secretary K Balakrishnan said the order was disappointing as it would only result in the Centre setting up an authority for name sake.
 
 
