 poses some challenges not seen in the case of other organs. The heart needs to be harvested from a brain-dead person, unlike kidney or liver transplantation. The size of the donor organ is important as you cannot fit an adult heart easily into a small child, unlike a liver where you can use a small lobe.

 While dialysis keeps patients awaiting a kidney transplant stable, its equivalent in case of heart is an artificial heart pump, which is more complex and enormously expensive. Even if the transplant were to fail, patients with kidney disease can go back to dialysis — a luxury not available after a heart transplant. The patient is dead unless you can find another heart very quickly.
 
 The time for a heart to be removed from a brain-dead person and start pumping in the recipient is just four hours. This includes the travel time — driving through traffic, waiting at the airport, and stitching the new heart in. In between, the surgeon is sometimes asked to open the 20kg box by airport security to ensure the box doesn’t contain anything more than the 250g heart, preservatives and ice.
 
 This is why transplant authorities in the state and Centre should take logistical hurdles into consideration when they allot organs. At 2am, when hospitals receive a call about a heart in Aurangabad or Madurai, options are limited in terms of who can receive the organ. Although rules make it mandatory for the authorities to check for recipients across the country, poor infrastructure of roads and airports in smaller towns should be taken into consideration. Driving time to neighbouring towns such as Nellore, Erode or Tirupati is often beyond our deadlines and there are no usable airports at night. If there is an airport, there is no flight. We have not been able to utilise 40 hearts in the past 18 months only due to logistical reasons.
 
 The first heart transplant in India was in 1995. Till 2012, not more than 30 were done in the state. But, the cost of the procedure is not a reason for the low numbers. The TN government has a generous reimbursement policy for heart transplants for poor patients – up to `25 lakhs — and yet many waitlisted patients back out.
 
 Waitlisted patients or their relatives are not always ready when they receive a call about the availability of a heart. Many patients accept heart pumps more easily.
 
 Cardiologists to some extent are also responsible for the situation . Unfortunately, barring a few exceptions, cardiologists in India have shown little interest in heart transplants. Most of the famous centres of medical education too do not have heart transplant programmes. There are more donors than recipients and the percentage of hearts not utilised is 80 % in some states.
 
 The median waiting time for an Indian patient to receive a heart in TN is 30 days compared to two years in the US. Hence the perception that thousands of Indian patients are currently awaiting a heart transplant in hospitals at the expense of foreigners is not true. The programme is essentially driven by a few passionately interested surgeons and we look after these patients for the rest of their lives, managing their immunosuppressive medicines, looking at laboratory results, and complications, if any.
 
 Since 2008, the   by the   government has witnessed outstanding success. While it is important that we remain transparent and judicious, we should also understand the spirit behind the rules. In their hour of intense grief, a family agrees to donate the organs of a loved one. If an organ, especially a healthy heart, is wasted due to avoidable reasons, it is against the spirit of this altruistic gesture.
 
 I hope, in my lifetime, I see a situation when heart transplant procedures become commonplace because we have shown that excellent long-term results are possible in India. In 1984, the year I came to Chennai after finishing my cardiac surgery training, there were just two centres in the country doing coronary bypass surgery, both in the city. Now it is done in taluk hospitals. I hope to see this for heart transplants too.
 
 (The writer is a senior heart transplant surgeon at Fortis Malar Hospital, Chennai)
 
 
