C   does not look like a typical poultry farmer, nor for that matter does he sound like one. He works as a farmer, and even attempts to behave like a   - but then his appearance doesn’t quite back up that impression. "I used to be an artist earning good money, making cut-outs of movie stars and political leaders until a decade ago," he says.

 Under the LED lighting in the poultry farm, Subramanian tells his story while keenly feeding his quails. "Yes I had a decent life as an artist, but with the advancement of technology and the introduction of digital billboards, I went jobless, thus losing my sole source of income." But Subramanian was not one to give up. He kept searching for other options.
 
 "I decided to try my luck in quail farming, learning that it had great potential to become successful business. I saw a rising demand for the birds and their eggs. However, I had no knowledge of quail farming until then," he says.
 
 Subramanian’s change of role as farmer was not as smooth as it seems. He had lost almost all his invested money in his fledgling business he started with just 50 quails in 2007. He had suffered similar losses for the next three years. But then he decided to seek experts’ opinion and that charted his path to success.
 
 "Now I am ok with the farming and earnings. At present, I have over 1,000 birds. I am confident that I can multiply them and make thousands in a few years," says the 53-year-old farmer who lives in   of Lalgudi Taluk,  .
 
 Subramanian says that quail farming could bring one a profitable business ,and all it requires a dedicated mind and determination to succeed. One should regularly check the wellbeing of the birds and treat them as their children. "It is better to make a farm nearby your house so you can take care of the easily, day and night. Then only one can make a profit out of it."
 
 "Quails start laying eggs after about six weeks and they will produce fertile eggs for eight weeks once the mating begins. When the bird starts laying eggs, it is good to leave the male and female together for a week before you take the eggs for incubation."
 
 Subramanian sells quails in and around Trichy and earns Rs 30 a bird. The eggs are sold for Rs 3.50 each. Quails and their eggs are high in demand because of its nutritional values. It has 14 percent protein level as against the 11 per cent in chicken eggs.
 
 
