CHENNAI: An artist who was never in the spotlight but was one of the finest voices of her time — in Radha  , MS Subbulakshmi found a matchless accompanist, student and support system for more than 60 years. With Radha’s death, ends an era which associated music with complete devotion and spirituality.

 The 83-year-old Carnatic vocalist died of pneumonia in Bengaluru late on Tuesday. The end came while her granddaughter S Aishwarya was singing to her an MS favourite ‘Sriman Narayana’. “She was a fighter till the end. From the time she fell ill with tuberculosis after the Festival of India programme in London in April 1982 till her last breath, for 36 years, she fought against physical adversities but never complained about the pain she suffered. She bore her sufferings with a smile. We have lots to learn from her,” said her son V Shrinivasan, who has an elder brother V Chandrasekar and sister Subulakshmi.
 
 Born to T Sadasivam and Apithakuchambal (alias Parvathi) at Gobichettypalayam, Erode, in 1934, Radha grew up with music around her. After her mother died early, her father married MS, who raised and tutored her. Though she was later known as a vocalist, she first stepped onto stage as a dancer. A student of  , she started giving   performances as a child. “She along with Anandhi made a name for themselves. MS Amma too has sung for them in several of their dance performances. I had once seen a Radha-Anandhi performance at Vani Mahal,” said musicologist B M Sundaram.
 
 At the same time, she began accompanying MS on stage and they became inseparable, so much so that some would call her the shruti to MS. Their journey together took them from kutcheris in Madras to the UN General Assembly Hall in 1966. Though Radha was afflicted with TB, that did not stop her from accompanying MS to concerts. Their separation came briefly when Radha married Viswanathan and moved to Ahmedabad. But her love for music and the need to be with MS Amma as a vocal support brought her back to Chennai. “As ‘Venkatesa Suprabatham’, ‘Vishnu Sahasranama’ and ‘Bhaja Govindam’ play out in millions of temples and homes across the world, the voice of Radha is heard, inseparable from the voice of her legendary Amma,” said Shrinivasan, adding that though she devoted her life to music, she also made sure her children were well looked after.
 
 While MS was too busy with her concerts and practice, it was Radha who taught Carnatic music to several students and in a way helped preserve the legacy of Subbulakshmi. She had moved to Bengaluru a few years ago to be with her son . “In the annals of Carnatic music, the name of Radha Viswanathan will be engraved in letters of  . Truly the end of an era,” said Shrinivasan. 
 
 
