BENGALURU: Over 5,000 residents of Brigade Meadows and nearby apartments and inmates of the Art of Living off Kanakapura Road will hit the street this Saturday for a silent protest against rising levels of toxic fumes that surround them. 

 The cause, which residents allege is affecting the health of their kids and senior citizens, is the burning of garbage by the Kaggalipura gram panchayat.
 
  of Brigade Meadows said that 20-30 truckloads of unsegregated waste of various kind, including household, plastic, medical, etc., is being dumped daily in the space between Art of Living and Brigade Meadows, mostly along Pipeline Road. “It’s burnt to reduce the size of the pile and then buried. What’s worse, unclaimed bodies are buried there as well,” she added.
 
 Residents of Brigade Meadows have given written petitions to the chief minister’s office, home minister’s office, Karnataka State Pollution Control Board and the Kaggalipura gram panchayat, among others, but with little impact. “Now, the method has changed. They burn larger piles of plastic on a fortnightly basis and smaller ones daily,” she added.
 
 On Saturday, residents plan to wear surgical face masks and and form a human chain around the garbage pile. “We’ll march to the panchayat office and individually hand over petition to the panchayat development officer,” said a resident.
 
 Children at risk
 
 Amit Vutha, a resident of the area and associated with the National Centre for Biological Sciences, said burning of garbage releases carcinogenic chemicals into the air, putting residents, especially young children, at risk. “Smoke plastic causes a variety of ailments, including cancer of the lungs, squamous tissue and the nervous system. The residue of garbage is harmful to ground water, flora and fauna,” he added. Another resident said a   water pipeline that brings water to Bengaluru runs next to the garbage dump. 
 
 
 
 
 Asked about the problem, P Rangaswamy, PDO, Kaggalipura, said they have stopped dumping garbage in this area for the past two months. “Earlier, we used to dump garbage there as there was no other place. Later, many apartments came up there and residents started complaining. However, we haven’t directed employees to burn garbage. It could be an act of miscreants. What remains is old garbage and occasionally there’s smoke from it. We’ll take measures to clear it,” he added.
 
 
