GURUGRAM: Nearly 28% of the catchment areas of 150-year-old Jharsa Bandh, one of the four existing check dams in the city, have been encroached upon by individuals, private as well as government organisations, revealed a recent   conducted by  .

 During the survey, which was launched around one and a half years ago and concluded last week, it was found as many as 11 individuals, a private hospital and   had ‘usurped’ land in the bandh’s catchment areas that belonged to the  . A senior MCG official, who is in the know of the survey report that will be eventually submitted to different departments for further action, said encroachments had been detected in sectors 15, 38 and areas around NH-8, among others, along the dam. “Around 28% areas have found to be encroached upon over the past one decade or so,” he added.
 
 Built in the 19th century,  , which was once 10-km long, has now been reduced to about four kilometre, due to rampant encroachments and lack of maintenance. Currently, the dam’s catchment areas stretch from Rajiv Chowk to Civil Lines and sectors 38, 46 and 47, acting as a buffer for areas in Old Gurugram and along   during monsoons. 
 
 When contacted, forest department officials claimed they were planning to carry out an anti-encroachment drive to flush out squatters from the areas. “There are a few individuals and a private hospital in Sector 38 that have encroached upon the areas falling under the jurisdiction of the forest department. We are, therefore, planning to launch an anti-encroachment drive to preserve the bandh,” said Deepak Nanda, district forest officer, Gurugram.
 
 Records (of before 1958) available with the forest department suggest there were 118 bunds in Gurugram, Faridabad, Mewat and surrounding areas. After a survey carried out a couple of years ago, Huda had released a list of 63 check dams made during the British era in Gurugram. But today there are only four dams, Jharsa being one of them, are left in the city.
 
 Residents living near the Jharsa dam have for long been demanding action against encroachers to facilitate smooth flow of storm water, especially during monsoons to avoid floods.   (71), whose family had moved to Sector 15 (a sector situated adjacent to the dam) in 1928, said, “The dam used to protect villagers from floods and nourish agriculture land around it. Over the past few decades, rapid urbanisation has destroyed the dam and reduced its catchment areas.
 
 
