CHENNAI/PUDUCHERRY: Opposition leaders in   hailed the “victory of democracy” after B S   resigned as Karnataka chief minister just before he was to face a vote of confidence.

 
 “Democracy has been saved by the action of the  . Yeddyurappa has tendered resignation as he is not in a position to prove his majority. We welcome the secular forces –   and JD (S) – on joining hands. It is our wish and will (that the secular forces form the government). It has come true in Karnataka today,” said Stalin, who was in Puducherry on Saturday.
 
 The DMK leader later tweeted congratulating the Congress and the JD (S). He said, “May this herald the coming together of secular parties for the upcoming elections”.
 
 Stalin wanted the BJP to learn lessons from the Karnataka fiasco. “The systematic abuse of the governor’s office and wanton misuse of the speaker’s powers by the BJP in other states, including Tamil Nadu, stand exposed from the recent events in Karnataka. Hope this setback helps BJP realise its mistake of propping up an illegitimate government in Tamil Nadu,” tweeted Stalin.
 
 Later, Stalin spoke to JD (S) chief minister-designate H D Kumaraswamy over phone and wished him good luck.
 
 Former Union minister P Chidambaram hailed it as victory of democracy. “The doll in Karnataka fell and broke, and those who made the doll dance have gone into hiding. Finally, democracy survived and we must be happy about it,” tweeted Chidambaram in Tamil.
 
 TNCC chief S Thirunavukkarasar said democracy had been protected due to the initiatives taken by the Supreme Court and Congress president Rahul Gandhi. He termed the resignation of Yeddyurappa as a victory for justice and democracy.
 
 VCK leader Thol Thirumavalavan said, “BJP leader Yeddyurappa was sworn in with the support of the governor even though the party did not have enough numbers. Yeddyurappa’s resignation is a welcome development,” said Thirumavalavan in a statement. He blamed Prime Minister   and BJP president Amit Shah for creating confusion in Karnataka.
 
