Panaji: High court of judicature at Bombay has directed the Goa government to file a detailed affidavit specifying the progress on the construction of the new district and subordinate court complex at   and the deadline for its completion.

 The matter has been filed by North Goa District Advocates Association & others against High Court of Bombay and Goa & others. The division bench, comprising Justice A S Oka and Justice S C Gupte, has directed that the affidavit be filed on or before March 14 and a copy be furnished by the same date to the counsel for the high court administration.
 
 Taking note of earlier orders passed by this court, the judges observed that the project has been “considerably delayed”. The counsel for the high court administration submitted before the court on February 9 that requisite funds for the project had not been released by the Goa government.
 
 However, the judges accepted the state’s government’s counsel’s assurance that availability of funds would not be a hurdle to cause delay of the project.
 
 But, the judges noting that the work progress has not been in tune with undertakings by the government and Goa state infrastructure development corporation (GSIDC), directed it to secure environmental clearance (EC) for it at the next meeting of the state environment impact assessment authority (SEIAA).
 
 The counsel for the government and GSIDC had submitted that the grant of enviornmental clearance was pending before the authority which had conducted a site inspection on December 28, 2017, and raised queries on landscape plan, impact of road widening activity, waterlogging during excavation, soil management plan and other issues.
 
 While the judges accepted the counsel’s contentions, the counsel submitted that the advocate general of Goa was unable to appear as he is required to appear before a tribunal at Delhi.
 
 The counsel for the high court administration pointed out several breaches in this court direction regarding construction of the Merces complex, but the judges said they would consider the issue later.
 
 
