JAIPUR: Muslim groups have opposed the offensive statements made against them by  ,  . The MLA had said that Muslims are criminals and asked Hindus not to let them in their homes. A group of Muslim   leaders met state president Ashok Parnami at his residence on Tuesday morning. TOI learnt that Parnami has assured them of taking up the matter with chief minister Vasundhara Raje. 

 Hamid Khan Mewati, general secretary, BJP minority morcha raised his objection on the remarks made by Singhal. He expressed the problems Muslim leaders face in the community after such statements. "Such statements washed away all our efforts reaching out to the community. We have been working hard to connect community with BJP but such loose statements bring us on the ground zero," said Mewati.
 
 Syed Afshan Chishti, a khadim at Dargah Ajmer and BJP leader has called the statement opposed to the core values of BJP, Sabka Sath and Sabka Vikas. "I am sure that party high command will act against the motor mouth leader," said Chishti.
 
 Muslim leaders say such acts motivated to influence the local voters end up widening the distance between the party and the Muslims. "Singhal may not need Muslim votes but at least 40 seats in Rajasthan need support from Muslims to counter the tide of the ant-incumbency," said a BJP leader pleading anonymity. 
 
 Singhal had urged Hindu families to not allow the entry of Muslims at their homes. His termed Meo Muslims as criminals who are traditional involved in love jihad. This is not the first time the MLA has made offensive remarks. Earlier in January 2018, he slammed Muslims for producing 8-10 babies and even hiring women to produce children aiming to make Hindus minority in the country.
 
 Yasmeen Farooqui, member of All India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB) has questioned the silence of chief minister Vasundhara Raje. "The silence of Raje or any other BJP leader clears that they believe in what the MLA said. This episode has exposed the communal face of Raje who by her silence is encouraging these elements to divide society," said Farooqui. TOI repeatedly called Parnami for his comment but was not available.
 
 
