NEW DELHI: If it weren’t for  , the man who went amuck and killed six people on Tuesday would probably have taken a higher toll of lives. Vikal not only resisted   attack, but he also got the frenzied man to chase him for at least 10 minutes before leading him into a police trap despite suffering a few injuries in the process.

 Vikal, 30, who owns a small business, will record his statement before a magistrate. He will recall that the drama unfolded before dawn on Tuesday when Dhankar began assailing the gate at Vikal’s   with an iron rod. The businessman said on Wednesday that he realised it was Dhankar and told him to take his problems to his wife’s house instead of creating a ruckus in the colony. “He told me he had not eaten for days and asked me for tea, but as soon as I opened the gate, he took a swing at me and hit my arm,” said Vikal.
 
 Vikal slammed shut the gates, but Dhankar stood his ground and kept heaping abuses on the house owner. When he pulled a rod out of the gate and threw it at Vikal, the latter could brook it no longer. “I contacted the police control room, but got no response to my several calls. So, I decided to chase him, but   again attacked me with the iron rod,” Vikal said.
 
 Vikal retreated into his house and asked a friend to contact the cops. “Sometime later, I got a call from the station house officer. He requested me to keep Dhankar in sight and to keep him occupied in Adarsh Nagar,” said the businessman. He decided the best way to keep the murderous man from fleeing the area was to make him chase him, despite the obvious risks involved.
 
 He stepped out and, as expected, Dhankar ran after him, shouting that he would kill him. They raced around the colony a few times. “He tried to hit me a few times, but missed each time and became infuriated,” said Vikal. “Then to my relief, I saw a group of policemen taking up positions.” 
 
 Witnesses recalled Dhankar seeing the cops and charging at them. One of the policemen pulled out a pistol, but Dhankar hit his hand and disarmed him. The driver of a PCR van was also injured when he tried to stop the rampaging man. But when the man fell into a drain, the cops overpowered him. “If it was not for Kapil Vikal, the mad man would have killed us too,” said shopkeeper Ashok with a shudder.
 
 
