AMBALA: The   (APCA) on Monday staged protest for the 5th day in front of sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) office,  . 

 The APCA has submitted a letter of demands to the governor of   via SDM, demanding compensation for the families of those property dealers who have committed suicide in the past. The demands are that the family members of each dealer who have committed suicide should be given Rs 20 lakh as an ex gratia amount and one of the family members should be given a government job to support the family in future.
 
 On May 24, an association member Sanjay Mittal committed suicide after facing losses in his business. He left a 14-page suicide note in which he held the authorities and business partners responsible for his extreme step.
 
 Since then, the APCA is staging a protest at the Ambala cantonment SDM office demanding registration of properties under the jurisdiction of municipal corporation (MC). According to the present policy, the   is not registering the properties in unapproved areas, whereas it is collecting property tax and facilitating the residents with water and electricity connections in the same unapproved areas. The APCA alleges that due to the present policies of the authorities, the property dealers are committing suicides. Seven members of APCA have alreasy committed suicide since 2014.
 
 Today, the APCA has also submitted another memorandum to the SDM, which states different demands from the association in 13 points. One of the important demands is to open the registration of properties in the areas from where the MC is collecting taxes.
 
 Ashok Goyal, president of APCA, said, "We have handed over two different documents of demands to the SDM, one for the governor of Haryana and one for the SDM. Ashok added while receiving the documents, SDM Subhash Sihag has assured them to discuss the matter with the concerned officials on top priority and to conduct a meeting with district town planning and MC officials as soon as possible.
 
 SDM Subhash Sihag said, "We have received the representation of demands from the APCA and we will conduct a meeting with the concerned officials as soon as possible to resolve the problems faced by the property dealers. The representation of the demands for governor will be sent to his office by tomorrow."
 
 
