CHENNAI: After a lull, the fissures in the ruling   are back. With chief minister and AIADMK joint coordinator   going about consolidating his hold over the ruling party, the deputy chief minister and chief coordinator   is under pressure from supporters to revolt, yet again.

 On Sunday morning,   was seen receiving and greeting EPS on the Ghat Road near the Theni district border, when the chief minister was returning from Kodaikanal, where he stayed overnight after inaugurating a flower show in the hill station on Saturday. Despite   being close to the Theni–Periyakulam region, the ‘son of the soil’ OPS was not invited for the function, organised by the state government, and this has only deepened the growing divide between the two leaders and their supporters, say sources.
 
 In fact, OPS was not invited for the inauguration of flower shows in two other hill stations – Yercaud & Ooty – as well this summer. Both were inaugurated by EPS who also did the honours for a drinking water scheme for Kovilpatti a few days ago. OPS was not invited there too. “Brushing aside all this, OPS had asked his followers to receive and see off EPS, while he passed through the Theni district on Sunday. When they refused to do so, OPS himself went there,” said an AIADMK source.
 
 “Such personal insults are on the increase. With no sign of the co-ordination committee to manage the affairs of the party and with very little to offer to his loyalists, OPS finds himself pushed into a corner. Over the past week, senior leaders of his erstwhile faction have been pressuring him to revolt,” the AIADMK source told TOI.
 
 The fissures have been there, ever since the EPS and OPS factions merged last August. The appointment of 19 organisation secretaries to the party, most of them representing the disgruntled OPS faction, on March 17 this year helped to buy time.
 
 “The recent co-operative polls opened up the wounds once again, with OPS faction having had very little to gain. While the recent membership drive has come a cropper, thereby indicating diminishing electoral interests for the party, it also failed to conduct the ‘Budget Vilakka Koottam’ (public meetings to explain the budget) in a big way, which it normally does. There is near total inaction, except for organising government functions,” another source said.
 
 The disquiet has been witnessed at other levels too. While the party’s IT wing secretary is Singai G Ramachandran, from the OPS faction, a recent advertisement in the party mouthpiece mentioned V V R Raj Sathyan, son of MLA Rajan Chellappa, as heading the wing. The party’s social media groups are abuzz with such internal grievances.
 
 
