BENGALURU: Within a matter of hours, JC Nagar police arrested all four suspects believed to be involved in the murder of K Santosh, 28, a resident of 2nd Cross, Chinnappa Garden, on Wednesday night. While  , the prime suspect, was arrested from Cantonment Railway Station, Phillip was picked up from Shivajinagar. The other two, Umar and Irfan, were arrested near JC Nagar.

 Police said the suspects and the victim were acquainted with each other and had lived in the same area — JC Nagar — for years. A fresh row on Monday triggered incidents which led to the murder. Santosh’s mother also indicated as much, but that did not stop the BJP, who claimed Santosh was a party worker, from calling it a political murder.
 
 
 Police, however, refused to confirm or deny   — his mother said he was into   — was associated with the BJP. They said his younger brother is an active BJP worker. Wasim runs a bakery set up by his father Khader, a local Congress leader. Philip is a gym instructor, while Umar works as a dailywage worker. Irfan is a tailor. All the accused are in their 20s.
 
 Chetan Singh Rathor, deputy commissioner of police (north), told reporters that Santosh and Wasim rowed after Santosh had objected to Wasim smoking ganja near his house on Monday. “It is too early to comment on the motive,” Rathor said.
 
 Police say on the evening of January 29, Santosh saw Wasim and his friends smoking near his house. “Thinking they were smoking ganja, Santosh shouted at Wasim and the others, and warned them not to smoke there again,” police said. “That same night, Santosh met Wasim at his bakery and asked him to procure a bottle of alcohol.” Police say Santosh often asked Wasim to buy cigarettes and liquor for him.
 
 Wasim though was still peeved with the scolding he had received. Police say he and his friends went to Santosh’s house past midnight and had a verbal altercation with K Kala. “Santosh’s mother apologized for her son’s behavior,” police said, adding: “When Santosh learnt about it, he was furious.”
 
 Around 7pm on Wednesday, Santosh confronted Wasim and his friends — Irfan, Umar and Philip — over the incident, and in a fit of rage, slapped Wasim.
 
 By then, three friends of Santosh — Rajesh, Ashok and Ravi —joined them. “Ïn the melee, Wasim pulled out a screwdriver and stabbed Santosh in his left thigh,” police said.
 
 Santosh was rushed to a hospital and later to another private hospital where he died of excessive bleeding, police said. Ashok filed the complaint.
 
 
