CHENNAI:A 65-year-old devotee died of cardiac arrest at the  , in a second fatal attack in 15 hours by aggressive monkeys at the hill shrine, 90km west of Chennai, on Friday morning.

 Kadhirvelan of Arakkonam sustained head injuries when he fell while resisting a monkey’s attack. The attacker — part of a troop of monkeys — who had been stalking him through the corridors of the temple, pounced on him around 7.30am and attempted to grab a bag in which he was carrying bananas and coconuts, the   police said.
 
 “Doctors said he appeared to have died of sudden cardiac arrest,” a police officer said. “We are waiting for an autopsy report,” he added.
 
 A 45-year-old woman died at the shrine at 4.30pm on Thursday after a monkey chased her and tried to snatch her bag. G Nalini, a resident of Srinivasapuram in Bengaluru, panicked and fell while trying to flee the animal on North Car Street, on the hilltop near the Murugan Temple.
 
 
 
 
 Like Kadhirvelan, she was carrying bananas and coconuts that the priests had blessed at thefeetof thedeity.
 
 Nalini, hurt her head in thefall and was unconscious when her sister and other pilgrims took her to Tiruttani Government Hospital. Doctors there pronouncedher dead on arrival.
 
 The Tiruttani police registered a case and tookthebody for an autopsy.
 
 “Nalini and her sister were part of a group
 
 of 50 pilgrims who left Bengaluru on January 23 and visited the Melmaruvathur Adhiparasakthi Siddhar Peetam before arriving in Tiruttani,” theofficer said.
 
 On Friday, witnesses at Arulmigu Subramanya Swamy Koil in Tiruttani told police that temple workers rescued Kadhirvelan after he collapsed while trying to fight off the marauding monkey. “They took Kadhirvelan totheouter mantapam and calledthe108 emergency service,” the officer said. “Paramedics arrived in an ambulance within 10 minutes and examined Kadhirvelan. They could not find a pulse and declaredhim dead.”
 
 Police sent his body too for autopsy. “Kadhirvelan came tothetemple alone on Fridayto worship after Thai Krithigai,” theofficer said.
 
