PATNA: Though Union finance minister   announcing a capital expenditure of Rs 1.48 lakh crore for the Indian Railways in the general   presented on Thursday, it is still not clear what the East Central Railway (ECR) will get in actual sense from Budget allocations for the railways.  , which used to be a major beneficiary in past railway budgets, almost drew a blank ever since the railway budget was merged with the general Budget last year.

 Needless to say, Bihar has given maximum number of railway ministers in the past, such as Jagjiwan Ram, L N Mishra, Ram Subhag Singh, Kedar Pandey, Ram Vilas Paswan,  , Lalu Prasad and Digvijay Singh (minister of state), who contributed a lot in the development of railways in Bihar and the adjoining states. 
 
 According to ECR sources, the exact allocation of funds and sanction of rail projects in the current Budget for the ECR could be known only after it gets the ‘pink book’ from railway ministry in a few days. A cursory glance on the Budget, however, revealed that the Centre has approved laying of just two new lines on Biharsharif-Barbhigha (25.8km) and Koderma-Jharahi (15.4km) routes.
 
 The Budget also sanctioned track doubling work on Warsaliganj-Tilaiya (35km), Muzaffarpur-Pipra-Chanpatia (144 km), Biharsharif-Daniawan (38km), Fatuha-Islampur (43km), Ara-Bikramganj (57km), Samastipur-Naya Nagar (40km), Giridih-Duraitanr (52km), Raxaul-Bairgania (53km), Mansi-Saharsa-Daura-Madhepura (63km), Kiul-Patam-Pipanti (152km) and Chunar-Chopan (100km) routes.
 
 Meanwhile, the Budget also allocated funds for gauge conversion work on Jaynagar-Janakpur-Kurtha (34km) and Jhanjharpur-Ghoghardiha (20km) routes.
 
 “The railway budget has lost its sheen. The autonomy of railway ministry has been curbed to pave way to bureaucrats to rule the roost. The glorious history of railway ministry has also lost its charms due to emergence of rail budget with the general budget,” said a former GM rank railway official.
 
 A former member of the Board said the functioning of the railways was a legacy from the Britishers. “The merger of the Budget will hardly give a momentum to railways. Instead, it will adversely impact railway projects in the years to come. A separate railway budget was a medium for each zone to work out plans for the development of railways,” he added.
 
 “Sanctioning of new tracks, introduction of new trains, modernisation in railways, passenger amenities, bridge rehabilitation, track maintenance, healthcare and education sector were the parts of railway budget. Now railway ministry has no other option but to depend on the annual budgetary allocation by the finance ministry,” sources said. 
 
 
