CHANDIGARH: Sector 39   have busted a gang of auto-lifters by arresting three persons. However, three accomplices of the accused are still on the run and police are raiding their possible hideouts, said cops.

 While addressing media at Sector 39 police station,   SSP Nilambari Vijay Jagdale said the accused have been identified as  , 20,  , 23, and Bhim Sen, 35. All are residents of   district, Uttar Pardesh. SSP said nine motorcycles, six tractors, one trolley, one compressor machine, one mobile phone, one bangle and a pair of earrings were recovered from their possession.
 
 With their arrest, a total of 16 cases including six   auto-thefts, snatchings and burglaries have been solved. Acting on a tip-off, Sector 39 police laid a naka under the supervision of sub-inspector   near the Government Senior Secondary School in Sector 56 and arrested Harvir and Soraj Singh on March 22. Police produced them in local court and obtained five-day police remand. During the course of investigation, police arrested the third accused Bhim Sen on March 27.
 
 During interrogation, the accused said they had sold off a number of stolen tractors and trolleys at their native place at Rs 80,000 to 1,00,000 to the villagers. All two-wheelers and motorcycles were also sold at Sambal. Police team went to Sambal and recovered all the stolen vehicles. Real owners of tractor trolleys have also identified their tractors at the police station.
 
 Police said three accomplices of the arrested accused Munish, Pushkar and a juvenile have helped them to sell the stolen vehicles in UP and are on the run.
 
 Police said Harvir came in the city for job in 2017. He started living in a rented accommodation in Mohali. Other two accused Bhim Sen and Soraj Singh also came to city and started living with him, later. They started with stealing two-wheelers and then, stole tractors as well. Harvir was earlier arrested by Noida police with country-made pistol. Soraj was also booked by Noida police for carrying knife. However, Bhim Sen used to work as a labourer in Gaziabad before joining the duo in 2017.
 
 Police produced all the accused in the court and obtained their police custody till March 31.
 
 
