In this episode of Kasam, we see Tanu and Rishi talking about her relationship with Abhishek (AK) and she says that he doesn't know everything. AK walks in and sees her with Rishi. Abhishek says he met Nethra and bought a mangalsutra which he had earlier selected for her.

 They are in the car when Abhishek says that when he sees her with Rishi he undergoes a lot of pain. He says that she is in pain as well. He says that he wants him to be happy with whoever she is with.
 
 Meanwhile, Rishi keeps thinking about Tanu. Manpreet is also present who doesn't like the sherwani. Rishi says that the sherwani was gifted by Abhishek. He also says that he thinks Abhishek is planning something for sure to separate Tanu and him.
 
 Tanu and AK come home. Natasha is asleep but suddenly starts crying.She sees her best friend in a dream and tells them that she wants to meet Tania rightaway. When Tanu says no, Natasha asks her father to take her.
 
 Tanu and Abhishek talk alone for a few moments. She asks him why is he taking her to Rishi's home, which according to her will only increase their level of bonding. Abhishek says that they have to accept the fact that she is Rishi's blood and their bonding is different. He says that inspite of everything, Natasha will always be his favourite girl and nothing will change that and cannot see her upset at any cost.
 
 Rishi sees Tania playing. He says that if Natasha was there too, it would have been even more fun. Nethra comes and says that Natasha is here. Rishi wonders if Tanu has come too.
 
 Myra and Tanu are together. Tanu looks at Myra and wonders what is she thinking.She asks her what is wrong. Rishi asks Natasha who brought her here. She replies Papa. Rano too comes in and asks Rishi to come sit in the car rightaway.
 
 AK comes back home and sees Tanuja. He says he wants to speak with her. He gifts her some bangles. Tanuja wonders why. AK says that the bangles belonged to his mom and long back, his dad passed on these bangles to him to gift to the girl he loves. Hearing this, Tanuja gets a huge shock.
 
