PATNA: Newly appointed   vice-chancellor (VC) Gulab Chand Ram Jaiswal is likely to face an uphill task as far as getting the assets and liabilities transferred from Magadh University (MU) is concerned. The new university is to be carved out from the MU colleges located in Patna and Nalanda districts. 

 According to sources, there are 44 constituent and 250 affiliated colleges under the MU in seven districts, out of which 27 constituent and about 100 affiliated colleges are located in Patna and Nalanda districts.
 
 Senior MU administrative officials feel the greatest challenge for the new VC would be to acquire land at a suitable place to develop the required infrastructure for the university. Besides, he will have to ensure that the assets and liabilities are duly transferred from MU before the start of the new academic session in July. 
 
 “The new VC will have to chalk out a comprehensive plan and creative vision for developing the new university at a time when none of the universities from Bihar reckons with other universities of the country in terms of quality teaching and research work. To follow the academic calendar strictly and publish the results of various examinations in time will be another challenge for the new VC,” said a senior MU official.
 
 The new university, which is to have its own senate and syndicate, will have to work out and revise the old syllabus of both degree and PG level courses. “Incidentally, most colleges likely to be carved out from the MU are being headed by professors in charge. Thus, Jaiswal will have to initiate the process of appointing new principals as per the UGC norms to streamline teaching atmosphere. Many colleges are also facing acute faculty crunch for long. It will be another task for the new VC to fill the vacant posts in the colleges,” he said.
 
 One MU college principal said though biometric attendance for teachers has been made mandatory, teachers’ presence in the colleges for about five hours daily will be another issue for the new VC to deal with effectively.
 
 Former MU VC B N Pandey said the old statutes and Acts of the universities in the state should be amended to keep pace with the development in the field of higher education. “The new university must adopt advanced teaching methodology to uphold values of higher education in the field of research in the state,” he said.
 
 
