At a time when   are being targeted for  , a   by a group of scholars and wildlife experts in   suggests that by preying on  , the spotted cats can in fact reduce the number of dog bite incidents, risk of   transmission to humans and costs associated with dog sterilization and management.

 “The study is a meta-analysis of leopard research done over the past 15 years in Sanjay Gandhi National Park. It was a synthesis of previous research published recently,” says joint lead author of the study Alexander Braczkowski,   and a big cat biologist. Leopards have been targeted for killing livestock and attacking on humans, but people fail to understand the indirect impact of large carnivores on human well-being, especially in urban environments, he adds. 
 
 
  
 
 According to Wildlife Protection Society of India, the number of leopard deaths in 2018, so far, is 124, including 24 in Maharashtra. In 2017, the figure was 40 in the state.
 
 “We examined the services provided by leopards to the residents of Mumbai, the sixth-largest urban agglomeration in the world. Under one set of assumptions, the presence of leopards in this highly urbanized area could save several human lives per year,” says Braczkowski.
 
 Braczkowski and five other authors estimated the ecosystem service value of the 35 leopards that live in SGNP and the adjoining Aarey Milk Colony that feed on stray dogs. At present, around 3.5 lakh people are estimated to live within 500m of the park borders and in and around Aarey.
 
 Mumbai has one of the largest stray dog population in the world—96,000. This abundance of strays arises as a result of human tolerance and the hundreds of tonnes of uncollected refuse and carrion that accumulate within slums.
 
 The study states that dogs have been primary prey source for leopards in SGNP over the past 15 years—approximately 42% of the diet of a leopard inhabiting this area consists of dog. Assuming a leopard’s daily food intake of 5kg, and 17kg of an average dog can be consumed, the 35 leopards will kill about 1,500 dogs per year in and around the national park. “If the total number of dogs that leopards consume in this system (1,500 dogs) is multiplied by the cost (around Rs 770) of sterilizing each dog, then about Rs 11.6 lakh is saved towards the sterilization programme,” states the study.
 
 Another positive about leopards preying on dogs is curbing rabies cases. On an average 74,603 dog-bite cases have been reported per year among the 2.1 crore Mumbaikars. The study estimates people living adjacent to the park experience about 10 times fewer dog-bite incidents than in the city. “An average 3.6 bites per 1,000 citizens for the city as a whole, the 3.5 lakh population around SGNP would expect around 1,200 bite incidents per year,” the study states.
 
 With Mumbai expected to grow 26% by 2020, the study says conservation of leopards will be a challenge in future as slums will further encroach upon the forested areas. Further, SGNP and adjoining Aarey Colony are under constant threat from development, and the recent approval of Metro-III car shed project in Aarey will lead to clearing of large swaths of leopard habitat. 
 
 Vidya Athreya, an ecologist working on human-leopard conflict, says, “It is a simplistic analysis, but yet an interesting way of looking at leopard-dog interactions, which are quite significant because dogs are important prey of leopards. But I do not agree with the ecosystem services idea because it is the municipality that should be clearing garbage (leading to lower resources for dog populations) rather than leopards controlling dogs.”
 
 Wildlife Institute of India tiger scientist Dr Bilal Habib says, “Though the analysis has been done from available data, the study gives new dimension about the ecological role leopards play in urban ecosystem. When people look it as a conflict, it has opened new paradigm for large carnivore conservation in human-dominated landscape.”
 
 
