HYDERABAD:   (TJS), the new   floated by the TJAC led by M Kodandaram, will contest elections on its own with the objective of ousting the autocratic  . The party will decide whether or not   will contest in due course of time but TJS aims to contest every   and work towards growing independently.

 The party is also likely to contest the panchayat elections and a formal decision on this would be announced soon. “TJS would be different from other parties by addressing issues of the people and being available, unlike the chief minister who has become inaccessible.TJS would not only be an alternative to the TRS but would also fulfil the aspirations of people,” Kodandaram said.
 
 
 Kodandaram on Monday formally announced the name of TJS and said the party flag was being given final touches in consultation with artistes and citizens, and will be unveiled on April 4.
 
 A massive public meeting would be organised on April 29 in Hyderabad marking the launch of TJS party. Several leaders from TRS and other major parties are in touch with TJAC/TJS and would be joining the new political party in due course of time. “Rulers have changed but not the rule in the new state as a result of which the aspirations of people in Telangana have not been fulfilled. The objectives for which people participated in statehood agitation remain unfulfilled in the last four years,” he said promising that TJS was here to fulfil all these.
 
 There is no venue to hold democratic protest in Hyderabad and the KCR government is not allowing any public meeting or rallies to raise voice against. Stating that while TJAC tried to address all these issues, it realised that a political party can achieve the objectives for which statehood was demanded.
 
 Without naming opposition parties, Kodandaram said: “We realised that existing parties were not effectively articulating the concerns of people against the autocratic rule of KCR-government. We decided to be on people’s side and thus after consulting  , professors, intellectuals, farmers, unemployed youth and cross section of society, a decision was taken to launch TJS to fulfil the aspirations and dreams of the people, which TRS promised but failed to deliver,” Kodandaram said.
 
