SHIMLA: The   high court has directed the principal secretary (home) to file a personal affidavit regarding failure of the state government in construction of storage for contraband as per the   directions. Failing to do so, he will have to personally remain present in the court on the next date of hearing on June 19.

 The HC found that despite the apex court directions issued two and half years back, the state government had not been able to ensure construction of storage places of contraband under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985. The court had on Friday observed that the   had asked the government to complete the said construction in six months and delay amounted to contempt of orders. 
 
 The court was persuaded by advocate general to have the matter adjourned by two weeks to enable the state government to take necessary steps for early completion of work and make the centres functional and operational.
 
 While hearing the matter, division bench of Acting Chief Justice   and Justice   on Friday pointed out that in five districts the work was lagging behind.
 
 The court stated that on January 28, 2016, the Supreme Court had directed the states to set up such storage places within six months thereof. “It being more than two and half years and in our considered view, no effective steps have been taken till date,” it added.
 
 The division bench observed that prima facie it was of the considered view that the state was in contempt of orders passed by the Supreme Court, which stated that the Central government and its agencies along with the state government shall within six months from date of order take appropriate steps to set up storage facilities for the exclusive storage of seized narcotics and psychotropic and controlled substances and conveyances duly equipped with vaults and double locking system to prevent theft, pilferage or replacement of the  . 
 
 It added that the Centre and the state governments shall also designate an officer each for their respective storage facility and provide for other steps, measures to ensure proper security against theft, pilferage or replacement of the seized drugs.
 
 
