KOLKATA: A 32-year-old woman from Basanti in South 24 Parganas has alleged that in the early hours of Thursday she was raped by several persons after she had gone to urinate by the railway tracks close to Park Circus station. The incident woman was returning home after visiting her nephew at  . So far, three persons have been arrested by the   (GRP). Cops are investigating if a fourth person, too, was involved in the crime.

 
 
  
 
 According to GRP officials, the woman had walked down to the Park Circus station around midnight. Unable to find a women’s restroom, she began to walk down the rail tracks to find a secluded spot.
 
 “She was midway between Park Circus station and Sir Gurudas Banerjee Halt Station when she was accosted by a few men,” said an officer. He added that locals saw the incident and rescued the woman left lying barely a few metres from the tracks.
 
 “The woman lodged a written complaint to the effect that she was visiting her relative at Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital at Park Circus. She had been to the railway tracks between Park Circus and Sir Gurudas Banerjee Halt stations to urinate around 1am when three persons raped her. She could pick up the names of the accused from the conversation they were having and we have identified them as Bapi Mandal, 25, Sanjib Singh, 25, and Indrajit Ghatpatra, 25. All residents of   under   police station, they were arrested after night-long raids,” said  , GRP (Sealdah). The Sealdah GRP police station has lodged the case under IPC 376 (G) pertaining to gang rape.
 
 The cops, however, said that some witnesses claimed that the woman was first accosted by a single person and, even as he was trying to assault her, the three arrested men spotted the two while passing by the area. Instead of coming to her aid, they forced themselves on her. By the time the local slum dwellers could react, the first man managed to flee.
 
 “Some even claimed that this man was spotted with her outside the hospital and at the Park Circus station. We need to verify these claims,” claimed a source.
 
 The cops said they have contacted the forensic team to pick up evidence from the spot. The woman’s medical report will be crucial in the case, felt cops. “We will also send the clothes the accused were wearing for forensic testing. The woman still needs time to come out of shock. We are investigating the case from all angles and, therefore, will get the confidential statement of the complainant recorded before the magistrate at the earliest,” said an officer.
 
