LUDHIANA: While handing over 9,592 appointment letters, chief minister   said that nobody would be allowed to disturb peace of Punjab. He was speaking at a state-level job fair organized at   (PAU) here, where youngsters were given appointment letters.

 Incidentally, it was his first public event after the formation of government, on Sunday. Addressing the gathering, the CM said the   government had created an environment of peace in the state to facilitate development. Peace is of critical importance for the state and he will not allow anyone to disturb it, he said while addressing new police recruits.
 
 
  
 
 On the completion of one year of the government, the CM said they had been successful in giving jobs to 1.61 lakh youth and stated that it was wrong information that job fairs were facilitating only low-paying jobs. He stated that the packages offered in the second fair ranged between Rs 3 lakh and Rs 31 lakh per annum. There were as many as eight companies that had offered over Rs 12 lakh per annum packages, 12 companies with packages over Rs 10 lakh a year, 24 with Rs 7 lakh per annum packages and 66 that provided salary packages of Rs 5 lakh a year, he disclosed.
 
 However, Capt avoided comments on SAD-BJP allegations against the Congress government of not fulfilling promises but instead highlighted the achievements of the government in generating employment. Amarinder urged youngsters not to go after only government jobs under the misconception that they were better paying, as private companies were also offering lucrative packages. He shared that in the past one year 15,000 medium and small industrial units had got registered and once these units would start functioning, he was hopeful that at least 90,000 jobs would be generated in these units.
 
 Later, an official spokesperson said that besides the 16,130 recruitments made by the government, 83,385 job placements had been made by the employment generation department, technical education department and   from April 1, 2017, till date. 
 
 
