CHANDIGARH: Chandigarh bench of   (CAT) directed UT administration to submit affidavit stating findings of departmental promotion committee (DPC) in case related to promotion of Chandigarh police officers. 

 The order came after hearing of the contempt petition filed by inspectors of Chandigarh police against UT administration and police. The bench has directed the administration to file an affidavit confirming compliance to the orders of the tribunal in the next hearing on January 30. Senior standing counsel for UT told the bench that the DPC had discussed and names of some inspectors for promotion as DSP had been forwarded to the administrator.
 
 The bench also directed Union of India to explain why the DSPs from Delhi of the Delhi-Andaman and   (DANIPS) cadre, which is also inclusive of Chandigarh police, have not been sent back. The inspector rank officers from Chandigarh police who were due to be promoted to the rank of deputy superintendents of police (DSP) could not attain the higher rank because the DANIPS cadre officers from Delhi had occupied at least eight such posts. The counsel informed the bench that   has already issued their transfer orders. 
 
 However, the UT is yet to relieve them. In response, UT’s standing counsel told the tribunal that there is a shortage of police officers in day to day maintenance of law and order at present and thus they cannot be relieved. He added that as soon as the inspectors will be promoted to DSP rank, the DANIPS cadre personnel will be relieved. The bench directed UT to file a compliance affidavit by the next date of hearing. 
 
  Three inspectors of UT police Charanjit Singh, Gurmukh Singh and Dilsher Singh had filed a contempt petition as the police department and UT administration had failed to comply with CAT’s orders. The tribunal had given directions to the UT home secretary to decide representation of the police officers by passing a speaking order within two months in December, in light of the order passed by the tribunal in the case of Amrao Singh who had been promoted to DSP from the rank of an inspector after orders were passed by the tribunal on April, 2017.
 
 
 
 
 CAT also issued notice to UT after a fresh application was filed by inspector Charanjit Singh. The application says that just a day before the DPC was to hold a meeting, an enquiry against him was ordered to be rep-opened regarding an old case. He has demanded that the same be stayed till the time the petition regarding his promotion is decided by CAT. The order to reopen the enquiry against him was passed on January 22 by the police department. UT has been asked to file a reply by February 7 in this regard. 
 
 Singh in his application has mentioned that the matter pertains to 2009 when a complaint against him had led to disciplinary proceedings against him. However, on May 3, 2017, he was found to be innocent in the case. He has asked that the respondents be asked to recall the sealed cover letter and add his name via the review selection committee so that he can be considered for promotion.
 
 
