NOIDA: Days after a six-year-old girl, Mahi, was mauled by stray dogs in   in Sector 100 last week, the RWA federation and NCR RWA wrote to   CEO   on Wednesday, urging him to deploy more dog sterilisation agencies other than the one that is currently operating in the city.

 “We have written to Authority CEO Alok Tandon, apprising him of the alarming situation owing to stray dogs in Noida. Recently, stray dogs attacked a six-year-old girl, who suffered severe injuries. So we have appealed to the CEO to enforce requisite measures on an urgent basis to curb the   so that such unfortunate incidents can be averted in the future,” said A N Dhawan, secretary general,   (FONRWA).
 
 The RWA federation has suggested demarcating the city into four to six zones and hiring more than three agencies to look into dog sterilisation work as residents complained of increase in number of stray dogs in last couple of months. “We have requested the CEO to deploy at least three or more agencies, each assigned a specific zone of the city, to carry out the sterilisation work on priority,” said Dhawan.
 
 Confederation of NCR Residents Welfare Associations (CONRWA) have also reiterated a similar demand from the CEO. “The sterilisation work should be carried out on urgently to avoid further incidents as one in Sector 100. The number of stray dogs has already increased beyond control with no effective mechanism to curtail their growth across residential sectors, leaving women and children most vulnerable to attacks,” said P S Jain, president, CONRWA.
 
 The current animal shelter in Sector 94 already faces shortage of kennels, lack of power back-up facility to perform effective surgeries, shortage of water supply, unclean drainage and dirty surroundings. 
 
 “These were the findings of the sub-committee of the animal shelter in Sector 94 while reviewing the progress of dog sterilisation job of late,” said Dhawan who urged for immediate steps in curtailing stray dog growth in residential sectors. 
 
 
