SECUNDERABAD: The wait seems to get longer by the day. Annoyed by the Local Military Authority (LMA) dragging its feet on reopening all the public roads as ordered by the ministry of defence (MoD), residents of Secunderabad Cantonment are now planning to hit the street. To begin with, a protest will be held before Telangana Andhra Sub-Area (TASA) headquarters at Bolarum soon.

 
 The residents are further exasperated by a new rule of the military authorities insisting on helmets for pillion riders also. Till now, the soldiers have been insisting on ‘helmet must’ for bike riders only. Signboards making helmets mandatory for pillion riders have sprung up. “It appears as if the authorities are out to harass us with one clause or the other. They are not even sparing the morning walkers. This is not some jungle raj,” an angry resident complained.
  
  
 The resident welfare associations (RWAs) approached SCB chief executive officer SVR Chandra Sekhar and urged him to keep all the 25 civilian roads open. “But, the LMA continues to hold on to 14 roads by making them ‘no-go’ zones. The SCB authorities are helpless as they haven’t received any reply from LMA till now,” said a senior member of RWA, Yapral. “We will stage a protest at TASA headquarters to demand that the authorities keep the 14 roads also open for the convenience of lakhs of commuters,” K Subhashini, a software employee, told TOI.
 
 The 14 internal roads are: Hakimpet-Cantonment Garden Road, Cantonment Garden, Barr Road, Golf Course-Lakdawala Road, Batticaloa Circle-Ammuguda Road, TASA Circle-Aurangabad Railway Line Road, Balaklava Road-Batticalova Link Road, FEL Circle-Rajiv Rahadari Road, FEL Circle-Lal Bazar Road, RA Lines Road-Wesley Church Road, Empress Road, RA Lines Road, Service Road under RK Puram and Shivalayam Road.
 
 In the MoD’s orders issued on May 21, only four out of 62 Cantonments were exempted from opening the roads to civilians. But, no such exemption was extended to Secunderabad Cantonment. “We still do not understand as to why the LMA is dilly-dallying on opening the 14 roads despite the MoD’s clear instructions to keep all the 25 roads open,” a member of RWA, Lal Bazar, sought to know. The four Cantonments which were given the relief were Badami Bhag Cantonment in Srinagar, Jammu Cantonment, Delhi Cantonment and Cannanore (Kannur) Cantonment.
 
 On top of this, the residents are also upset by the barriers and road blocks which have not been removed by LMA. “Some of the internal roads are very narrow (30ft width). By installing the iron barricades in the middle of the road, the width shrinks further,” D Shankar, a regular commuter of Yapral, told TOI.
 
 Another order of the MoD to LMA to take assistance of the local traffic police to regulate traffic has also not been implemented. “The military authorities do not approach us. In some areas, traffic signals do not function,” a senior traffic cop said.
 
 
