GURUGRAM: The district administration is going to disburse Rs 14.29 crore as compensation to land owners for 5 kanal 11 marla (3,357 square yards) of land in Sukhrali village along the  , which has already been acquired by NHAI to improve infrastructure at  .

 The land parcel, which has a liquor shop and several eateries on it, is needed to widen the service lane of the NH-8 carriageway going towards Jaipur at Iffco Chowk. The delay in acquisition has held up the project, causing congestion at the intersection. Another obstacle, a fuel station on MG Road obstructing the underpass project at Iffco Chowk, is yet to be removed by Huda. 
 
 NHAI, which is executing the junction improvement and underpass project, acquired the land, agreed upon a compensation of Rs 14.29 crore in January 2018, and deposited the amount with the district administration for disbursement.
 
 Gurugram sub-divisional magistrate (SDM)   said the compensation will be released to land owners only after NHAI gets a no objection from Huda. “In February 2018, Huda estate office 2 had said petitioners could be allowed to accept compensation if they hand over possession of the land immediately to NHAI,” said Singhla, adding the release of compensation at the earliest is necessary for the infrastructure work to be completed in time.
 
 Elaborating on the need for the district administration to take Huda’s consent for releasing compensation, Singhla said long ago, the land in question was first acquired by Huda to develop a residential sector. This was challenged by the land owners before Punjab and Haryana high court in 1998.
 
 After years of litigation, the high court, in its November 2007 order, had asked for the land to be returned to the owners, except for portions already covered by public utilities like sewers, etc. This order was challenged by Huda in the  , which re-directed the case to the high court. In 2012, the high court restored the petition.
 
 In the meantime, NHAI started work on improving the junction, and also building underpasses at Iffco Chowk, Rajiv Chowk and Signature Chowk. As part of the project, NHAI has already constructed a flyover on the expressway service road at Iffco Chowk, to ensure smooth flow of traffic towards Rajiv Chowk. With the flyover occupying parts of the service road, the latter now needs to be widened for traffic from MG Road going towards Rajiv Chowk.
 
 Once NHAI announced the compensation amount, Sukhrali-residents Mahender Singh and Joginder Singh, brothers who jointly own the land parcel in question, submitted a representation to Huda in February, asking it to release the compensation. “We will take back the litigation and hand over the land to NHAI once we get our compensation,” the brothers told Huda.
 
 In response, a senior Huda official hinted they too have no objection in releasing compensation. “The land is urgently required for the project. Considering it’s no longer affecting any Huda plan, we request the petitioner to settle the issue amicably, instead of continuing to contest it in high court,” he said.
 
 
