NAGPUR: As   district is facing one of the worst dry spells this summer, Government   (GMCH) here has been left dehydrated. Erratic water supply has hampered the day-to-day operations at the 700-bedded medical college.

 The hospital has 5 lakh litre storage capacity, which is filled up from supply by the Maharashtra Jeevan Pradhikaran (state groundwater supply authority). Since the onset of summer, the hospital is getting water only on alternate weekly basis. The hospital is depending on water drawn from the conventional wells and a couple of bores on the campus which are barely meeting the requirement.
 
 “At present, we are able to to spare water on continuous basis only for operation theatre, sterilization section and the laundry. These are crucial units and cannot run without water, which is needed during surgeries as well as sterilization of the equipment after that,” said Dr  , dean of GMCH Yavatmal.
 
 There is no supply from Jeevan Pradhikaran for nearly a fortnight. The hospital needs 2 lakh litres a day but has to manage with 50,000 litres, arranged from the wells on the campus these days. Even these sources are fast depleting, said the dean.
 
 “Drinking water supply has been reduced to a single point in the hospital which draws water from a campus well. It is refilled only thrice in a day. The entire hospital, which includes patients and the relatives, are depending on the source,” he said.
 
 Apart from key functions like surgeries and sterilization, water is also needed in hostels. This is being arranged from a nearby pump. Help is being sought from other sources including the Indian Medical Association (IMA).
 
 Dr   of IMA’s Yavatmal unit said the GMCH had approached for help and they would be arranging for water supply as well as cash assistance to deploy tankers.
 
 A senior official in the Jeevan Pradhikaran accepted that there was a crisis. “The city is getting water in a gap of 8 to 10 days. At the GMCH, the supply is for 8 days at a stretch after which there is an equal gap. Given the water situation, it is not possible to increase the supply,” he said.
 
 The situation would improve only when water from Bembla dam is diverted to the town. The work is underway but no timeline can be given, though it is hoped that supply from Bembla may begin by mid-May, said the source.
 
 “The hospital authorities were apprised of the situation three months in advance and were advised to keep their borewells maintained to tackle the crisis,” said Jeevan Pradhikaran official. On this, the hospital authorities say that water in the wells is now fast depleting.
 
 Apart from Yavatmal, even Akola district is facing similar crisis. There is a GMCH in Akola too. However, the situation is not as worse as Yavatmal. “It is tough indeed but we are being able to manage it well as there are 4-5 borewells on the campus,” said dean Dr Rajesh Karyakarte.
 
 
