MUMBAI: Walking around the entire 200-year-old   may soon become a reality as the civic body will begin phase II of   work along the grade II heritage structure shortly. Currently, one can walk around the   station side or S V Road side of the lake.

 BMC will take up beautification work at a cost of approximately Rs 6 crore. The work will include a walking pathway along the talao, including a cantilever to connect the path. Civic officials said that while there were plans for a glass cantilever, BMC has now zeroed in on an RCC one. “The Bandra talao being connected on all four sides will be the highlight of the phase II work. This will mean that around 100 metres of an open pathway will be a walker’s paradise,” said a civic official. 
 
 A mural in memory of Swami Vivekananda is also planned at the talao. There are also plans for LED lighting, aerators and beautification of the area with by upgrading the greenery.
 
 
  
 A proposal will come up for approval before the civic standing committee this week. Congress corporator from Bandra and standing committee member   
 said, “Connecting the talao for walkers on all four sides with a walkway will mean that it is accessible to all. Having so many guards to man the talao was not feasible too. Over the years, the talao was more ornamental, and as there was no clear access on all four sides, maintaining it was a challenge. This also kept parts of it away from the public eye.”
 
 Phase I of the beautification project, completed in April 2016, saw basic upgradation around the talao, like reinstatement of the promenade, railings and granite flooring. Later, desilting of the lake was undertaken, with around 2,500 tonnes being removed.
 
 Bandra resident Shyama Kulkarni said the   needs to be citizen-friendly. “It will then encourage more people to use the walkway. Few benches around will also be helpful to senior citizens. The toilet too needs to be upgraded,” said Kulkarni, adding that BMC needs to take steps to ensure people do not throw garbage into the lake, which now has been taking place from the side where there is no walkway.
 
 
