BHOPAL: A forest chowki was allegedly torched by suspected Maoists in   village under   in Mandla district. Inspector general of Balaghat range G Janardan told TOI, “We are trying to ascertain if the post was torched by Maoists or someone else. Teams have been dispatched and investigations are on.” 

 No forest official was present on the spot at the time of incident, the IG said. Sources said members of 'Vistar Dalam' are active in the region for the last one year. The spot where post was set ablaze is 70 km from Mandla district headquarters and borders Kawardha district of Chhattisgarh. Earlier, suspected Maoists had snatched wireless from forest officials in the same region. In February, they had allegedly threatened forest department employees to stay away from the area, another senior police official said.
 
 According to Nagpur bureau, Naxalites’ new thrust area at the tri-junction of Maharashtra,   and Chhattisgarh has become a matter of concern for the state government which is fast moving its security forces along the state borders. Proposals are being processed for setting up police posts in key areas of the border.
 
 The documents seized after the recent encounters in the northern part of the Naxalite-affected Gadchiroli district and also what has come out in the interrogation report of an arrested rebel exposed the fact the Naxalites are focusing on the stretch adjoining Gondia (Maharashtra), Rajnandgaon (Chhattisgarh) and Balaghat (Madhya Pradesh).
 
 The rebels have earmarked the stretch as ‘GRB’ (Gondia, Rajnandgaon and Balaghat) or ‘Vistar’ region. They have also inducted trained guerrillas into their ‘Vistar Dalam’ from Chhattisgarh and also parts of Gondia and Gadchiroli in Maharashtra. Central committee member Milind Teltumbde, who has a vast experience of working in this region, has been made in-charge and commander-in-chief of the operations.
 
 It’s learnt that ‘Vistar Dalam’ consists of armed guerrillas from outfits in Gondia and Gadchiroli. Sources in the intelligence department claimed that Naxalites’ Gondia-based Darekasa, Salekasa, Malajkhand and such smaller dalams have been amalgamated into the Vistar Dalam. According to information available with the department, Platoon 4, led by dreaded guerrilla commander Pahad Singh, would also function in the same region along with Platoon 3 under Surendra.
 
 The latest decision of the Naxalites has been aken in order to revive the central region of their pan-India red corridor adjoining the northern part of the country with Odisha and Andhra Pradesh where the process of revamping is also underway.
 
 
