PUNE: The city airport authorities are contemplating to reserve seats for   in the two security hold areas.

 The move comes following multiple complaints from passengers about many senior citizens having to stand because of unavailability of seats during the peak hours. “We are thinking in terms of reserving some seats for the senior citizens in both the security hold areas (SHAs). We are also thinking about increasing the number of seats in different areas at the terminal building. The details will be shared in a later phase,” an airport official told TOI.
 
 Passengers, apart from complaining to the authorities on the social media (Twitter), have been posting pictures showing the rush of people in the peak hours. In one such pictures posted by one Naitik Soni on May 18, one could see many passengers, including senior citizens, sitting and even sleeping on the floor because of the delay of several flights.
 
 Passengers rued the fact that the airport gave an impression of a railway station during the late night hours. “Recently, I was travelling with my family and as I reached the airport’s SHA, I found it to be jam packed. While we had no options but to stand, my son, who is just five, could not take it and chose to sit on the floor. An airport needs to be properly organized but that is not the case here. It is chaotic. Long and unorganized queues and noise worsen the situation. I have no clue what the airport authorities and the airlines are doing about it,” a passenger, who requested to remain anonymous, said.
 
 On May 26, another passenger wrote to an airline and tweeted a picture of a long and unorganized queue as passengers waited to board an aircraft. “Most disorganized queue and staffers ever … and when you recommend solutions, it is a blame game obviously,” the woman tweeted.
 
 The airline, while pointing out that one of the boarding gates was facing technical issues, stated in its reply, “We are really sorry about this and we can understand the feeling of standing in a queue for check-in. We are facing this issue because of approximately 18 departures at night from the  .”
 
 Close to 19-20 flights depart and arrive at the airport from 9pm until midnight. The slot from midnight to 3am has arrivals of around 10 flights. The same number of flights depart as well. 
 
 
