PUNE: After connecting the 11 recently merged   to six ward offices,  's   department has allotted 130 health   who will take up measures to ward off   in these fringe areas.

 They have already initiated the identification of mosquito breeding spots, a yearly exercise that begins in December and ends in January. 
 
 Experts said the effects of these measures can fail if coordinated efforts from all the civic departments are not initiated to address issues including water scarcity, garbage disposal and illegal construction sites in these areas.
 
 
  
 
 The fringe villages include Lohegaon, Shivane-Uttamnagar, Shivane, Mundhwa, Sade Satara Nali, Ambegaon Khurd, Undri, Dhayari, Ambegaon Budruk, Uruli Devachi and Phursungi.
 
 “We put a system in place last November. There were civic and infrastructure related issues and the department had to start from scratch,”  , head of insect control department at PMC, said.
 
 After starting the vector control unit in each village, the health department allocated 130 contractual health workers for initiating mosquito control measures. These included identifying breeding spots, taking up entomological surveillance and implementing anti-larval measures to keep mosquitoes in check.
 
 The dengue virus is prevalent in the fringe areas of the city. Almost 60% of the cases reported last year were found among residents living in the jurisdiction of four ward offices of Dhankawdi-Sahakarnagar, Hadapsar-Mundhwa and Ahmednagar Road-Vadgaonsheri.
 
 Senior paediatrician Sharad Agarkhedkar said, “The fringe areas are entry points for many infectious and communicable diseases. Lack of planned development, poor hygiene and sanitation are reasons why people living here are so often in the grip of mosquito- and waterborne diseases. Besides, due to scarcity in some areas, people tend to store water. Uncovered containers act as breeding grounds for dengue mosquitoes.”
 
 Civic health officials must first identify the problems of the people living in these villages related to hygiene and sanitation, he added. “It has been more than two months now. They have started a system, but villagers should be explained the issues,” Bhagwan Bhadale, a resident of Phursungi village, said.
 
 Activists stress on inter-departmental coordination to rein in the mosquito-borne diseases. “The mosquito control measures are needed round the year. But if other allied issues including garbage disposal, water scarcity and illegal constructions are not addressed simultaneously, then these measures will not yield the desired results,” health activist Sanjay Dabhade said.
 
 
