JALANDHAR: Even as   (SAD) has started raising the issue of Sikhs having a separate religious identity than Hindus and demanding an amendment to Article 25 B of the Constitution, its alliance partner   is taking a more guarded approach.   chief and Union minister   is advocating "thorough deliberations" as a separate identity may mean that scheduled castes among Sikhs fall out of the ambit of reservation. The Article clubs Sikhs, Jains and Buddhists along with Hindus.

 "As of now, we have not taken a definitive view (on the issue) and there should be no hurry either,"   told   on Thursday. "We want that the issue to be thoroughly debated and experts consulted about all the implications - especially for SCs." Sampla belongs to the Scheduled Caste and is an Adi-Dharmi Dalit.
 
 As per the 2011 Census, Sikh and Hindu Dalits comprise nearly one-third of Punjab's population of 2.7 crore making it one of the highest in the country in percentage terms. The two major Dalit communities of Punjab, the Adi dharmi/Ravidassia community and the Valmiki/Mazhabi community, make for around 25% of state's population; remaining are 6%.
 
 
 
 
 Sampla said, “SCs among Sikhs are getting reservation because they are clubbed with Hindus. Taking Sikhs away from the Hindu ‘code’ can adversely affect their reservation. This issue has a big social aspect. Any decision should be taken not according to the wishes of a few, the larger interest of society must be considered.”
 
 According to him the advantages and disadvantages of the amendment must be discussed with experts so that SCs among Sikhs don’t suffer. To further clarify his point, Sampla argued that no one among Muslims and Christians gets the benefit of reservation.
 
 A delegation of senior leaders of SAD, led by its secretary general and Rajya Sabha member Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, had on January 2 met Union finance minister Arun Jaitley and law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad to raise their demand for Sikhs to be identified as a separate religion. This is of course an old demand that SAD has raised after keeping it in cold storage for more than three decades. SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal had already said that he is very serious about the amendment to Article 25 of the Constitution and that his party would take the issue to its logical conclusion.
 
 On Wednesday, SAD spokesperson Manjinder Singh Sirsa raised the issue in Delhi assembly. Giving a notice to Delhi assembly speaker for moving a motion to recommend the amendment to ensure independent Sikh religious identity in the Constitution, he made an appeal to all MLAs of Delhi to pass the motion.
 
 
 
