MUMBAI: In a  , one of the oldest pending before a   in the city, a 58-year-old   was recently convicted and sentenced to three years in prison for cheating   of Rs 16 lakh in 1990-92.

 In the case registered in 1993, police alleged that the accused, Ali Hasan, took the divisional manager’s help to misappropriate part of the premium amount collected from several   holders. Over the next three decades, the divisional manager and other accused were discharged in the case. 
 
 Based on information collected from sources, though, the   and the   registered a case on December 27, 2012.
 
 Initially, the case was registered under the Prevention of Corruption (PC) Act after cops suspected involvement of insurance company officials too. The chargesheet was submitted before the court in 1996. While the divisional manager was discharged in 1998, two other insurance agents booked in the case were granted similar relief in 2001. With no public servant involved in the case, charges under the PC Act were dropped and, by a 2008 order, the matter came to be tried before the magistrate court. It was tried under Indian Penal Code sections.
 
 Nineteen witnesses deposed during trial. Key witnesses included two internal auditors of the insurance company. The duo told the court that on directions of the chief manager, in 1993, they conducted an audit on the motor insurance policies booked by Hasan. The auditing was done for the period April 1, 1990, to November 11, 1992. The duo told the court they found that Hasan had shown lower premium amount in daily collection sheets than those actually shown on the policy. Further, they submitted that Hasan had fabricated the documents and caused loss of more than Rs 16 lakh to the insurance company.
 
 Relying on witness statements, the court found Hasan guilty on charges of cheating, criminal breach of trust by an agent and falsification of accounts.
 
 While seeking leniency for the Andheri-based accused, the defence submitted that the case had gone on for more than two decades and the accused had attending the court regularly. The defence also said the accused was very poor, had no adequate source of income and his two daughters depended on him. Opposing this, the prosecution submitted that this was an economic offence against the country and such offences have to be dealt with a special approach because of public funds involved. The prosecution further submitted that misappropriation of more than Rs 16 lakh was committed and the value of that amount was very high more than two decades ago.
 
 While the maximum sentence was seven years’ imprisonment, the court sentenced Hasan to three years’ imprisonment and fined him a total of Rs 45,000.
 
 
