CHENNAI: For long,   working president M K   had been a fan of Jayalalithaa’s style of administration, both in the government and her party. Stalin wants to ape it now in his own party. 

 In the ongoing interaction with district-level functionaries and cadres of the party, Stalin has said they should put up with his autocratic style of functioning from now onwards, if they wish for the party to grow. 
 
 Indiscipline and anti-party activities would never be tolerated hereafter, he said, speaking to cadres from Theni, Tirunelveli and Sivaganga districts, here on Friday. A committee headed by party’s legal advisor N R Elango will examine all intra-party squabbles and power struggles, he said. 
 
 “We have received several complaints from all levels of the district units during my interaction. For the sake of party’s growth and success, I need to be autocratic (sarvadhikari). The Elango committee will probe all the complaints as well as the veracity of the complaints given by  ,” said Stalin. 
 
 He also warned the cadres of filing any false complaints against district secretaries or other leaders. “The committee will take to task the person who complained against a leader if it is found to be false. At the same time, I can assure you that genuine complaints will be addressed in a manner which is beneficial to the party,” said Stalin. 
 
 “I will not mind taking action against those who are close to me. They cannot throw weight among cadres by stating that they are close to me,” said Stalin.
 
 Stalin’s review meetings with cadres has been a boon as well as a bane for the partymen. 
 
 “The party has four levels of hierarchy in each district. Most of the complaints received are from panchayat level members against their immediate higher ups or the district secretary. The committee will be touring the entire state and spending time with the persons who filed the complaints party district wise, and ascertain the truth in them,” said a senior party leader. 
 
 The Elango committee has many advocates from the party’s legal wing. “The committee will strive to put an end too all intra-party feuds, once Stalin completes   cadres from all party districts, which will be on till March 22, with Chennai district being the last,” said the leader. At least 100 complaints are dropped in the box during a single session,” he added.
 
 
