CHANDIGARH: Almost two-decade-old sewerage and water pipelines in old sectors of Chandigarh have become a headache for the residents, who are demanding that the pipes be replaced as they were getting contaminated water supply because of the leakage. 

 During a visit to sectors 19, 22, 34, 35 and Manimajra, residents complained about getting contaminated water supply. While pipes in parts of Sector 22 were repaired after problem of contaminated water supply, rest of the area is in the waiting list. As per the   records, pipes installed in the residential area of   are almost 25 years old.
 
 According to residents, pipes are rusted as they are old leading to leakage. It has become a routine affair that the houses are getting muddy water supply as the underground water pipes leak leading to  . “Despite repeated complaints to the authorities concerned, nothing has been done,” they added. The municipal corporation staff had temporary repaired the pipelines, but the problem of leakage could not be resolved. 
 
 Interestingly, there is no data available with the department about the points where there could be major leakage in underground pipelines in these sectors. On receiving complaints from the residents about leakage, the MC staff repairs it temporarily, but the officials are clueless about underground pipelines. 
 
 The civic body officials said that as majority of the pipelines were under roads due to widening and laying of paver blocks, the department was helpless in keeping any manual monitoring of any underground water leakages.
 
 Colonel  , president of the resident welfare association of  , said they had written to the MP on February 7, 2018, to release funds for repair of old and leaky pipeline, but they were yet to get a response. He added that the public health staff that visited the area to repair the pipelines showed helplessness in finding a permanent solution to the problem and temporary repairs resolved the issue for a month or so. “Every time the public health staff comes for repair, they dug neighbourhood parks that the residents have been maintaining,” he added. 
 
 Amarjit Singh Sivia, president of the residents welfare society, Sector 35, said they had raised the issues several times with the area councillor, but nothing had been done till date.
 
 Area councillor of Sector 22 Ravi   said, “I am aware about the issue and I have recently got sewerage pipelines repaired after I got complaints. The MC will soon float the tender for repair of sewerage pipelines across the city .” 
 
 Ravinder Kaur, area councillor of Sector 35, said she would take up the issue of repair of the pipelines.
 
 
