KOLKATA: After a few scorching days, the city finally received a light drizzle on Thursday afternoon, accompanied by a mild thunderstorm with a wind speed of 38kmph. Even though the mercury didn't dip significantly, conditions turned bearable and   had a respite from the stifling heat - the city recorded a maximum temperature of 36.2°C on Thursday. The Met office said Kolkata could receive a nor'wester on Friday. 

 The neighbouring districts of South and North 24 Parganas,   and Howrah, however, received stronger thundershowers. 
 
 A cyclonic circulation over Madhya Pradesh and a steady moisture incursion over the last few days, triggered the storm. "The conditions that we need for a thunderstorm had been missing over the last fortnight or so. Moisture incursion had been insufficient, partly due to the deep depression that had formed over east-central   near Myanmar. Now that the system has fizzled out, moisture is again flowing into south Bengal. There is also enough heating over the Jharkhand region to suck in the moisture. Since the circulation over Madhya Pradesh persists, we expect another thunderstorm on Friday," said   (RMC) director G K Das.
 
 He added that thunderstorms will now lose intensity and squalls will be rare. "Since we are approaching monsoon, systems will now be localized with a shorter tail. So, the areas affected will be smaller and the wind speed, too, will not be very high," said Das. Thursday's thunderstorm affected the northern parts of the city more than the south. South Kolkata received just a drizzle while some parts of north got a heavy downpour, though it didn't last long.
 
 The city is expected to receive the monsoon on the scheduled date - June 10. But weathermen said the eastern region is yet to be hit by the monsoon currents. "We expect some of the northeastern states to receive monsoon over the next 24 hours. Once they do, we will have a clearer picture about the possible date of its arrival in Kolkata and south Bengal," said an RMC official.
 
 
