CHANDIGARH: The city’s wait to get battery-operated buses has gotten longer, as the Union ministry of urban development has not included Chandigarh in the list of cities to get funds for buses in the first phase.

 
 The Union ministry has announced it will fund 11 cities — Delhi, Lucknow, Jammu, Kolkata, Indore Jaipur, Mumbai, Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Allahabad and Guwahati — in the first phase, while all selected cities will be provided funding in next phases. All 11 cities will be provided Rs 15 crore each for purchasing battery-operated buses.
 
 
 The central government has framed a  , which aims at promoting hybrid and electric vehicles in the country. The proposal of Chandigarh administration to introduce battery-operated buses in its fleet has been approved by the ministry. Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) plans to purchase of a total of 20 battery operated buses.
 
 
 CTU plans to induct electric buses in its fleet with an aim to cut down air pollution. Over the years, the quality of air in the city has deteriorated beyond the permissible limit. Data compiled by Chandigarh   Committee (CPCC) in past few years shows that the level of repairable suspended particulate matter (RSPM) has been recorded above the permissible limit, which is 100 microgram per cubic metre (mcg/cu m).
 
 
 CTU had submitted the proposal after conducting trials of two buses manufactured by two different firms. The test run was carried out on a stretch between Post Graduate Institute of Medical Research and Education (PGIMER) and Rajiv Gandhi Chandigarh Technology Park (RGCTP), covering a distance of over 240 KM daily.
 
 
 During the trial, a weight of around 1,750kg was put on the buses. An 11-member team was constituted for inspecting the buses and compiling a report on them. Based on the report of the team, the authorities took the decision to purchase battery operated buses.
 
 
 According to officials, the battery-operated buses have a life of 10 years and cover over 250km in one charge. It takes around 6 hours to charge a bus. At present, CTU has 539 buses, of which 413 run on local/suburban routes connecting Chandigarh with   The buses ferry around 2 lakh passengers on a daily basis. On an average, a CTU bus plies 389.83 passengers per bus per day.
 
 
