Director   believes in telling simple stories with a profound message. While his film, 'OMG — Oh My God!', was a satire on the state of religion in our country, this time around, he is back with a touching story of a father and son. In a chat with BT, the filmmaker, who has worked extensively in Gujarati theatre, talks about bringing the two stalwarts —   and   — together after 27 years, why he is least worried about the number game and the message that his upcoming release, ' ', conveys. Excerpts…

 
 
 I was looking for the right script. I want to offer content that’s relevant rather than give into pressure. I don’t want to make movies for the sake of money. I want to make movies that entertain and convey a message. There was a phase in the industry when everybody was making biopics or films on sports; I didn’t want to fall into that trap. I have written, directed and acted in several Gujarati plays and I feel that there are some good subjects that need to be explored. '102 Not Out' is adapted from a Gujarati play that I produced. While working on the play, I realised that it’s a character suited for Mr Bachchan. Saumya Joshi — the writer-director of the play — and his wife took almost a year-and-a-half to convert it into the film. When I met Bachchan saab, he told me that he loved 'OMG...' and asked me what I was working on next. I narrated the crux of the story and he gave his nod within 10 minutes. That was my ‘Oh My God’ moment (smiles). Just like Mr Bachchan, Chintuji (Rishi Kapoor), too, agreed to do the film 10 minutes into the narration.
 
 
 
 Their working style is totally different. Bachchan saab does a lot of homework and is in tune with his character. He is a method actor, but it never shows in his acting. If a scene requires him to be happy, he will be in that mood. But if he is shooting a serious scene, you will find him sitting quietly. Chintuji is spontaneous, but he is always thinking of improvisations. Both come from different schools of acting, but jab rehearsal kar ke take lete the, dono ki bonding aisi thi ki kabhi aisa lagta nahi tha ki woh log 27 saal ke baad ek saath kaam kar rahe hain.
  
 
 
 It’s a youthful film, it’s just that the central characters are old. It’s a love story between a father and son. It would have been preachy and the message wouldn’t have come out so beautifully if I had cast younger actors. The play has been running for six years and 70 per cent of the audience are youngsters. The message of the film is, ‘Logon ki life mein happiness ka quotient zyada hona chahiye. With that, the rest can be managed.’
 
 
 
 The film is about living your life to the fullest despite difficulties. It shocks me when I hear about students committing suicide after failing in examination or people ending their lives after being spurned in love. On the other hand, there are people suffering from serious diseases who yearn to live normally, but sadly, their bodies don’t support them. Aapko itni khubsoorat life mili hai, but you don’t want to enjoy it over petty issues. People are stuck in their past and keep complaining that ab woh maza nahi raha. I would like to tell them, ‘Mazaa abhi bhi hai, but you have locked yourself and invited loneliness’.
 
 
 
 I knew that 'OMG...' would get noticed, but I hadn’t anticipated its box-office success. Even today, I don’t understand the business aspects because I don’t think in that direction. A film made with utmost honesty and good intent will always touch the audience’s heart. I believe in good and bad films rather than hits and flops. If it’s good, it will do well at the box office. I am happy if people call my film a good movie, even if it doesn’t fare well at the box office.
 
 
 
 There are many issues, but I don’t want to make a film highlighting the problem. I don’t want to do that just because we know that the sequel will rake in money. The makers of Munnabhai took time to return with a sequel, and it was better than the previous film. The second installment should be better than the original.
 
 
 
 Main lucky hoon ki main itna bada star nahi tha ki mujhe unn logon ne chhod diya. Uss waqt bhi threats aaye the, utne nahi aaye tha, but andar se threats mili thi. Logon ne bola tha ki jeena mushkil ho jaayega. Kuchh logon toh ne anti-OMG plays bhi banaye the aur uske videos bhi viral hue the. But then, everyone is entitled to their opinions. It wasn’t an anti-God movie or else we wouldn’t have shown Krishna in it. It was about wrong beliefs. It was a thin line, and had we overstepped it at any point or improvised it too much, it would have led to serious problems. That didn’t happen because it was a balanced film.
 
 
