Visakhapatnam: The old order changeth, yielding place to new... Year 2017 is gone, we are in 2018. And as has become the norm and fashion before the start of every  , it’s the time to make, and break, resolutions. 

 Netizens have all of a sudden become polite to each other, and are keen on talking about resolutions than about what they stand for. Citizens of the cyber world have put an end to all the sabre-rattling and warmongering that loomed large over the last one month. Politics and matters of sexual choice have been put aside and Netizens are busy how to mark the first week of the New Year.
 
 The resolutions range from the normal to the bizarre. For some Netizens, the resolutions have probably been the same for over the last decade or so — “I shall not smoke or drink” — to the regular “I shalt not sin” fare. But there are some whose resolutions are quite offbeat. One Netizen resolved to gain more weight so that any drop in scales would be welcomed by his near and dear ones. Some resolved to hop into a random train and go on a circuitous journey that would end only on December 31, 2018. One naughty Netizen, J Cove, observed: “I resolve to fall in love, fall in love for the first time and hope that this time it is for real!” No doubt he’s a Freddie Mercury fan.
 
 Though not all Netizens look serious about their resolutions, some surely do. R V K Raju, a regular on Facebook, said: “I resolve to take my work more seriously than ever. Just can’t afford to be jobless.” 
 
 K Manoj, another Netizen who has been ‘comfortably’ unemployed for some time, resolved: “I shall announce my retirement if anybody asks me what I intend to do with my life.” A number of his friends found him truly resolute.
 
 There are also a few who resolved not to make any resolutions. K Srinivas sounded very serious and deep when he typed, “I resolve not to make any resolutions, as resolutions are meant to be broken and broken they shall be.” They are also some whose resolutions appear more than a bit far-fetched, like ardent Telugu movie buff R Ramesh: “I refuse to watch Telugu movies unless and until women are given meatier roles.” It invited a fast reaction from his naughty friend, “What do you mean by meaty???” 
 
 The Netizens by and large are on a fun trip and the cyber highway, for once, wears a relaxed look, with the regulars leaving out the baggage and letting off the barrage, for some time at least. For, we all know it will be business as usual after a few days.
 
 
