PANAJI: With the process of identifying private forests declared complete after a long-delayed exercise of 20 years, the forest department faces a major challenge in demarcating the areas across Goa amidst commercial pressure to exclude some patches.

 The identification process is seen as a step towards securing Goa’s green wealth for posterity, as the present development model and lack of political will to expedite the survey already led to losses of large areas of natural resources and biodiversity. The state’s beaches and green cover are considered natural assets that attract people from all over the world to Goa.
 
 After completion of the process, the state government recently dissolved the north and south Goa forest division committees involved in identifying more areas. Two committees, the   committee formed in 1998, and the Karapurkar committee formed in 2000, had initially identified some areas.
 
 What lies ahead now is the challenging process of demarcating the areas of private forest in about 200 villages in both districts, and activists realize that the work will have to be closely monitored by civil society to prevent manipulation.
 
 The state government last week notified a nine-member private forests review committee to examine grievances of private citizens and environmental groups regarding the inclusion or non-inclusion of patches. “The committee will review digitized maps of private forest areas prepared using state records and overlaid on the satellite imageries of the forest survey of India ( ) for assessment of forest cover in Goa,” the notification states.
 
 The committee will avail FSI’s technical expertise to ascertain the composition and canopy density of identified areas in cases of any dispute. “The deputy conservator of forests of the respective territorial divisions will then carry out ground verification in cases of ambiguity,” the notification states.
 
 After this process is complete, the committee will have three months to prepare and submit the final report.
 
 Environmentalists are not keen about the constitution of another committee. “This committee may help builders and politicians to further destroy Goa’s green cover, which would increase man-animal conflict and affect avian biodiversity and other biota,”  , an environmentalist said.
 
 
