HYDERABAD: 'Sakala Nerasthula Samagra Survey', a massive coordinated police effort of collecting comprehensive details of persons with criminal history, started across the state on Thursday with in-charge director-general of police (DGP) M   personally participating in the exercise in  . The process of gathering details of persons involved in crimes during the past decade may continue for over a week.

 The DGP along with Hyderabad commissioner   visited   in Habeebnagar, where several repeat offenders reside. Police teams collected fingerprints, Aadhaar numbers of the offenders and their family members and gathered details about their current means of livelihood.
 
 Reddy also visited   in   police limits of Cyebrabad commissionerate and Saroornagar of Rachakonda commissionerate to take stock of the proceedings.
 
 The DGP said the aim of the survey was to locate the offenders who were repeatedly involved in crimes during the past decade across   and collect their details to add to the police database. "We are visiting houses of the offenders based on the details they provided at the time of arrest. We are collecting their means of livelihood to understand if they are still committing crimes or earning their livelihood in a legal way. Police will support the offenders who have reformed and joined the mainstream. At the same time, we will initiate stringent action against repeat offenders by keeping a watch on their movements," he added.
 
 The data collected would be made available to field-level police personnel through TSCOP online application. As an offender's location was being geo-tagged, cops could easily navigate to the address and examine his/her role in a particular offence. "We are trying to gather details of 2.8 lakh offenders, including their whereabouts and means of livelihood. We are making a list of offenders who had committed crimes in Telangana and residing in other states. Soon, our teams will go to those states and gather their details to add to the database. Our aim is to make Telangana a crime-free state," the DGP said.
 
 There are 41,800 offenders in Hyderabad, 42,360 in Cyberabad and 15,207 in Rachakonda.
 
 
