BATHINDA: Protests for giving Punjabi language its “due place” are back. Calling themselves “aficionados” of the language, protesters in Bathinda started blackening signboards written in English and Punjabi on Saturday night.

 Supported by NGO Malwa Youth Federation and political outfit Dal Khalsa, Punjabi Maa Boli Satlkar Committee has announced that its members and activists would blacken signboards across all 22 districts of Punjab up till April 13, Baisakhi.
 
 The protesters targeted income-tax office, district administrative complex and a   branch at the district complex in Bathinda on Saturday night. A spokesperson for the committee, gangster-turned-activist   alias Lakha, said they wanted boards to be written either only in Punjabi or at least Punjabi should be written at the top.
 
 Such protests — a violation of the law — had last taken place in October last year. At that time, the protesters had blackened signboards on the Bathinda-Amritsar highway and were charged with criminal cases for causing damage to public property.
 
 The protests have started even as Punjab finance minister   has set aside Rs 25 core in the state budget for 2018-19 fiscal for the promotion of Punjabi language. Dal Khalsa vice-president   said Punjabi language should be given prominence, here it was being written at the bottom, after Hindi and English, at many places. “We could not tolerate this treatment with our mother tongue. We took up the issue with the administrations of all 22 districts in recent past, but they did not pay heed to our pleas. Going by it, activists have showcased their annoyance by starting the move to blacken boards. We went to jail for blackening boards on October 21, 2017, and are ready to go to jail again if the state does not change its step-motherly behaviour towards Punjabi,” Mehraj said.
 
 Lakha said they had started from Bathinda and went on till Patiala. “Other teams have blackened boards at other places across the state. We will not sit back till all boards written in Hindi or English at top are not blackened,” he said.
 
 The Shiromani Akali Dal (Amritsar) and farmer organisation BKU Krantikari, too, supported the move and sent its activists to blacken boards.
 
 
