KOLKATA: Cellphone subscribers across all networks in the city are once again getting used to recorded voice messages like “all lines in this route are busy”, “this number is not valid”, “please check the number you’ve dialled”, “this number doesn’t exist”. In some cases, all they can hear is the sound of a ring or just a beep.

 “These announcements are nothing but a new ploy by the telecom operators. Whatever hassles we face, they will never take the responsibility,” said  , a homemaker from Bhowanipore.
 
 Many like Banerjee have been fuming at the telecom service operators in Kolkata and the suburbs. Subhankar Chanda, a startup owner, is fed up with the miserable services. “Whenever I am calling my father from my mobile, I am told the number is invalid. Every time I fail to connect, I get a different reason or just get to hear a beep,” he said.
 
 However, telecom specialists feel that this is happening because the return on investment for private telecom operators is not significant here. And if the private operators have to do business in this low average revenue per user (ARPU) scenario, the common subscribers may have to live with this amid lack of infrastructure.
 
 Suvra Sekhar Das, associate professor,   at IIT Kharagpur, told 
 : “The fault may lie in the deployment of the globally tested technology here in India. The sky-high ground-level consumers’ demand cannot be the same in an advanced country.” Das also blamed it on unavailability of network site space in some signal-blind spots of the busy city.
 
 On the reasons cited for the call snags, Das said, the cellular operators must solve it now with mapping correction of their voiceover software.
 
 However, no active telecom operator in the city is coming clean on this. E-mails sent to Bharti Airtel, Vodafone and Reliance Jio didn’t elicit any response till the time the story was sent for publication.
 
 Some officials from top mobile operators suggested 
 to talk to the Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI) or sector watchdog Trai for comments.
 
 COAI said call drops are brought to the attention of the individual operators, but the association does not support any wrong announcements or unhealthy practices. Rajan S Mathews, DG, COAI, said: “One may contact any cellular operator directly, citing a particular case or some malpractice. COAI can only talk about common industry issues.”
 
 Call disruptions from one network to another network are prevalent too. And telecom pundits say it is bound to happen in a multi-operator business model. K C Ghosh of   explained, “A smooth call from one operator to another operator will only happen when both the systems are working fine.”
 
 
