NAGPUR: Kin of nearly 40 victims of pesticide inhalation, who died between August to October last year but were missed out of the government aid announced by the chief minister, will be getting compensation only now.

 Soon after the deaths were reported, an aid of Rs2 lakh each was announced by CM  . The amount was quickly distributed among the families in Yavatmal district, but many in other districts were left out, said sources. Those who died were mainly farm workers engaged to spray pesticides.
 
 The incidents were reported in rest of the state too, though the number was maximum in Yavatmal. Later, the compensation was hiked to Rs4 lakh each following the high court verdict on a PIL filed by a Nagpur-based activist Jammu Anand.
 
 A meeting was held by chief secretary on implementation of the court order this week. Directions were issued for the respective district collectors to submit a proposal for getting the amount through chief minister’s relief fund, said sources. It came out that except Yavatmal, victims’ kin in other districts did not get even the compensation announced originally.
 
 “The relief amount was mainly distributed to the relatives in Yavatmal district which had seen the highest toll. However, other areas were left out,” said a source. Those in Yavatmal will now be getting another Rs2 lakh and others will straight away be getting the enhanced compensation of Rs4 lakh, the source said.
 
 In Vidarbha, pesticide inhalation deaths were reported from Amravati, Nagpur and Akola districts apart from Yavatmal. The source in the state government said over 63 deaths had been reported due to pesticide inhalation in the entire state. Out of these, 20-odd cases were from Yavatmal district which drew all the attention.
 
 Chairman of Vasantrao Naik Shetkari Swavalamban Mission (VNSSM)   said other districts remained neglected because no voice was raised. The district administration officials should have acted promptly, he said.
 
 After a large number of patients reached hospitals following inhalation poisoning, a PIL was filed in the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court seeking action. This was followed by state government forming a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the cases.
 
 Not satisfied with the SIT report, which did not name any official for the disaster, the petitioner sought a   inquiry from the court. The court not only enhanced the compensation but also directed the state to have a uniform policy for announcing compensations. The court order also gives the kin right to sue concerned state government officers if they find the enhanced compensation less.
 
 
