AHMEDABAD: In another incident of caste discrimination in Gujarat, a dalit youth’s moustache was shaved off allegedly by eight members of the Thakor community at Goral village of Idar taluka in Sabarkantha district. Sabarkantha police lodged an FIR and apprehended all eight accused in connection with the case under the Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.

 The dalit youth, identified as   (23), a postgraduate student of social work, was beaten blue and black for sporting a moustache and was hospitalized.
 
  In October last year, two dalit youth were allegedly beaten for sporting moustaches at   village in   district. A teenage boy had then staged a similar attack on himself after these two incidents.
 
  According to the FIR in the Goral case, “Pandya and two of his friends were going to a Vishnu temple of the village on his motorbike. At that time, Thakarda Bhaveshkumar Dalabhai, Thakarda Kanjibhai Chhanabhai and Thakarda Avinashbhai Babubhai—who were all armed with sticks and iron pipes, rushed towards Pandya and began abusing him. They kept asking how could he sport a big moustache. After this, Thakarda Dalabhai Ramabhai, Thakarda Dhulabhai Jesingbhai, Thakarda Ramanbhai Bhikhabhai, Thakarda Dhanjibhai Ramabhai and   rushed to Pandya and started beating him with sticks and pipes. When Pandya escaped and hid himself at a nearby house, the accused persons dragged him outside and Thakarda Kanjibhai Chhaganbhai forcibly shaved Pandya’s moustache with a razor.”
 
 In his statement to police, Pandya said, “I was beaten mercilessly and my moustache was shaved off because I belonged to a scheduled caste (SC).” He accused the eight Thakor community members of threatening his life as well.
 
 When Pandya was asked about any personal enmity with Thakor community members, he said, “I have never nursed an enmity with any of the villagers. I was sporting a moustache for around two years, but when I started roaming in the village with sunglasses and a moustache, they took objection of it and shaved it off. Even my parents were beaten by them for my sporting a moustache.”
 
 Village sarpanch   said, “Pandya, who is a Guru Brahmin, a dalit sub-caste, had a fight with a girl of the Thakor community 20 days ago which may have led to this incident of moustache shaving. The situation in the village is now normal.”
 
 
