PUNE: A man suffered a fracture on his nose and three others were injured in separate disputes over vehicle parking at Wanowrie,  , Chatushrungi and   over the past two days.

 Luxury bus driver Mahadev Kallapalle (42) needed four stitches on his head after a tours and travels firm staffer, Dattatraya Gurav (20), hit him with a stone over parking a bus near St Patrick’s Town in Wanowrie. The incident occurred around 10.30pm on Monday on a defence land used for parking buses.
 
 Senior inspector Sayaji Gaware of the Wanowrie police said, “We arrested Gurav under Section 324 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt) of IPC. He was later released on bail.”
 
 In Bhavani Peth, two persons assaulted tempo driver Shabbir Salim Shaikh (30) of Kasewadi with a stick. The duo damaged his motorbike besides threatening to kill him. Shaikh had parked his bike outside the shop of the suspects — Yamin and Tousif — near Gulshan bakery at Kasewadi around 8pm.
 
 The Khadak police’s assistant inspector Ramesh Pardeshi said, “One of the suspects picked up a stick, hit Shaikh and damaged his vehicle.” A search has been launched to arrest the duo from Kondhwa.
 
 At Chatushrungi, café shop owner Akash Pravin Pandhare (26) from Gokhalenagar got stitches on his left eyebrow after two men attacked him with a sharp weapon following a quarrel over parking his car near a mall at Aundh between 4pm and 5pm on Monday. Sub-inspector Tukaram Phad of the Chatushrungi police said, “We have issued notice to the suspects — Rohan Gaikwad and   — from Sangvi under Section 41 of the Criminal Procedure Code, requesting them to cooperate with the police during the investigation after they denied any involvement in attacking Pandhare.”
 
 Cut to Theregaon. Four men hit businessman Bipinchandra Delokar (35) with a stone and fractured his nose following a dispute over parking his car on their land. Assistant inspector Mahesh Swami of the Wakad police said, “The suspects — Prasanna Dange, his father Balasaheb and two others — called Deolkar outside his shop minutes after he parked the vehicle on the opposite side. They said he had no right to park his vehicle on a land owned by them and hit him with a stone. Deolkar got his nose fractured.”
 
 Deolkar, after treatment, lodged an FIR against them. 
 
 
