AHMEDABAD: To boost plastic exports from India and to reduce import dependence, industry stakeholders emphasized the need to expand manufacturing capacity of plastics industry across India. Industry representatives gathered for the inaugural ceremony of PlastIndia 2018 in Gandhinagar on Wednesday, which was inaugurated by chief minister Vijay Rupani and state energy minister Saurabh Patel.

  
  Domestic polymer consumption is expected to double by fiscal 2028 to 30 metric tonnes, according to industry estimates, which makes the expansion of manufacturing capacity all the more vital. “Packaging, electronics, agriculture, automotive and healthcare sectors are expected to record high growth volumes,” said M P Taparia, the chairman of the  . “Indian plastic industry will continue to grow above 8-10%. To keep the growth rate consistent, the industry needs an additional capacity of 1.25-1.5 million tonne every year which is often difficult to achieve.”
 
  
  Estimates of   (Plexconcil) indicate that despite good growth, India’s plastic exports account for less than 1% of global exports. “Global plastic exports are worth $850 billion while India’s exports stood at a meagre $7.5bn in fiscal 2016-17,” said Sribash Dashmohaptra, the executive director of Plexconcil.
 
 Industry representatives said that state governments and the Centre should draft industry-friendly policies to help boost exports. “In 2016, China exported plastics worth $138 billion while India only achieved $6 billion. To push exports, we request the Centre and states to become facilitators,” Taparia said. “We need suitable government policies and we do hope the GST Council will consider a low tax rate for the sector.”
 
 State chief secretary J N Singh, who was present at the inaugural ceremony, said: “Eighty per cent of plastic manufacturing units across   are MSMEs which create jobs. To fuel the industry further, we’ve announced the establishment of a specialised institution for plastic engineering and technology.
 
 Expansion focus on Gujarat
 
 Ahmedabad: Faridabad-based polymer additives manufacturer, HPL Additives, is mulling the establishment of a manufacturing facility in Dahej. “We are looking at an investment of Rs 100-150 crore in the facility, which will manufacture raw materials — mainly isobutylene and alkylated phenols — for our existing product lines of blowing agents and antioxidants,” said Umesh Anand, the joint managing director of the company. Primarily a manufacturer of specialty chemicals and polymer additives, the company aims to double its turnover in the next three years, said Anand.
 
 Box: Action in Silvassa 
 
 Ahmedabad: Delhi-based masterbatches manufacturer, Alok Masterbatches, is seeking to expand its existing manufacturing facility and is in the process of commissioning its sixth plant in Silvassa. “We plan to expand our capacity to 96,000 tonnes with the new plant,” said Amit Puri, the founder of the company. “A cumulative investment of Rs 50-75 crore has gone into the plant, which is set to be commissioned in March this year as part of the first phase.”
 
 
