THRISSUR:   drew to a close on Thursday noon with the ceremonial ' ' (bidding farewell ritual). A grand fireworks display was held here subsequently to mark the closing. 

 
 Only   and   devaswoms participated in the festivities and ceremonies of the second day of the Pooram as the eight minor participating temples had concluded their programmes.
 
 The second day - which is also known as ' ' - is mainly meant for the residents and large number of women also participate in it. The events of the second day began with the processions of Paramekkavu and Thiruvambady sides from specially-erected pandals at Manikandanal and Naikkanal in the heart of the city.
 
 The Pandimelam of Paramekkavu side was led by eminent percussionist Peruvanam Kuttan Marar, while the elephant Guruvayur Nandan carried the thidambu (replica of the presiding deity of the temple). However, the thidambu was shifted on to the elephant Paramekkavu Rajendran during the farewell ritual. Kizhakoottu Aniyan Marar led the Pandimelam of Thiruvambady temple while the elephant Thiruvambady Chandrasekharan carried the thidambu.
 
 The processions concluded at the 'Sreemoolasthanam area' in front of the Vadakkunnathan temple around 12 noon. Subsequently, the elephants carrying the replicas of Thiruvambady and Paramekkavu stood facing each other and lifted their trunks as part of the farewell ritual, marking the conclusion of the 36-hour cultural extravaganza.
 
 The main fireworks display was held early on Thursday. The Paramekkavu side was the first to light up the skies at 3.30am and Thiruvambady followed at Thekkinkadu Maidan.
 
 Thrissur corporation launched cleaning operations at the ground and   where the main events were held. As many as 160 daily-wages workers of the corporation and 40 Kudumbashree volunteers took part in the cleaning operations, said deputy mayor Beena Murali. NCC cadets have reportedly agreed to join the cleaning operations on Friday. The next edition of Pooram will be held on May 15, 2019.
 
 
 
