HYDERABAD: Wondering what else would shake the conscience of authorities other than the ghastly video of a   minutes after her birth, the   on Tuesday made it clear that it wants stringent and quick punishment handed over to perpetrators of the crime.

 A quack in   at Saidabad is reportedly seen in the video killing the baby.
 
 A Bench of acting Chief Justice   and Justice K Vijaya Lakshmi was dealing with a public interest petition filed by R   complaining of pre-natal diagnosis and female foeticide taking place in Gayathri Nursing Home, Saidabad. The petitioner submitted a pen drive with video footage which showed quack Sarwari Unrisa — who works at the nursing home — crushing a   with her bare hands.
 
 The Bench last week directed additional police commissioner of Hyderabad to investigate the matter and file an action taken report. The report merely said that a case was registered against Unrisa and Gayathri Nursing Home.
 
 The Bench frowned upon the ‘leisurely pace’ at which the additional commissioner was going forward with a case of such importance.
 
 The Bench directed the commissioner of police, Hyderabad, to entrust the case to a competent officer to exclusively probe and file an action taken report within one week. It said the the Hyderabad city police commissioner would otherwise have to be physically present before the court.
 
 The Bench was unhappy that the police chose to arrest the petitioner basing on a complaint by the hospital. “Something is wrong, they will arrest those who bring things to our notice,” the acting CJ fumed. He asked whether the video was sent to forensic science lab and whether the quack was arrested. The bench could not get replies for this. The additional police commissioner report makes no mention about efforts made to trace the quack, the Bench said.
 
 The state counsel said doctors themselves closed the hospital after reports about illegal sex determination tests and female foeticide. The bench directed authorities not to permit the hospital to open.
 
 The case has been posted for next week.
 
 
