HYDERABAD: With no response from potential bidder’s for Telangana State Road Transport Corporation’s ( ) plans to introduce 60 new buses, commuters will have to make do with the existing fleet of air-conditioned buses plying in the western corridor this summer.

 According to officials, TSRTC had planned to hire 100 AC buses, of which 40 were to be deployed on the   (RGIA) route and 60 on the   route. While tenders were floated to hire AC buses, TSRTC struggled to get response.
 
 “In the first round of tenders, we received no response from bidders. Therefore, we decided to float a second round of tenders in a hope that companies would come forward. However, it is unlikely that additional buses will ply on city roads any time soon,” said Purshottam Reddy, executive director, Greater Hyderabad zone, TSRTC.
 
 Of the 155 AC buses currently plying on city roads, 32 are operating on the RGIA route and the rest cater to the western corridor. With the demand for AC buses expected to rise during summer, officials claim the tender process may take about three months. “After bidders come forward, it takes 100 days for them to provide buses. By then the summer season will be over. It is unfortunate that we may not be able to accommodate our customer’s demands,” said a TSRTC employee.
 
 What’s making matters worse is the absence of bus shelters in various areas including Miyapur, Kondapur, Gachibowli, KPHB. Bus drivers often get perplexed as to where to stop the bus in the area’s which lack this basic facility. They then halt at spots where they find sizeable commuters.
 
 “With the onset of summer, authorities must come up with temporary measures at bus stops to protect commuters from heat,” said   K, a bank employee who travels from Financial District to   every day.
 
 Meanwhile, the   is in the process of constructing 826 modernized bus shelters across the city. The shelters would be equipped with facilities such as toilets, mobile charging points, , ATMs and air-conditioning.
 
