BHOPAL: National Law Institute University (NLIU) will conduct a thorough probe against the 16 students, who were allegedly awarded BA LLB degrees, despite failing in the examination.

 
 The governing council of NLIU on Saturday agreed to appoint a single-member probe committee led by a retired justice over the issue, sources said. As per sources, the council will meet again to decide the fate of suspended assistant registrar  . In last meeting, Singh was allegedly found guilty of issuing the ‘pass’ degree to 16 students who had failed. It was also mentioned that there were other people involved in degree scam, and this should be probed.
 
 Retired Justice A K Gohil had conducted the probe, and in his report Singh was held responsible for the scam. Gohil will also probe issuing of ‘pass’ degrees to failed students, sources said.
 
 Notably, an internal committee of NLIU had probed allegations of issuance of degree certificates to some failed students. In its report, it had concluded that 16 students were allegedly awarded BA LLB degrees despite failing in exams. After report was received, assistant registrar (exam) Singh was suspended.
 
 The issue came to fore in November 2016 and realising the sensitivity of the issue, a three-member committee comprising S S Kushwah, U P Singh and   was constituted. It was asked to submit report at the earliest. Committee had submitted its first report in May 2017, second one in July 2017 and third in September 2017. On basis of report, a single-member committee under retired Justice   was formed to probe the matter. Gohil had submitted the report in last meet. It was stated in internal committee report that there was a mismatch in entries of the marks in tabulation charts and award-lists at various places, and students who allegedly failed were give ‘pass’ degrees.
 
 Internal committee had observed overwriting and use of whitener in some tabulation charts, at some places with initials and without initials. Committee had stated that after overwriting, students were shown to have obtained ‘pass’ marks in awardlist and tabulation charts.
 
