CHANDIGARH: The   (MC) seems to have learnt no lesson from the series of fires that broke out in the   market recently, the latest being on February 19, it continues to overlook the violations in the buildings.

 The market has seen several fire incidents in the recent years including the one in the Sector 22 photo laboratory in April, 2009, in which four people had lost their lives. Incidentally, Monday’s fire also gutted a photo laboratory in the same market. However, despite the tragedies, no steps have been taken to remove the violations, which act as a catalyst to these occurences.
 
 On a visit to the Sector 22 market opposite ISBT, Sector 17, on Wednesday, TOI found a number of violations that have not been removed by the shopkeepers and are overlooked by the MC for years now.
 
 Multiple cabins with hardly any space have been allowed to be constructed in the building blocks, which again have no escape routes. There were loose wires everywhere, outside and inside the building, which could easily spark off flames any time. The facade of the buildings were mostly covered with sign boards, which would prevent firemen from shooting water at the affected areas in case of fire. Also, many fire extinguishers were outdated and water hoses have not been used in years.
 
 In some of the shops, water tanks were empty and filled with dust. One of the important equipment, smoke detector, was missing in majority of the shops. Transmission line at the mobile market at Sector 22 was found to be laid at a lower height from the ground. The wires of the line were also in very poor condition.
 
 According to the chief fire officer M L  , notices for violations have been served to the shopkeepers from time to time. “We have been sending notices to the shopkeepers for violations. Action is also taken against all those who do not follow the fire safety,” said Sharma.
 
 President of Chandigarh Vyapar Mandal Anil Vohra said, “There should be more water tanks having higher capacity in the market. Last year, I had also requested the MC to provide better facilities to stop fire incidents.”
 
 
 
