MUMBAI: The state government has said over 13,500 children up to the age of five died between April 2017 and February 2018, with prematurity and   causing onethird of the deaths.

 
  
 
 At least 65% of the babies died within 28 days of their birth, the state said in a recent RTI response, underlining the concerns around neonatal mortality once again.
 
 But experts are concerned about other issues. Gadchiroli-based paediatrician Dr Abhay Bang, who has been a part of state and national task forces to evaluate infant deaths and tribal issues, said the state was reporting only 25-30% of the actual under-5 mortality. “The unfortunate part is it was brought to their notice nearly 18 years ago, but authorities continue to under-report infant and child deaths in the state,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 Replying to a query filed by RTI activist Chetan Kothari, the state said of the 13,541 child deaths between April 2017 and February 2018, it had evaluated 11,532. While 21% were of babies between 28 days and one year old, 14% was among children in the 1-5 age group. The study also found that girls had better survival odds than boys, who accounted for 54% of the deaths.
 
 According to the data, 22% of babies succumbed to prematurity and being born underweight. Dr Bang said the national data suggests that the state’s under-5 mortality is around 30. “The state registers nearly 20 lakh births every year. So, if the under-5 mortality is 30, by simple calculation there should be around 60,000 deaths. Even if we consider the mortality rate has dropped to 25, there would still be 50,000-odd deaths,” he said.
 
 The other leading causes that babies have succumbed to-—including birth asphyxia, sepsis, diarrhoea, congenital malformation, and respiratory problems—have remained constant over the years, posing serious questions about the state-funded health schemes .
 
 A senior doctor from one of Mumbai’s public hospitals said these factors were not peculiar to the state. “Even in developed countries, these reasons contribute to 70-80% of child deaths. In fact, as under-5 mortality continues to fall, the share of neonatal deaths will be as high,” he said.
 
 But experts say the situation can be improved with lowcost interventions. Dr Sushant Mane, associate professor of paediatrics at JJ Hospital, said babies who are referred to cities almost always arrive at the crucial last minute. “ One way to address this would be to deliver such cases in a tertiary centre if the mother’s risk factor has been identified. That would allow the hospital to prepare better and offer the newborn immediate care.”
 
 Dr Bang said it was time the state adopted the tried-and-tested home-based newborn care model in tribal, rural and slum pockets more vigorously. “That has been known to curtail newborn deaths by 50%. It involves the delivery being conducted by a healthcare worker, who would also teach the mother how to breastfeed right and tackle any infection the baby develops.”
 
 A state official said Maharashtra currently stands third in the list of under-5 mortality as per 2016 figures. “The number now stands at 21 deaths per 1,000, from 23 deaths in 2014 and 24 in 2015. We are next only to Kerala that has the lowest childhood mortality at 11 followed by Tamil Nadu (19).”
 
 
