It was a dream come true moment for   survivor Pramodini Raul, who got engaged to her long time beau Saroj Sahoo on Valentine's Day at a popular cafe in Gomti Nagar. 
Pramodini, also known as Rani, was on cloud nine as she dressed up in a red lehenga and jewellery for the special day in her life. The café too was decked up with flowers and streamers for this special day. Sharing her love story, Rani, who hails from Odisha, said, "I met Saroj way back in 2014 at a hospital in   where I was undergoing treatment for my burn injuries. Saroj, was a medical representative and he used to pay me regular visits. He was the one who took up the challenge of making me stand on my feet despite the   claiming that I will never be able to walk again. And here I am now, standing in front of you, just because of Saroj. I had lost all my hopes that somebody would ever marry me because of my deformed face, but meeting Saroj was a life turning moment for me."
 Rani was 16 years-old when an obsessed lover threw acid on her face in 2009. She suffered 80 per cent burns and had total vision loss. She was bedridden without any movement for the next five years. Then Saroj , a medical representative met her in the hospital during her treatment. He gave her confidence and became her support system. It was his dedication towards Rani that in four months, with his encouragement, that she could sit, stand and walk. Three years later Saroj proposed to Rani, but she refused on grounds of her being blind. But after an eye operation last year, Rani got 20 per cent vision back in her left eye and that’s when she said yes to Saroj. Although, Rani still bears the scars of the attack on her body and in her heart, yet she is happy to be starting a new life. 
 Meanwhile, Saroj’s parents Karunakar Sahu and Sanjukta Sahu were the happiest ones among the guests, which included the city's who’s who, who had gathered to bless the couple. According to them, they could not have got a better girl than Pramodini for their son. 
 The event started off with a band performance by Unplugged. Danish and Aman sang various romantic hits while Ashutosh and Hasnain accompanied them on the guitar. Later, there was a special dance performance by the couple on Dil Diyan Gallan which earned them a huge round of applause. 
 Expressing his love for Rani, Saroj said, "I had never imagined that I would see Rani as my soul mate. She inspires me like anything. It’s her constant support that I made my parents agree to this marriage.” Rani’s mother Kavita, who got emotional while the duo exchanged rings, said, “I had given up all hopes and never imagined that my daughter would see such a day. I am so happy that she has found a life partner like Saroj who loves and cares for her so much."
 Later, the evening concluded on a light classical note where Dr   and Kailash Joshi rendered some ghazals. 
  — Prachi Arya
 
  
  Rani’s friends danced at the ceremony (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)
 
  
  (L-R) Ashutosh, Danish, Aman and Hasnain (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)
 
  
  Alok Dixit and Farha Khan (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)
 
  
  (L-R) Bala, Anshu, Roopa and Swati Singh (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)
 
  
  Saroj and Rani (R) Virendra Thappar (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)
 
