KOLKATA:   in the state will now have to go through a compulsory police   process and medical check-up while girls’   will soon have to employ female guards on the campus. Also, all these schools will have to stop recruiting teachers from external agencies on contract. 

 A meeting of the West Bengal Association of Christian Schools — counting 700 Catholic and Protestant schools as its members — held at the Methodist School in Dankuni on Saturday took these decisions to enhance security on campus in the wake of several recent cases of sexual abuse of students. Many of those accused in the recent cases include third-party recruitments (PT or dance teachers hired on contract from other agencies) and, in at least one case, the sexual orientation of a teacher was a matter of debate.
 
  
 
  
  
 
 Saturday’s decisions will be communicated to member schools so that they can start implementing them as soon as possible. “The mandatory health check-up and   verification for all teachers and the decision to stop hiring from other agencies should count among the most significant steps,” Methodist School principal Norton Emmanuel said.
 
 All member schools have been told to install CCTVs in as many places as possible to maintain an optimal level of surveillance.
 
 Another “very significant” decision taken on Saturday involved stipulation of reporting time at school. “Parents often send their children much before time. The association, for security reasons, has suggested that schools should instruct parents to drop their children at school not more than 30 minutes classes start,” association general secretary Malay D’Costa said. “Employment of female guards in girls-only schools, too, has been recommended along with male security guards,” he added.
 
 The association has also instructed that girls-only schools try “as much as possible” to employ female teachers in accordance with a recent Bengal government circular. Male teachers can be appointed, if adequately qualified women cannot be found, but they will have to take classes in the presence of female attendants. And coeducational schools have been told to ensure that no girl student is left alone with a male staff member.
 
 “Schools should organise regular parent-teacher meetings and parents should report to schools if a child refuses to attend classes. Any complaint of molestation should be given in a written format to the school,” Moloy D’Costa said.
 
 The association has also decided to set up sexual harassment committees in all schools to address complaints made by female teachers and staff.
 
 Archbishop Rev Thomas D’Souza, who addressed the meeting, said: “We have made it compulsory for schools to abide by these decisions. There are several guidelines issued by the school education department and boards. We have requested school managements to implement them.”
 
 St Xavier’s Collegiate School principal Fr Benny Thomas welcomed the initiative. “These decisions will definitely enhance the safety and security of students and employees and make parents feel more confident about their children’s security,” he added.
 
