NEW DELHI: “For the first time in years, the   are   the law. Please let them do their work,” the Delhi   on Thursday remarked while   to   a   over the   that took place on Wednesday in  .

 A bench of acting Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice C Hari Shankar said, “Schools are forced to shut for weeks because of pollution from constructions such as these. There is so little forest area left in Delhi as it is. Let the agencies protect them.”
 
 Appearing for the association claiming to represent the interests of those affected due to district authorities carrying out demolition to reclaim government and forest land, senior advocate Gopal Subramanium argued that there was no avenue available for the affected people to be heard.
 
 The former Solicitor General said that there was violation of the principles of natural justice by the administration, which out of the blue carried out the demolition, and sought an immediate stay highlighting that almost 16,000 residents of the village have been affected.
 
 But the bench was emphatic in its refusal. Instead, it threw a counter query at the senior counsel. “Show us even a single completion certificate. Is anything legal there? If we grant status quo, in no time the number of 16,000 will become 32,000 and then 64,000,” it observed.
 
 The court also underlined that the principles of natural justice come into play only if the occupants have any legal right. “Show us one document proving it. Only then can you demand a hearing on principles of natural justice,” remarked the bench.
 
 Subramanium argued that there is no forum to appeal for a person who has all valid documents and legal rights to occupy a property in Asola, but is still facing demolition squads. The bench then advised such a person to file an individual writ. The PIL was subsequently withdrawn.
 
 Meanwhile, south district has put under scrutiny land in the remaining 13-odd villages near Asola to identify encroachment and unauthorised construction. In the months ahead, plans are afoot to put data of land in all villages as per revenue records in the public domain on the district website.
 
 District magistrate Amjad Tak told TOI, “The idea is to put out verified records on the district website for all to see and report discrepancies.” On Thursday, the forest department started putting up boards to secure the land and prevent fresh encroachment.
 
 
