Chandigarh: Most residents and bird lovers of the Tricity possess fond memories and routine observations of the   perched daintily on tender flower stems and sipping nectar. The uncommon cousin of the purple avian is the Crimson Sunbird, whose dazzling belly kindles like a fire in the gentle rays of the morning sun.

 The Crimson Sunbird (Aethopyga siparaja) is an altitudinal migrant to the Tricity though rare nesting records of this species have been unearthed in the Panjab University’s Dr. PN Mehra Botanical Gardens. They are also observed at certain times of the year in the flowering bushes flanking the tee-off at the second hole of Chandigarh Golf Club or in gardens like Leisure Valley. The Purple Sunbird is, however, a resident species and breeds commonly in the Tricity. 
 
 A petite avian, the Crimson Sunbird is an average of 11 cm in length and weighs not more than a ‘tola’ (about 11gram) or a few more of flesh, bones and feathers. Indeed, so fragile are the Sunbirds that they would require a jeweller’s weighing scale to accurately measure substance. It may not be a coincidence that Crimson Sunbirds are oft found with their bills teasing open different flowers that are redolent of a rainbow of reds!
 
 The sub-continent’s legendary birdman, Dr Salim Ali, conjured a poetic vision of this avian: “'Flits about restlessly like a gem in the sunshine among blossoming shrubs and trees, hanging upside down and in other acrobatic positions to probe into the flower tubes for nectar. Also eats insects and spiders. Call: a sharp, harsh chichwee”.'
 
 The Sunbirds are favourite subjects of photographers, from professional avian lens hunters to housewives with smartphones and a moment to spare. The human eye is left thrilled by the spectacle of colourful Sunbirds clinging or hovering around beautiful blooms like hummingbirds. Indeed, the harmony of Sunbirds and flowers is so profound that it incites the observer to wonder thus: Should the Sunbird be compared to a flower or do flowers seek to emulate the sunbird’s many-splendoured plumes? Naturally, one of the Hindi vernacular names of the Crimson Sunbird is “'Phoolchuiya'” or the beautiful little rat in the kingdom of flowers!
 
 Bird photographer Dalvinder Singh has captured mesmerising frames of many bird species perched or hovering among flowers.”Practically, the Crimson Sunbird is more restless and less common than Purple Sunbird, so the former is more difficult to photograph. The Crimson Sunbird’s vocalisations are pitched higher and pack more variations than the Purple Sunbird. Even if you fail to notice the Crimson Sunbird in dense foliage, the bird can easily be recognised from its distinct calls,” Singh told TOI.
 
 The Crimson Sunbird exhibits acute sexual dimorphism and the female is decidedly dowdy in demeanour, does not possess the male’s flashy crimson and is a blend of dusky olive green and dull ashy green. Sunbirds are possessed with a slender curved bill and tubular tongue and that facilitates intake of nectar from tubular flowers. In turn, Sunbirds assists in pollination of tubular flowers that are otherwise restrictive to entry of butterflies and bees. 
 
 
