Panaji: More than two-and-half years after activist   Dias’s body was found floating in a tributary of Mandovi, his family announced on Monday that they are finally preparing to lay him to rest.

 In a statement, his family stated as a radiology test has been carried out on Dias’s body and no further tests can be carried out due to the deteriorated condition of the body, they have decided to proceed with the funeral.
 
 Dias’s body is presently at the Goa Medical College and Hospital morgue in Bambolim.
 
 The family has, however, not yet announced a date for the burial.
 
 “We shall now proceed with burial. We shall proceed as soon as we receive the radiology and other medical test reports. We may lay his earthly remains to rest, but our fight for justice continues,” Dias’s brother Mario stated in a statement on behalf of the family.
 
 The statement also says that the family has “longed to receive Bismarque’s earthly remains and have a proper farewell” for him.
 
 “But we also know that besides being our brother and our mai’s (mother’s) son, he was the son and brother of Jua (St Estevam) and Goa. Hence, we have waited patiently so that a proper investigation may be carried out and justice may be served,” the statement read.
 
 He said even as the family has decided to bury the body, their focus remains on collection and submission of evidence in the high court of Bombay at Goa in preparation for a trial. 
 
 “Our next step is to request the court to direct the authorities to handover key documents — daitom report, viscera analysis report, radiation report and the reports of the autopsies — that have still not been provided to us. We have run from pillar to post and made several applications to various authorities to receive these documents but they have all fallen on deaf ears,” reads the Dais family statement.
 
 The family stated that even as all the forensic test findings are yet to be out “the authorities (except for the judiciary) have been in a tearing hurry to close the case”.
 
 “Needless to say, we have been disappointed with the government’s apathy with the investigation but are hopeful that a thorough trial is conducted. We have now reposed our faith in the judiciary,” Mario stated.
 
 
