JALANDHAR: At the time when former Punjab Technical University vice chancellor Dr Rajneesh Arora has been accused in the Vigilance Bureau FIR of making some appointments in the University by bypassing the set procedures, most of these appointees – who have also been named in the FIR as accused - are reported to be kin of the RSS or the BJP leaders.

 While the RSS has refrained from commenting directly on the incident, the BJP and the ABVP have reacted strongly to “RSS ideologue” Arora’s arrest.
 
 According to sources, as the PTU was under the ‘BJP quota’ during the SAD-BJP rule, for appointment of the VC, the RSS and the BJP leaders could manage most of the appointments where discretion of the VC was possible and SAD did not have much say.
 
 Dr Arora, who himself remained an active RSS activist, had lived and worked among tribals in   for a few years. He was associated with Vanvasi Kalyan Ashram, a Sangh affiliate, at that time. Apart from Dr Arora, nine others have been named in the FIR.
 
 The VB has claimed that the rules were not followed while appointing Vishwadeep as Assistant Registrar (ad hoc). He is the son of RSS Prant Seh Karyavahak Muneeshvar. Dr R P Bhardwaj, who was appointed as director on contract basis and has been named in the FIR, is state head of the Itihaas Sankalan Samiti (history compilation committee), also associated with the Sangh. Dr Bhardwaj is the former principal of Doaba College, Jalandhar.
 
 Former BJP minister Trikshan Sud’s daughter Geetika Sud was appointed legal officer and has also been named in the FIR. “According to the facts, this appointment was made without her having the requisite experience certificate,” the VB has said.
 
 BJP Chandigarh unit spokesman Dharinder Tayal, whose father late Hit Abhilashi was a top BJP leader of Punjab, is also among the accused. The VB has claimed that he was allowed to charge higher fees in his institute and was extended financial benefit.
 
 Sources said Sumeer Sharma, assistant director, cultural activities and   Sharma, programmer, were young activists of the RSS and were working with its associated organizations. The Bureau has claimed that while Sumeer was appointed without following procedures, Ashish did not have the required experience for the post while applying.
 
 Marginder Singh Bedi, who was appointed assistant training and placement officer, is son of Dr H S Bedi, a renowned scholar and writer of Hindi literature. Dr Bedi has remained a frequent speaker on Indian culture and literature at different events of Sangh affiliates. PTU sources said Bedi, Geetika, Sumeer and Ashish were now working in the PTU after they were recruited for the second time after advertising their posts and conducting the recruitment process again according to norms.
 
 It is said that Delhi-based Parveen Kumar, whose firm NETiit was paid Rs 24.37 crore as consultancy fee, was an old classmate of Dr Arora at the IIT. Dr Nachhatar Singh, advisor (on deputation) was the only appointee who did not have any links with the RSS or the BJP.
 
 Arora remained RSS ideologue, his arrest under political, ideological conspiracy: BJP 
 
 Stating that Arora’s arrest smacked of political vendetta, Punjab BJP spokesperson Rakesh Shantidoot on Monday evening said Arora, who remained a RSS Vicharak (ideologue), helped the university gain credibility and recognition at international level, while earlier it was known as the den of corruption.
 
 “By starting new course on human values he started new chapter in technical education. He is being implicated under some high-level political and ideological conspiracy. Dr Arora never went into hiding and the VB could have summoned him but they created drama at the instructions of the state government to create fear in the university staff and then to use them against him,” he said.
 
 ABVP state secretary   also issued a statement criticizing Arora’s arrest and said the former VC had in fact waged a war against massive corruption in the University but now he was being punished for that.
 
 MoS and state BJP president Vijay Sampla had issued a statement in the beginning of June last year against discontinuation of the human value courses started during Arora’s tenure. He had asked Chief Minister   to stop “Congress-ization” of the education system. He even went on to allege that corrupt elements were being encouraged and batted for the RSS and the BJP volunteers working in educational institutions stating: “efforts are being done to harass the volunteers of the BJP and Sangh working at the educational institutions, which will not be tolerable in any condition”.
 
 Name of the RSS came up explicitly for the first time in an official order of the university when in a notice issued on May 26, 2017, the PTU registrar said “from the complaints received by the enquiry officer it has come out that in workshops on human values organized in different colleges, RSS propaganda was carried out”.
 
 
