BENGALURU: Unlike other electoral battlegrounds, Karnataka’s high-stakes race has literally brought the political czars to the ground. Both   and   will be the first party presidents of the two national parties to cover all 30 districts of the state for the assembly polls.

 
 Usually, the national chiefs of the   and the BJP have been known to drive poll strategies from their boardrooms, but in   they have turned into road-warriors, said a few political trackers. Rahul and Shah are leading from the front in one of the most unpredictable poll battles ever since campaigning intensified.
 
 Sources in the Congress said Rahul has created a record of sorts in the state’s political circuit by becoming the first AICC president to have travelled over 3,500km while touring 30 districts. He is said to have visited around two dozen temples and mutts in the state and even participated in a roadshow on the 400-km stretch between Ballari and Kalaburagi in severe heat.
 
 
  
  
 
 During the campaign in Karnataka, Rahul has broken several stereotypes associated with the Congress high command. From allowing chief minister Siddaramaiah to occupy the centrestage to visiting temples and mutts and hugging pourakarmikas, Rahul has played his cards well to create an impression that he is ‘down to earth’. He tried to connect with the common man by buying slices of cucumber from a roadside vendor, stopping his convoy to bless a little kid, standing in the queue at the Metro ticket counter and obliging requests from fellow passengers for selfies and beating fatigue with chai from makeshift shops.
 
 He has also committed gaffes with regard to Basavanna’s quotes and pronouncing Visvesvaraya’s name, but refused to be saddled by them.
 
  
  
 
 Agriculture minister Krishna Byre Gowda said: “Unlike BJP leaders, Rahul is not claiming to speak for the people, but is speaking with the people and becoming their voice. The feedback from North Karnataka region is that he reminds them of Indira Gandhi, who fought for the cause of the poor.”
 
 Shah too has been aggressively touring the state. He will complete touring the whole state when he ends his public rally at KGF in Kolar district on Monday evening. “We have had our party chiefs criss-crossing the state with yatras during polls, but Shah is the first party national president to visit all districts and directly interact with the grassroots cadre. He is one leader who chose to listen to different citizen groups — students, businessmen and working professionals — in the districts,” said BJP state spokesperson A H Anand.
 
  
  
 
 Shah has been extremely vociferous in upping the spirits of the party workers who make the difference on ground. He chose to operate on his own rather than go by the biased feedback provided by the state leaders while taking several decisions, including ticket distribution.
 
 Of course, Shah’s campaign trail has not been bereft of lapses either. These include sitting cross-legged in front of Adichunchanagiri Mutt seer Sri Nirmalanandanatha Swamiji, the slip up in calling Yeddyurappa government the ‘ most corrupt’, allowing to fall spotlight on mining baron G Janardhan Reddy and failing to pacify the Dalits.
 
 However, Shah has made it clear to the party leaders that he and Modi will call the shots and not anyone else. In fact, in Koppal and other places he boosted the confidence of party workers by asking them to call him directly if they faced issues during electioneering. In fact, during an interaction with media, Shah acknowledged: “This campaign trail is teaching us a lot about how the people of Karnataka think and what they want.”
 
