Jaipur: The   crisis for the residents staying in high-rises has risen to a crescendo over the past few weeks during summer. 

 As public health and engineering department (PHED) is not able to provide water connections to high-rise buildings above 15 metres in absence of infrastructure, residents living even in posh localities in multi-crores apartments have to remain dependent on tankers. 
 
 In Rantnamani Apartment (G+9) in Mansarovar, residents are dependent on the water pressure for filling up their tanks. However, due to the absence pressure, many a times, tanks are not filled and residents have to struggle to cater their needs. With this, residents have to shell out extra money for water tankers.
 
 Naveen Singh, retired from accountant services, said, “If the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) gives permission to construct a building, it should ensure the developer would provide facility of water to the residents. Many a times, we are forced to store water in buckets to be used in lavatories and kitchen during the day,” he added.
 
 An official source too believed that PHED does not have infrastructure to provide water to high-rises. “The department has laid three-inch wide pipelines in majority of the colonies to supply water. To supply water in high-rise buildings, pipelines which are five times the width of the present size are required. The department cannot supply water to high rise in near future as there is no sufficient funds,” he said.
 
 In the absence of a proper government policy to provide water connection to these complexes, it is leading to a grave situation. Majority of these group housing schemes are coming up in the city outskirts area such as Jagatpura, Ajmer Road, Kalwar Road, Sirsi Road, Sikar Road, etc. 
 
 Last year, the (PHED) decided to provide new domestic water connections to multi-storeyed buildings up to the height of 15 metre. To avoid conflict, the PHED issued revised orders mentioning water will be provided up to 15 metre height irrespective of the number of storeys constructed in the building. 
 
 Though the decision to provide water connection to G+2 buildings was finalised, work to provide water connections to high-rises (more than G+2) is moving at snail’s pace. Moreover, department is not providing the water connections in the area, which are far or not feasible. 
 
 “We are ready to pay for the connections. But the department is not willing to take our application and provide connections,” said Vivek Sharma a local developer at Chitrakoot. 
 
 
