VELLORE: Not a single answer script of bio-technology, bio-chemistry, M.Com (CA) and several other streams have reached the evaluation centres approved by the Syndicate from  , according to the members of the   Government College Teachers’ Association ( ).

 Secretary of the   zone of the association D  , said that hundreds of   of several undergraduate and postgraduate courses of non-autonomous colleges affiliated to the TU, did not reach the seven approved evaluation centres.
 
 These answer scripts were excluding around a lakh answer scripts of subjects like Tamil, English, Mathematics and History of UG and PG courses that were missing from the university, he charged. “We demanded the state government to order a detailed inquiry into the missing answer scripts and mismanagement of the university. We have submitted a petition in this regard to the education secretary,” said  , secretary of Zone III of AUT.
 
 Refuting the charges, vice-chancellor of the university  , said that they have submitted a report to the education secretary on Thursday last. The report consists details of the total number of answer scripts received and dispatched to the evaluation centres by the university.
 
 Controller of Examination B Senthil Kumar said that the university had received around 9.5 lakh answer scripts, including practicals, from the non-autonomous colleges. 
 
 Of them, answer scripts of courses such as B.Sc Nutrition and Diet, micro-biology, bio-chemistry, Urdu, Hindi and Arab languages have been dispatched to the evaluation centre inside the university premises. “Since these courses have less number of students (between 4000 and 6000), the answer scripts are evaluated in the centre here,” he said.
 
 Nonetheless, the TNGCTA members said that there is no approved evaluation centre within the university campus. “If it was approved by the syndicate, it should be duly communicated to all the affiliated colleges. But there is no such communication till date,” said Vijayan. 
 
 Registrar of the university V Peruvazhuthi, in a recent meeting, admitted that they did not communicate to the affiliated colleges regarding the new evaluation centre, said another member of the association, adding, “It shows that the officials of the university are indulging in malpractice. Such unauthorised centres will also raise question over the quality of evaluation.” The registrar was not available for comment. 
 
 
