NEW DELHI: Even as   gears up for state elections and even as the   government teeters due to factional infighting, all eyes are on today's expected   ( ) verdict on the decades-old festering dispute over the waters of the   between the two states.

 
  The Supreme Court (SC) is expected to deliver its verdict today on petitions filed by Karnataka and Tamil Nadu against the final order of the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal (CWDT). 
 
 Both states are unhappy with the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal's (CWDT) February 5, 2007 verdict. After a marathon hearing on September 20, 2017, a three-judge bench of the SC reserved its verdict on the appeals filed by Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala against the 2007 award of the CWDT.
 
 Here is the dispute explained in 10 points: 
 
 
 
 The Cauvery river originates in Karnataka's Kodagu district, flows into Tamil Nadu, reaches the Bay of Bengal at Poompuhar. Parts of three Indian states - Tamil Nadu, Kerala, and Karnataka - and the Union Territory of Pondicherry lie in the Cauvery basin.
 
 
 
 The legal dispute over the waters of the Cauvery has a long history, and has its origins in agreements signed in 1892 and 1924 between the erstwhile princely state of Mysore and the Madras Presidency. The Centre constituted the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal (CWDT) in 1990 to resolve the dispute following a Supreme Court order. The tribunal gave Tamil Nadu 205 tmcft (thousand million cubic feet) in an interim order in 1991.
 
 
 In 2007, the tribunal declared its final award, in which it said Tamil Nadu should receive 419 tmcft of water, more than double of the interim order. Karnataka wasn't pleased. The award required Karnataka to release 192 tmcft of water to Tamil Nadu in ten monthly instalments every year. The Centre made the notification of the award public only in 2013, after the Supreme Court ordered it do so.
 
 
 
 Before the 2007 order, Tamil Nadu had asked for 562 tmcft - roughly three-fourths of the water available in the Cauvery basin - and Karnataka had asked for 465 tmcft - around two-thirds of the available water.
 
 
 The Tamil Nadu government sought the SC's intervention, saying that there was a deficit of 50.0052 tmcft of water released from Karnataka's reservoirs, with respect to the minimum limit prescribed by the CDWT. Tamil Nadu claimed the tribunal's award was erroneous as the allocation of water was based on cultivation of just one crop. It contended that two crops are cultivated in the state. The state said its farmers needed more water to begin cultivating samba - a kind of rice grown in the state. The Karnataka government responded by saying it wouldn't be able to release any more Cauvery water, as low rainfall during the monsoon had left its reservoirs half-empty.
 
 
 
 On September 5, the SC ordered Karnataka to release 15,000 cusecs of Cauvery water to Tamil Nadu every day for 10 days. A day later, Karnataka's Mandya, Mysuru and Hassan districts witnessed intense and often violent protests. Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah said his government would have to release the water, but with "a heavy heart". He added the state would file a petition in the SC seeking modification of the order.
 
 On September 20, the SC reserved its verdict on the appeals filed by Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala against the 2007 award of the CWDT, after a marathon hearing 
 
 
 
 On January 9 this year, the SC indicated it would deliver within a month its verdict on the decades-old  , saying enough confusion has been created on it for over two decades. The top court also said that no forum could touch the matter relating to the Cauvery basin, until it gave its verdict.
 
 
 
 The court's remark came during the hearing of a plea filed in 2016 after the violence in Mandya, by a citizens' group, Bangalore Political Action Committee, led by philanthropist Kiran Mazumdar Shaw, seeking its intervention for supply of drinking water to residents of Bengaluru and surrounding districts. They told the court that citizens of Bengaluru need adequate drinking water and their right to life needed to be protected by the top court. The plea said, "the reservoir levels in the major reservoirs of the Cauvery basin in Karnataka, which have a huge shortfall of inflows, and thereby the drastic decrease in the storage capacities of the respective reservoirs." If further releases are made to Tamil Nadu, there would not be enough water available in these reservoirs for supply to the citizens of Bengaluru and other towns, the plea added.
 
 
 
 Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami's appeal to immediately release 7 tmcft of Cauvery water was turned down by Karnataka CM Siddaramaiah.
 
 "After reserving the minimum needs of drinking water supply and perennial crops, Karnataka can release at least 15 tmcft of water that is crucial for the standing crops in the Cauvery delta," said Palaniswami in a letter to Karnataka, explaining why the state needed water.
 
 Karnataka said, "no". 
 
 "How can we release water when storage levels in our reservoirs in the Cauvery river basin are low? There is no question of releasing water now," chief minister Siddaramaiah told reporters in New Delhi. He also referred to the impending SC verdict on the Cauvery water sharing row and stated that the state government will prefer to wait for the verdict.
 
 
 
 
 Mandya district police recently launched a "mass contact programme" with farmers and Kannada groups, urging them not to take the law in their hands over the  . Police held talks with farmers and sought the help of their leaders to ensure law and order is maintained.
 
 "There is an acute drinking water problem in the city of Bengaluru and certain other districts of South Karnataka. The annual requirement of Bengaluru city alone is more than 19 TMC of water to be supplied to the citizens by the authorities of the State of Karnataka. The annual drinking water requirements of the Cauvery basin districts including the Bengaluru is roughly about 26 TMC (approximately)," it said.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
