Gurgaon is truly a city that never sleeps. Be it the watering holes of  , MG Road, and Sector 29, or the countless BPOs and MNCs functioning in the city, Gurugrammers burn the late night oil at work every single day. Every night, after their shifts end, these late-night workers are faced with a challenge: of getting home in a city with non-existent public  . Since both the Delhi Metro and Rapid Metro stop services before midnight, these Gurugrammers (and those travelling to Delhi) are left with no option but to take shared   plying from   and  . 

  
  
 
 Most of these cabs are driven by cabbies returning to their homes and looking to make some extra money by dropping someone off along the route, which is why they charge nominal amounts. However, at times, these are gangs posing as cabbies, preying on stranded commuters, offering them lifts and robbing them off their belongings. While this trend is not new to Gurgaon, the frequency of such   has seen an increase in the last few months. Despite these dangers, commuters say that more often than not, they have no choice but to opt for these shared cabs or even hitchhike as Gurgaon does not give them any other pocket-friendly mode of transport at night.
 Most of these attacks and robberies take place at two locations – on the Delhi-Gurgaon highway near Cyber Hub and near IFFCO Chowk. The robbers chiefly target bartenders or staff working at the watering holes in Cyber Hub and Sector 29 market, as well as employees from private companies in   whose shifts get over late at night. The victims are mostly those who are looking for a cheap ride home late at night. Rajesh*, who was robbed at gunpoint a couple of years ago close to Udyog Vihar, says, “The menace has only increased in the last few years. I had a bad experience in late 2016 when I lost `20,000 and my phone. Ever since , I try and avoid these shared cabs to Delhi. And if I’m not left with any option, I travel with colleagues. At least jab do-teen log hote hain toh safety zyada rehti hai.”
 
  
  Gurgaon commuters fall prey to robbers due to lack of affordable late night transport options
 
 Commuters say that the absence of public transport and non-availability of app-based cabs late at night are the chief reasons why they go for these dangerous modes of transport. Ashish Kumar, who works as a bartender in Cyber Hub, says, “I used to ride a bike from my residence in Delhi but that is unsafe as trucks and heavy vehicles ply on the highway. Many companies provide their employees with cabs but we don’t have that option. Koi bus toh hai nahi highway se, so these private cabs are the only option. Yeh bhi na lein toh raat ke ek baje ghar kaise jayenge?” Prateek, who works in Udyog Vihar, tells us, “At times at night, the waiting time for app-based cabs is 20-25 minutes. Nobody wants to wait that long at 1am. You simply want to get home. Taking these cabs is a risk, but so many people take it every night.”
 Some say that they can’t afford to take app-based cabs every night as that is an expensive option. Salman, who works near MG Road, says, “I live in south Delhi and if I take an Ola or Uber every night, I would have to shell out over `250-300 every day. I can’t afford that. These shared cabs charge `80-100 only, and mostly they are safe. Thankfully, I have never faced any problem so far.”
 
  
  
 The Gurgaon Police say they have taken note of the dangerous trend and are actively working to apprehend gangs that operate as cabbies on the highway or near IFFCO Chowk. Ravinder Kumar, Gurgaon Police’s PRO, says, “We have about a hundred cases of people being robbed or killed after hitchhiking or taking rides in these illegal cabs. The department has been actively working to bust gangs that rob people after offering them lifts or posing as cabbies.” In 2018 alone, three such gangs – involved in over 60 cases of robbery – have been busted by the Delhi and Gurgaon Police.
 (*Some names have been changed)
 
