The next time you are heading out for a party, don’t be surprised if you are asked to leave your   at the entrance of the resto-lounge or pub you are visiting. This is thanks to a recent bizarre incident in a Mumbai nightclub that has left restaurateurs alarmed. Around 250 people had to be quickly evacuated from  , a nightclub in Mumbai’s  , last Saturday after someone unleashed pepper spray inside the venue. 

  
  Tamasha, a nightclub in Mumbai, had to be evacuated after someone unleashed pepper spray inside the venue. The incident has alarmed Delhi restaurateurs, many of whom have now disallowed pepper sprays in their venues
 
 
 The culprit is yet to be caught and the motive behind the act is still unclear. The incident has prompted Priyank Sukhija, the owner of the restaurant, to not allow anyone to carry pepper spray inside any of his nightclubs in Mumbai. So far, the policy has been implemented only in Mumbai, since in Delhi, such a policy has to be a more thought-out decision, says the restaurateur. 
 However, while some restaurateurs are wondering if disallowing pepper sprays will send out a wrong message, given the capital’s concern about women’s safety, some venues in Delhi have already started asking guests to leave their pepper spray cans at the entrance. They tell us that incidents like this can lead to stampedes and injuries, and is something that they are not willing to risk.
 Priyank, who also owns several venues in Delhi, says, “It was important to let others in the industry know about this case as this can happen anywhere. We should be prepared to tackle such a situation. It is still unclear why someone would do something as weird as that. It might come across as plain mischief by someone who did not want to pay the bill, since after the incident, many customers left the place and there was no time to check if they had paid or not. Or it could be that the culprit wanted to harm some customer. Thankfully, everything was under control, but we have learnt our lesson. As a policy, we have decided to disallow pepper spray in all our venues in Mumbai and we would recommend other restaurants and establishments to also adopt the same practice, especially the crowded venues.” 
 About why it was implemented only in Mumbai, Priyank says, “We haven’t heard of such a case in Delhi recently. If needed, we will think about implementing it in Delhi.”
 
  
  
 
 
 
 A few restaurateurs in Delhi have already implemented a check on pepper sprays after the Mumbai incident – they request the customer to leave the bottle at the entrance, and it can be collected when they leave. However, there are others who are wondering whether not allowing pepper sprays in Delhi nightclubs would send out a wrong message to “different groups.” 
 “With women’s safety being a big issue in the city and self-defence classes distributing pepper sprays to women, we don’t want to be seen as discouraging women from carrying it. Women’s safety is important to us, and we keep taking different measures for that. However, if we started keeping a check on pepper spray (even if it is for the safety of our customers), some people would use it as an opportunity to bash us on social media, and all our other measures to ensure women’s safety would be forgotten,” says a restaurateur. 
 
  
  
 Restaurateur Rahul Singh, who is also the president of   (NRAI), adds that the decision of banning pepper sprays will depend on the nature of the outlet. “I think, to each his own. I don’t think we need to ban pepper spray in any of my outlets, incidents like this is a risk that we have to take.”
 Restaurateur Varun Puri, who has instructed his staff to check for pepper sprays at the entrance and request customers to leave them there, says that the incident was too shocking to be ignored. “People get ideas after hearing such things and we can’t take a risk. We should learn from it, and before more such incidents take place, it is better that we take a precautionary measure. We will keep a check on pepper spray only at the outlets that are for dining and dancing, as those are the venues that are dimly lit and crowded,” says Varun.
 
  
  
 
 
 After some resto-lounges implemented a pepper spray check, they made a surprising discovery – none of their female customers carry pepper sprays. “When we implemented the check on pepper spray after the Mumbai incident, we thought that many of our female guests would be carrying pepper sprays, but so far, we haven’t had any customer who was carrying a pepper spray, not even on weekends at popular locations in central and west Delhi,” says restaurateur Umang Tewari.
  
  Picture for representational purposes 
 
 
 
 While the Mumbai incident does alarm partygoers in Delhi, many women feel that not allowing pepper spray inside the nightclub might not be a good idea. “A group of girls going out to party or a single woman who is out to grab a drink should definitely be allowed to carry pepper sprays inside nightclubs. Sometimes, these places are so crowded that even if something happens, you can’t wait for any help from the staff. We understand that it can harm other customers, but it can help women prevent an untoward incident,” says Deepansha Dhingra, an actress based in Rohini. Astha Singh, a marketing executive in a fashion firm, says that disallowing pepper sprays in crowded nightclubs in Delhi can be risky. “There have been cases where women are followed after leaving a nightclub. What if the girl forgets to collect the pepper spray while leaving?” she asks. 
 
