SURAT: One more attempt to clean river Tapi will be made on a massive scale from March 25. Large number of non-governmental organizations (NGOs)along with corporate houses and ruling   workers would carry out ‘Tapi Shuddhikaran’ campaign and attempt to remove thousands of kilogram of water hyacinth and hydrilla covering it. 

 The issue of vegetation creating problems for supply of water which is smelly to residents has been a regular feature since last 15 days. Lakhs of residents of four major areas of the city namely Katargam, Varachha, Rander, Pal and   have suffered due to this. 
 
 Actually every year during summer months issue of smelly water and vegetation on the riverbed affecting water quality comes to fore. However, with sufficient water in Ukai dam and release of 5,000 cusecs of water couple of times washed away the vegetation, improving the water quality.
 
 “However, this year with not much water available in Ukai dam, we are facing more difficulties,” a SMC official said. “Tapi Shuddhikarn plan of Rs 794 crore would be implemented as soon as final sanctions are obtained,” he added. 
 
 “We know local body is doing its work. However, we can’t sit idle. We have decided to start this campaign and have asked all the NGO’s who want to participate in cleaning of Tapi to register latest by March 21. We would start the work physically with the help of our workers and mandals from Kharva samaj, Machhi samaj and others,” Surat city BJP chief Nitin Bhajiyawala said. 
 
 He also appealed to people to come and join or at least refrain from throwing waste in Tapi. “I have been regularly sitting at the weir with a group of workers and making plans about cleaning the vegetation in Tapi. Lot of times we have seen people throwing waste in the riverbed despite requesting them not to do so, which is a serious issue,” he added.
 
 Bhajiyawala said, “We have asked corporates of   who take water from the river to join and take responsibility of keeping certain sections of Tapi clean. It is their responsibility too.” 
 
 According to sources within the party, more than 25,000 people, including that from NGOs, would join the campaign and carry out the assigned work for  . 
 
 
