CHANDIGARH: Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarathi Parishad ( ), Panjab University, on Monday accused the Panjab University Campus Student Council ( ) of embezzlement of the student council's funds, and demanded that the funds should be ceased. 

 The ABVP members further alleged that the council did not organise student-centric activities for Jhankar (the varsity's annual fest) and now despite having sponsorship in place would get money in the name of singers, who performed at the festival.
 
 "The council fund for Jhankar was meant to be spent on the student activities. However, the council did not conduct any student-centric activities, and now they will get Rs 11 lakh for the festfrom the council funds," said member of central working committee ( ) of ABVP Harmanjot Singh Gill.
 
 "Jhankar is a student festival and is meant to engage students by organising different activities. This council has broken that tradition. There were no activities for the students - only Jhankar nights. The PUCSC will now take grants from the council fund on the pretext of paying fees to the singers, for which the council already had sponsorship," said Harmanjot.
 
 Refuting the comments, president of PUCSC Jashan   said, "These are baseless allegations. We had organised activities for students at the student centre and law auditorium. Let ABVP get an investigating agency on board to check if we used the funds correctly or not. I will ask the   office to cooperate with them. Moreover, we could not get any sponsorship for the star night to cover our expenses for the singers. Let ABVP get this investigated and I am certain we will come out clean since we have not done anything wrong."
 
 The ABVP also alleged that this year only two buses went to   trip. However, minimum of 10 buses used to go every year. "The council charged Rs 850 per student for the trip and then they also took around Rs 2 lakh from the council fund," added Gill.
 
 On this Kamboj said, "We had taken only Rs 98,000 from the fund and we have a record of that."
 
 When the TOI asked PUCSC secretary Vani Sood, he said, "I have not signed any document with regard to advance taken for any fest or a trip. I was not a part of the purchase committee. Moreover, I have not even verified any bill other than those of 'Agaaz' in which I was actively involved. For me student welfare is actually working for the students, solving their issues and helping them out."
 
 
