JAIPUR: Riding hard on its ‘historic win’ for the past four years, the state BJP on Thursday fell on its face with the Congress sweeping the bypolls on two Lok Sabha and one assembly seat.

 Chief minister   had gone to great lengths, touring the Lok Sabha seats of Ajmer and Alwar frequently since December. She even had her MP son Dushyant Singh and his wife Niharika campaigning extensively in Ajmer. Until now, Raje enjoyed a free hand with the central leadership not questioning her in anything, including the selection of candidates for these three seats, which is now in question. She is bound to lose that freedom and will have to tread cautiously.
 
 “The result is due to the party high command shielding the corrupt government in the state. This is only the beginning of the end of BJP in the state,’’ said rebel BJP MLA  .
 
 Much was at stake for the BJP this bypoll, mainly because it was being held so close to the forthcoming assembly and the ruling party was keen to spread around the word that everything is at its best in the party. The state leadership too was out on the streets to imprint its popularity and displaying strength. All of it was rejected by not just by the voters but also the party workers and supporters.
 
 In several ways, many BJP leaders of the state saw the bypolls as an election that was contested not by the party as a whole but the elected representatives. The elected representatives – MLAs mainly, followed by cabinet ministers – were burdened with the pressure of winning the seats.
 
 ``The mandate to them was, ensure a win or forget your ticket in the forthcoming polls. This was one reason that all MLAs and ministers were in the field but with a weak connect with the workers, who are upset with the functioning of the government, they could not even manage to save the seats,’’ admitted a senior party leader. With the hard-working grassroot members angered and distant, the party also failed to get the much needed supporters from RSS volunteers. For this, state BJP president Ashok Parnami is being blamed by the party men.
 
 According to another senior leader, who was camping in Alwar for the past fortnight, the bypolls proved to be a vent for the strong undercurrent against the ruling party among its traditional voters Brahmins, Rajputs and Vaishya.
 
 “There were people from the Brahmin community who raised questions about Raje’s critic Ghanshyam Tiwari, who was side-lined. Things like these are hard to answer,’’ said the senior member.
 
 
