There’s been a lot of talk about   Ravichandran’s next film,  , in industry circles, but the actor himself has been quiet. From the return of Raghavendra Rajkumar to acting, to Sarita being paired with him and Priyanka Thimmesh bagging the female lead, this film, it would seem, has a lot on offer. For Mano, as the actor is popularly called, there is a lot riding on this Chandrakala-directorial, considering that his first two films didn’t give him the breakthrough he was hoping for in Kannada cinema. “Even though   was critically-acclaimed,   turned out to be quite a disaster. As it turns out, people watched the Dhanush-starrer original, but not my film, which has now completely put me off the idea of working on a remake,” he says.
Mano, who is literally limping back to normalcy after recovering from a nasty ligament injury that kept him out of action for more than a month, adds, “In fact, when I got the offer to do the VIP remake, I wasn’t sure about doing it, but my dad (V Ravichandran), encouraged me and looking back, I think it was a learning experience for me. I have no regrets about it, as I got to work with director Nanda Kishore and figure out my strengths and weaknesses.” 
 Among the criticism he faced for Bruhaspati, one that Mano has taken to heart is that his Kannada needs improvement. “From comments that my language skills are bad and that my diction is worse, I heard a lot. I would agree to a certain extent, as I dubbed twice for the film, unhappy at my first attempt. I have now begun taking Kannada diction classes and am reading vernacular newspapers everyday to better my language skills,” he says.
 Chillum is a film that will see Mano take on a character with  . “As the protagonist of the film, I play a  , which requires quite a bit of physical transformation as well. For starters, I have to bulk up, grow out my hair and beard and maybe even experiment with coloured lenses to get the look right. I start shooting in June, by which time I hope to be in character. I have just started working out, since I was injured, and have upped my food intake,” explains Mano. 
 Excited about sharing screen space with veterans like Raghavendra Rajkumar and Sarita, Mano tells us that the team is looking at getting Nana Patekar onboard as well. “The tone of Chillum is a lot like Ugramm and Mufti, so I was hell-bent about having Naveen Kumar, the cinematographer of Mufti, to work on our film as well. The idea is to have the best technical crew and a great cast onboard, which, put together should work well for Chillum. I have positive vibes about this film,” he signs off.
 
 
