NEW DELHI: The upcoming   near   Phase I could possibly help manage the congestion there, but some work remains for its construction to be finished. However, the flyover’s opening remains uncertain because the   now claims that the traffic police does not want it to be opened until all the work related to the third phase of the   elevated roadway project is completed. The   officials consequently aren’t even venturing a guess on a new deadline for its inauguration.

 The work that remains on the 
  may take up to two years, though the flyover itself has just 5% work remaining for completion. In the meanwhile, commuters face daily traffic jams and are forced to take a long detour. When TOI visited the spot, it found that the volume of traffic on the Noida Link Road near Mayur Vihar Phase I had increased and the on-going construction work was the cause of huge jams in peak hours.
 
  
  
 “It is evident that the PWD will have to close the flyover again when they are laying the joints for the loops for the elevated road,” explained a traffic police officer. “It will be difficult to manage traffic with parallel construction work continuing.” A PWD official revealed that loops had to be constructed going towards Mayur Vihar Phase I,  , Ashram,   and Noida. Only when all these are accomplished will police allow the use of the flyover by the public. 
 
 Completion of “all the works”, as the official put it, doesn’t look imminent. For one, land acquisition of a crucial portion has been held up by glitches. Given the technical nature of such problems, officials weren’t sure of when the flyover will start functioning.
 
 One of them officials elaborated, “Delhi government is in talks with the villagers to acquire the land. Once we get our hands on the land, we will start work. There is no fixed deadline as of now because everything depends on when we get the land.” PWD said that 55% work of the Phase III was done. The remaining work included construction and connection of the loops and the erection of a bridge, for which PWD has put in eight of the 12 foundations required, the rest being stymied by land acquisition problems.
 
 The 
  , which will connect east and south Delhi, was supposed to have been opened to the by October 2017. People are impatient for its completion because it will bring down the drive time between Mayur Vihar and   in south Delhi to 15-20 minutes from the current 75 minutes or so.
 
 The 4-km Phase I stretch connecting Sarai Kale Khan and Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium has been operational since 2010. Phase II, which is designed to extend Phase I by 2km, too has a new deadline of June 2018, three years from the original completion schedule.
 
 
