CHENNAI: More than one lakh Tamil books, collected from publishers and book lovers, are ready to be shipped to Sri Lanka to replenish resources at the   Public  , which lost its books and manuscripts in a fire nearly four decades ago. 

 A state-wide drive was launched after chief minister   inaugurated an initiative to collect one lakh Tamil books to be donated to the Jaffna Public Library in October last year. Since then,   has approached both publishers and readers across districts and collected books. The books are now packed in cartons and are stacked at the Devaneya Pavanar District Central Library on Anna Salai, waiting to be sent to Sri Lanka.
 
 “We have collected more than one lakh books. The books are digitally catalogued, packed and ready to be sent. We are waiting for a response from the library in Jaffna to send the books,” said V C Rameswaramurugan, director (incharge), Directorate of Public Libraries.
 
 The  , which had more than 95,000 books including rare collections and palm-leaf manuscripts, was destroyed when a mob set fire to it in 1981. The library was subsequently rebuilt and opened in 2003.
 
 V Thanikachalam, district library officer, Chennai, said the city alone collected nearly 27,167 books, most of them from publishers who participated in the 41st Chennai Book Fair in January, and from other libraries in the city. All district library officers were instructed by the Directorate of Public Libraries to conduct the drive across all districts. “At the book fair, we formed a team of 10 people and visited all the stalls to personally meet the publishers and inform them about the drive to collect books for  ,” he said. “We also informed other public libraries in the city to inform their readers and collect books through them”
 
 The district library officer said that while a majority of the books collected were new, readers also donated used books. The collection of Tamil books varies from Tolkappiam to biographies of famous personalities and other classics. 
 
 
