NAWANSHAHR: A 32-year-old and her mother, hailing from Chhokraan village near Nawanshahr, were stabbed to death by her husband in Brampton, Canada on Friday night. 

 Deceased  , was settled in Canada since 2006 had married Dalvinder Singh, 29, around two years back. Her father Kuldeep Singh, who is sarpanch of Chhokraan village, and mother   had also gone there on tourist visa around 15 months back and were staying with them.
 
 “Dalwinder spoke to us around noon and we discussed celebrating the first Lohri of their eight-month-old son. While they said that they would celebrate after coming to India, my sister sent me Rs 15,000 to distribute among girls who would come home for Lohri. Everything appeared normal, and he (Dalvinder) went to work. However, later in the day, our father called up to say that Dalvinder had killed my sister and mother by stabbing them,” said Baljit’s brother   Singh.
 
 He said that Dalvinder had gone there after spending Rs 15 lakh and was staying there illegally. “However, since he had married my sister it would have helped him settle down there legally. For us, theirs was a happy family as they had their own house and our parents also did not tell us about any bitterness between the couple. Our parents went there on a tourist visa to help them bring up their little child, as my sister was also working in a factory,” he said.
 
 “Around 10pm on Friday night, my sister called up Dalvinder’s boss to tell him that he was fighting with her and his boss advised her to stay calm. Around half-an-hour later, Dalvinder himself called up his boss to say that he had killed his wife and mother-in-law and asked him to inform the police. He also informed another person from the village. It was his boss who informed my father about the killing,” said Harvinder.
 
 “When my father reached the house, it had already been sealed by the police and the child was handed over to a child care centre,” he added.
 
 Dalvinder hailed from Samraiv village in Jalandhar district. His mother lives there alone as his father had already died.
 
