CHENNAI: When   chopped off her tresses and couriered them to Adyar   Institute, little did she know they would be in sealed boxes till funds could be arranged to pay the wigmaker. 

 With each wig costing a minimum of 4,000 to weave and the awareness to donate hair to cancer patients increasing, the balance is slowly tipping. 
 
 While chopping off hair for a cause is easy, making sure a patient in need receives the wigs isn't. Often, patients who have lost their hair due to chemotherapy or radiation therapy need to wait, cover their head with caps or cloth, or use pre-owned wigs.
 
 The demand for wigs is huge. Dr V  , assistant professor and head of the department of psycho-oncology at Adyar Cancer Institute said that a minimum of five wigs were required in a day but that they weren't able to help everyone because of the shortage. 
 
 "Therefore we are able give wigs to only those patients who are suffering from serious issues such as depression, social isolation and aren't able to face the society and as a result, refusing treatment," he said.
 
 The institute also requests patients to return the wigs once their hair grows back in about six months, but even then, the number of wigs is insufficient, he said.
 
 "We get a lot of hair, but that alone won't help as we can't hand out loose hair to patients. People must understand that first. We need money to convert hair into wigs. 
 
 The wigmaker is only asking us to cover the labour cost as it takes seven days to make one wig and for that, 4,000 is the minimum," he adds. 
 
 But doctors and administrators at the institute are not in favour of asking people to donate money directly as it may discourage them and derail the initiative. Instead, the doctor requests those willing to donate, especially college students in the city who are able to mobilise funds, to donate readymade wigs. Recently, Dr Surendran said, hair salon franchise   and students of Women's   collaborated to donate the institute around 200 wigs.
 
 Premi Mathew, who started Hair For Hope which made hair donation popular in southern India, has a tie-up with the cancer institute and says the initiative receives two to three ponytails a day and making a wig requires at least five such ponytails. 
 
 So far, hair received has not gone to waste as contributors have adhered to guidelines mentioned on their website. 
 
 But she agreed that finding sponsors to pay wig makers remained a huge challenge. "I can easily collect hair. In fact, I met a lot of school principals who are planning to host donation drives. But the dream is to encourage students to convert the donated hair into wigs by giving it directly to wig makers and then donate the wig to chemo patients," she added.
 
