NEW DELHI: The government will kick off the largest-ever exercise to rank cities on cleanliness parameters on Thursday, covering more than 40 crore people from 4,041 cities, PM   announced on Sunday. 

 "Cleanliness Survey 2018, the largest in the world, will be conducted from January 4 to March 10, 2018 to evaluate achievements in cleanliness level of our urban areas. This survey will cover a population of more than 40 crore in more than four thousand cities," the PM said in his monthly radio address ' '. In 2017, 434 cities were ranked.
 
  While toilet construction in urban areas seems to be progressing well, solid waste management remains a big worry for the government.   is one subject the PM has mentioned in almost all his '  ki Baat' programmes since the Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM) was launched. According to government data, more than 75% households in rural India have got toilets compared to only 43.27% in 2014 when the mission was kicked off by the PM. 
 
 While in rural areas, construction and use of household toilets address most sanitation concerns, city authorities have a different challenge. Besides ensuring construction and use of public toilets, the biggest worry in urban areas is managing solid waste.
 
 Housing and urban affairs ministry data show that while solid waste is picked up from the doorstep in nearly 68% municipal wards, only 30% of the waste generated in urban areas is being treated. "So, you have 70% of untreated solid waste either getting dumped at landfill sites or at dump yards. Cities won't get clean look unless we build enough public toilets and treat more than 80% of the collected waste," said a government official, who was associated with the Swachhta mission.
 
 Asking people, particularly the younger generation, to participate in the Swachhta survey,   said it will also be observed whether cities had created systems where cleanliness became public habit, or the city's habit for that matter. "It is not for the government alone to maintain cleanliness. Every citizen and people's organisations have a big responsibility... And take the full onus to ensure that your city should not lag behind and your street or mohalla should not look to be wanting," the PM said.
 
 
