GURUGRAM: Every day, thousands of car travel between the city and the expressway, along various feeder and service roads. And a large percentage of them tries to dodge past those obediently following traffic rules by taking wrong lanes wherever they can, even if it is against the flow of high-speed traffic.   does not appear to be a concern. 

 
 
 
 The left-turn towards Signature Tower on the Delhi-Gurugram Expressway is a busy stretch throughout the day. But the situation turns grim when cars start moving against the traffic flow. 
 
 This happens when vehicles coming from the Delhi side of the expressway want to take a U-turn to return to Delhi. The actual route to is take a left turn towards  , drive straight on the sector road towards  , take the U-turn near Central Avenue Road and drive till the end of the road and then take a right for the expressway. This is a 2km stretch. To avoid this, the commuters turn left from the Delhi-Gurugram expressway, take a right turn and drive on the   to reach the expressway. 
  
  
 Naina Arora, who works at Signature Tower, said, “Every single day, vehicles coming from the Delhi side take a wrong turn near Signature Towers to return Delhi. They end up causing a hurdle for the vehicles coming from the Huda City Centre side. This saves them a few kilometres but what these errant drivers don’t realise is that this short-cut may result in a major accident some day.”
 
 
 
 
 If one goes by the traffic rule, it is an 800m drive from Sector 29 market to the Signature Tower underpass. But for drivers who want to save time at any cost, a wrong-lane drive makes helps reach the destination faster with a few anxious moments in between that they hardly pay heed to. 
 
 Akash Mishra, a Sector 29 resident, said, “What most people do is drive on the wrong side of the road, which is officially a one-way road, for 200m to reach the underpass. By doing so they often come face-to-face with cars coming from the Signature Tower underpass. Just another 600m extra drive would have made life so much easier but who will explain this to them?” 
 
 
