NAGPUR: Union surface transport and water resources minister   said the controversies that have dogged the state’s irrigation sector has left the officials scared. The minister said that a common code for irrigation works throughout the country can help in bringing clarity and speed up the works. 

 “There are certain grey areas in the process of evaluating cost of tenders, on account of which officers are preferring to play safe these days. This has also delayed the work,” he said. Gadkari was addressing a meeting of private contractors and official to take stock of progress of centrally funded irrigation projects in the state.
 
 The BJP leader said a meeting of secretaries of water resources departments of all the states would be held to bring out common guidelines. “It would be on the states to adopt it or not,” said Gadkari. 
 
 Even the contractors’ funds will not be held up. Citing a recent decision, Gadkari said now contractors engaged for centrally aided projects can get 75% of their dues within 24 hours of submission of bills. 
 
 “The situation is typical in  , where decision-making has been hampered. Some irregularities may have taken place earlier but there are honest elements too, who have now become extra cautious these days. Corruption will not be tolerated but work cannot be delayed as well,” he said. 
 
 Irrigation tenders of the state are under scrutiny by the anti corruption bureau (ACB). The highest are forty tenders allotted for works under   dam project by the   (VIDC). So far, 14 FIRs have been registered by the agency in Gosikhurd case. Last week, Jigar Thakker, one of the contractors named in a FIR, committed suicide in Mumbai.
 
 “At present, VIDC and other irrigation development corporations of the state are following the manual applicable to public works department’s (PWD) for costing. Irrigation sector has its own nuances and separate guidelines for tender costing need to be framed,” he said.
 
 “Here in Maharashtra, it seems they are expecting outside intervention to set right their internal problems. In that case, the Centre can help by framing a uniform code for irrigation works all over the country,” he said.
 
 Gadkari asked the officials to take early decisions on matters like issuing tenders so that the projects are not delayed. Referring to Gosikhurd dam, he said unless the process of issuing remaining tenders is hastened, the costs would further escalate. “The whole process would end up in a vicious circle and Gosikhurd will become a never ending project,” said Gadkari.
 
 
