TUTICORIN: A Infanta, a 21-year-old BA graduate hailing from  , who survived the police firing by a whisker, has been hearing gunshots in her sleep for the past five nights. Unable to come out of the trauma, Infanta is thankful to a speed breaker in the collectorate that saved her life. When the 21-year-old bent towards ground for helping her friend, who slipped in a speed-breaker, a few bullets whisked pass her including the one that took the life of 16-year-old  .

 
 It was a carnival gathering of local people from Fathima Nagar, Therespuram, mini Sagayapuram at Our Lady of Snows Church to protest against Sterlite. Among the thousands marched towards Tuticorin collectorate was a group including the three girls - A Infanta, J Snowlin and Feloni. “We carried biscuits and bedsheets to camp at the collectorate as we had plans to stay in the sit-in. We braved the police barriers in VVD singal and was heading to the collectorate,” Infanta told TOI. While a section of protesters entered the collectorate, Infanta along with her friends approached the office entrance only to leave in a hurry. “We were hearing gunshots being fired from an elevated place. While running for life, Feloni slipped on a speed breaker. As I was helping her to get up, bullets whisked pass me,” Infanta said.
 
 The 21-year-old added that Snowlin was shot dead by one of the bullets while trying to flee the collectorate. Infanta, who sustained injuries on her shoulders, claimed that there was no warning from the police before opening fire at the protesters. “The police fired intermittently for few minutes. But we couldn’t sense the source. Snowlin was found collapsed near the speed breaker which saved our lives, but not hers,” Infanta added. Many of the protesters, mostly women from the coastal hamlets, were taking part in protests for the first time on May 22. Young girls who participated in the protest had been very vocal all through their way till collectorate believing that they would rest for an entire day.
 
