Sunitha.Rao Bengaluru: More than a year after allotment of sites, the BDA-developed Nadaprabhu Kempegowda Layout is still not inhabitable as it lacks water, electricity and proper roads. Site owners’ efforts to invoke the Real Estate Regulation Act (RERA) to get the agency to pull up its socks are going nowhere as the layout project is yet to be approved by the authority concerned. On October 8, 2017, the Nadaprabhu Kempegowda Layout owners and residents’ association registered an online complaint against BDA on the website of Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) Karnataka. But the complaint has not yielded any result as RERA has raised queries over the BDA application seeking approval for the layout.  “Once the project is approved under RERA, BDA’s work for development of the layout will be regulated by the Act. The authority has been formed by the Government of India in the best interest of home and site buyers,” said Sridhar N, secretary, Nadaprabhu Kempegowda Layout owners and residents’ association, who had complained to RERA about BDA not having registered with the authority. Senior BDA officials conceded that there was lack of clarity over RERA registration. “Earlier, there was some confusion over whether a government housing/layout project is covered by the Act. But we went ahead and applied for RERA registration for all our ongoing projects, including Naduaprabhu Kempegowda Layout. The authority raised certain queries and we have complied with them. We are awaiting clearance,” said the officials. According to the RERA website, questions have been raised over nine projects, including Kempegowda Layout. RERA secretary Pommala Sunil Kumar said the authority takes every complaint seriously. “In case of BDA’s application, there were issues with the registration fee. We are looking into it,” he told TOI.  The layout plot Nadaprabhu Kempegowda Layout involved acquisition of around 4,000 acres of land between Magadi and Mysuru roads. BDA plans to develop as many as 40,000 sites. In December 2016, 5,000 sites were allotted by the BDA. Last week, the agency notified commencement of the process to allot another 5,000 sites. Status at RERA  Real-estate projects under process: 452 Projects facing queries by RERA: 248 Projects approved: 1,107 Projects rejected by RERA: 36 Source: RERA (as on January 2, 2018)