GURUGRAM: The district will soon have a multi-specialty hospital under Public-Private Partnership mode for which in-principle approval was given on Thursday. The approval to built the 500 beds hospital in sector 67 was given in the second meeting of   ( ) which was held under the chairmanship of Chief Minister  . The move will finally offer some relief in affordable health care to Gurugram.

 The officials remained tight-lipped about the details of the project as the some of the concerns are yet to be finalized. However, the sources reveal that around 8 acre of land owned by GMDA has been allotted for the same. The proposal is to have a no profit no loss hospital that will offer affordable health care.
 
 The hospital will be given to a charitable trust or social organisation where minimum charges will be taken from the patients. 
 
 The ownership of the land will remain with government and the government can take over the operations in case the private player does not fulfill the terms and conditions, reveal sources.
 
 Besides this, an additional wing can be added to the   for now so some respite can offered in the existing space crunch in the hospital. The land of the adjacent two schools have been allotted for the hospital building and the construction will be done in 2 phases. 
 
 Deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh said that as of now it is not possible to accommodate students from these schools in another government schools. Therefore, there is a proposal to build a new school building in Gaushala land in Old Gurugram. The school will be shifted there after the new multi-storey building is ready, and only after that the hospital will be built. Meanwhile, the school is offering to vacate around 10 rooms which are adjacent to the hospital building as the immediate solution.
 
 After this the hospital will be constructed in 2 phases.
 
 In the first phase, a new 100 bed hospital will be constructed with residential quarters for doctors in the school land spread in 4.4 acres. In phase 2, the operations from the hospital will be shifted to the new building, and the existing hospital structure will be demolished. Then a 200 bed hospital building will be constructed in its 5.6 acres of land.
 
 The new building will have facilities like Electroencephalography (EEG) machine, burns wards, cochlear laboratory, dialysis centre, orthopaedic, neurosurgeon, specialized surgeons etc. It will be equipped with ventilator, oxygen cylinders, advanced operation theatre, lab-technicians, quick CT Scan, etc.
 
 It will also be an associate to the upcoming Shri Sheetla Mata Devi Medical college is proposed to be built in Gurugram’s Kherki Majra area in sector 102, a senior official told TOI.
 
