LUDHIANA: A local court held a man guilty in a case of murder and sentenced him to life imprisonment. The court of additional sessions judge J P S Khurmi imposed a fine of Rs 7,000 on the convict and ordered him to pay Rs 2 lakh compensation to the complainant. Another accused in the case has been declared a juvenile and his case is pending in a juvenile court.

  Singh and the juvenile were named as accused by division number six police station on allegations that they murdered   factory and stole his gold ring.
 
 According to the prosecution, Yashpal, son of the deceased, said that on November 26, 2005 he went to his house at about 7:30pm while his father was in the guest room of the factory where he usually stayed. At about 6:30am, he said, he received a call from someone saying there was blood in his father’s room. He said he went to the guest house with his brother   and saw his father’s body lying in a pool of blood on the bed. 
 
 On December 2, 2006, inspector Gursewak Singh recorded the statement of commission agent Gurcharan Singh, who told him he knows hosiery workers and labourers nearby as he arranges labour for factories. He said he was at his house when Joginder Singh and the juvenile came to him in a nervous condition and confessed to have murdered Prem Nath to commit dacioty in the factory. On December 5, 2006,   produced the accused before the police and they were arrested. Police also recovered the victim’s gold ring and the weapon used in the crime. 
 
 Later, police produced challan in the case in court. The accused pleaded innocence. Additional public prosecutor for the state said both the accused had confessed to have committed the crime in front of prosecution witness Gurcharan Singh. 
 
 During investigation, the accused got disclosure statements recorded and recovered a gold ring and iron sua (sharp-edged weapon). He said the evidence was corroborated by witnesses and medical evidence and as such, the accused should be held guilty and convicted.
 
 The defence counsel maintained that the accused had been framed and that they had not confessed before prosecution witness Gurcharan Singh. He said the evidence led by the prosecution is weak and medical evidence has not been corroborated by the prosecution.
 
 The court observed that it has been established on record by the prosecution that recovery of a sua (sharp-edged weapon) was effected from   on his disclosure statement and the statement of Gurcharan Singh, though extra-judicial, was corroborated by the recovery of the weapon. The court added that it was established that Joginder Verma was working in the factory and Gurcharan Singh was working in the dye section as per Joginder’s version under section 313 of the CrPC (Power to examine the accused).
 
 
