NEW DELHI: Former India captain   wants   to be more thoughtful while batting. The first batsman to score 10000 Test runs, in his column for TOI, said that he’d have liked to see Ashwin put a price on his wicket while batting during the first innings of the Centurion Test. The offspinner was involved in a crucial 71-run stand with skipper Virat Kohli for the seventh wicket and scored 38 off 54 balls before slapping a delivery from   to first slip.

 
 
 
 
 
 “Kohli’s splendid century kept India in the game as they closed in on the South African total. It was as good a Test century that one could hope to see. It had everything, technique, temperament, solid defence and exquisite strokes. If only Ashwin, who batted so well, hadn’t had a rush of blood and wafted at the first over of the second new ball, India could well have taken the lead,” Gavaskar opined.
 
 ALSO READ: 
 
 
 “Ashwin puts so much thought into his bowling trying to be better than the previous day. If he puts a fraction of that in his batting, he would score more heavily more often. How many times has he been dismissed trying to play on the rise around the off-stump against the moving ball? He has four hundreds against the West Indies but they don’t have a single swing bowler who would tempt him to go for the expansive drive outside the off-stump. If he starts analysing his dismissals, he will realise that it’s he who has got himself out and the bowler hasn’t deceived him.”
 
 Gavaskar also rued Hardik Pandya’s run-out during the first innings. Heading into Day 3, two batsmen held the key for India: Virat Kohli and Pandya. If India were to get anywhere close to South Africa's first-innings total of 335, both of them needed to forge an important partnership. But having sent the first ball of the day towards the boundary, Pandya threw his wicket away; a casual attempt to get back into the crease. Pandya took off for a single but Kohli refused, and while returning to the crease, the allrounder was rather lethargic. His feet and bat were found to be in the air even though he had crossed the line.
 
 “India had started Day Three well, with Kohli and Pandya showing great resolve. But Pandya’s run out gave South Africa a bonus wicket. Not dragging the bat in the crease or not shouting loudly when two fielders are circling underneath a skier is something that shouldn’t be seen at the international level, but with the Indian team it’s a regular feature. The fault lies entirely with the cricketing upbringing that youngsters get. In Mumbai cricket, these are things that are drilled into the players when they are at school so you will very seldom see Mumbai players forgetting these finer points of the game,” Gavaskar said.
 
 India, chasing a record target of 287 to win the Test, were reduced to 35/3 at stumps on Day 4, and have a mountain to climb if they want to avert the possibility of a series loss. Despite their back against the wall, Gavaskar feels India need to be confident about winning the match and backing their strength of batting.
 
 “India must believe they can win this game. The pitch is getting a bit up and down, as was seen with the dismissals of Amla where the ball kept a bit low and de Villiers where the ball jumped from a length. So chasing won’t be easy at all, but like their captain if the Indian players believe they can do it, then they certainly can. It’s been attritional cricket so far but that’s simply due to the pitch, which has not allowed the bat to dominate nor the ball to rule,” he said.
 
