CHENNAI: In the last seven years, the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption ( ) has not conducted a single surprise check on   stations across  , data sourced through RTIs filed by city-based anti-corruption NGO Arappor Iyakkam.

 Surprise check, as the name suggests, is conducted by sleuths at government offices if there is a suspicion of illegal money transactions.
 
 No such check has been conducted from 2015 to mid-2017 in any government department. But from August 2017 till January this year, 61 surprise checks have been conducted and each has resulted in a case being registered. But the police department continues to be left out of the ambit.
 
 Government sources say one of the reasons for this could be the fact that the officers of the DVAC are drawn from the police force, and have to report back to the department.
 
 Another reason given by a former DVAC official is that there are many ‘events’ that happen in police stations that are not strictly ‘legal’. “A surprise check by DVAC can open a Pandora’s box and DVAC sleuths are aware of this. Hence surprise checks are avoided,” the official said.
 
 Another retired DGP-level officer said that in the past, surprise checks have been conducted at the Prohibition Enforcement Wing and Video Piracy Cell where officers have been caught red-handed taking bribes. “It has led to convictions as well,” the official said. Regular checks have been conducted at traffic police stations as well, where officials have been caught with bribe money, he added.
 
 DVAC head MN   said that surprise checks are usually done in government departments where money is handled on a daily basis. “That is not seen in police stations,” he said. There was no restriction on surprise checks at police stations, he added.
 
 The department has, however, conducted ‘trap’ cases on cops, with a DSP in   being arrested just last week. Similarly a cop in the anti-land grabbing cell was ‘trapped’ in December 2016 as well.
 
 Arappor’s RTI also reveals that while DVAC has upped the ante, the internal vigilance wings of government departments are not conducting regular surprise checks. The RTI reply shows that the departments have not filed a single surprise check report in the last year with DVAC.
 
 The retired DGP level official said that these reports are usually reviewed by the Vigilance commissioner. “Earlier the Chief secretary was the vigilance commissioner and hence there would be some issues in conducting vigilance surprise checks. But now a different officer is posted,” he said.
 
 
