PUNE:   and  , who won the prestigious gold and silver medals, respectively, at the passing out parade of the National Defence Academy on Wednesday, shared a “friendly rivalry” right from the days they came together in Standard VI at the Rashtriya Indian Military College (RIMC) in Dehradun.

 Akshat and Sohail competed hard against each other at the RIMC and, later, at the NDA. While Akshat won the coveted President’s gold medal, Sohail not only won the silver medal but also got the honour of commanding the passing out parade.
 
 Akshat, a resident of Bihar and the all-India topper in the NDA entrance exam 2015, told TOI, “It’s a great pleasure that both of us achieved something extra ordinary, which we will be proud of throughout our lives. We are good friends and always had a healthy competition with each other. I topped the course and he commanded the parade.”
 
 In the hour of success, Sohail could barely hide his emotions as he recalled his drill instructor Subedar Major Rajeev Kumar Rai, who died of a heart attack at NDA a few days before the passing out parade.
 
 “He (Rai) was a father figure to me and played a crucial role in grooming me as a leader of the course, besides, imbibing military values among us. The 134th course was to be his last parade and he was working very hard,” said Sohail from West Bengal.
 
 “Today, he would have been proud seeing our parade. He will always be remembered as an inspirational figure by all of us,” Sohail added.
 
 Akshat, who hails from the family of a government teacher, said, “I dedicate my success to my parents and schoolteachers. I did not face much difficulty in training at the NDA as I was familiar with several aspects, thanks to the RIMC.”
 
 Sohail, son of a retired army havildar, also attributed his success to his parents. “They encouraged me to take up a career in the armed forces since my childhood.”
 
 The bronze medal winner cadet, Ali Ahmed Choudhury, belongs to Marora village in Karilganj district of Assam. His father, Abdur Rahim Choudhury, is a retired honorary subedar major from the Corps of Signals of the Indian Army.
 
 The proud father said, “My two sons have completed the NDA training and will soon become military officers.” 
 
 
