RAJKOT: Saurashta zone has clocked the highest year-on-year growth in income tax (I-T) collection in the current financial year. 
 
 The zone’s total net tax collection after issuing refunds from April 1, 2017, to February 22, 2018, stands at Rs 1,280 crore, 60% higher than in the same period last fiscal. The   zone consists of eight districts. 
 
 
  
  
 This is the first time that Saurashtra zone has recorded the highest growth in tax collections among the four zones in Gujarat. The zone is governed by Rajkot chief commissioner of I-T office. The last date of installment for advance tax is due on March 15. 
  
 I-T department has divided its office in four zones in Gujarat. Rajkot zone consists of most part of Saurashtra, excluding Surendranagar, which falls in Ahmedabad zone. 
  
 According to data, Ahmedabad, the biggest I-T collection centre in Gujarat, has registered the lowest growth of 15% , while Baroda zone has clocked 25% and Surat 35% growth in tax collection. 
  
 Rajkot chief commissioner of I-T   said, “PM Garib Kalyan Yojna (PMGKY), I-T declaration scheme (IDS) and operation clean money, which is an ongoing process, has contributed a lot to bring new assesses under the tax net. Goods and Services Tax (GST) has also helped and some traders who till the time were in the unorganized sector had to register under GST and simultaneously under I-T.” 
  
 The data also shows that the rise in tax paid by individual tax payers in Saurashtra has doubled. In the last financial year, the tax collection from individual tax payer was Rs 425 crore, while in current financial year the same has gone up to Rs 814 crore. 
  
 Vice-president of   Parth Ganatra said, “The main reason for the record growth in tax collection is demonetization. But this is a one-time figure and it won’t sustain if government doesn’t take some reformative steps like removing black money from real estate sector and solving the practical problems of MSMEs.” 
  
 This year, Rajkot has also registered a big number of new tax payers. According to data, 1.25 lakh new tax payers have been added against the target of 1.97 lakh. 
  
 President of Rajkot branch of   Ankit Chotalia says the high collection is because small traders had to bring all transactions on paper, which added to the net tax collection. 
  
 For the current financial year, Gujarat has been given the target of Rs 47,400 crore, out which nearly Rs 34,800 has been achieved, the official said. 
  
  
