In the latest episode of Bepannah,   is shocked at seeing the divorce papers signed by her late husband Yash. She says that   signed the papers but   did not sign it.   is shocked to know that Pooja did not sign the papers and both Zoya and Aditya cannot believe themselves. Zoya walks away from his house and Aditya goes to his room.
 
 Sakshi sees Zoya and asks her but the latter leaves Aditya's room. Sakshi goes and asks Aditya's mom about what happened. Aditya's mom tells Sakshi that Pooja had sent divorce papers to Aditya and   interrupts her and tells her that she didn't sign the papers.
  
 Sakshi goes and tells Aditya that Pooja didn't sign the divorce papers which means she did not want to leave him. But Aditya does not agree with it and still believes that Pooja cheated on him. Later, Arjun tells Aditya that he shouldn't have spoken to Zoya in a rude manner, but Aditya tells him she deserves all his hatred as she still believes in her husband Yash. Arjun tells Aditya about Zoya's disturbed state of mind. Aditya goes to look for Zoya. In another scene, Sakshi recognizes Zoya and gets to know about her real identity.
 
 Zoya is walking alone on the streets and starts imagining her conversations with Yash wherein he says that he wanted to tell her the truth but couldn't say it. Zoya slaps him and says that it was her mistake that she believed in him and his love. 
  
 Meanwhile, Aditya sees Zoya walking on the road and talking to herself. She then throws away the ring that was given to her by Yash. Aditya takes the ring and notices that it has Pooja inscribed on it. 
 
 Mahi asks Noor about Zoya and Noor tells her to file a missing report in the police station. Aditya reaches home and wonders that Pooja didn't sign the divorce papers, but then he convinces himself that he won't get confused anymore. Aditya decides to keep the ring with himself. 
 
 Noor starts searching Zoya and Yash's mom tells Mahi to go along with her. Till then Zoya reaches back home.
 
 Aditya goes to the club and gets drunk. On the other hand, Zoya remembers the flashback moments with Yash and also his tragic death. She then remembers what all Aditya told her about Yash and Pooja's love story. 
 
 
