AHMEDABAD: In August last year, case after bizzare case of ‘braid and hair cutting’ were reported. The victims ranged from a 59-year-old woman living in a village in   district to a 14-year-old girl in Ahmedabad city. The incidents came close on heels of similar incidents reported in northern India, where a number of women couldn’t sleep at night, fearing some faceless assailants.

 Mahesh Tripathi, assistant professor of psychology with   (RSU), presented a paper at the   titled ‘Braid Chopping - A Mass Psychogenic Illness in Gujarat: A Qualitative Study’ on Saturday. The paper was co-authored by P P Pirojiya, DSP with the state CID (crime) and Vikas Sahay, DG, RSU. Tripathi and Pirojiya were part of the CID team probing these incidents.
 
 “We studied seven cases across the state through detailed victim interviews and found distinct traits. It started with an incident near Mansa, where the victim was not even sure whether the hair in her hand was hers. The woman had seen police and media near her residence just one day earlier. Another victim got married at an early age and her husband had psychological issues. Almost all the victims had problems at home which were manifested in the form of cutting their hair,” said Tripathi.
 
 He drew parallels between the mass hysteria that gripped north India about a ‘monkey man’, where the person perceives what he/she wants to perceive. “In one of the incidents, the girl had cut her own hair but it was a case of dissociating the self. She said that she had relocated to Ahmedabad a few days before the incident and was constantly watching TV. The incidents were in her mind and she had got hold of a scissors. She came back with a jolt when she hurt herself with the scissors,” said Tripathi.
 
 He added that the youngest of the victims, a 14-year-old girl, confessed that she had cut her own hair as saw an opportunity in the incidents. “Almost all the victims come from the lower economic strata and the majority of them were from outside Gujarat, who were aware of what was happening in their native places. Once CID issued a circular to lodge complaints against these fake cases, the phenomenon was over in a few days. We advised psychological intervention for the victims,” he said.
 
 
