Jalandhar: In his interaction with Canadian media in Delhi before heading home after his week-long tour of India, Canada Prime Minister Justin Trudeau rejected raising spectre of Quebec in a meeting with Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh and has termed the ‘reports false’.

 A Punjab government spokesperson after the meeting between Trudeau and Amarinder in Amritsar on February 21 had attributed the comments on separatism in Quebec, which were widely reported. “His first question in French was about media reports based on a summary from the Punjab government of a meeting held on Wednesday with chief minister Amarinder Singh,” reported The Globe and Mail, adding that, “It said Trudeau cited ‘the separatist movement in Quebec’ saying that, ‘he had dealt with such threats all his life and was fully aware of the dangers of violence, which he had always pushed back with all his might.”
 
 “The reports are false. I said nothing of the sort. On the contrary, I have always said I’m very proud of the lessons that Canada and Quebec have to share on differences of opinion shared in peaceful ways and pluralism and diversity that is positive for our community,” Trudeau told the Canadian media. On a question that relations between Punjab and Canadian government have reached an all-time low and would he invite Amarinder to Canada, Trudeau said he was pleased to be able to refresh and renew the relationship between Canadian government and the CM of Punjab. “I think this is an important relationship and we know that it is important for hundreds of thousands of Canadians and we will continue to look for ways to deepen investments and before that many steps to come for improving the relationship,” he said.
 
 Asked about the a list of 11 wanted men given to him by Punjab CM and his action on it, Trudeau said the Canadian government regularly received information on persons of interest from friends and partners all around the world. “We make appropriate follow-ups on them. I have no further comments to make on the list. I passed it on to the intelligence officials, who will go through proper rigorous Canadian procedures and it is not something that is particularly an out-of-order request,” he said.
 
 On the issue of invitation extended to Jaspal Atwal, which led to huge embarrassment to Canada and his invitation being cancelled, Trudeau said the situation was unacceptable and this individual should never have been invited, adding that he would have a conversation with the MP concerned in Canada next week. Canadian MP Randeep Sarai had recommended Atwal’s name to the Canadian high commission in Delhi and he had already taken full responsibility for it. To another question if the Atwal issue came up during discussion with Indian PM Narendra Modi, Trudeau said they did not discuss the matter.
 
 
