KOLKATA: It is not every day that a team of 20 men—belonging to the Diamond Harbour police district and the Kolkata Police—walks into an ice factory with nine mini-trucks in tow. The densely populated M N  , barely 500m from the   police station, was agog with excitement and shock when they learnt about the reason behind the raid:  , as the British-era ice factory is popularly known in the neighbourhood, was under police lens for stocking carcass meat, not less than 20 tonnes of it.

 
 The police operation at the ice factory, located around 250m from the Rajabazar crossing, began around 10.30pm on Wednesday and continued for fiveand-a-half hours till dawn broke on Thursday. The premises house two cold storages, one on the right of the main entrance and the other near the rear gate. At the end of the search, the unit at the front was sealed and the police took away 1,000 packets of carcass meat, each packet weighing 20kg.
 
 “These godowns were hired by someone called, Bishu, some four years ago. It appeared strange when taxis carrying meat would enter the compound. Usually, mini-trucks would bring in the consignments in small refrigerators. But Bishu’s consignments came in a van and taxis. Whenever we asked, they said Bishu dealt in fish, chicken, beef and mutton,” said a guard at the gate. “The consignments were brought in between 10am and 11am, the time when stocks are usually taken out.”
 
 As TOI took a trip of the ice factory, used for storing meat as much as ice cream, the correspondent found the place dimly lit, with several chambers lining the alleys. Crates lay everywhere and mini-trucks occupied most of the open space. With more than 100 people being employed there, it was difficult to fathom why the accused chose such a busy spot to carry out the operations. “The storage that has been sealed is one of the biggest here. It is strange that nobody checked what these people were up to. We are in touch with cops to ascertain if any negligence case can be made out against the owners,” the officer said.
 
  food inspectors, who reached the spot in the afternoon, had to return empty-handed. “We find every room on the premises, including that of the manager, locked. We will seek the help of the Narkeldanga police station to check the facilities inside. Besides testing the meat, it is important to know how the meat was conserved and the chemicals used,” said a senior KMC official.
 
 Residents of the area were shocked at the revelation. “It is strange that one could store any meat here. We want to know how such a business thrived here, in the very heart of the city,” said  , a resident of the area. Even as police personnel kept guard of the factory premises, onlookers said the men, who would bring in the consignments in taxis, would be reluctant to be drawn into any conversation. “At least three men were arrested from here, but none was from this locality,” claimed one. Another added: “If this carcass meat was sold to hotels and restaurants, the entire city must have been affected.”
 
 TOI called on the number provided in the  , only to be told “there was no news of a raid at barafkal”.
 
