LUCKNOW: A heap of audit reports wait for action as the   (PAC) of   came into being on Thursday. Addressing the meeting to form the committee, Speaker   cautioned the the newly elected chairman of PAC, senior SP MLA Mehboob Ali about impending challenges. 

 Among nearly a dozen of committees of the House, PAC is considered most powerful and prestigious and its chairman is always from the Opposition side and not from the ruling party. The selection of Ali as its chairman also reiterates its thrust on Muslim-Yadav (MY) combination as the leader of opposition Ram Govind Chaudhary is a Yadav.
 
 "A large number of audit reports are pending for the past 15 years and now the time has come to act upon it," Dikshit said on the occasion. "To maintain and implement the financial discipline in the state machinery, the founding fathers of the constitution have made this PAC a very important committee which should act against the guilty on the basis of audit reports presented before the House," he added.
 
 Several audit reports submitted by the CAG and the lokayukta, recommending action against government officers and politicians are gathering dust for the past 15 years. 
 
 Even Governor   reminded the previous SP government several times about the action-taken reports on the recommendation of CAG and lokayukta. But nothing happened despite lokayukta recommnending strong action against at least six BSP ministers.
 
 Similarly , various CAG reports also failed to draw attention of the previous government while among many cases it had highlighted corruption in the controversial sale of the sugar mills in the state during BSP regime. With the constitution of the PAC, which is already delayed by six months, the Speaker expected that those reports would be looked into now.
 
 The PAC has powers to call all those found guilty in various audit reports and and seek their explanation. The Speaker said that if the new PAC and its chairman worked hard to act on the pending reports, it would fix the erring officers and politicians and send a stern message that whosoever was found guilty of corruption would not be spared.
 
 
