AHMEDABAD: A 45-year-old man from the city recently survived   after a rare surgery claimed to be the first of its kind to be performed in Gujarat. The surgery was conducted by a team at   ( ). His cancer-affected bone was taken out and the tumour removed using cryosurgery. After this, the same bone was implanted back in its place.

 Dr Abhijeet  , orthopedic oncosurgeon, GCRI, said the case was referred to them about eight months ago. "The patient had complained of pain and swelling around the knee joint and leg," he said. "After various tests, including radiography, it was confirmed that it was a case of osteosarcoma - bone tumour. He was then referred to the GCRI," said Dr Salunke. 
 
 After conventional treatment including chemotherapy, the doctors decided to perform a surgery that would preserve the patient's knee and ankle joints. GCRI officials said the surgery is rarely performed in India because of the cost involved and the expertise required. 
 
 The surgery, which lasted five hours, was performed by Dr Salunke and Dr   who removed the 17 centimetres (cm) of tibia bone affected by cancer. The tumour removed weighed 1.5 kg and caused a blood loss of about 400 ml.
 
 "A customized plate of about 30 cm was designed on CAD-CAM and manufactured from medical-grade stainless steel for implant in place of the bone that was removed. The removed bone was disinfected and inserted in liquid nitrogen kept at a temperature of -185 degrees Celsius for 20 minutes. This killed the tumour and the bone was re-implanted with the help of the plate," said Dr Salunke. 
 
 GCRI officials said that the patient's progress was monitored and they were happy that recovery took place as planned. The patient has started moving on his own as the bone has adjusted to its natural setting oncee again. The plates will be removed once complete recovery is reported. Dr Salunke said that they had decided to use liquid nitrogen as its alternative, - radiation on the affected part - is not available everywhere and is more expensive. 
 
 
