
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Vijay Shankar isn't going down without a fight. He has smashed three sixes off Bravo to move to 44 off 27 deliveries. Ambati Rayudu seems really unhappy with the way Bravo has bowled the penultimate over. Score 184/5
 
 
 A good over from Lungi Ngidi - six runs and the big wicket of Rishabh Pant. Delhi need 49 runs in two overs to win. Score 163/5
 
 
 OUT! And with the fall of Rishabh Pant so goes Delhi Daredevils' flickering hope. A brave 79-run knock from Pant. Score 162/5
 
 
 Rishabh Pant continues to find boundaries even as the required run-rate keeps climbing. Two fours in the over to the lefty. He moves to 75 off 42. Score 157/4
 
 
 
 While the match is fast slipping out of DD's grip, Rishabh Pant isn't giving up. He continues to find boundaries. Two fours and a six in KM Asif's third over. All from the bat of Pant - the first four took the youngster to his fifty off 34 deliveries. Score 146/4
 
 Second and final time-out of the match. Delhi now need to score at 16.8 runs an over.
 
 
 11 runs from Bravo's first over including a six over long-on to Vijay Shankar. Score 128/4
 
 Dwayne Bravo into the attack
 
 
 Well, finally Daredevils have scored big off Harbhajan Singh. A six to Pant and a four to Shankar in Bhajji's final over. His four runs have resulted in just 26 runs. Score 117/4
 
 
 Vijay Shankar and Rishabh Pant are trying hard for the big shots but they are not coming of. Ravindra Jadeja finishes his final over, giving seven runs. His figures: 4-0-31-1
 
 
 Harbhajan Singh continues to be miser tonight. Delhi batsmen have been unable to score off him. Another tight over from the offspinner. Five runs in it. Score 97/4
 
 
 Rishabh Pant takes the lead and releases some pressure with a four and a six off Ravindra Jadeja. A productive over for the visitors. They need more such overs to stay in the hunt. Score 92/4
 
 
 Harbhajan Singh continues. Another good over for CSK. Just four runs from it. At the halfway stage, DD are 78/4, need 134 in 60 balls.
 
 First time-out of DD innings
 
 
 
 No fireworks from the Big Show tonight as Ravindra Jadeja cleans up Glenn Maxwell on 6. Score 74/4
 
 
 Harbhajan Singh into the attack now. A good over from the veteran offspinner. Four runs in it. Score 68/3
 
 
 A terrible mix-up between captain Shreyas Iyer and Rishabh Pant results in the former being run out on 13. Five runs and a wicket in the over. DD 64/3 in 7 overs chasing 212
 
 Spin introduced in Ravindra Jadeja
 
 
 New batsman Rishabh Pant began his innings in imperious fashion with a huge six off his first delivery and then followed that with a four to third man. 13 runs from the over. 
 
 
 Colin Munro was finally getting into the groove but KM Asif put an end to his innings after having him caught on 26 off 16. Munro had already clattered two fours and a six off successive Asif deliveries in the over before playing one shot too many to be caught at midwicket by Karn Sharma. Score 46/2 
 
 
 Colin Munro finally gets going with a six over midwicket and a four over mid-on. A good over for Delhi - 14 runs from Shane Watson's first over. Score 31/1 
 
 
 Another good over from Lungi Ngidi despite conceding a four to Shreyas Iyer. Just six runs from it. Score 17/1
 
 
 OUT! Asif picks up a wicket in his first ever over in IPL. And it's Prithvi Shaw who walks back after scoring 9. A short delivery, Shaw only manages to hit it to mid-off where Ravindra Jadeja accepts an easy catch. Score 10/1
 
 Another debutante - KM Asif - will share the new ball duties
 
 OVER 1: Just a single from Lungi Ngidi's first IPL over. Score 1/0
 
 
 
 
 
 
 13 runs from the final over including a six and four off successive deliveries to Dhoni. 
 Score 211/4
 
 
 What was turning out to be an excellent over was ruined when MS Dhoni sent the final delivery high into the night sky to move to 39. 11 runs from the over. Score 198/3
 
 Avesh Khan will bowl the penultimate over
 
 
 
 In this third, Ambati Rayudu struck two fours and a six straight over his head. 17 runs from the over. Score 187/3
 
 
 Trent Boult has been taken to the cleaners by MS Dhoni and Ambati Rayudu. Off the first two deliveries, Dhoni smoked two consecutive sixes and followed that with a four to short fine leg. Rayudu added a four of his own to take CSK to 170/3
 
 
 MS Dhoni shows his power as he uses his bottom hand to full use and launches Amit Mishra over long-off for a six. 12 runs from the over. Score 149/3
 
 
 
 
 Avesh Khan returns. And does well to limit CSK to six runs in the over. Score 137/3
 
 
 A good over from Amit Mishra. Eight runs and a wicket in it. Score 131/3
 
 
 Leggie Amit Mishra gets the big fish - Shane Watson's brilliant knock of 78 off 40 comes to an end after he holes out to Liam Plunkett at long-off. Score 130/3
 
 Second time-out of CSK innings
 
 
 Shane Watson and Ambati Rayudu take back the momentum with another big over. Rayudu lofted the third delivery of the over over extra cover region for his first four. Watson followed with two fours in three deliveries to move to 77 off 38. 
 Score 123/2
 
 
 Second successful over in a row for the Daredevils. Two new bowlers have done the trick for them. Maxwell's first over results in five runs and a wicket. Score 108/2
 
 
 
 Glenn Maxwell strikes with his first delivery of the night as he cleans up dangerman Suresh Raina with a straight delivery. Raina scored 1. Score 103/2
 
 
 End of a successful over from Vijay Shankar. He got the wicket of Du Plessis and allowed seven runs in it. Score 103/1
 
 
 
 Vijay Shankar breaks the century stand as Faf du Plessis holes out to Trent Boult at long-off after scoring 33 off 33. Score 102/1
 
 
 Brilliant over from Amit Mishra under the circumstances. Five singles from the over. Score 96/0
 
 
 He then slog-swept Tewatia for his 7th six over the midwicket region. 
 Score 91/0
 
 
 The tactic to cut down the pace has worked. A break in the scoring rate, for now. Five runs from Amit Mishra's first over. Score 76/0
 
 Spin returns in Amit Mishra
 
 First strategic time-out of the night
 
 
 Liam Plunkett cuts a sorry figure as he receives more thrashing from the burly Australian. Two more consecutive sixes - the first over long-off and the next a flick over backward square leg region. 
 Score 71/0
 
 
 Avesh Khan continues. Another good over for the Super Kings. Watson struck his third six, this time via top-edge over long-on. Then Du Plessis finished the over with a four to fine leg region. 
 Score 56/0
 
 
 First up, Shane Watson thrashed him for back-to-back sixes - the first a pull over midwicket and the next a flick to the same region. Then Faf du Plessis scooped his final delivery over fine leg for the third six of the over. 
 Score 45/0
 
 Bowling change no. 2 - Liam Plunkett comes into the attack
 
 
 A decent start from the legspinner. Although, Faf du Plessis managed to hit him for a four over extra cover region. He tried to repeat the shot off the final delivery too but only managed a single with Tewatia adjusting his line after spotting his movement early.
 
 Spin in Rahul Tewatia introduced
 
 
 Faf du Plessis began the over with a four to third man region as Trent Boult went wide. Then Watson struck his second four of the innings through point region. He was served a juicy full toss off the final delivery of the over but missed it completely. 9 runs from the over. Score 16/0
 
 
 A good start from Avesh too. Just a single from his first over of the game. Score 7/0
 
 Right-arm medium pacer Avesh Khan will share the new ball
 
 
 
 Trent Boult raps Shane Watson on the pad and goes for an LBW appeal off the very first ball of the match. Umpire turns it down. Daredevils immediately appeal it. TV umpire stays with his on-field counterpart. Off the next, Watson responds with a four to square leg. Score 6/0
 
 
 
 
 Shane Watson, Ambati Rayudu, Suresh Raina, Faf du Plessis, MS Dhoni (wicketkeeper/captain), Ravindra Jadeja, Dwayne Bravo, Karn Sharma, Harbhajan Singh, Lungi Ngidi, KM Asif
 
 
 Prithvi Shaw, Colin Munro, Shreyas Iyer (captain), Rishabh Pant (wicketkeeper), Glenn Maxwell, Vijay Shankar, Rahul Tewatia, Liam Plunkett, Amit Mishra, Avesh Khan, Trent Boult
 
 
 Delhi Daredevils win the coin toss, opt to field first against Chennai Super Kings in Pune
 
