JAIPUR: A day after bypolls were held on two parliamentary seats and one assembly seat in Rajasthan, the   witnessed vigorous discussions among partymen predicting the  . There seemed near unanimity among partymen of both sides on the outcome of Alwar parliamentary seat, but most found it difficult to forecast the fate of   and Mandalgarh assembly seat.

 Counting of votes for the three seats, which were held by BJP, would take place on February 1. Even as the ruling BJP has been battling anti-incumbency factor on all three seats, it is yet to be seen if the resentment of Rajputs, who openly announced to vote against BJP, would actually result into votes in favour of Congress. Rajputs have been staunch supporters of BJP since its infant days as Jan Sangh. And the man widely credited for associating the community in Rajasthan with the saffron party was late Bhairon Singh Shekhawat, who ruled the state as chief minister thrice before being elected as the Vice-President of India.
 
 On January 14 when more than a dozen Rajput, Ravana Rajput and Charan Rajput organisations held a press conference in Jaipur to declare opposition against BJP, their leaders accused the ruling party of “ignoring” Rajput leaders like Shekhawat and former external affairs minister Jaswant Singh. Jaipur-based Shree Rajput Sabha’s president Giriraj Singh Lotwada had questioned, “Why the state BJP government did not name a single scheme after Bhairon Singh ji? Why BJP denied a ticket to Jaswant Singh ji in 2014 general elections and is now ignoring him while he is bed-ridden?”
 
 Though the three communities listed BJP’s failure to ban the film ‘Padmaavat’ as well as killing of criminals Anandpal Singh and Chatur Singh in police encounters too among the reasons of their resentment, the ruling party tried to assuage their anger related to Shekhawat and Singh. Prime minister Narendra Modi, while in Barmer for project commencement of the refinery on January 16, made special mentions of both the Rajputs leaders in his speech.
 
 Political pundits believe Rajputs, Ravana Rajputs and Charan Rajputs are in a position to influence the outcome of just the Ajmer Lok Sabha seat. Moreover, low voter turnout in Ajmer city’s both assembly segments (Ajmer North 55.88%, Ajmer South 59.46%) is being seen as a result of inactiveness of BJP workers as well RSS cadres. Party insiders blamed it on BJP’s choice of candidate, Ramswaroop Lamba, who despite being a political greenhorn was chosen to encash Jat community’s sympathy for his father ex-minister Sanwar Lal Jat, whose death necessitated the bypoll.
 
 In Alwar Lok Sabha area, the voters’ resentment against local leadership was being seen a major factor against the ruling party. The Yadav community, which is said to be game-changer in the parliamentary seat, appears to have sympathized with Congress candidate Karan Singh who has made a comeback to politics after a decade. Yadavs believe BJP candidate Jaswant Singh being a cabinet minister in state would have nothing to lose even if he lost in the bypoll. 
 
 
