NEW DELHI:   police personnel are now undergoing a strict appraisal process, which covers minute details like the length of hair or condition of uniform to proper on-duty conduct and monitoring locations through Google maps. If caught with five instances of misconduct, a staffer will be shifted out of the unit.

 “Since the traffic police is the most visible wing of the force, a degree of professionalism is essential. Constant monitoring will check corruption,” said  , special commissioner, traffic. “This will not only motivate the men but also keep an eye on the activities of the unit.” 
 
  
 
 In a modernisation drive,   has also revamped its Twitter handle to make it more people-friendly. Under the appraisal project kicked off recently, traffic inspectors in each circle have been asked to monitor the way a traffic   behave after flagging down a vehicle, asks for a fine and reacts to a violator’s response. 
 
 The assessment includes the unit’s response to online complaints or the way they handle suggestions from traffic sentinels. The move has already resulted in a 50% dip in various traffic complaints. The traffic control room immediately forwards a complaint posted on the Twitter handle or WhatsApp to the area traffic DCP and the inspector. It also asks the complainant to share the mobile number so that traffic officers in the area can contact him for a feedback. Once a problem is resolved, cops upload a photograph on the social media handle to inform the complainant. The area DCP also tweets it from his or her official handle.
 
 “We are already using Google maps and related services to know the traffic situation in the city. However, having a live location of the personel helps in effective deployment. To make them punctual, all traffic circles have been asked to ensure that they reach their positions by 7.45am and post their location on the group,” said  , j oint comissioner (traffic). The move is aimed at improving unprofessional practices among the lower rank personnel, said joint commissioner (HQ traffic) Garima Bhatnagar. 
 
 Senior officers will monitor complaints about a persistent traffic problem in an area. “Traffic inspectors in all circles have been asked to meet area sentinels at least once a week to chalk out plans to improve traffic conditions,” said Bhatnagar.
 
 Traffic inspectors have also been directed to ensure welfare of their staff members. The men on the road will be given water bottles and ORS strips apart from umbrellas and shades during heatwaves so that they do not have to stand under trees. “The idea is to make them visible so that violators know that they are being watched,” said an officer.
 
 
