MUMBAI: Coming to the aid of post graduate aspirants from outside state who have done   in Maharashtra, the   on Thursday quashed rules introduced by the state last November making such students ineligible for admissions in government, civic and private institutions. 

 A bench of Justices Bhushan Gavai and BP Colabawalla said that it was a “settled proposition by the   that there cannot be a   set for post graduate admissions”.
 
 Since April 2017, the state has been trying to bring in domicile as a criterion for PG medical admissions . State-run colleges have 50% state quota and 50 % all India quota, while private ones have 50% state quota and 50% institutional quota within which there is 15% NRI quota.
 
 A November 15, 2017 notice issued by the Director of Medical Education & Research (DMER) made all non-domiciled students graduating from Maharashtra “ineligible for admission to postgraduate courses in government as well as private medical colleges.’’ Subsequently, Dr Sharvil Thatte, who hails from Madhya Pradesh and did MBBS in Maharashtra, and eight other medical graduates who were rendered ineligible to apply for PG seat within the state quota, approached the high court. The petitions annexed a list of 150 affected students.
 
 Thatte’s counsel, V M Thorat and Pooja Thorat, argued that the new rule impinged the fundamental rights of students’ under an All-India quota... only on the ground that do not have a Maharashtra domicile when they all have passed MBBS courses from medical colleges situated in the State of Maharashtra and affiliated to Maharashtra University of Health Sciences.’’
 
 Maharashtra advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni justified the need for domicile criteria saying the government spends huge amounts of public money on medical education but faces an acute shortage of doctors in rural areas and primary health care. He said that out-of-state students usually go back to their state and set up practice and are not available for service in Maharashtra. He said that since there is already 50% state quota and 50% institutional quota in private institutions, it is necessary to ensure availability of seats for domiciled students.
 
 The students pleaded that having passed their MBBS from Maharashtra, they be declared eligible and entitled to pursue PG course here. As per the Regulation framed by the Medical Council of India, for being eligible to postgraduate courses,a student is required to pass MBBS from the recognized medical colleges and must complete internship by March 31, 2018. 
 
 Last April, the HC had stayed a similar rule brought in by the state that had overnight rendered almost 700 students outside the ambit of PG admissions. A holiday bench of Justices S S Kemkar and A M Badar had termed the state’s actions “sudden, arbitrary and unreasonable’’as the bar was brought in just days before the final merit list was to be released. The Directorate of Medical Education and Research had on April 27, 2017 decided to allow non-domiciled students admission in a 17.5% management quota in private medical colleges.
 
 The state had then rushed to the Supreme Court but received no reprieve there either. The SC had upheld the HC order which had held against a last minute change in eligibility criteria.
 
 The Medical Council of India’s Regulation also mandates every student to appear for National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and those who secure minimum 50 percentile marks in the said NEET would be considered as eligible for securing the admission. 
 
 The students before the HC had all appeared for NEET held on January 7, to secure PG admissions. On January 23, when results were declared they were found eligible, they said. Admission to undergraduate and postgraduate medical courses in private institutions are governed under the Maharashtra Unaided Private Professional Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Fees ) Act 2015 and its rules. The rules contemplate only three types of candidates: Maharashtra state, minority and NRIs. Hence, the students argued that bringing in another eligibility bar was unauthorized.
 
 
