COIMBATORE: S  , a third year BA History student from a city college, had seen archaeological artefacts and sculptures only in the textbooks. On Thursday, she got first-hand experience in conserving and preserving them.

 Sakthi, along with her classmates, has been undergoing an internship at the Government Museum near   in the city, where they cleaned stone sculptures and archaeological exhibits. “We got to see and learn many things that we wouldn’t have in our classes,” the 19-year-old said.
 
 Working in the museum has also given the students ideas about a new career option. Sakthi’s classmate   said the work got her thinking about becoming a museum curator. “Earlier, when people asked what I would do after graduating from the history course, I would have no answer. After I came to the museum for internship, I learned that museum curatorship is a very good career option,” she said.
 
 Talking about the internship programme, museum curator C   said the initiative hopes to link museums with formal educational institutions. “Generally, museums are seen as institutions of non-formal education. So, we wanted to link with formal educational institutions as an outreach programme by giving internships to students,” he said.
 
 A group of seven undergraduate history students from a city college have been given the 15-day internship, which began on Monday. Technical assistant B Raju is training them.
 
 “As part of the internship, the students will be given hands-on training on various stages of museum management. We will teach them primary conservation of exhibits, which involves cleaning and maintaining. Later, we will move on to primary preservation, which involves using chemicals to treat the exhibits to preserve them. We will provide them resources such as published materials, using which and also by browsing the internet, they will write legends for the exhibits. We are also planning to display those,” Sivakumar told TOI.
 
 The internships are open not only for History students, but also for students from other disciplines. “For example, we have wet and dry preserved animal specimen in our natural history collection. We can teach Zoology students how to maintain them,” he said.
 
 The museum is also planning to rope in artists, photographers and collectors from the city to exhibit their work and collections.
 
 
