BENGALURU: Miffed by the delay in the departure of their flight, over 70 air passengers lodged a complaint with the Kempegowda International Airport ( ) police accusing the airline staff of harassment.

 This is perhaps the first time in the state that air passengers have collectively filed a  . The passengers have alleged that they weren’t given proper information about the flight status and were denied food and beverages during their wait for the aircraft. TOI has accessed a copy of the complaint.
 
 The incident occurred on Sunday when the complainants were to board an Ahmedabad-bound   flight (SG-927). It was scheduled to take off from KIA at 6.55pm and the passengers had checked in on time. But the problem started when the flight didn’t arrive. 
 
 Dharini Shah, a passenger and college student, told TOI: “Around 5.30pm, they (airline staff) told us the flight had been delayed and was scheduled to leave at 8.30pm. When we reached the boarding gate at 8.30pm, they said that they would tell us about the status around 10-10.30pm. When we reached the gate at 10.30pm, we were told it had been further delayed till 12.30am.”
 
 The complainants said many sick and old passengers, some of whom had undergone bypass surgeries, were getting restless and tired. “We waited for hours but were not given anything to eat. We were clueless when the fight would take off. Finally, one of the passengers bought mango juice and water for all the others. That’s when the airline staff offered us something to drink,” Shah alleged. 
 
 But the passengers lost their patience and informed KIA police. Subsequently, they wrote a complaint (with 77 signatures) and handed it over to cops who arrived at the spot. Police said they have registered a non-cognizance report (NCR). The flight took off at 11.32 pm.
 
 A SpiceJet spokesperson said: “The flight was delayed due to a technical issue with the aircraft in its previous rotation. We are not aware of any police complaint. At SpiceJet, safety of our passengers is our top priority.”
 
 
