NAGPUR: After strictures and specific directives of the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court,   (NU) on Monday said it will conduct special examination for students of   (CIIMC) from January 25.

 This will be the second instance where NU would be conducting special exams. It was held for the students of ‘250 banned colleges’ in 2014.
 
 The 296 students from Sunil Mishra’s college were prohibited from appearing in the winter examination last year after the State Department of Social Justice and Special Assistance failed to release their scholarship amount before the deadline.
 
 Earlier, a division bench comprising justices   and Swapna Joshi came down heavily on   and two students, who filed an application stating that they never signed any   for becoming petitioners in the court, and Mishra had taken their signatures on the pretext of releasing their scholarship amount.
 
 They claimed that Mishra had allegedly threatened to stop their scholarships if they protested.
 
 However, CIIMC students’ counsel Bhanudas Kulkarni pointed out that they were disallowed by the university from appearing in the examination since the last couple of years. It was only due to the court’s intervention that they were allowed to appear in the exams and now, three of them want to delete their names after a delay.
 
 Expressing strong displeasure against the applicant students for taking a U-turn, the court tersely asked them to choose between degree and scholarship. After they failed to satisfy HC’s queries, they intended to withdraw the application. But the judges denied asking them to file a detailed reply to their queries by the next hearing scheduled in February.
 
 The court was hearing a plea by aggrieved CIIMC students led by Meshram, who knocked the judiciary’s doors after their scholarship dues were stopped by the government and NU last year. Some of them took admissions for the 2016-17 session and their applications could not be scrutinized till first half of March last year, as the site of the department itself was closed.
 
 Earlier, Meshram and others stated that they completed the term in 2015-16 and received scholarship from the social justice department and there is no amount outstanding against their names. After they applied for transfer certificates, the CIIMC management denied it pointing out that the issue was sub-judiced. They added that they neither met any lawyer nor signed any notary and Mishra had misguided him.
 
 They blamed NU and CIIMC, as both passed the buck on each other for all the troubles faced by the students. With just three rooms, CIIMC offers inadequate accommodation and it has failed to appoint even a single regular teacher till date. They charged Mishra of collecting fees from open category students, but failed to deposit it with NU.
 
 
