NEW DELHI: Rubbishing allegations of 
  ,   said his arrest was a desperate attempt by PM   to divert popular attention from repeated cases of corruption tumbling out of the BJP's closet, the latest being the flight of PNB scam accused Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi.

 
 Congress said harassment by Modi government would not deter the party leadership from challenging the Centre on people's issues.
 
 Congress spokesman Randeep   said the Modi government's "mask" of crusader against corruption lay shattered with scams worth Rs 32,000 crore tumbling out in 10 days and scamsters leaving the nation at will like "Chhota Modi No.1" ( ) and "Chhota Modi No.2" (Nirav), besides Vijay Mallya.
 
 "To divert attention, PM Modi and his government are following their old trick of using political witch hunt, vendetta and malicious intent to deflect the heat from unprecedented bank scams, loss to public exchequer caused by culture of crony capitalism," Surjewala said.
 
  
  
 
 Slamming the CBI as BJP's pet agency, he said the impugned FIPB approval under P Chidambaram as finance minister was granted in 2007 and the FIR was lodged after 10 years, while his son Karti had fully cooperated with the agency. He said neither Karti nor his father nor relatives were ever shareholders or investors in either of the two companies related to the deal.
 
 The spokesman said the FIPB approval in question was a collective decision of six senior-most secretaries of the central government and the then FIPB chairman D Subba Rao, an economist with impeccable credentials who later became RBI governor. Their decision was later approved by Chidambaram as minister, Surjewala added.
 
 "Till date, the CBI has not questioned either the chairman or any member of FIPB nor any motives have been attributed to any individual granting the permission," he said.
 
 Congress mocked that Modi government had shown "ineptitude bordering on complicity" in scams worth Rs 31,691 crore involving "Ni-Mo-Choksi" which were exposed in 10 days and watched them flee the country.
 
