NEW DELHI:   is going to remain a   for the time being. The   along Mathura Road towards Nizamuddin could have eased movement, but the project is   as the files on   continue to be   between the central and   agencies. The plan had been approved by both the lieutenant governor of Delhi and the Unified Traffic and Transportation Infrastructure Planning and Engineering Centre (UTTIPEC ) more than a year ago and construction had been expected from March last year.

 
 A Public Works Department official associated with the project said that 80% of the funds for the project are to be borne by the Centre, the rest by the state. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 “We sent the files to Delhi Development Authority, the nodal agency dealing with the Union urban development ministry, for approval of the financial estimates but haven’t received clearance. We have answered DDA’s queries but don’t know why the project is still on hold,” the official added.
 
 Udai Pratap Singh, DDA vice-chairman, said that apart from the Ashram underpass project, there are many other priority projects for which money from the Urban Development Fund had to be disbursed. These included the Mahipalpur bypass and the skywalk on Tilak Marg at ITO.
 
  “The projects will be carried out one by one and the Ashram underpass’s number will come,” Singh told TOI. He said the current priority was to provide Rs 400 crore to the municipal corporations to clean the city.
 
 At Ashram arterial roads from east and south meet, making it one of the busiest intersections in the capital. Around five lakh vehicles drive past the chowk every day. Since some years ago, when Delhi Metro started underground construction, Ashram has become a 24-hour nightmare for drivers. 
 
 The metro tunnel was created at a lower depth than planned to accommodate the PWD underpass, but while the train tunnelling work is over, the underground motorway project hasn’t even started.
 
 A PWD official said, “Once the construction starts, the project will take 15-18 months for completion. The traffic flow will remain affected during this period.” 
 
 When the underpass starts functioning, this perennially busy intersection will have four different gradients for traffic: the existing flyover, ground level Ring Road and two underground rail and road tunnels. Commuters will then finally have signal-free access to Mathura Road from Nizamuddin.
 
 The plan had been held up earlier at the Delhi government end over a dispute about the estimated cost of the project. After getting the approval of UTTIPEC in January 2016, the PWD engineers prepared a preliminary estimate of Rs 86.7 crore. This was tweaked to Rs 87.5 crore four months later. But the non-clearance of the financing after that has pushed the project into the slow lane.
 
 
