CHENNAI: It was a trek organised to ‘conquer South India’s tallest peak’ to mark Women’s Day. But, from the beginning, many things were wrong. The government claimed no permission was obtained to enter the forest. There was no mention in the brochure that people will be trekking in forest area. In the absence of permission, they did not have forest watcher to guide them which means there was no one there who knew the terrain well. There was no doctor in the group comprising women and children, who are not used to strenuous physical activity.

 Poor planning and a casual approach to trekking in a forest area without a backup for an emergency, including food, water and good communication equipment, turned a happy trek into a disaster on Sunday. Though the forest fire was raging in the area since 11am, the team which trekked downhill for around 4km to 5km, did not get any warning.
 
  
  
 
 Chennai Trekking Club, a non-profit volunteer-based group was not well-equipped. But, a team from Erode that met them had a better guide. It was this guide, who met them at  , a spot where they camped after a downhill trek to have lunch, first warned the Chennai team about possibility of a forest fire and made them move out. R Vijayalakshmi, one of the survivors, said, "We did not know. We thought the club had taken care of that."
 
 The Kurangani   trek was labelled as moderate by the   and the instructions as requirements said good walking shoes and a pair of chappals/flipflops to move around in the camping site, small/compact back-pack to carry water, food and essentials only, thick blanket or sleeping bag, LED torch for night trekking and camp-site, one extra set of clothes to sleep dry at night. There was no mention about possibility of animal movements or precaution for fire hazard. Regular trekkers say that the only instruction was to stick together.
 
 Shankar, a city-based trekker said the trek was termed as moderate "because the hills have a proper trail to follow and climb uphill. Tough treks are not open to groups. Only experienced trekkers undertake such trips. It involves navigating and making your own trail. There will be one or two people for company who are also experienced trekkers."
 
 The two guides, who were with the Chennai team, though trained in mountaineering and disaster management, died. Some of the survivors had to use weak signals on their mobile phones to call for help. There is no news about walkie talkie or satellite phone with the organisers or volunteers for emergencies. On Monday, relatives had trouble reaching the stranded and authorities had to set up a BSNL helpline.
 
 Regular trekkers say teams often go into these areas without knowing that there will be wild life movement by paying a small fee as entry at forest check posts. And the locals, who first reached the spot, were not equipped to handle the injured. 
 
 Trapped, the injured girls had to remain in the forest wrapped in clothes given by locals, no medical emergency team was available.
 
 
