TIRUVANNAMALAI/CHENNAI: A week has gone by after the   of Athimur and neighbouring   lynched a 65-year-old woman and grievously injured four others near Polur in Tiruvannamalai  , but the government is yet to extend any financial assistance to the victims’ families. One of the victims has been battling for life at a private hospital in Chennai.

 Gajendran, 42, father of two daughters, had accompanied his mother-in-law Rukhmani and their relatives K Venkatesan, 52, of Old Pallavaram, S Mohankumar, 45, and M Chandrasekaran, 52, who came from Malaysia, on May 9. They were on their way to their family temple in Thumbakottan Paarai at the foothills of Jawadhu Hills. However, the villagers mistook them for ‘child traffickers’ and unleashed a deadly attack on them at Athimur.
 
 Rukhmani died on the way to the hospital, while others sustained serious injuries. Gajendran was admitted to the Government Vellore Medical College Hospital and then referred to the Christian Medical College (CMC) Hospital. Rukhmani was the wife of Ramachandran, an ex-serviceman.
 
 “Gajendran underwent a neurosurgery at CMC three days ago, but his condition has not improved. We have discharged him from there and admitted him to a private hospital (Chettinad Health City) in Chennai,” R Gopinath, Gajendrans’ brother-in law, said. Gopinath added that his nieces Nithya Shri, 13, and Sakthya Shri, 11, were asking for their daddy. “We don’t know what to say to the children. My sister (Padmavathi) is inconsolable,” he said, hinting that Gajendran’s condition was deteriorating and had a slim chance of survival.
 
 Padmavathi on Monday petitioned the district administration pleading for aid and demanded stern action against the persons who attacked her husband, mother and relatives.
 
  “We have forwarded the petition to the state government for relief. We are waiting for a response,” said an official in the district administration.
 
  The Polur town police arrested six more persons, taking the total tally of the arrested people to 42, on Tuesday in connection with the   incident. “We are on the lookout for several others, including women, in connection with the case,” said inspector of police Suresh Babu. Meanwhile, fearing police action and arrest, the villagers of Athimur and six other villages in Tindivanam panchayat have been staying away from their village. 
 
 
