PATIALA: The city yet again turned into a   ground on Wednesday with four unions protesting in the city, including three doing so near the district administration. The protesters reached the ground near the district administration complex (DAC) in buses and their own vehicles while some others marched to reach the site and protest over the demands.

 It has not the first time that protests in the city had lead to road blockades. However, this time the problem of traffic chaos did not multiply as had been happening in the last few weeks during protests in the CM’s hometown. During the protest the   burnt the copies of Punjab budget in protest against the Rs 200 tax levied by the government on employees. Similarly, other unions, including the truck union operators and  , staged a protest against the state government near the DAC, while PWD employees staged a protest in the city.
 
 Meanwhile, for residents, these protests have become a nuisance. Earlier, in the second week of March, members of four palledar unions of Punjab, including Palledar Union-AITEK, have staged a state-level protest in the secretariat, where the number of protesters crossed the figure of 15,000. They gathered to protest over demands, including the implementation of DC rates for labourers. The protesters parked their vehicles near the grain market and then marched towards the secretariat.
 
 Similarly, on February 7, the farmers blocked the road for over two hours while on the same day PSEB Joint Forum employees also staged a protest in the city, leading to traffic chaos. In November last year, anganwadi workers also staged protests several times in the city over their demands by blocking roads near the Moti Palace. After a few days of their protest, the police took action and used water cannons and cane-charged the protesters to disperse their protest.
 
 Simranjit Singh, a local resident, said that, “We are not against protesters, who are demanding their rights democratically, but they too should think about the inconvenience to public. The protesters should stage the protest in Chandigarh. The problem of traffic chaos is already a major problem here as the roads in the city are in a poor state and congested, making the vehicles move at a snail’s pace. And, when these protesters block the roads, it becomes difficult to manage.”
 
 
