KANYAKUMARI: Stating that the judiciary should have a litigant-centric approach, chief justice of the  ,  , told judges and advocates that they should consider the judiciary in line with the service industry and enhance access to justice to their litigants. She also insisted on the need for speedy as well as quality deliverance of justice.

 She was addressing a gathering after inaugurating five courts - the additional district court (fast track court), family court and the additional mahila court (magisterial level) at the district court campus in Nagercoil, judicial magistrate court II in Padmanabhapuram and fast track court (magisterial level) at Eraniel - from the district court campus in   on Friday.
 
 The chief justice said that advocates play an important role in delivering good quality and speedy justice. She said that this is possible when   come well prepared. She appealed to the judges and advocates to look for ways and means to bring down pendency of cases. “If we render good services more people will come to us,” she said.
 
 Indira Banerjee said that it is unfair when a grandson reaps the benefits of litigation by his grandfather. Justice delayed is justice denied and buried, she said. Inaugurating the family court, she said that lawyers in the family court should strive hard to reunite the breaking couples and families that approach them and settle the disputes.
 
 “I do hope that the family court will reunite spouses and children with parents. We have often noticed in all litigations between members of family or two spouses when their relationship is sour people are guided by ego, emotions and sentiments,” she said and added that nobody is wining by separation. She felt that this has to be explained to those coming to family courts.
 
 Stating that one or two advocates bring a bad name to the system, she asked advocates and judges to treat the court like temples of justice. It is their divine duty to deliver justice, she added. The chief justice also thanked the state government for meeting the infrastructural needs of the judiciary.
 
 
