Tirunelveli: Tension gripped Cheranmahadevi town in Tirunelveli district on Thursday following the murder of a car driver on Wednesday night. According to the Tirunelveli district police, preliminary inquiry revealed that the murder was to avenge the killing of a man belonging to another community in the town in August 2016.

 Police sources said that the victim, G Thangapandi, 22, of Cheranmahadevi, was on his bike at an unmanned level crossing at Cheranmahadevi on Wednesday night. A gang of four armed with machetes and other deadly weapons surrounded and started attacking him. The victim abandoned his bike and fled for his life but they hacked him dead in front of a bank.
 
 Thangapandi’s body was taken to the Tirunelveli medical college and hospital for post-mortem. As the police were preparing heavy deployment as the killers belonged to another caste, relatives of the victim launched a protest and damaged the windscreen of a TNSTC bus heading for Nagercoil. Three special teams were formed to nab the accused. Meanwhile, on Thursday morning, one of the suspects, Kumar, 34 of Cheranmahadevi, surrendered before the Judicial Magistrate-I court at Tirunelveli. On the directions of the court, he was lodged in jail under judicial custody for 15 days.
 
 Investigations revealed that Chellaiah, 45, of Kottaiyadivilai Street in Cheranmahadevi was hacked to death by Thangapandi’s brother Mayandi, 19, and his accomplices on August 8, 2016. It is learnt that Chellaiah, who belongs to another caste, opposed Mayandi and others consuming alcohol on the temple premises, which led to his killing. Mayandi was arrested and is still in jail as he has been detained under Goondas Act. The police suspect that Chellaiah’s relatives could have murdered Thangapandi to avenge the former’s death. 
 
 On Thursday tension gripped the town as many shops were closed and a group comprising relatives and a few others staged a road blockade near the Cheranmahadevi bus stand. The protesters also damaged five bikes and two autorickshaws on Kottaiyadivilai Street and the windscreen of a TNSTC bus. The police resorted to use of force to bring the situation under control. 
 
 
