PANAJI/BICHOLIM: Town and country planning minister and member of the cabinet advisory committee   Sardesai tried to placate the   affected people by demanding that the Centre must issue an ordinance to restart minging operations.

  Sardesai, who has been facing flak from anti-PDA groups over Regional Plan 2021, used his visit to the mining belt of Bicholim for the ordinance demand. Union minister Nitin Gadkari, during his visit to the state last month, had ruled out any ordinance.
 
 Sardesai also warned mining companies that they should not retrench their workers and called for efforts to revive agriculture.
 
 Mining in Goa came to a halt on March 16 following an apex court order quashing renewal of 88 mining leases. The state government sought opinions from legal luminaries on its chances of filing a review petition in the  , but received replies in the negative.
 
 Speaking at a function at Mayem, Sardesai said, “When we don’t have a legal opinion in our favour, we have to exhaust other options to restart mining activities in the state including the Union government coming up with an ordinance.”
 
 Speaking earlier, Mayem MLA Pravin Zantye told the gathering that 40% of the residents of Mayem are dependent upon mining and that the “government is with the people”.
 
 Sardesai said that the state government could not “remain blind” to such a situation and that mining operations must restart with a focus on sustainable mining.
 
 “Agriculture should be revived in the state, but there is also a need for mining for revenue generation,” he added. Sardesai further came down heavily on mining companies who are currently retrenching their workers.
 
 “The companies cannot retrench their workers to put pressure on the government, as it is not the government who has stopped mining. Our government also wants that mining should be restarted,” he said. “After reaping benefits of mining for so many years, the companies cannot lay off their workers. If this happens, then the government will have to think over the situation and it should not allow such companies to take any more benefits of mining in the future.”
 
 Vedanta employees, who were asked by the company not to report to work, also met the TCP minister at Mayem. “In these circumstances, somehow, we have to help out Goenkars,” Sardesai said.
 
 Union minister for highways, road transport and shipping Nitin Gadkari recently said that it was not possible to pass an ordinance to overrule the apex court order or to bring an amendment to the Goa Daman and Diu Mining Concession (Abolition and Declaration as Mining Leases) Act, 1987, to continue mining operations in the state.
 
 Major mining companies in the state have already started asking their employees not to report to work. Some companies have asked their management staff to resign from their jobs.
 
 This month, the mining division of the Chowgule Group also asked around 500 of its workers not to report to work, while the Fomento group had asked around 800 of its management-level staffers to resign and look for jobs elsewhere. A source had said the company took the decision as it could not limit its staffers' career prospects by asking them to stay back in Goa.
 
 Similarly, in March, Sesa  , a Vedanta group company, had asked all its employees not to report to work with immediate effect. Sources had said Vedanta has started transferring its management staff to company units outside the state.
 
 
