CHENNAI: Just a day after   said the “date” for talking about “politics” is yet to come, social media was abuzz with questions over his real intent. With the superstar dwelling more on “linking south Indian rivers” and avoiding any reference to the Cauvery issue at the audio launch of his latest film ‘Kaala’, it has left observers wondering whether he is keen on the political plunge at all.

 
 On Wednesday, Thuglak editor   said Rajinikanth had the capability to fill the leadership vacuum in TN. “If Rajinikanth and BJP come together, they can capture power in the state,”   said. But on Wednesday evening, Rajinikanth stopped short of saying anything concrete about his political plans. He did not respond to fisheries minister D Jayakumar’s indirect attack saying, “Everyone cannot become an MGR.”
 
 
  
 
 “More than politics, his reference about the perils of associating with more intelligent people and ending his speech by narrating the story of a deaf frog too added to the confusion,” said political commentator Tharasu S Shyam. “From his speech, one can decipher that he wants only his fans to be his political followers. This goes against the current trend where an actor’s fans have their own political liking, irrespective of what the actor’s political ideology may be.”
 
 Tamil Nadu, as a lower riparian state, has enjoyed rights over Cauvery for ages but has been struggling in the recent past. “Instead of talking about it, Rajinikanth spoke about linking rivers in south India. When implementing a scheme for our rightful share of Cauvery is difficult, how will it be possible to get people from four states to agree to share water from Godavari, on which   does not have a right over,” asked Shyam.
 
 Unmindful of the charges, Rajinikanth met all 32 district secretaries of Rajini Makkal Mandram on Thursday and urged them to enrol more members. “We want the basic structure ready before anything else. Hence, our focus is to establish a branch committee of 30 members in every village. We have completed 35%-40% of that task already” Rajini Makkal Mandram state secretary   told TOI. “He has also agreed to meet all the 9,000 office bearers of the mandram sometime soon,”   added.
 
