KANNUR: A high-level central team is likely to visit  , where residents and farmers are agitating against the construction of national highway through a paddy field, in the first week of May to evaluate the situation. 

 According to the   leadership here, the central government decided to intervene in the matter after the party state president Kummanam Rajasekharan made a representation before the Union ministry of environment, forests and climate change. 
 
 As per the instruction of the ministry, the research officer from the regional office (southern zone) in Bengaluru, John Thomas, along with officials of Kerala government and the   ( ), would visit the site on May 3 and 4.
 
 The residents of Keezhattur were planning to take out a 'long march' to Thiruvananthapuram in May to protest against the current alignment.
 
 Suresh Keezhattur, who is at the forefront of the campaign against the bypass project, said the decision is a welcome one, but they would go ahead with the long march if there is no official announcement on changing the alignment. The date of march would be announced on May 5.
 
 "When we had brought this issue before the central government, we were give a promise that the matter would be looked at. The Centre even asked the state government to study the issue and submit a report, but nothing happened, so this is a welcome decision," he said.
 
 According to Keezhattur residents, there are viable alternatives to built the bypass or widen the national highway but some vested interests are adamant on developing the bypass through their paddy fields.
 
 The CPM-led Kerala government is adamant about developing the bypass through these paddy fields as part of the NH-widening. The government is of the view that the alignment was finalized by the NHAI and it is their responsibility is to acquire the land identified by them.
 
 However, the political parties, including the BJP, has supported the residents, mostly   workers and sympathizers, who have formed a collective, Vayalkkilikal, to fight against the bypass project, as they are concerned about the environmental impact.
 
 
