KOCHI:As the city continues to face unprecedented  , pressure is mounting on Kochi   to speed up construction works along arterial roads in the city. The ongoing Metro works at many areas in the city, including MG Road, Kaniyampuzha Road have adversely affected smooth movement of vehicles. 

 Delhi Metro Rail Corporation ( ) said that the agency was aware of the situation and has taken every possible step to complete the works on schedule. 
 
 The Metro agency said that the construction of the balanced cantilever bridge across the railway lines at Ernakulam south will be completed by August. The sophisticated architecture involves a 90m bridge high above the railway lines. It does not have any supporting pillar.
 
 "The balanced cantilever structure bridge being built in Kochi has a curved design. Each segment of the bridge is 3m long. The work along the second segment from Panampilly Nagar side and works from the cabin side of railway are progressing. The work of the bridge will not affect the movement of trains on the tracks below it," said DMRC spokesperson. As the construction of the bridge is completed, the Metro authority will cross a major milestone in the execution of Kochi Metro.
 
 The authority said that the works of Metro station at Elamkulam is at an advanced stage, while that of Panampilly Nagar and Vyttila are progressing fast. "Piling works are progressing at Thykoodam and Ernakulam South. Our target is to complete the entire civil works of   from Maharaja's College to Pettah by December 2018," added the spokesperson.
 
 Once the works along the Metro's viaduct is completed it is expected that many stretches of arterial roads, which are currently barricaded, would be thrown open to traffic.
 
 "Kochi Metro wants to complete the works taking place on the roads at the earliest. We will also carry out road restoration works without delay. Those working on the project are also keeping track on the heavy movement of vehicles through the city. The construction works taking place on arterial roads and major junctions in the city have slowed down traffic," said a Kochi Metro official.
 
 Meanwhile, DMRC said when civil works get over they will be able to begin system works. 
 
 Earlier, Kochi Metro Rail Ltd (KMRL) managing director APM Mohammed Hanish said that the process of acquiring land from Thykoodam to Pettah was completed. He had also stated that the Metro agency has sorted out all issues with oil companies over the Metro's alignment from Pettah to Tripunithura.
 
 
