HYDERABAD: The deep divide within the   came out in the open yet again as party general secretary   was not allowed to table the draft political resolution, one of the most important documents, at the party   which got under way here on Wednesday.

 The resolution, cleared by the   in January, was instead presented by Yechury’s predecessor   in what was seen as an unusual break from the convention of the party general secretary tabling the draft resolution and throwing it open for debate and discussion.
 
 Yechury, however, tabled the minority view on the political resolution, the one he had proposed and which was rejected at the January meet. The Central Committee also accepted 286 amendments to the draft political resolution, discussions on which will begin on Thursday. The resolution, once adopted will spell out the Left party’s tactical political line, seen as critical in the run-up to the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.
 
 Mallu Swarajyam hoists flag at inaugural session of the CPM’s 22nd Congress in Hyderabad
 
 The departure from norm, sources in the party said, was because two sets of draft political resolutions were moved. “Since the general secretary did not agree with certain aspects of the majority draft, and was seeking a debate and discussion on the minority view, it was considered appropriate that he should table the version he agreed with,” a source said.
 
 The development didn’t appear to have gone down well with a section of the party that backed Yechury’s draft political tactical line, advocating an ‘open’ approach towards working with Congress. The Karat faction, on the other hand, is against any understanding with Congress.
 
 An official party release sought to downplay the divide. “Since there is a divergent view within the Central Committee on the political-tactical line to be pursued...in the best tradition of inner-party democracy, debate and discussions, the minority point of view of the Central Committee was placed before the delegates by Comrade Sitaram Yechury,” it said.
 
 Sources said the debate which began on Wednesday may see the two draft political resolutions being put to vote. A defeat for the Yechury line at the party Congress, the CPM’s highest decision-making body, may impact his chances of being re-elected as general secretary, as he would be seen to be lacking the “moral authority”.
 
 A report on pre-Congress amendments was also placed on the the first day of the fiveday party Congress.
 
