MOHALI: Just four days after a 17-year-old girl committed suicide ahead of her board exams, another student gave in to the   and ended his life in Mohali on Wednesday, hours after appearing for his physics exam.

 The deceased,   Singh, a 17-year-old student of Class XII, was allegedly upset over his performance in the exam.
 
 Only son of his parents, Karanbir hanged himself with the ceiling fan at his grandparents’ house in phase IV, Mohali, in the evening.
 
 He was studying in Class XII non-medical through an open school and appeared for his board exam at   in Sector 36 Chandigarh on Wednesday.
 
 Police handed over the body to the parents on Thursday after completing inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.
 
 Karanbir was cremated at Mohali cremation ground. Inconsolable parents –– father Arvinder Singh and mother Inderpreet Kaur –– said Karanbir was very keen on pursuing engineering in the future. And he never showed any symptoms of depression or sadness in relation with his studies.
 
 Resident of phase VI in Mohali, Karanbir left a suicide note in which he has said “he alone is responsible for the step and does not blame anyone.”
 
 ASI Amarajit Singh, the investigating officer, said police found the suicide note from his pocket in which he also said that he did not do well in his physics board exam.
 
 “The boy believed that he had not done very well in the exam and this is why he possibly ended his life,” said the ASI.
 
 This is a second death in the Tricity since the board examination has started. Earlier on March 4, a Class X girl in Mullanpur ended her life by consuming poison as she did not want to continue with her studies.
 
 In the last five years, the Tricity and its surrounding areas have witnessed several deaths of students during exams or after their results were declared.
 
 Last year, a Class XII student had committed in   after failing in exams.
 
 Box: Girl’s suicide
 
 March 4 | A Class X student, 17-year-old Preeti of Government Modal Senior Secondary School Dhanas, ended her life by consuming poison at her residence in Milk colony in Mullanpur. Preeti had committed suicide a day before her exams were to start. According to her parents, Preeti, who was a class monitor, was under a lot of stress as she didn’t want to continue with her studies.
 
 Box: Tall Toll
 
 March 2017 | Akash, 19, a Class XII student, committed suicide in Khuda Lahora. He was in depression after failing in exams
 
 May 2017 | Tonish Kumar, a PU student, committed suicide by jumping before the moving train at Baltana, Zirakpur. He was a resident of Sector 28, Chandigarh
 
 July 2017 | Indu, 21, ended her life at CRPF Camp in   as she was under stress after failing to clear a job interview
 
 March 2016 | Depressed over getting low marks in a revision exam, Harmanjot Singh, 15, a student of Class IX committed suicide at his house in Phase 10, Mohali.
 
 March 2012 | A 14-year-old girl student of Class VIII in a Chandigarh school committed suicide after her parents scolded her for not preparing for her exam
 
 
