PATNA:   ( ) has issued warning for cold day conditions at many places in the state till January 16 even as residents got slight respite from biting cold conditions with sun coming out of fog after noon on Friday.

 Both minimum and maximum temperature surged slightly at most places in the state on Friday. Patna’s maximum temperature witnessed a rise of nearly four notches in past 24 hours as it was recorded at 15.4 degrees C against Thursday’s maximum reading of 11.7 degrees C.
 
 While the highest maximum temperature in the state was recorded at   (18 degrees C), the lowest minimum temperature was recorded at Purnia (5.8 degrees C).
 
 Temperature surge notwithstanding, Patna Meteorological Centre declared severe cold day conditions in Patna, Bhagalpur, Supaul, Forbesganj and   on Friday. Cold day conditions were also declared in Gaya, Muzaffarpur and Purnia.
 
 In meteorological parlance, severe cold day is declared when the minimum temperature touches 10 degrees C or low and there is a departure of more than 6.5 degrees C in maximum temperature. Cold day conditions, on the other hand, are declared when the minimum temperature touches 10 degrees C or low and there is a departure of 4.5-6.4 degrees C in maximum temperature.
 
 Meteorologists attributed the slight surge in temperature on Friday to moisture incursion. However, they were also of the view that the northward movement in mercury column will be short-lived. 
 
 “Moisture content in the mid and upper tropospheric levels caused rise in the night minimum temperatures over north and adjoining parts of central India by 2-3 degrees C, thereby abating the severity of cold wave and ground frost conditions. However, a change in this pattern is likely and thus the night temperatures are likely to fall by 2-3 degrees C from Saturday, resulting in the reappearance of cold wave conditions over parts of northwest and adjoining central India,” the all-India weather bulletin issued by IMD on Friday stated. The IMD also issued a warning for dense to very dense fog at few places in state till January 16.
 
 Meteorologists are also keeping a close watch on two western disturbances approaching upper Himalayan region in Jammu and Kashmir. Western disturbances are low-pressure areas or extra-tropical storms originating from Mediterranean Sea, Red Sea and Caspian Sea, which cause winter snowfall or rainfall in northwest Indian subcontinent.
 
 “The first western disturbance is expected to hit J&K on January 14 and the second on January 16. If snowfall occurs due to the western disturbances and winds start blowing towards Indo-Gangetic plains, it may lead to further drop in minimum temperature along with cold wave conditions across  ,” said Sandeep Kumar, a meteorologist at Patna Meteorological Centre. 
 
 
