MUMBAI:   (CR) services came to a halt during the peak hours on Tuesday morning due to rail-roko observed by 400-500 apprentice students who were demanding permanent jobs. 

  
  
 The agitation that began at around 7 am between   and   stations on all the four lines was called off several hours later. Train services have resumed on the Central Line. Railways minister Piyush Goel is scheduled to address a press conference at 11:45am on this issue.
 
 
  
 
 According to an RPF estimate, there were more than 3,000 protesters who had come from from as far as Bhusaval. Some had even come from Punjab and MP. Protesters on the other hand claimed that their strength was above 10,000.
 
 
  
  
 
 Central Railway spokesperson said, "Due to some agitation between Matunga and Dadar, rail traffic is affected between Matunga and   from CSMT."
 
  
  
 
 Apart from office-goers, students too were affected because of the agitation that was specifically planned to hit peak hours. 
 
  
  
 
 Railway Protection Force and   personnel rushed to clear the site. Police had to resort to lathicharge as the protesters pelted stones at them. 
 
 Some commuters complained that the number of BEST buses plying isn't sufficient and their frequency too is not as expected. There are crowds at bus stops and people are desperately waiting to get a public transport to reach offices in south Mumbai.
 
 Several other commuters also complained that the taxis outside Sion and Matunga stations are refusing to ferry them and many cabs moved out from the area after learning about the agitation and huge passenger rush.
 
 "There is no provision of giving jobs to the apprentices as per the Apprentice Act. They are given only training for a specified period to improve their skills and experience of having worked in the field. However, Ministry of Railways have taken a decision and reserved 20% of the seats filled through direct recruitment. The notification is already issued with last date of submitting application as 31.3.2018. Apprentices can apply against this notification and Special Examination will shortly be held for Apprentices who have done training in Railway Workshops under Apprentices Act," said a release issued by the Central Railway on Tuesday.
 
