PUNE: One person died after he was thrashed, 25 vehicles were torched and over 50 vehicles were damaged in stone pelting as clashes broke out between villagers from  , Pabal and Shikrapur and a large group of people celebrating the January 1, 1818, victory of British troops over Peshwa Bajirao II’s army in Koregaon Bhima. Dalits were part of the British troops.

 The Shikrapur police confirmed the death. They said the body of 28-year-old Rahul (surname not known) was sent to Sassoon   for a post mortem. Three people were injured.
 
 ALSO READ: 
 
 
 The Pune rural police said buses, four-wheelers, including a police van, were among the torched vehicles. The mob was brought under control around 1.30pm. Shops and petrol pumps were shut. A bandobast was already in place in the area as the villagers were opposed to Monday’s rally. Two CRPF companies, summoned on Monday, were stationed at Shikrapur to prevent any further trouble.
 
 Speaking to TOI, IGP (Kolhapur range) Vishwas   said there was tension in the area since Monday. “Trouble broke out in the morning after a few men with saffron flags visited the area. Later, villagers set ablaze eight vehicles on the highway and some threw stones at vehicles,” he said.
 
 Eyewitnesses said the men from Pune with flags urged the villagers not to put up with the celebration. This group had also opposed the  , addressed by newly elected Gujarat MLA Jignesh Mevani at Shaniwarwada on Sunday evening. Nangre-Patil told TOI the situation was under control by 7pm. “So far, no arrests have been made. We have cordoned off the roads leading to the Koregaon memorial. Heavy police bandobast has been deployed. There were very few people on the highway. A majority of the miscreants were hiding in farms along the highway and pelting stones,” he said. Many people who had gone to the memorial were making their way home on foot on Monday evening.
 
 
 
 
 
 According to Pandurang Balkawade, secretary of Bharat Itihas Sanshodhak Mandal, a company of the British troops comprising 1,000 men arrived at Koregaon along the Bhima river, from Shirur in Pune district. The British contingent saw the Peshwa troops on the opposite bank and decided to seek shelter in the village gadhi (fortress). Peshwa and   decided to send 3,000 men, mostly infantry and guards, with two guns to Koregaon to attack the British. The battle started from 10am on January 1, 1818 and went on till night in which the British suffered heavy losses. According to accounts written by British officers, including Captain Staunton and Doctor Wiley, they could not get water or food for 42 hours and suffered huge losses. Maratha troops withdrew because they wanted to intercept Brigadier General Smith and his troops before they reached Pune.
 
 “After the defeat at Khadki and Yerawada (on November 5, 1817), Peshwa Bajirao II was stationed at Phulgaon near Perne Phata along with Pratapsinh Chhatrapati and their troops comprising over 20,000 soldiers drawn from different castes and communities. The Peshwa received information (around December 1817) that Brigadier Gen Smith was on his way from Shirur to attack Pune with his troops so he and Pratapsinh Chhatrapati decided to intercept him. There is enough documentary evidence that the British never perceived this battle to be a victory,” said Balkawade. The British erected an obelisk in memory of the battle, which has become an important symbol of Dalit assertion as some members of the community were part of the British troops. Thousands of Dalits pay respect to the memorial here every year. 
 
