BHOPAL: A 28-year-old woman, who won the Miss Madhya Pradesh title at a competition organised by a city-based acting and modelling training institute, has accused the institute director of harassment and molestation.

 She alleges that the director started pressuring her for sexual favours when she asked for her prize money of Rs 6 lakh. According to the complaint, the director, a 40-yearold, threatened the woman by saying that he had taken nude pictures of her by setting up cameras in the changing room, and he also tried to “trick her into an emotional trap” by claiming he would commit suicide if she didn’t give in to his demands. She says he told her that he has already written a suicide note.
 
 TT Nagar police registered a case on Tuesday but haven’t arrested the accused yet.
 
 The woman, an MBA graduate, told TOI that she came to know about the Miss MP competition on Facebook. She met the director of the institute that was holding the contest and said she wanted to compete. She was told to pay Rs 18,000 as fees for a year’s coaching in acting and modelling. He told her that if she wins the competition, she would get Rs 6 lakh cash reward and the institute will pay for her professional portfolio shoot worth Rs 90,000, says her complaint.
 
 Director used to text model late at night
 
 She refused to pay the fees and backed out, but the director allegedly “lured her” by offering a scholarship through his NGO. She completed the documentation, took part in the contest and won it. But her troubles began right away, she says.
 
 She alleges there was no photo shoot and when she went to collect the prize money of Rs 6 lakh, the director touched her inappropriately and told her bluntly that she would have to get into a sexual relationship with him.
 
 He allegedly began texting her late at night and often called her to the institute. When she resisted, he allegedly told her that he had nude photos of her, says the complaint. The model alleges that he has molested many other girls, including minors, who visited his institute for training.
 
 On Sunday, around midnight, he allegedly sent her a WhatsApp message saying that he had readied his suicide note and she would be responsible for his death. That was the last straw.
 
 She confided in her parents and approached police. Investigation officer   said a case has been registered, but the accused is yet to be traced.
 
