Two years ago, Shakuntala Shah, now 40, had little to look forward to. Suffering from depression, this morbidly obese woman — weighing close to 200kg — shot off several letters to Prime Minister   and the then chief minister,  , seeking permission for euthanasia. A bariatric surgery, following which she now weighs just 69kg, brought a dramatic change in her.

 Shah, who was bedridden for 13 years, started a new innings of her life as a social worker, who entertains patients at mental hospitals by singing and helps elderly leprosy patients who are otherwise treated as untouchables by many.
 
 Last Sunday, this woman who once could not cook for her family of three, prepared and distributed meals to 300 persons from poor families, after she was approached by the   and KTR Yuvajan Vibhag , which uses funds collected from CRPF jawans and police personnel to run an all-India free food campaign.
 
 "Through this campaign we feed poor people twice a month at one selected state. The funds are saved from our salaries. This time, we wanted to conduct the all-India free food campaign in Vadodara and approached Shakuntalaben, who readily agreed to provide her services," said  , who serves with 78 Battalion of the CRPF in Nagaland.
 
 Qayyum and Mahendra, who is from the same battalion, and Abdul Rehman from Telangana state police among others are running the campaign.
 
 "God has given me a new life. It is like a new ‘avatar’ for me and I did not hesitate once when the group approached me to organize the food campaign," said Shah, recollecting how, for 13 years, she could not even enter the kitchen of her residence at Mandvi to cook food for her family.
 
 "These social campaigners a had budget to feed 50 persons. Instead of roping in a caterer, I decided to cook the food myself, so we could feed at least 300 persons at the slum near the Narmada canal at Chhani," she said.
 
 Since 2016, Shah underwent six surgeries, including her first bariatric surgery, two operations to remove excess fat from her hands, two for her legs and another one after one attempt to remove excess fat from her body failed.Although she needs a wheelchair to move about, she has become a regular volunteer who serves free food during ‘bhandara’ programmes organized at temples in the narrow lanes of the old city or spends time with the elderly at the old age home at Warasiya Ring Road.
 
 "I don’t want to waste my life further," said Shah, who was suffering from multiple obesity-related diseases including diabetes, asthma, high blood-pressure. 
 
 "For the last year, I have even started selling natural agricultural and healthcare products from my home. I have turned into an entrepreneur," says Shah, whose husband, Mayur, who is disables, helped her through those "horrifying" times, which began just one year after their wedding.
 
 
