JALANDHAR: After failing to get any buyers for the potatoes kept in the cold stores for the nearly a year, the owners of these stores in   region — considered the potato hub of Punjab — have started throwing the tubers out. Potato growers and owners of cold storages are saying that demonetization of currency in November 2016 derailed their cycle and they had not been able to recover from its impact even now.

 According to official estimates, around 15-20 % of potato, around 2 to 2.5 lakh tonnes, in four districts of Doaba region that was lying in cold store has gone waste. The cold stores are owned by the potato growers and they store produce of other   too. Some other cold stores caretakers, owners of gaushalas (cow shelters) and dairy farmers from Rajasthan are now taking away the produce for free.
 
 Doaba is the hub of potato seed cultivation. Seeds from here were being supplied to growers across the country. Potato farmers say that that they have not even been able to recover their costs.
 
 Satinder  , who runs a cold store near   village in  , said he had to throw out around 20,000 bags (one bag=50kg) and most of these were of other potato growers. “Potatoes being thrown out by us appear as good as fresh. Some gaushala or dairy owners are taking these to Malout and Rajasthan. We have not even been able to recover our costs of power bills and labour. For storing these. I don’t know how we will be able to make up for the losses. Farmers also don’t have the capacity to pay the rent for storing their produce,” he said.
 
 “Potato trade was running on cash, and after demonetization there were no buyers through the year. Only a part of the last year’s crop could be sold and now also we are not sure if the new crop will get enough buyers,” Satinder said.
 
 “I have thrown out around 55,000 to 60,000 bags. Half of these were of my own crop while rest belonged to other growers,” said Jassa Singh, who runs a cold storage near Lohara village. “My losses have totaled to around Rs 1.5 crore. Other growers did not pay full rent as they also could not find any customers for the stored produce,” he said.
 
 Owners of a cold store near Baada Jagir village Satnam Singh said he had to throw out around 7,000 bags. “Both farmers and cold store owners, who double as growers, have been financially drained as there has been no reprieve ever since demonetization,” he said.
 
 Tega Singh, who has a cold store near Tashpur village, said he had to throw out around 2,000 bags. “Some gaushala managers or dairy owners are taking potatoes away as cattle feed,” he said.
 
 Jalandhar deputy director of horticulture   said around 15-20% of the potatoes lying in cold stores remained unsold. “Now people have to make space for new crop,” he said.
 
 Responding to a query, he said that there were around 180 cold stores in Jalandhar and each store was of around 5,000 tonnes storage capacity. He said in Doaba region there were around 300 cold stores.
 
 Nodal officer of the horticulture department for potatoes Paramjit Singh said Doaba was worst hit due to the crisis as it was producing tuber seeds.
 
 
