GURUGRAM: Work on 328 bus stops that are to come up across the city kicked off on Monday with Gurugram Metropolitan City Bus Limited (GMCBL) planning to roll out the first phase of the proposed city bus service in August.

  administrator Chander Shekhar Khare, who also holds the post of CEO of GMCBL, performed bhoomi puja for two such shelters (bus stops) at Huda City Centre and Ghata to mark the beginning of the project.
 
 
  
 Under the plan, GMCBL — the special purpose vehicle (SPV) set up in August last year to launch the bus service — will construct all 328 bus queue shelters at an estimated cost of Rs 40 crore. 
 
 Sources said the firm was looking to construct around 50 shelters every month and complete the work by August, in keeping with chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s earlier announced schedule to start the bus service from August 15.
 
 “The deadline for the construction of  , according to the contract, is 10 months. But we are planning to complete the work by August and ready the shelters before the launch of the first phase of the bus service,” said Khare.
 
 The municipal corporation will also build another 125 bus shelters in areas under its jurisdiction, taking the total number of bus stops in the city to over 450. And if MCG sources are to be believed, most of those bus stops are almost ready. “The shelters, which will be constructed along the roads, will have advertising display boards and, thus, generate revenue too,” said Khare.
 
 For the proposed bus service, a total of 500 buses will be launched in two phases. The first phase will see 200 low-floor, non-AC buses, which will run on CNG, hitting the city roads in August. In the next phase, 300 low-floor, AC buses, most likely electric vehicles, will be rolled out.
 
 A senior GMCB official said the second phase was expected to start in 2019. “Bus manufacturers in the country had expressed their inability to provide low-floor, AC buses so soon (before August) and sought a year’s time, which means the first lot of air-conditioned buses would hit the city roads only in 2019,” he added.
 
 GMCBL has already identified 11 routes for the first phase — Gurugram bus stand to Manesar, Harsaru to Dundahera, Huda City Centre to Dharampuri, Ghata to Palam Vihar, Basai Chowk to Huda City Centre, Gurugram railway station to Huda City Centre, Gurugram bus stand to Farrukhnagar, Gurugram bus stand to Palam Vihar, Iffco Chowk to Badshapur, Gurugram bus stand to  , and Sector 56 to Dundahera.
 
 
