CHANDIGARH: The quantum of   in   leader and present   Devinder Singh   case was deferred on Monday due to Bharat Bandh. He also could not be produced before the court in view of Bharat Bandh. The jail authorities had requested the court that due to law and order situation, Babla could not produced in the court on Monday. The court deferred the sentence for Tuesday.

 Babla’s appeal was dismissed by the court in a graft case related to allotment of sheds at the Sector 26 Grain Market. The court of additional district and session judge Ashwani Kumar Mehta had dismissed his appeal and upheld lower court’s order and he was held guilty. 
 
 The matter dates back to August 2009 when the   had registered a case of cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy against Babla, a former chairman of the market committee, and Rakesh, president of the Arthiya Association of the Sector 26 Grain Market, for irregularities in the allotment of 69 platforms at the market. 
 
 He was booked under section 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 465 (punishment for forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record) of the IPC. Babla and other accused were booked on the basis of a complaint filed by Suraj Parkash Ahuja in the form of an affidavit. After the preliminary investigation, an FIR was registered on August 19, 2009. Babla was then chairman of the market committee, Chandigarh, under whose signatures certain allotments of place for sale of vegetables in the newly-constructed shed were made with the allegation of fabrication and tampering of record.
 
 It was stated that although there were 59 licensees, 10 ineligible persons were also accommodated during the auction held on July 24 when Babla was chairman of the market committee. Babla was booked after a shed, which had fallen, had to be re-allocated. Babla had surrendered on December 28, 2009, after a local court issued orders asking him to appear, otherwise, he would be declared a proclaimed offender. 
 
 
