CHANDIGARH: The post-exam notification released by the   stating that the mathematics paper of Class X and economics paper of Class XII will be re conducted has left schools, parents and students of the Tricity perturbed, with many parents and their wards expressing anguish. A handwritten question paper of Class XII economics and Class X mathematics had allegedly been circulating on WhatsApp a day before the examination. 

 Sidh Goyal, student of Class X of St John’s High School, has said that, “The CBSE is a national-level body and it is disappointing to see that they could not manage proper conduct of a simple Class X exam. Our batch was already under stress as we were the first one to prepare for the full syllabus after many years with the Class X board   being restarted. This news came as a shock as we will have to go through the grid once again.”
 
 “I think it is unfair for those who did not know about the leaked paper. It’s not our fault that the paper got leaked. It’s CBSE’s fault. Then why do we have to suffer,” said Swadha Sharma, Class X student of Hansraj Public School, Panchkula.   of the same school said that, “The paper was circulating for almost two days. They should have taken action earlier. First, the CBSE decides that Class X will have a board exam. They then make a U-turn and declare that Class X syllabus will be cut from the next session.”
 
 On the decision of a re-examination, mother of a student, Shaurya Mahajan, stated that: “I think it’s not good for our examination system. My son went with his friends a trip after appearing in the exams. I will call him and give him the message that mathematics exam is going to be reconducted. At the same time I am feeling glad that the CBSE is aware about miscreants who are trying to dilute the exam procedure through unfair means. I am fully confident that my son will give his best performance again.”
 
 Divyan Goal , a student of Class X of St John’s High School said that: “I am ready to face the challenge again. If you had revised mathematics thoroughly, then you can face the same challenge again easily. I think it’s a good move taken by the board because some miscreant wouldn’t score better if the paper is rescheduled again. I will miss four-five days of IIT coaching classes but I am ready to appear again for the mathematics exam.”
 
 Neeraj Sharma, father of  , said that, “This is very disappointing. Students are in a fix as their post exam plans have been ruined. Poor students are being victimized at the hands of a few miscreants and failure of the authorities concerned to control the damage.” Hriti, student of   said that, “It has been decided by the CBSE to reconduct the exam of economics due to paper leak. It is not fair for us as we will have to make those efforts again. It is total harassment of students. We want that this paper should not be reconducted.”
 
 Another student Kashish of Class XII of the same school stated that, “ It is duty of the CBSE to keep things confidential. It is total harassment of students who will have to reappear. We were already feeling relaxed after coming out of the exam mode.”
 
 BOX | Online petition
 
 Some city-based student have already started to sign an online petition in favour of no reconduct of examinations. 
 
 
