Ahmedabad: Gujarat cities have warmer nights compared to rural areas surrounding them. On the other hand, rural areas are more likely to be hit by heat waves during the day in summer when compared to cities. A new study by a team of researchers from Charotar University of Science and Technology (CUST), Anand, and the departments of civil engineering and chemical engineering of IIT-Mumbai has found that vanishing green cover in rural areas and exposed fields after harvest during the summer are some of the reasons for rising rural temperatures. Indeed, turns rural areas in Gujarat are hotter by 2-2.5° or 1-2° when compared to nearby urban zones during daytime. The study used Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) satellite data to develop the heat map.

 The research studied 83 cities in the country. These included Ahmedabad, Surat, Rajkot, Vadodara, Jamnagar, and Bhavnagar in Gujarat. The study found that between summer months of March and May, most cities are cooler than the rural or suburban regions around them. This finding contradicts the belief that cities are warmer due to the phenomenon called ‘urban heat island effect’. The findings were recently published in the journal “Nature”.
 
 Hiteshri Shastri of CUST said, “This study underscores why in rural areas the government should undertake intensive tree plantation drives and carry out heat action plans with greater intensity.”
 
 The reason for higher temperatures in rural areas during summer — according to researchers Shastri, Beas Barik, Subimal Ghosh, Chandra Venkataraman, and Pankaj Sadavarte — is the difference in urban and non-urban patterns of evapotranspiration, which is the process by which water is transferred from land to the atmosphere by transpiration in plants. During the hot pre-monsoon months, rural areas have lower evapotranspiration as they turn into arid regions after harvest. While evapotranspiration levels in cities are relatively higher owing to human consumption of water, the presence of trees, grass, and lakes. This difference leads to complex heat exchange and makes cities cooler during daytime in summer than their surrounding rural regions. Shastri says, “In central and western India, most cities radiate more heat at night when compared to their rural surroundings.” Shastri said that owing to higher wind velocities, rural areas cool faster during night, while in cities winds don’t have room to move faster. “Also concrete has higher specific heat values. which means it can store more heat and radiate heat during night,” Shastri said.
 
 
