TRICHY: The protest by   (TNSTC) workers hit the travelling public hard as people were forced to wait for hours to reach even nearby destinations. Since almost 85 per cent of the   fleets remain grounded within the depots, a few private bus operators had a field day fleecing the public. Passengers alleged that the private buses charged anything from 25 to 80 per cent above the actual ticket fare.

 M Gunavathi, a passenger from Madurai, said that she ended up shelling out Rs 110 for a ticket to reach   as against the Rs 80 during normal days. “Though I got a bus from Madurai to Trichy within a few minutes to reach my house in Srirangam, I have been waiting to find a city bus for more than 30 minutes before that. Private buses are running packed,” she added. Unlike other cities and towns, private city buses in Trichy are on par with the government buses in numbers. These were the buses that managed to ease the travails of the passengers to a certain extent. Besides private buses, even the passenger trains from Trichy connecting Mayiladuthurai, Thanjavur, Karaikal, Nagapattinam and   came in as a relief for the routine commuters and officegoers to reach their destinations. “Private city buses to   were fully packed, but fortunately, there were a few share autos that helped us move out of the central bus stand after waiting for more than 30 minutes,” S Paramesh, a student from  , said.
 
 Since a majority of the bays on the central bus stand were empty, private buses including omni buses operated services from within the central bus stand to Coimbatore, Madurai, and Chennai. “Yesterday’s ticket fare to reach Coimbatore from Trichy was priced at Rs 150 but today, owing to the demand, we have priced the fare at Rs 270,” a tout at the Coimbatore platform of central bus stand told TOI. Despite touts and private operators fleecing the passengers, there was no action from the transport department to restrain them either. This forced many people to suspect whether the transport departments was hand-in-glove with the private bus operators.
 
 Meanwhile, Karur district enjoyed comparatively more number of fleets in service for the public perhaps because it is home to transport minister M R Vijayabhaskar. Statistics given by the district administration showed that TNSTC operated 221 out of 247 bus services in Karur. In Ariyalur, school students and workers bound for the industrial units in the district from Trichy and Thanjavur, were the most-affected due to the TNSTC employees’ protest. With only 26 of the 188 services in Ariyalur and Jayankondam divisions of TNSTC plying on Friday, school students largely depended on the paltry private services.
 
 TNSTC sources said that hardly five per cent of the 490 government services connecting Thanjavur and Trichy operated on Friday. However, around 90 private bus services between Thanjavur and Trichy helped the passengers reach their destinations. People belonging to the rural pockets were left stranded as the private fleets which ran jam-packed refrained from taking a pit stop at rural bus stops.
 
 
 
 
 S.No
 
 Destinations
 
 Actual fare per ticket
 
 Fare collected on Friday
 
 1)
 
 Coimbatore
 
 Rs 150
 
 Rs 270
 
 2) 
 
 Madurai
 
 Rs 80
 
 Rs 110
 
 
