NEW DELHI: A   prepared by a Delhi government think tank has made serious allegations against the manner in which a   was prepared by   for construction and operation of the  .

 The   (DDC) had been directed by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in November 2017 to examine the Airport Express Line project. Kejriwal is also the chairman of  .
 
 The report pertains to the manner in which the PPP project was conceived, executed and administered. It alleges that changes were made in the project that were out of the scope of terms originally agreed upon, leading to a loss of Rs 4,700 crore to the public exchequer.
 
 Operations on the Airport Express Line, a PPP project between DMRC and concessionaire  . (DAEMPL), a subsidiary of Reliance Infrastructure, started in February 2011 after missing the Commonwealth Games 2010 deadline. While the civil work on the corridor was done by DMRC, the operations were handled by DAEMPL. The concession agreement was later terminated due to some technical issues in the corridor that had resulted in services getting stalled. DMRC took over the corridor in July 2013. An arbitration tribunal had directed DMRC to make a payment to DAEMPL and the decision was recently upheld by the Delhi high court which asked DMRC to pay more than Rs 3,500 cr to DAEMPL.
 
 The report alleges that DMRC distorted the model concession agreement prepared by the Planning Commission for PPP while drafting one for the Airport Express Line, resulting in safeguards provided in the model agreement getting eliminated. The report claims that while the model agreement provides for a cap on the termination liability of the government, this part was deleted by DMRC. It says that the termination payment to be made by DMRC would have been capped by the total project cost had DMRC gone for the original model agreement, and several hundred crores of rupees could have been saved.
 
 DDC has alleged that the concession agreement was not vetted by any law firm or ministry of legal affairs and not approved by the DMRC board either. It was approved by the then managing director of DMRC, E. Sreedharan, claims the report. It is, however, well known that Sreedharan was opposed to the PPP model right from the time it was mooted in 2007-08.
 
 Asked for its reaction to the allegations, a DMRC spokesperson said: “DMRC is not aware of any such inquiry on this issue and thus we are not in a position to comment on this issue.” A Reliance Infrastructure spokesperson too declined to comment.
 
 
