Home and away. Between these two words lies the wide chasm that must be bridged to establish true greatness in sport – any sport – but is particularly pronounced in Test cricket. Conditions – weather, pitches, et al – can vary drastically from country to country, and these imponderables can impose severe hardships on touring sides which, as history shows, only the best overcome.

 This is the daunting challenge   & Co face in 2018, beginning with the first Test at Cape Town today. In 26 years, India has won only two Tests in   but never a series, which puts the task ahead in perspective.
 
 It is not just the three Tests on this tour that will check India’s mettle. Mid-year comes a five-Test rubber against England in England and 2018 winds down with four Tests against Australia Down Under, where again India have never won a Test series.
 
 Each of these contests will ask tough questions of the players individually and collectively. Uninterrupted successes in the previous two years have put India as No 1 in the ICC Test rankings. But a majority of wins have come at home. Success away has come against struggling Sri Lanka and the West Indies who have slumped badly in the longest format for the past several years.
 
 The last Test India won outside the subcontinent or in the Caribbean was at Lord’s in 2014. But the series was lost badly, 1-3. Indeed, the last overseas series win came more than a decade ago, against England in 2007.
 
 To be fair, nowadays most teams have dominated at home and struggled abroad. Recently England, so good at home, has been soundly thrashed in the ongoing Ashes.
 
 Over the past few years Australia has lost badly to India, Pakistan and Sri Lanka in the subcontinent. South Africa, then ranked No 1, was decimated by India on their last visit here in 2015.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 Does the current Indian team have the wherewithal to rewrite an otherwise dismal overseas record and move away from the pack as it were? The answer is up in the air, of course, but there are enough indications to suggest that such expectation is not misplaced: and not merely because of the winning streak at home.
 
 There is deep experience. Barring KL Rahul and Jasprit Bumrah, all players have been around for 6-10 years (longer in first class), and played enough matches to make it count. There is abundant talent too, so much so that barring Virat Kohli, every player has serious competition for a place in the playing side. This pressure has helped improve performance.
 
 Paradoxically, with the BCCI in its bleakest phase, what with the judiciary having had to intervene to address issues of corruption and maladministration, Indian cricket has gone from strength to strength.
 
 This is reflected in Vidarbha’s maiden win in the Ranji Trophy this season and Gujarat’s the previous one, highlighting the depth and breadth of talent in the country.
 
 What’s abetted this is excellent infrastructure and facilities, academies, quality coaching, better sports medicine, nutrition, etc. All told, a robust system at work, at least where the game is concerned.
 
 The much-maligned IPL has played a key role too, the past decade throwing up players like Ashwin, Jadeja, Pandya, Bumrah – to name some – who made it to the Indian Test side. Prospects of livelihood – and fame – have stoked the ambition of youngsters in smaller towns and mofussil areas. Interestingly, this seems more evident where fast bowlers are concerned.
 
 For instance, Vidarbha’s key player was 24-year-old speedster Rajneesh Gurbani. Why, among fast bowlers touring South Africa currently, only Ishant Sharma is from a major centre, Delhi! This development has influenced a fascinating departure from time-held practice, shaken up the composition and balance of the team, and propped up hopes of doing well overseas now.
 
 For the first time, India’s bowling is not centred on spin. The lament that India’s attack always lacks intimidation is no longer relevant. The onus on batsmen now will not be on drawing matches, but giving enough runs for fast bowlers to exploit. There are six of them (including all-rounder Pandya), of fine variety who the team management hopes will fight fire with fire, claim early and many wickets to help win Tests abroad.
 
 At the core of the team’s campaign, however, is Kohli, as batsman and captain. Brattish when younger (you could contaminate your vocabulary by lip reading him!), he has learnt to channelise his natural aggression purposefully. He’s a brilliant batsman, the world’s best across formats. Personal excellence aside, as captain, Kohli has also shown he relishes responsibility. And not just on the field, but holistically.
 
 He’s taken fitness, desire and energy in fellow players to a different level by personal example. One can nitpick about Kohli’s tactical acumen, but not his commitment. He sets the agenda for the team and is in the forefront in dealings with the establishment too. I dare say, he sees himself as a custodian of Indian cricket and will be seeking a quantum leap this year to leave behind a magnificent legacy for posterity.
 
 If India wins even one of the three major Test series this year, it should retain the No 1 ranking. Two wins will mark the team as the best ever from India and all three as among the greatest ever in the sport. History beckons.
 
 
