NAGPUR: After freezing admissions of Central India Institute of Mass Communication’s (CIIMC),   has now prohibited its students from appearing in its examinations, thus wasting their entire academic year. NU cited CIIMC’s inability to conduct regular classes since last year that resulted in them not being able to attend 180 days in college, mandatory as per UGC norms.

 Vice-chancellor SP   assured the students NU would be accommodating them in other colleges before commencement of next academic session from June.
 
 A delegation of about 40 students of fashion designing and other courses, under NSUI activist Ajit Singh, met the VC on Monday with a request to allow them to appear in exams that have already commenced. They stated CIIMC’s owner Sunil   had collected exam fees and other charges from them and told them he had deposited those with NU Exam section. Mishra had also taken their original marksheets of Class X and XII during admissions and was now refusing to give them back.
 
 Kane clarified Mishra neither deposited their exam fees, nor the forms with NU. “We have already withdrawn Mishra’s authority of signing forms last month and therefore, he couldn’t send them with his signature. As college neither has any regular lecturer nor principal, who will sign their forms certifying 75% mandatory attendance? CIIMC has also not conducted classes since many months,” he said, while asserting students wouldn’t be allowed to appear in exam in violation of rules.
 
 Citing report of panel headed by retired industrial court judge BC Chandrikapure, the VC added NU had already frozen CIIMC’s admissions and would start its disaffiliation process soon. “The proposal would be first discussed in Board of   meeting and later put up before Academic Council for final decision. The college was granted affiliation till 2019-20 sessions earlier by NU.”
 
 TOI on December 8 reported how the other aggrieved CIIMC students had approached VC with a demand to lodge police complaint against Mishra, accusing him for not handing over transfer certificates (TCs) and not depositing their exam fees with NU. 
 
 
