HYDERABAD: If allegations doing the rounds are to be believed, almost half of the   (Doctor of Philosophy) holders working with Jawaharlal Nehru Technological  , Hyderabad (JNTU-H), affiliated colleges have ‘fake’ doctoral degrees from ‘fly-bynight’ universities.

 One of the main reasons for many faculty members opting for lesser known private or ‘fake’ universities for obtaining their   is because of the simple procedure involved in getting a seat and degree.
 
 Some of these universities allegedly have no doctoral boards or research supervisors and candidates are awarded a degree at the end of the stipulated time even without even having to submit a thesis. “A whopping 48% of faculty working in JNTU-H affiliated colleges did their PhDs from private or fake universities. While some of these universities are not recognized by  , others don’t even have a doctoral board or research supervisors to guide research scholars. Some candidates, in fact, pay money to get degree,” alleged M  , who worked as a professor in a private engineering college for over two decades.
 
 “It is really surprising how these faculty members have not been caught. They claim they are doing full-time PhDs in some part of the country and continue to work as faculty here. Some, in fact, have gone a step ahead and are claiming that they have a regular PhD from a foreign university, but it is surprising to find no entries in their passports.”
 
 Though private college managements agreed to the possibility of faculty armed with ‘fake’ PhDs working in various colleges in the state, they claimed the number is not that high. “Saying that 48% faculty members possess fake PhDs is an exaggeration. I am not saying all the candidates are genuine. There might be some 5-10% of those with fake degree working here and I am sure the situation will be the same across the country,” said K Ramdas, convenor,  .
 
 He said private colleges conduct a check when they are hiring a faculty member by calling up the mentioned university.
 
 “We see if the candidate actually went to that college or not and whether he/she has been awarded a degree. Apart from that, we don’t go into details about their facilities and faculty,” he added.
 
 JNTU officials, however, said they are not the competent authority to comment on the validity of certificates provided by other universities.
 
 TIMES VIEW: JNTU-H is a reputed institution of higher learning and is held in high esteem by thousands of students, parents and recruiters. JNTU authorities must take a serious view of the allegation of fake or substandard PhD degrees and order a thorough internal probe and refer the case to the police, if necessary. Only a strong disciplinary and penal action will instill confidence in students
 
