TNN

 Mumbai:   will take over as chairman of Hindustan   ( ), succeeding   who is set to retire from the post of non-executive chairman at the company’s forthcoming annual general meeting in June this year.
 
 Mehta, 57, who completes five years as CEO & MD in October this year, has got an extension of another five years by the board of the company. To ensure compliance with the new regulation based on the Kotak committee on corporate governance report, which Sebi has accepted, HUL said it will separate the two positions of chairman and managing director by April 2020.
 
 On Manwani’s retirement, Mehta said, “Harish leaves behind a legacy that few will be able to match. He has lived the values that make HUL such a great company. Through his passion, commitment and endless energy, he leaves a lasting impact on the business. I will personally miss his leadership and wise counsel.”
 
 Manwani, 64, has been the longest serving chairman of HUL. He took over as the non-executive chairman of the company in July 2005 and, during these 13 years, he oversaw a period of sustained growth, beating phases of slowdown in the industry, and helping the business to nearly triple in size.
 
 Manwani was the first Indian manager who rose to the COO level at Unilever, the parent company of HUL. As COO, a post he held for three years since 2011, Manwani’s key achievement was to establish and align the regional clusters across the world with a clear agenda of creating a better and more integrated go-to-market organisation.
 
 Around three years back, Manwani retired as COO of the global consumer products giant, but continued as non-executive chairman of the Indian subsidiary company. In an interview to TOI just before retirement as Unilever COO, Manwani said, “You may have a great first innings. But if you don’t declare the innings in time, you may not have a second innings. There are things that you want to achieve for which you want to give yourself time. If you get into it too early, you may not have the satisfaction from your first innings. Equally, if you are too late, you may not have the time.”
 
 Known for his oratory skills and exuberant personality, Manwani came up with a ‘4G sustainable growth model’ of competitive, consistent, profitable and responsible growth for businesses to thrive in a challenging environment. This model later became a strong focal point for HUL’s business strategy.
 
 As a manager and as a leader, Manwani is credited to have taken on global as well as local rivals with equal zeal, whether it was HUL’s skirmish with Colgate for market share in oral care or its battle with Nirma in detergents.
 
 An honours graduate from Mumbai university, Manwani holds a masters degree in management studies from Jamnalal Bajaj. He joined HUL as a management trainee in 1976 and was inducted to the board of HUL in 1995 as a director responsible for the personal products business. In 2005, he was appointed to the Unilever executive as president - Asia, Africa, Middle East, and the role later expanded to include Central and Eastern Europe. Given his rise within Unilever, Manwani has been a role model for HUL managers.
 
 Manwani recently took over chairmanship of the Indian School of Business. He is also the global executive adviser to private equity major Blackstone.
 
 With a market capitalisation of more than Rs 3 lakh crore, the Rs 35,000-crore maker of Lifebuoy soap and Lipton tea is among the top 10 companies on the BSE.
 
 
