Museums are envisioned as a community space where one can see their identity in the context of cultural continuity. Museums are accountable to the community within which they function and hence must be guided by the needs and expectations of its visitors, both existing and potential, the wider community and stakeholders in setting their objectives. And among the museum’s important stakeholders are its own employees. As a growing sector, museums and heritage institutions are in constant need of fresh supply of talent, ideas and a passion to make a difference in the society. 

 As an eight year old reading about the long lost civilisations of Harappa in my history textbook for the first time, my fascination with history and archaeology was instantaneous. My career path into museums was defined by some useful guidance from practising museologists, who directed my educational pursuits I worked in a   in the UK before returning to India to join  , where I have been leading the education department for the last seven years.
 
 The   is the custodian of the collection; it’s his job to ensure that objects are documented, researched, cared for and appropriately and effectively displayed. Once an object comes to the museum’s collection, the curators enters its details into the Museum's records (called accessioning), assesses its condition and stores it carefully or puts it on display as per requirement. If the object is in a delicate condition, the curator refers to the  , who conducts in-depth analysis of the object and attempts to arrest further deterioration and restores it to the best condition. An educator is the connect between visitors and objects. Museums have become more visitor-centric and therefore, it is important that the objects are effectively communicated to the visitor. He translates the objects’ stories into various programmes —workshops, gallery talks and tours, lectures, trails and treasure hunts that makes learning fun for visitors and encourages dialogue with the object.
 
 Although some basic functions of the museum are constant, no two days are alike. The daily work for the curator can involve research on new exhibitions, object verification in the museum stores, working on documentation records, cleaning of cases in the galleries and changing exhibits, co-ordinating with designers, electrical consultants and architects for new galleries or exhibitions.
 
 Usually for a career in museums, it is ideal to pursue a master’s degree or post-graduate diploma in museology or   or   or  . Master’s in museology can be done in the National Museum Institute, New Delhi; Maharaja Sayajirao University, Baroda; or Kolkata University. The CSMVS museum also offers a post-graduate diploma in museology and conservation, which is a year-long course. This course if affiliated to the Mumbai University. It is recommended to have a specialisation in your subject first. You can of course pursue the course after graduation, but it is best to complete a post-grad before going in for a Museology course.
 
 In terms of workforce, museums have started involving experts from specialized fields to address their management, collection care, education and facilities, apart from the regular gallery maintenance, object maintenance, educational activities. Given the accountability that a curator has towards the Museum collection, which is priceless the salaries definitely have scope for improvement—the pay package in museums may not compare with corporate pay packages as of today, but it is respectable. Having said that, the field is up and coming, with the right kind of incentives and support from government, corporates and public, there is growing consciousness about heritage and culture and growing demand for jobs. As educators or programming managers, one also has to be prepared for a lot of weekend work!
 
 One needs to remember that museums are essentially not for profit and have implicit educational value. One needs to be really passionate about working in this field. Along with the pay, the satisfaction of making a difference to people’s lives is a wonderful incentive.
 
 
