Nagpur: In a year, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) will be using solar power for street lights, water pumping, treatment plants, administrative buildings, hospitals, public health centres, libraries and community among others. By doing so, it will be saving Rs60 lakhs of its over Rs100 crore annual power bill. The NMC electric department has floated expression of interest inviting private agencies for execution of the project in all 10 zones. The process of issuing work orders and handing over sites is likely to take four months.  The private companies will have to install the solar panels and related infrastructure, and generate power within eight months. They will have to operate and maintain the system for 20 years. An NMC official told TOI that the estimated cost of setting up the system is around Rs300 crore. “The private companies will have to use their own money to set up the systems. The NMC will pay them after they quote a rate,” he said. The official added that the “system will be set up under MSEDCL’s net metering and as well as the open access system”.  Under the project, the NMC will generate 24,000kW (20MW) solar power. There are around 5,000 connections from where the NMC draws power from the MSEDCL. Net metering system will be set up where consumption is 800kW or below. The rest of the connections will be explored in open access. The major highlight of the project will be setting up of systems for street lights for which there are around 2,300 connections/meters. The connections will now be brought down to 1,500. The NMC will install solar panels 10 metres above the road parallel to street light poles. A majority of the panels will come up on road-dividers and some will be along the roads. Panels will also be set up on the roofs of its properties and next to open spaces like water treatment plants, pumping stations, administrative offices, hospitals, libraries and community halls. Under the central government’s Model Solar City Project, the NMC had installed solar power systems at its main administrative building and four zone offices. This pilot project received a big success. But, the government had revised norms of the project. Now, the NMC is taking up the project on its own.