BV.Shivashankar 

 Bengaluru: Left with just about three months of the fiscal year, the excise department is facing a steep revenue target and the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s ( ) crackdown on rooftop pubs has come as major hurdle, officials from the department said.
 
 The department, which is still recovering from the highway ban that saw closure of some 680 liquor vends in the city before their licences were renewed in August, has been a dealt a fresh blow by the BBMP’s move, which may result in the closure of 67 pubs in Bengaluru.
 
 “Revenue is a concern, but if the pubs are violating safety norms, then the authorities are left with no choice but to shut them down. We expect pub owners to convince the Palike that they are complying with the norms or will relocate their business,” excise commissioner   said.
 
 Given the revenue shortfall from other sources, especially commercial taxes in the GST regime, the state government is looking at liquor sales to narrow the revenue gap as alcohol has been kept out of the ambit of the new tax system. Tasked with mopping up Rs 18,050 crore, the excise department has managed to collect Rs 13,330 crore as on January 5 and has to raise at least Rs 4,720 crore before March 31. 
 
 While the BBMP has already issued closure notices to 67 rooftop bars so far, officials from the agency said they would launch the second round of the drive on Monday and at least 50 pubs are expected to receive closure notices.
 
 “We’ve decided not to go soft on the violators as it is a matter of fire safety apart from the other licensing issues. We will see to it that the pubs are closed at any cost,” said  , chairman of the BBMP standing committee on health.
 
 Pub owners, however, are crying foul that various agencies, including BBMP and the fire department, had issued due clearances after strict spot inspections, following which they obtained liquor licences from the excise department. They have moved the high court against the clampdown.
 
 “The question is whether these agencies are contradicting their own decision? After issuing the licence, they are now visiting the establishments to question them. How can they ask them to close when the licences are valid,” said Vinay Venugopal, counsel to Open Box, a bar and restaurant on St Mark’s Road, which has petitioned the high court.
 
 Karunkar Hegade, vice-president of Federation of Wine Merchants’ Associations of Karnataka, said some more pub owners are planning to knovk on the court’s door.
 
 Clarifying that trade licences of the pubs had not been cancelled, Pasha said the BBMP was just focusing on cracking down on violations and ensuring safety.
 
 “It is true that pub owners have obtained no-objection certificates from the competent authorities, but the issue is that many of them have violated the norms after getting the certificates. For instance, a pub owner has got permission to operate on the third floor of the building, but he has extended the business to the fourth floor, which is illegal,” said Pasha.
 
 Hearing the petition on Friday, Justice Vineet Kothari had issued an oral order to BBMP to submit a comprehensive report on all eviction notices by Wednesday, when the court will take up the matter for hearing again.
 
 
