KOLKATA: The enteric outbreak claimed its first victim on Wednesday with the death of 33-year-old Biswajit Das, who had come down to   about two weeks ago for a wedding.

 His family alleged Das would have survived had the authorities of Bagha Jatin State   admitted him, instead of treating him and letting him go, only for them to return to the hospital and being referred elsewhere in the evening.
 
 Biswajit, a resident of   in North 24-Parganas, had come down to Kolkata with his family on February 2 to attend awedding. Though the ceremony got over on February 7, they decided to stay on for another week to visit relatives and friends. On hindsight, this decision proved fatal: he was one of several taken ill after consuming KMC-supplied water.
 
  
 
 
 
 The enteric outbreak — which some doctors are calling an epidemic — and, particularly, Biswajit’s death, has exposed the local hospital’s inadequacy to handle sudden rush of patients.
 
 Since Friday, the hospital has had to deal with more than 1,800 patients, far more than the number of similar patients it had handled in the entire year prior to this. While most patients had been treated and discharged without admission, three critical patients had been sent to the ID Hospital.
 
 “Biswajit had been suffering from abdominal cramps since Tuesday evening and had loose motion all night,” said Ranjit, a relative. “We brought him to the emergency unit around 11am, where he was given two injections and sent back. But his condition did not improve. The diarrhoea left him extremely weak. We took him to the hospital again around 4pm. The doctors realized his condition was serious and referred him to MR Bangur. He died on the way.”
 
 A doctor said Biswajit was extremely dehydrated because of continuous loss of body fluid. “Most patients responded to treatment as they walked in early,” said a doctor. In severe cases, like Biswajit’s, patients are unable to urinate, and there is cramping in the limbs. Thereafter, blood pressure drops, breathing becomes laboured and rapid, and the pulse weakens. These are all signs that the patient is sinking. Biswajit displayed several of these symptoms.
 
 Biswajit’s wife Tumpa, who has seven-year-old twins and is four months pregnant, has been numbed by the death. Brother Surojit was livid at KMC and the hospital. “The KMC should have warned people about the water. The hospital should also have said it was unable to treat him and referred him to another facility this morning, instead of doing so in the evening when his condition deteriorated,” he fumed. He also wondered whether his brother’s death would be compensated, as it involved “negligence” of two government institutions.
 
 Local councillor Rinku Naskar said she would take up the issue at the KMC headquarters. She said the hospital was illequipped to handle an outbreak of this proportion. “The health department and KMC should issue a clear treatment protocol where the patients should be taken,” she said.
 
