 is known for the powerful character roles he has played in multiple Bollywood movies — prominent among them are   (2013), Bhoomi and Baadshaho (2017). He has also been a well-known face on the small screen since the last 13 years. And now, for the first time, the actor has become a part of a music video. In a candid chat with BT, he talks about his connect with music.

 
 
 My music video is special. It is a proper filmi story, where I play a secret agent and have to juggle between being an agent and a white-collared person. It is about love, sacrifice, being helpless at certain times during certain situations, losing loved ones and generally, the story of life. Also, I love the way   has sung the song.
 
 
 
 Music is a part of my family — my mother used to sing and I used to sing, too, during my college days for cultural functions. I believe that I understand music. 
 
 
 
 I belong to a sports background and have been very active. I love doing action sequences. When I was narrated the story of the video, I was like, ‘Wow! the video has action as well.’ We got proper time to shoot and I got a lot time to prepare. The action director of this music video is an old colleague. He started his career when I was doing TV and I used to always tell him that he was good and hoped he started off individually soon. Action is always fun for me, and I have been doing it in many films, so, this video was like homeground.
 
 
 
 The video’s director,  , the choreographer, the songwriter, music director Sandeep Gosswami and I have all known each other for almost 15 years now. Naushad and I had worked together eight to ten years back. This song has been a reunion of sorts.
 
 
 
 When I came to Mumbai, I was very new to the way the industry works. Also, we, people of my age, have grown up seein g music videos featuring the likes of Milind Soman, Marc Robinson and  . I come from a very small town, so obviously there was no aspiration to do a music video, but I am an actor and any form of acting is good. I hadn’t played a lead in a music video but did a miniscule role in one when I came here in 2003.
 
 
 
 A music video is a completely different arena altogether. Yes, it is a part of acting, of presentation, of ‘we can also do this kinda thing’, yet it’s different. While people tell me that I've done it all — be it acting in Hindi, Marathi or South Indian movies, dubbing, participating in reality shows — this was the only thing pending. I've finally done this, too!
 
 
 
 I love all kinds of music — not just Sufi or romantic. If I am at a party, I love dancing to all the dhinchak songs, if I am driving, I love those road-trip movie tracks like Dil Chahta Hai or   numbers. If I am driving with my wife, then we love listening to romantic songs. I am game for all kinds of good music. From the current lot — Dil Diyan Gallan Song (Tiger Zinda Hai) is among my favourites.
 
 
 
 The Bollywood music scene has been ever changing, and now, it is changing even faster. But one thing is for sure — old is gold. We still remember the lyrics of songs from the 60’s, 70’s and 80’s. Today’s songs maybe big hits but they don’t have a great recall value. That does not mean that there are no beautiful songs coming, but there is only so much music being made. 
 
