THANE: A gold medal winning doctor who also taught at a medical college has been arrested for pocketing the staggering sum of Rs 1,000 crore by cheating people with the promise of lucrative investment schemes.

 Dr PPR   (63) used to set up fly-by-night companies, lure investors with advertisements, and then disappear with their money. When he did this in Chhattisgarh in 2015 for alarge sum, the police went in pursuit of him in earnest. On the run for about two years, he was picked up recently from Thane station.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 The Chhattisgarh police had approached the Thane police as they suspected that Sethi was operating from the Thane-Bhiwandi belt. “Upon carrying a thorough search and sourcing information from informers, we found that he lived in a 1 lakh sq ft godown in Jogeshwari (west). The godown had heavy machinery, which Sethi used to install to convince investors about his ‘firm’,” said senior inspector Nitin Thakre. After shutting shop at a particular place upon realizing his objectives, he would remove the machinery and disappear, only to repeat the fraud somewhere else.
 
 Sethi started his career in crime by setting up three companies—Jag Polymers, Jio Shine Mines & Metals, and Milani Techno Engineering. He promised would-be investors that his business would double their amounts. Over 230 people fell for his clams and invested Rs 35-40 lakh, only to realise eventually that they had been duped. “He used to make his servants directors of his companies,” said superintendent of police   from Mahasamund, Chhattisgarh. Ultimately, a case was registered against him there.
 
 Sethi set up several ‘companies’ across the country, including in Assam, Tripura, Orrisa,  , Uttar Pradesh (especially in Noida), and  . “We believe he siphoned off over Rs 1,000 crore from thousands of investors,” said a police officer from the Thane crime branch. “We are still investigating the extent of his activities. We believe the scale of his fraud to be bigger than currently known.”
 
 An officer said Sethi is also wanted by the   in a few cases.
 
