TRICHY: With an objective to prevent honour killings recurring in the state, a festival will be held in   on February 11 to support youths who face opposition in marrying outside their castes.

 The day-long event would also serve as a platform for families in search for potential brides and grooms and will also be a get together event for families who married outside their castes to share their stories.
 
 Organised by the   Inter Caste Families Welfare Association, the event has been scheduled to be held at   in   panchayat, in the outskirts of the city, on the Sunday ahead of Valentine's Day. 
 
 Stating that the state has been setting a bad example in the last few years when it came to inter-caste marriages, the organisers aimed to shed light on eradicating caste discrimination with the help of the programme. “If conferences held by caste-based political parties are for boasting their pride, on the contrary, the inter-caste marriage festival at Trichy would serve as a platform to achieve a caste-free society. Families looking for brides and grooms for their kith and kin would also participate in the festival to find a suitable match without considering the caste,”  , coordinator of Tamil Nadu Inter Caste Families Welfare Association, told TOI.
 
 
 
 
 
 Organisers said that the festival is being held for last seven years and Trichy was said to be chosen as the venue owing to its geographical significance, as participants from any part of the state can reach the venue easily.
 
 Participants looking for a match would be introduced among the gathering, following which interested families will approach them. “Last year, about 11 inter-caste marriages were held after the festival. Not just inter-caste weddings, even the couples who married outside their caste will share their experience and stigmas they faced,” Gunasekar added. 
 
 The festival would also have speakers from various outfits pitching in for social equality and to end violence against inter-caste marriages legally. “We would provide support and guidance for inter-caste couples if they face resistance from families during the festival. The couple should have attained the legal age for marriage, for which their certificates would be examined,” R Tamil Sudar, another organiser of the event said. 
 
 
