JODHPUR: Hundreds of   Khan converged at the Jodhpur central jail on Saturday for a glimpse of the celluloid deity after he was granted bail by the sessions court. They shouted slogans, sang songs, burst crackers and showered flower petals on his pictures outside the jail amid strong police presence.

 Both boys and girls assembled at the main gate of the jail in groups and took up positions where they felt they could best have a glimpse of the star.
 
 Slogans such as “Salman Khan Zindabad’ and “Salman tum sangharsh karo hum tumhare saath hain” rendered the air as the crowd, carrying posters and pictures of their star, expressed their happiness.
 
 “We are happy today that after a three-day ordeal our Dabangg is coming out of jail. He already has enough of it and deserved to be released,” said his fan  , a student.
 
 Near the main gate of the jail a group of girls were spotted singing chartbusters from Salman’s films and referred to him by the various characters played by him such as Radhe Bhaiyya, Bhajrangi Bhaijaan and Tiger.
 
 Many parents too accompanied their children to catch a glimpse of Salman. But they were disappointed as his car zoomed past them escorted by the police.
 
 A diehard Salman fan, a cable operator from Patna, Raju Kumar, landed in Jodhpur on Saturday morning in anticipation of seeing his hero. “I have come all the way from Patna and was sure that Salman would get the bail,” he said, adding that it was this confidence that made him fly to Jodhpur.
 
 The 28-year-old is determined not to marry until his star gets married. “I consider him my brother and like him I will not marry until he does so,” he said.
 
 Many fans went on bursting crackers even after Salman left the jail for airport.
 
 Police had to call in more force to control the crowd and had to charge a number of times to keep them away from the jail.
 
 But when Salman’s car reached the gate of the jail, they broke through the police barriers. A lucky few caught a glimpse of him with his bodyguard Shera sitting beside him.
 
 
