Vadodara/ Anand: Dr CL Patel, the third chairman of Charutar Vidya Mandal (CVM) – the oldest, richest and biggest educational trust of Central Gujarat - died on Sunday morning after prolonged illness. 

 Patel, the 83-year-old veteran academician was in virtual control of the education sector in education hub Vallabh Vidyanagar for a good over two decades. He had also headed the Federation of Self Financed Technical Institutes of Gujarat.
 
 It was only in February this year that Patel had lost CVM chairmanship, his first defeat in a poll battle against present chairman Bhikhu Patel. 
 
 The family members said that the octogenarian, who had suffered severe cardiac arrest and later kidney infection, had stopped consuming food for the last one week. He died of multiple organ failure in the morning.
 
 A mechanical engineer from Gujarat’s oldest – BVM engineering college – Patel’s annual trips to the US and UK, where his family of two sons and four daughters is based, resulted in dollars and pounds trickling in from NRIs, especially the Gujarati diaspora, at the CVM-managed educational institutes in Vallabh Vidyanagar. 
 
 CVM manages around 50 educational institutes starting from kindergarten to post-graduate level and research institutes in Vallabh Vidyanagar and satellite township New Vallabh Vidyanagar. In fact, for 24 years when he served as CVM, Patel did not take home a single penny as salary. 
 
 “When he took over as chairman in March 1994, CVM was under a debt of Rs 2.5 crore. But he started raising money by undertaking annual trips to raise donations. He would not even claim any travel expense from the trust for this. In all these years, he made more than 30 trips to the US and the UK but did not ask for a single penny from the trust. Now, asset values of institutes which he build has grown and he has left behind close to Rs 300 crore as fixed deposit for CVM,” said Shailesh Patel. 
 
 Dr CL, who was a fan of Dev Anand’s hairdo during his college days, was mostly seen in white dress since the time he joined the erstwhile Gujarat Electricity Board. He left this job at the age of 45 and became the third chairman of CVM after Vallabh Vidyanagar’s founder Bhaikaka (Bhailalbhai Patel) and former union finance secretary Dr H M Patel. 
 
 Bhaikaka, who with the inspiration of Sardar Patel had laid foundation of the education town had served as CVM’s founder chairman between 1947 and 1958.
 
 “Dr C L Patel always provided his invaluable guidance and contributed a lot to the development of CVM which was founded with inspiration of Sardar Patel and flourished under the leadership of founder Bhaikaka, Bhikhabhai Patel and Dr H M Patel. Dr C L Patel will always be remembered for gifting new Vallabh Vidyanagar to the residents of Charotar. May his soul rest in peace,” said CVM’s current chairman Bhikhu Patel.
 
 Pledged body donation 28 years ago
 
 Vadodara: As per Dr CL Patel’s wish, his body will be donated to the GJ Patel Ayurvedic College at New Vallabh Vidyanagar. His body will be kept at the college for people to pay homage between 5 and 6 pm on Monday. “It was before 28 years that he had given me a signed affidavit expressing his wish to donate his body. On Sunday, we donated his eyes to the Karamsad Medical College and after the public homage on Monday, his entire body will be donated to the Ayurvedic college which he had nurtured as CVM chairman,” Patel’s US-based son Shailesh Patel told TOI. 
 
 
