GHAZIABAD: The federation of apartment owners’ association has decided to   over 65 high-definition CCTV cameras at strategic locations in Indirapuram, Vaishali and Vasundhara and set up a control room for monitoring footage.

 
 
 The initiative has been planned against the backdrop of several cases of robbery and snatching reported from these areas in the recent past. 
 
 A meeting of the local police, citizen volunteers and the federation members was held on Sunday evening to discuss how the project can be implemented.
 
 Alok Kumar, president of the federation, said: “Over 20 apartment owners’ associations that are members of the federation have pledged support and will financially contribute as well. We are also involving private firms that can be part of this project. It will help in curbing cases of loot and snatching as well as help the police in identifying the miscreants involved in such activities.”
 
 Kumar said that during the meeting, the delegates had come up with the suggestion to set up the control room at Indirapuram police station itself as that will help the cops to keep tabs round the clock. 
 
 The cost of a single night-vision camera is estimated to be around Rs 35,000- Rs 40,000. The entire project is expected to cost around Rs 30-35 lakh, besides monthly expenditure on maintenance.
 
 Kumar said that in the initial phase, the cameras would be installed in Indirapuram only. The other areas would be covered in subsequent phases.
 
 Ravi Kumar, circle officer (Indirapuram), said: “It is a good initiative from the citizen’s body. The police will extend full support in making the move a success. It will no doubt help to us to control crime.”
 
 A similar initiative had been taken by the Kaushambi Apartments RWAs in which 32 cameras were installed by the   buyers. Vinay Mittal, president of KARWA, said: “The project has been quite successful and helped police in cracking several criminal cases. Instead of setting up a control room, we have clustered three-four cameras in one group and collect its feed at the nearest building. In this way, we have formed nine such clusters.”
 
 Kumar said the federation would try and integrate the two services. 
 
 In addition to the installation of CCTV cameras, discussions were also held on increasing the number of check-posts and barricades in the area.
 
 Police have also instructed the AOAs to designate parking space for guest visitors so that they don’t park their vehicles along roads.
 
 
