NEW DELHI: The Opposition used the allegations made by four senior-most   judges against Chief Justice of India Dipak Misra to demand a cleanup of the judiciary and to launch an attack on the ruling party. 

 Endorsing the judges’ demand for protecting the SC to safeguard democracy, the Left,  ,   and Gujarat legislator Jignesh Mevani came out in support of the comments made by the SC judges. 
 
 The CPM politburo said the judges had raised important issues which had a bearing on the institution of the SC. “The integrity and independence of the judiciary, particularly the SC, is a vital pillar of the Constitution and non-negotiable. It is to be hoped that all such issues will be resolved keeping in mind the principles of democratic functioning and transparency regarding the highest court of the land,” it said. 
 
 West Bengal CM and Trinamool Congress chief   voiced her “anguish” over the happenings and said the development made people sad. She also said the “extreme interference” of the Centre in the judiciary’s functioning was “dangerous” for democracy. 
 
 “We are deeply anguished with the developments about the Supreme Court. What we are getting from the statement of the four senior judges of Supreme Court about the affairs of the court makes us really sad as citizens,” Banerjee said in a statement. “Judiciary and the media are the pillars of democracy. Extreme interference of central government with judiciary is dangerous for democracy,” she added.
 
 Samajwadi Party president  , on the other hand, made a more nuanced comment. Tweeting an unattributed poem soon after the controversy broke, Akhilesh made an oblique reference to the judges as statues carrying the scales of justice, who rarely spoke outside of their courtrooms, but had finally found a voice to articulate the problems within. He said, “Lohe ke ped harey honge, tu gaan prem ke gaata chal, nam hogi ye mitti zaroor, aasoon ke kan barsaata chal. Bejaan yantr-vicharit goongi, moortiyan ek din bolengi, moonh khol khol sabke bheetar shilpi, tu jeebh bithata chal.”
 
 Freshly-minted Gujarat MLA and Dalit leader Jignesh Mevani hit out against the voices that questioned the claims made by the SC judges. “If these four judges had ruled in favour of triple talaq or Ram mandir, ‘bhakts’ and media would have made demi-gods of them. But these judges did not do that. They exposed the corruption in judiciary, and said how Modi repressed democracy. How will their character assassination not happen?” he tweeted. 
 
 
