PUNE: The Bombay high court has granted bail to two accused in the murder of money lender Dattatreya  . The bench observed that “the incident appears to have been blown out of proportion” by the complainant and one of the eye-witnesses. 

 Nine accused were chargesheeted in the murder case following an FIR lodged by the victim’s son, Shubham, who, along with friend Rohan Panchal witnessed the assault on the night of July 14, 2016, at Bharatmatanagar in Dighi. Currently, charges are being framed before a sessions court here. Phuge had shot to prominence for wearing a gold shirt weighing 3.5kg and worth Rs 1.27 crore. 
 
 In the chargesheet filed on October 10, 2016, Shubham and Rohan named the assailants. Mahesh Suryawanshi, another eyewitness, had told police that only main accused Atul Mohite and co-accused Shaukat Attar, Sushant alias Babu Pawar and   were seen assaulting Phuge. 
 
 Two other co-accused Prem alias Pramod Santaram Dholpuriya and   Suryakant Walake moved separate bail pleas arguing that the only role ascribed to Shailesh is that he was assaulting Phuge and that Dholpuriya was not at the scene. 
 
 Lawyer  , who represented Dholpuriya said, “We brought to the court’s notice the contradictions in the versions of the complainant and one of the eyewitnesses.”
 
 The bench of Justice Sadhana Jadhav observed, “Upon considering the investigation papers, more particularly the statement of Mahesh Suryawanshi and other family members of the deceased, it appears that the incident has been blown out of proportion by the complainant and Rohan Panchal. It appears that the motive for assault was that the deceased was running ‘Bishi Chit Fund’. He owed huge amounts to people. At the relevant time Atul Mohite was in need of money. He had demanded the same. He was last seen in the company of the deceased. He was accompanied by Shaukat Attar, Sushant Pawar and Tushar Jadhav.”
 
 The bench added that there were all nine accused and the first informant (Shubham) had seen all of them assaulting his father specifically said they fled the spot after the assault. “Within no time the police had reached there. However, they could not trace any of the accused in the nearby area,” it added.
 
 
