NOIDA: Violating a traffic rule on Sector 57 intersection,   expressway,   or at the sectors 31/25 intersection may prove costly for the offenders as the officer issuing the challan will be able to view his previous violations as well through a new mobile app. 

 Traffic police are trying to link their newly launched   mobile application with the Vahan database of   ( ) – the national register of the vehicles and their driving licences so that an e-challan generated at any of these roads can show the previous history of the violator. 
 
 The force has requested the NIC for a go-ahead to link their Vahan database with the e-challan system. While officers say they have received a positive response from the NIC, the task is not simple as challan-generation at all these intersections and roads are being handled by separate softwares.
 
 SP (traffic) Anil Jha told TOI that the integration project will be complete “soon”.
 
 “If the e-challan system is linked with Vahan database, an officer issuing the challan will be able to view the previous violations of a vehicle user when he commits another violation,” he said.
 
 However, as reported by TOI on April 23, most traffic police head constables (promoted), head constables, traffic sub-inspectors and traffic inspectors, are not well-versed with the e-challan system and hence, training would be required on a large scale for using the integrated e-challan system.
 
 Further, the e-challan system will have to be introduced at the other roads including the elevated road, Sector 57 intersection and Sector 31/25 intersections and Noida-Greater Noida Expressway.
 
 As of now, four cameras equipped with automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) system have been installed on the elevated road to check speeding on the 4.8 km-long elevated road.
 
 Speeding on the Noida-Greater Noida expressway is being monitored by Highway Speed Management System (HTMS) at the traffic management centre. Automatic challans are being issued to those caught speeding on the Yamuna Expressway near Jewar toll plaza.
 
 
