PITHORAGARH:  , a public organisation opposing the proposed Pancheshwar hydropower dam between India and Nepal on the   river, wrote to the cabinet sub-committee, appealing that the survey for preparing a detailed project report (DPR) of the Pancheshwar dam be done by an independent body, instead of the government company  . The organization happens to be a public sector undertaking under the ministry of water resources, river development and Ganga rejuvenation.
 
  
  
  “It is a matter of conflict of interest. The project-proponent company is an undertaking of the government and is not likely to go against decisions taken by it regarding the project,"  , convener, Mahakali Ki Awaz, told TOI.
  
  
  
  “In such a situation, the company would ignore any negative fact that emerges during environmental and social assessment. It is a matter of concern for local communities and the environment," he added.
  
  
  
  The letter from the organization also accuses Wepcos of “not doing any concrete survey to prepare the DPR and environmental impact assessment (EIA) of the dam,” and says that the company had used wrong facts (including wrong origins of rivers and incorrect populations of the villages that would be affected by the project) in its survey.
  
  
  
  Khadayat also said, “The Cabinet sub-committee had itself pointed out these flaws in Wepco’s DPR in a meeting last month and suggested that they remove them. Before that, the forest department had also raised 50 objections to the DPR. It clearly shows the negligence of Wapcos and the fact that the DPR and the EIA had been prepared with an aerial survey only."
  
  
  
  
  The Pancheshwar dam, which is expected to submerge around 134 villages in the area, had been mired in protests for some time now. On January 27, taxi owners had protested against the project in Jhulaghat in Pithoragarh, saying it would block the area they drove their vehicles in. Last year also, people had protested, saying they had not been consulted in the making of the project.
