GURUGRAM: After a seven-year delay, the IMT   is finally complete. One carriageway of the 800-metre   — Delhi to Jaipur side — was opened for traffic trials on Wednesday. The other carriageway will be thrown open to the public in the next two weeks.

 “We have opened the   flyover’s Delhi to Jaipur side on trial basis. Within the next two weeks, the flyover from Jaipur to Delhi side will be opened. The flyover has three lanes on each side,” NN Giri, NHAI’s project director (Jaipur), told TOI.
 
 Work on this project started in 2009 and it was supposed to be completed in 2011. But it took nearly six years for   in getting the forest clearance for the project. The forest department gave its approval only in 2015.
 
 “The structure of the flyover was laid in 2011. The problem came when we were making the approach road of the flyover and we needed a service road to complete the project. The forest department was not giving clearance for the service road though we had applied for it in 2009,” said Giri.
 
 And after the forest clearance came in 2015, following intervention from PMO, the project faced issues of funds that had stalled work for some time. The work on the IMT Manesar flyover resumed in November 2017. The project was said to be completed by March 2018, but due to some technical delays, it could be opened on trial basis only on May 9. The cost of this flyover comes to around Rs 30 crore.
 
 Once the IMT Manesar flyover is fully operational, NHAI will start work on the elevated highway, which will be around 1.5km long. It will start from the end point of the flyover and go up to the   camp in Manesar, officials said.
 
 The project was launched in 2009 but soon hit a land acquisition hurdle. In July 2015, Union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari gave his nod to the construction of the flyover from   to the NSG camp, but the project failed to take off. Irked by the delay, villagers sat on a hunger strike for six days this year, demanding construction of the flyover to begin soon.
 
 “The proposed elevated road will help motorists bypass the congested Manesar market. The detailed project report on the elevated road will be ready in the next 10 days,” added Giri.
 
 
