The summer holidays are here and kids in the city are enrolling for  s that teach pottery,  , swimming, table manners, making gliding robot toys, and of course, the all-time favourite activities – music, dancing and painting. Several summer camps in   are offering a variety of creative activities for kids, making parents glad that their children are acquiring new skills while having fun at the camps.
 
 
 Learning science, through hands-on experiments, not only makes it easy for students to understand the concepts but also makes learning fun. Prawal Pratap Singh, a 23-year-old   and Science teacher at Kreative Korner Activity School, says, “In my class, kids perform various experiments that help them learn basic scientific laws like how light and sound travel, how day and night occur and more. Such classes help students understand the basic concepts and they do all this while they are enjoying themselves with their peers.”
 
 He adds, “I also organise sessions on Robotics where we teach different engineering and mathematical concepts to the kids. The kids learn to make gliding robot toys, cars and aeroplanes in the class. Initially, I thought that the kids are too young and it will be difficult for them to learn this technique, but seeing their inquisitiveness, I decided to go ahead with this session. My students are really smart. They are so young but they already know how lift sensors work and the whole functioning of a motor.”
 
  
  Children learn to make gliding robot cars
 
  
  Science geek!
 
 
 With many reality shows organising auditions in Doon, many kids have started taking a keen interest in acting and are taking up theatre classes. Deepank, a drama teacher at Seeds Activity School, says, “These classes are the best way for kids to learn how to express different emotions on the stage. They take part in storytelling and different speech therapy sessions, including reading activities where they improve their Hindi diction. We make them understand how the camera works and how they need to perform in front of it. We also give them small dialogues and then ask them to act a scene. At the end of the summer session, we will organise a play where the kids will perform in front of an audience.” 
 
  
  LIGHT, CAMERA, ACTION: Children at an acting class
 
 
 Parents are also enrolling their students for grooming and personality development classes. Teacher Aditi Thapa at  , says, “It is their age to learn. At the classes, we teach them table manners, sitting postures, how to socialise and other basic etiquettes. We teach them how they should conduct themselves on different occasions, how they should dress up, among other things.”
 
 
 For most kids, playing with mud is always an exciting prospect, but they are often discouraged by parents from doing so. But at this camp, children get to play with clay – and here, not only are they enjoying themselves but they are also learning to create art works. Ritika, who conducts the clay and pottery class at Kreative Korner Activity School, says, “The pottery and clay sessions are always great fun for kids and they enjoy these classes the most. I let them play freely with the plasteline clay and ask them to make anything that they wish to. They make shapes of different animals, birds and more. In the next level, we introduce the kids to the pottery wheel. They make different shaped pots and flower vases and then they paint them. The pots make for a beautiful home decor pieces and they take them home to flaunt in front of their parents.”
 
  
  Clay play: A child at a pottery class in a summer camp
 
 
 Radhika Awasthi, a swimming teacher at Magic Years Activity School, says, “What can be more fun than learning to swim in summers? It’s a refreshing activity and the kids love it. Also, since it is easy for kids to learn swimming, parents are really eager to enrol them at a younger age. Kids, usually, take five to six days to learn how to control their breath and simply float in the water. Then we teach them the different strokes.”
 
 
  STEP UP: A girl perfecting her dance moves at her summer camp
 
 
  
  Drum it up!
 
  – Mansi Chaturvedi
 
 
 
