CHENNAI: Killing two birds with one stone, the state government has banned the direct sale of imported sand by private players in the market and made the state   ( ) the sole agency to procure sand sourced from overseas. It has come as a bolt from the blue for the construction sector, which was banking on sand from markets abroad to tide over the acute shortage in  . 

 The December 8, 2017, guidelines by the PWD on regulation of storage, transportation and sale of imported sand from overseas and other states for constructions in Tamil Nadu underscore that it "should be sold only to the PWD" at the rates fixed by PWD. Noting that the right to store or sell the imported sand for construction purposes would be vested with the PWD, it states that samples of imported sand would be subjected to test to ensure that it is as per the prescribed specifications.
 
  "PWD has the power to refuse the consignment of the imported sand from other countries or sand brought from other states for construction purposes, which have not fulfilled the specifications."
 
 Official sources said the guidelines had been framed keeping in mind the quality of constructions using imported sand.
 
 "The public safety and public interest is paramount. The government would be held accountable for any eventuality in the buildings constructed using the imported sand and questions should not be raised later on why there was no regulation," an official told TOI. Queried about the future of importing sand, the official said, "There is no ban." 
 
 Developers' associations have, however, observed that curtails on importing sand would serve a blow for the construction sector crippled due to non-availability of sand in Tamil Nadu.
 
  Confederation of   Developers' Associations of India (CREDAI) Chennai chapter president   said: "It is an unfortunate political decision by the government. Several construction materials including steel are being imported. Except for the specifications, they do not face any hurdles during imports. Why is the government excluding sand alone?" he asked. Interestingly, CREDAI was planning to bring sand from   and  .
 
  "We were contemplating ferrying sand from these states through sea as it was working out cheaper. This will also be affected in the backdrop of the restrictions over transporting sand from outside," he added.
 
 
