These dazzling beauties are supremely talented and have what it takes. Here’s presenting the ladies who have made it to the first edition of   15   Women on Television 2017...

 
 Having started her career in television very young, Dhivyadharshini aka   has carved a niche for herself in the industry. She has a huge fan following, and is among the first few to become a star in the television industry. DD continues to outshine many of her contemporaries not just in television but also in the first edition of   Woman On Television 2017. 
 
 
 
 After dabbling in modelling, Keerthi aka Kiki debuted in the TV industry as a host with Maanada Mayilaada, and has anchored several shows, including Junior Super Stars. She also did an album, Lipstick, with hubby Shanthnu. 
 
 She and Shanthnu Bhagayaraj give us #RelationshipGoals.
 
 Vivacious and chirpy, her svelte figure is a dream for many.
 
 
 Nakshathra debuted as a host with Vanavil Live Life and tasted success with Sun Singer. She has also gone on to host several other shows, apart from acting in various shorts and the web series, As I Am Suffering From Kadhal. 
 
 She is quite single at the moment, we hear. Are you listening, boys?
 
  Her eyes speak volumes, and her bubbly attitude is sure to steal your heart. 
 
 
 A jack of all trades, Ramya started her career in television by hosting popular shows like Ungalil Yaar Adutha Prabhudeva?, and went on to try her luck in Kollywood, too. 
 
  She’s ‘committed’ to fitness.
 
 Smart and sexy, her eyes tell a million tales.
 
 
  She started out as a model, and soon, got offers to act in serials, including Maya and Ahaa. It was her stint as Sathya in Deivamagal that catapulted her to fame. She was also seen in Lakshmi Vandhachu.
 
 With so many professional commitments, who has the time for love?
 
 Cute and demure, she’s just the girl every guy wants to introduce to his parents!
 
 
 She started off with the soap opera Avanu Mathe Shravani in Kannada, and went on to act in popular Tamil serials like Kalyanam Mudhal Kadhal Varai and Yaaradi Nee Mohini. 
 
 Heads up, guys! This cutie pie is still unmarried.
 
 She has a sharp sense of fashion. Oh, how can we not mention her long tresses!
 
 
 : She danced her way in to the audience’s heart with Maanada Mayilada, and became a household name with her role as Semba in Raja Rani. 
 
 She’s going steady with her Maanada Mayilada co-participant Manas, with whom she also did an album song, Ill Thaka Saiya.
 
 Her angelic face and innocent charm make her desirable.
 
 
 This former TV news anchor rose to greater fame by playing the lead in Nenjam Marapathillai. She’s also acted in Chennai Ungalai Anbudan Varaverkirathu.
 
 This hottie is yet to find the man of her dreams.
 
 Her innocent smile and expressive eyes are enough to melt all hearts.
 
 
 She started her career as a VJ with a music channel and climbed up the popularity charts with Neengalum Naangalum. She’s much in demand to host reality shows and celebrity interviews, though she has taken a break now. 
 
 She and husband Chandran are waiting to welcome their first child.
 
 Her dreamy eyes clock her fan base at one million and counting.
 
 
  After making her debut in Kannada with the show Benkiyalli Aralida Hoovu, Nithya Ram shot to fame among Tamil audience with Nandhini, in which she played the titular role. She’s also one of the judges of Asathal Chutties.
 
  She likes to keep her personal life private. 
 
 Her mischievous smile and a go-getter attitude is a killer combination.
 
 
 She started her career by playing key roles in Kannada serials and created space for herself in the Tamil television industry as well. Her stint in Vani Rani as one of the leads has now made her a popular name. 
 
 She’s fiercely protective about her personal life.
 
 The quintessential girl-next-door. Do we need to say more?
 
 
  She transitioned from the big screen to television with grace. After working in many Malayalam and Tamil films, including Enna Satham Indha Neram, she continues to wow us with her role in Nandhini.
 
  Hard to believe that she’s still single!
 
 Her sparkling eyes and that million-dollar smile.
 
 
 Her magical voice won her many fans, thanks to her participation in Super Singer. Though she didn’t win the title in the reality show, she struck gold when she signed on to play one of the leads in the serial Pagal Nilavu. 
 
 Single, guys. Does that sound like music to your ears? 
 
 A voice that tugs at your heartstrings, and eyes that can convey her emotions.
 
 
 A television presenter and anchor, she has many popular shows to her credit, like Hot Seat, OMG and BLACK. She’s presently busy with Semma Morning and Freeya Vidu.
 
 She tied the knot with her best friend Hussain. Their cutesy posts give us #CoupleGoals.
 
 She’s the right blend of traditional and trendy.
 
 
  This Hyderabad girl started her career with the Telugu serial Adapilla, and later moved on to the Tamil television industry. She became a known face here, thanks to her role as Sakthi in Pagal Nilavu. She’s right now part of Rekka Katti Parakkudhu Manasu. 
 
  She’s engaged to her Pagal Nilavu co-star Syed Anwar.
 
  Bold and beautiful. Enough said.
 
 
