GURUGRAM: The image that springs instantly to mind when you think of Gurugram, of   and its imposing buildings, is changing.

 The gleaming façade of this corporate precinct, which gave it both an aura and a photogenic quality that turned it into the most representative image of Gurugram globally, is being peeled off to make way for a new look.
 
  
  
 The change has been gradual. Regular visitors to Cyber City began noticing it a few months ago. Today, it is conspicuous — many state-of-the-art buildings, including those housing international biggies like  ,  ,   (HP) and others, have been stripped of the ‘cladding’ that made up their facades. The process, according to officials, began around June last year. With the makeover continuing, the concrete walls of several of these buildings are now visible.
 
 So, those looking to snap up a representative image of Gurugram will have to come back another time; what shows up currently on their camera screens may not be quite as impressive. 
 
  
  
 “Initially, I thought it was some sort of routine refurbishing work,” said Aishwarya, who works in Udyog Vihar and drives through Cyber City every day. “It started last summer… I assumed it had something to do with heat. But slowly, one building after another have had their   removed. We have been wondering what happened.”
 
 There has been speculation that the changes began after the   fire in London on June 14 last year but DLF, which has built Cyber City and is changing the cladding, said it was a “self-initiated drive” as part of the company’s “commitment to adhere to latest building norms”. A DLF official said it was a “refurbishing” exercise.
 
 The Grenfell Tower blaze, which killed at least 79 people, was sparked by a fridge freezer and spread through the exterior of the building of the 24-storey building at incredible speed.
 
 A probe found that Reynobond PE, the   used for the building’s cladding, was inflammable in nature, and contributed to the rapid spread of the fire. A week after the blaze, the French manufacturer of Reynobond PE had pulled the material out of markets across the world. Before the blaze, there wasn’t much awareness about the hazards of Reynobond PE. 
 
 The timing of the removal of claddings from Cyber City buildings coincided with the global phenomenon but DLF didn’t confirm if the same aluminium panels were used in its buildings.
 
 “DLF has a platinum certification from the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED), developed by US Green Building Council. Besides, DLF is rated as one of the world’s best companies in terms of safety and security by DuPont Analysis,” said a DLF official, adding similar “refurbishing” work was being carried out at World Tech Park and Cyber Park in Gurugram, and other Cyber Cities in Chennai, Chandigarh and Hyderabad.
 
 A number of city-based architects TOI spoke to said corporate offices across Gurugram, Noida, Delhi and other Indian cities had the same cladding material as Reynobond PE.“Countries like the US and Germany have very strict buildings safety norms. But in countries like India, realtors barely have to face any enforcement agency competent enough to check if they are properly adhering to the National Building Code,” said Abhimanyu Bhatia, visiting professor emeritus at Sushant School of Arts and Architecture.
 
 
