NAGPUR: Friday night was all about words, creativity and music as young literati made their way to a city cafè to showcase their talent before the audience and present self-curated poetries. 

 
 Spoken word poetry and slam poetry is currently gaining popularity across the country with many young minds taking a shot at it. The event was organized under the banner of ‘Beyond Words’ by   who has staged such events in Pune, Mumbai and Bengaluru.
 
 The artistes poured their   out during performances, defying age and language barrier. Mohit Varu enchanted the audience with his Hindi and Urdu shayari about love, loss and insecurities while Apurva Bharadwaj performed a piece called ‘Prem Visar Ghatle ’ in Marathi, talking about her celebrity crush and summed it up with beautiful metaphors and imagery. 
 
 Sakshi Kamble, who had earlier performed in Mumbai, presented an impromptu piece while Darryl Grant combined the western and Bollywood music with his sonnets and gave goosebumps to the crowd with his soulful voice and mesmerizing words.
 
 Madhura said, “Though this was my first event in Nagpur, the response was overwhelming.” Herself a spoken word poet, Madhura emphasized the need for creating a proper platform when it comes to poetry in city, not only for writers but also for the literature enthusiasts. 
 
 Twelve performers participated in the event in which six were featured poets and the others participants. “We give more importance to quality of content rather than quantity,” said Madhura. 
 
 Commenting on the mixed crowd that turned up for the show, she said, usually, the participants are mostly youngsters, but there have been participants and attendees from the older age groups as well.
 
 Mohit Tiwari said promotion of creative talent and give them an opportunity to be heard and improvise their art is the goal.
 
 Talking to TOI, Mandar Pandhare, who has been a regular face at such events, said, “Programmes like these help create community spaces for budding poets and artistes looking for a platform.”
 
 (Reporting by Heena Manghani)
 
 
