GURGAON: Residents of DLF phases, who have been living under constant threat of security breaches for three months after   at many critical entry points to their mini-township were damaged over time due to neglect, can finally hope to breathe a sigh of relief. 

 After numerous reminders, the developer has now agreed to rebuild the damaged gates, and erect new ones at other identified breach points, though as the entire area gets encircled by a wire fence. Residents said daily security breaches had suddenly shot up over the past three months. 
 
 “It was a very big problem,” said  , a resident. “We have been fighting for three months, while many incidents of thefts took place. On November 5, thieves walked away with a motorbike belonging to a resident near Block F, DLF Phase 1. Four days later, on November 9, there was a burglary attempt on the house of Satish Khosla, who lives in Block A. Again, on November 14, thieves stole a laptop, cash and camera from a vehicle parked outside Qutub Plaza in DLF Phase 1.” He continued, “The next day, thieves walked away with ornaments worth Rs 30 lakh from the standalone house on plot number 13, West Path. On December 1, the Maruti Alto car of a resident of Block E was stolen. We had been pleading with DLF to get the broken gates erected. This is one of Gurgaon’s most affluent areas, yet there was no sense of security. We were all living in fear.”
 
 Other residents said what made the situation more fearful was that all the burglaries happened in broad daylight. “Thieves took advantage of two conditions. First, there were no gates. Second, there were no CCTV cameras,” said Mukesh Malik, another resident. “We were feeling totally unsafe.”
 
 Residents told TOI they had forwarded a proposal to DLF in November 2017, and pursued the case aggressively with them. 
 
 “I wrote to them,” said R S Rathi, the City councillor for DLF. “This area had a dire need of gates. We’re in the process of making DLF into a gated colony. We’ve already installed a 2km-long fence along its periphery, from   to Flower Chowk. We’ll be plugging breaches on the rear as well.” In total, 11 gates are slated to be installed or rebuilt — five in Phase 1, four in Phase 2 and two in Phase 3. “All gates will be erected within three months,” said a DLF official. 
 
 “The first one, on Arjun Marg, has already been built. Work on the gate towards Ashoka Crescent will start next.” Residents said while three gates only needed redevelopment, the remaining had to be built from scratch. They said the Arjun Marg gate in DLF Phase 1 is almost ready. 
 
 “There is only some painting and other superficial work left,” Rathi said. “The next gate to be built is towards Ashoka Crescent in Block G, DLF Phase 1.”
 
 
