MOHALI: “The era where you would attract one large IT company to the area and relax thinking that the sector would now grow on its own is over. This is apparently the time of startups,” said one of the panelists at the TOI conclave focusing on making Mohali tech capital of Punjab made everyone sit up. Reason? The speaker was head of tech giant Infosys in Tricity Sameer Goel.

 Infosys, India’s second largest IT company by revenue, already employs more than 7,000 people in Tricity and plans to add up to 3,000 more. The new jobs will be added in the behemoth’s Mohali campus. Yet Goel was clear that for Mohali to emerge as a major IT destination, supporting startups was the way forward.
 
 He was not alone in thinking this. The event ‘Mohali: The Next Big IT Hub’, organized by TOI in association with Software Technology Parks of India (STPI) — an agency under the Union ministry of electronics & IT — saw two major steps being taken in this direction.
 
 In presence of Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh, his government signed an agreement with STPI, ISB and   to establish a ‘Startup Hub’. The Hub would come up in an area of 45,000 sq ft in the STPI building in Phase VIII of Mohali, where the event was held on Tuesday. In addition, the state government also launched a startup portal to help the new businesses in the region.
 
 Rarely do business conclaves see such convergence of purpose and energies. Not only did the state and Union governments came together for TOI’s initiative, but also showed will to collaborate to make the vision a reality.
 
 In his keynote address and again during the panel discussion, the CM showed that he was well aware of the opportunities as well as the challenges of making possible his idea of making Mohali an industrial hub, which he said was his original plan when he decided to carve out Mohali from Ropar district.
 
 “To attract people and companies, we have to ensure they get quality life in Mohali. They would need buildings and housing, right ambience and good law and order situation,” Captain said.
 
 Responding to various questions, he talked about airport expansion, NRI connect and the checkered journey of Punjab’s growth and drugs menace. “When the country needed it, we became the food bowl of India. Now paddy is being grown in other parts too, so we need to look at industrial growth,” the CM said.
 
 “Punjab has a population of 2 crore and 90 lakh. Of these, 90 lakh people, mostly young, are underpaid or unemployed… our public schools have seen a failure rate of 50%. We have tied up with industries to adopt government school and 250 of them have already been given to industries. Failures lead to frustrations and inability to handle it lead to problems like drug abuse. We have to ensure more youngsters do not get into the trap and the old ones can come out,” he added.
 
 Earlier, Punjab industries department secretary Rakesh Verma made a presentation showcasing the   region, with AeroCity, Medicity, IT City and Knowledge City to guide the growth of the entire region.
 
 In the panel discussion, telecom and electronics manufacturing industry was represented by national president of Indian Cellular Association Pankaj  . Also the chairman of the Union government’s Fast Track Task Force working on ‘Make in India’ and ‘Digital India’,   said that electronics manufacturing in India was going to see investment of $1 trillion, of which 50% would be in mobile manufacturing. Mohali had the capacity of attracting 10% share from this, he said.
 
 Director, sales, at GBP Group Anupam Gupta said that on an average transactions worth around Rs 500 crore are being executed every month in Mohali. Of total figure, transactions of around Rs 350 crore are being done by the developers, while resale of properties contributes to the remaining around Rs 150 crore.
 
 The discussion was moderated by serial entrepreneur and MD of PKV Advisors  . While he had the CM spell out his vision for Mohali in 2025, he also asked STPI director-general Omkar Rai as to what made the central agency on Mohali in such a big way. 
 
 Among all the Tier-II cities across India, STPI has made biggest investment in Mohali.
 
 
