MOHALI:   State Women’s Commission chairperson Manisha Gulati has levelled allegations of disrespect and abuse against SSP  . She has also filed a written complaint against him to Union home minister Rajnath Singh, Punjab governor V P Singh Badnore and chief minister Amarinder Singh.

 
  
 Gulati said, “It was very wrong on part of an IPS officer of being rude, abusive and showing disrespect to a   officer. My fault was that I called up the SSP to know the status of the complaint of a victim of sexual harassment. Instead of giving a proper answer for not registering the FIR, the SSP used abusive language and disrespected me. So, I have filed a complaint seeking action against him.”
 
 Gulati, in her complaint, alleged, “It is to bring to your kind notice that the chair which is assigned to uplift the dignity of women in Punjab is facing difficulty in working due to misbehaviour of a police officer, Kuldip Singh, SSP, Mohali. He was assigned to investigate the grievance of a local woman, suffering from sexual harassment. Repeated requests by the complainant were overlooked due to unknown reasons. When the woman approached the women’s commission, the chairperson personally called the SSP, who rather than listening to the issue, started shouting and using abusive language towards her.”
 
 The letter further reads, “If such is the behaviour of an officer towards the chairperson, what could be the plight of the common women. I request exemplary action be taken so that the commission and police department can collaboratively work in positive direction without any unnecessary altercations. Seeking prompt action.”
 
 On the other hand, the SSP said the conduct of the chairperson was not correct while talking to an IPS officer. He said, “She was trying to influence someone by keeping her mobile phone on speaker mode and rudely questioning me saying, ‘Ye kya laga rakha hai’. I am holding a responsible post and we can always have an argument, but question does not rise of misbehaving or giving disrespect. I asked the woman to have a normal talk, but she was getting aggressive. But I never used any non-parliamentary language or showed disrespect. I just cautioned her to not to talk like that to a SSP.”
 
 
 
 
 The argument was about a case in which a woman had filed a complaint with   of being a victim of sexual harassment. Manisha Gulati said the woman had filed a complaint a month ago, but the SSP “instead of registering an FIR against the accused, was shielding him”. The victim approached the Punjab State Women’s Commission after which chairperson called up the SSP to know about the status of the case and questioning the delay of registering a FIR. Gulati said the victim has been exploited by a man who promised to marry her but later dumped her.
 
 
