MYSURU: Writer   inspired hundreds of youngsters to take up Kannada literature, said writer and critic   here on Thursday.

 Basavaraju, at an event to remember renowned Kannada author KP Poornachandra Tejaswi on the occasion of the latter 11th death anniversary organised by the city-based organisation Odanadi Seva Samshte, said, “Tejwasi was unique insofar as catering to readers of all ages. His works inspired youngsters. He sought inspiration from commoners. He also drew inspiration from his experience in Mudigere. His curiosity for living organisms, flora and fauna have been recorded in novels and stories.”
 
 Recollecting is association with the writer,   said, “Tejaswi was a multi-faceted personality. He had a keen interest in painting, photography, fishing and hunting. Tejaswi painted the cover pages of the books published by his firm – Pustaka Prakashana.”
 
 Recalling the many fishing experiences that the two shared, Basavaraju added, “He displayed a lot of patience. He would sit by the River Hemavati for hours, observing the moments of nature. Fishing was like meditation for him. He had great taste in food. His hunting experience can send shivers down the spine of many. Tejaswi felt that hunting could unite individuals – he thought that in in times of danger, individuals would forget castes and unite.”
 
 Basavaraju also shared anecdotes about the trip he shared with Tejaswi to the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. “He could converse easily with the layman. He was a great observer. He translated his experiences and observations into words in his novels. His characters, Maara, Mandanna, Karvalo are all commoners, yet they enhance the beauty of the novels,” he said.
 
 Pointing to some of Tejaswi’s lesser-known talents, Basavaraju said, “Tejaswi can be regarded as one of the best bird photographers of  . He was also keen in pursuing music, and he was a pupil of noted sitar player Abdul Halim Jaffer Khan.”
 
 Professor Shivaram, a close friend of Tejaswi too reminisced about the times he had shared with the author. Directors of Odanadi, Stanley and Parashu were in attendance at the event.
 
 
