CHANDIGARH: If all goes according to the plans of the UT electricity department, Chandigarh may just have a new tariff category for electricity   who use unauthorised power — domestic misuse consumer (DMC).

 As the name suggests, the tariff has been proposed for consumers using power illicitly, like a domestic consumer using it for commercial purposes. UT superintending engineer MP Singh confirmed this. He said the department had sought an approval from the   (JERC) for charging more under under the proposed tariff. The penalty ranges from 60% to 190% more than the regular charge .
 
 The department, in the petition filed before the commission, has contended that a large number of residents are running commercial activities from their houses — grocery, welding and repair shops — without approval of a competent authority to carry out commercial activities in domestic area. Unauthorised use of electricity is common at villages and in the periphery of Chandigarh. 
 
 While shops are common at homes in places like   and Dhanas, villages like Burail and Kajehri have small-scale factory units inside homes. At present, a consumer is booked under Section 126 of Electricity Act 2003 for unauthorised use of electricity. Unde this, a one-time penalty is imposed on the defaulting consumer. 
 
 However, the JERC has amended rules. Now, electricity charges in all cases of unauthorised use of electricity will continue to be levied until unauthorised use of electricity is not rectified, say the new rules.
 
 As the department is already reeling under a Rs 208-crore revenue gap, it hopes to make more money with the new plan. 
 
 Now, connections outside  
 
 UT electricity department has decided to provide temporary domestic connection to houses constructed outside Lal Dora, which is the village land that can be used for non-agricultural purposes only or for support systems like livestock. As unauthorised construction beyond Lal Dora was to the tune of 254 acres in the city, the department had not been issuing connections to residents of these areas. The department has been forced to act following directions issued by Consumer Grievance Redressal   (CGRF). As per Section 43 of Indian Electricity Act 2003, every distribution licensee is duty bound to supply electricity on request by the owner of any premises.
 
 
 
