VIJAYAWADA:   is the best stress buster for us during the ongoing examination season, opined students who participated in the event held on   on Sunday.

 Happy Streets is an initiative of the  , which is organises Happy Streets in collaboration with Andhra Pradesh Tourism,   Municipal Corporation and Vijayawada police near Indira Gandhi Municipal Stadium and if denizens are to be believed the event is becoming more and more popular with each passing week.
 
 Despite the morning winter chill, kids along with their parents reached the venue by 5.45 am. They waited in long queues for their turn to play volleyball, shuttle badminton, basketball, gully cricket, archery, cycling, snakes and ladder, tug-of-war, skating and other activities arranged at the venue.
 
 School children dominated the adults with huge attendance this week and their enthusiasm was a sight to see. While some grooved to the beats of the DJ, hundreds other refreshed themselves with yoga session.
 
 K Udbhav, a seventh standard student, said, “ Happy Streets is a great stress buster for us. Yoga sessions help us overcome tension. This programme is always special to me as it has something new and for everyone every week.”
 
 Zumba dance received a very good response from college youths as they were seen shaking their leg to latest Telugu folk songs. “Happy streets have become a great hangout place for us on every weekend and it is helping us get recharged. Events like Happy Streets help us beat all kinds of stress. We thank TOI for bringing such a healthy event to Vijayawada,” said  , a techie from the city.
 
  “Happy Streets took me back to my childhood. It was almost forty years ago that I left my school, where we used to take part in tug-of-war. It was very nice to play the same sport with family on  ,” said M. Venkat Rao a private sector employee. Happy Streets will be organised in the city for the next 13 Sundays from 6.00 am to 8.30 am on Mahatma Gandhi Road (Bandar Road) from Indira Gandhi Municipal Stadium to DCP Bungalow.
 
 
