Coimbatore: About 2.5 lakh new jobs have been created in the garments and made-ups sector since the government announced a relief package for them in June 2016, Union textile commissioner Kavita Gupta has said. The government aims to double the annual revenue of the textile industry in the country to $300 billion by 2025, she said

 The union government showered the garments sector with a host of benefits including bearing employer’s contribution to the employee provident fund (EPF) for new workers who are earning less than Rs 15,000 per month during the first three years. The government also increased the overtime hours from three hours to eight hours per week. EPF was also made optional for workers earning less than Rs 15,000 per month. “Job creation is gaining momentum in the garments and made-ups segment,” Gupta, who was here to inaugurate the ‘Regional Office of the Synthetic & Rayon Textiles Export Promotion Council (SRTEPC)’ at SIMA (Southern India Mills’ Association) premises in the city here on Friday, said. The readymade garment industry is the largest contributor to the country’s textile exports and employs about 12 million persons now.
 
 A calculation showed that garment makers were able to get benefits to the tune of Rs 55 lakh for every Rs 1 crore in new investments committed under the package, the textile commissioner said. The provision of 240 days employment per year for workers under Section 80JJAA of the Income Tax Act was relaxed to 150 days per year for the garment industry.
 
 The capital subsidy under amended TUFS (technology upgradation fund scheme) was increased to 25% from 15%. A new scheme was introduced to refund the state levies which were not refunded earlier. The move cost the exchequer Rs 5,500 crore but industry officials said that it helped in boosting the competitiveness of Indian textile exports in foreign markets.
 
 The country’s textile industry currently generates about $150 billion in annual revenues — $110 billion from the domestic market and $40 billion through exports, Gupta said. The industry should increase production of synthetic clothes manifold to achieve the target of doubling revenues, she said.
 
 While the annual production of cotton textiles is pegged at 6.5 billion kgs, about 2.5 billion kgs of synthetic textiles are made now, she stated. “We have to increase production by five times to achieve the target,” the textile commissioner said. “We will be able to produce 8 billion kgs of cotton textiles by improving productivity in units and yield levels. For the remaining, only synthetic (textiles) will be able to fulfill,” she said.
 
 
