KOCHI: On Saturday, Aneeshmon E V received a grand welcome at  , after he was revealed to be the man whose timely alert-call, saved the life of a toddler who was rescued from railway tracks on Friday night. Aneeshmon, a senior civil police officer with the   (KATS), was in Kochi to visit the child he saw wandering dangerously through the railway track in the darkness. 

 On Friday night at around 8.30 pm,   was heading to   when his train gained pace as it moved past the Kalamassery railway station. The building of Apollo tyres caught the attention of Aneesh who was gazing out through the window. Soon he saw a toddler on the tracks. Unable to believe what he saw, he rushed to the door to get a second view. 
 
 "Though some people didn't see what I saw, the fourth person, whom I asked, told me that he saw a child. I immediately googled the station number of Kalamassery police station and alerted them about the child on the tracks near Apollo tyres and they immediately rushed to the spot to take him to safety," Aneeshmon told TOI.
 
 Aneeshmon, who works in Malappuram was on his way to his wife's house in   when he spotted the child.
 
 Kalamassery police are overwhelmed as a Facebook post about the rescue of the child garnered over 43,000 reactions and was shared by over 30,000 users on Facebook. Police at the   police station said they realised the seriousness of the issue immediately and reached the spot, which is one-and-half-kilometers away from the station, within two minutes. "There was a slope right next to the quarters where the child and his mother were staying. He was playing outside the quarters on his tri-cycle when it accidentally rolled down the slope and the child fell hitting his forehead. He then walked towards the track trying to find the mother. Those who were seraching for him however went in the opposite direction," said Anilkumar C K, a CPO at the Kalamassery station. 
 
 Apart from Anilkumar, Niyas Meeran a CPO who was standing guard to the station and a sub-inspector CB Prasannan were the ones rushed to the spot. One-and-a-half-year-old Devanarayanan, is the son of Manju and Sanjith, a couple from Kollam who moved to Kalamassery recently.
 
 
