SURAT: Protests during the   called by   organizations against ‘dilution’ of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act largely remained peaceful in the city on Monday.

 The Dalit outfits were protesting against the Supreme Court’s March 20 judgment in a case wherein it observed that the anti-atrocities law has become an instrument to ‘blackmail’ innocent citizens and public servants. 
 
 There was heavy police bandobast in the city on Monday and senior officers held a meeting with leaders of the Dalit communities to ensure peaceful demonstration during the bandh. Barring a couple of violent incidents, overall the protests remained peaceful. 
 
 Police detained 95 people, including a woman. They were later released. A group of demonstrators reached police headquarters in the afternoon to get those held released. 
 
 Police resorted to mild lathicharge on Ring Road in the afternoon when a group of demonstrators was forcing forceful closure of shops in the textile market. Police detained 79 men and one woman from Ring Road for not dispersing. 
 
 Police detained 16 people during demonstration in Amroli. A rally was organized by Dalit organizations on Bhagal main road and shopowners were asked to keep their establishments closed. Rallies were also taken from Babasaheb Ambedkar’s statues at Man Darwaja, Limbayat and Udhna. 
 
 “We ensured there was no violence during the demonstrations. Policemen were deployed across the city since morning. We held a meeting with leaders of the Dalit community on Sunday and they assured us of cooperation. Police officers worked hard and Dalit community leaders cooperated with us to ensure no untoward incident took place during the bandh,” city police commissioner Satish Sharma said. 
 
 While some protesters blocked the National Highway-48 near   by burning tyres on the road in the afternoon. There was traffic jam on this segment for an hour. Police got the road cleared after some time. Another group of protesters sat on the road at Kamrej and blocked the NH48 for some time in the afternoon. 
 
 
