KOLKATA: In perhaps the first instance of   ordering the demolition of a heritage building, a civic team pulled down a section of the   branch of Metropolitan Institution on   Tagore Street in   after it was assessed to be dangerous to public safety.

 The civic authority is yet to decide whether it will carry out repairs and restore the building that belonged to the Tagores before being transformed into a school. Apart from the historic figures associated with the school — like Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar who founded Metropolitan Institution — the building itself is architecturally significant. It has a colonnaded façade, studded doors and gates. It also has a thakurdalan adorned with arches depicting elephant trunks and pillars carved out of 
 a deep red stone.
 
 
  
 The decision to demolish a portion of the derelict structure came after a chunk of the parapet collapsed in last Sunday’s nor’wester. Though no one was injured, locals approached the   local councillor, as well as Jorabagan police station, asking for measures to ensure that pedestrians did not get injured. The police then contacted KMC, which sent a demolition team. After inspecting the building, sections that posed an immediate threat were pulled down.
 
 Till 1954, the building belonged to the Tagores and was known as  . Thereafter, the Burrabazar branch of Metropolitan Institution was set up on the premises. The school occupied rooms on the ground and first floor, and the Pathuriaghata post office was also situated there. Now, the building is in a shambles.
 
 Functioning from 6am to 11am, the school has only 60 students and is restric ted to the ground floor, as the first floor is condemned. Though the civic authority cited public safety to justify the demolition, a section of locals are upset with the move. “I grew up in the locality that has several houses of both architectural and historical significance. The Metropolitan Institution is one of them. It has been painful to see its neglect. It needs to be restored. Instead, KMC is undertaking a demolition,” said lawyer Sambit Mukherjee.
 
 Heritage architects are dismayed at KMC’s response to a crumbling heritage structure. In the recent past, the civic body has even received flak for de-listing heritage buildings to enable their demolition. “KMC is carrying out demolition saying the building is unsafe. But it didn’t become unsafe overnight. Several heritage buildings are allowed to rot away so that they collapse. The civic authority must chalk out a plan for conservation of buildings that are important to the city, both in terms of historical and architectural heritage,” said architect  .
 
 The demolition itself is challenging given the vulnerable nature of the structure. A young member of the team showed TOI how sections of the lime-mortar structure easily gave way. At Pathuriaghata Street, which also houses Tagore Castle and Tagore Palace, locals feel restoration activities ought to have started long ago. “Buildings like the Metropolitan Institution are of national importance and need to be preserved for posterity,” said schoolteacher Rita Agarwal.
 
