PUNE: A large group of people — most of them regulars walkers on the   hill — met at the Aapla Maruti mandir on Wednesday to protest the concrete wall being built by the forest department, purportedly to demarcate its land from the land leased to ILS Law College.

  
 In just two weeks, earth movers have wreaked havoc, levelling large sections of the slopes and uprooting hundreds of trees, said the protesters. “The damage is especially bad in one section. Trenches were dug up before the contractor realised that the particular section belonged to the ILS Law College. He then used an earth mover to excavate another trench nearby,” said Sushma Date, a member of the Deccan Gymkhana Parisar Samiti (DGPS). “Had the authorities used manual labour instead of earth movers, the damage would have been less. Also, no notice was given on how many trees would be cut. Some of the trees that were cut, turned out to be on Law College land. The contractor must be punished for this,” said Date.
 
 Mahesh Bhavsar, the assistant conservator of forest, addressed the crowd of protestors. Talking to TOI, Bhavsar said the 480-metre wall was needed to protect forest land from encroachments. “Protesters have suggested fencing the area, but fences will be destroyed in days. The wall is being built to demarcate forest area. This is our attempt to save the hill from encroachers, as certain other hills in the city — in Warje and Ramtekdi — have already been encroached upon,” he said.
 
 About the damage done to the forest, Bhavsar said most of the trees that were cut had already dried up. “Once the wall is built, we will be planting native trees to replace the ones that were cut. Our intention is to save the hill, which is also what the protesters want. The wall is the most practical solution. Not building the wall, just in the name of conservation, will be of no use if the hill falls prey to encroachers,” said Bhavsar. He said the department may have to stop the work if the protests continue, but that would put the land at risk. At present, construction of the wall has been stopped out of respect for citizens’ sentiments, he said. Soon the forest department will hold another meeting with the representatives to find a midway solution. “Our aim is to save forest land for the future generations,” Bhavsar said.
 
 DGPS member Sumita Kale said a concrete wall will divide the natural forest into compartments and will have a devastating effect on the rich biodiversity of the Vetal hill. “Even though some parts of the tekdi are not officially designated as reserved forest land, they are still thickly wooded. The walls will not only be an ecological threat to the flora, but it will act as a barrier to the movement of forest-dependent species as well,” said Kale.
 
 Law College road resident Ashwini Darekar said around 500 trees have been cut to build the RCC wall. “We are not against demarcating the forest land, we only want it to be done in an eco-friendly way,” said Darekar, who had organized Wednesday’s protest and has till now collected 400 signatures against the wall.
 
 
