Aurangabad: Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) continues to have no full-time appointments on key posts, including that of pro vice-chancellor, registrar and controller of examinations, affecting its functioning. While the post of pro vice-chancellor was mandatory as per the previous legislation governing the state universities and the current one, Bamu has witnessed no appointment of this key post — considered as deputy of the vice-chancellor. Recently, there were talks within the university circle regarding some official movement for appointment of pro-VC, but nothing happened till date. Another key post of registrar has been vacant since January 2015 and different faculties have so far held the charge as an additional responsibility through short stints. Sadhana Pande took charge as acting registrar of Bamu from Pradeep Jabde in November last year. As per the recently framed Maharashtra Public Universities Act, 2016, the registrar shall be the chief administrative officer of the university and will be appointed by the vice-chancellor on the recommendation of a selection committee constituted for the purpose. Bamu authorities said the official process of recruitment of registrar was in progress. The post of Controller of Examination (CoE) has no full-time appointment at Bamu after Ashok Chavan joined the Savitraibai Phule Pune University as head of examination department in August 2014. Following his exit, Bamu administration appointed Suresh Gaikwad as an officiating CoE. However, within days of appointments, Gaikwad faced allegations of carrying out second redressal of answer-sheets of his son and some other students in violation of rules. He was asked to step down by in January. Walmik Sarwade then was given additional charge as CoE, but he too tendered his resignation amid different rumours about his visit to the chancellor. Digamber Netke, Satish Dandge and Rajesh Ragde were among the faculties who served as officiating CoE in the meantime. Netke is currently holding the charge as no recruitment has taken place yet. Student activist Tukaram Saraf said vacuum within Bamu administration could take toll on the university during the visit of the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC). “Even if Bamu is one of the oldest state universities in the country all is not well with it currently. Some of the key posts are vacant for more than three years and it speaks volume about the mismanagement. Those who are shouldering additional responsibilities of the key posts are not able to devote ample time to their original duties. The chancellor’s office should take serious note of this and order corrective measures,” he said. Bamu vice-chancellor B A Chopade could not be reached for his comments. However, another senior official said recruitment in question for some of the key posts was already in progress. 