CHENNAI:   is all set to get three new government-funded   this year.

 Union education ministry had recently approved the state’s proposal to construct the facilities at Villupuram ( ),   (Mailaduthurai) and Dharmapuri (Pennagaram) where the dropout rate has been high compared to other areas.
 
 Besides this, the existing residential school facility at Valparai block in Coimbatore would also be expanded, said a senior official from Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (Education for All), a government-sponsored programme to bolster primary education in the country.
 
 “These projects were approved on an urgent basis to arrest the problem of out of school children (OOSC).”
 
 In 2017, the state wing of the SSA had identified nearly 34,200 OOSC, according to government records. Of this, nearly half the children belonged to the age group of 11 to 14.
 
 With more than 2,400 OOSC, Villupuram district recorded the highest number of school dropouts in 2017 compared to other 31 districts in Tamil Nadu.
 
 Though many join schools, children from Villupuram district join brick kilns, mostly in Thiruvallur. Demand for labour in these kilns increases in June-July as workers from other states return to Tamil Nadu only after November, say local education department officials.
 
 To overcome this, a full-time residential school will come up at  , a remote village in Kallakurichi block, where the dropout rate of children belonging to Scheduled Caste (SC) community is high.
 
 The other two proposed projects in Nagapattinam and Dharmapuri would cater to the demands of children belonging to   community and seasonal migrants, respectively.
 
 At present, there are eight such full-time facilities operating across the state and Rs 6.5 crore has been sanctioned for the maintenance of these facilities.
 
 Of the total 34,200 children identified as OOSC in Tamil Nadu, special training is under way for 21,900 children at 980-odd non-residential and residential training centres this academic year at a cost of Rs 18 crore.
 
 After being trained in these centres, they would be mainstreamed into regular schools, the senior SSA official told. 
 
 
