CHANDIGARH: Lack of ground policing, absence of coordination between people and police and excessive dependence of the police on   cameras as well as other gadgets have collectively contributed to the increase in   cases and other crimes, believe experts and former policemen. 

 Since January, 60 cases of snatching have been reported across the city and police claimed to have solved only 21. Police authorities said they have taken preventive measures like increase in patrolling in vulnerable areas and deployment of women personnel in busy markets, but to no avail. 
 
 Retired police officers feel dependence on CCTV cameras and other technology has backfired. They feel the beat system should be revived, there should be more police-public meetings, the beat officer should be aware of all activities in the area, police should have a data bank of habitual snatchers and criminals and patrolling in vulnerable areas should be enhanced. 
 
 Jagbir Singh, a retired   (crime branch) of the UT police expressed concern over the police-public gulf. He also noted lack of on-ground policing and said instead of relying on people, police are banking on CCTV footage and other gadgets. He said policemen do not like interacting with residents these days.
 
 Another retired inspector of the UT police said a disgruntled workforce could not yield results. According to him, there are a few SHOs who were not willing to work in police stations assigned to them, but were forced to. He said faulty policies of seniors have contributed to the spiralling cases of snatching. 
 
 He pointed out that police do not maintain records of old criminals and snatchers, who go back to crime when they are released. Police must maintain a list of snatchers out on bail, the DSP said. He went on to say that a few SHOs are too inexperienced to handle crimes. 
 
 According to sources, a number of people involved in snatching are arrested on weaker sections of the   and those arrested are released on bail in two or three months at the most. 
 
 They said UT police formulated and sent a proposal to impose Sections 379 A and 365 B of the IPC in snatching cases to the   ( ). However, police did not get an affirmation from the ministry to apply these sections in snatching cases. As of now, only sections 379 and 356 of the IPC are applicable in snatching cases in Chandigarh.
 
 Another factor in such cases is drug addiction, police said. According to them, many of the people arrested said they committed the crime to finance their drug addiction. 
 
 A senior police official said the beat system has been revived. He said beat officers were told they must be deeply familiar with their area and that they should have also have a list of criminals, crime prone areas and senior citizens in their areas. He also said CCTV camera footage does help in solving cases. 
 
 
