HYDERABAD: The   public hearing for expansion of coal based thermal power plant by adding 800 MW to the existing 1200 MW at   with an investment of Rs 5,879 crore has been scheduled for March 7. PCB has decided to conduct the hearing based on the environment impact assessment study submitted by The   Limited. Both the centre and   have stakes in the company.

 The extended unit of the coal plant will produce 3950 tons of fly ash per day and 987 tons bottom ash per day. SCCL chief coordinator of the project, L Laxminarayana told TOI: “The third unit that is coming up with super critical technology will be good for the environment. After government approval three months ago, we begun the process of handing over the commissioning of the project to the BHEL. Out of the total cost of the project, SCCL will bear 30% of the cost and remaining Rs 4000 crore of loans will be raised from financial institutes. We have called for tenders for obtaining loans. After the environment minister issued the terms of reference, we conducted the baseline study. Now, PCB will hold public hearing at the site in Pegadapalli village in Jaipur mandal of Mancherial district of Telangana.”
 
 Laxminarayana added, “currently the fly ash produced is supplied to cement factories, and bottom ash is pumped into the mines. So there is no ash left. The overall area of the plant is around 1968 acres, and we utilised only 600 acres, and rest is all plantation. We will draw the water from both Godavari and Pranahita. At present we are consuming six million tons of coal for 1200 MW and for addition 800 MW we will need 32. Million tons of coal that are being supplied from Singareni mines.”
 
 He said that the project would be commissioned in 42 months from the date of order to be given to BHEL. The Environment Impact Assesment study has revealed that “the thermal power plant has the potential to cause damage to crops and   gardens in the buffer zone if the air pollution control systems do not perform satisfactorily. Mango is sensitive to dust and oxides of sulphur, and hence, the mango gardens retained within the core area can serve as bioindicators of air pollution by dust and sulphur oxides if monitored properly.”
 
 In the core area of the project, there are no biosphere reserves, national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, wetlands or other protected areas in a range the of 10 km distance. According to the EIA report, the buffer zone consists three blocks of reserved forest including Kundaram, Mittapalli and Indaram within 15 km radius of the project.
 
