SHIMLA: Green activists have started opposing the construction of dams along the   basin. They claimed that cumulative geological impacts of three huge impoundments – Tehri, Kishau and Renuka Dam in almost parallel valleys of a Himalayan region – adjacent to one another are not even being considered. Recently in a meeting held in New Delhi, Yamuna Basin states including Uttrakhand and Himachal Pradesh have agreed to the draft inter-state agreement for the construction of Lakhwar, Renuka and Kishau dams on the river and its tributaries.

 Manshi Asher from  , Himachal Pradesh based NGO, said that be it Renuka or  , they seem to be the same old ‘clogged’ pipe dreams. There may be multiple reasons for the delays in these projects, which there is a general agreed silence on’ – the slump in hydro sector or the absence of funding, the sorry state of dams in the country in general, the conflict over water sharing across states, he added.
 
 She said that but this is not the only common thread binding these projects. The extent and nature of displacement and environmental threats are also more or less the same across some of these projects on the Yamuna basin, which were all planned under the   signed by five states in the 1990s.
 
 In 2014-15, Prakash Bhandari and Kesang Thakur of Himdhara Collective, had carried out a field investigation and study of the area to be impacted by the proposed Kishau Dam in Himachal and Uttarakhand.
 
 This report “Submerging Jaunsar Bawar” puts together the findings of the study. According to information provided under RTI by UJVNL, 9 villages from Uttarakhand and 8 villages (6 from Sirmour and 2 from Shimla district) are going to be affected by Kishau dam project and it’s submergence area will spread over 2950 hectares. Of the total submergence area, 512 hectares is cultivated private land and 2438 hectare is forest land. A total of 5498 people belonging 701 families will be directly affected by the project, report said.
 
 The project involves building of a 236 m high dam on river Tons, which is a major tributary of the Yamuna, originating in the Jamnotri mountains and passing through Shimla and Sirmour districts and Jaunsar Bawar region in district Dehradun.
 
 All along 44.5 kms of the submergence area, villages are located on both sides of the river at some interval.
 
 Asher said that if Kishau and the proposed 315 metre Pancheshwar dams are built then one of India’s most disaster prone states, Uttarakhand, will also be the site of the three highest dams of the country (Pancheshwar (315m), Tehri (281m) and Kishau (236m)).
 
