BENGALURU/BAGALKOT: Two  , including a deputy superintendent of police ( ), and a home guard attached to Criminal Investigation Department (CID), Bengaluru, died on the spot after their official vehicle collided with a truck at Kudalasangama Cross near Bagalkot town on Wednesday midnight.

 The deceased are deputy superintendent of police H Balegowda, 55, police inspector K H Shivaswamy, 40, and driver Venu Gopal, 23, a home guard. 
 
 Bagalkot Rural police said the officials on election duty were on their way to Bagalkot when a truck coming from the opposite direction rammed their Mahindra Bolero. Their vehicle got stuck under the truck. Truck driver Mujavar has been arrested. 
 
 A guard of honour was given to the deceased on the premises of the district police headquarters. Inspector general of police (northern range) Alok Kumar, Bagalkot SP C Vamshi Krishna, ZP CEO Vikas Suralkar among others were present.
 
 From crime writer to DSP
 
 Balegowda, a resident of Kottigepalya, west Bengaluru, was known as an officer with extraordinary calibre and for his ability to crack sensational cases.
 
 A native of Kebballi near Kanakapura, he joined the forces as a police constable in 1982 when he was 19 years old. He was assigned as crime writer in Kunigal police station in Tumakuru. He was selected as sub-inspector in the in-service quota after nine years. He worked in the organized crime wing of the Central Crime Branch, Bengaluru, from 2007 to 2009. He served at various places and was transferred to Chikkaballapur circle in April as DSP.
 
 “Balegowda dealt with several important cases reported in Bengaluru during his 7-year stint. He was a quality worker with extraordinary calibre,” said S K Umesh, deputy superintendent of police, (Anekal sub-division). 
 
 He recalled that Balegowda was the person who arrested Kunigal Giri and gang in Andhra Pradesh in 2014. They had committed over 45 robberies in a few months. Balegowda was also part of the team which gunned down Chandru, accused in the abduction and rape case of a MBA student in Electronics City in December 2010.
 
 IGP Alok Kumar said Balegowda was part of the teams that handled major cases in Bengaluru during his tenure as joint commissioner of police (crime). “He arrested Ravi Poojari’s associates in an encounter and cracked a major jewellery heist case in Ashokanagar police station limits,” he added. 
 
 Shivaswamy had worked in various police stations in Kolar, Chikkaballapur and Bengaluru.
 
 
