When you think of Ugadi, the first thing that comes to mind is the Ugadi pachchadi. For Telugu families, Ugadi festivities are incomplete without it. A potpourri of all the basic tastes — sweet, sour, bitter, salty, spicy and umami, this pachchadi is a metaphor for life itself. The five tastes signifying the good, bad and ugly in life are meant to prepare you to face the vagaries, life has in store for you, the coming year. In fact, many believe that the first taste that hits your tongue is an omen for how your year will turn out! So, if the first thing you taste is sweet, it means you’ll have a good year, and if the bitter note hits your tongue first, then you may not have a very good year. Which is why mothers often take care to ensure the banana pieces land first in the mouths of their children. 
While not everyone may take this belief to heart, there can be no denying that the Ugadi pachchadi is more than just a festival speciality. Whether you love it or hate it, every Telugu has stories to tell about the pachchadi. Hyderabad Times listens in as mana Tollywood stars and socialites regale us with delightful tales of Ugadi pachchadi. 
 
 
 When I was in school, Ugadi meant just one thing — summer holidays are round the corner. That thought would make me so happy that I don’t think I paid much heed to the bitter-sweet aspects of the taste of the pachchadi! The belief that the first taste that hits your tongue is what your whole year will be like is something I heard of only after growing up. When you are a child, I guess everything about life feels sweet. So, pachchadi for me was an Ugadi special dish that I loved. In fact, I’d have one full bowl of it and then get some extra made for the evening as well. I love the sweet-sour taste the most; never the bitter. So I’d always spit that bit out. Just like I’d do in real life as well I guess.
 
 Ugadi always brings to my mind many sweet memories:  
 Ugadi pachchadi has all tastes of life, but when it comes to Ugadi, I only have sweet memories. Back in school,we used to have back to back exams during this time so Ugadi came as a respite. It was the only festival that was a school holiday after Christmas. That meant bunking school a day before Ugadi as well and playing cricket with friends on the school ground. The principal used to watch us from his office window but he never said anything.
 
 
 
 The whole idea of Ugadi pachchadi is getting all the six tastes at the same time. To taste everything together is a profound way of making a layman understand that life is not all about sorrow or happiness, it's a blend of all. Don’t brood upon your sorrows because life is not always going to be sorrowful. While growing up, my father used to make pachchadi in my house. And then he used to make small glasses of banyan tree leaves and serve the pachchadi in it. Since I got married, I am the one who makes pachchadi for the entire house. wanted this ritual to continue in my life and I want to pass it on to the next generation. It’s a little ritual I eagerly wait to do. I get a three litre mud pot and make a lot of it so that every single person in my house gets to drink two-three glasses of pachchadi. 
 
 
 
 My grandfather (Late ANR) always used to lay emphasis on Ugadi over the New Year. He used to say that Ugadi was the 
 festival which actually heralded the New Year for Telugu people. We have a mango orchard in our backyard and the Ugadi pachchadi is made from the mangoes. The pachchadi is sent to all our relatives, friends and well-wishers and they send their homemade chutney to us as well. They say that we should sample the Ugadi pachchadi but I gulp down the whole glass of it (laughs). 
 
 
 
 For me, Ugadi is synonymous with the release of my first film Ee Rojullo, which released in 2012. That is what makes the festival special to me because since then, every Ugadi has been a good one. Every year I usually hold a pooja on this day, but this year I have decided to spend some quality time with my family in Cochin. The Ugadi pachchadi with all its flavours, always reminds me that I should be strong enough to face it all. The taste is such that we don’t experience anything else like it all year long.
 
 
 
 Ugadi is a very auspicious festival for me. It's a perfect time for goal-setting although I have never managed to stick to my Ugadi resolutions (laughs). Earlier, all our relatives used to gather on the occasion and spend quality time. Now, life has become so fast-paced and everyone is so busy. I just love Ugadi pachchadi (chutney). It has so many different flavours to it and is symbolic of the different shades of life in general. As a kid, I once tried making Ugadi pachchadi and it turned out to be a disaster. I’ve never made it since and never will. But I sure wouldn’t miss out on eating it though.
 
 
 
 Ugadi has always been close to my heart because it was the only festival where I along with my friends used to dress up in traditional wear. Right from our school days, we would wear the traditional pancha on that day and the tradition continued for 15 years till we moved out of Vizag. It didn’t matter if the rest of the year we wore torn jeans and ratty tee-shirts, on that day we definitely had to wear pattu pancha. Ugadi pachchadi is another fun memory too for me because one year I wanted to try the pachchadi from various homes to see what it would taste like. That was the year I realised it should be eaten as it is meant to be and not like a meal. I would always look forward to eating pachchadi on Ugadi, I could never pick one flavour over another; I always liked it as a whole.
 
