NEW DELHI:   on Friday exhorted the   to immediately reiterate the name of Justice   to the government for acceptance and slap the Centre with a contempt notice in case of further delay in elevating him to the Supreme Court.

 
 AICC spokesman and senior lawyer Abhishek Singhvi urged all political parties, "barring BJP, which is beyond repair," to take a stand on the critical issue of the government threatening the independence of judiciary.
 
 Linking the Centre’s decision to reject the name of the Uttarakhand Chief Justice for elevation to the SC to his 2016 order setting aside the President’s rule imposed by Modi government in the state, Singhvi said, "It is time that judiciary stood firm and told the government it would not fill other vacancies till the collegium’s present recommendation was accepted."
 
 Signhvi went further to say the judiciary should act like former chief election commissioner TN Seshan, who refused to hold elections after the Centre turned down his demand to post hand-picked officers as officials.
 
 Singhvi said the Centre’s aversion to Justice Joseph showed it would only appoint watchdogs and judges who were willing to tell BJP "tussi great ho."
 
 Calling it a watershed moment in judiciary’s history, Singhvi said the SC should reiterate the name of Justice Joseph, which would make the recommendation binding on the government. "If the Centre still delays, then the SC should issue contempt notice to the law secretary," he said, adding the top court must also seek answers from the government on why it sat on the collegium’s recommendation for four and half months. Singhvi said the court should also ask the government why it "segregated" the two names —   and Joseph — recommended together by the collegium.
 
 Singhvi termed the Centre’s decision not to accept Justice Joseph as "content-based assault on judiciary," linking it to his 2016 order setting aside President’s rule in Uttarakhand. He said the hearing in the President’s rule case, in which he represented Congress, saw top lawyers argue for the Centre.
 
 "If the chief justice gives a well-considered judgment, then the winners and losers both should bow to him," he said.
 
 
