JALANDHAR: Criminal gangs have now started exploiting the desperation of young Punjabi men who use services of illegal human traffickers to sneak into Western countries, mainly   and the UK, and are extorting money from their families after confining them in faraway cities.

 After the recent murder in Bengaluru of a 35-year-old Punjabi man from Hoshiarpur district who had been taken there on the pretext of catching a flight to Canada, it has emerged that a major kidnapping and extortion mafia, with operations across many states states, is thriving by posing as illegal human trafficking gangs.
 
 An 18-year-old youth from Nawanshahr in Punjab has revealed that he was taken to Guwahati by a human trafficking gang on pretext of catching a flight to Canada from there. However, in Guwahati, he was confined by the gang which then extorted Rs 19.5 lakhs from his family.
 
 Speaking to TOI on Monday, Jatinder Kumar, a resident of Ballowal village in Nawanshahr, revealed that he was forced to tell his parents on phone that he had reached Canada safely. He was later taken to a lonely place after blindfolding him, apparently to eliminate him, but he managed to escape. Jatinder also revealed that he saw three other youths in confinement at the same place and said one of them was killed immediately after he told his family on phone that he had not been taken abroad, as promised.
 
  
 The   have registered a case of cheating, criminal breach of trust and kidnapping after a preliminary inquiry and two local “agents” — Tejinder Singh of Khamachon village and Mandeep Singh of Dhahan village — have been booked.
 
 According to an FIR registered on the complaint of Jatinder’s mother Kamaljeet Kaur, he was flown to Guwahati on December 9 and was confined by the gang till December 21.
 
 
 
 
 The gang forced him to tell his family during this period that he had reached Canada. It was only when he called home at 11.50 pm on December 21 after escaping from the clutches of the gang that he revealed the truth to his family. “We paid Rs 10 lakh in advance and Rs 9.5 lakh to the local agents after he had called home that he had reached Canada safely,” Kamaljeet told TOI.
 
 Jatinder revealed that the gang had used an app that showed he was calling from a Canadian phone number.
 
 “I saw two more   and a Hindi-speaking youth, who was perhaps from some area near Delhi. We were made to call back home every two-three days and the kidnappers would stand with a baseball bat, a knife and a hot iron in front of us and we were told to inform our families that we were fine. During one such call, the Hindi-speaking youth told his family that he was still in Guwahati. They immediately hit him on his head with the baseball bat and killed him,” he recalled. “One of the Punjabi youths was named Bikram and was from Ludhiana,” he said.
 
 “On December 21, I was blindfolded and driven out in a vehicle for around 15 minutes on a bumpy road and then I was taken out by two men accompanying me. I hit one of them with my elbow with full force and ran away. They chased me, but I managed to escape and hid myself in bushes after reaching a road. I saw a railway policeman and approached him and he later took me to the local police station. I narrated my story to the cops and they helped me to call home,” he revealed.
 
 His escape saved his family from a double tragedy. His cousin too was using the gang’s “services” to sneak into Canada. “My cousin Baljinder had also reached Guwahati to ‘fly to Canada’ next morning and my family immediately alerted him and he could be saved from landing in the criminals’ net. I could also see that the gang’s musclemen were roaming around the police station. My family got my tickets booked and I could return to Delhi.”
 
 After reaching home, Jatinder said he was told by local agents that Bikram and his friend were released after my escape and they had returned home. “I also learnt that two more youths from Punjab were flown to Kathmandu, but their local agent from Punjab realised that they would be killed and made them escape,” he added.
 
 Surinderpal Singh had left his home on December 3 for Canada after he was promised he would be smuggled in for Rs 21 lakh. However, he was taken to Bengaluru and confined there. His body was found on December 6 and only on January 31 his family could know his fate. His brother-in-law Gobind Singh had revealed that two more youths, who had been confined with Surinderpal, had returned home after coughing up a huge amount of money.
 
 
