AHMEDABAD: In Ahmedabad, 15% to 20% of   The coin has been tossed out of favour in several areas of Saurashtra as well. The coin’s bulk, the fear that it will be scrapped by the government, and suspicions about its genuineness have made traders wary of it. As for the banks, they have a specified time for dealing with coins and they don’t accept deposits that comprise fewer than 1,000 coins. These considerations make some traders offer change for even Rs 2,000 rather than accepting  .

  
    regional director J K Dash said that the use of Rs 10 coin was becoming particularly difficult in Saurashtra. The RBI had taken up a publicity campaign to dispel misconceptions, sending bulk SMS to declare that all Rs 10 coins are legal. He said that a meeting was held in Saurashtra and the issue had been sorted out. “However, if problems persist, we will deal with them,” he said.
 
 The RBI has been regularly issuing notifications and advertisements. “Some less-informed or uninformed persons who suspect the genuineness of such coins are creating doubts in the minds of ordinary people including traders, shopkeepers, etc., impeding the circulation of these coins in certain pockets of the country causing avoidable confusion,” one such notification reads. “The Reserve Bank has advised members of the public not to give credence to such ill-informed notions and ignore them and continue to accept these coins as legal tender in all their transactions without any hesitation.” 
 
 It appears though that the RBI campaign has not yet assuaged all apprehensions. Ramesh Kansagara, a trader in  , said: “There are hardly any takers for the coins. The problem started with rumours that efforts were being made to push in fake Rs 10 coins in the market. We stopped accepting the coins then.” 
 
 Kishore Goti, a pharmacist in Rajkot, said “I took 100 coins to the bank. I was told to come after banking hours.” He says he was forced to go twice to the bank to make that deposit. “Since then I have stopped accepting the coins,” he said. “I can forgo Rs 10 or give change for any high denomination notes, but I will not accept the coins.” Alka Shah, a resident of Raiya Road in Rajkot, said that there are different varieties of coins which create confusion. She said that one variant does not have a the rupee symbol. She said some shopkeepers are willing willing to give credit for Rs 10 rather than accept the coins. Even the shop owners at GSRTC bus depots are refusing to accept the coins.
 
 
