JAIPUR: A statewide two-month campaign will be launched for preventing spread of seasonal diseases targeting rural population. While Lok Seva Adalat   are organised by revenue department, the health department is also planning to join in with its own platform to conduct screening of people for hypertension and diabetes along with cholera, heatstroke,  , jaundice and influenza like illnesses. 

 Since non-communicable diseases like diabetes and hypertension are also spreading in villages, the health department will identify such people who are most vulnerable and counsel them for taking precautions. 
 
 The camps by the health department under ‘mera gaon swasthya gaon’ (my village, healthy village) initiative will be organised in all the 9,891 panchayats from May 1 for two months. 
 
 A health department official said that in the next two months, they will reach out to villagers for providing preventive measures to keep a check on the diseases, offer treatment and also make them aware of the diseases. 
 
 The focus will be on encouraging the villagers to quit tobacco, use chlorinated water for drinking, reduce sources of mosquito breeding. The villagers will be made aware about the ill effects of tobacco consumption. Water tanks will be cleaned and chlorination of water will be done by the public health engineering department to prevent spread of water-borne diseases.
 
 During summers, cases of diarrhoea, cholera and other such diseases increase due to contaminated water and stale food consumption. 
 
 Besides, the health department will provide diagnostic test facilities in the camps. 
 
 ANMs and   workers will be roped in who will visit door-to door to identify people needing medical treatment. 
 
 The preparation for the camps will be held at district level as well. Collectors will hold meetings up to April 24 across the state. 
 
 The camps will be organised at panchayat headquarters. Besides, there are 15 other departments who will organise camps in May and June. 
 
 
