HYDERABAD: The summer season could have barely set in, but the annual water crisis has already started to raise its ugly head in the city, particularly along Hyderabad’s upscale IT corridor. And this is evident from the steady stream of water tankers — both government and private — making their way into the   region every day.

 Predictably, locals of the area say that their monthly maintenance bills have increase manifold, burning a hole in their pockets.
 
  
  
 
 “The rain water filters that we had installed a couple of years ago are of no use now. The groundwater has already dried up in the area and now we are completely dependent on tankers. In fact, we need 60 tankers every day to ensure sufficient water supply in every household in our enclave,” said  , president,   in   adding how it has led to an additional burden of ?1,000 per family per month.
 
 Yalamachili feared that the situation would worsen over the next few months — as the temperatures rise further — as the society would then need at least 90 tankers of 10,000 litres. The monthly maintenance per family would then shoot up to ?1,500 to ?2,000 per month.
 
 The residents of Sri Prabhupada Township, Camelot Layout, Sri Ram Nagar (in Kondapur) and Nagarjuna Residency (in Serilingampally) aired similar complaints and added how their dependency on bottled water too has gone up significantly.
 
 “For the last four months, we hardly received any orders. Slowly though, the demand is increasing and each tanker is now making a minimum of six-seven rounds daily,” said Parushuram, a tanker driver at Madhapur Water Station. Other tanker suppliers added that their demands have shot up by 50 to 60 per cent.
 
 Taking advantage of the situation, some local shopkeepers have started selling water at their stores.
 
 “Last year, there was just one shop that installed a water tank outside its premises and sold water at a lower (than the market rate) price. But, now there are four more shops in our colony. There is huge demand for this water as they are selling 20 litre cans for ?15 (usually priced ?40 and above),” said   M, a resident of   in Cyberabad.
 
 
