RANCHI : Ranchi residents celebrated the festival of colours, danced to the tunes of latest Bollywood music and filled the streets with echoes of ' ' on Friday. They also indulged themselves in traditional home-made delicacies like pua, dahi vada and gujiya. 

 "In this fast paced life, it is not easy to get a chance to eat traditional food on a regular basis. Apart from playing with colours, eating special Holi delicacies is my most favourite thing about the festival,"  , a private firm employee, said.
 
 While children celebrated the festival with water, adults preferred to keep it dry, keeping in mind the effect it has on the environment. "Summer has arrived really early this year and we might have to face water crisis in the coming days. The least we can do is save some water by playing dry holi," said Smita Gupta, a housewife.
 
 Roads were empty and people were enjoying their extended weekend on Saturday as well.
 
 Meanwhile, Ranchi sub-divisional officer   conducted raids in various liquor shops across the city to catch hold of people selling liquor illegally. She said, "The raid was conducted to check on three major things - people selling liquor without authorisation, government shops selling liquor more than the MRP and shops selling more than the number of permitted pouches. An FIR has been lodged against two persons who were caught."
 
 On the other hand, the traffic police also conducted a drive against drunken driving on Holi to ensure that the festival was celebrated peacefully. Superintendent of police (traffic) Sanjay Ranjan Singh said, "Only two people were caught drunk driving, which is a good indication as it shows that people are now more aware and they also fear the system. Once they get to know that a drive is being conducted, they do not go out on the streets."
 
 Senior superintendent of police   congratulated all the police officers of the district. He said, "The hard work of all the police stations, police line, traffic pickets, wireless, JAP, SAP, CRPF, SSP and all the jawans led to the peaceful celebration of the festival across the city."
 
 
