JAIPUR: The   ( ) said it has taken cognizance of alleged cow vigilantism and related deaths in Rajasthan, chairperson of the panel Justice H L   said on Friday.

 “We have taken cognizance in some cases of cow vigilantism and related deaths and sought a report from the state government. Once we receive the report, we will issue appropriate guidelines,” he said at a media conference here. He was speaking after a two-day hearing on cases of atrocities against   in Jaipur.
 
 The commission while expressing concern over the tardy implementation of the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities Act) 1989 and the Rules of 1995 said, “There was delay by the state administration to take positive action for redressal of grievance. There was also delay in providing the statutory monetary relief in several cases, observed the commission.”
 
 However, it said by and large, the commission was of the opinion that the state of Rajasthan was taking care of its people, including those belonging to the   (SC) and scheduled tribe (ST) communities, Dattu said, adding that there could be certain lapses in any system, but one could not generalize, he said.
 
 He said on the first day of sitting on Thursday, 169 matters were heard in three court hearings, wherein opportunity was provided to individual complainants and the state authorities to present their cases. The commission felt satisfied in 57 cases and called for further reports in 108 cases.
 
 In one case, a show cause notice under Section 16 of the Protection of Human Rights Act was issued to erring police personnel. In one case, commission recommended monetary relief of Rs 1 lakh for prima facie human rights violation and, in other cases, proof of payment of Rs 3.10 lakh has been received.
 
 On the second day, the commission considered 14 matters during its full sitting. Of these, five cases were closed, further reports were called in five cases and monetary relief of Rs 12.90 lakhs in total was recommended for the victims or the next of kin of the diseased in four cases, said Justice Dattu.
 
 On setting up human rights courts at the district level, Dattu said some states had already established such courts and added that they had written to the remaining ones, asking them to set up the courts at the earliest, in concurrence with the chief justice of the high court of that particular state.
 
 
