PUNE: The lead applicant in the Pune   Rail matter before the   (NGT) bench in Pune has raised a strong exception to a three-member expert committee's final report on the impact of the Metro’s construction on the Mutha river bed. 

 The green tribunal had constituted the committee under National Environmental Engineering Reserach Institute’s principal scientist Ritesh Vijay with Maharashtra State Biodiversity Board’s senior scientist A Benniamin and Maharashtra Pollution Control Board’s joint director Y B Sontakke as the other two members. 
 
 The panel was mandated with a study of the 1.7km river bed stretch through which the metro rail alignment is to pass. It has been opposed by the applicants. 
 
 In its final report submitted to the NGT, the committee concluded that the impact of construction of proposed piers for metro rail on the river hydrology “is insignificant" and that, a total of 32 trees are likely to be affected by the construction work. Of these, 23 trees will have to be scientifically transplanted in the off project site along the river bank, the committee said.
 
 The report, however, stated that the committee could not assess the actual locations of piers and its impact on the river bed and recommended a detailed engineering, micro planning and designing of proposed 100 ft wide road along with Detailed Project Report (DPR). 
 
 Moving a reply to the committee’s final report on Monday, lawyer   and lead applicant Sarang   have contended that the committee has not carried out the assessment in an independent and unbiased manner. The reply stated that the panel has failed to consider the Metro and riverbed road projects cumulatively and therefore, the damages envisaged are only 6% of what would actually happen. "Critical data considered while arriving at conclusions is not correct and factual,” Yadvadkar said. 
 
 Many relevant notifications, policies, studies and Acts are not considered and computation of rise in flood levels (afflux) is wrong as it is not based on factual river width, he added. The matter was adjourned to February 9. 
 
 
