TIRUVANNAMALAI: An election officer (EO) of the agriculture cooperative society in Hindu Religious & Charitable Endowments minister S Ramachandran’s native Sevvoor village in Tiruvannamalai district “disappeared” after receiving the nomination papers from the minister’s close relatives and 10 of his party members on Monday.

 Sources said there was political pressure on the officials. Since it is the native place of the minister, he wanted his close relatives and supporters to be elected unopposed.
 
 Apparently election officer Shankar, who had been deputed from another society, left the office discreetly after receiving the nomination papers from the minister’s maternal uncle   and his supporters. The election will be held for 11 postings in the society.
 
  As per the schedule, the EO should have received the nomination papers from the candidates from 10am to 5pm on Monday. He, however, went missing around 11.30am, said a   worker.
 
 “When we went to file the nomination papers by around 11.30am, we were told that the election officer was not available. We waited for a long time and demanded an answer from the staff in the society. They told us that he had gone to hospital as he was not well,” DMK town secretary Mani said.
 
 Following this, the DMK workers along with the candidates staged a protest on the premises of the society and raised slogans against the minister for meddling in the election and misusing his power. Meanwhile, the candidates affiliated to   (AMMK) waited in silence till around 4pm and left the place disappointed.
 
 Police thwarted an attempt by DMK functionaries to stage a road blockade. Police refused to receive a complaint from the candidates stating that the EO was abducted by the ruling party functionaries.
 
 “We mailed a complaint to the commissioner of the TN state co-operative societies election commission (M Rajendran) around 3pm on Monday requesting him to direct the officials in the society to receive the nomination papers. But there was no response,” said DMK district secretary of Tiruvannamalai (North) R Sivanandam. He added that they had also submitted a petition to collector   and joint registrar (JR) of cooperatives Renukambal who is the election observer. 
 
 However, denying the allegations levelled against the EO,   Saravanan said the EO of the Sevvoor society received 11 nominations on Monday. Also, denying the charges, JR of cooperatives and election observer Renukambal said the nominations had been received from everyone. But collector Kandasamy said they brought the issue to his notice only on Tuesday. “If they had brought the issue to my knowledge before the time of receiving nominations, I would have intervened,” he said. He, however, said they would look into the facts and conduct an inquiry after the elections were over. In case of any violation, they would declare the elections void.
 
 When contacted, the minister said the charges were baseless. “It is a political vendetta against me. I was a member of the society and I am well aware of the procedures. Officials might have refused to receive the nomination papers on the ground that they (aspirants) are defaulters,” said the minister. He added the election process was followed everywhere in the state as per rules and there was no interference from the ruling  . 
 
 Filing of nomination was on March 26, while scrutiny of papers was on March 27. March 28 was the last day for withdrawal of nominations. Polling will be held in four phases – on April 2, 7, 16, and 23.
 
 
