HYDERABAD: To cut down dependence on private transport and encourage transit rides in the form of either  , suburban or bus travel modes with the support of walk and non-motorised transport (NMT), a transitoriented development (TOD) plan is required for a big city

 like Hyderabad, says an expert from the   (NIT)  .
 
 Prof  , head of department, civil engineering, NIT-Warangal, who conducted a study on traffic management and transport engineering systems, has suggested the TOD plan to ease traffic woes and curb pollution. His study focussed on major locations such as   and Hi-Tec City. Stretches such as Nagole-Shilparamam, JNTU-Gachibowli and Gachibowli-Lakdi-ka-pul were also studied.
 
 He submitted the results of the study at the all-India seminar on ‘Transit-Oriented Development in Urban Areas’, organised by the Institute of Engineers (India), Telangana chapter.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Explaining the concept, Prasad told STOI that the TOD plan is basically a mixed use of land for residential and commercial activities that has been designed to reduce the dependence on private transport modes. Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Kochi have been following TOD concept. A TOD is known to be a mixed use of land within 500 metres from transit station and offers a commercial activity too.
 
 Explaining the reason for choosing Gachibowli-Hi-Tec City route for the study, Prasad said, “The locality is spread over 45.73 square kilometres. It is jam-packed with buildings. It is connected with a good transport network such as city buses, MMTS trains and Metro facility.” “In fact, there is a lot of scope to develop the areas as TODs because it contains nearly half of the vacant land to develop the area as semigreen. We have identified 20 TOD areas during our study. Though most of the TODs are developed, we proposed a few more keeping the future in mind,” he added.
 
 A total of 165-km road network, including carriageway, median, footpaths, rights of way (ROW), type intersections and bus route facilities were identified for TODs.
 
 In fact, the National Transit Oriented Development (NTOD) Policy-2014 has clearly stated that residential, retail and office premises should have access to people by walking for a comfortable distance.
 
 “The state government should look into the study report and implement it for the benefit of lakhs of people. It will also help in encouraging people to take to public transport system,” he said.
 
