Ludhiana: Two weeks after TOI highlighted the issue of the state taxation department opening thousands of old cases of VAT returns (as old as six years) of city businessmen for re-assessment, finance minister Manpreet Badal on Wednesday said the department would ban any kind of old assessment and will issue orders in this regard soon after consulting chief minister Amarinder Singh.

 Addressing a meeting of city businessmen, Badal said he is aware of the issue and is against any kind of old assessment of VAT returns.
 
 Manpreet said, “Assessment of old VAT cases is totally illogical and I do not agree with this system and therefore I am going to recommend a ban on this practice with immediate effect. Since the portfolio of excise and taxation is with the chief minister, I will apprise him of the issue and necessary orders will be issued soon.”
 
 Manpreet also said Punjab government does not agree with the e-way bill regulations decided by the GST council. “We are totally against the present rules and regulations of e-way bill which include exemption limit of only up to Rs 50,000 which is very less and needs to be revised.”
 
 The finance minister said, “Even the Union government has now realised that GST framework is very complex and it needs a lot of modifications. Currently, the GST council is considering suggestions given by Nandan Nilkeni about simpler format of GST and I am hopeful it will soon replace the present system and entire taxation system will become relatively easier for the businessmen and other stakeholders as well.”
 
 He also claimed that government is committed to provide power at Rs 5 per unit to the businessmen. “Some last minutes formalities are being worked out by government after which the rates will be reduced,” he said.
 
 He said businessmen will be able to meet officials Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited and other departments during a meeting on March 1 in Ludhiana under his supervision where issues related to industry will be solved on the spot.
 
 Box: ‘I won’t let ghosts trouble you’
 
 During his interaction with industrialists, Badal tried to strike a chord with them by using shero-shayari and attacking the previous Akali regime by taking digs at his own uncle and cousin Parkash Singh Badal and Sukhbir Badal. He said the previous regime has left the present government in misery and under debts due to which several commitments of Congress have not been fulfilled yet. But at the same time, he said, “I will make such a ‘taweez’ for you people that the ghosts and demons (like Akalis) will never come near you.”
 
 
