AHMEDABAD: The release of a Gujarati   from Mandvi town in Kutch who has been in Minab jai in   since 2014, seems to be stuck in red tape, as Iranian authorities continue to prolong his jail tenure despite the only discrepancy regarding his father’s name being resolved. Now, his brother is also in Iran and a Gujarat based sailor’s association has written to the minister of external affairs, Sushma Swaraj, regarding the issue.

 Kasam Jafrabadi, former president of a Gujarat based sailor’s association — who made representation to MEA on Sunday said it seems red tape in Iran is delaying Thaim’s release. “There are so many agencies involved in the release procedure, and they seem to be passing the buck. I wish MEA takes swift action in the issue.”
 
 “Thaim was the sole earning member of his family and his younger brother, who is also a sailor, was taking care of their family. Now both the brothers are in Iran, so the Indian government must take immediate action to bring Thaim back,” Jafrabadi said. 
 
 Umar Saleh Mohammad Thaim, 47, has been in Minab jail since he along with 11 others were apprehended in 2014 by Iranian coast guard for intrusion into Iran’s territorial water. Thaim was sailing from Dubai to Yemen in his vessel ‘Safeena Al Shena’. His family and members of sailors’ associations made numerous representations to ministry of external affairs (MEA) pleading for his release. They came to know that Thaim could not be released due to some discrepancy in his father’s name as recorded on his passport.
 
 After this, Thaim’s family again made representation to Swaraj and decided to send Thaim’s younger brother, Ibrahim, to Iran. He went to Iran on April 15 and resolved the discrepancy in father’s name in Thaim’s passport. Even after that Iranian authorities are not releasing him for one or another reason, said Kasam Jafrabadi, former president of a Gujarat based sailor’s association --- who made representation to MEA on Sunday. 
 
 “We were informed that Umar Salemamad Thaim could not be released along with other two prisoners from Iran Jail due to some mistake in his father's name. Umar’s brother, Ibrahim Salemamd Thaim is currently in Iran since April 15, 2018 for the needed procedure. As informed by Ibrahim, the rectification of the father’s name has been done but the internal procedures are taking a lot of time. We, therefore request you to look into the matter on a priority basis and help us resolve this matter at the earliest,” reads the letter written by Jafrabadi to Swaraj.
 
 
