The long wait for the land acquisition for the   of Madurai International Airport is going to end soon, as the state government has allotted funds. An amount of Rs166 crore has been allotted as per the enhanced compensation for the land owners.

 It is a significant step for the development of the airport as the runway expansion from the existing 7,500 feet to 12,500 feet was hinging on the land acquisition for the past 10 years. Madurai district collector   told TOI that so far more than 3,100 patta owners had been identified and the award inquiry was in the advanced stage. They will get the payment in a matter of weeks, he said.
 
 The collector said that the required land of around 460 acres is being acquired from six villages including Ayan Pappakudi, Kusavankundu and Perungudi. The rest of the total required land of 615 acres is poramboke land. If things fall in place the land would be handed over to the airport in two to three months. "When we apprised the state government of the situation, the government was very positive and processed the fund allocation in a phased manner," he said.
 
 Airport director V V Rao said that they were recently informed about the fund allotment by the revenue officials.
 
 The acquisition commenced way back in 2008. While the work was taking place at a snail’s pace, the land owners had to bear the brunt of the delay, as they could not sell the land even if they wanted do it. The acquisition has gained momentum, when the district administration and the higher officials from the Airport Authority of India (AAI) started pushing it hard recently.
 
 The runway is to be expanded towards eastern direction, where the Ring Road passes adjacent to the airport at the close range. The runway is expected to cut the Ring Road to expand for around 500 metres in that direction. The Ring Road, which connects   with Kappalur, is under expansion at a cost of over Rs 200 crore. The work was started recently, which included the place where the runway is scheduled to be expanded.
 
 Sources from state highways said that the expansion of the Ring Road would not be halted. During the course of the runway expansion, the road would be adjusted in a way that it goes in the periphery of the extended runway. The officials from the Airport Authority of India have agreed to bear some cost towards it, he said.
 
 Senior president of   (TNCCI) S Rethinavelu said it is good that the long pending work is finally taking place and thanked the district administration for the speedy work. He pointed out that it would pave the way for the future development of the airport.
 
 
