BENGALURU: After drawing muck flak and missing many deadlines,  , the city’s most popular stretch, is slated for a grand unveiling by chief minister   on Thursday. And more than anyone, a young man from Goa has spent sleepless nights to ready the stretch, which is perhaps the first cobblestoned road in south India, running from Brigade Road to St Mark’s Road.

  
  
  Kudroli, 23, who took up the task of giving Church Street a facelift after winning a tender floated by   in February 2017, has a special connection with Bengaluru: he did his engineering here and has been glued to the city since. 
 
 “Post studies, I had to return to my father’s construction business, but I didn’t feel like leaving Bengaluru. I managed to convince him that I’d begin my career in the  ,” said Kudroli, whose maiden contract unexpectedly turned into a Herculean task.
 
 Hurdles down below
 
 Hafeez, representing his father’s firm Kudroli Builders and Infrastructures, clinched the bid to redevelop Church Street at an estimated cost of Rs 9 crore. His enthusiasm though was short-lived, after workers disemboweled the famous stretch, baring a pre-independence era mess in the form of old wires, pipes and broken stones. 
 
 “ When I saw what was underneath, I got the shock of my life and wondered what did I even get into. Armed with proof, my team and I convinced BBMP officials that even half the work couldn’t be completed within the stipulated six-month period,” recalled Kudroli, who finally began work after he was granted an extended deadline. 
 
 Trouble though was far from over as an unprecedented downpour halted the project in August and September. Criticism followed regarding tardy progress and the CM himself paid a visit to check things. “I was literally beaten down but managed to buckle up, thanks to 13 engineers and over 150 labourers who stood by me to get this far,” he added.
 
 After 12 months of work and a few missed deadlines, Kudroli and his team have managed to give the stretch the TenderSURE look and make it inauguration ready. 
 
 Cables and power lines now run underground along the shoulder of the revamped street, alongside new pipelines for water and sewage. Chambers have been created underground for WiFi installations so that pedestrians can surf on the go. A dash of greenery will soon be added to all the stones and concrete. The cost escalated to Rs 14 crore.
 
 
