NAGPUR: Indian Army’s Lieutenant General Ravindra Thodge (retd) pointed out loyalty, competence and selflessness are key to serve in the armed forces. The officer was speaking on the topic titled ‘Indian Armed Forces: Hopes and aspirations’ during the Balasaheb Mahajan Memorial lecture at  , on Saturday.

 The programme was organized by  . The army veteran shared his experience of serving in the military and explained to adults and schoolchildren about what one can expect from the forces as well as what the forces expect from an individual.
 
 “Not many people get the opportunity to serve in the armed forces. Those who do are lucky to give their life for their country,” said Thodge. Thodge reiterated the motto of the defence services — service before self — and said, “It is what all soldiers live by along with the fury to overcome the nation’s enemy.”
 
 Thodge explained how competence in the defence works. He said, “You are told to follow orders and provided with training, but you are never spoon-fed. When you are given a task, you are expected to figure out how to execute it.”
 
 He also said that leadership in the army is not limited to top ranks. “Whether you are a sepoy, havaldar, brigadier or general you remain a leader till the day you die. The key aspect of a leader is motivation and all servicemen are always motivated,” he said.
 
 The veteran simplified loyalty and integrity saying “Either people have them, or they don’t, there is no middle ground.” “You have to be loyal to fellow officers, the commanding officer (CO) and your unit. One is also expected to work with the system without manipulating it to your personal advantage,” he added.
 
 Thodge recounted a mission while stationed in Kupwara district, Jammu & Kashmir, where the Pakistani forces were putting pressure on the troops from across the border. “I was the CO of my unit at the time and had received orders to open a new front to defuse the pressure. This meant sending my men down the mountains which would have ended fatally for them. I told the CO of my battalion that I would order my men into the mission even if my career was at stake,” he said.
 
 
