Parenthood for many is the beginning of a new chapter of life and actor   is no different. Swwapnil and wife Leena, recently turned parents for the second time with the birth of  . “We always wanted two kids,” informs Swwapnil, whose elder kid   is now two. For Swwapnil, the birth of their second kid has completed their family. 

 He says, “I am a single child while Leena has a brother. We felt that it is important to have a sibling bond and by all means, Raaghav’s birth has completed our family of four.” Ask him about the reason behind the choice of names of his kids and pat comes the reply, “There is no specific reason. We wanted the names to be unique and relevant even 20 years from now.”
 
 Does the comfort zone help too? “I’d be lying if I said it doesn’t. Working with known people is always helpful. In fact, I can’t work on a film if I am not comfortable with the people in it,” he says.
 
 
  
 
 A slight prodding gets the actor to open up about the film with Sachin as well. “The fact that Sachin ji is like a father to me is irrelevant here. He’s a legend on screen and I have been waiting for quite some time to reunite with him on the big screen. All I can say right now is that it’s a dramatic and intense film directed by Rakesh Sarang and I and Sachin ji will be doing something completely out of the box in it.”
 
 Swwapnil entered film production last year but direction is not on the cards immediately for him. “I believe in never saying never. Direction will happen eventually, but I am not ticking boxes. The reason I got into production is because, as an actor, you can’t tell all the stories you want to, due to various limitations. For example, I loved the story of   but didn’t see myself doing the lead role. I though Subodh (Bhave) would fit the role better. Production gives me that liberty. However, I am more of a creative producer,” he says.
 
 For someone who started out with television, Swwapnil has come a long way. He hasn’t forgotten his roots though. “I am a product of TV and am proud of it. It is a medium that changed a lot in the world. Web series or web-streaming platforms are by-products of this medium. So, whenever I feel like and get a good offer, I will keep going back to the small screen,” he shares, hinting towards something interesting on TV this year too.
 
 
  
 
 Incidentally, while the Mumbai boy is popular across the state, a lot of people think he’s a Puneite. Swwapnil has no issues with that either. “Pune is and always will be special for me,” he says, adding, “Most of my hit films have had a Pune connection. Also, due to MPM, many people still think that I am a Pune boy. I think that’s a big compliment and feedback for someone who has spent most of his life in Mumbai.”
 
