PUNE: The Regional   operating out of a Senapati Bapat Road building at present will move to a new four-storeyed building in Baner around July.

 The announcement came from Dnyaneshwar Mulay, secretary, Ministry of External Affairs and Overseas Indian Affairs on Sunday. He added that the government plans to set up passport offices in every district. 
 
 “The department of posts will provide us space while other infrastructure and manpower will be provided by the ministry of external affairs. We will be able to set up passport offices in each   constituency in the country,” Mulay added.
 
  
 He said delays in police verification was a major hurdle in speeding up passport issuance procedure in the country, including in  . He was in the city to inaugurate his website. 
 
 “To speed up police verification, the ministry as well minister of state for external affairs VK Singh have been meeting police officers of different states regularly. In   and Telangana, passports are issued within a week which is a phenomenal achievement. A similar module will be replicated in other states,” he said.
 
 Maharashtra has scope to improve its record, he said. “On an average, the state takes three weeks to issue a passport which is not a good sign for the people and therefore the state needs to improve,” he added. He said the e-tourist visa on arrival at airports will help foreigners as they will not have to visit the embassy office for documentation. 
 
 In 2008, Tata  , an information-technology company, signed a deal with the ministry to speed up passport issuing. Mulay said, “ The company has contributed immensely and it was necessary to renew their contract till 2020,” he added.
 
 The Comptroller and Auditor General of India’s (CAG) report submitted in 2016 said it took 71 days to issue a passport in 2014, nearly three times the duration fixed by the government.
 
 A senior officer of the Pune police told TOI, “Police verification is the key process. We need to check an applicant’s background and his activities. Therefore, it takes longer. Secondly, manpower shortage at a police station’s level is an issue. Progressive steps like appointing a dedicated police person for passport have been taken.”
 
 
