GURUGRAM:   has resolved to complete most of its projects within four days of receiving complaints or requests. Under the new system which is expected to be implemented by January-end, most of authority’s work will be done online, to ensure residents don’t need to visit Huda office with complaints.

 The Citizen’s Charter lists 32 works related to Huda under it, with 1-2 weeks fixed for each type of work to be completed. Now, except for issuance of completion certificate, most of the work would be completed in four working days. Completion certificates, which earlier used to take more than two weeks to be issued, are now expected to be issued within eight working days. These directions were issued by the Huda chief administrator J Ganeshan, to reduce inconvenience to citizens and to check corruption.
 
 In a move to make the system more people-friendly and to check corruption, the Citizen’s Charter had directed minimising the role of officials in regular work. As a result, junior engineers (JE) will now have no role in issuing transfer permissions, whereas earlier, to transfer a plot from one person to another, one had to make several rounds of the Huda office and grease the palms of officials. Application for such work can now be made from home via an online system, which also allows the resident to monitor its progress.
 
 Huda began considering ending the role of JEs in issuing transfer permission with complaints of corruption rising. Site inspection by JE is now not necessary for transfer permission. “We are introducing computerisation and digitisation in how Huda works. All 32 services provide by Huda will from now on be completed in four days. Only completion certificate will take some more time to process,” said administrator Yashpal Yadav.
 
 Ganeshan had visited Huda’s Sector 14 office to review the working of the authority. At the meeting, Huda administrator Yadav informed his chief Ganeshan that 31,650 files of estate office 1 and 2 have been scanned, with the remaining files to be scanned within next 20 days. For timely disposal of files, the chief administrator directed that all files be disposed online.
 
 Huda was asked to develop a website to accept all kinds of files and verify them without the applicant having to come over to their office. “If everything goes according to plan, any application should be disposed in four working days,” said Huda estate officer 2 Vivek Kalia, adding that even if an applicant wants to visit the authority office, he will get an appointment through the online system.
 
 He added that under the new system, no one will be allowed to visit the office without prior appointment, sought online, and that appointments will be given without delays. Once a visitor reaches the Huda office, they will get a token number on the basis of their appointment, and can wait in an AC room where they can track their token number on a screen.
 
 
