NAGPUR: Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited’s ( ) plan to bring down power expenses has got a setback. The   (MERC) has rejected Mahametro’s petition seeking relaxation in norms for solar power net metering scheme.

 MERC coram — Azeez M Khan and Deepak Lad — passed an order rejecting Mahametro’s petition on January 16. “As far as relaxation of the provisions of regulations for MMRCL is concerned, the Commission notes that Mahametro is not unique in providing public services or performing public functions. There are many others, and discrimination between them cannot be justified. The question of the Commission invoking its power to remove difficulties also does not arise as that is a limited power intended to address problems that arise in the implementation of the regulations as they stand. The Commission is of the view that no modification or relaxation of the capacity limit in the Net Metering Regulations, 2015, is called for at the present time,” MERC said.
 
 Expense on power plays a major role in Metro rail’s functioning, as it comes to 30% of total expenditure. Therefore, Mahametro had planned to generate 23MW solar power — 14MW in phase-I and remaining 9MW in phase-II — by installing rooftop solar power generation systems at its 36 stations, free land area, boundary wall of depots and viaducts.
 
 Under solar power net metering scheme, Mahametro had planned to generate solar power and supply it to Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL). Mahametro was supposed to meet its daytime requirement from its own solar power, and get power from MSEDCL for evening and morning hours. Mahametro could have adjusted its excess solar power against consumption from MSEDCL supply in evening and morning hours. Thus, Mahametro was eyeing reduction in expenses on power. But Mahametro’s solar power generation system was not as per Net Metering Regulations, 2015. Therefore, Mahametro sought relaxation in norms from MERC.
 
 Mahametro MD   told TOI they were prepared for such orders from MERC, so they have already prepared another plan. “We are going to tie up with   (SECI). Agencies associated with SECI will install captive solar power plants on their own cost. The agencies will generate solar power and supply it to us. Cost of power is reducing consistently in this system. Overall power cost will come down if we manage to get low solar power,” he said.
 
 Mahametro is likely to get solar power at Rs4.15 per unit including taxes. MSEDCL’s power is available at around Rs10 per unit.
 
 Dixit added, even solar power cost can come down to Rs3.60 per unit if the state government relaxes taxes. “We will take advantage of consistent reduction in solar power cost. We will install solar power generation systems only as per requirement, and not all at one time as planned earlier,” he said.
 
 One of Mahametro’s directors said they will continue to press for relaxation in net metering norms. “Availing the scheme will make things very easy, and help reduce power expense to a great extent,” he said.
 
 
