Valentine’s Day is here and the world is celebrating love. How about the youth in Kerala? Are love letters and red roses passe? We talk to a few students from the city to know how the celebrations have changed over time.

 
 
 
 
 
 Youngsters today enjoy a lot more freedom on this day when compared with the previous generations. Those who are in a relationship mostly bunk classes and spend quality time in cafes or theatres. While some grab a place at the nearest beach or appear in colour coordinated attires, those who are waiting for Cupid to strike come to colleges and try their luck. For many, it is the D-Day to let their crush know about their liking. Of course, social media is an integral part of getting into a relationship today as status updates and video uploads keep their hopes alive.
 
 
 
 
 Valentine’s Day was all about love letters and roses earlier, and people used to wait for long to give a love letter or a red rose to their crush. Today with the advent of technology, everything including our relationships and celebrations have changed. Youngsters are more open and free and they don’t wish to hide their feelings anymore. They don’t shy away from announcing to the world about their relationship, for we can see a lot of Valentines hashtags and posts about the gifts their beloved has surprised them with. Updating the relationship status is another new trend, and many prefer to flaunt their love life now. They do not want to suppress their emotions. As for Valentine’s Day, students try to be one up on other colleges in celebrations, with couple picture contests and selfie competitions.
 
 
 
 
 
 Valentine’s Day turns out to be eventful in colleges these days. One of the most memorable moments in recent times was when we had a box in which students deposited their love letters, whether it is for a teacher, student from another class or a high-school crush. Towards the end of the day, we read it aloud, and it was exciting. Not everyone revealed their identity though.
 The colour code, that denotes if a person is single, wants to get hooked or not interested, is still trending. People look at the colour of the dress and guess the preference of each this way. 
 
 
 
 
 
 While some still give red roses and scribble their feelings on paper, the majority are not chained by fears or inhibitions. The moment they feel like proposing to someone, they do it, and Valentine’s Day becomes the most appropriate time for it. It is fun to see people baring their hearts and let the world know how much they like their favourite person. That said, many do it merely for the thrill, and may not be all that serious about it.
 
 Coming from the Mechanical Engineering Department, since there are no girls in class, it is ‘Kari Dinam’ for us and we observe it diligently. While the rest of the departments make merry, we have fun in our own way..
 
 
 
 
