He made his debut as a playback singer with Dindukallu Dindukallu from Dindukallu Sarathi in 2007. But he went back to his hometown to concentrate on his own folk music. A few years later, he again made his comeback with   in Soodhu Kavvum that made ‘Folk Marley’   (yes, that’s how he wants to be known as from now on) a household name in Kollywood. After churning hit after hit, what with songs like Kannamma and Pandii Naattu Kodi from Jigarthanda, Domeru Lordu from Jil Jung Juk — he’s now become the toast of the town with   from   becoming a rage among youngsters and music lovers alike. Excerpts: 

 
 
 This is the second time I am working with Anirudh sir. I had recorded Kattikida for   earlier. So, when he called me for another opportunity, I landed in his studio without asking any questions. In fact, I didn’t even know whose film it was until I saw director Vignesh ShivN there. Working with Ani sir is a nice experience. He would give us a lot of freedom, involve us and he lets the song take its shape. We took a lot of time and recorded the song. But I wasn’t sure if they would use my voice for the song. After a few days, they called back saying that my voice is final and asked me to come to the studio for a few corrections. It was then I knew the song is for a Suriya-starrer. Having sung for many top young heroes, it is always a dream for me to sing for senior actors like Vijay, Ajith, Suriya and Vikram. I am happy that I could sing for Suriya. I knew that this would do well, but I didn’t realise that it would become a superhit. I thank Ani sir and Vignesh sir for giving me this opportunity. Sodakku is like my re-entry in Kollywood. 
 
 
 He didn’t come during the recording of the song. They had recorded the promotional video of the song when I had gone there for corrections. Later, when I was in away in Singapore for a show, Ani sir called me up to say that the video was being shot for the song. After several days, I finally got to meet him. He said he really liked it and congratulated me for the number. 
 
 
 Yes. But all of them have different working styles. Whether it is Imman sir, Santhosh sir or Hip Hop Aadhi sir or Ani sir, they give a lot of respect to folk artistes. And every time we collaborate, we, as a team, only want to do better than our previous outing. For me, as a singer who hails from a town, working with these people only enriches my experience in the field of music. Imman usually keeps everything ready before he calls us for recording. And Ani, Santhosh, Aadhi… like to discuss with singers during the session. Eventually, everyone’s focus is to give a good song. 
 
 
 I have been trained in folk music from the time I was a 10-year-old. It has been 30 years of celebrating folk music for me. And I am only happy that cinema, too, has embraced it. There was a period when it was not used that frequently, but now, almost every other album has one folk song. Folk is our native genre and it’s only fair that we get as many people to listen. It is an everyday struggle for folk musicians. I struggled, too. After my debut song, I had to go back to my native place to earn money. And by the time I got back in 2013, people had forgotten who I was. Initially, cinema didn’t pay me well. But now, things have changed. I would only urge people to support them by listening to music made by folk musicians as I know their difficulty. 
 
 
 Yes, it is an active folk music band that I had started to work on my own music. My wife Rita is also part of it. We keep travelling to different cities and perform. I will also debut as a composer in Vijay Tesingu’s Vairi, this year. 
 
 
 Before Tharai… I also did a small role in Jigarthanda. I have also acted in  , which will feature my wife Rita, too. I don’t mind acting. Being a folk artiste, you automatically learn to sing, dance, act and write songs. So, I wouldn’t mind taking up offers. 
 
 
