NEW DELHI: Congress on Monday cited repeated suspicions expressed by the kin of special   judge BH   to push for a probe into his death, saying serious questions hang over the issue.

 A day after the son of judge Loya said the family did not suspect any foul play in the death, AICC spokesman Abhishek Singhvi said   himself sought an inquiry in 2015.
 
 He said two sisters of the deceased judge — Anuradha Biyani and Sarita Mandhane – had expressed grave doubts about the death being caused by natural causes and that too “contemporaneously”. He said the father of the judge too had endorsed the views expressed by his daughters.
 
 Judge Loya was hearing the Sohrabuddin's fake encounter case in which BJP   was an accused.
 
 Congress chief   had on Friday sought a top-level probe into the case after it was cited as one of the reasons behind the virtual rebellion by four senior-most   judges against the Chief Justice of India. Rahul had called it a serious issue.
 
 The opposition party's aggression seems to reflect the view that pushing the case would put BJP on the backfoot since it relates to the saffron leadership.
 
 Quoting from statements made by family members in the wake of judge Loya's death, Singhvi said Anuj's “retraction two years later” had to be seen against the clear views in favour of inquiry expressed by five others in the family. The AICC pointed out that the paternal uncle of the judge had commented that Anuj's retraction “must be under pressure”.
 
 “You have to judge yourself, you have to see the context, the text, the over-all picture and decide for yourself,” he said.
 
 Singhvi said an issue of public interest was not dependent for an inquiry on whether it was asked for or opposed by a relative. “I think every citizen in this country and every political party is independently entitled to ask for a fair and comprehensive inquiry into judge Loya's death,” he argued, adding that his statements had nothing to do with the “Supreme Court imbroglio”.
 
