HYDERABAD: The launch of the   Rail project seems to have positively impacted residential realty markets along the Miyapur-Nagole Metro corridor, shows the latest report published by an online property marketplace.

 According to the report, both   and Boduppal areas have recorded an upsurge in average capital values to the tune of 3-4% between October and December 2017 as compared to the period between July and September, 2017.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Begumpet in   emerged as the frontrunner, recording 5% growth in average capital values in the same period. The report cited a strategic location, sound social infrastructure and robust transport network that includes the recently launched Hyderabad Metro as the reasons for the growth of the realty market in Begumpet.
 
 The report said impact of the much-anticipated Hyderabad Metro project was quite visible on the realty markets along Miyapur-Nagole stretch, particularly Miyapur and Boduppal, with both localities recording an upsurge in capital ‘asks’. While unveiling of the Hyderabad Metro benefitted the city’s real estate sentiment, the continuous delay in setting up a permanent RERA body has tested buyer trust, the report said. However, office space leasing along the city’s IT corridor remained strong and is expected to drive residential sales in times to come.
 
 Appa Junction and   in   also continued to record healthy traction from end users due to affordability and their proximity to employment hubs, showed the report.
 
 Amidst a stable housing demand, the city’s rental segment continued to grow, recording a 4% average growth over the last one year, said the report.
 
 Renowned micro-markets in West Hyderabad such as Manikonda, Kondapur and   witnessed maximum residential leasing activities, also indicating meek buying sentiment. These localities observed rental ‘asks’ that went up by 6-8% over the past one year.
 
 The report, which includes Bangalore, Delhi-NCR, Mumbai, Chennai, Pune, Hyderabad, Kolkata and Ahmedabad, revealed that unsold inventory at 16% was highest for luxury residential segment in Hyderabad, showing lack of appetite for this segment.
 
