LUCKNOW/MEERUT: The Bharatiya Janata Party on Tuesday announced its candidates for byelections in   and Noorpur seats. Banking on the sympathy factor, the party has fielded Mriganka Singh, daughter of late MP Hukum Singh, from Kairana, and Avani Singh, wife of late MLA Lokendra Singh, from Noorpur. The polling will be held on May 28. 

 Hukum Singh was   MP from Kairana, while Lokendra Singh was party's MLA in Noorpur.
 
 The two candidates will be up against a belligerent joint opposition - SP backed RLD candidate Tabbassum Begam in Kairana and RLD backed SP candidate Naimul Hasan in Noorpur.
 
 Talking to TOI, Mriganka Singh who lost to SP's Nahid Hasan in the 2017 assembly polls and is now pitted against his mother in the LS bypoll, said, "Today if Kairana has begun living without fear of criminals then a large part of credit goes to my father who raised the issue of exodus of more than 250 families from here, in 2016. Now, at least 15 of those families have returned to the town. And to make it happen, UP government and police have played a major role in it."
 
 In Kairana, both the families have a bitter political rivalry that often gets polarised on religious lines. In the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, Hukum Singh got 5,65,909 votes and had defeated Nahid Hasan by a margin of 3,26,828. Nahid Hasan then defeated Mriganka Singh by 21,162 votes in the 2017 assembly elections. 
 
 When asked to comment upon the political rivalry with Hasan family, she said, "There is no denying the fact that this family directly or indirectly patronised criminals that led to very serious law and order situation in Kairana, so much so that traders had begun moving out of this crime-infested area. Now it's people's choice who they vote for. In the just first year of the Yogi government, we have given results in terms of improving law and order and ensuring development. Several police encounters and elimination of dreaded criminals have certainly increased trader confidence."
 
 In Noorpur, Lokendra Singh's wife Avani Singh, who is fighting her maiden polls, said, "I am thankful to the BJP which has given me the ticket to fight the bypoll. I am also getting full support of the voters and I am sure that I will win the poll. I will fulfil the dreams of the people of my constituency."
 
 
