LUCKNOW: In a word of advice to the people of   and its people, vice-president M   said that all those with licenced weapons should give them up. 

 "I want to tell the chief minister that in UP, many people have weapons. I have never understood why one would need a licensed weapon. On whom are these weapons to be used? At times, people use weapons on themselves," said Naidu, addressing a gathering at the inauguration of UP Diwas and laying the foundation of projects worth Rs 25,000 crore at   here on Wednesday.
 
 Naidu also said: "Whoever is residing in the country is living in Hindustan. Hinduism is a way of life and this feeling should be in every person. There should be no caste or religious bias."
 
 Of the several challenges the country is facing, many are in UP, the vice-president said. He added that law and order in UP should be a priority for the state government.
 
 "To begin with, illegal weapons should be taken back from the common man," he said. "I know many people would be unhappy with my advice,"   said, adding that they must be thinking what will happen to them.
 
 
 
 
 Nothing will happen to you. If people do not have weapons, there will be no danger,” the vicepresident said. Stressing that dealing with the issue was not easy, Naidu went on to say that the government was handed down problems in a state with a huge population.
 
 “UP’s second biggest problem is casteism and politics of religion and money. The state has to be freed from such taboos,” he said.Hailing Yogi as a workaholic who had taken the pledge to develop the state, Naidu said that development and good governance should be the priority of the UP government.“Everyone should be taken along,” he said, going on to define Ram Rajya.“Ram Rajya means a land free from casteism and communal agenda,” he said.The VP invoked BJP patriarch   and his words that ideal behaviour was more important than ideology.
 
 He added that the word ‘Hindu’ was not a religious one since ancient times. The country’s name is Hindustan and the same has not been given by either him, Atal Bihari Vajpayee or Yogi Adityanath, Naidu said, adding that in Pakistan, people would say a person has come from Hindustan.
 
 The VP also said that Lord Ram, who was significant to even south Indians, should not be associated with a religion.This is why Mahatama Gandhi talked about establishing Ramrajya. “Leaders in the south have Ram in their name. MG Ramachandran is one of them,” he said.He went on to mention leaders such as Babu Jagjivan Ram, Kanshiram, Ram Vilas Paswan and Ramgopal Yadav who have Ram in their name.“Communist party leader   has both Lord Ram and Goddess Sita in his name,” Naidu said.
 
 Exhorting ministers, officials and others to follow principles and values, he said that they should keep four Cs in mind. These were character, calibre, capacity and conduct. They should stay away from corruption, caste and cash, he said.
 
 ‘One must know Hindi to progress’
 
 Vice-president Venkaiah Naidu said that in his childhood, he had even taken part in anti-Hindi agitations. However, when he came to Delhi, he realised that “in Hindustan, it was not possible to progress without speaking in Hindi.”
 
 
