KAKANI (GUNTUR): Chief minister   here on Saturday spoke about the   for the first time after it was presented on February 1.

 Addressing a meeting after laying the foundation-stone for the JNTU campus to be built at a cost of Rs 150 crore, the chief minister said that he had aligned with the BJP only for the development of the state. He said the Congress had done injustice to the state during bifurcation while the BJP had promised to do justice.
 
 Naidu said TDP had entered into electoral alliance with BJP only to ensure that justice is done to the state and its people. However, BJP had failed to do justice to the state even after four years, he said observed, “Justice to the state is not reflected in the Union Budget. I am speaking on behalf of five crore population of the state. The   should fulfil all  ,” Chandrababu Naidu said.
 
 He further said that he had visited the national capital 29 times, requesting the Union government to fulfil the promises. He said his party MPs are fighting for the state and there will be no compromise on protecting the interests of the state. He said he would continue his protest until justice is done to the state. However, he said, his protest would be strategic so as to protect the interests of the state and get benefits to the people.
 
 Naidu said the government and the people did not celebrate the State Formation Day after bifurcation as injustice was done to them. However, he did not remain silent depending completely on the Union government for the development of the state, he said and asserted that he had done his best in the last four years inspiring people and officials and inviting investments from across the world.
 
 However, he regretted the attempt of some political parties to derive political mileage from the situation, while some others are asking him for accounts on central funds. He said he is answerable to the people and would do everything without compromising with any party in the larger interests of the state.
 
