Coimbatore: With protests against the copper plant of Sterlite, its subsidiary, claiming 10 lives in the port town of Tuticorin, the Vedanta scrip slumped on the bourses. The stock, which was down 3.6% in early trading in a flat market on Wednesday morning, lost 6.2% to close at Rs 252.7 on the BSE. It plunged 7.2% to end at Rs 250.5 on the National Stock Exchange. Vedanta’s market capitalisation fell by Rs 6,255 crore or about $920 million on Wednesday. Sterlite's plant in Tuticorin has the capacity to produce 4 lakh tonnes of copper per year. The company owns one of the two custom copper smelters in India. The other major custom copper smelter in India is operated by Hindalco Industries. “Sterlite accounts for about 8%-10% of the consolidated profit before tax of the Vedanta Group,” said G Chokkalingam, founder, Equinomics Research and Advisory. “The risk (downside) to the stock can be up to 10% if the plant is not allowed to start again,” he said. “A prolonged shutdown (of the copper smelter) will have an adverse impact on the stock,” said Kishor P Ostwal, MD, CNI Research, an equities research provider.  Vedanta’s reported EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation) would decline 5% to $3.6 billion from $3.8 billion if the plant is shut down for a prolonged period of time, Moody’s Investors Service estimated. According to International Copper Association (India), Sterlite had a 33% market share by sales volume in fiscal 2017, which ended on March 31, 2017. UUK-based Vedanta Resources had announced on April 10 that the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board rejected the companyit’s application to renew its right to operate its copper smelting facility in Tuticorin. The facility has been shut down since March 27when it began a 15-day scheduled maintenance turnaround. Sterlite had announced plans to expand production capacity at Tuticorin, doubling it to 8 lakh tonnes per annum, by adding a second copper smelter. At the end of 2017, the company had spent about 15% of the second smelter’s $576 million projected cost.