This February, ‘Dekh Behen’, a bilingual play in Hindi and English, is all set to hit the Mumbai   scene. Interestingly, the play which features Mithila Palkar in the lead, is an all-women production, with female actors, writers, directors and technicians!

 Co-written by actors Dilshad Edibam Khurana and Tahira Nath Krishnan and co-directed by Prerna Chawla and Shikha Talsania, the four women have once again come together after their last play, ‘Bayan’ . Apart from Mithila, the cast also includes Ahlam Khan Karachiwala, Astha Arora, Dilshad and Tahira.
 
 The kitschy, light-hearted story revolves around five bridesmaids, who are catching up hours before they are to put up a rehearsed item number at the Sangeet function of a big fat Delhi wedding. It’s a bittersweet comedy about daughters, girlfriends, mothers, sisters, wives, and getting through one bloody ‘shaadi ka function’. 
 
 Sharing their experience of collaborating on the project, Dilshad tells BT, “Writing is tough work! But it was so much fun writing with Tahira because we know each other's strengths and weaknesses pretty well, which made the process quite smooth. It helped that the play is about a group of women, a topic not too far from our hearts, so dialogue writing came quite naturally to us.” 
 
 Tahira adds, “It was like an army training camp. The coach, our producer, pushed us to take laps around the same field so many times that we vomited this play out in the end!” Says Prerna, “These women are amazing and superbly cast. Shikha and I good friends and work well together. There’s nothing preventing me from having a blast.” Shikha echoes, “It's a dream come true to make my directorial debut with such a talented bunch of women and our fantastic producer. Collaborating with them been amazing experience.”
 
 Akarsh Khurana, the founder of the theatre group which is producing the play, shares, “In 2008, we opened a play called ‘All About Women’, with an all-female cast, which was one of our first big successes. It went on to do over 60 shows. In 2011, we performed another all-female short play called ‘Santa's Little Call Girls’. ‘Bayan’, too, has been a rage because it depicts women in a very uninhibited manner, where they speak their mind, peppered with some very obscene language, which is natural but perhaps not seen enough. I wanted to do a full length play that had the same abandon and showed all sides of women, and not just stereotypes.” 
 
 
