BHANDARA/MUMBAI: In a major boost for   and former BJP MP   who has joined Congress,   (67) emerged victorious, trouncing his   by a margin of 48,097 in the  , which was held over May 28 and 30. He will remain in office for less than a year.

 The result is a big jolt to CM Devendra Fadnavis and Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari, who had held public meetings in the constituency. 
 
 The bypoll recorded a low turnout of 50% and was marred by EVM malfunctioning. Re-polling was ordered in 49 of the over 2,100 centres. 
 
 Though caste was a factor—Kukade is a Kunbi, who are mainly farmers, and Patle is a Powar—there was a a general resentment against the government, especially among farmers, due to falling rates of paddy, which was hit by a major pest attack. Poor rainfall in 2017 also flared up anti-incumbency. Fadnavis claimed the drought was the only reason for BJP’s defeat. He said had the elections been held after monsoon, the result would have been different.
 
 Terming the victory a result of joint efforts by Congress and NCP, Patel said: “BJP...may be rejoicing over its victory in Palghar, but it must realize that... only because of division of votes between other candidates, it won there. The party’s defeat in other bypolls indicates a complete failure of the government.” NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik said Kukade’s win has vindicated Patole’s stand. “Patole had quit the Lok Sabha to protest against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and now the people of Bhandara-Gondia have defeated the BJP nominee. People have accepted the stand taken by Patole against Modi,” he said.
 
 NCP and Congress admitted that BJP won in Palghar seat owing to the failure of the like-minded opposition parties to put up a common candidate against BJP nominee Rajendra Gavit. “We wrested the Bhandara-Gondia Lok Sabha seat since all opposition parties supported the NCP nominee,” said state Congress president Ashok Chavan. “In Palghar, we should have approached BVA and Communist Party to support the Congress nominee or supported their nominees.”
 
 
