MUMBAI: To create infrastructure for electric vehicles, Tata Power on Monday launched two more electric vehicle charging stations – one at   in   and another at Phoenix Market City in Kurla (west). 

 This takes the number of charging stations in the city to three. The first was set up in Vikhroli in August. 
 
 Two more charging stations are slated to come up, one at   and the other near   in Borivli in a few weeks, sources said. With the Union government encouraging shift to electric vehicles by 2030, power utility firms are setting up a seamless network of electric charging stations. 
 
 Tata Power CEO Anil Sardana said: “The newly installed chargers will enable electric car users to charge their cars at any time safely and conveniently. Chargers can also monitor car battery-charging status and units consumed while charging acar.” 
 
 The battery electric vehicles which could benefit in Mumbai are Mahindra e2o, Nissan Leaf among a few other brands of cars, sources said. 
 
 The initiative also has the support of the government, which waives taxes for electric vehicles to encourage more buyers. 
 
 “The aim is to build anetwork to help the country achieve its ambitious plan of a ‘mass-scale shift to electric vehicles’ by 2030,” an official said. 
 
 According to transport experts, there is an urgent need to create green infrastructure to power motorists for a long and safe drive besides wooing others to turn to environmentfriendly vehicles. 
 
 “We should not just have CNG, but also electric cars in Mumbai and this will ensure zero
 emission. The Union government too wants electric cars to hit roads in a big way in the next decade,” said transport expert Jagdeep Desai. 
 
 Power utility firms were also exploring options to set up charging points in Mumbai, sources said. 
 
 A BEST official said that transport undertakings including BEST, MSRTC are keen on launching electric/hybrid buses. Power utility firms are also in talks with   and BMC to promote charging facilities at public parking places, sources said.
 
