In the latest episode of Rani  , Prassanamayee visits Gadadhar’s house. She wants to feed him payesh expressing her love. But she is stopped by Soudamini’s aunt due to the caste difference. To everyone’s surprise,   takes the bowl of payesh (a sweet recipe) and starts eating. Prasannamayee is very happy.

 Meanwhile at Rajchandra’s place Notun Thakurmoshai (Krishnakanta) and   are seen discussing about household matters. Suddenly a man from outside informs them that some people are agitating. Some people have fallen sick after having lunch at Rashmoni’s place. Expressing fake concern for Rajchandra, Abhay blames others for the incident. 
 
 Local people are very angry and they allege that poor quality food was served to them since they are destitute. Rashmoni is shocked to learn this. 
 Rajchandra faces the angry mob and tries to explain them that fresh food was provided to them. Abhay orders the guards to forcefully stop the mob. Rajchandra scolds him for showing such insensitivity. The crowd gets offended and heads back. Rajchandra who is trying to manage the situation starts feeling unwell and falls unconscious. 
 
 Gadadhar’s parents are seen discussing about the miraculous activities happening around the child. Rashmoni faces stiff criticism at home for her initiative to feed the destitute. 
 
 Abhay is happy to see his plan working. Rajchandra is unwell and Rashmoni feels guilty for the entire episode. Rajchandra’s mother gets extremely anxious seeing him in this condition. 
 
 A group of sanyashi visit Gadadhar’s place and his parents feel pleased by their presence. Meanwhile, Gadadhar miraculously saves his mother from a scorpion. 
 
 Rajchandra wants to arrange medical help for the people who fell sick due to the alleged food poisoning. Rani Rashmoni and his mother try to stop him. He takes Krishnakanta and other employees with him. On the other hand, Abhay meets   and informs him about the people's agitation. 
 
 Bachashpati Moshai meets Rajchandra on his way and reminds him about the curse. Rajchandra is seen taking Kobiraj Moshai with him to treat the people. Bachashpati Moshai humiliates Rajchandra publicly.
 
