MALAPPURAM: The call for a ‘janakeeya hartal’ in protest against the rape and murder of an eight-year-old girl in Jammu-Kashmir disrupted normal life in the state, especially the northern districts. While Kozhikode, Kannur, Malappuram, Palakkad were the worst affected, some pockets of Thiruvanathapuram were also hit.

 Police have arrested many and investigation has been initiated into the communal angle to the hartal call, which has not been owned up by any political party. Commercial establishments remained closed in many places and road traffic was affected. Though the hartal call was being circulated through social media for the past couple of days, people considered it a hoax. Only when they came out they realized the hartal was real.
 
 In Malappuram, hartal supporters blocked vehicles and forcefully closed shops from Monday morning. KSRTC buses and private vehicles were attacked. Violent protesters staged blockades on rural roads,   highway and national highway 66 and police resorted to lathicharge to disperse protesters at Ponnani, Kondotty and Manjeri. The protesters attacked two KSRTC buses and many shops in Tanur town. Police used tear gas shells and grenades to drive the mob away.
 
 District police chief Debesh Kumar Behra clamped prohibitory orders on Monday afternoon, in areas coming under Tanur, Tirur and Parappanangadi police station limits. More than 150 people were arrested in connection with hartal-related violence, under different police station limits. A statement issued by the district police said that prohibitory orders were clamped for seven days following the recommendation made by special branch in light of the widespread protests which led to violence in coastal areas of the district.
 
 Malappuram DSP   said that police suspect clear planning behind the violence. “The nature of protests and the participation of large number of people raise suspicion that the protests were pre-planned,” he said. The cyber wing of police has already started investigation into the social media intervention by the hartal supporters.
 
 Meanwhile, Indian Union Muslim League state general secretary KPA Majeed issued a statement saying that the party has no connection with the hartal and blamed the hartal as an effort to divert the peaceful protests against Kathua murder.
 
 In Kannur, a group of people stormed Kannur Town police station demanding the release of the arrested hartal supporters. Following this, nearly 30 protesters were arrested. In Thaliparamba, the hartal was near total and shops and establishments remained closed.
 
 “There seems to be a communal angle to the hartal and most of the hartal supporters on the streets were activists of political parties associated with one religion, and we are investigating from where the hartal call originated,” said district police chief G Siva Vikram. Around 200 people have been apprehended in many parts of the district, he added.
 
 
 
 
 In Kozhikode, the hartal supporters, unleashed violence at Mukkom, Koduvally, Beypore, Feroke among other areas. Traffic was disrupted at many places near Koduvally, Mukkom and Thamarassery. Traders were also forced to down their shutters at Palayam, Atholy, Koduvally and Mukkom. Areas such as Mukkom, Koduvally, Poonoor, Ummathur, Madavoor, Korangad, Thachampoyil remained tense. Over 20 hartal supporters were arrested from Atholy, Marad, Mathottam and other places.
 
 “Most of the people engaged in hartal-related violence are supporters of  ,” said a police officer. Thrissur and Palakkad districts also witnessed violent incidents.
 
 The ‘unofficial’ hartal turned violent in several parts of Thiruvananthapuram. Cantonment police arrested four youths for forcefully closing shops in the city. Police said the youths came under the banner of a Facebook collective and their political affiliations were unknown.
 
 Meanwhile, BJP state president Kummanam Rajashekharan filed a complaint to the DGP demanding probe into the violence happened in the name of the hartal.
 
 CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan said certain militant outfits were trying to create communal divide in the society using the Kathua incident. “The entire world is protesting against the perpetrators of the heinous crime in Kathua. A few vested interest groups are unleashing violence here. If someone feels like organizing a hartal on the issue here, he/she should consult with all and make it a joint protest,” he said in a statement.
 
 LDF convener Vaikom Viswan said that terrorist organizations were behind the hartal. He said that it should be probed whether the police and the intelligence had failed in dealing with the hartal.
 
 Meanwhile, DGP Loknath Behera said that strong action would be taken against those who unleashed violence in the name of hartal. The DGP said that necessary steps would be taken to prevent anti-social elements from exploiting such situations in the future, Behera said.
  
  
  
 
