CHENNAI: The crucial meet of chief minister   and deputy chief minister   with   functionaries at the party headquarters on Friday took serious note of allegations that district secretaries and other   bearers were forcing partymen to cough up money to land government jobs, especially as noon meal workers, said highly placed sources in the party.

 The two-hour long discussion mostly veered around the new membership drive underway in the party. The party has set a target of enrolling 1.5 crore members. “Those who attended the meeting raised concerns about partymen being forced to pay bribe for securing lower-level government jobs. The leadership took serious note of the charge and said such practices would being only bad name to the government, because after all, noon meal workers are given very low salary. It was also resolved to fill up such vacancies with AIADMK cadres and their family members. Office bearers have been told to treat party card holders with dignity,” said a senior leader who attended the meeting.
 
 The party membership drive began on January 29. Going by the party bylaw, organizational election has to be held every five years. Elections in the AIADMK are due next year and the senior leaders are a worried lot after rebel leader T T V Dhinakaran’s resounding victory in   byelection. His influence has been increasing in the party in recent weeks. Continuing expulsion of party office bearers is testimony for that. Friday’s meeting, surprisingly did not see heated exchanges between the two groups led by EPS and OPS. Nevertheless, many leaders like V Maitreyan, Natham Viswanathan, P H Pandian and   in the   camp seem to have expressed their displeasure over not being invited for such crucial meetings of senior leaders. “They were not invited because they are not party office bearers at present,” said a senior leader.
 
 Sources said the party has decided to form permanent booth-level committees for better coordination and management, especially keeping elections in mind. Elections for local bodies and cooperative societies are round the corner. “We lost the R K Nagar bypoll due to lack of organised party machinery at the grassroots level. Booth-level functionaries will help oversee the party affairs much better. They will also interact closely with voters,” another leader said.
 
 Anticipating early elections for the  , the party functionaries were told to gear up for the same. All the functionary slots rendered vacant because of expulsion of Dhinakaran supporters would be filled up shortly, said the leader.
 
 
