GHAZIABAD: A   fell to his death from the balcony of a   in   on Wednesday. The child, Rudraansh, lived in KW Shristi apartments with his parents in a flat in Tower E.

 While nobody is sure how he fell, police speculate that Rudraansh either lost balance while riding his bicycle on the balcony around 5.30 pm or had climbed on top of the bicycle and was looking down and fell. He was a nursery student of Springdales Public School in Sector 23 of Sanjay Nagar. 
 
 Praveen Pradhan, a resident of the housing society, told TOI, “The railings of balconies in these flats are not of adequate height. We had complained to the builder and GDA on several occasions to raise the heights of the railings to ensure safety for residents and children in particular. After toppling across the railing, the boy fell on the extended balcony of the second floor flat directly beneath the flat in which he lived. A resident living in another flat on the second floor of Tower E spotted the child lying on the balcony and alerted others.” 
 
 The boy’s father, Ravindra Kakran, who works in a private firm, was not at home and his mother, Renu, was in another part of the house and had no idea when the child fell. The boy’s uncle, aunt and grandmother were also in the house.
 
 The family of the boy belongs to Kandhla town of Muzaffarnagar district in UP. According to the police, Rudraansh was rushed to a private hospital where he was declared brought dead. “The parents of the child had not informed police about the death. They refused an autopsy examination on the body,” said a police officer.
 
 Within a span of a little over a month, there have been at least three cases of children falling to their deaths from highrises in Ghaziabad, including Rudraansh’s death. 
 
 On February 19, a four-year-old girl died after falling from a 10th floor flat in Jaipuria Sunrise Greens housing society in Indirapuram. A 14-year-old girl studying in Class VIII succumbed to her injuries after falling from a sixth-floor apartment in Shipra Krishna Vista housing society of Indirapuram on February 26. 
 
 Six days ago, a 15-year-old boy studying in Class IX of a private school was critically injured after he fell from the fourth-floor terrace of a residential building in Shipra Sun City while trying to evade a monkey.
 
 
