Mumbai: The Bombay high court on Tuesday slapped a fine of Rs 30 lakh on public-sector electricity major   ( ) for “raising untenable challenges” to resist and delay in complying with an arbitral award passed against it 14 years ago.

 Justice Gautam Patel came down heavily on the PSU and its officers for wasting judicial time by filing untenable applications to question the attachment of three of its bank accounts. The court directed MSEDCL to pay the fine with 10% interest to DSL Enterprises, a spin-off from electronics manufacturing major, Datar Switchgear (DSL).
 
 DSL was awarded about Rs 180 crore by an arbitrator in 2004 after being locked in a commercial dispute with the erstwhile   ( ) for over five years. The case, which has had a chequered history, has seen the HC also censuring MSEDCL previously, and dismissing its petitions with costs.
 
 In 2009, the HC had dismissed a challenge by MSEDCL to the arbitration award and imposed a fine of Rs 1 lakh. The court had made scathing observations against MSEDCL. It said that despite pleading a “strain on public resources” it is “seen to have challenged the award without any justifiable ground and only to delay the inevitable payment under the award”.
 
 The state company had allotted a bid to DSL in 1997 — a work contract to install about 48,000 low-tension switched capacitors on its distribution network throughout the state. The installation was to be completed within six years.
 
 However, disputes arose in 1999 when DSL alleged breaches. MSEB invoked arbitration in April 1999 and terminated the contract. While DSL claimed Rs 1,053 crore, MSEDCL put a counter claim of Rs 1,273 crore. The award finally was in favour of DSL, when the arbitrator held MSEDCL to be in the wrong and had also imposed a cost of Rs 1 core for having dragged the arbitral proceedings for five years, and found that documents were tampered and not disclosed by its officers.
 
 The state company had challenged the arbitral award and eventually lost. By then the payment with interest had escalated to Rs 246 crore. At various stages, the MSEDCL had been directed to give bank guarantees. Finally, in January 2018 the SC also dismissed its challenges to the award. DSL counsel Rafiq Dada and Mukul Taly pointed out on Tuesday that they had yet to see the colour of money free of any conditions. Last month however, MSEDCL finally deposited almost Rs 150 crore in the HC to have the attachment removed.
 
 Justice Roshan Dalvi in the 2009 HC order had also said, “It is seen that the breach has been committed by officers of MSEDCL. The evidence led before the learned arbitrators as well as the reference in the award, point to the dirty malaise of corruption which has permeated into every fibre of our country and corroded its character to the core... It would do well for the petitioner to recover the amount lost to the petitioner (MSEDCL) by way of damages by the maleficent act of its officers from their earnings and benefits. Indeed, the public need not pay for the actions of the officers of the petitioner, who may be found to be in breach of for reasons not within the course of their duty and for omissions despite specific directions.”
 
 In 2013, MSEDCL’s appeal also plunged into darkness as the HC appeal bench of justices V M Kanade and K R Shriram held it had “miserably failed to establish that the award was against public policy or patently illegal”.
 
 
