On October 1, 2015, Karnataka forest department officials seized   bones from a person near Biligiri Ranga Temple Tiger Reserve in Karnataka, close to the highway bordering   (STR). It was suspected that the tiger was killed in Sathyamangalam for its hide and claws. Forest department officials, from Karnataka and Tamil Nadu arrested five more people in this regard and filed cases against them. Even though the case is pending in court, it surprisingly doesn’t find any mention in the records of tiger   with the Tamil Nadu forest department. With another suspected death due to   reported on January 22, activists say if steps are not taken for a fair enquiry into such cases, poaching may go on unnoticed.

 Conservations say, while poaching is rampant in these forests, cases stretch due to the nexus of poachers and informers in both states and jurisdictional problems that arise out of it. 
 
 Karnataka forest department officials on October 1, 2015, arrested Selvaraj, a resident of a village near Mettupalayam in TN for possessing tiger bones. During interrogation he confessed that the bones were from a forest in TN. Karnataka forest department officials said the accused was attached to Wildcane, a Karnataka-based NGO funded by Wildlife Conservation Society, and was backed by another Ooty-based NGO in collecting tiger parts. The members of the suspected NGO didn’t appear even though the Karnataka forest department had issued them a notice. The department arrested two more people in this regard. 
 
 On October 18, 2015, forest officials nabbed another accused, a Sholaga tribal, who helped officials recover the remaining bones of a tiger from Thalamalai range of forests in STR. Officials later arrested two more locals in the case, recovering 17 tiger claws from one of them. 
 
 Even though Karnataka forest officials say the enquiry was over, a petition filed in the Madras high court by a lawyer requesting transfer of the case to TN, has been keeping the case pending. The accused are out on bail. 
 
 In a similar incident, tiger skin, allegedly poached in STR was confiscated by the Karnataka police on January 22. Cases were registered by forest departments of both states and 10 arrests were made. "Karnataka police and forest officials and recovered the carcass of a tiger that was snared from STR and tiger nails and teeth from one of the accused’s residence. The spot mahajar was signed by the TN forest officials," said a wildlife activist based in Karnataka. 
 
 C H Padma, deputy director, STR said, "We arrested Siddappa from the same village of the first three accused. Based on his confession we arrested five more people, including two from Karnataka and confiscated a few bones and a tiger claw". Padma said a prisoner-in-transit warrant has been requested from Karnataka officials to bring the accused arrested by Karnataka police for interrogation and transfer the case to TN. 
 
 Puniti Sridhar, principal chief conservator of forests, Karnataka said, "Tamil Nadu and Karnataka forest departments, besides the Karnataka police, have been requested to cooperate in proceeding of the case."
 
 K Kalidass, president, Osai, an NGO concerned with wildlife attributed the complexities to the forest departments’ promotion of "informers". "These informers should be arrested first." T P Raghunath, principal chief conservator of forest and chief wildlife warden (TN) told TOI, "The forest department will have to tighten the information channel both inside and outside so that these kinds of incidents do not take place. Field security also has to be strict."
 
 
