Jaisalmer: There is huge scope in oil and gas sector in Rajasthan and in the new oil fields, the auction will take place according to the new policy on January 18 in which many oil companies and investors from India and abroad have shown interest and have applied for blocks. Jaisalmer, Barmer and Jodhpur districts in western Rajasthan will become the new hub of petrol and energy production, said Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan while talking to media here on Sunday. He was in Pachpadra to review the preparations of PM Modi’s visit on January 16 at Pachpadra.

 He said lakhs of people will get indirect employment after the refinery is set up in Barmer, of which 10,000 people will be employed at the work site this year. Along with refinery, petrochemicals set up will be made in which small factories of medicines, textiles, plastic pieces, petrol, diesel, LPG, aviation fuel etc will come up and huge production will take place.
 
 “Barmer has huge reserves of oil and at present country’s 25% demand is being fulfilled by Barmer. A refinery here will ensure development and prosperity for Barmer, Jodhpur and Jaisalmer,’’ he said.
 
 Pradhan alleged that Congress had cheated people of Rajasthan and showed them the dream of refinery, which remained on paper till now. “There was no clear plan and the former Congress government did not take any permission. It signed an MoU of Rs 3,700 crore and Vasundhara Raje government reviewed the MoU and protecting the interest of the state signed a new MoU of Rs 1,100 crore,” he said.
 
 Commenting on former Congress CM Ashok Gehlot, he said now Congress will not get any place to hide its face and if Gehlot calls him for tea then he would make him understand that how he has cheated the youth of Rajasthan.
 
 “A new chapter will be written on January 16. We are going to create new story of development for securing the future of youth. Modi has been requested to start this new chapter and he has accepted it,” he said. He claimed that the BJP government in the state had worked and planned the refinery in a systematic manner, ensuring that it gets the required permission.
 
 
