ISLAMABAD: Former Pakistan Prime Minister   has for the first time publicly admitted that Pakistani terrorists were involved in the  , while questioning why   and nine others "were allowed to cross the border" to carry out the carnage in Mumbai in 2008.

 
 "It's absolutely unacceptable (not acting against non-state actors who carry out terror attacks in India). This is exactly what we are struggling against. President Putin has said it. President Xi has said it," the ex-PM said in an interview to Pakistan's leading English daily Dawn.
 
 The former PM focused on the complicity of Pakistan in the 26/11 terror assault on India's financial capital by sidestepping a question on what according to him was the reason for his ouster from public office. He steered the conversation towards foreign policy and national security. "Militant organisations are active. Call them non-state actors, but should we allow them to cross the border and kill 150 people in Mumbai? Explain it to me. Why can't we complete the trial?" he asked, referring to the Mumbai attacks-related trials which have been stalled in the anti-terrorism court in Rawalpindi. Although he chose to describe Kasab and others as "non-state actors", he also seemed to acknowledge the complicity of government agencies in letting the Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists reach Mumbai.
 
 Kasab and his fellow Lashkar jihadis had set out from Karachi after they were rigorously trained by Lashkar handlers, which included at least two serving officers of the Pakistan army. Sharif also stressed that the country had "isolated" itself in the international community by not acting against terror organisations.
 
 "We have isolated ourselves. Despite giving sacrifices, our narrative is not being accepted. Afghanistan's narrative is being accepted, but ours is not. We must look into it," Sharif said.
 
 A Pakistan Muslim League (Nawaz) stalwart told TOI that when Sharif became PM for the third time in 2013, he was determined to minimise the army's role in Pakistan's foreign affairs but had to give up at every step.
 
