HYDERABAD: Justice P Naveen Rao of Hyderabad High Court on Tuesday imposed a fine of 1 lakh on a builder for constructing a five-storey building in   in an unlawful manner. Builder   was charged with going ahead with the construction in over 16000sqft despite a restraint order from the court. In the HC, GHMC counsel   argued that such brazen violations done with impunity should not go unpunished and builders with similar intentions must take a lesson from this example. The judge said the penalty amount should be spent on greenery in the area and left it open for GHMC to proceed with demolition of the structures in accordance with law. The errant builder was convicted in a contempt case and the penalty was in lieu of the jail term. 

 Khan, a resident of  , had constructed a cellar and a 5-floor building at   in Gachibowli without the required permission. To browbeat GHMC officials, he filed contempt cases against them. GHMC commissioner, B  , then filed a contempt plea against the errant builder, stating that he had flouted norms of GHMC Act by raising an illegal five-storey mansion without permission, misled the court and also went to the extent of threatening GHMC officials with contempt cases.
 
 GHMC counsel   told the court that Khan had constructed a cellar and the 5-floor building at Anjaiah Nagar in Gachibowli by misusing the online application facility and the building regularisation scheme. Despite the authorities rejecting his permission, he went ahead with the construction of the building. When GHMC officials sought to take action against the illegal structure and its owner, he approached the court and obtained a status quo. Though a status quo means no further construction and asking both the parties not to move further, the builder constructed a few more floors.
 
 The judge too turned critical about the way the builder illegally constructed the structure and intruded into 200-feet master plan road. 
 
 Janardhan Reddy in his plea to the court stated that Khan had obtained two orders from the HC without revealing the real picture and was taking advantage of the laxity shown by GHMC's field-level staff.
 
 The GHMC plea further stated that initially the builder's grievance was that GHMC had not accorded him permission for ground and first floor, but after obtaining orders from the court, he constructed cellar plus five floors. His application for permission shows his area as 1,152 sqft, whereas his completed structure now occupies a whopping 15,171 sqft, which is a clear violation of status quo order of the court.
 
 
