GURUGRAM: In a crackdown on   in new sectors of the city, the enforcement wing of department of town and country planning ( ) demolished over 500 structures in sectors 81-95 this week. Between Monday and Wednesday — structures built along sector roads, unplanned pockets and on land acquired by   for sector roads — were demolished in one of DTCP’s biggest drives in recent times to check unplanned development in new sectors.

 “The unplanned construction in these sectors was hampering planned development, besides being a security concern for residents who had recently shifted to these sectors,” said district town planner (enforcement) Rajendra T Sharma, adding their action against unauthorised construction in sectors 81-95 is a pilot project, to be followed by action against illegal construction in other new sectors along   and Dwarka expressway. 
 
 He said the demolition drive will continue till the entire area is freed of encroachments and unauthorised constructions. “Drives will be regularly carried out in areas comprising of land within the revenue estate of villages Shikhopur, Badha, Siknderpur Badha, Hayatpur, Wazirpur, Nawda Faithpur, Mewka, Dhorka, Babrauli and adjoining areas,” said Sharma.
 
 He said unlike in older sectors, the department won’t allow any unplanned development in the new sectors. “We’ll keep on taking action against illegal structures to ensure planned development of new sectors as per the Master Plan,” said Sharma, adding they had gone ahead despite “immense pressure” not to demolish illegal structures. Assistant town planner Narendra Kumar said demolition was carried out after a detailed survey and following due process of law. “Few offenders had also approached the DTCP and managed to get stays over the demolition notice we had issued. The drive was carried out only after the tribunal decided in our favour,” he said. 
 
 Sharma said there are a few more offenders who have approached the civil court to obtain stays, which are being dealt with by his office, and would be demolished in future drives after the stays are vacated. During the drive, 250 unauthorised shops, 200 illegal hutments and 25 eateries along roads dividing sectors were demolished. 
 
 
