Madurai: Dressed in green silk and mounted on the golden stallion with sword, Lord Kallazhagar made a grand entry into the flowing Vaigai near Azhwarpuram in Madurai early on Monday morning as the huge crowd which thronged the river went into raptures. Slogans of ‘Govinda – Govinda’ and the song – Vaaraaru Vaaraaru – ‘Azhagar Vaaraaru’ from the movie ‘Kallazhagar’ rent the air.  Lord Azhagar, who left his abode of Azhagarkoil hills three days ago, arrived at Thallakulam Karuppannasamy temply by 1 am on Sunday, from where he proceeded to river Vaigai and entered it by 5.50 am. Lord Veera Raghava Perumal who arrived from South Masi Street with his silver stallion has been waiting for an hour to welcome Kallazhagar. Thousands of devotees witnessed the event by standing hip-deep in the water on the Vaigai while several lakhs stood near the AV Bridge, Azhwarpuram and adjacent areas. Apart from Madurai, devotees from Sivagangai, Theni, Ramanathapauram and Dindigul too had started thronging these spots from Sunday night itself.  This year, Azhagar’s entry was remarkable and a treat for the devotees as it was after two years that water was flowing in the river. The water, which was released from the Vaigai dam on the instructions of the state government, reached Azhagar’s entry spot by 1 am on Monday. Taking a symbolic cue from the green silk that the deity wore, devotees hoped that the year ahead would be prosperous and ‘fertile’. “Our forefathers have said that green, yellow, red and white silk cloths have been kept in a wooden box for Azhagar to adorn and a colour would be selected randomly from them. Every colour would be indicative of the outlook for the year and the green silk indicated that it would be prosperous and fertile for farmers. Yellow meant that the year would see auspicious events while red stood for absence of peace. White cloth meant that the year would be neutral,” K Rengarajan (78) of Moondru Mavadi said.  Once the deity left Vaigai after its 80-minute-stay, thousands invoked their vows by tonsuring their heads and taking holy dip in the Vaigai and by dressing up like Kallazhar. People distributed food, buttermilk, soft drinks and ice cream along the entire stretch of Azhagar’s journey. Another major event of giving salvation to sage Manduka will take place at Thenur near Sholavandan on Tuesday.  Legend has it that when sage Sudhapas was undergoing penance in the Noobura Gangai (holy water) of Azhagarkoil hills, another sage, Thurvasar, arrived. Since Sudhapas failed to notice him, Thurvasar cursed and turned him into a manduka (frog). When Sudhapas prayed for relief, Thurvasa asked him to undertake penance on river Vaigai, where Lord Kallazhagar will give salvation to him.  Accordingly, the salvation ceremony has been taking place at Thenur near Sholavandan during Azhagar’s visit to the river. It will take place on Tuesday.