NEW DELHI: Prime Minister   on Tuesday launched a campaign to eradicate tuberculosis (TB) from India by 2025, five years ahead of a globally set deadline. He was speaking at the inauguration of the Delhi End-TB Summit.

 
 “A target has been set to end TB globally by 2030. I would like to announce that we have set aim to eradicate it from India five years ahead by 2025,” Modi said.
 
 He laid stress on analysing the situation and changing the approach, saying that efforts to curb tuberculosis have not yielded desired results yet. State governments have a major role to play in elimination of TB from the country, he added.
 
 
  
 
 India accounts for one-fourth of the global incidence of TB cases. Every year, nearly 28 lakh people develop TB, of which about 0.87 million are infectious cases. It has been estimated that annually around 4.8 lakh people die of TB in India. 
 
 “I have written to all chief ministers to join this mission,” Modi said. He further said that TB was the most prevalent among communicable diseases in India and the poor were the worst affected by it. Every step taken towards eradicating the disease was directly connected to their lives, he added.
 
 The PM said the government was moving ahead with the principle of “treat every TB patient the best at the very first opportunity” and was roping in the private sector as well. Listing out the steps taken by his government, Modi said flagship programmes like   and providing LGP connections for a “smokeless kitchen” under   would also reduce the dangers of contracting the disease. The PM said his government’s thrust has been on technology and innovation in this field to better drugs, diagnosis and treatment of the disease. To boost research,   has also been set up, he added. Noting that TB was associated with social stigma and patients often hesitated to reveal their disease, Modi said that willpower was key to win over the disease.
 
 Targeting the previous governments, Modi said an immunisation programme has been going on for the last 30-35 years and despite this, the country could not achieve the target of complete coverage till 2014.
 
 The PM also urged the ministry of health and family welfare to expand the ambit of research on traditional medicine in curing tuberculosis and share the results with other nations. Leaders from across the globe have converged in the national capital for the summit hosted by the Union health ministry along with WHO and the Stop TB Partnership.
 
