Want the latest buzz on the gossip front? A peep into the lives of the rich and famous? A wind of Chennai’s best-kept secrets? Writer, activist, anchor, and queen bee   fills you in with all that and then some in this   

 
 Why’s everyone on the social circuit on a crash diet? Nina Reddy’s doctor daughter,  , is having a dream destination wedding and all the socialites are on a shopping spree and hitting the gym. Some are on crash diets to be able to flaunt their bods by the poolside at Langkawi.
  
  
 
 This fashion-exhibition lady, it seems, is the root cause of some serious malicious goss in the city. On the pretext of inviting people to her fashion showcase, she strikes up a friendship and then bad-mouths people. Last heard, she was heard making calls to all and sundry speaking about how a luxury designer bag brand has roped in a young, relatively unknown woman to do their guest list. She even claimed, “I am the one helping her”. Even if it were true, why put down someone trying to enter a tough market? In the past, this lady has been at the centre of many a controversy involving loaned cash and making a hoopla nuisance of herself through conference calls. 
 
 
 The family beach house of VJ-turned-actress   Reddy is now up for grabs for the bridal market, we hear. The sprawling bungalow, at which the fashionista has thrown many a snazzy party, is now available for events.
  
  
 
  is a danseuse who has broken boundaries with her raw sensuality and couture gowns in her dance routines at sabhas in the city. But did you know she loves to treat her guests to healthy quesadillas, sandwiches and burgers with a distinct south Indian twist? Her kitchen churns out something called idli-sandwiches for her international guests. She hosted a charity sale at home and most of the turnout came back the next day for her treats and some shopping. 
  
  
  
 No, this time, it's not for any fashion event or a high-profile show. The calls are flying thick and fast for VIP invitations for the   set to happen in Chennai. Top cops and bureaucrats, not to mention politicians, have started receiving calls requesting for VIP passes for the expo that’s to happen in Chennai from April 11
  
  
 
 Top actor whose wife is a serial producer bailed out a cast member on her TV serial when real cops turned up on location to arrest an actor dressed in cop’s uniform. The scene was being shot on ECR and the actor was enacting his scene with minimal crew, shooting with a small camera from within a car. A police jeep stopped the shoot and tried to arrest the actor, as it is illegal to wear a cop uniform in public places unless you are from the forces. The top actor intervened and called a high-profile minister to bail out this prominent cast member on his wife’s serial. 
 
 
