PANAJI: The Special investivation team (SIT) investigating the Rs 35,000 crore illegal mining scam has decided to file an additional chargesheet in the case. A senior officer said investigation has been completed in two of the main illegal mining cases, and it would be filed soon. 

 He said that it was found during investigation that many dumps have been handled at various sites across the state and that crores worth of iron ore have been exported from these sites, causing losses to the state exchequer. While mine owners have already been questioned in the case, the officer said, “If required, we will call them again before filing the chargesheet.” 
 
 Recently, the SIT had filed a chargesheet before the special court against former chief minister  , government officials and others for allowing condonation of delay in filing application for renewal of mining leases, which resulted in a loss to the state exchequer worth Rs 135 crore. 
 
 During the course of the investigation, the SIT had arrested bureaucrats and iron ore traders, who were later released on bail. On July 26, 2013, the department had filed a criminal complaint in the case with the crime branch, seeking that it fixes criminal liability against those involved. The department had also requested police to file an FIR against persons identified in the reports of the Supreme Court-appointed Central Empowered Committee, the Shah Commission and the  .
 
 On August 19, 2013, crime branch registered an FIR against politicians, bureaucrats, mine owners, mines department offiIcials and others identified in the three reports. The SIT is looking to expedite investigations in the matter. The FIR was registered under Sections 120(b) (conspiracy) and 166 (public servant disobeying law) of the Indian Penal Code, Sections 13(1) (d), 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, the Mines and Mineral Development Act, Mineral Concession Rules, Mineral Conservation and Development Rules and the Goa (Prevention of Illegal Mining, Transportation, Storage of Minerals) Rules, 2004.
 
 
