PANAJI: A mainstay of Goa’s economy, the closure of   operations is going to hurt the state for the second time in a decade. The Supreme Court’s scathing judgment will extract a heavy economic price and could not only lead to a Rs 400-450 crore revenue loss for the state government over the next two years, but it will also impact allied industries and rural employment.

 Stakeholders estimate that mines and mining equipment could lie unused for the next two years before mining operations resume in the state.
 
 Iron ore exports have been Goa’s biggest economic contributor after tourism in the past few decades. 
 
 Until 2012, the state was India’s largest exporter of iron ore, exporting as much as 54 million tonnes in a year largely catering to China.
 
 “Considering this judgment, it will be very difficult for the mining sector and the economy,” chartered accountant and president of Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry Sandip Bhandare said. 
 
 “The Budget exercise will be more difficult because the chief minister will not be able to count on the mining revenue. On the other hand, he will have to be compassionate towards the affected sectors.”
 
 The economic survey shows that Goa earned Rs 244.9 crore just as royalty in 2016-17 from iron ore extraction and exports. Since 2015, when iron ore mining resumed in Goa, the state has collected Rs 118.7 crore for Goa Mineral Ore Permanent Fund.
 
 After the iron ore mining ban was imposed in 2012-13, Goa’s GSDP stood at (minus) -1.96%, but recovered to to 15.3% due to strong tertiary and secondary sector.
 
 Stakeholders point out that once iron ore mines shut down, tertiary sectors such as vehicle service stations, petrol pumps, small family run eateries, spare part stores and rural grocery stores will suffer.
 
 “Even considering the subdued market, it is $600 million revenue on an annual basis, which works out to roughly Rs 4,000 crore. Though profitability is very little, the money was moving about in the economy and it has a multiplier effect,” former executive director of Vedanta Group and mining veteran Prasun Kumar Mukherjee said. “Direct impact of this on the government is a revenue decrease between Rs 400 crore and Rs 450 crore.”
 
 With trucks and heavy machinery going off roads, demand for diesel and petrol will drop, affecting VAT collections in the state.
 
 “For 2018-19, not much revenue can come from the mining sector. In fact, the government may have to spend more to support the mining affected individuals,” Bhandare said.
 
  or NCAER and other organisations estimate that there are between 11,000 and 30,000 individuals employed directly and indirectly in mining activities.   director A K Banerjee said the complete stop on mining activities will affect those employed in mines as companies may choose to lay-off workers.
 
 Mukherjee said it could take as long as two years for mining operations to restart and till then the state’s economy will go through turmoil. Consumer goods, passenger vehicles, real estate, logistics, shipyards and even banks will see a significant impact on their business.
 
 “To my mind, even if it has to restart, it will not be possible before two years. For auction, you need to prepare. You need to have exploration data, there will be third party survey and then it has to be uploaded and approved. The miners who win the auction will then have to take environment approval,” Mukherjee said.
 
