NEW DELHI: The Delhi   on Monday sought to know the   of   in the event court remits the issue of   of AAP MLA’s back to the  .

 “We don’t want anyone to draw conclusions please,” a bench of justices Sanjiv Khanna and Chander Shekhar however cautioned the lawyers for the EC and the former MLAs, making it clear it hasn’t made up its mind on the case but wants to elicit a response from the parties on the principle of violation of natural justice.
 
 It said the parties must address this aspect on the next hearing.
 
 Meanwhile, the Election Commission continued its arguments to defend its disqualification decision and shared confidential documents with the court.
 
 It justified the recommendation made to the President to disqualify the MLAs’, arguing that “they were involved in the day-to-day administrative functions of the ministers, with whom they were attached. They were not entitled to look into the executive works of the ministers.”
 
 EC also said it wants to hand over documents including “personal notings” on the decision making file related to disqualification proceedings held in the poll panel to explain its conclusions.
 
 “We are claiming privilege over these confidential documents, so we cannot supply them to the petitioners (20 AAP MLAs),” poll panel's counsel Amit Sharma said, while producing the papers in a sealed cover before the bench.
 
 The bench then asked Sharma to take instructions if the documents can be supplied to the legislators after concealing the privileged portions.
 
 HC is hearing the plea of the disqualified MLAs, found guilty of holding office-of-profit as parliamentary secretaries to ministers in the AAP government after it came to power in 2015. The ex law makers had approached high court challenging their disqualification after President Ram Nath Kovind gave his nod to the EC recommendation.
 
 The high court had on January 24 refused to stay the Centre's notification disqualifying them, but had restrained the poll panel from taking any “precipitate measures” such as announcing dates for by polls to fill the vacancies. EC had recommended the disqualification of 20 AAP MLAs on January 19. The President had accepted the EC’s opinion the very next day.
 
 
