Nagpur: “Several mothers are dying due to inadequate treatment for post-delivery bleeding,” Dr Kshama Kedar told TOI. Dr Kedar took charge as the president of National Association for Reproductive and Child Health of India’s Nagpur Chapter, at a ceremony hosted at a city hotel on Sunday.  Outlining aims for the year, Kedar said that preventing deaths caused due to post-partum haemorrhage (PPH) is one of their major projects. PPH is loss of more than 500ml or 1,000ml of blood within the first 24 hours of childbirth. “The post-delivery bleeding is a killer. To prevent it, we need to conduct regular check-up of the mother. Usually, a mother is fit until the end stage of pregnancy but may later develop complications such as anaemia, high-blood pressure, diabetes or hypertension, which leads to post-delivery bleeding.  “If they are booked at the hospital, they should go there and get themselves checked. We can save a mother only if everything is under control,” she said. Once the baby is taken out of the uterus, the uterus normally contracts. If it doesn’t contract, it will start letting the blood out of the body. This causes the patient to immediately go into shock, which requires immediate blood transfusions. If not treated, the patient may die. There are three types of PPH, explained Kedar. “One is atonic PPH, where the uterus becomes flappy. Other type of PPH is traumatic where the patient goes into a state of trauma. The third type of PPH, called secondary PPH, leads to bleeding after two or three days of delivery.” In order to promote awareness regarding the issue, the society is going to appeal to the masses by organizing a marathon, said Kedar, adding that they are also training traditional birth attendants like nurses, who can conduct delivery.  “We are strengthening doctors of rural hospitals. The department of public health will appoint a medical officer so that we can impart training about essential obstetric care.” “Each and every woman is prone for PPH,” said Dr Alka Mukherjee, adding, “Anyone can bleed to death. We usually arrange blood for every patient during delivery. If this is not done, a patient deteriorates.”  Dr Nirmala Vaze was inducted as national president elect, Dr Dipti Kiratkar and Dr Vaidehi Marathe as vice-presidents and Dr Alka Mukherjee as secretary. Dr Anuradha Shrikhande, dean, IGMCH, was the chief guest. Dr Shakuntala Chhabra, professor emeritus of Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences was the guest of honour.