VADODARA: The next time you visit  , you can view the exquisite paintings on the ceiling and walls of the grand building built by  . 

 For the first time since they were made in 1940s, the paintings made by famed artist Nandlal Bose are being restored. The restored paintings will revive Kirti Mandir’s glory and give art-lovers a peek into the rich art legacy of Bose, who decorated each page of the Constitution of India book after the independence.
 
 The royal Gaekwad family has joined hands with Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH) to conserve and restore the rare paintings. Also, the Switzerland embassy is providing expertise for the project. “The paintings are rare and are next only to Raja Ravi Verma in terms of significance. Some of the paintings had suffered damage due to water seepage in the building. We decided to restore them as they are a part of our rich heritage,” said Samarjitsinh Gaekwad, royal scion. 
 
 While the Swiss embassy has sent in its experts from the Bern University of Arts, INTACH and Indira Gandhi National Centre of Arts (IGNCA) too will be providing their expertise for the restoration and conservation. The cost of the project is being borne by Swiss embassy INTACH, IGNCA and   family. Bose was commissioned by Maharaja Sayajirao to decorate the Kirti Mandir in 1939 and he worked on the assignment in four different periods till 1946.
 
 The intricate paintings that are of egg tempera in nature depict the life of Mirabai, battle of Kurukshetra in Mahabharata, Gangavatarna – emergence of the River Ganga – and Buddhist story of King Bimbisara. “We came across these beautiful paintings during a documentation of such artworks that we did across the country years ago. So, we discussed the restoration and conservation of the paintings with the Gaekwad family. Then we got into touch with the Swiss embassy for help,” said Nilabh Sinha, principal director, INTACH Conservation Institutes. 
 
 The team of experts has already eliminated the cause of the leakage and is now working on the paintings. “We will try to restore them as close to their original version as possible. A team of students from the fine arts faculty of M S University too has been invited for the project,” Sinha told TOI. While the Swiss experts will stay put in the city for five days, the other team will work on the project for next four weeks. 
 
 A five-day workshop including talks and practical demonstrations of the paintings restoration and understanding the problems and its solutions has also been organized at Kirti Mandir. 
 
 
 
 
 It was built by Maharaja Sayajirao Gaekwad III in 1936 to perpetuate the memory of his ancestors. Members of the royal family are cremated in an open ground behind this grand building and the ashes are preserved in separate rooms. The E-shaped structure has a beautifully carved 35-metre tall ‘Shikhar’ that represents the sun, moon and earth along with an undivided map of India. It is located on the banks of Vishwamitri River.
 
 
 
 
 Padma Vibhushan Nandlal Bose was one of the pioneers of the modern Indian art and is known for beautifully decorating each page of the original Constitution of India that was handwritten. Bose also drew the emblems for the highest awards given by Indian government such as Bharat Ratna and Padmashri. Born in 1882, Bose, who was principal of Kala Bhavan, Santiniketan, was known for his Indian style of paintings. His works were influenced by murals of Ajanta Caves.
 
 
