NAGPUR: The irrigation department’s wayward plan to develop a beach and concrete structures in   lake bed to make it a tourism hotspot has threatened the existence of 350-year-old historic water body, which is spread in 1,305 hectares.

 For the past few months, the irrigation department has started construction of beach and machans in the bed, which also one of the paths for wild animals to reach the lake to quench thirst. Entire construction activity is going on under the DPDC funds without any sanctioned plan and scientific basis. It will change the ecological character of the biodiversity-rich lake.
 
 The works are in complete violation of Wetlands (Conservation and Management) Rules, 2010, that were amended in 2017. Both, the old and new rules call for wise use of the wetland and the plan shall include objectives of site management and actions required to maintain its ecological character within the context of sustainable development.
 
 Navegaon Bandh in Gondia is a Centrally and state government notified lake and the rules are applicable to it. However, executive engineer HY Chhaparghare said the works were taken up before the new rules came in September 2017.
 
 Chhaparghare was shy of sharing detailed plan of the project but said a beach is being constructed on the lines of ‘Choupati’. There will be machan sittings and water safari through jetties. “All the works are in land owned by the irrigation department surrounded by   National Park,” said Chhaparghare.
 
 The lake and area falls in Navegaon-Nagzira Tiger Reserve (NNTR) buffer zone but as the area has not been handed over to wildlife the tiger reserve officials are helpless. They admit that constructing beach would destroy the lake’s sanctity.
 
 Rupesh Nimbarte, president, Hirwal Bahuudeshiya Sanstha, Gondia, has lodged formal complaints with forest minister  , forest secretary, PCCF (wildlife) and district officials but action has not been initiated due to alleged political pressure.
 
 Nimbarte said the lake is known for Indian and migratory birds and was once a hotspot for sarus cranes, which are only found in Gondia district. Even MP  , in 2012, had demanded to declare the lake as a sanctuary as it played host to over 300 species of birds. 
 
 “Almost 60% of the bird species found in Maharashtra have been recorded at Navegaon. There are also otters in this lake, which are on verge of extinction. In 2013, the lake was also proposed to be notified under Ramsar site, which is designated as lake of international importance,” said Nimbarte.
 
 The Hirwal chief said, as per rules, any construction of a permanent nature within 50m from the lake is not allowed. “At Navegaon Bandh, construction is done right at the spot where lake water accumulates in case of better rainfall,” he alleged.
 
 Interestingly, in 2010, Navegaon Bandh was part of the National Wetland Inventory & Assessment (NWIA) project of the MoEFCC. Even Shrinarayan Patil Dongarwar, whose forefathers constructed Navegaon Bandh, sad the lake has a highly productive ecosystem which supports rich biodiversity and provide a wide range of ecosystem services such as water storage, water purification, flood mitigation, erosion control and aesthetic enhancement of landscape.
 
 “I have stopped going to the spot as I feel like crying when I see such development for selfish gains. On one hand, government is talking about lakes conservation and on the other, it is destroying them,” said Dongarwar, who still has his roots in Navegaon.
 
 Gondia district collector Abhimanyu Kale said, “The project is being implemented under DPDC on irrigation land, but I will certainly look into the issue, especially when the lake is notified by the Central government.”
 
 History of Navegaon Bandh
 
 Navegaon Bandh lake was constructed in the beginning of 18th century due to water shortage in Gondwana kingdom. In order to overcome this shortage, queen of Gondwana, Rani Durgavati, called upon specialists from Rajasthan to make lakes in Gondia-Bhandara districts. They worked hard and constructed many lakes in the area. Some of the specialists got settled in Gondwana and acquired land from queen. Kolu Patil Koli was one of them who built the lakes. Navegaon lake is said to have been built by him. 
 
 
