LUDHIANA: The tussle between the municipal corporation Ludhiana and A2Z waste management over power tariff has ended thanks to the intervention of the chief secretary and state authorities. On Friday a meeting was called by additional chief secretary D P   in which   officials, representatives of A2Z and Powercom officials participated. The major issues have been resolved and now an affidavit will be filed with the   (NGT) through chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh as   had given the responsibility to him. 

 The major point of contest was the dispute over power tariff between A2Z and Powercom against production of power supply from   plant. Since this matter is pending in  , both parties have been asked to wait for the orders of SC. 
 
 Another point was pending grant from MC for the construction of the compost plant and MC has agreed on payment within three months. The MC is supposed to pay Rs 4.89 crore to A2Z but meanwhile the latter will submit the action plan to improve the solid waste management system in the city. 
 
 The MC has imposed heavy penalty on A2Z for not implementing door to door garbage lifting in the entire city. The A2Z requested the state authorities for not imposing this penalty claiming they tried to implement the process but stepped back after private garbage collectors protested against the move. The MC officials now have been told to either help A2Z in implementing door to door or not to impose heavy penalty. 
 
 Similarly the MC officials have given their consent for the construction of the road leading to   garbage dump till March 31, another demand by A2Z officials. Due to poor condition of the road it was getting difficult for the garbage lifting vehicles to reach the dump. The MC will also ensure repair of 10 secondary garbage lifting points which are in pathetic condition. The next date of hearing with NGT is on January 16. 
 
 One of the MC officials told that the issues have been almost resolved and in principal approval has been given. He shared that the chief secretary will sign the proceedings of the meeting followed by which decisions will be implemented.
 
 
