RAJKOT: Tension mounted in   taluka of   district on Sunday after police were forced to lob 62 teargas shells to disperse a huge mob of farmers from 12 villages, who are opposing construction of lignite-based power plant of Gujarat Power Corporation Ltd (GPCL).

 Nearly 700 people from 12 villages of Ghogha and Bhavnagar talukas took out a rally on 15 tractors and 100 bikes from   village to Badi and Padva villages where the power plant is coming up. The farmers, who had earlier opposed the GPCL move to take possession of their land, had planned to storm the construction site located between Badi and Padva villages. However, the situation turned explosive when they tried to barge into the construction site to stop the work.
 
 “The large group of people forcibly tried to enter the site and halt the construction work. Though we had deployed around 100 policemen to avert any untoward incident, there was friction between farmers and cops as they did not heed to our requests not to barge into the site. We had to resort to lathicharge and lob 62 teargas shells to control the situation. Five policemen suffered minor injuries in the clash,” said R P  , police sub-inspector, Vartej.
 
 The farmers, including women, sat on a dharna near the site and said they won’t relent till the construction of the plant is stopped.
 
 Narendrasinh Gohil, a farmers’ leader, said that nine people, including a seven-year-old child and two women, were injured in the police lathicharge. “There were just eight women cops. The male cops manhandled the ladies who were part of our group,” he alleged.
 
 GPCL has acquired 1,415 hectares of government and private land in three mining blocks — Ghogha-Surka, Khadsaliya-I and Khadsaliya-II, of the total 2,980 ha required for its 500MW (2 X 250 MW) lignite-based power plant several years ago. The company plans to acquire the remaining 1,565 ha in phases once the power plant, which is to be set up by GPCL subsidiary Bhavnagar Electric Company Ltd ( ), is fully commissioned. The land was acquired from 1,250 farmers in 12 villages of Ghogha taluka about two decades ago. The government has acquired the land in Badi, Padva, Hoidal, Malekvadar, Morsal, Thoradi, Rampar, Surka, Alapar, Khadasaliya, Thadsar and   villages.
 
 On April 1 too, police had to lob nearly 40 teargas shells when a similar situation arose in Badi village where farmers had stopped the GPCL team from entering the site.
 
 
