A look at the exhibition of   by Alappuzha-based artist   titled   would mirror the mentality of current society. The artist at the art gallery of   at Vazhuthacaud offers a panoramic view of the fragmented attitude of the people towards various prevailing situations. 

 The gallery has been turned into a house of newspapers, as the walls, floor and the roof is adorned by dailies. “Newspapers are a medium where we come across the good and bad around us. Every day we get to read disheartening news, from the crimes against women and children to rise in fuel prices. Though these are disturbing, how many of us sincerely protest against these social ills?” asks Blodsow.
 
 The art show Absence of Presence include paintings on canvases and photographs that throw light on the loss of humanity and the plight of people to find their livelihood. Blodsow flaunts his photography skills by using bold phrases on images to communicate his observations. His works are a call to shake off the apathetic attitude and react. 
 
 Also displayed are a few photographs that are framed and caged. Abhirami TS, a college student who dropped in to visit the show, says, “The caged frames are haunting in a way. We are caged inside these strong photographs such as Hope… Alienation. It is a strong message to be empathetic towards others and a call to end the ignorance towards chaos that’s happening. The installations ask why we neglect others’ sorrows and losses.” 
 
 For the 40-year-old artist, who portrays subjects such as desires, conflicts and illusions on canvas, the works are an outcome of his observations from 2010. Fatherhood, his native land, the people he came across in his travels are all part of the art show, which will conclude on June 2.
 
 “We act numb towards a crisis unless it happens to us or our dear ones. Our society is fragmented in the name of caste, religion and by politics. The humanity and benevolence for our fellow beings are getting eliminated day by day,” concludes Blodsow.
 
 Few glimpses from the on-going exhibition:
 
 Photo Courtesy: Satheeshan Karicheri
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
