It’s just been a month since a 34-year-old Nashida from Erattupetta, who was eight months pregnant, lost her life when she failed to balance herself and fell out of a moving bus. 

 Nobody had offered her a seat, despite being visibly and heavily pregnant. Just a few days ago, a middle-aged man was thrown out of a bus in Kannur for requesting a seat for a pregnant woman. Critically injured, he is battling for life in the medical college.
 According to Motor Vehicles Act, at least one seat should be reserved for   in every Kerala State Transport and private buses. Laws apart, do we, the so-called fully literate Keralites, show any concern or sympathy for pregnant women in our public transport system, which includes buses and trains to taxis and auto rickshaws? A handful of women, who are presently in the family way, share with Kochi Times their experiences:
 
 
 
 Arathy Sobha Rajeev, who works in a bank in Kochi, is six months pregnant and a regular traveller in the city buses. Unlike the rest of the junta, she does not jump into any bus that might be plying in the route she wants to travel in. “The common reaction of passengers when a pregnant woman gets into a bus is irritation, with the question of ‘couldn’t she use some other modes to travel’ looming large on their faces. So I wait for a bus that might be less crowded and comfortable for me. It’s not wise to expect someone to offer you a seat in Kerala, at least in the present scenario.” Shelma Joseph, who works in an IT firm and is into the eighth month of her pregnancy, stopped using public transport around month six for similar reasons. “Nobody shows you any sympathy and might not even look in your direction. So I mostly depend on taxi services.”
 
 Preethi Sivan, who works in a school in Thiruvananthapuram, narrates her experience: “I try my best not to board crowded buses. But sometimes, in the mornings, it can be tough to find a bus that goes in a school route and is not crowded. A few weeks ago, on a day on which I got a little late and could not hire any other mode of transport, I had no other choice but to board a bus. I was visibly into my seventh month of pregnancy and two elderly women shouted at me for standing in the bus, even calling me ‘ahankaari’ for continuing to go to work during my pregnancy! Nobody uttered a word in my defence and it ruined my day.”
 
 Is there any difference in attitude between male and female passengers? Preethi says, “Personally, I have experienced no difference. At the same time, many pregnant women are not comfortable about accepting a seat if at all a man offers it. This is because we will have to occupy a good amount of space on the seat and might not be comfortable rubbing against a man in the limited confines of a seat. Also, there is no guarantee that some disgusting fellows will not try a trick or two to touch you.”
 
 
 
 As for passengers, it is each one for themselves in a public transport vehicle. But what about the staff inside? No hope on that front either, say the ladies. Shelma says, “The moment you step into the bus, they give the double bell and it will take off. It can be really difficult to balance your body and it’s extremely dangerous.” She adds, “The unwarranted speed at which they swerve and turn is another bummer. 
 
 Holding a laptop bag, it’s not easy to ensure that your stomach does not hit against a pole or a seat but hey, who cares? Not the bus drivers or conductors, anyway.”
 Arathy says that they don’t stop at the proper stops either. “All of a sudden, they would ask you to get down when the traffic halts or at a point they deem suitable, without any consideration for your physical condition.” Arathy is also miffed that there aren’t enough clean toilets that pregnant women can use. “Your bladder can test your patience during pregnancy and you can easily feel nauseous, but there are hardly any well-maintained toilets you can go to while using public transportation, which makes it all the more difficult.”
 
 Many buses have seats reserved for pregnant women, which would often be occupied by other women or even men. Soja M, an entrepreneur, says, “Even if you stand beside those seats as an evidently pregnant woman, people ignore you. Conductors often don’t bother to interfere either. Once, when I called out to a ticket collector for help, he quickly came by, mumbled an instruction for the seat to be given to me and vanished into the crowd behind in no time. The women on the seat pretended not to hear, and so did those seated around.” All of these women also say that travelling by taxis and auto rickshaws are also not safe enough, as most drivers don’t listen to your pleas to go at a reasonable pace or slow down at speed breakers.
 
 How can we improve the situation? Soja suggests, “Considering the repeated instances, a helpline number to which pregnant women can make a quick call to report an issue, prominently displayed in these modes of transport with service ensured by authorities, should be helpful.” What about a shift in attitude to a more compassionate one? The women laugh. “Well, we don’t see that coming, at least in the near future, unless the authorities implement the reservation rules strictly,” they say. 
 
