In the previous episode of  , all the contestants re-lived their childhood days in the house.

 The 18th day in the Bigg Boss Marathi house started with the song, ‘Dolbywalya bolav majhya DJ la’. Some of the contestants woke up to their family photographs.
 
 In the morning, Jui informed everyone in the kitchen that they will be making vada pav for breakfast.   wasn't happy with the idea. But she was informed by   that she was not in the kitchen team so she should not worry about that. Megha, Sai, and   were put in the cleaning team.
 
 Pushkar and Sai discussed the latter's marriage. Pushkar asked her if she had joined some matrimonial site. Sai told him that she wants a good looking guy as her life partner and would not compromise on that.
 
 Bigg Boss then assigned a new task to the housemates. Pushkar read the rules of the new task titled 'Khel Mandala'. The main aim of the task was to take all the contestants back to their childhood days.
 
 The contestants were divided into two teams - the kids, and the toys. The kids’ team had to play with the toy team and their target was to irritate them. On the other hand, toy team’s target was not to get irritated. 
 
 Usha, Resham, Sai, Pushkar, Rutuja, and Sushant were in the kids’ team whereas Megha, Aastad, Jui, Smita,   and Bhushan were in the toys team. Both the teams decided their strategies and got dressed in the outfits sent for them.
 
 Usha and Rutuja started playing with their toys Anil and Aastad respectively. Also, the two tried to irritate the toys. Then Sai and Resham started irritating their toys Jui and Megha.
 
 Usha made Anil a toy train. So, he was asked to crawl in the garden area. But after some time, he got exhausted. So he wasn’t able to stand up. Aastad helped him get up and Resham got sugar for him.
 
 Resham then told Bhushan that she will kiss him if he didn’t give up the game.
 
 Resham and Megha then went to the confession room to understand the rules of the game properly. Bigg Boss told them that the toys had to listen to all the commands given by the kids. Also, there was no break for the kids. Resham and Sai told everyone about the rules.
 
 Sai and Megha fought for the first time in the Bigg Boss Marathi house because of the rules of the task. 
 
 Aastad was the first to quit the task. When Rutuja irritated him, he left the game by pressing the buzzer. Later Bhushan also gave up the task. Megha fainted during the task.
 
 
