NEW DELHI: Dressed in a red frock, little Pari scrambles over the stone-strewn rail tracks with the help of elder brother Sandeep, a Class VI student. It is her first day in  , and she is struggling to make it   the  . Alongside, children from the   in   rush to reach the primary and senior schools run by Delhi government and New Delhi Municipal Council in   and  .

 An isolated island behind the fine embassies on the tree-lined avenues of Chankyapuri, Sanjay Camp is hidden from view — except at two times during the day. Around 7 in the morning, ignoring the dangers they face from approaching trains, members of the 2,200 slum families start emerging to negotiate the slippery steps, hewn in the rocky incline, to reach the railway lines. There are students in smart uniforms crossing in groups and helping toddlers hop past the rails. Parents keep a nervous watch over the older children walking bowed under heavy school bags or carry smaller children on their shoulders, their senses alert to the sound of a train. The same scene plays out in the afternoon when the children return from school.
 
 Taking a safer road to reach the schools and the hospitals entails a walk of over half an hour. Buses do not ply regularly on the road, and auto-rickshaws are unaffordable for the parents, most of whom work for daily wages.
 
 In one of the huts on the edge of this hilly perch, 7-year-old Priyanshu, a Class II student, and his sister, Ragini, who studies in Class 4, prepare for school. Their father, Deepak Kumar Rai, tells TOI that like all the others, they will check the railway signal and if they see it is red, they begin the risk-filled crossing. However, judging the speed of a train can be troublesome, and many have had narrow escapes.
 
 Every now and then, someone shouts “train aa rahi hai”. Then everyone prods the others to move faster. As a child falters and is helped to his feet by another kid, the train’s lights appear in the distance. Many students stand back though some stop close to the iron rails to feel the wind on their face as the train rushes by. Parents wryly report that when a train stops on the tracks, desperate students try to slip under the train to reach the other side.
 
 Living by the tracks means a history of tragic events. Monica, a first year student, remembers how she lost her uncle three months ago in a train accident. Geeta, in her 40s, tell of how on April 7, 2016, her husband was killed by a train when he was going to fetch the youngest of their five children, a Class VI student in one of the government schools there. “While my husband managed to push my son out of harm’s way, he was hit and did not survive,” Geeta tells TOI.
 
 The locals dream of a foot overbridge that can assure safety of the children, but at present, the sight and sound of an approaching train do not deter the sprightly kids, perhaps because there is no alternative. In fact, when a train is passing, those left standing on either side of the tracks look worried because it means reaching school late and getting an earful from the teacher.
 
 Some welfare organisations have tried to bring the community’s woes to the notice of New Delhi Municipal Council. Rakesh Senger of Kailash Satyarthi Children Foundation reported having apprised the civic body of the people’s concerns. “We recently started a community development project for children at Sanjay Camp and realised what a dangerous life they lead,” says Senger. “A foot overbridge is urgently required or a school bus should be provided to reach the children to their schools.” He discloses that the foundation will also write to the railway minister on the children’s behalf.
 
 
