Vadodara: A new controversy hit M S University’s Institute of Leadership and Governance (ILG) on Wednesday with two students alleging that they were “rusticated” by the institute for meeting “azadi” speech fame JNU student leader Kanhaiya Kumar. 

 The student Romel Sutariya alleged that he and another female student Manisha Solanki have been rusticated by the institute from the one-year diploma course in political leadership and governance as they were part of the study tour which had met Kanhaiya Kumar in Delhi last month.
 
 Student leaders linked with the Vidyarthi Vikas Sangh (VVS) had submitted a memorandum to MSU officials terming the meeting that ILG’s students had with the JNU leader as an “anti-national activity.” 
 
 Sutariya, who hails from Ahmedabad, said that it was due to this controversy that the institute rusticated him along with Solanki. “Although, we are being told that we have not paid fees before deadline, when Solanki reached the institute to submit her fees on Tuesday, the institute refused to collect her fees,” said Sutariya, alleging a witch-hunt by the institute’s office-bearers.
 
 “In reality, they were trying to identify a scape-goat after the row over meeting Kanhaiya Kumar surfaced,” Sutariya said. 
 
 Sutariya also claimed that while ILG’s advisor Jigar Inamdar had publicly claimed that the meeting with the JNU leader was accidental, in reality, it was a pre-planned meeting. “It was after the row surfaced that it was termed as an accidental meeting,” he alleged. 
 
 ILG’s director Dr Reena Bhatia, however, said that the decision taken by the institute cannot be termed as rustication. 
 
 “We had given constant reminders informing the students that those who have not met the condition of payment of fees will face action. We had given March 5 as the final deadline for payment of fees as the exams are also in the offing,” she said. 
 
 The institute’s office-bearers have, however, failed to explain that if both Sutariya and Solanki had not paid their fees till date, what were the reasons that they were included in the study tour.
 
 A group close to Inamdar claimed that while in Sutariya’s case he did not pay fees on time, Solanki could not produce the required documents. Ironically, no admissions are granted in the entire university system if a student or a candidate does not produce enough documents to support his or her case. 
 
 
