KOLKATA: A Class XII student was allegedly abducted and murdered by three of his friends who had demanded Rs 15 lakh from his family as ransom at Jagaddal in North 24 Parganas. The three, who were arrested on Saturday evening, reportedly confessed that they pushed Abhishek   (17) off Jubilee Bridge at Bandel into the Hooghly on January 20.

 
 The police are, however, faced by a hurdle: based on the statements of the accused, they fished out a body from the Hooghly at Uttarpara on January 24. But Chowbey’s family claimed to have identified another body-—found in a decomposed state—at the Barrackpore police morgue that was recovered from Khardah’s Sukhchar. The police are trying to ascertain whether the arrested—Md Jahid, Md Ukil and Md Sarfaraj —are trying to mislead them. The three were on Sunday remanded in police custody for five days.
 
 A resident of Jagaddal’s Shundiapara, Chowbey, a student at Kakinara Sitaram Pathshala, lived with his widowed mother. On January 20, he left home along with some friends for his tuition class at Bhatpara. When he did not return till late in the evening, his mother lodged an abduction complaint at the Jagaddal police station and named his friends as suspects. Meanwhile, the boy’s brother-inlaw,  , who ran a gymnasium in Delhi, claimed he had received a ransom call from Chowbey’s phone, the police claimed. “At 8.45pm on January 20, I received the call. The caller told me they had kidnapped my brother-in-law, Prince (Abhishek’s nickname) and demanded Rs 15 lakh for his release,”   said. “Despite our repeated pleas, they didn’t let us talk to Prince.” Shaw immediately contacted the Jagaddal police station from Delhi.
 
  
  
 A couple of days later, Shaw reportedly received a text message, demanding Rs 10 lakh for Chowbey’s release. On police instructions, the family agreed to pay the ransom and told the callers to meet them at a location near the Titagarh railway station. The police laid a trap but the supposed abductors did not arrive to collect the money, cops said. “After that, nobody called us and Prince’s phone also remained switched off,” Shaw said.
 
 Even as the police carried out their investigation, the police tracked down Jahid, Ukil and Sarfaraj, who later confessed that they had abduction and murdered Chowbey. The three told the police that on January 20, they took Chowbey to Hooghly’s Bandel, forced him to consume alcohol and later pushed him to his death off the Jubilee bridge. Four days later, a team from the Hooghly’s Uttarpara police station fished out a decomposed body from the Hooghly that the accused identified as that of Chowbey.
 
 “The accused identified the body, in a red shirt and blue jeans, as Chowbey’s but his family couldn’t. The three confessed to the crime in front of Chowbey’s family,” said Rajesh Singh, police commissioner of Barrackpore commissionerate. “We have recovered the victim’s cellphone from the accused.” He pointed out that Chowbey’s family later identified another body at the Barrackpore police morgue that was found on January 30.
 
