Bengaluru: It had always beenGhatam Giridhar Udupa’s dream to get jazz legend John McLaughlin to the city and, if not perform, attend the Udupa Music Festival. 

 “I think the idea to get John to Bengaluru struck me six or seven years ago when I watched him perform at a concert. Then last year, while at Berlin, I attended another concert of his and decided to invite him for the festival. I thought it would great even if he attended the festival and so approached his manager,” recalls Udupa. It would be six or seven months before he got any response from McLaughlin’s team. “I got a mail saying that he was ready to perform,” a visibly thrilled Udupa says. 
 
 This evening McLaughlin will perform a full concert. The newly minted Grammy award winner ( Best Improvised Jazz Solo) will perform as a ‘special guest’ along with musicians like Shankar Mahadevan, Selva Ganesh, U Rajesh, Gino Banks and Sheldon D’Silva. “The last time he performed in Bengaluru was two years ago,” Udupa says before revealing that while the 75-year-old may have a huge fan following everywhere, McLaughlin himself is a fan of mridangam exponent Guru Karaikudi R Mani. He’ll stay back in Bengaluru for one more day to watch Mani perform at the three-day festival. 
 
 As the festival curator, Udupa says, a lot of thought has gone into putting the ensemble of musicians. “My focus was not to just bring together artistes just because they’re popular, it was about putting unique ensembles together. On Sunday, for instance, father-son duo Pandit Shivkumar Sharma and Rahul Sharma will perform together. They are performing together on stage after 10 years,” Udupa says, adding that the bi-annual festival is his way of giving back to ‘my city, Bengaluru’. 
 
 The Udupa Music Festival will be held from February 16 to 18 at Chowdiah Memorial Hall from7pm. 
 
 NOTE THESE DATES
 
 Friday(Feb 16): Vidwan Shankar Mahadevan (vocal), John McLaughlin (guitar), Vidwan Selva Ganesh (khanjira), Vidwan U Rajesh (mandolin), Gino Banks (drums), Sheldon D’ silva (bass guitar)
 
 Saturday (Feb 17): Vidwan Guru Karaikudi Mani (mridangam), Vidwan Mysore Nagaraj (violin), Vidwan Abhishek Raghuram (vocal), Pandit Yogesh Samsi (table), Vidwan Guruprasanna (khanjira)
 
 Sunday (Feb 18): Pandit Shivkumar Sharma and Rahul Sharma (santoor), Pandit Vijay Ghate (tabla), Pandit Bhawani Shankar (pakhawaj)
 
 
