Ludhiana: City residents can hope for smoother travel in the New Year with MP Ravneet Bittu and MLAs Bharat Bhushan Ashu and Sanjay Talwar planning to meet Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari in the coming week. They will reuqest Gadkari to expedite pending work on bridges passing through main chowks of the city on the Panipat-Amritsar road. They will also raise the demand for new projects for the industrial town. The meeting is aimed at finding ways to decongest traffic in the industrial town.

 Elevated flyovers 
 
 First in the list of projects to be taken up is the Ludhiana-Kharar Chandigarh Road project, under which the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) plans to construct a wall to wall bridge from Samrala Chowk to the MC limits. However, this bridge will divide the road in two parts and add to traffic woes. Deputy commissioner Pardeep Agrawal has written to the NHAI about the project. MLAs will raise the issue with Gadkari and demand construction of an elevated flyover from MC limits to Samrala Chowk. Another flyover has also been demanded near Kohara, where a four-lane road has been proposed.
 
 Northern Bypass
 
 A northern bypass starting from Ladhowal to Neelon will be demanded for the industrial hub. The PWD, in its rough draft, proposes this as a four-lane road constructed over 356 acres of land for Rs 411 crore. It is expected to ease traffic from Jammu and Kashmir, Amritsar and Jalandhar headed to Chandigarh and Delhi. It will complete the circuit of the outer ring road, as the Southern bypass project from Neelon to Ferozepur Road and western bypass project from NH-95 connecting NH 44 (Ferozepur road to Amritsar Road) have already started.
 
 Road project 
 
 A road project been demanded from Manpur headworks (Doraha) to Jagraon-Raikot road in the district. A survey has been done for the project, which was proposed in 2010. Punjab Infrastructure Development Board (PIDB) got a detailed project report prepared through a private agency for the purpose. The 51.13km long road is estimated to be constructed at a cost of Rs 247 crore. Sine land is available along the canal, there is no need to acquire more. 
 
 Congress MLA Bharat Bhushan Ashu said they have submitted their demands with the Union minister, who is expected to meet them next week. 
 
 City-based NGOs and residents also wrote to the Union minister on November 2, demanding three bridges on Sherpur Chowk, Cancer Hospital Chowk and Basti Jodhewal Chowk. The MLAs will take up the issue of these incomplete bridges as well.
 
 ‘Elevated road project a compulsion’
 
 City MLAs said the much talked about 13-kms long elevated road project starting from Samrala Chowk to Ferozepur Road MC limits is being executed out of compulsion. They said the Centre is financing the project and the money will be withdrawn if the state government refuses it. However, residents strongly oppose the project. 
 
 Centre committed to serve people, Sampla
 
 Punjab BJP president Vijay Sampla said the Centre is committed to serve people regardless of the ruling party in the state. He said their sole agenda is development and public welfare and the Union minister would do whatever needed to be done. 
 
 
