MUMBAI: Ram Naik (83), a Mumbaikar, is probably the first governor of a BJP-ruled state to come down heavily on the administration over the deteriorating law-and-order situation. Uttar Pradesh governor Naik described the Kasganj communal riots as a blot on the state and asked the government to initiate corrective steps. 

 Governors in other states are silent on serious incidents. Ever since Naik became an MLA nearly four decades ago, he has taken a firm stand on policy issues irrespective of the BJP’s official line. Naik was the first legislator in Maharashtra to submit his annual performance to his constituents. As Lok Sabha MP, Naik published an annual report on the issues raised by him . Naik successfully introduced the MP local area development fund. As a minister of state for railways, Naik set up the Mumbai Rail Vikas Corporation. After he took over as UP governor, he presented his annual report. In over three years, Naik met with a record 22,000 people. “Naik has set a new benchmark for governors,” says a former chief minister. 
 
 
 
 
 The death of an 84-year-old farmer, Dharma Patil, has tarnished the image of chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. Fadnavis has taken steps to tackle agrarian crisis and halt farmer suicides. A task force headed by farmers’ leader Kishore Tiwari was set up and Fadnavis also drafted a loan waiver scheme. However from Patil’s death, it appears that bureaucrats did not take CM’s directive seriously. Patil approached MLA Jaykumar Rawal, who is now tourism minister to demand better compensation for his land acquired for a power plant. Patil said his neighbour received Rs 1.5 crore, while he got Rs 4 lakh. Patil also wrote to Fadnavis, revenue minister Chandrakant Patil and Dhule collector and said he would end his life. When the state failed to take cognizance, Patil consumed poison in Mantralaya and died in J J Hospital. “Fadnavis must fix the responsibility for the death.” said leader of the opposition Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil. 
 
 
 
 
 Eyebrows are being raised over the Fadnavis government’s decision to appoint 30 public relations officers for ministers for “projecting the government’s image and to ensure that clarifications to news reports in print and electronic media get wide publicity”. A senior bureaucrat expressed surprise over the creation of new posts, in view of the fact that all ministers are assisted by the department liaison officers (DLOs) with the Directorate General of Information and Public Relations (DGIPR). 
 
 Ever since DGIPR was set up, it has a state-wide network, with district information officers, regional deputy directors and directors, besides the DLOs in Mantralaya. The DLOs’ role is to interact with the media and the staffers are a link between the ministers and the media. A bureaucrat said that at a juncture when the government has drafted a scheme to prune expenditure, and reduce manpower by 30% , appointing people on contract is a contrary decision. “Better sense will prevail and the CM will revoke his decision,” said the bureaucrat.
 
