CHENNAI: A part of the 300-acre project of   and   restoration by the   (CRRT) remains incomplete in   slum area due to stiff resistance from the residents.

 With residents of the slum dumping   along a part of the creek, officials claim that the restoration efforts done over the remaining 300 acres would be rendered useless as the garbage accumulated, and encroachments on the estuarine portion have increased over the period of time.
 
 The reclaimed portion of the estuary that was finished by October 2016, still hangs in balance as slum residents fear that as part of rehabilitation efforts, they will have to relocate to Slum Board tenements in other parts of the city. The fear is seen among residents there, most of who depend on fishing despite the catch being few these days.
 
 “People have been non-cooperative. They say they will take a survey for distribution of dustbins but we are not sure. Our livelihoods depend on the sea, we can’t move elsewhere,” said Bharathi, a resident.
 
 On the shoreline of Srinivasapuram that lies towards the estuary, a woman comes and dumps all her waste, like several others in the area. “What can we do, there are not sufficient dustbins here. There are 3,000 families and barely six dustbins,” she quipped. “They should fence the area if they want the water to not be polluted.”
 
 Ahead of beginning the project, the CRRT had removed floating debris from the Adyar River estuary to ensure increased tidal influx. Fencing was done later, except in this area. The mounds of garbage here, residents themselves said, has grown over the time.
 
  “We finished the project in 2016 but couldn’t enter the space as they wouldn’t allow us to. As part of awareness on restoration, word was spread on the need of using dustbins for dumping garbage but it was not followed by the residents. Over the years, the encroachments have only grown in size, and the sensitive area we have developed as part of the conservation of creek and estuary will serve no purpose,” an official said. 
 
 Houses too have expanded to the area beyond those developed by the TNSCB. While the CRRT officials said they have no access to the area, the   officials say they have not been treated any better.
 
 
