NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday upheld sale of Park   Goa to   Ltd, which was sold in an auction by Industrial Financial Corp of India (IFCI) after the owner-company failed to repay the loan amount of Rs 150 crore.

 A bench of Justices S A Bobde and L Nageswara Rao said there was nothing illegal in the selling of the   to raise the money as the debtor company, Blue Coast Hotels, failed to discharge its liabilities and the creditor was entitled to realise the secured assets which were mortgaged. 
 
 The court passed the order on an appeal filed by auction purchase, ITC Ltd, challenging the order of the Bombay High Court which had set aside the sale of the five-star luxury hotel. 
 
 IFCI had entered into a corporate loan agreement with Blue Coast Hotels for a sum of Rs 150 crore in February 2010. The agreement included creation of a special mortgage to secure the corporate loan. The mortgaged property comprised the entire hotel property including the agricultural land. The agreement said: “The borrower shall create mortgage on exclusive basis on the ‘Park Hyatt Goa Resort and Spa” hotel property measuring 1, 82, 225 sq m with a built up area of 25182 sq m... .”
 
 The company defaulted in repayment of the loan and it became a Non- Performing Asset in 2013.
 
 Setting aside the HC order, the apex court said, “We have anxiously considered the entire matter and find that the undisputed facts of the case are that a loan was taken by the debtor which was not paid, the debtor did not respond to a notice of demand and made a representation which was not replied to in writing by the creditor. The creditor, however, considered the proposals for repayment of the loan as contained in the representation in the course of negotiations which continued for a considerable amount of time. Several opportunities were in fact availed of by the debtor for the repayment of the loan after the proceedings were initiated by the secured creditor. The debtor failed to discharge its liabilities and eventually undertook that if the debtor fails to discharge the debt, the creditor would be entitled to realise the secured assets.” 
 
 The Bombay High Court had quashed the sale of Hyatt to ITC by lender IFCI and directed IFCI to refund the amount it received from ITC. 
 
 The apex court, however, did not agree with reasoning given by the HC and said, “We accordingly, set aside the impugned judgement of the high court and direct the debtor and its agents to handover possession of the mortgaged properties to the auction purchaser within a period of six months from the date of this judgement along with the relevant accounts”.
 
 
