AHMEDABAD: Be prepared to loosen your purse strings,   is all set to get costlier. Private self-financed colleges across the medical and paramedical spectrum have demanded a 10% to 30% hike in fees. But if sources in the retired justice Akshay Mehta fee regulation committee are to be believed, one can expect a 15% escalation in the present basic medical course fee structure. Inflation and seventh pay commission salaries to staff, are some of the reasons cited by private and government self-financed medical colleges for demanding a fee hike.

 In private medical colleges where there are 3,680 seats, senior education department officials are already expecting a fee hike anywhere between Rs 45,000 to Rs 2.55 lakh per annum. PG medical course fees may escalate by Rs 1.5 lakh, where the present fee is Rs 8 lakh per annum, approximately. There are 18,085 medical, dental, paramedical, ayurvedic, nursing and physiotherapy seats offered by private self-financed colleges in  .
 
  CU Shah medical college, for instance, has demanded that its present fees be increased from Rs 3.75 lakh to Rs 6 lakh. The college trustee, Hemant Shah, told TOI, “We have demanded a fee hike owing to the seventh pay commission salary implementation and inflation.”
 
 In December last year, the   had demanded details of fees and audit reports from 270 private medical colleges for scrutiny and even conducted surprise checks. Details like cost of land, college building, classrooms, library, reading rooms, common rooms, auditoriums examination halls, conference rooms, administrative offices, hospital and hostel expenses, as well as interest paid and other finance costs were checked.
 
 Government promoted medical colleges running self-financed courses like NHL-AMC Municipal Medical College, LG college in Ahmedabad and the eight GMERS colleges across Gujarat, which presently charge between Rs 3 lakh to Rs 4.96 lakh annual fee, may see a fee hike between Rs 45,000 to 74,400 per annum. Ironically, in these colleges the government pays the salaries of professors, paramedics, administrative staff and even fund construction of new structures. There are altogether 1,550 medical seats in these colleges.   dean,  , says “Our fees are Rs 4.96 lakh and now we have demanded a 15% to 20 % hike citing establishment costs and salaries.”
 
 There are just 1,500 seats in government medical and dental colleges with Rs 6,000 in medical colleges and Rs 4,000 in dental colleges, respectively. “Most of these government seats are occupied by merit holders, while for difference of a mark, we have to opt for private medical or government self-financed courses,” said a parent, B N Vaidya. 
 
 
