Born with no legs and forced to walk on his hands,  , in his own words, “has never left the ground”. But on Saturday, the 34-year-old will see the world as he has never seen it before – from higher than 50 feet in the air.

 On February 24, Santhanakumar and 99 other people with disabilities from the city will take part in what is being called the “largest disabled-led outdoor show” in the city. The wheelchair bound will soar, the deaf will be in the dance of their lives.
 
 Captioned ‘Aruna and The Raging Sun' and set against the sands of the  , the show, which will take place in the Lady Willingdon Campus, will feature 24-metre-tall puppets that will walk amongst the audience, fireworks and aerial performances, all while telling the story of a disabled superhero helping humanity overcome the challenges of climate change.
 
 And who better to tell this tale, says the show’s co-director Amit Sharma, than the disabled themselves. “We want this show to provide a huge cultural platform for the promotion of disabled artists and disability rights,” says Sharma, 38, who has a mobility impairment. Born in New Delhi, but based in England, Sharma, who works with the  , says this is the first time he is directing a show in India, and chose Chennai as his stage because the people behind the NGOs and schools for the disabled here were most “receptive”. The aim of this show is two-fold, says Patrick Collier, Lead Producer, one to showcase a spectacle like the city has never seen before and two, to show how disabled artists or rather heroes overcome barriers in the performance space.
 
 “We have been rehearsing since Monday,” says Sharma, who adds that the show is meant to be a “real celebration of where India is headed”. “When the audience sees the show, I want them to change their attitude towards the disabled and to disabilities. I want to see them as equals,” says Sharma.
 
 Aruna and the Raging Sun is supported by Arts Council England and British Council. "I hope the production will inspire the super-hero in all of us as it celebrates the equal contribution disabled and non-disabled people make to our all our communities," says Alan Gemmell, Director India, British Council. 
 
 The show is free for all, on February 24, at 630 pm. Santhanakumar though does not want the rehearsals to end. “I’ve never felt so free, so happy,” he says.
 
 
