HYDERABAD: With the   only days away (May 12 is the polling date), the main players — BJP, Congress and Janata Dal (Secular) — are running a fierce campaign to woo the electorate. And joining the high-pitched battle are two Hyderabadi stars — AIMIM president   and former Indian cricket captain   — who are canvassing for JD(S) and Congress candidates respectively.

 Owaisi has already addressed two public meetings in Bengaluru, while Azhar is reaching out to the electorate in smaller localities pleading with them to cast their vote in favour of Congress. Hyderabad MP Owaisi, who has been delivering fiery speeches against Congress and BJP, challenged Congress president Rahul Gandhi for an open debate for ‘five minutes’ on whether the Congress has upheld the Constitution. “Get Prime Minister Narendra Modi also along with you for the debate,” he said at a public meeting in Bengaluru. He said he favoured a non-Congress and non-BJP government coming to power in   and that’s why he was supporting JD(S). Owaisi, who has chosen not to field Majlis candidates in Karnataka, instead is seeking votes in support of JD(S) whose leader HD Kumaraswamy has already thanked the former for his support. Owaisi is set to address rallies in Belagavi on Tuesday. He will visit Talikota, Davangere and Hassan on Wednesday. “Majlis chief Owaisi’s tour will galvanise the voters,” Latif Khan Pathan, AIMIM general secretary, said and alleged that some Congress leaders even tried to stop Owaisi from campaigning for the JD(S).
 
 Meanwhile, Azhar, who represented Moradabad LS from 2009-2014 on Congress ticket, is batting it straight without resorting to any rhetoric. His speeches were conversational and sticking to the script. “Don’t give your husbands tea or breakfast until they go to the booth to cast their vote. You also accompany them in the morning,” he was seen telling women during his road shows in Bengaluru.
 
 Congress leaders said Azhar would canvass vigorously in the next 2-3 days in support of Siddaramaiah. Surprisingly, TRS president K Chandrasekhar Rao, who met JD(S) leader and former PM HD Deve Gowda in Bengaluru on the Federal Front some time ago and wanted people to support JD(S) in the polls, has not gone to Karnataka to campaigntill now.
 
 
