COIMBATORE: At a time when an inquiry into several irregularities in   is on, students of a constituent college alleged that at least 300 of them were charged more than Rs 1,000 each as contingency fee in the past one year and the principal was transferred shortly after the issue was escalated. 

 The students of Bharathiar University Arts and Science College,  , said the fee was higher than that was charged in private institutions. 
 
 In fact, university authorities had said only Rs 500 would be collected as contingency fee from the students who secure less than the mandated 75% attendance in a semester to take up the examination. But students of Gudalur college alleged that they were forced to pay as high as Rs 1,600.
 
 “My attendance was below 45% in the fourth and fifth semesters. I was allowed to write the exam after paying the contingency fees,” said a third year student from the college on condition of anonymity. The student alleged that he had paid Rs 800 in the fourth semester and Rs 1,600 in the fifth semester.
 
 Receipts were not issued for the fee collected. Explaining that they had paid the amount in cash and did not receive any receipt for the payments other than examination fees, the students alleged that they were also charged a penalty of Rs 70 per subject for missing out internal and model examinations.
 
 “We had to pay the fine amount and collect our hall tickets,” a student said. “We came to know about the higher fees when a few of us visited the university to pay our contingency fees. We raised the issue to the college principal recently, but did not receive any response,’’ the student said.
 
 While the university transferred the principal to another college, it came as a shock to the students as the transfer came shortly after the issue was escalated.
 
 Speaking to TOI, a syndicate member said if the allegations were proved to be true, stringent action would be taken against the authorities concerned. “But as of now the issue is not brought to our knowledge. We have directed all the affiliated and constituent colleges not to handle the fees in cash and to get only challans from the students.
 
 When contacted, university registrar (incharge) B   said the transfer was only a normal procedure and has nothing to do with the allegations. However, she said she has sought an explanation from the principal shortly after receiving oral complaints pertaining to handling two bank accounts in the college’s name.
 
 “The principal will submit his explanation in a couple of days. If irregularities are found, action will be taken,” she said, adding that she had not received any complaints from the students.
 
 College principal  , however, played down the allegations and said the complaints were raised to damage his reputation.
 
 When asked about two accounts that were managed in the college’s name, he said one account was to handle the fund related to alumni association and another was to handle fund related to Women Development Cell (WDC).
 
 We haven’t made any withdrawal from both these accounts, he added.
 
 
