GURUGRAM: Police have arrested a 21-year-old man after online retail store   lodged a complaint, saying he had ordered some products and returned dummy products and managed to get refunded for the same. 

 According to police,   was arrested from a local institute, where he used to study, in Delhi’s Raja Garden on Thursday morning.
 
 In its complaint, Shopclues said that it had “come across a number of cases in which a person was using numerous email IDs and different phone numbers to defraud and cheat the company”, adding that the person had also managed to get “false refund” from the company.
 
 Police said that Mathur used several phone numbers and credit/debit cards of his friends to place his orders. He had ordered three iPhones and a   from Shopclues. 
 
 “He would order expensive iphones from the online store and buy their cheap rip-offs from the market and ask for refund from the store, saying the device had a scratch or a defect,” said inspector Anand Yadav, SHO of cyber police station which is probing the case. 
 
 Police added that Mathur would then replace the IMEI number of the new phone and paste it on the dummy phone so that when any delivery boy checked the serial number of the product, he would hand over the money for the same to Mathur.
 
 Police said Mathur had committed the fraud for premium devices, such as   X and 8 and Cannon 80D camera. He would later sell them online or on the black market and make money, they added.
 
 In the first case, an order for an iPhone X was placed by Mathur under the name of Nitesh and the delivery was to be made to Shivaji Enclave. Mathur used another name, Atul, to place his order for the DSLR. In the third case, he ordered an iPhone 8 in the name of Amit Saxena and in another case, he identified himself as Aman. The last three deliveries were made to different addresses in Sonepat, according to the complaint.
 
 An FIR under sections 406 (breach of trust) and 420(cheating) of the IPC at the Cyber-crime police station. Police said that they used “technical surveillance” to arrest the accused. Mathur is originally from Sonepat.
 
 
