You can buy a high-end Merc or bring up a child. That might sound heartless because raising a child is way more challenging, transformational and rewarding than buying a car. But to reap those emotional returns you need a financial plan that provides for expenses from the time your child is conceived until she is on her own. It is always best to have an overall amount in mind and then break it down to annual and monthly savings targets. That is what we have attempted to provide here

 As your child grows, the nature and amount you spend on her changes dramatically. For instance,   costs are highest till the child is 4 years old and   costs shoot up between ages 17 and 21. Based on education, healthcare, food, clothing, entertainment, transportation, housing, and some miscellaneous expenditure, you spend approximately Rs 67.4 lakh (at current prices) on your child, from conception to college. If the inflation rate is 3 per cent, this figure goes up to Rs 1.05 crore. If the inflation shoots up to 6 per cent, you end up spending Rs 1.7 crore. Here is an approximate age-wise break-up of expenditure.
 
 0-4 years: Rs 6.2 lakh 
 5-8 years: Rs 6.9 lakh 
 9-12 years: Rs 8.4 lakh 
 13-16 years: Rs 10.5 lakh 
 17-21 years: Rs 35.4 lakh
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 It will be higher in metros than in tier 2 and 3 towns.
 
 
 
 
 If housing as the second highest expense surprises you, keep in mind that a couple without children could live in a smaller house.
 
 
 
 
 Entertainment costs shoot up once the child enters teens — birthday gifts, gadgets, hobbies, holidays with friends, etc.
 
 
 
 
 It is the next big head of spending followed by food, transportation and healthcare at roughly 5% each.
 
 
 
 
 The precise figure of 67.4 lakh per child is indicative and won't apply exactly to all families. Based on city of residence, standard of living and savings potential, a family-specific savings target can be calculated keeping the following assumptions in mind:
 
 
 
 A family of two can live in a single-bedroom flat but they will need to rent a bigger house when junior arrives. We have assumed that after a child is four, a family would have to rent at least a 2-bedroom house which would add 2,000 to the monthly expense.
 
 
 
 
 In the initial years, the expense is relatively high because of the specialised diet requirements of an infant but it gradually tapers down. Food does not constitute a major expense in the total costs
 
 
 
 
 Children's clothes are expensive, sometimes even costlier than adults'. You need to buy them often as children outgrow them. Our estimates include all clothes, including school uniforms and shoes
 
 
 
 We have included the cost of transportation to school and college as well as the cost of family holidays. Some of these costs go down when the child starts using public transport. Some families may have to buy a second vehicle
 
 
 
 
 Prenatal and maternity expenses are included. Healthcare costs are higher in the initial years when a child gets vaccinations. We have assumed the child will not suffer from a major illness and have a health insurance of 1 lakh.
 
 
 
 
 Everything relating to school and college — tuition fee, books and stationery, private coaching, school trips and functions. Uniforms and transportation belong to other heads. Public school education is assumed.
 
 
 
 
 Entertaining your child takes up more money than feeding or clothing him. Includes spending on toys, story books, comics, internet connection, movies, gadgets, cell phone bills and holidays with friends.
 
 
 
 
 An additional family member means extra living expenses. More electricity consumption, fatter telephone bills, more soap, toothpaste, hair oil, deodorant, etc. This also includes the higher wages for household help.
 
 
 
 
 Education takes up the lion's share of childcare expense because only a small and shrinking percentage of parents are able to find good government schools and colleges for their children. To fund higher education, the cost of which is escalating too, parents can take a loan. Thankfully, the interest paid on an education loan can be claimed as a deduction with no upper limit, though only for eight years. As with all tax incentives, the maximum benefit goes to parents in the highest tax bracket:
 
  
  
 COVER YOURSELF FOR YOUR CHILD’S FUTURE
 
 
 The entire planning for the child can come to nought if something untoward happens to the parent. Therefore, one must have adequate insurance to cover the expenses planned for one’s child. Here’s how much it costs to take a cover for
 Rs 1 crore till the age of 60.
 
 
  
 
 
 
