Ludhiana: The Ludhiana police — in an embarrassing turnaround — has registered a case into an alleged fraud with a Canadian NRI from Ludhiana on Wednesday morning, after it had filed an affidavit in the court recently that an FIR could not be registered into the case, after seeking the legal opinion of the district attorney.

 The court had observed during a hearing on March 20 that the Ludhiana police had filed an affidavit in the case — stating that that no cognizable offence was made out, and therefore no FIR was registered — though the record of the case revealed otherwise, as there were various reports and recommendations conducted by different officers to the effect that the FIR be registered.
 
 A copy of the FIR with The Times of India suggests that a case has been registered under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (fraud), 193 (false evidence), and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC against Rajinder Pal Singh Walia and Sonam Walia in a dispute related to sale of a house in Sarabha Nagar in 2005. In his complaint filed with the police in 2015, Ravjot Singh, brother of the complainant Harpreet Kaur Dhaliwal of Canada, claimed that in 2005, they had given earnest money of Rs 10 lakh to Rajinder Pal Singh Walia and Sonam Walia, for a house, which was priced at Rs 59 lakh.
 
 He added that the respondents did not fulfil the conditions of the agreement — which included getting dues cleared and evacuating tenants — and in addition, played fraud with them by not returning their earnest money. However, after the police not registering an FIR, the complainant moved the Punjab and Haryana high court in 2016.
 
 Even as station house officer (SHO) of Sarabha Nagar Sumit Sood did not respond to repeated calls for the police’s version into this case, police sources however said Ludhiana police took action after being pulled up by high court over its not registering an FIR in the case.
 
 Acting on a petition raising questions over the functioning of Ludhiana police, the Punjab and Haryana high court had asked the director general of police (DGP) to reply as to under what provisions of law so many inquiries were conducted into the matter. Taking strong note of the contradiction in the findings of inquiry reports and recommendations of the district attorney, the court also asked the top cop to explain under what provisions the district attorney’s opinion was made a pre-requisite for registration of an FIR, despite provisions of Section 154 Cr PC that states
 
 A bench of Justice Mahabir Singh Sindhu has also asked the DGP to reply within three weeks, and directed him to appear in person in case of non-compliance. 
 
 WHAT IS THE CASE?
 
 The matters pertains to money transactions with regard to sale of a house in Sarabha Nagar. In his complaint Ravjot Singh, brother of the complainant Harpreet Kaur Dhaliwal of Canada, claimed that in 2005 they had given earnest money of Rs 10 lakh to Rajinder Pal Singh Walia and Sonam Walia, for a house, priced at Rs 59 lakh. He, however, added that the respondents did not fulfil the conditions of the agreement — which included getting all the dues cleared and evacuating tenants — and played fraud with them by not returning their earnest money. 
 
 Ravjot Singh said later they lodged a complaint with the police in 2015, following which the then ADCP headquarters recommended an FIR, and later, the then DCP also approved the registration of an FIR, in which a clear cognizable offence was made out.
 
 The same report was later sent to the then police commissioner who marked the same to the district attorney (DA) seeking legal opinion into the matter, but the latter did not approve of an FIR. Subsequently, the petitioner moved the high court in 2016, which took note of the matter.
 
 
