GURUGRAM:  , sister of   who was shot dead by former Congress leader Venod Sharma’s son Siddhartha Vashishta alias  , on Monday said her mother was willing to forgive her daughter’s killer. Manu is currently serving a life term in Tihar jail after being convicted for the  .

 She further said her mother, who died months after Jessica’s murder in April 1999, had told her that she would have forgiven Manu Sharma if he had asked her for forgiveness. “My mother was willing to forgive him,” she told mediapersons at her house in Gurugram on Monday.
 
 Sabrina, in a letter to the Tihar jail officials last month, wrote that she would have “no objection to his release, owing to the fact that he has spent 15 years in jail’’, evoking mixed reactions from various quarters.
 
 “People are saying I have let them down. A lot of people had stood by me in this fight, including the media. But now I need a closure, and need to forgive, forget and move on,” she said. “I have lost a lot, after losing Jessica, I lost my parents…but what we gained in 2006, what I was fighting for, was justice.”
 
 Sabrina, who is going to turn 50 soon, insisted only people who had lost someone close, like she lost Jessica, would understand the importance of ‘letting go’.
 
 “When the letter (sent by the jail officer’s regarding compensation and release of Sidhartha Vahishta) came, I mulled over the letter for two days, spoke to my friends who asked me to follow my heart. Then I wrote a handwritten reply saying I didn’t want any money and tore off the letter (written to her by the jail officials). I wanted to put an end to this,” she said.
 
 Sabrina maintained that the decision to forgive Sharma was a personal one, and was not taken under the influence or pressure from anyone. “I don’t want to keep any more anger and hurt within me. Initially, when he was caught, he used to have an arrogant smile on his face as if he knew he would get away with it. But I have heard that he is repentant and remorseful now. Fifteen years is not a small time. He has been in there for a long time. Also, he was very young when he shot my sister,” she said.
 
 
