NEW DELHI: The   has ordered   from  ,   to a   for   relating to the   of a boy in 2007. Though it was a normal delivery, the complainant, had alleged that the abnormality in the left arm of the baby was discovered few days later. They had alleged it was due to “crude and violent pulling of the new born baby” during delivery. 

 Max Healthcare denied all allegations. “We have also noticed several inconsistencies in the order as material facts of the case and the opinion of the medical board of RML have not been considered by the state commission. We reiterate that we have taken utmost care in the delivery of the baby...We will appeal against the ruling in the National Commission,” it said in an email reply to TOI.
 
 The case dates back to June 2007 when one Aarti Garg was admitted to the hospital and she delivered a baby boy a day later. Though it was a normal delivery and the child had no complication, soon abnormality in his left arm was discovered and it was attributed to “shoulder dystocia”. This occurs when after the delivery of the head, the anterior shoulder of the baby cannot pass below the pubic bone of the mother.
 
 The parents had alleged that the baby was subjected to violence through pulling which caused the injury of the roots of left brachial plexuses, which in common parlance meant destruction of the nerve roots. They produced reports of diagnostic centres and other hospitals to substantiate their complaint.
 
 Max Healthcare said they took every care of the delivery and that shoulder dystocia, a rare but known complication during child birth, can happen in childbirth, despite every precaution being taken. The parents had served a legal notice seeking Rs 50 lakh for causing permanent disability and pain. But the hospital had denied liability forcing them to take the matter to the consumer commission.
 
 The hospital had cited a report of Ram Mohaohar Lal hospital of October 2010 to negate the claims, but the commission did not agree since the opinion received also suggested that it would be categorised as abnormal labour complicated by shoulder dystocia.
 
 
