New Delhi:  , the   Group’s private sector financing arm, is looking to commit around $250 million (around Rs 1,500 crore) in   and rope in partners to help clean up non-performing assets in the Indian banking sector.

 This is in addition to the agency’s investment in its Distressed Asset Recovery Program ( ) operating in India, China, Indonesia, The Philippines, Thailand, and Vietnam. The India numbers under this programme were not immediately available.
 
  will join hands with Clearwater Capital Partners for DARP in a special purpose vehicle dedicated to distressed and special situations assets, that will be managed by the private equity firm.
 
 Sources said the fresh commitment of $250 million is expected to be announced in the next few months but IFC was not immediately available for a comment. It has so far invested around $80 million in the space.
 
 Earlier this week, IFC South Asia director Mengistu Alemayehu told TOI that the agency was looking to investing in distressed assets in India through reconstruction companies, either through a fund platform or a holding platform, but had refused to share further details.
 
 “We want to provide some confidence to the system that the new bankruptcy code can actually work. So we are going to take a substantial risk and also get the right type of players who will thrive with us. I think in the next few months you will see some announcements,” he said.
 
 Alemayehu had said Indian banks had evinced interest and indicated that IFC was interested in restructuring some of the distressed companies.
 
 NPAs have emerged as one of the biggest challenges for the government as banks led by the public sector players are grappling with a record pile of bad debt, estimated at around Rs 8 lakh crore, on last count. This has not only dragged down their performance but slowed down lending in the sector. The government and RBI have moved together to order a clean-up of banks’ books and also enacted the new Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code to crack down on errant companies, many of which are up for auction. Rise in NPAs has also turned into an opportunity for global investors such as KKR and Brookfield.
 
 
