MUMBAI: Twice in two months, Sanjeev Modi, a differently-abled commuter from Borivli, caught the same man travelling illegally in the handicapped compartment of a Western Railway train. 

 The first time, the man, who was booked under the   by the Railway Protection Force ( ), counter-alleged that Modi was   and he was prosecuted based on a “vague medical report”. But the second time, Modi took no chances and filed an FIR with the Government Railway Police ( ) under the stringent   and got the man arrested.
 
 “Commuting is already tough for the disabled. What makes it worse is able-bodied passengers getting into the handicapped coaches and bullying the disabled,” said Modi (50), who is employed as a salesman. 
 
 On December 12, 2017, Modi alerted RPF personnel at Borivli station about Kalbadevi resident Shambhu Singh Rathod illegally travelling in the handicapped coach. “Rathod admitted to the offence, but also accused Modi of being drunk and creating a nuisance,” said an RPF official. “Both Rathod and Modi were taken to the RPF outpost. While Rathod was booked under the Indian Railways Act for illegal travel, Modi was sent to Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital at Kandivli for a medical checkup.”
 
 Modi claimed he neither underwent a blood or urine test nor a breathanalysis. “A doctor shone a torch in my face and prepared the report,” he added. The report, a copy is with TOI, stated “the patient appears to be under the influence of alcohol as his pupils are sluggish, gait is unsteady, speech is slurred, breath smells and tremors are present”. Based on this report, RPF booked Modi under the Indian Railways Act for drunkenness. “My disability makes me appear sluggish,” Modi told TOI. The court released him on bail. The matter will be heard on February 13.
 
 “We prosecuted Modi on the basis of the medical report. It is for the court to decide whether the medical examination was properly conducted or not," said senior inspector Pradeep Jaduan of Borivli RPF.
 
 On January 27, Modi again spotted Rathod in the handicapped coach as the train was approaching Grant Road station. He alerted a GRP constable on the platform who escorted them to the station manager’s office. After Modi got an FIR registered at the Churchgate GRP outpost, Rathod was arrested. Modi told the GRP that Rathod would frequently travel in the handicapped coach which prompted him to press charges.
 
 
