KOLKATA: Some partied hard on Monday to usher in 2018 on an exuberant note. But there were some who turned to the power of prayers to welcome the  .

 The beginning of a new year is associated with partying and eating out with family and friends but not for Rangan  . The church officer of St John’s Church woke up early on January 1 and after getting into his festive fineries, he headed to attend the special thanksgiving prayer at Christ Church on Bidhan Sarani with his wife, son and daughter. 
 
 “I feel starting the year with the blessings of the Lord is auspicious. We thank Jesus for all the blessings in the year gone by and for protecting us from all evil and helping us to walk in the path shown by him. We also pray to the Lord to keep blessing us and guiding us on the part of righteousness,” said Dutta after Reverend   finished his sermon. 
 
 While several churches in the city organise a special thanksgiving prayer service on January 1, lakhs from all over the state gather at Dakshineswar temple to worship Ma Bhabatarini on the occasion of Kalpataru Utsav, which is celebrated on this day every year in memory of Sri Ramakrishna Paramahansa. Thousands also offered prayers at   and Cossipore Udyanbati on Monday. 
 
 Fifty two year-old   came all the way from   with his mother, 75, and his wife. “We have been coming here every year for the last two decades. Our new year does not start without visiting Dakshineswar and offering our prayers. The long queue in which we have to wait for almost four to five hours doesn’t deter us,’ said a smiling Prithesh, waiting for his turn in the queue.
 
 The Dargah of Syed Ali Shah in Kidderpore drew thousands throughout Monday. People offered their prayers and asked for the well-being of their dear ones. Twenty-nine-year-old Rehan Ali, a resident of Palm Avenue, was one of them. “I am not fond of partying and visiting leisure spots on the first day of the year. I am a devotee of Syed Ali Shah baba and I find peace and perspective when I come here,” said Ali, who is into exports of leather bags.
 
 
