LUDHIANA: Jagraon city police booked six persons on Saturday evening for attacking the Jain community president and his friend, and running away with his bike, money, and mobile after a tiff during elections for office-bearers of the community. The accused were identified as Churag Jain, Sushil Jain, Sudershan Jain, Deepak Jain, Manish Jain, and Raju Jain — all of   in Jagraon. The injured included Jain community president Ramesh Jain, his friend Rakesh Jain, and nephew Rahul Jain.

 Police officials said trouble started on Friday evening during elections of new office-bearers of the Jain community in Jagraon. They added that after the previous president Ramesh Jain won the elections again, along with 33 other members, a group of Jain community members had a tiff with the new team members. As the two groups had heated arguments after the elections, police reached the spot and managed to cool down tempers, after which the members went to their respective places.
 
 Police officials said that later on Saturday afternoon, Ramesh and Rakesh were going on a bike near a popular eatery on the highway, when the accused persons stopped them, beat them up, and also broke a tooth of Ramesh in the attack, before running away with his bike, mobile handset, and around Rs41,000 in cash. Cops said the accused persons later caught hold of Rahul, who was riding on a bike, and beat him up as well. They added that the injured Ramesh, Rakesh, and Rahul were admitted in the   in Jagraon, after which police were informed. Cops from Bus Stand police post started a probe.
 
 In-charge of Bus Stand police post, assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Sukhbeg Singh, said the accused were booked under sections 379-B (snatching), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapons) and 149 (every member of unlawful assembly, guilty of offence committed in prosecution of a common object) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). He added that they were seeking the opinion of a dental expert about injury to the tooth of Ramesh. Necessary sections will be added in the FIR, if an expert recommends it.
 
 Cops said Sukhbeg said Ramesh and Rakesh will be discharged on Sunday evening, adding that raids were being conducted to arrest the accused persons.
 
