MUMBAI: Slowly and steadily, two British era milestones in   are being restored to their former glory. 

 A fortnight ago, the BMC's 'D ward' along with conservation architect Tapan Mittal-Deshpande started the process of restoring the milestones which had got buried four ft under the ground. While one with Roman numerals is near  , another is near Cumbala Hill Hospital.
 
 Interestingly, the milestone at Cumbala Hill hospital has the number '3' inscribed on it instead of Roman numericals which is generally the case with most milestones in the city.
 
 The team working on its restoration extricated it first and is now working on placing it in such a way that it is visible.
 
 Assistant commissioner of 'D' ward  , one of the key drivers of the project said, "We are putting in all efforts to ensure the milestone is skillfully removed, while also taking every care to ensure it does not get damaged. Once the stone is removed, it will be carefully preserved till the area around it is beautified. The stone will then be placed back."
 
 Mote, during his tenure at F-South ward, had restored a milestone in Parel area which his team had stumbled upon during demolition work opposite M D College.
 
 The milestones, which are spread out across the north of the city from  , were originally about three to four feet in height, but have now shrunk-their bottom-halves have been submerged in our ever-thickening pavements.
 
 Explaining the restoration work that will be carried out, conservation architect Mittal-Deshpande said, "These two milestones which are being restored were almost four ft below the ground with hardly one foot visible. The milestones were helpful for Victorian horse carriageways which passed through the area. Currently, some road work is going on and we are waiting for it to be completed after which we plan to reinstate them," she added. 
 
 The milestones are being painstakingly cleaned with lime water
 
 As per heritage department officials, there are 13 milestones in the heritage list. Once restored, an official inauguration of the milestones has been planned.
 
 
