MYSURU: BY  , the likely BJP candidate from Varuna segment, appears to have sloughed off the outsider tag thrust on him by his rival-to-be Dr Yathindra’s father chief minister  .

 
 “I don’t feel like I’m an outsider. Going by the response from the voters, I actually am confused whether I’m in Shikaripur or in Varuna,” the BJP leader said. “This is not an
 
 election issue. For me, the lack of development of the segment which has affected people is the real issue.”
 
 Though this is his electoral debut, Vijayendra is not shy of taking on the CM. He is doing everything to be seen as Siddaramaiah’s opponent, designed both to grab attention and to send a message to the   community which forms 28% of the total 2.13 lakh electorate in Varuna segment.
 
 Mysuru has had some tall Lingayat leaders like M Rajashekarmurthy and MS Gurupadaswamy. After former ministers HS   and M Mahadevu’s death, there is a vacuum. If Vijayendra can grow politically, it could help him become a Lingayat leader from this region, one of his poll managers explains.
 
 Like Yathindra, Vijayendra is also banking on his father to get his message across but unlike the Congress candidate, he is seeking to go all out on his own, given his experience of having worked for Yeddyurappa in Shikaripur.
 
 A disciplinarian, the 42-year-old LLB graduate starts his campaigning at the scheduled time and hits the hinterland to meet people and seek their support. He is seeking to forge an alliance between Lingayats and Dalits which Yeddyurappa sought to achieve during the bypoll from Nanjangud in April 2017.
 
 At Hadinaaru Mole, where Upparas and Nayakas are in majority, when he arrives, BJP activists burst crackers. He gets down from his high-end SUV to greet villagers. He walks up to curious women huddled in a corner and seeks their support with folded hands.
 
 At Moodhalli where Lingayats are in majority, cries of “Vijayendra anna ge jai” rent the air. He leaves his footwear outside as he visits the house of N Ravi, a Lingayat leader and GP member of   gram panchayat. After a chat over a glass of juice, he leaves. The next stop is the house of Nagabushan, a Lingayat leader who has traditionally supported Congress.
 
 At BJP supporter MS Mahesh’s house, he welcomes a bunch of youths to the party and offers them the party’s shalya. He is next led to Dalit colony.
 
 Shivaswami, 54, from Moodhalli, who is a BJP activist for 25 years, says the saffron party didn’t perform well in 2013 though it had a support base. He attributes the loss to the lack of a formidable candidate.
 
 Shivaswami feels the party is strong now and one of the reasons is that Siddaramaiah is not the candidate. He quickly adds that BJP has to ensure the support of Dalits too.
 
