DEHRADUN: In Uttarakhand, the election narrative has revolved around the at times victorious, but often beleaguered chief minister.

 Harish Rawat, 69, has faced persistent rebellion from senior party colleagues since last year amid several controversies. Yet, he remains, some say inexplicably, the Congress's mainstay and BJP's key strategic `target'. So much so, that this election is turning out to be a Rawat-versus-the-rest one.
 
 The ground for the poll battle was laid last March when nine Congress MLAs revolted against Rawat, leading to a turmoil that began with the imposition of central rule and ended two months later when the CM managed to win a Supreme Court-ordered trust vote and reinstate his government.
 
 But the rebellion's ghosts still haunt him. Almost all the   and ones who followed later like senior minister Yashpal Arya were given tickets by BJP in a clear message that the party was taking on the CM directly. “BJP seems to have given tickets to the turncoats to garner sympathy by highlighting Rawat's authoritarianism that led them to leaving the party,“ says Annapurna Nautiyal, professor of political science at the Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Garhwal University in Srinagar, Pauri Garhwal.
 
 Simultaneously, through its Parivartan Yatras launched a few months before elections were announced, BJP tried to build momentum against the CM, raking up charges of corruption and nepotism in his administration, including his role in the CD sting of him alleg edly negotiating to buy back dissident MLAs.
 
 Though Rawat's faced unprecedented dissent -over two dozen netas quit in the last 10 months claiming dissatisfaction -the wily Thakur has managed to not only hold on to but also consolidate his position in the party. The CM's stamp was evident in the Congress candidate list.
 
 BJP functionaries dissatisfied at being bypassed in seats such as Roorkee and Bajpur, were quietly accommodated, sizeable communities like Gorkhas and Muslims in Mussoorie and Haridwar were given representation, and care was taken to placate allies like the Progressive Democratic Front (a bone of contention between PCC chief Kishore Upadhyay and Rawat, who eventually managed to have his way).
 
 The CM announced that he'd contest from two seats -Haridwar (rural), part of the largest poll district in the state and Kichha in Udham Singh Nagar, where the Congress was weakened after seniors such as Bahuguna and Arya quit. “The way Congress has organised its campaign shows the party is 100% dependent on Rawat. This also means that expectations are high to deliver. With anti-incumbency and BJP's onslaught and the rebels, he has a tough task,“ says analyst Raj Kanwar.
 
 Rawat told TOI earlier this month that he was a “pahari yoddha (mountain warrior) always ready for a good fight“. He seems to have his wish granted as he faces several detractors, within and outside his party.
 
