Mumbai: Global  , The Procter & Gamble Company (P&G), will acquire a nearly 52% stake in drug firm   for Rs 1,300 crore as part of a global deal under which it will take over the international consumer health business of Germany’s Merck KGaA. According to a public announcement, Procter & Gamble Overseas India BV along with P&G will make a mandatory offer to acquire 26% from public shareholders for up to Rs 648 crore, taking the total cost of acquisition in India to Rs 1,948 crore. 

 The offer is made at a price of Rs 1,500, which is at a 16% discount to Merck’s closing price of Rs 1,792 on the   on Thursday. After the global announcement, Merck’s stock jumped nearly 19%.
 
 After the transaction, the Rs 1,119-crore Merck will become the fourth legal entity in India for the Cincinnati-based P&G. The current three companies in India that represent P&G are Procter & Gamble Hygiene And Health Care (PGHH), in which the promoter group holds about 70%, Procter & Gamble Home Products (PGHP), a wholly owned subsidiary, and  , in which it has 75% shareholding. The P&G Group has a combined turnover of over $1.5 billion in India and is present in laundry, feminine hygiene, cold relief products, hair care, shaving products and diapers.
 
 The global all-cash deal of about 3.4 billion euros will add vitamins and food supplements to P&G’s lineup of   (OTC) products. Merck’s consumer health unit includes brands such as  ,  ,   and  . Edelweiss Securities senior VP (institutional equities - research) Abneesh Roy said the move will help P&G in scaling up distribution at chemist shops in India, as it will now have a wider portfolio of   brands.
 
 A P&G India spokesperson said it is too early to comment on future plans. “Healthcare is a fast-growing category for the company and an expanded presence in OTC will help P&G achieve stronger top line growth overall. Merck Consumer Health portfolio includes a broad range of OTC products, many of which are treatment areas not currently addressed in P&G’s portfolio. P&G believes the combined brands, countries and capabilities are highly complementary and that together we can continue to lead industry growth in the places and segments where we compete,” the spokesperson added.According to details submitted to the exchange, P&G will buy 8,599,224 equity shares of Rs 10 each, which constitutes 51.8% of its equity capital, from  ,   and  . The open offer is to acquire 4,315,840 equity shares, representing 26% of the equity capital.
 
 Merck CEO and executive board chairman Stefan Oschmann said, “The divestment of the Consumer Health business is an important step in Merck’s strategic focus on innovation-driven businesses within healthcare, life science and performance materials. It is a clear demonstration of our continued commitment to actively shape our portfolio as a leading science and technology company.”
 
 As part of the transaction, approximately 3,300 employees globally, mainly from consumer health, will transition to P&G.
 
 This acquisition enables P&G to expand its successful consumer healthcare business by adding a fast-growing portfolio of differentiated, physician-supported brands across a broad geographic footprint. It is expected to improve P&G’s OTC geographic scale, brand portfolio and category footprint in the vast majority of the world’s top 15 OTC markets. 
 
 P&G president, CEO and board chairman David Taylor said, “We like the steady, broad-based growth of the OTC healthcare market and are pleased to add the Consumer Health portfolio and people of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany, to the P&G family.”
 
 The transaction is expected to close by the end of the fourth quarter 2018. Merck intends to use the net proceeds from the divestiture primarily to accelerate deleveraging, says a company statement. At the same time, it will allow Merck to increase flexibility to strengthen all three business sectors — healthcare, life science and performance materials.
 
 The transaction will be executed through the sale of Merck’s shares in a number of legal entities as well as various asset sales and comprises the consumer health business across 44 countries, including over 900 products and two consumer health-managed production sites in Spittal (Austria) and Goa (India), it adds. As part of the transaction, Merck and P&G have agreed a number of manufacturing, supply and service agreements.
 
 The consumer health market has witnessed action recently with Novartis divesting part of its holdings for $13 billion to GlaxoSmithKline, amounting to 3.6 times its revenue. For the consumer health division, Merck group will get about 3.7 times its revenue.
 
 
