Squeals of delight rung in the air as excited kids craned their necks to catch a glimpse of the colourful display of exotic birds from Africa, Australia, China and other countries at the ongoing exhibition in the city, titled ‘World of Pets’. Species including  ,  ,  ,  ,  , apart from a variety of pigeons, rabbits, iguanas, ducks and an emu, put on a great show at the   in Andheri. More than 20 mini aquaria, decorated with real plants, highlighted the message to avoid plastics. Persian cats and Chihuahuas relaxed in spacious air-conditioned tents specially constructed for them. The exhibition, which began on Friday, will close today. 

 
 The centre works at spreading awareness as well as rescuing birds, animals and pets in distress. This is the first time they have organised an exhibition on this scale.  , administrator at the centre, says, “The birds are from various countries and are owned by people we know. We wanted to get them here for those Mumbaikars, who cannot go abroad to see them. Apart from this, we wanted to spread awareness about how to handle pets and address issues related to them.”
 
 
 Spread across a massive green patch, the natural environs were the perfect setting for the exhibition. With the summer vacations on, families and kids took this as a rare opportunity not to be missed. Sarita Singh, a homemaker from Santacruz, who was visiting with her two small kids — Ankush (2) and Nisha (4) says that she always wanted to introduce them to the world of birds, animals and nature from an early age. “I’ve introduced both of them to nature ever since they were babies, as the earlier they learn, the easier it is to mould their thinking. They now love to read about birds and animals, and also watch programmes on TV related to the same. I’m sure it will make a difference in their attitude towards nature and preserving it,” she says. 
 
  
 
 
 A green corner was full of animal lovers, who were eager to get tips, as regular sessions were held with professionals talking about caring for your pet. What made it interesting was that they had the pet on display as they spoke about it. Kids were encouraged to pet them, hold them and even talk to them while asking queries if they had any.
 Ashok Kirtane, who was enjoying the exhibition with his two young boys — Amar (8) and Ankit (6) — says, “My sons love animals and we recently allowed them to get two dogs at home. We brought the dogs only on the condition that the boys would care for them. We got to know that the exhibition has a workshop on how to care for your pets. A professional talking about pet care made all the difference and we also got a lot of our queries resolved.”
 
 
 The activity area had a fun adventure setting, which comprised climbing the commando net and the spider net, walking on the rope, Burma bridge and ending with a flying fox. Enjoying these adventure activities were kids and adults alike. Namita (9) and her cousin Shreya (10) had Namita’s dad Shreyas Jain joining them in the activities. “These days, it is rare to get kids to do outdoor activities, as there are not many options in the city. Since they have some fun adventure activities here, both of them are excited and raring to take part. For me, too, it felt like a stress-buster after a long day’s work in office,” sums up Jain.
 
