Trichy: With an objective to bring down operational costs and make the city energy-efficient, Trichy Corporation in the past three months converted 220 sodium vapour lamps into LED lamps. Having already converted 28,251 other street lights to LED lights in over a year, the civic body plans to include exclusive proposals to turn street lights into LED in the smart city programme.

 According to Trichy Corporation, there are about 36,800 street lights in the city including CFL, sodium vapour, and metal halide lamps. In 2014, the civic body had taken up an energy conservation study for converting all fluorescent tube light systems to LED lights to cut down electricity expenses and make the maintenance of street lights simple. The move came after Trichy Corporation acknowledged practical difficulties in operation and maintenance of street lights such as switching on and off on time. Subsequently, the corporation converted close to 28,000 street lights into LED lights on public private partnership (PPP) mode in 2017 alone. 
 
 The energy conservation project involving parameters as mentioned by the Bureau of India Standards (BIS) such as apt spacing and arrangement of street light poles helped the corporation bring down the annual electricity consumption of street lights by 41.89 per cent in 2017. Continuing the energy conservation project, at least 220 sodium vapour lamps have been converted into LED lights with equivalent luminescence since January 2018.
 
 “We have completed replacing sodium vapour lamps with 90 watts LED lamps on three major stretches altogether measuring 2.8 km at an estimated cost of Rs 96.30 lakh. More arterial roads equipped with SV lamps will be converted to LED lamps to beautify the city,” a senior corporation official said. The civic body as of now has 20, 90, and 120 watt LED lamps as replacement for the existing tubelights, sodium vapour and metal halide lamps. Official sources said that conversion of SV lamps to LED lights on several stretches have been taken up as a proposal as a part of the smart city programme to promote energy conservation.
 
 
