VADODARA: The Gorwa police intensified its search for Devkishan Katadiya,   of  , students of the   took out a rally and went on a strike on Monday demanding that the authorities expedite the process of the tracing him.

 Police team has been dispatched to Gir-Somnath, the native place of Katadiya.
 
 Katadiya had gone missing after he failed in two exams. A note which he has left blames head of department (HoD) of gynaecology for his decision. Gorwa police, however, suggests that prima facie it does not seem that the HoD was responsible for Katadiya’s failure in the exams.
 
 “A panel of six doctors had evaluated all students in which the boy has failed. Therefore one teacher cannot be held at fault as he has mentioned in the letter,” said S M Bharwad, police sub-inspector, Gorwa police station.
 
 The students of Gotri medical college gathered in large numbers at the college to express solidarity with the family members of Katadiya.
 
 “We want to spread message through the rally appealing Devkishan to return back to the college from where he has gone as his parents and his batchmates are worried about him,” said a student, adding that a memorandum was also submitted to the college authorities to press for early investigations into the matter.
 
 While students of the junior batches along with their seniors took part in the mega rally, interns stayed away from work at the hospital. “Devkishan was one of us,” said an intern, adding that “there was no reason for him to take such a step.”
 
 Police has recorded statements of various students of the college besides the teachers, dean of the college and the warden of the hostel. Police said that they have taken footages of CCTV cameras installed at railway station and central bus stand and are examining it in case Katadiya left the city either through bus or train.
 
 Katadiya was to go to Surat on Saturday where his family lives but when he did not reach his father tried calling him several times on his mobile phone, which went unanswered. Later when the warden of the hostel checked his room, his mobile phone, wallet and other belongings were found along with a two-page letter in which he had made allegations against the HoD.
 
 Katadiya’s family has been settled in Surat for the last three decades. His father, who works as a labour contractor, and his elder brother have been camping at the medical college since Saturday night in the hopes that Katadiya will return.
 
 Dangar writes to CM Rupani
 
 Mayor Bharat Dangar wrote to chief minister Vijay Rupani and minister of state for welfare of socially and educationally backward classes Vasan Ahir on Monday to inform about the incident and urging them to serious steps. In his letter Dangar has alleged that several medical professors pressurize students about practical exams and students too are not able to complaint due to fear of failing. He has requested that a probe be done and action be taken against all responsible. Following the representation, the CMO has asked the police commissioner to find Katadiya as soon as possible.
 
 
