Madurai: Printouts of two black and white photographs, one an infant and the other a child with her parents, were put on display at Meenampatti in Sivakasi on Sunday in an austere farewell to the village's most famous native – actress Sridevi.

 T Srinivasan, a distant relative of the actress, says her father Ayyappa Naidu hailed from a family of landlords who ruled the village. Their ancestral home had fallen into disrepair but has now been given a facelift.
 
 Sridevi’s grandfather had not approved of her father’s marriage to Rajeswari from Andhra Pradesh, said Srinivasan, adding that nobody remembers seeing her as a child in the village. Srinivasan says he had looked after her father's office in Chennai for a few years. "My interactions with Sridevi were minimal but I remember her as a very innocent person," he said.
 
 Villagers remember her father frequenting the village but never Sridevi except for a brief period in 1989, when she was at the peak of her fame. The actress came to the village to campaign for her father who contested the Sivakasi seat on a Congress ticket but lost to the DMK candidate.
 
 Dhanalakshmi, a villager, removed her slippers and touched Sridevi’s photograph before standing in front of it with her head bowed for a few minutes. "I saw her when she came here in 1989 and spent about 10 days. She stood on the balcony of this house and waved to us," she said.
 
 Another resident Chandran, 32, said he had collected postcards with her photographs during his school days. "I used to love her movies, without knowing that she was from our village, till my mother once made a mention in a passing remark, and I felt proud," he added. 
 
 R Loganayaki says she remembers seeing Sridevi’s photograph on fireworks boxes and was thrilled when she came to Sivakasi in 1989. "I thought she was extremely beautiful and found it hard to believe that she had roots in Meenampatti like me," she said.
 
 P Prema, another relative, says the family owned large areas of land, which it donated for public causes - the Bharathi Elementary School and a temple stand on land that belonged to the family. "Other family members have distanced themselves from Sridevi’s family. I don’t think they will go for the funeral whereas I would like to but do not have the means," she said wistfully.
 
 
