WASHINGTON: The Trump administration has come out in strong support of the Israeli action against Iranian targets in  , saying the US backs its "staunch" ally's right to "defend" itself.

 The Israeli military on Saturday shot down an Iranian drone that infiltrated the country before launching a "large-scale attack" on at least a dozen Iranian and Syrian targets in Syria.
 
 Israel called it a "severe and irregular violation of Israeli sovereignty" and warned of further action against the unprecedented Iranian aggression.
 
 The White House came out in strong support of Israel, warning   to cease its provocative actions.
 
 "Israel is a staunch ally of the  , and we support its right to defend itself from the Iranian-backed Syrian and militia forces in southern Syria," the White House said in a statement.
 
 "We call on Iran and its allies to cease provocative actions and work toward regional peace," the White House said.
 
 Earlier, the State Department said it is deeply concerned about Sunday's escalation of violence over Israel's border and strongly supports Israel's sovereign right to defend itself.
 
 "Iran's calculated escalation of threat and its ambition to project its power and dominance, places all the people of the region - from Yemen to Lebanon - at risk," the State Department Spokesperson Heather Nauert said.
 
 The US continues to push back on the totality of Iran's malign activities in the region and calls for an end to Iranian behaviour that threatens peace and stability, she said.
 
 In a related development the Israel's Ambassador to the UN Danny Danon urged the   to denounce alleged Iranian action.
 
 "This is not the first time that we have warned you of Iran's dangerous actions that undermine the situation in our region. This incident proves every one of those warnings correct. Israel will defend its citizens and will not tolerate any violation of its sovereignty," he said in a letter to the Security Council.
 
 Danon called upon the Security Council to condemn Iran's actions.
 
 "I call on the Security Council to condemn this dangerous act and to put an immediate end to Iranian provocations. Security Council members must not stand idly by while Iran is instigating dangerous escalations and violating Security Council," he said.
 
