 When it was clear that the honeymoon with Brazil   legend   would end sooner rather than later, it was time for   to start the search for a coach all over again.
 
  Zico came with great pedigree; there are hardly any bigger names than Zico in the world of football, but he also came at a great cost. During his last season with FC Goa – when they finished at the bottom – Zico was the best-paid manager in India, collecting a pay-packet of Rs 4.87 crore for the four-month assignment.
  
  “We started the hunt immediately at the end of the   (last season). We sent word around that we were in the market for a coach and alerted contacts around the world,” said a official who was closely associated with the search.
  
  Within a few days, CVs of top coaches from around the world started landing in the inboxes of FC Goa officials. There was Juande Ramos, formerly manager of Real Madrid. Former Chelsea manager Avram Grant was also among the names which were suggested to Goa, while agents representing Rene Meulensteen (Kerala Blasters), John Gregory (Chennaiyin FC) and Teddy Sheringham (ATK) also knocked on Goa’s doors.
  Goa, though, were not interested in the tried and tested.
  
  “We made it clear to everyone that we wanted a young coach who was hungry for success and swore on the bible of attacking football,” said the official.
  
  Club president Akshay Tandon made a couple of trips to Europe and got into discussions with some famous names. In Portugal, Tandon sat across the table and interviewed Jose Morais, who worked under Jose Mourinho as a coach at Chelsea, Inter Milan and Real Madrid. The current coach of Barnsley FC in the English Championship – a tier below the Premier League – was not the only one to be interviewed.
  
  Tandon also had a word with another Portuguese coach, Paulo Sergio, currently coach at Iranian side Foolad FC.
  
  It was then that former FC Goa midfielder Jofre Gonzalez suggested Sergio Lobera’s name. The young former Barcelona coach, Jofre said, would rejuvenate Goa and take them at least to the doorstep of success.
  
  “We decided to fly him down to Goa to understand what plans he had for the club. We were surprised to know that he had in-depth knowledge about all our first team players. He made a presentation that floored us, but more importantly he was young and hungry for success,” said the official.
  
  Once Tandon had made up his mind that he would trust Lobera, negotiations started. It wasn’t easy, and by the time a deal was finalised at the club headquarters in Porvorim, it was already 3am. Lobera – who turned coach at the age of 24 -- was due to take a flight within a few hours, promising to return soonest.
  
  He did, and got down to business immediately. As FC Goa make its way to the semifinal after a forgettable season last year, the club can afford to pat itself on the back for finding the right man from a heap that had 70 ‘famous’ candidates!
