NEW DELHI: Suman walked hesitantly to the   awareness stall, unsure of what lay in store. She seemed at ease only when the result of her   test showed up as negative. Suman, a transgender, was at a special   organised by   Authority at a school in Rohini on Saturday, the first of many that the body plans to hold. Testing for AIDS was one of the many services provided to the thousands who participated.

 The joint effort of the legal authority, state government departments and volunteers attracted over 5,000 people. Acting chief justice Gita Mittal of Delhi high court, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and judges of the high court and district and sessions courts were also present. “It is difficult to deliver this kind of assistance at the people's doorstep, so this collaboration with various state departments proved successful,” said a happy Sanjeev Jain, judge and   member-secretary.
 
 HIV testing was a special focus since the organisers felt that transgenders and commercial sex workers failed to get the attention and assistance they deserved. "Camps like these are necessary for people who are unaware of their rights or cannot afford such assistance," said Chanderjit Singh, secretary, New Delhi Legal Services Authority.
 
 Despite an injured left arm in a sling, the enthusiasm of deputy director of the state AIDS control department, B C Joshi, did not slacken as he and his team tested 30 people for HIV. There were over 400 others who sought advice not only on their health issues but also their social and legal rights. “We detected eight cases of sexually transmitted infections and provided treatment,” Joshi said.
 
 The stall next to the AIDS awareness booth was a busy place too. There, 55 people came for assistance on alcohol abuse. One of them was Chander Singh (name changed), who wanted help for his brother. “My brother is a 56-year-old retiree and an alcoholic. I want him rehabilitated or else the end will come for him,” said Singh. He was given details of de-addiction centres in Delhi. There was also help on hand for Aadhaar, ration cards, pension schemes for senior citizens, and schemes for unorganised workers, women and children.
 
 
