TIRUPUR: Cracking the murder of an aged couple near   within 24 hours, police on Friday arrested three people, including the 31-year-old   of the victims.

 A strained relationship with his father led to the murder, Periyasamy, a school dropout, told police. “Sixty-five-year-old C Appukutti alias   preferred his elder daughter Jothi over Periyasamy. Palanisami also used to torture   when he was a child and even made him stay with a relative, citing astrological reasons. As Palanisami ‘disliked’ and ‘discriminated’ against him, he decided to murder him, Periyasamy told us. However, his mother also fell prey to the execution,” a police officer said.
 
 Palanisami and his 57-year-old wife Kannammal of Karakattu Thottam in Veeranampalayam village near Kangeyam were found murdered in their farm house on Thursday. “Though Palanisami did not attend school, he was brilliant in money-lending business. He bought the 28-acre mango farm in Karakattu Thottam about five years ago. Periyasamy and Jothi, who were married, were staying at different places in Kangeyam. While Palanisami sought Periyasamy’s help to manage the unregistered money-lending business, he also used to humiliate him. When a brick manufacturing unit Periyasamy started with the help of his father incurred a heavy loss, Palanisami refused to give him Rs 2 lakh. On the other hand, Palanisami gifted a property worth around Rs 1 crore to Jothi,” the officer said.
 
 Feeling that if the situation continues, he won’t get any ancestral property, Periyasamy sought the help of farm labourers Nagaraj and Yuvaraj to finish off his father. “Nagaraj had faced the wrath of Palanisami when he was employed at the mango grove. Yuvaraj, who was working in the grove, was also ill-treated by Palanisami. So, when Periyasamy revealed his plan to murder his father, the farm labourers agreed to help him and demanded Rs 2 lakh and Rs 1 lakh respectively,” the officer told TOI.
 
 As per their plan, Periyasamy started his lonely ‘Arupadai’ pilgrimage to six abodes of Lord Muruga on Wednesday. On that night, Nagaraj and Yuvaraj hacked Palanisami and Kannammal to death when they were asleep. Though the duo was planning to kill only Palanisami, they had to kill the woman also after she woke up and identified them. The killers snatched the   chain worn by Kannammal, but left behind gold bangles and earrings. They also took away Rs 40,000 from the house,” said the officer.
 
 Police began to suspect the involvement of Periyasamy right from his visit to the Kangeyam police station for lodging the complaint. “We quickly confirmed that it was not a case of murder for gain and zeroed on him. The nervous man soon confessed to the crime,” Kangeyam police inspector S Murugesan said.
 
 District superintendent of police ES Uma said, “Contradictory statements made by the three helped us to unravel the truth. Moreover, the team led by Kangeyam circle   R Krishnasamy took the investigation in the right direction.”
 
 
