SRINAGAR: Civil society groups led by the   (JHCBA) have called for a strike in the city on Wednesday in protest against the government’s “anti-Jammu policies”, alleged demographic change and what they claim is the failure of the   to fulfil pre-election promises made to the people of Jammu.
 
  The strike call has been given to press for demands of relocation of Rohingya refugees settled in Jammu, withdrawal of the tribal ministry’s decision which directs police not to intervene in matters related to forest land under tribals, granting of district status to Nowshera, a town along the Line of Control, and handing over the case of rape and murder of an eight-year-old girl in Kathua from J&K police’s crime branch to the Central Bureau of Investigation.
  
  The residents of border areas have also hit out at the government as they have to face frequent firing from   that has amplified along the international border and the Line of Control in Jammu since the PDP-BJP coalition assumed power in February 2015.
  
  
 
  
  The late PDP chief Mufti Mohammad Sayeed had termed the alliance a confluence of the North Pole and the South Pole. Jammu had predominantly voted for the BJP and Kashmir for the PDP in the assembly election. In Jammu, people claim the coalition is failing its raison detre’.
  
  “We were forced to come on streets because the government has failed. The BJP agrees on everything but does nothing on ground.   are a national security threat. Some Kashmiri organisations are supporting them here. Let the government shift these people to Kashmir,” JHCBA president BS Slathia told ET.
  
  “There is absolute difference between the psyche of Jammuites and Kashmiris. Everybody in Jammu stands for India, unlike people in Kashmir,” he said. Slathia cautioned that a “narrative and discourse” was being formed in Jammu which could lead to 2008 Amarnath land row type situation, when people from Jammu blocked the only highway connecting two regions, imposing an economic blockade on Valley for more than two months.
  
  The opposition is also blaming the government for fanning “communal tensions” in region, which it says can have disastrous consequences.
  
  According to official figures, Pakistan was involved in 881 ceasefire violations in 2017, more than in the previous years, and the count was 192 in January 2018 alone.
  
  Harsh Dev Singh, chairman of Panthers Party, said the BJP had surrendered its policy for the sake of power. “Stone pelters are given amnesty and jobs in Kashmir and educated youth of Jammu is unemployed. The gap between   has increased. Communal tensions in Jammu suit both the PDP and BJP to gain votes,” Singh told ET.
  
  The BJP has 26 MLAs including ten ministers and 10 MLC’s in state legislature. At Jammu University Prof. Dipankar Sengupta, who teaches economics, said the government was in paralysis and unable to devolve any democratic processes to grassroots level. BJP spokesman Arun Gupta rubbished such claims.
  
  “Jammu is the core constituency of the BJP in the state and there is no possibility of ignoring it. We agree with most of the concerns of Bar Association but everything is being solved through a process. The BJP doesn’t have any communal agenda and we are a national party ruling over 20 states and cannot have an outlook of a sub-regional party,” Gupta told ET.
  
  As of now, J&K police also thinks that there is no apparent law and order issue or threat of communal tension in Jammu. “There is not any sort of flare up or fear of communal problem in Jammu,” Inspector General of Jammu region S D Singh Jamwal told ET.
  
  Contrary to this a political commentator from Jammu said, “communal Jammu and violent Kashmir is a perfect recipe for BJP to sell to electorate across India ahead of 2019 elections.”
  
