KANNUR:   has said the sports training facilities should be decentralized and more such infrastructure should come up in the rural areas where there are many children with sporting talent.

 Inaugurating the   at Kakkad here on Monday, as part of the SMILE (Sports Minister’s Infrastructural Leap to Excellence) project under the National Games Secretariat (NGS), and built under the joint aegis of the   and the  , the Speaker said instead of centralising all the sports complexes and similar facilities in major cities and towns, there should also be facilities to identify and train young children in rural areas who have sports skills.
 
 A small country like North Korea made such a progress in sports because of the micro-level training it provides and the infrastructure they developed for the purpose, he opined.
 
 Though the swimming pool was constructed nearly three years back, it was not formally inaugurated due to many technical issues and also there were allegations that the pool was built in an encroached land which was part of  . However, all such issues have been settled now.
 
 The 25 m x 12.5 m swimming pool, constructed at an estimated expenditure of Rs 1.04 crore, has six tracks and it has been constructed on a 94 cent plot belonging to the District Sports Council. The pool has the facilities for organising swimming races and coaching during day and night, said the Sports Council officials.
 
 Initially it was built with an expense of Rs 55 lakh under the SMILE project and the work was completed in 2015, but it remained unused for long due to the technical problems including the water treatment facilities, and hence the renovation using additional funds.
 
 Now that it is ready, the plan is to provide swimming coaching in the day time and swimming during evening time, said the Sports Council officials.
 
 The inaugural function was presided over by Kannur Corporation Mayor EP Latha. District Collector Mir Mohammed Ali inaugurated the swimming coaching programme. District Sports Council president OK Vineesh and Secretary Rajendran Nair among others were also present at the function.
 
 
