MUMBAI: The entry of private   and   into   will be restricted from 7am to midnight, according to a fresh notification issued by Mumbai   police on Wednesday. This is a permanent order.

 Private tourist and company bus operators have threatened to protest if the circular is not amended or withdrawn, sources said.
 
 The order states: “Due to a steep increase in vehicles plying on city roads and ongoing works of mega projects, plying of heavy vehicles and private buses occupying large road space is causing severe obstructions to traffic flow. This is causing great danger and inconvenience to public.”
 
 It also stated that heavy vehicles and private buses can ply in south Mumbai from 12.01am to 6.59am.
 
 A senior traffic police officer said the restrictions were permanent. However if the need arises to make changes, the restrictions will be revisited and a revision will be done. “The circular was issued looking at   work in South Mumbai and movement of heavy private vehicles has taken a toll on normal vehicle movement. The decision was taken after witnessing traffic blocks and jams increasing in South Mumbai,” said the officer. 
 
 Vehicles supplying vegetables, milk, bread, bakery products, water, petrol, diesel and kerosene will be exempted, and ambulances, government, semi-government vehicles and school buses can also ply. Tankers supplying drinking water will also be exempted.
 
 Harsh Kotak of Mumbai Bus Malak Sanghatna said, “If tourist buses are not allowed to enter south Mumbai and company-owned buses are not allowed to ply to commercial hubs, it will inconvenience scores of citizens. Buses arrive from Pune and terminate near Mumbai docks. Do you want these passengers to alight from buses and be stranded midway?”
 
 He said they were exploring all options to get the order revoked but if talks failed, they may resort to a strike. “A bus commuter occupies less road space than a private car passenger,” he pointed out.
 
 The notification, issued by deputy police commissioner (traffic) Sanjay Jadhav, also restricts parking of vehicles in the jurisdiction of Greater Mumbai. The order said all private buses carrying passengers entering and leaving Mumbai and heavy vehicles, including those supplying essential services but excluding ambulances, government and semi-government vehicles and school buses, can be parked at privately owned spaces or rented spaces, or at authorised pay-and-park spaces.
 
 ‘On street parking’ of these vehicles on any other road in Greater Mumbai has also been prohibited, said an official. “However, two tankers will be permitted to be parked on the nearby road to the source of water,” he said.
 
 Heavy vehicles (except all buses) are restricted 24 hours from Eastern Freeway, the order stated.
 
 A senior official said, “To prevent danger, obstructions and inconvenience to the public, a similar notification was issued last September on an experimental basis. Taking into consideration objections and suggestions received by traffic police, DCP Jadhav issued the fresh order.”
 
 
