NEW DELHI: The   took less than a minute on Monday to stop the J&K police from taking any coercive action against   Kumar, named in an FIR lodged at Shopian for an   unit firing at a stone-pelting mob and the death of a local. A three-judge bench issued notice to the J&K government and asked standing counsel M Shoeb Alam to file a response in two weeks to a plea by Major Aditya’s father, Lt Col Karamveer Singh, who sought quashing of the Shopian FIR that levels murder charges against his son. 

 Singh claimed the FIR was intended to frame his son. Singh claimed his son was not present at the site of the incident in Shopian, and that the FIR against the latter would destroy the morale of armed forces operating in trying circumstances in disturbed areas. Taking note of the petition by an Army officer, who had fought Pakistani forces in   19 years ago, the bench sought the assistance of AG K K Venugopal and asked him to “put forth” before the court the Centre’s stand on this incident and the FIR. 
 
 Appearing for Lt Col Singh, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi uttered just one sentence — “it is a very serious issue” — when the bench started dictating the order. Singh had moved the court through advocate   and requested the SC to protect “the morale of soldiers facing all odds in performance of their bona fide duties and laying down their lives in the line of duty to uphold the dignity of the Indian flag”. Lt Col Singh said the soldiers opened fire purely in “selfprotection” to disburse a stone-pelting mob and save themselves from being lynched. 
 
 “The manner in which the lodging of the FIR has been portrayed and projected by the political leadership and administrative higherups of the state reflects the extremely hostile atmosphere in the state,” he said. “The unruly behaviour of the unlawful assembly reached its peak when they got hold of a JCO and was in the process of lynching him to death. 
 
 It was at this moment warning shots were fired which as per the said terms of engagement is the last resort to be taken before opening fire. The unlawful assembly again refused to spare the life of the officer and, therefore, fire was lawfully opened with an aim to disperse the violent mob,” Singh added.
