CHENNAI: The regional connectivity scheme may make it easy to fly to small towns but the flip side is the lack of emergency medical care at many of these airports.

  In the wake of the death of a scientist following a heart attack before boarding a flight in Varanasi last year, the   ( ) is holding internal discussions to beef up medical facilities at these airports.
 
 A petition by a relative of Lalji Singh, the scientist who died at Varanasi airport, has drawn attention to the absence of medical facilities at small airports. 
 
 The scientist was travelling from Varanasi to Hyderabad when he suffered a heart attack. “He was left stranded at the airport where there was no oxygen cylinder, no doctor and no ambulance to help him. It was only two hours later that he received medical intervention at a distant hospital, but by then it was too late,” said the petition.
 
 Under the Udan phase one scheme, flights are scheduled to begin to Salem, Neyveli and Hosurthis year. Similarly, Thanjavur airport will also be opened under phase two of the scheme. Unable to provide round the clock medical facilities at these airports, the AAI is looking at various options to ensure that the medical needs of passengers are taken care of.
 
 After the Varanasi incident, the AAI chairman discussed the need for medical centres at small airports in his meetings with officials. 
 
 “We have enlisted hospitals and doctors on call at some small airports so that they could be summoned if there is an emergency. If a pilot informs about a medical emergency, we call doctors from these hospitals. But the response varies from place to place. Some towns like Salem, Neyveli and Thanjavur do not have good hospitals near the airports. This means that the doctors may take time to reach. However, we have given training on first aid to fire and rescue services personnel to handle minor medical emergencies,” said a senior AAI official.
 
 The official said that hospitals may not be keen to station staff at airports with low traffic. "It may not be feasible to have a medical centre at every airport on the lines of Chennai where   has set up a centre where doctors and paramedics are available round the clock. It is not easy to get hospitals to keep their teams at small airports.”
 
 However, AAI has succeeded in arranging for medical care at some small airports. 
 
 “In Puducherry and  , we have enlisted doctors from nearby hospitals, while in Tirupati we have opened a medical centre by a reputed hospital because of the traffic. 
 
 The Tirupati airport has a good number of unscheduled aircraft landing, mostly private jets, as it is a spiritual centre,” said an official.
 
