BENGALURU: During his whirlwind tour of Mumbai-Karnataka,   president Rahul Gandhi assured that the women’s reservation bill would be passed in   and urged the state party unit to give more tickets to   in the coming assembly elections. Going by precedent, though, the chances of the party delivering on his word seem bleak.

 
  
 Aspiring   leaders say the “mindset” of party leaders is the biggest obstacle. “The Siddaramaiah government took a historic step by enhancing the reservation for women from 33% to 50% in panchayati raj institutions and urban local bodies and reaped full dividends. Now the party has been promising more tickets to women aspirants to repeat it. But that’s easier said than done in the assembly polls,” said one of them. This is despite women accounting for 48% of the voters in the state
 
 Congress fielded only eight women candidates in Karnataka in 2013 when Sonia Gandhi was at the helm. Of them, two won and a third woman candidate later won a bypoll and went on to become a minister in Siddaramaiah’’s cabinet. Congress is not alone; both BJP and JD(S) have been giving women a raw deal when it comes to contesting in polls. In the previous assembly polls, of 175 women who contested, including independents, only six got elected to the 224-member Karnataka assembly. This was three more than the number of women in the 2008 polls. 
 
 The reasons are not hard to find. Political parties continue to doubt the capability of women candidates to compete with their male opponents and match them with money and muscle power. Given this scenario, tickets are issued only to women with connections to political families or with a cinema background.
 
 On occasion, the ticket has gone to a woman to ride a sympathy wave. Sugar minister MC Mohan Kumari (Geetha) was thrust into the hurly-burly of politics following the death of her husband, cooperation minister HS Mahadevaprasad. While party leaders campaigned for her, Geetha merely stood beside them with folded hands.
 
 Even if women do get elected, few have risen much further. Karnataka has not had a woman chief minister, deputy chief minister or home minister so far. Tellingly, none of the parties has had a woman president either.
 
 “Women’s leadership can only grow if they get adequate opportunities at party forums and with reservation,” said a former woman minister. “Patriarchal political systems which do not tolerate women at the highest level block all such opportunities by creating a separate women’s wing. Unless backed by family or party, a woman can’t mobilise support and win polls. Therefore, the need of the hour is reservation for women as it forces men to fall in line as it has happened in panchayats and urban local bodies.”
 
