NEW DELHI: The harmonious blend of gleaming steel, colourful art and tasteful jali panels below the ground are in sharp contrast to the overground scene at Delhi Metro’s   station on the upcoming  . For 18 metres above the modern serenity is urban chaos — congested Naraina village and residential localities cheek by jowl with the metro stop. The densely populated village posed a big challenge during construction, and as a rail company official said, “We had to use building techniques never used anywhere else on the network.”

 
 
  
 
 
 “Traffic management in the narrow lanes leading to the station box site was a big problem, while we couldn’t hamper life in the residential areas during the movement of our massive machinery,” the official said. Land acquisition too was a nightmare, the site of the station being located directly below the existing DDA shopping complex.
 
  got space only to build the entry and exit gates and had to fight for the additional land. “After shopkeepers were initially reluctant to move out of the complex, we had to sign an MoU for them to allow construction and then move into a new shopping complex to be built for them,” the official revealed, pointing to the multi-storey pink building in the distance.
 
 Space was so scarce that DMRC did not get land to build shafts for lowering the tunnel boring machine and for the first time, both the station box and the tunnel were built utilising the same space. “It took us 30 days just to drag the 427-tonne boring machine over 210 metres, making sure the platform, which had already been built, wasn’t harmed during the tunnelling process,” said the official. This also meant that unlike during tunnelling elsewhere, here the boring machine could be moved only 20 metres a day.
 
 The Naraina   has no parking space, so a dedicated lane has been laid out to facilitate pick up and drop. This will be welcomed by the 1.5 lakh people who are likely to use the station. The new station has in its vicinity  , Naraina village and the industrial areas of Shadipur and Loha Mandi and parts of Mayapuri. 
 
 Belying the congestion on the ground, the station below is an oasis of aesthetics. Entries had been invited from artists across Delhi and the winning entries have been reproduced in the form of 40 digitally printed glass panels. The station platforms have been adorned with the traditional jali work to provide a red-and-pink-sandstone ambience.
 
 The station is ready to open, but some residents are not happy. Shailendera Kumar Vashisht, president of the A Block DDA Commercial Complex Welfare Association, complained, “There is unhappiness and resentment among residents of Naraina because the station gates pose a threat to their security and invades their privacy.”
 
 
