Chandigarh: The ambitious project of the UT administration to authorise automobile agencies to register   is yet to see light of the day.

 The administration from past over one year is working to introduce the system with an aim to spare residents the ordeal of running from pillar to post to get their vehicles registered.
 
 The central government is also working on introducing law for making registration of vehicles by dealers mandatory. The system is already in place in Delhi, Punjab, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana.
 
 Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA) had supplied software designed by National Informatics Centre (NIC) for testing to two Industrial Area-based automobile agencies. Both the agencies faced technical issues as they were not being able to establish link with the bank for making payments and the same was conveyed to the authorities. The software is linked with Vahan2, a pan India online motor vehicle registration database.
 
 There are a total of 52 automobile agencies of different car and two-wheelers manufacturers operating from phases I and II of Industrial Area.
 
 Talking to TOI, V S Saluja, president, Chandigarh Car Dealers Association, said the software was tested in July last year. “There were some issues which were conveyed to the RLA, but we have not heard from them,” said Saluja.
 
 UT transport secretary K K Jindal said the directions have been issued to the officials concerned for expediting the process. “We are hopeful of starting the initiative in next few months,” said Jindal.
 
 With introduction of the system, the work load of the agencies will increase. Automobile dealers have urged the administration to compensate additional cost which the agencies will have to bear after launch of the scheme.
 
 “Our work will increase manifold and the administration should allow us to charge a nominal fee,” said Saluja.
 
 At present, vehicle registration is done by Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA).
 
 Currently for getting a vehicle registered, applicant has to undergo tedious process starting from filing the forms, get vehicle passed and submitting of documents to RLA. The current system has led to flourishing of touts.
 
 Once the service is launched, customers will be provided with registration number on the spot, while the registration certificate (RC) will be dispatched by RLA through post.
 
 The current process
 
 Purchase registration of new vehicle file from RLA
 
 Complete and attach all required documents/forms as per check list
 
 Get your vehicle inspection (passing) conducted by motor vehicle inspector
 
 Obtain a token from RC counter at RLA office
 
 Deposit complete file and fees at counter
 
 Registration certificate (RC) will be dispatched via speed post at given address
 
 
