CHENNAI: With a view to giving a push to the defence   project - Tamil Nadu Defence Quad - announced by Union finance minister Arun Jaitley in this year budget, the defence ministry has said that a team of officials will soon visit Tamil Nadu. Initially, they will hold discussion with industrialists and promoters of MSMEs in the state to prepare a detailed project report. 

 The corridor aims at linking Chennai, Salem, Coimbatore, Trichy and   to Bengaluru and creating enabling infrastructure to sustain it. As per the orders of the defence minister Nirmala Sitaraman, senior officials from the ministry, Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd., Bharat Electronics Ltd., Bharat Earth Movers Ltd. and Ordnance Factories will meet industrialists and MSMEs in the state from March 5. The ministry has invited industrialists to these meetings.
 
 "The Union government has de-reserved 148 items under Make 2 and a separate defence investors' cell has been created for the entrepreneurs to approach the ministry with new ideas and products," said defence production secretary  .
 
 At present, around 20% of the components used in defence equipment are made by MSMEs. This could go up. By 2020, the total procurement from MSMEs could be around 10,000 crore, he said. 
 
 "The department will engage a top consultancy firm to draw up the DPR for the Quad," said a statement from the defence ministry. It is expected that with government opening up new opportunities for industry in defence sector, the Tamil Nadu Defence Quad will provide a major opportunity to the vibrant manufacturing sector in the state, the official said.
 
 "These interactions are being organised with the active participation of the local Small Scale Industries Associations and the state government representatives. The first such interaction was held at Hosur on February 26. In Coimbatore, officials will meet industry associations on March 5. The meet in Salem will be held on March 7 and in Chennai on March 10," he said.
 
 Meanwhile, the state government is yet to decide on giving Nanguneri SEZ to the defence ministry. "We had asked for it but we have not recieved any message from the state government to use the SEZ for defence ministry. It will help many people in the area get jobs if the SEZ is used to make equipment for defence ministry," Union minister Pon Radhakrishnan said.
 
 
