NAGPUR: It seems that the Nagpur Municipal Corporation has no able engineers or officials to monitor development works.

 On Thursday, the standing committee gave nod to appoint two project management consultants for different works.
 
 The first firm, Central Road Research Institute (CRRI), will be appointed to oversee quality of cement road works being carried out under Phase. The second project management consultant will be appointed to monitor works of two private agencies entrusted with assessment of properties. It will also assist the property tax department to settle tax disputes along with updating tax data, said standing committee chairman Virendra Kukreja. 
 
 He said the panel gave nod to city engineer’s proposal to appoint CRRI to audit cement roads. According to him, the agency will work along with GeoTech, a Pune-based agency, to audit the quality of works. He said the second agency has been appointed following a demand from city-based NGO Jan Manch over poor quality of cement road works.
 
 He claimed that as per his knowledge, there was no complaint about poor quality of cement road works being executed in the city. Though Kukreja admitted that cement roads are being laid at a slow pace, he said no contractors have been fined. He blamed the slow work due to ongoing   works and lack of permission from the traffic police. 
 
 The panel also gave nod to entrust Zigma Global Environ Solutions Pvt Ltd for biomining of 10 lakh tonnes garbage. The project is likely to put an end to frequent fire incidents at the garbage dumping site.
 
 As per the proposal,   will pay Rs1,051 per tonne to the private company. It will amount to a whopping Rs101.50 crore. It is also proposed to produce refuse derived fuel (RDF) from the garbage. If successful, the cost will reduce by Rs250 per tonne saving about Rs25 crore.
 
 Nod to other proposals 
 
 Issue work order to private company for displaying advertisement on 550 banners installed on footpaths 
 
 Appoint a private company for fish farming in Gandhisagar Lake for 3 years 
 
 Procurement of tar worth Rs3 crore for asphalting roads
 
 Parking charges of Rs5 for bicycle, Rs10 for two-wheelers and Rs20 for cars at Suresh Bhat Hall
 
 3-month extension to 47 engineers on contract basis engaged in monitoring ongoing cement road works
 
 
