KOHIMA: Nagaland chief minister   on Friday presented an estimated deficit budget of Rs 1657.67 crore for the 2018-19 fiscal. 

 Presenting the budget in the state assembly, Rio, who also holds the finance portfolio, said there was a negative balance of Rs 1437.67 crore last year and transactions in the current financial year is estimated to result in a negative balance of 220 crore, totalling a negative balance of Rs 1637.67 crore. However, no new tax was proposed by the People's Democratic Alliance (PDA) government.
 
 In a 110-minute speech, the chief minister also told the   that the estimated total receipt is estimated at Rs 18,232.51 crore and the expenditure is estimated at Rs 18,305.40 crore for the current financial year.
 
 Rio apprised that Rs 168.64 crore has been earmarked under non-development plans for maintenance of existing government assets, including roads. It will be ensured that this amount is judiciously distributed on the basis of actual requirements, he said.
 
 "To improve the overall quality of roads for a connected Nagaland, the first priority of the government is to start repair and maintenance of roads in the state capital and the district headquarters within sixty days, for which an amount of Rs 50 crore has been provided," Rio said. "The government is also committed to take definite steps to improve rail and air connectivity for the people of our state, which will have a significant impact on our economic growth and developmental process," he added.
 
 "As an effort to make conscious strides for uplift and empowerment of women, the government plans on introducing pink buses in the state capital and the commercial hub Dimapur on a pilot basis," Rio said. The buses will be pressed into service on selective routes, will operate at subsidized rates and will have seats reserved for women. The government will also introduce a 24-hour helpline to assist and help women in distress, victims of domestic violence and abuse, the chief minister said.
 
 In the industrial sector, the government will begin key policy interventions to set up businesses and ease of doing business will be a priority, Rio said. At the same time, industrialization should be locally driven and not injected from outside, he added. In the health sector, the World Bank is funding a first-of-its-kind state-level 'Nagaland Health Project', to be implemented by the directorate of health and family welfare. The project seeks to improve health services and is composed of community action on health, nutrition and health system development, Rio apprised.
 
 
