TRICHY: The government exhibition at   in the city remains the only entertainment avenue for Trichiites but its inaccessibility and unhygienic surroundings have been the least amusing for those who choose to visit the venue braving the odds. 

 It may be recalled that the government had chosen the 4.5 acres for the location despite it being entangled in legal battle due to alleged encroachment. However, what came as a turnoff for the people was the lack of direct bus connectivity to the exhibition ground which started functioning on January 8.
 
 “The choice of location for the annual exhibition is shocking. Since Trichy people are deprived of an entertainment spot, the government expo with the stalls for information and amusement was one of the very few amusing events. This year, the location is not accessible to those coming by bus,” said S   from   who was one of the several people who hired an autorickshaw to reach the spot on Tuesday. 
 
 Situated alongside the polluted   canal on   road and surrounded by a cemetery and common toilets, the location is covered by thorny bushes. It was the last resort of the district administration after their efforts to avail of the usual venue – the St Vestry’s school ground – failed following a court order not to utilise educational institution grounds for such purposes. 
 
 On finalising the lcoation hardly ten days before the exhibition began, the district administration removed the bushes only to find garbage peppered with sharp objects such as broken glass pieces on the ground. Such glass pieces were still protruding at many points despite red soil being dumped in the area. A worker at one of the food stalls claimed that he found a human bone when he dug the ground to erect a pole. This was because the location was once used as graveyard as well. The entrance fees for adults and children were Rs 15 and Rs 10 respectively for the 4 pm to 10 pm event. The exhibition has been scheduled to go on till February 20. Such drawbacks even prevented vendors from occupying the stalls put up at the exhibition. Except the government department stalls, the setup was not attractive to the vendors, sources said. 
 
 The makeshift toilet facilities also remained a potential risk with high chances of poisonous insects coming into the venue from the bushes around the spot. As if these were not enough, the mosquitoes breeding in the Uyyakondan canal also posed the threat of spreading dengue. Ultimately, the elected representatives are being blamed for their failure to identify a permanent location for conducting government exhibition and other mega events in the city.
 
 “If we had found a permanent vast area, we would not have relied on such risky locations where events like these are not supposed to be conducted,” said a social worker, Paul Guna Loganath.
 
 
