LUDHIANA: Just a few hours left for MC elections, scheduled to start at 8am on Saturday, clashes broke out across Ludhiana on Friday.

 While several candidates and their supporters were attacked, several scuffles were reported among rival political parties. These incidents kept police on toes till late Friday evening, even though as cops claimed that the law and order was under control.
 
 Among those who were allegedly attacked were SAD-BJP candidate from ward number 36 Jagbir   and independent candidate from ward number 31 Monika Gumber’s husband.
 
 The city also witnessed protests by supporters, seeking action against those indulging in violence. Police said all these incidents were being probed and strict action would be taken against all those found violating law.
 
 In his complaint to the police, Sokhi accused   candidate and his workers of attacking his car on Friday afternoon. Sokhi complained that he was checking the arrangements in the ward when Congress candidate Prince Johar and his supporters attacked his car with weapons. Sokhi said he somehow managed to escape and the miscreants fled the spot. Shimlapuri police reached the spot and started investigation.
 
 In a similar complaint, Monika Gumbar alleged that she along with her husband   Gumbar and other supporters was returning home in a car late on Friday evening when motorcycle-borne miscreants signaled them to stop in Jain colony. As soon as Varinder came out, the miscreants attacked him with a sharp-edged weapon. The injured, who belonged to Shiv Sena Hindustan, was rushed to Ludhiana civil hospital, following which the members of Shiv Sena Hindustan also reached the hospital.
 
 Police have started investigations after recording the statement of the injured.
 
 High drama was witnessed in   when Congress and Akali workers allegedly indulged in a scuffle in ward number 48, from where Parvinder Lapran (Congress) and   (SAD-BJP) are the key contestants.
 
 Gurjeet Chabra later alleged that while his brother Gurpreet, brother-in-law Lucky Bhatia and some supporters were installing a tent near the polling booth, Congress candidate Lapran, his father Gurdev Lapran and supporters reached the spot and manhandled his party workers. He also alleged that when he reached the spot, Lapran fired in the air and also vandalized his car. Later, Dugri and Model Town police reached the spot and recorded statements.
 
 Parvinder Lapran, however, denied allegations and claimed that he and his father were not even present on the spot. He also accused the SAD candidate of attacking the vice-president of Youth Congress Pappal Kapoor and also injuring a minor. “My supporters were busy in preparations when the SAD supporters attacked them. They manhandle our Youth Congress worker Pappal Kapoor and during the attack, a 14-year-old son of one of my supporters was injured and had to be admitted in a hospital,” he said.
 
 He added Kapoor has also filed a complaint against SAD leaders with Model Town police station.
 
 Box: City police commissioner R N Dhoke said, “There are full security arrangements for the polling day as about 5,000 cops will be on duty to ensure no untoward incident takes place on polling day. “Police have declared 280 polling booths sensitive. These polling booths would be under CCTV surveillance which would further be accessible to the police officers and returning officers on their mobile phones. Besides, extra patrolling would also be provided for these polling booths.”
 
 Talking about the violent incidents, Dhoke said, “The police will not spare anyone creating ruckus and violence. FIR would be lodged after inquiry in all the cases.”
 
 “The police will remain on road for the whole night. Checkpoints will be established at 12 entry points of city. In addition, about 40 checkpoints will be established in different areas,” he said.
 
 
