The   may have left civic taxes unchanged, opting to tap into its reserves, but it also plans to increase charges for accessing an array of services, including medical facilities at civic hospitals. It proposes to increase licence fees, including those for wholesale markets, and factory permits. By taking this route, the civic body hopes to meet to an extent its revenue shortfall and cover losses due to a slowdown in the real estate sector. While some have decried the move, especially the hike in service charges, others say an increase is fine as long as the BMC ensures delivery of quality.

 Civic officials said these charges have not been touched for decades, and it was high time they were rationalized. Municipal commissioner Ajoy   in his speech proposed a 20% hike in hospital service charges for residents of Mumbai and 30% for patients who come from outside the city. Mehta said, “It is pertinent to mention that there is no increase in taxation in the ensuing budget. However, with a view to increase our revenue income from other sources, rates of some of the fees and charges being collected are revised or proposed to be revised.”
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Civic officials said they have no plans to increase most categories of licence fees, except mainly for wholesale markets, which include the Deonar abattoir. They said an increase in proposed charges will not add up to the civic body’s income dramatically, but will be a small step to shore up finances. A BMC insider said that besides the construction industry slowdown causing the civic body loss of revenue, there is also a decline because of GST. This has forced the civic body to seek alternative modes of revenue generation, without inviting public criticism.
 
 
  
  
 
 Opposition leader in the   strongly criticized the move to increase service charges. “We will not clear the proposal. We will oppose it in the standing committee as the BMC is not giving quality service. It does not give proper facilities. Medicines are not available in civic hospitals. Most patients are referred to private hospitals. On top of all this, now comes this unacceptable proposal,” said Raja.
 
