MADURAI: Sweet pongal made with rice, dal, jaggery and generous amount of nuts and raisins in not everyone’s idea of a wholesome meal, but many in Madurai think otherwise.  , popularly known as the Pongal shop has been serving this special dish for the past 51 years.
 
 Sowrashtrians, who moved from Gujarat to Madurai centuries ago are masters at making a variety of dish with rice and pongal is one of their speciality, which can be had with or without a side dish. AR Rajaram, who came from this community, in the year 1967 decided to make a living by doing what he knew best: cooking. He decided to make sweet pongal for an auspicious beginning. He set up shop in the pavement on  , opposite to New Ramnad Road.
 
 Crowds, including those who came to watch movies at   thronged for his special dish. After his demise, his sons AR Gopalram and AR Ramji decided to expand the business, due to the ever increasing customers and set up a small shop in the nearby street. They began offering idli and dosa in addition to pongal.
 
 Now, the third generation of brothers AR Jayaram and AR Madusoodanan operate the business which still just serves food without any cooking taking place at the shop. In addition to sweet Pongal, they now serve ven pongal- the savoury form of it.
 
 Due to demand, they have also started making chapatis, dosa, idli at the shop. In addition they serve tomato rice, lemon rice, tamarind rice, curd and chapatis. All the rice dishes are cooked at home and parcelled in banana leaves.
 
 The shop opens at 12 noon and goes on till 11.15pm. It has a couple of tables where hungry customer can sit and have their meal. While sweet pongal is priced at Rs15 a plate, others dishes range from Rs22 to Rs25 per plate. “The items never cause any stomach problems and can be had for any meal. I am a regular here,” said T Ramakrishnan, a teacher at a school in the area.
 
 QUOTE: It is a full meal with goodness of ghee, jaggery and rice and it is healthy as well. It can be had at all seasons | K Saravanan, Customer 
 
 Signature dish: Sweet pongal, ven pongal, variety rice, dosa, idlies
 
 When: 12pm – 11:15 pm
 
 Where: Old Kuyavarpalayam Road, Munichalai 
 
 
