AURANGABAD: High pollution levels for five consecutive years had prompted the  , Jalna and Latur municipal bodies in   to start working on an action plan on improving the quality of air last December. 

 However, only Aurangabad and Latur have submitted their plans for sanction to the   ( ). The draft plan of Jalna is ready but it is still to be submitted for sanction. 
 
 The CPCB had found the particulate matter having diameter of 10 micrometers or less (PM10) and nitrogen dioxide (NO2) levels in these cities to be higher levels than the permissible levels. The CPCB analysed the data of PM10 and NO2 levels between 2011 and 2015. 
 
 According to CPCB, unscientific disposal of waste has led to major air pollution in almost all 94 cities. Out of the 94, there is not a single city that meets the standards for PM10. The CPCB noted that construction activities without mitigation measures and open burning were responsible for increasing PM10 levels.
 
 Consequently, the municipal corporations of these cities were asked to submit an action plan regarding steps to be taken to curb pollution. It identified that the emission from vehicles, gensets, poor roads, construction and demolition activities, the climatic conditions and meagre forest cover in these cities had caused deterioration of the air quality.
 
 Air quality expert Geetanjali Kaushik said the dry atmosphere, poor condition of roads, large amount of building and demolition activities and the steep rise in number of vehicles in these cities are concerning. 
 
 "The forest cover in Latur and Jalna is dramatically low at 0.35% and 0.63% respectively. Aurangabad is a little better at 8.8%, but far less than what it should be," Kaushik said. 
 
 Kaushik had helped the municipal councils in Jalna and Latur and the municipal corporation in Aurangabad to prepare the air quality action.
 
 "These cities also had limited systems for air quality monitoring and almost negligible efforts for awareness about air pollution through campaigns or display boards," she said. 
 
 Considering this, the key measures listed in the action plan for these cities were improving the public transport system, use of bio-diesel for running public buses, strengthening the   checking system and taking up tree plantation initiatives. 
 
 In addition, the focus was on building a proper air quality monitoring system, putting up display boards, taking up awareness campaigns at mass levels and holding meetings of stakeholders.
 
 Aurangabad and Latur held meeting with different stakeholders likes industrialists, public representatives, bureaucrats and residents earlier this year. However, owing to the waste crisis, the air pollution took a back seat in Aurangabad. Latur officials cited lack of funds to initiate measures towards reducing its air pollution. 
 
