KOLKATA: Coming as a big boost in the food and beverages sector, the state government has signed two MoUs with momo giant Wow! Momo and Speciality Group of Restaurants at the Bengal Global Business Summit, with the former planning to open a chain of Bengali cuisine restaurant and the latter to set up a hospitality training academy in   by this year.

 City-based Wow! Momo, which started with a single store inside Spencers in 2008 and now boasts of having 150 plus outlets across India, signed the MoU with the state fisheries department where the government promised to provide them with best quality raw materials at cheapest possible price.
 
 “We are planning to start a pan-India chain of Bengali cuisine restaurant. As per the deal, the government has assured us complete support. We will get the best quality fish, chicken and prawn directly from the fishermen without any middleman. The cost of raw materials is expected to be 60% cheaper than the market rate,” said Sagar Daryani, CEO and co-founder of Wow! Momo.
 
 Daryani added that the company is also building a first-of-its-kind six storeyed, 24,000 square feet momo factory in   with an investment of Rs 20 crores. “There will be floors dedicated to manufacturing of different varieties of momos that would be exported, a research and development centre, a sauce manufacturing unit and a packaging hub. It will serve direct employment to 500 more people,” said Daryani.
 
 On Tuesday, Anjan   of Mainland China and Oh! Calcutta fame had signed an MoU with Paschimbanga Society for Skill Development Technical Education Training and state skill development department to set up a hospitality training academy at Rajarhat to train 600 industry-ready professionals per year, most of whom he plans to employ in his chain of restaurants. The initiative is being funded by the state government.
 
 “We will take in school dropouts and people with lesser qualifications for a six-month course. We will teach them basics of cooking, sorting as well as front kitchen techniques. Then they will undergo on-job training at our restaurants. After the end of the course, we will absorb a majority of them and would ensure employment for others using our industry contacts,” said Chatterjee.
 
 The students will get stipend from the state government during the course period and during the on-job training, stipend will be provided by Speciality group. The training will be carried out at a 10,000 sqft facility in Rajarhat.
 
 
