When you meet the dancers of  , winners of  , you can’t miss out their inimitable energy. With most of them being college students, they laugh and take a jibe at each other but echo the same thoughts and principles. The 16-member team, which had participated in Vijay TV’s dance  , didn’t quite imagine that they would clinch the title. And now that they have, they are still unsure of what to do with the prize money. “Let it come first,” laughs   aka Dhina, who got the entire team together first for his college. Chennai Times speaks to the winners about their journey... 

 
 
 All of them are students of Hindustan Arts and Science College. Dhina, who is a passionate dancer, wanted to start a dance team for the college and that’s how he brought them together. “Ever since I joined college, I wanted to have a dance team that would represent the institution at several top cultural events. But I could form the team only in my final year. We started off with nine people and began participating in several cultural events. We earned a good name, too. Later, we wanted to expand the team and began hunting for dancers from the college. We became 23 people then, and eventually, now, 16 of us are together. All of us share a great bond — we know when to have fun and when to work hard,”) he says.
 
 
 
 The team wanted to be a part of the show ever since they had watched its first season. “We were doing well in the college circuit. We have won several competition and sometimes missed them by a whisker. But we wanted to get a better experience and showcase our talent on a bigger platform. In fact, it was a dream to participate in the dance show. When we had auditioned for it, we resorted to our eight-minute set — where the first six minutes will be fast paced and the last two minutes will be slow. The panel liked it and chose us. All the concepts that we chose for the show were from those who inspire us. We look up to people like Jim Carrey and Heath Ledger. We never expected to win. In fact, winning or losing didn’t matter to us. But when that moment happened, we just couldn’t process it. KOD gave us an experience for a lifetime,” smiles Dhina and the rest of the members. But it was no cakewalk for them. “The senior participants felt that the show was trying to favour the kids. But over a period of time, things changed,” he adds.
 
 
 
 The Laab Crew was mentoring under master Sheriff, who guided them until the final round. Talking about Sheriff, Sathish says, “The first team that was selected in KOD was ours. We have had a great rapport with Sheriff sir since then. We used to send him our rehearsal videos to get his feedback. He used to give us tips often and motivate us. The best part about him was that he gave us a lot of freedom. He used to encourage us and ensured that we gave the best output on stage. We were lucky to have him as our mentor.” Even though they shared a great rapport with Jeffrey and Sandy, they say that working under Sheriff master was a big learning experience. “Jeffrey anna is like the teacher who everyone likes in college. We used to get their feedback, too, after every performance. But we never wanted to change our mentor as Sheriff anna gave us the best,” adds Dhina.
 
 
 
 All of them owe their success to Bala anna, their guru and choreographer. “If not for him, we wouldn’t be sitting here and talking to you,” says Dhina, adding, “His studio was our second home. There have been days when we went there just to practice, sleep and go to college the following day. He was not just a master to us, but more like a father.” Karthik adds, “I have been dancing ever since I was a kid. I realised I am yet to learn dance only after I came to his studio. I want to dance like him.”
 
 
 
 Ask Dhina why the 16-member team didn’t have even one female contestant, and he says, “If we had one, it would have definitely added more colour to our team. But things won’t work because our practice timings were haywire.” Karthik adds, “We used to rehearse in the nights. Their parents wouldn’t allow and safety would have been another issue.”
 
 
 
 Rahul says, “My parents were not too keen in me participating. But I had to take this decision because I love dance. I didn’t take this up to show off, but I had a passion for it. Even after KOD, they told me that this won’t work out in the long run and asked me to take up something more serious.” Karthik adds, “None of us have any clarity. But we won’t leave dance for sure.” However, Ranjith adds that their parents have become curious. “They never understood why I was dancing for songs. But once they started watching KOD, they became curious and followed all the episodes.”
 
 
 
 Karthik says, “We all want to become good dancers and some even want to become choreographers. But being dancers first, we don’t know how far the industry would support people like us.” Dhina adds, “The dance scene in Bollywood has changed and how! Here, things still have to progress. Some of them are not ready to see a different kind of dance in cinema.” But the boys say they are yet to decide on their future. “As of now, we are happy that we made our parents proud. For now, let us live in the moment and then take a call on the future,” signs off Dhina.
 
 
