Ludhiana: The fire department officials remained on their toes on Friday as they received nine calls, mostly from the outskirts. Most of the incidents took place in the fields, where wheat crop and stubble were burnt. The reason was sparks in the harvester combine and transformers and since there were strong winds, the fire spread easily. As per rough estimates, over 30 acres of wheat and stubble in over 100 acres caught fire.

 Around 12.33pm, a major fire broke out in Chakk Kalan village, five kms from Mullanpur. The village sarpanch, Sukhdev Singh, told the fire officials that a short-circuit in a combine harvester sparked the blaze. “The storm spread the flames in fields, destroying wheat on 20 acres and crop residue on 80 acres.”
 
 He said residents of nearby villages helped control the blaze as fire brigade took time to reach. Seeking compensation for farmers, he said, “The crop was ready to harvest. But the fire destroyed it.”
 
 Minutes later, another incident was reported from Daddahoor village in Raikot. A fire official said, “A fire broke out in a village in Barnala and spread towards Daddahoor village around 12.50pm. It took three hours to douse the flames.” A district administration official said the flames damaged wheat crop on 13 acres and gutted wheat stubble on 40 acres.
 
 Around the same time, a fire broke out in a residential area near MBD mall on Ferozepur Road. It triggered panic among residents, but nobody was injured.
 
 Besides, fires also broke out in two houses, one in Focal Point and the other in Giaspura, around 11.30am and 2pm, respectively.
 
 Near Dandi Swami Temple, fire was reported in a transformer around 1.15pm.
 
 “We faced a tough time due to so many simultaneous calls from the periphery, as we not only lack staff but fire tenders, too,” said assistant divisional fire officer Bhupinder Singh. 
 
 2 more incidents reported
 
 Later in the day, two more such incidents were reported. The first was reported from Kheri Jhameri village where wheat crop on two acres caught fire. In Lalton Kalan, wheat crop on three acres was gutted.
 
 
