JAMSHEDPUR: The three- member Mt   expedition team, including the two young girls hailing from the hinterland, that successfully scaled the world's highest peak on May 21, faced anxious moments when their oxygen cylinders became empty close to the summit. 

 One team member, 21-year-old Poonam  , had to wait for two hours to receive a fresh oxygen cylinder in the bone-chilling weather at 25,000 ft altitude. 
 
 "It was at   point (at 25,000 ft height) when my oxygen cylinder became empty and by the time our Sherpa arranged a fresh one, I was left with no option but to keep my body warm by doing jogging and other exercises to battle the intense cold. The two long hours were the crucial period of my life filled with tense and nervous moments," recalled Poonam during the felicitation event organized by the   (TSAF) to recognize the spirited efforts of the three climbers. 
 
 Similarly,  , a seasoned trekker, too, had edgy moments when his oxygen cylinder also became empty when he was 15 minutes from the summit. 
 
 "Since our Sherpa was far away from the place where my cylinder became empty, I had to arrange the substitute from a fellow climber of the Uttrakhand police team but with mere 10% of oxygen remaining in that cylinder, I was in a quandary whether to continue my expedition or wait for the fresh one as the expedition to the peak was just about 15 minutes away," recalled Tolia, who has completed the Outdoor Educator Semester at the National Outdoor Leadership Course, USA. 
 
 The youngest member of the team, 20-year-old Swaranlata Dalai, had a different tale to share. 
 
 "Owing to a stomach pain, my guide refused to come along with me when I was returning from the summit. Hence, I had to descend alone and I was in a hurry to get down soon as I had left the essential logistics at the third camp (close to the summit)," said Swaranlata, a tribal girl. 
 
 Swaranlata added that she had to consume ice balls to quench her thirst as there was nothing to boil the ice balls all night on the return journey. 
 
 "Only after reaching the base camp, I could arrange for water," said Swaranlata, daughter of a farmer of Jogadih village in Jajpur district of Odisha. 
 
 All three climbers unequivocally praised ace mountaineer Bachendri Pal for her support and guidance in completing their mission. They also thanked Tata Steel that sponsored the expedition. 
 
 Top officials of Tata Steel sports department attended the felicitation ceremony held at JRD Tata Sports Complex. 
 
 
