NAVI MUMBAI: A brick   on the fringes of Turbhe MIDC area has become a cause of distress for the local residents who have been forced to endure the polluting fumes emanating from the newly set up structure.

 Turbhe residents have also informed local activists about the menace since   kilns are prohibited in the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation areas. 
 
 “The air pollution in Turbhe areas is already high due to various construction activities, burning of plastic waste and its proximity to the dumping ground. Hence, having unauthorized brick kilns here is further adding to the pollution,” said a local resident.
 
 A city-based activist added that under the Environment Protection Act, 1986, the civic body and the   can take action on any illegal activity, such as setting up illegal brick kilns, for causing air pollution. Hence, NMMC must take action for the sake of public health and well-being.”
 
 Additional municipal commissioner (city) Ankush Chavan said, “I will ask the local ward officials to further inquire into the brick kiln issue in Turbhe and take necessary action.”
 
 Meanwhile, residents of areas like Kharghar, Taloja, Kamothe—which fall under the jurisdiction of Panvel City Municipal Corporation —have also been complaining for long about illegal brick kilns which are affecting the air quality in their localities. “For many years, the local villagers are brazenly operating illegal brick kilns in Kharghar sectors and in   and Kamothe areas. We residents have repeatedly complained to Cidco and also PCMC about this issue, and some knee-jerk official actions had been taken. There should be a permanent solution to end the menace,” said Kharghar-based activist Ravi Srivastava.
 
 Although, last year PCMC took action against 15 illegal brick kilns in Kharghar and Taloja, many of them are back in operation, the activist said. This is especially hard on senior citizens and those who suffer from asthma and other breaking ailments.
 
 The brick kiln operators also resort to chopping of trees for procuring wood for fuel to burn bricks so that they are permanently hardened, a local resident said. Around Panvel rural areas, many tree branches have allegedly been chopped for this purpose, and hencethere is loss of greenery too.
 
 
