The wonderful thing about tiggers is, Tiggers are wonderful things,” claims Tigger the tiger, of Winnie the Pooh. 

 How many of these wonderful animals do we have now in our forests? India is planning to find out, through the All-India Tiger Estimation, this month. It’s the fourth one of its kind, and the counting has started in the 36 forest divisions of Kerala too, including in tiger reserves like Periyar and Parambikulam.
 In the past, the census people used to go out looking for pug marks to count the tigers in a forest. Now, new technology has taken over, thanks to which we know not just their numbers but far more. Kochi Times takes you on a safari, exploring how we count our big cats. Hop on!
 
 
 
 It can sound scary to the common man — walking down the forest trails of carnivores, looking for the pug marks, scratch marks and more of tigers! That’s the first stage of our  , and it’s called an eight-day-protocol. The wildlife staff collects any data to establish the presence of the big cats. But till a few years ago, all the findings were recorded manually on a data book and later, it was sent to the National Tiger Conservation Authority, a time-consuming process. That’s history now.
 
 Ecologist Ramesh Babu, who is part of the census team in Periyar Tiger Reserve, says, “This year, alongside the data book, we are also trying a new app named M-STRiPES ((Monitoring System for Tigers – Intensive Protection and Ecological Status), developed for this purpose by the authorities. It has all the features of the data book and the process is expected to be a lot quicker and error-free. In the first three days of this period, we collect indirect evidences regarding the presence of not just tigers, but also leopard, wild boar, bear, elephant and more, based on their scratch marks, prey density, scat and more. A route is also devised through the forest, using a compass. In the next few days, we mark direct sightings of these animals and vegetation of the region, over this route. All these get straightaway recorded on M-STRiPES.” The evidence collection is mostly done during the mornings, since that’s when the animals are active.
 
 
 
 
 As opposed to the pugmark counting in the past, an advanced system called camera trapping has been used to count the tigers, in the recent years. Biologist Vishnu Vijayan, who is part of the census in Parambikulam, says, “Two automatic, weather-proof cameras are set up in the animal trails, facing each other. When they sense animal movement, they take photographs from both sides of the beast. Though we can take videos also, we generally use only the photos for analysis.”
 
 The stripes on each tiger are different, like the fingerprint on human beings and they don’t change from their birth to adulthood. “Their stripes are different on either side of their bodies too. Once you have the stripes, you can identify them as separate individuals and give names or numbers. We can sometimes identify their gender also. When we have many years of data from the same place, we can even identify the territory and health issues of these animals.” Once the data is collected, a report is prepared and the final analysis is sent to the National Tiger Conservation Authority.
 Camera trappings have other benefits too. “You can make databases of tigers in an area with their prints and it can even be used in police cases, say when a tiger skin is seized from someone. You can match it with the database and find which tiger it is, and from which part of the world,” he says. Tigers differ genetically, from area to area. For example, the ones above and below Palakkad would be different, as their food, climate and the rest can be different, experts point out.
 
 
 
 Kerala has three main areas where tigers are found — Wayanad, Parambikulam and Periyar. Parambikulam is expected to have around 25 to 37 tigers, Wayanad 75 to 80 and Periyar 25 to 30. So, are their numbers going up? 
 
 “No species will have its number permanently going up. They will always be dynamic. Once it reaches a certain number, it would come down, as that would reduce the availability of prey,” Vishnu explains. Other areas like Malayattoor also have tigers, but fewer in number. According to experts, tigers can die from a variety of reasons ranging from natural death, road or rail accidents, traps and more, and they claim that poaching isn’t prevalent all that much in Kerala now.
 The incidents of tigers straying into human habitats are also occasionally reported in Kerala. Dr Sabu C Issac, veterinary doctor, explains the reason, “It can happen if it is in competition with other tigers over territory and thus, loss of habitat. It can also happen as many of these areas were their trails before. Drought is another reason.” 
 
 
 
 A good number of tigers indicate a healthy forest, says Deputy Director of Periyar Tiger Reserve, Silpa V Kumar. “Tiger is an animal that is on top of the food chain. So, if the tiger is protected, it would mean that many species of a forest is conserved. The presence of tiger can keep other species also healthy, as they are there only present in forests with enough herbivorous animals, which, in turn, will be present only if there are the plant species that support them. Plants can thrive only if there is a good climate, healthy soil.”
 
