CHANDIGARH: Mathematics is one subject that has been a nightmare for most of the students in the past. Even now, it has been termed as the most dreaded subject by the students of   (CBSE) and   (CISCE). While students under CISCE were relieved of the stress on Tuesday after taking their exam, which was touted to be lengthy but well-balanced, CBSE students still have to bear the burden as their Mathematics paper is slated to be held on March 28.

 The Class X lot under CBSE is overstressed as the entire syllabus has been included in the exams for the first time. Earlier, CBSE conducted exam on semester patternunder Continuous and Comprehensive Evaluation (CCE).
 
 
  
 
 The students are worried and are constantly consulting their Mathematics teachers, said head of a school.
 
 They are suggesting them to study while listening to mild music to remain focused. “It is necessary to have a distraction free environment to keep the mind focused and relaxed. Studying with light music can help create a soothing atmosphere and stimulate the flow of information,” said Leena Sharma, mathematics teacher of Dikshant International School, Zirakpur.
 
 “Mathematics is a subject which can bring chills to any student. It is important to stay calm and be self-confident. While studying, formulate notes from chapters that are most difficult. Solve at least one sample paper each day and review the errors. Take frequent breaks to avoid straining. Sleep for adequate time, a day before the exam. Eat light breakfast before going for the examination,” she added. Do not try to grasp anything new just before the exam shared Nidhi Sharma, Maths teacher at Brilliance World School, Panchkula.
 
 “Students must segregate the syllabus in such a way so as to practice an elaborate and a brief topic alternately. They should not make erratic attempts of learning several topics in one go. Revise all formulae before starting the revision of any chapter. Avoid overthinking about any subject and take care of physical and mental health. Repeat the NCERT exercises without any help,” she said.
 
 The key to success lies in learning basic fundamentals and concepts, said Nidhi, Mathematics teacher from AKSIPS, Sector 41. “Familiarize yourself with the formulae. Do not try to learn a list of formulae at once. Memorizing formulas and equations merely doesn’t serve the purpose. The best way to learn them is by applying them in questions.”
 
 She also told about chapters which should be given maximum importance. “Algebra carries 20 marks. The chapter of linear equations is in two variables. Students should ensure whether the equation is consistent or inconsistent before solving. Similarly, in Quadratics before solving, identifying the nature of the roots is important and it can be solved either by factorization method or by quadratic. Arithmetic progression chapter is also significant,” she said.
 
 The CISCE students were relieved after mathematics paper which was conducted on Tuesday. Aryaman Sigha, a Class X student of   termed the paper as lengthy but easy-scoring. “It was lengthy but a well-prepared student can easily score 100. Only some choice-based questions required thinking but others were basic and similar to previous pattern.”
 
 Teachers too termed it a well-balanced paper. “It was a balanced paper and the difficulty level was average. There was no hue and cry and the students were happy,” said Rajni Rana, Mathematics teacher, St Xavier’s School, Sector 44 Chandigarh.
 
