PATNA: The residents of state capital had some respite from prevailing hot weather conditions on Wednesday afternoon as thundersquall and light showers lashed the city for around two hours.

 Residents can expect such ‘thundery’ weather over the next few days as well, as the meteorological department has predicted isolated   with precipitation and even hailstorm in the region over the next 4-5 days.
 
  ( ), in its weather bulletin stated that northeastern states and adjoining eastern India are likely to experience fairly widespread precipitation during the next 4-5 days.
 
 The weather bulletin further forecast isolated thundersquall on Thursday over northeastern states and adjoining eastern India during the next 48 hours with possibility of hailstorm over Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur and Mizoram.
 
 On Wednesday, several towns in central and south  , including Patna, Gaya and Chhapra, witnessed loud peals of thunder with frequent lightning flashes along with moderate to heavy rain between 4pm and 7pm. Gusty winds were also blowing with maximum wind speed of 29 to 74 kmph during the same time. 
 
 The weather disturbances have been attributed to a number of weather systems in the region. As per the weather bulletin of IMD, three cyclonic circulations are situated in and around the region. The nearest cyclonic circulation was prevailing over east Uttar Pradesh and adjoining Bihar. Another cyclonic circulation was prevailing over southwest Uttar Pradesh and neighbouring areas. A third cyclonic circulation was also prevailing over northern parts of Bangladesh and neighbouring areas.
 
 Private weather forecasting agency   stated that a trough line was also extending from the cyclonic circulation over north Uttar Pradesh up to Assam. It further stated that another trough line also stretched between the cyclonic circulation over north Uttar Pradesh to another situated over east Uttar Pradesh and adjoining Bihar. As per meteorology, a trough line is an elongated low-pressure area and rainfall hinges along it. The weather agency further stated that a few districts, including Bhagalpur and Forbesganj, are expected to witness showers over the next 24 hours.
 
 Alert for thundershowers and squalls notwithstanding, the IMD has predicted rise in day temperatures by 2 to 3 degrees Celsius over major parts of the country from Thursday. The maximum temperature in Patna on Tuesday was recorded at 33 degrees C, which was four notches lower than the corresponding normal.
 
 
