Tuticorin: A year after the tragic boat accident, that claimed 10 lives, off Manapad coastal village in Tuticorin district, fishermen of the village continue to offer illegal boat rides to tourists. On Saturday, police and government officials, who had come to for the three-day adventure sports festival that was organised by the Tuticorin district administration, were mute spectators to the illegal rides. Sadly, among those who enjoyed the rides were government officials with their families.

 “We are upset that our beautiful village is now only identified with the tragic accident. But to this day tourists coming here are curious to know how and where the accident took place,” lamented I Jackson, 35, a fisherman of Manapad. 
 
 But behind him were a few fishermen offering rides illegal rides in their fibre fishing boats. In one of the boats there were at least 15 persons including women and children and a couple of fishermen. As the family was getting off the boat, the fisherman told the family to come anytime for a ride. When the journalist of this paper, approached the fishermen, a man who got off the boat hurriedly interrupted and said that rides is not offered there. “Rides here are illegal. Hope you are aware of the accident that took place last year,” he said. When asked how he got the ride, a fisherman said that he was an official in the panchayat union office. 
 
 The man went on to say that they did not go to the sea, but were offered a few rounds within the backwaters, where the fishing boat took them till the place where the river flows into the Bay of Bengal. This was happening in the presence of dozens of police and coastal security group personnel and revenue officials who were there to ensure safety of tourists who had come for the three-day adventure sports festival. 
 
 While tourists who enjoy the ride are aware of the accident, they are unable to resist the short rides that are offered at an affordable price. However, fishermen blame tourists of tempting them by offering them money even for a short ride. Superintendent of police of Tuticorin district P Mahendran could not be reached despite repeated attempts.
 
 District collector N Venkatesh said that last year the victims got killed in the boat accident at Manapad, despite shallow waters, as they got caught in the fishing nets. “Since then boating is not allowed for tourists. Action will be taken against the officials who went on a ride with their families. Steps will be taken to put an end to boating for tourists at Manapad,” he added. 
 
 
