CHANDIGARH: A district consumer disputes redressal forum here directed The   to pay Rs 15,000 for rejecting a bona fide claim amounting to Rs 2.86 lakh to a resident of Sector 29.

 The complainant, R S  , procured   under which, besides him, his wife and son were also insured. As far as the story goes, the complainant’s wife ( ) fell ill and was taken to a hospital in Phase-5, Mohali on September 12, 2014. After a check-up, she was found suffering from severe stomach pain, mild ascities and ovarititis. She was given chemotherapy on six occasions and was discharged from the hospital on January 27, 2015.
 Following this, when the complainant asked the company to bear the medical expenses, Raksha TPA rejected his claim of Rs 2.86 on March 19, 2016 on the ground of preexisting disease. The complainant submitted that his wife was medically examined before the policy was issued to them.
 
 The insurers in a reply said that while processing the claim of the complainant, it was observed that the wife of the complainant was ailing from a disease chronic in nature. “The claim was not payable as per the terms and conditions of the policy and thus, it was rightly rejected,” the insurers said.
 
 The forum after hearing both the sides held that the particular disease came to the knowledge of the complainant first time when she complained about a severe stomach pain on September 12, 2014 and therefore there wasn’t any question of intentional or willful concealment of any fact.
 
 “The insurers have repudiated a bona-fide claim of the complainant by raising frivolous and illogical conclusion without any substantial evidence or record in respect thereof and as such, suffers from deficiency in service on their part,” the forum concluded.
 
 “Therefore, the insurers are directed to pay to the complainant an amount of Rs 2.86 lakh at 9% per annum interest from the date of repudiation till realisation, along with compensatory cost of Rs 10,000 and litigation cost of Rs 5,000,” the forum said.
 
