AHEMDABAD: Pilgrims from across Gujarat usually wait for the   shrine to open after the six-month winter break and flock to the snow clad mountains to offer their obeisance and prayers. 

 Despite the recent spell of snowfall at Kedarnath shrine in  , estimates by tour operators and travel agents from Ahmedabad indicate that tour bookings for ‘Char dham yatra’ (visiting four most sacred shrines) have shot up by at least 20% this year. 
 
 “There is a certain curiosity factor that works among pilgrims. In the past two years, Uttarakhand has witnessed severe destruction owing to adverse weather conditions. Despite roads being washed out, the temple remained intact and that not just triggers curiosity, but restores the faith of pilgrims who choose to visit the shrine to offer their prayers,” said Manish Sharma, managing director, Akshar Travels.
 
 Chatur Patel, 59, who recently completed the yatra said, “My wife and I had been planning to take the Char dham yatra for the past 2-3 months. We were not worried about the calamity. With technology these days, we are well equipped with live weather forecasts and we were determined to take the yatra. It was a mesmerizing experience indeed.”
 
 Tour operators also indicated that the recent laser show organized near the shrine was an attraction for several pilgrims. “The recently organized laser show along with the improvement in infrastructure and facilities have encouraged tourists and pilgrims to go to the shrine. The frequency of the helicopter ferry service has also increased,” said Anuj Pathak, secretary, Travel Agents’ and Tour Operators’ Association of Gujarat (TAG).
 
 Ramesh Patel, a resident of  , recently completed the yatra with his wife and a group of 20 other friends and relatives. 
 
 “The road conditions were good and the management of disaster response forces along the highways was excellent, they guided the vehicles about the road and weather condition from time to time, making the trip a joyride,” he said.
 
 
