NEW DELHI: Online scammers have devised a new way to access sensitive information, such as social media login details and bank account passwords, by sending a link mirroring an official website used by their targets. As soon as information is entered on the fake webpage, the criminals access it and defraud the users.

  
 A businessman from Mayur Vihar in east Delhi became the latest victim of “Tabnapping” where one of the gang members contacted him through Facebook posing as a Brazilian businesswoman working with a major natural gas company in United Kingdom.
 
 The victim told police that he got a friend request from the woman, Stephenie Anderson. The two started to chat on WhatsApp. Later, she talked about starting a business with him and promised to invest 2.7 million US dollars in the project. She later showed him a receipt claiming to have sent 700,000 dollars.
 
 “She said she was sending some documents that need to be submitted in Reserve Bank of India to safeguard her investment of 700,000 US dollars. She gave me the number of another person, David Mark, who would be bringing the parcel and asked me to pay him the transaction fee on the money transferred from UK,” the victim said in his complaint.
 
 The victim gave his email ID to a person who introduced himself as a senior manager from RBI. Subsequently, he got a link of a website designed similar to the RBI website. The man was provided a code and login ID to submit his account details in it. He was promised that investment amounting to Rs 4 crore would be transferred into his account.
 
 After the victim had transferred the transaction fee of Rs 6 lakh, the webpage stopped working at 80% when the Rs 4 crore was being transferred into his account. The Facebook profile of the woman has since been deleted and her numbers have become unavailable. The webpages sent to the businessman also became defunct.
 
 Cybersecurity experts said that Tabnapping, a combination of ‘tab’ and ‘kidnapping’, has become a prominent device in stealing information as more people are using anti-malware systems to stop bugs from entering their computers. Police said that they are probing the use of   in other data theft complaints lodged with them.
 
 
