BENGALURU: Returning to the city 10 days after his strongly worded New Year Eve message to the party to buckle up or face his wrath,   late on Tuesday evening told legislators and assembly segment in-charge leaders: “You implement the 19-point agenda given, leave the winning to me.”

 While sources said Shah took to task a few party MLAs for not implementing his instructions of reaching out to booth-level workers, the party president also managed to secure the confidence of party leaders while explaining his 19-point agenda for the Karnataka election. The agenda, given to all assembly segment pramukhs, is to be put in place to strengthen the cadre.
 
 In the state for less than 48 hours, in which he has a packed schedule of whipping the state   leadership into shape, attend a workers’ rally and visit a few mutts for “blessings” for the elections, Shah got off to a delayed but hectic start.
 
 Notwithstanding the intrusion of a snake into the resort, which is being dubbed inauspicious, Shah is said to have kept his talk brief and to the point.
 
 “His talk was crisp and direct, cutting down ideas given by leaders. A couple of leaders like Kote Shivanna and   even suggested a few ideas. But he told them: Nothing doing. Apko 19-point agenda diya hai, usko implement karo bakhi mujhpe chod do. (You have been given a 19 point agenda, implement them and leave the rest to me),” said a party worker.
 
 Shah reportedly showed his prowess and cross-verified all points on the agenda given to the state unit on his last visit. “This meeting was a planned conclave, to cross-verify whether his instructions of reaching out to booth-level workers, disseminating instructions, bringing together influential personnel and looking at whether there have been any additions or deletions to the voters’ list, were carried out. The aim was to find out if leaders and legislators were working,” said a party worker.
 
 An MLA said Shah was also preparing a “hit list” of who is not bankable and does not deserve an assembly ticket. A few legislators said Shah was quite happy with the work put in to implement his agenda given nine days ago. Split into North Karnataka and South Karnataka legislators, Shah accorded his time equally to both groups, spending an hour and 40 minutes in all.
 
 The meeting was held in the absence of BJP state president B S Yeddyurappa, who was with the   in Molkalmuru, Challakere and Chitradurga. While speculation was rife that Yeddyurappa was kept away to give the legislators a chance to express their concerns, a BJP spokesperson said it was to prepare the ground for Wednesday’s rally at Holalkere, where Shah will be present.
 
 
