NAGPUR: Despite demand of public representatives to connect Sitabuldi with Wadi along   Road, Mahametro has decided to go ahead with its original plan of connecting   with   on Hingna road. Guardian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule, Ramtek MP Krupal Tumane, Hingna MLA Sameer Meghe and Nagpur West MLA Sudhakar Deshmukh had raised this demand during the presentation on detailed project report (DPR) of Phase II of Nagpur Metro.

 Brijesh Dixit, managing director of Mahametro, told TOI Amravati Road option had almost been ruled out. “While we will consider the suggestion, there are several problems in connecting Variety Square with Wadi. The first is that this corridor will run parallel to Rani Jhansi Square to Hingna stretch for a long distance. Metro corridors are never so close,” he said.
 
 “Secondly, it is difficult to connect Wadi to Sitabuldi line with the Metro network being developed now. The corridor takes a sharp turn in Sitabuldi and it is not technically possible. It will entail acquisition of huge amount of private land in prime commercial area of the city,” Dixit added.
 
 The daily ridership of Wasudeo Nagar-Dattawadi spur is expected to be 45,000 in 2041. According to Dixit, this is okay for a 6 km long corridor. “It is a spur and not the main line. So the figure is okay,” he said.
 
 Initially, Mahametro had planned to connect Wasudeo Nagar with Ordnance Factory gate. The corridor was to pass through Ordnance Factory colony and a station was to be constructed in colony area. However, OF authorities objected to laying of Metro track within their premises, so the agency has decided to connect Wasudeo Nagar with Dattawadi passing through Hingna MIDC.
 
 Some public representatives had demanded that the Metro track be extended upto Ordnance Factory gate from Dattawadi. On this, Dixit said, “Central government had asked us to limit the length of Phase II to 45 km. It is already 48 km long and further extensions are not possible. Wadi will have to wait until Phase III.”
 
 “We will provide huge parking space at Dattawadi Metro station so that residents of Wadi and Ordnance Factory can park their vehicles and take Metro to the city,” the MD said.
 
 
