Cleared

 Chennai: Against the backdrop of Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah's assertion that his government would challenge the Supreme Court verdict directing the Union government to constitute Cauvery management board within six weeks to implement the tribunal award, Tamil Nadu government convened a meeting of 30 political parties and 14 farmers’ associations/representatives in Chennai on Thursday. The future course of action, either to file a review petition against reduction of share or exert pressure on the Centre to set up board or both, will be discussed at the meeting. The main opposition party, DMK,will participate.
 
 On the eve of the high-profile event, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami held a meeting of ministers and officials at the secretariat. “We convened the meeting with an open-mind. The state will proceed on the outcome of the meet,” said a senior minister. A section in the government, well-versed with the developments, felt it would be prudent to await the Centre's decision on constitution of the board given the Supreme Court’s verdict. The court fixed a deadline of six weeks to the Centre to frame a ‘scheme’ so that the authorities can see that the decision of the court, which had modified the final award of the tribunal, was being implemented smoothly.
 
 The last such meeting took place in April 2007, under the then chief minister M Karunanidhi, that decided to file a review petition to seek suitable clarifications and guidance in the February 5 award of the tribunal. The final award of the tribunal reduced the state’s share to 192tmcft from 205tmcft granted in the 1991 interim award. “I am afraid there would be a delay in setting up the board by the Centre, since BJP will suffer a setback in Karnataka in the upcoming assembly polls. There is no other way, TN will have to file a review petition. Karnataka having four reservoirs across Cauvery could have supplied for Bengaluru city, why cut down Tamil Nadu’s share?” asked senior DMK leader S Duraimurugan. 
 
 While the tribunal did not consider availability of ground water for apportioning water between the states, the AIADMK government failed to argue and lost 10tmcft of groundwater to Karnataka due to this, Duraimurugan alleged. Cauvery delta farmers’ welfare association general secretary S Ranganathan, the original petitioner of Cauvery case in 1971, said the board would have to become functional from June this year, when kuruvai season begins.
 
 EOM
 
 
