HYDERABAD: Coming close on the heels of   sex scandal, the incident in the   involving alleged caste and gender discrimination and sexual overtures by a senior scientist-guide has eroded confidence of students and young researchers in the country’s premier nutrition research body. The sex scam has also shaken the conscience of the research fraternity in NIN and other scientific institutions that dot Hyderabad.

 
  
 
 The accused identified as Dr K  , a Grade E scientist in the NIN’s food chemistry division, was suspended a few days ago after a four-member team found prima facie case against him. Since he is a senior scientist, the NIN director has reportedly sought the approval of the ICMR of which NIN is a constituent body.
 
 NIN director Dr R Hemalatha confirmed the scientist has been placed under suspension on the charge of sexual overtures and obscenity.
 
 Sources said the victim is a Dalit and hails from a poor family from a northern state. She secured MSc (nutrition) seat in NIN on merit. The MSc (nutrition) course offered by NIN is one of the most sought-after postgraduate degrees in the country. The girl was attached to Bhaskarachary for dissertation, which is mandatory in the final year.
 
 Sources said the scientist-guide sent obscene messages on WhatsApp to the girl. The girl, who had been silently bearing the sexual advances of the scientist, finally decided to lodge a complaint with the NIN director on May 10. Sources said scientist was pardoned twice but continued with the obscene messages. She presented screenshots of the messages to support her complaint.
 
 The   (CASH) took up the case. One of the four members belongs to a non-governmental organisation. Bhaskarachary, who holds a Masters in life sciences and a doctorate in biochemistry, is a specialist in generation of databases for nutrients, non-nutrients, anti-nutrients and contaminants and dietetics. He is also working on bioactive phytochemicals in Indian foods.
 
 As a recognised PhD supervisor in nutrition and biochemistry, he guides students in NIN. He is also a guest faculty and resource person in   and   and PhD examiner for various universities in India and Curtin University of Technology, Perth, Australia, says his profile on NIN website.
 
