NOIDA: With the second visit of the PM and the CM likely within 18 days, officials are preparing for the arrival of both the dignitaries for the inauguration of the   (NYF).

 While official sources said that the visit of the CM   is "almost confirmed," a nod from the PM's office is awaited.
 
 The NYF is going to be held in GBU from January 12-16. 
 
 A meeting of senior officials of different departments of the district administration, officials from the  , an autonomous organisation under central   which organises the NYF and additional chief secretary, Sports and Youth Welfare, UP was held at the  , the chosen venue for NYF on Saturday.
 
 The timing of the inaugural addresses of the PM and the CM, their landing at the helipads, etc was discussed in the meeting.
 
 “So far, the CM’s visit seems to be almost confirmed. A discussion took place about the duration of their inaugural addresses and the landings of their choppers at the helipads,” said a source present in Saturday’s meeting which continued for about three hours. If the CM visits Noida again, it will re-affirm that Noida jinx is merely a myth.
 
 Another official said that the CM has given given a verbal confirmation for his presence. 
 
 The CM had earlier joined the Prime Minister for the inauguration of the 12.64-km Kalkaji Mandir-Botanical Garden section of Delhi Metro’s Phase III’s Magenta Line from Botanical FGarden on December, beating the myth of the ‘Noida Jinx’, which has kept several previous CM’s away from the city.
 
 A statement from the DM office said that there was a major possibility of VVIPs arriving on the inauguration of the NYF.
 
 DM BN Singh however said that the administration was waiting for a detailed schedule and an official confirmation from the PM and the CM office. “The meeting held on Saturday was a preparatory meeting headed by the additional chief secretary Sports and Youth Welfare Mohd. Iftikharuddin,” he added.
 
 ARTO   said that the officials were directed to gear up for the event which is an annual event organised by the central Sports and Youth Welfare ministry.
 
 The arrangements made for the stay and dining facility of the around 5000 youths who will participate in the NYF were also discussed at length.
 
 Around 3000 youths from across the country and 2000 from UP, will participate in the National Youth Festival being organised in GBU this year.
 
 Along with the DM, the SSP, chief medical officer, ARTOs, officials of the telecommunication, electricity, PWD department, etc were present.
 
