PATNA: With the   on Thursday allowing Bihar to participate in Ranji Trophy and other national-level   championships under the aegis of   (BCA) after a gap of 17 years, people from all sections of society, especially cricket lovers, have hailed the decision.

 A Supreme Court bench headed by Chief Justice Dipak Misra made it clear on Thursday that Bihar, which had not been allowed to participate in national-level cricket tournaments, must play cricket. The bench, also comprising Justices A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud, said BCA, which has been elected by virtue of an apex court order, shall be in-charge of the game in the state. “This order has been passed keeping in view the cause of cricket,” the court said, adding it will not create any equity in favour of the BCA.
 
 Welcoming the order, state art, culture and youth affairs minister Krishna Kumar Rishi said, “We are happy for the budding cricketers of Bihar.”
 
 Ex-cricketer and leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav also expressed his happiness over the SC decision. “Great! Our struggle for playing in Ranji trophy finally paying off. Congratulations to all (sic)!” he tweeted.
 
 Secretary of Cricket Association of Bihar Aditya Verma too welcomed the decision, saying Thursday was a golden day in the history of Bihar. Verma, the petitioner in the case, said they will now strive to revive cricket in Bihar which has the potential of producing star cricketers. Verma added chief minister Nitish Kumar was also keen to revive sports culture in the state.
 
 Secretary of   (PDCA) Ajay Narayan Sharma said the decision would bring revolutionary change in the field of sports in Bihar. “Now, the state government should provide grounds to the cricketers to play the game. Many grounds have been converted into parks. If the trend continues, the youngsters will be spotted at tea stalls instead of playgrounds,” he said.
 
 Sharma said PDCA has 80 teams with 1,600 registered players. “The number of original players is at least hundred times the registered ones and this decision has brought hope for all,” he added.
 
 President of Bihar Players’ Association Mrityunjay Tiwari said the apex court’s decision has ended 17-year exile for cricket in Bihar. “I am sure players from the state will now make it to the Indian cricket team,” he added.
 
 
