VADODARA: A slew of new facilities for passengers and visitors were launched at the new integrated terminal building of Vadodara airport on Saturday.

 Nearly two months after a restaurant facility was started at the security hold area of the new airport terminal, a second restaurant facility was inaugurated at the visitors area. Also, tactile paving facility to guide blind passengers and visitors coming at the airport was commissioned while the 108 emergency ambulance will remain stationed to assist in any medical emergency at the airport from now onwards. 
 
 “Previously, the restaurant facility was started at the security hold area where passengers who were waiting in the boarding area could grab a meal before catching their flight,” said Vadodara airport director Charan Singh. 
 
 “The new restaurant facility will act as a common facility both for arrival, departure passengers and visitors who come to see off their relatives,” said Singh, who inaugurated the facility in the presence of other dignitaries. 
 
  and Spa promoted by Anand-based Elecon   will run the new restaurant facility at the airport. 
 
 In line with a decision taken by   (AAI) chairman Guruprasad Mohapatra to install tactile paving or guiding tiles to guide or warn the blind passengers or visitors at all the airports in the country, the facility has been commissioned at Vadodara airport. 
 
 “The tactile paving starts from the departure side of the building and it will help the blind passengers to proceed till the helpdesk from where they will be able get assistance from a person deputed at the counter to guide them,” said Singh. 
 
 The 108 ambulance will remain stationed at the airport during the operational hours between 6am and 10pm. 
 
 “This will help us in attending to any medical emergency. Plus, we will shortly launch a medical counter which will be equipped with a doctor and supporting staff so that if there is any passenger in need of first aid, the first aid is provided on the spot and if the passenger is critical, he or she can be shifted to hospital with the help of the ambulance,” he said. 
 
 
