BHOPAL:   is a well to do businessman in  . In June last year, he formed an Anand Club and started distributing toys to underprivileged kids in his city and adjoining villages.

 
 Nigam and his team not only visited slums and schools of Gwalior, but also went to jail and hospitals to distribute toys to children of women prisoners and patients. In March this year, officials of   asked him to send details of work done and by team after getting itcertified by the district collector.
 
 Similarly,   a principal scientist from   formed an Anand Club in July last and came up with out- ofthe- box ideas of spreading happiness like getting the bathroom singers of his locality on a stage and giving them a platform to sing.
 
 His other idea of spreading happiness is to visit government hospitals on festivals and meet patients who are left alone due to illness.
 
 Nigam and Dabi are not the only ones. There are at least 2,000 more educated and well-to-do people who are working in some 400 Anand Clubs in  . On June 14 last year MP state happiness department— the only one of its kind in the country —came out with a concept of Anand Clubs, wherein people can register themselves with happiness department and start working to spread happiness. One can form a club by filling necessary detailson the department’s website. It is a voluntary activity and nothing is paid from the government’s side.
 
 The members of the Anand Clubs were in Bhopal for a three-day workshop to learn techniques to listen their inner voice. Members shared their unique ideas of spreading happiness . Some of the them run a ‘Chappal Bank’, which is to distribute slippers to poor. Another group distributes leftover food of parties. Hemant Nigam said “I was looking forward to open an NGO to work for those in need when I came to know about the Anand Club. I registered a club and started working. Gwalior ADM, Shivraj Singh Verma, who is the nodal officer of Happiness Department in the city, extended his support. Distributing toys has become a passion for me and my team now. We distribute soft toys on weekends. It gives me immense satisfaction. ”, he added. Shailendra Singh Dabi said talking to security guard and a sanitary worker and counselling their children also spreads happiness. Small gestures make people happy. “We try to do the same in our own way in our city.”
 
