NOIDA: For those outside, it’s a battle to get their own flats; but for those residing inside, it is a story of day-to-day survival against odds. 

 Even as   scrambles to get investors on board to infuse funds into its debt-ridden Wish Town housing project in Sector 128, for the handful who have been residing there for the past four years, it is a story of everyday struggle to deal with practical problems.
 
 Faulty internal pipe work has resulted in visible seepage on both the interior and exterior walls of the residential towers. At the entrance of Club Eighteen, the community centre for the residents of   tower, a safety net has been hung at the foyer to catch any debris falling from the top floors.
 
 “A strong breeze and it is quite common for concrete to peel off and drop straight to the ground,” said   Sachchan, a resident of Klassic’s Tower B. Rupali was among the first to move into Jaypee’s Klassic Tower B four years ago.
 
 While residents do have access to a small store in the Kosmos complex, for essentials, meticulous planning is needed to keep their homes well-supplied with grocery, medicines and edibles. “It is like managing an office. We plan the needs of each day, ahead; make a proper list on a white board, click picture of the list and carry it while going to work. For our kids, we have got a GPS tracker, so we know where they are in the complex and when they are going down to play,” said Jyoti Thakur, a resident of Klassic’s Block A.
 
 “The biggest challenge the residents are facing at the moment is that of power back-up. The lifts simply stop when there is a power supply issue and it is not uncommon for many residents to walk up 14 or 15 floors to their flats because sometimes the lifts just remain non-functional for hours together,” said  , a resident of Klassic’s Tower B.
 
 “While we are paying maintenance fee, we expect proper upkeep. Streetlights and a decent supply store are needed. The swimming pool and the playground are under-construction, so for those of us who have moved in some years ago, it is a state of compromised living,” said Meena Bhatt, another Klassic’s Tower B resident.
 
 At various parts of Klassic Tower-B, apartments are being remodelled by those who have got their keys recently.
 
 “Each one is spending anything between Rs 5 lakh and Rs 8 lakh to make repairs and develop the apartments to their own tastes. Concrete damage in the interiors is visible even now before people have moved into some flats,” said Archana Singh.
 
 Despite repeated attempts, Jaypee officials could not be contacted.
 
 
