NEW DELHI: The government rolled out its plan on Tuesday to grant more   to better performing central, state and private universities, with the UGC giving 60 institutions special status that will allow them to start new  , offer competitive salaries and set up off-campus centres without approvals.

 Two central universities— Jawaharlal Nehru University and University of Hyderabad — are in the top category along with state universities such as Jadavpur University, Kolkata, Savitribai Phule Pune University, and Nalsar University of Law, Telangana, under the “graded autonomy” scheme. Private varsities in the list include O P Jindal Global University, Sonipat, and Pandit Deen Dayal Petroleum University, Gujarat. Among category 1 deemed to be universities, Maharashtra has the highest number of varsities. HRD minister Prakash Javadekar said the varsities remain in the ambit of the UGC, but can start new courses, off-campus centres, skill development courses, research parks and other new academic programmes. They will also be able to hire foreign faculty, enrol foreign students, provide incentive-based emoluments to faculty, enter into academic collaborations and run distance learning programmes.
 
 As per UGC regulations on “graded autonomy”, five central universities, 21 state universities and 26 private universities have been given this status. Eight colleges have also been given autonomous status under the autonomous colleges regulation. 
 
 Autonomous universities with an NAAC score of 3.26 and above may start a new course or department without UGC’s approval, provided no demand for funds from the government is made. UGC, “recognising (that) autonomy is pivotal to promoting and institutionalising excellence in higher education”, notified the regulatory framework in February 2018 to facilitate better performing institutions to improve standards.
 
 “The government is taking steps towards granting autonomy to institutions performing well. It started with the passing of the IIM bill granting complete autonomy to B-schools,” said Javadekar.
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
