It was only two years ago that band ‘Attva’ was formed by four musicians from different cities. Unlike other bands, this one is an amalgamation of musicians from Chennai, Kolkata and New Delhi. Alvin Presley from Chennai is the frontman and guitarist, Baidurjya Banerjee from Kolkata is the lead guitarist, Rudra Roy, also from Kolkata, is the drummer, and Shourish Biswas from New Delhi is the bass guitarist.

 Alvin says, “The band existed even before 2016, but the current members joined only in 2016. They are all my college juniors and we knew each other for a long time. So after they passed out, we decided to form our band, and eventually, began composing our own songs.” 
 
 Since all of them are from different regions, everyone has their own unique style and musical influences that they follow. While Rudra has progressive rock influence, Shourish is influenced by hard rock, Baidurjya is influenced by blues and Alvin is more into progressive rock, neo soul and Indian classical. Does having different musical influences create clashes among these musicians? “Clashes of ideas were there initially. But they have slowly faded away as the more we started being around each other and understanding others’  , the differences reduced. It has reached to a point where we all compose in separate rooms in our own way, and ultimately, come together to jam. So, we all will be working on a particular idea, and in the end, these ideas are amalgamated into one element to form beautiful piece of music,” says Alvin.
 
 The band members have composed 13 originals, two in Hindi and the rest in English. Their songs are usually emotion-driven. What is common is that they are influenced by international bands like Porcupine Tree, The Winery Dogs and Plini. Last month, they headlined two universities in pro-show acts, at IIT Madras and International Maritime Academy.
 
 While Alvin and Rudra have day jobs, the other two are full-time musicians. They all jam together at Alvin’s home- cum-studio. Now, they are looking forward to the release of their extended play record called Aeon, in June. “It is like a mini album with four songs. We started working on it last year, in November. We already have shows coming up in different cities, and post the Aeon launch, we are also looking forward to an all-India tour,” signs off Alvin.
 
 — Purnima.Sah@timesgroup.com
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
