Chandigarh: Two 15 year-old girls from Patiala were brought to the Government Medical College and Hospital , Chandigarh (GMCH) on Sunday after they developed complications soon after being vaccinated against measles and rubella.

 While one of them is suspected to have come down with encephalitis –inflammation of the brain, encephalitis has been ruled out in the other girl.
 
 “We cannot rule out the correlation of encephalitis with the vaccination or establish it as the investigations are on,” said Dr G B Singh, state immunization officer, Punjab. He said, “I got the information from our officials about encephalitis and it will take some time to get confirmatory reports.”
 
 Meanwhile, the doctor attending to the patients in the GMCH said, “One of the girls had brain tuberculosis and the other had hysteria.”
 
 Recently, death of six-year-old Gurnoor Kaur in Bathinda after administration of the   had stirred panic. However, the Punjab health department could not ascertain the cause of her death as the autopsy was not conducted.
 
 The Union government had started nationwide MR vaccination campaign since February under which the children aged between nine months and 15 years are being vaccinated. Punjab shall vaccinate some 73 lakh children during the campaign, while Haryana plans to cover 80 lakh children.
 
 The father one of the Patiala girls said there were reports of other children from the same locality coming down with loose motions and complained of fever.
 
 According to experts, the vaccination is safe, and while some immune reactions or odd effects have been reported, there is no evidence of adverse side effect on majority of those who get immunized. “When the polio campaign was started, there was a lot of hue and cry about its side effects. Similarly, there was also concern when iron tablets were given to the anaemic children. The reaction for MR this time is similar too,” said Dr Meenu Singh, paediatric department, PGIMER.
 
 “Encephalitis is very rare, but theoretically possible after MR vaccination,” said Dr Joseph Mathew, who has worked extensively on vaccinations in the paediatric department, PGIMER.
 
 Box:
 
 India accounts for over 60% of the total measles cases in the WHO South East Asia region. Of the 1,34,200 measles death globally in 2016, the WHO South East Asia Region, comprising of 11 countries, accounted for around 54,500 deaths. Of this, around 49,200 occurred in India--nearly 36% of the global deaths from measles and rubella.
 
 
