CHANDIGARH: Three stabbing cases rocked the city on Saturday, leaving three persons injured. Police claimed to have arrested six persons in two out of the three cases.

 In Sector 56, Suraj, a resident, alleged two people assaulted him with a sharp-edged weapon in the locality. In his complaint, Suraj said he was taking his pet dog for a walk when the two accused kicked his dog. 
 
 When he objected, one of the accused took out a weapon from his pocket and attacked him. Both accused fled, leaving him in a pool of blood. 
 
 He informed the police about the stabbing and a PCR (police control room) vehicle took him to Government Multi-specialty Hospital, Sector 16, for treatment. After recording his statement, Sector 39 police arrested the two accused. A court sent them in judicial custody.
 
 In the second case, Chaman Kumar, a resident of EWS Colony, Dhanas, alleged, Goldy, Raju, Amit and   assaulted him with some sharp-edged weapon in the area. Chaman Kumar alleged he had a spat with the accused on Holi on Friday as they were creating ruckus near his house. 
 
 To take revenge, all the four accused thrashed and stabbed him. Police took him to Government Multi-specialty Hospital, Sector 16, and recorded his statement. 
 
 On his complaint, an FIR (first information report) was registered at the Sarangpur police station. Later, all the four accused were arrested. A local court sent them in judicial custody.
 
 A few hours later in the same area, Ram Parkash of EWS Colony, Dhanas, was attacked by three persons with a sharp-edged weapon. In his complaint, Ram Parkash said the accused had a brawl with his younger brother four days ago. 
 
 On Saturday night, he was going to the market when all the accused identified as  , Sunil and Vishal stopped him. 
 
 "Rajan hit me with a knife on my head and abdomen, while Sunil and Vishal held my hands," Ram Parkash alleged. 
 
 All the three accused escaped. A PCR vehicle took him to Government Multi-specialty Hospital, Sector 16. Police registered a case and started investigation. No arrests have been made in the case.
 
 
