NEW DELHI: On Monday, Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) was in the news by becoming the first Indian company to breach market capitalisation (m-cap) of $100 billion. However, this is not the first or only claim to fame that the company can boast of. Here is a list of  's achievements:

 
 
 
 By definition, market capitalisation is the value of a company that is traded on the stock market, calculated by multiplying the total number of shares by the present share price. 
 
 TCS went past the $100 billion m-cap milestone after the company's scrips gained more than 4 per cent to hit an all-time of Rs 3,557. Last week, when the markets closed on Friday, the company was at the verge of the milestone as the m-cap stood at slightly above $99 billion. TCS stock had surged more than 6 per cent on Friday. The rise in the TCS scrip's fortune came after the it posted a rise of 4.5 per cent in its Q4 net profit. In the January-March quarter, the company reported a net profit of Rs 6,925 crore, up 4.57 per cent against Rs 6,622 crore posted in the same quarter last year. On top of that, the company announced a 1:1 bonus for its shareholders. 
 
 TCS is now among the world’s 100 most valued organisations and currently ranks 97th.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 TCS is the country's largest IT services company, topping rival  . In the fourth quarter of the 2017 fiscal, TCS dollar revenue increased 3.9 per cent (2% in constant currency terms) to $4.97 billion. Dollar revenue, as the term suggests, is revenue earned by Indian firms by outsourcing services in foreign countries. At a time when most IT companies are feeling the heat, TCS's performance beat the Street expectations. Speaking on TCS's innovations, the company's CEO  , in an interview to TOI said, "TCS is uniquely positioned to offer a combination of services from core tech transformation all the way to front-end digital technologies. The full spectrum of services is what is positioning us beautifully in this space."
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TCS has proved to be the flagship company for Tata Group, accounting for 85 per cent of the group's profit. The company reported a revenue growth of 8.2 per cent at Rs 32,075 crore for the three months to March. TCS's contribution to the Tata Group can be gauged from the fact that excluding IT bellweather, Tata group companies’ m-cap is down almost 6 per cent since the turn of 2018. TCS also played an instrumental role in helping Tatas enter the elite league of Rs 10 trillion market capitalisation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 With almost 4 lakh employees representing 131 nationalities, across 46 countries, TCS is India's largest private sector employer. With 35.3 per cent women employees, the company can also boast of a respectable gender ratio in its workforce.
 
 
 
 
 Founded in 1969, TCS is celebrating its golden jubilee year. However, the company has had a stable run as far as the top bosses of the company are concerned. Quite astonishingly, TCS has had only four CEOs so far, with F C Kohli, the first CEO, serving from 1969 to 1996.
 
  
  
