NEW DELHI: The tree under which you seek respite from the 40 degree Celsius sun may actually be surviving against all odds. This was demonstrated by the storm in the capital on Sunday, with the strong winds knocking down at least 255 trees across the city.

 
 What leaves them susceptible to the vagaries of nature? The answer appears simple: look anywhere in the city and you will find their roots likely choked by concrete, their trunks riddled with nails and strangled by wires. Advertisement boards continue to be hammered into trees and concrete poured around them to facilitate car parking in complete violation of Delhi high court’s 2009 order that all trees should be left 6x6 feet of ‘breathing space’ around them at the ground level.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 On Sunday, as many as 32 trees were uprooted in the storm in Lutyens’ Delhi alone. Elsewhere, Mayur Vihar, Patparganj, Laxmi Nagar, Karol Bagh, Okhla,  ,  , Dwarka and Daryaganj were majorly affected.
 
 A few days ago, when TOI visited New Friends Colony, Pamposh Enclave, Greater Kailash-I and   in south Delhi, tree activists spoke of this dismal situation. They claimed to be fighting a losing battle, with their repeated complaints to the forest department, municipal corporations or the horticulture department eliciting little response. 
 
 “We can remove nails from trees, as we did in south Delhi’s New Friends Colony last year, but for larger things such as high tension wires, street lights or concretisation around tree trunks, we can only alert the authorities,” said Verhaen Khanna, founder, New Delhi Nature Society. 
 
 The   recently reiterated that no concrete should be used in a one-metre radius around tree trunks. It also directed: “Ensure that all the signboards, names, advertisements, any kind of boards or signage, electric wires and high tension cables or otherwise are removed from the trees forthwith.” But, as green activist and advocate Aditya N Prasad, the petitioner in the NGT case, pointed out, very little has been done in this direction.
 
 The number of trees that topple over in storms should alert the civic agencies to the dangers of cement-restricted tree trunks. “Concretisation of the space around trees not only restricts water from percolating into the soil, but also constricts the root growth. This then causes the tree to tilt and fall down during heavy winds,” explained Prasad. 
 
 Padmavati Dwivedi, who conducted Delhi’s first tree census in Sarvodaya Enclave six years ago, was assured that the NGT petition and efforts of nature lovers has made some difference. 
 
 However, she still has her worries. “Some space is now being left for the trees, but not as specified by NGT. Besides, trees in so many localities are yet to be de-choked,” Dwivedi said.
 
 The 2012 Sarvodaya Enclave Census had found 394 trees suffering from lopping (tilting to one side), while 75 had been choked by tree guards or nails. In addition, 293 trees, or 41% of the colony’s trees, were found completely strangled, and only 172 had two feet of space around them. 
 
 A similar census at Gulmohar Park established that 700 of the 1,100 trees there did not have enough soil around them to be able to breathe.
 
 
