MYSURU: In a sequel to the gaffes and political statements which landed him in controversy,   national president   had to face the ire of Dalits at an interaction with the community here on Friday.

 Scheduled to be a closed door discussion, the Dalit convention was opened to the media at the last minute. However, what ensued was an “unforeseen” ruckus with Shah being the target over Union minister Anant Kumar Hegde’s statements of “changing the Constitution” and allegedly calling Dalit activists “barking dogs”.
 
 Earlier during the event, former minister and senior Dalit leader V Sreenivasa Prasad opened a Pandora’s box by asking Shah to clarify the party stand on Hegde’s statement about changing the Constitution. Dismissing Hegde as a “small-time leader”, a visibly irked Prasad said, “While PM Narendra Modi has said there will be no changes to the Constitution and it is the supreme holy book, statements by small-time leaders on changing the Constitution have caused confusion among the followers of B R Ambedkar who is like a mother to Dalits. Naturally, when our mother’s work is being questioned, it hurts us.”
 
 Shah, who appeared calm, found a new translator in Union minister H N Ananth Kumar, who replaced Dharwad MP Pralhad Joshi after the latter’s goof-up in Challakere. Kumar translated Prasad’s request into Hindi.
 
 Shah immediately rose to address the question and said: “The BJP clarifies that the party disowns Hegde’s statement and has nothing to do with it.” Applause rang out, only to be silenced by loud voices and a shouting match from the audience.
 
 Dalit activists led by Choranahalli Shivanna, not satisfied with Shah’s response, wanted Hegde to be immediately sacked.
 
 Shah realized that the situation was turning volatile, and Mysuru MP Prathap Simha intervened and tried to calm the activists, to save the party from further embarrassment. Police officers evicted Shivanna and a few others from the premises. Outside the venue, Shivanna said Hegde was guilty of calling Dalit activists “barking dogs”. “We cannot accept such a minister at the Centre and have demanded his resignation,” he said.
 
 Prasad, realizing he is likely to be singled out for providing an opportunity for a section of Dalits to raise a dissenting voice, issued a statement saying Shivanna was a Congress agent. “He is from Varuna, the constituency of Siddaramaiah. I am sure he was politically instigated by the CM to create a ruckus at a BJP Scheduled Caste morcha event. Why else would the man arrive at a BJP event?” he told reporters, adding that Shivanna was not invited to the event.
 
 PANEL WILL FILE REVIEW PLEA
 BJP national president Amit Shah, reacting to filling backlog jobs and reservation in promotions for Dalits in government jobs, said the Centre had formed a committee led by home minister Rajnath Singh, which will file a review petition before the SC.
 
 Karnataka will not goof up, says Shah
 Mysuru: “Unlike me, Karnataka voters will not commit a mistake,” BJP national president Amit Shah said here on Friday, virtually admitting to his gaffes during his earlier visits to the state.
 
 Seeking to make amends for the embarrassment he had caused the party unit in poll-bound Karnataka, Shah addressing the Navashakti convention here said, “I committed a mistake at Davanagere and my political opponents, including Rahul Gandhi and Siddaramaiah, used it to mock me. They said Shah has spoken the truth. But unlike me, people of Karnataka will not commit the mistake.” 
 
 
