Nagpur: In 1997, when   or nylon   was yet to be found in Indian markets, medical practitioner and current North Nagpur MLA Dr Milind Mane treated a young boy suffering from bilateral eye injury caused due to a kite-flying thread.

 The injury was so serious that the boy lost his complete eyesight. “During that time, nylon or Chinese manja was still not in the market and the accident had happened because of a glass-coated   manja,” says Mane.
 
 Like this, there are many cases bespeaking the danger posed by glass-coated cotton threads. Post the uproar against nylon manja, the sale of glass-coated cotton threads has witnessed a tremendous increase.
 
 While sellers are advertising it as “safe”, medical experts call it as dangerous as the nylon thread. National president of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) Dr Ravi Wankhedkar says any coated manja is dangerous. 
 
 “The powdered glass makes the cotton manja as sharp as the nylon one. Moreover the tension in the string is proportional to the height at which the kite is being flown. The amount of tension is so tremendous that a glass-coated cotton thread too can slit the neck of a rider and result in fatality,” adds Wankhedkar.
 
 He said only using a plain cotton thread for kite-flying will make the sport ‘safe’.
 
 It is a myth that only Chinese manja can cause  , says Dr Raju Wilkinson, associate professor of surgery, NKP Salve Institute of Medical Sciences. “In the last several years, most of the patients that I have treated were victims of glass-coated cotton threads,” he adds.
 
 According to Mane, any thread which is “strengthened” can lead to injuries. “The cotton threads are coated with glass powder, adhesive and other chemicals to strengthen it and make it sharp. When these manjas come in contact with the throat of a rider or even a person who is stationery, they can rupture the carotid artery leading to loss of life,” adds Mane.
 
 Dr Ashok Madan, head of ophthalmology department at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), says, “When glass is used as a coating material, it makes the thread deadly. From eye-lid injuries to slit in throats — it can lead to anything.”
 
 In December 2016, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had imposed an interim nationwide ban on use of glass-coated manjas too. However, in its July 2017’s order, the green court restricted the ban to only nylon manja. 
 
 While most of the states are taking action on the sale of nylon manja, Delhi government has imposed a complete ban on the sale, production, storage, supply, import and use of any kite-flying thread which is sharp, including the ones coated with glass. 
 
 “Kite flying shall be permissible only with a cotton thread, free from any strengthening materials,” states a notification issued by the government.
 
 The notification further states that as per the Environment Protection Act, 1986, violation of these directions can lead to punishment which includes imprisonment up to five years, fine of Rs1 lakh or both. 
 
 
