A visual treat awaited art aficionados in Thiruvananthapuram who attended  , a play combining   at Bharath Bhavan.
Through the hour-long creative collaboration, the artistes of  , a martial arts school in Tamil Nadu, and Water Carriers, a French theatre company, tried to answer the perennial question — Who are you? — through the journey of a warrior who discovers his connection with Mother Earth.
 
 Using one of the oldest martial arts of the world,  , and modern theatre, the artistes formulated a play conveying that the human body is connected with nature. 
 The show kicks off when its protagonist referred as The Man, played by  , sets out to become a great warrior. In his greedy pursuit, he meets The Master, played by French artiste  , who later teaches him to master the five elements of nature aka panchabhoothas: fire, wind, water, earth and ether that also make him fight the evils within. 
 Thierry, who is also the assistant director of Bhu, says, “The approach of the play is also a call to the society to return to the roots. We take a lot from Mother Earth, so this production is a tribute to her for safeguarding us. The play is a result of mixing martial arts, dance and theatre. It can be called an organic dance as we have maintained the purity of the kalaripayattu by taking the effort to master the art form before using it in the performance.”
 
 The idea for the show originated when the founders of the two groups — Philippe Pelen Baldini and Lakshman Gurukkal — met in 2014. Nikhil recalls, “Philippe visited our kalari institute and expressed interest to experiment a new production combining both. Thus, under the guidance of both veterans, we started to choreograph the production where a man discovers his deep union with Mother Earth aka Bhu.
 
 It took the team 16 months to frame the play. “Being a kalari performer I was also able to explore the possibilities of the martial arts on stage production,” he says.
 Meanwhile, Thierry says that the play also stresses the need to love one’s mother tongue. “Though the drama has only a few dialogues, we have upheld the importance of one’s mother tongue which is also about discovering one’s roots. When I ask ‘Who are you?’ in English, The Man replies in Kannada, which is Nikhil’s actual mother tongue. So, we have also used our real feelings and understandings,” he adds.
 
 The contemporary show’s music was composed by ottanthullal artiste   through the oldest percussion instrument of the state, mizhavu. Suresh says, “Mizhavu is again an indigenous instrument in our art form. Its sound has the power to reverberate the Earth’s spirit. Also by drumming the mizhavu, I can communicate the emotions of the artistes well to the audience.”
 
