KOLKATA: The landmark   on Sudder Street, run by a British family for three generations, has been sold to a branch of the Oberoi family.

 The boutique hotel, with its promise of colonial charm, has played host to the rich and the famous over the years, including directors Ismail Merchant and James Ivory, actor   and writers   and Gunter Grass. This was also the hotel that   and Jennifer Kendal famously chose for their honeymoon in the City of Joy.
 
 Jennifer Fowler, who inherited the hotel from her mother Violet Smith, who had in turn been handed the property by her mother, Rosie Sarkies, said she was happy to leave the hotel in the “best possible care”. But the sadness at letting a family legacy go was unmistakable.
 
  
  
 Smith lived at the hotel till her death in 2014, but Fowler found it difficult to run the business as she is settled in the UK with her family. “My mother is no more. But the hotel still reverberates with her memories and is a living, pulsating entity for me,” Fowler said.
 
 Fowler’s mother had lived at the Sudder Street address all her life, celebrating her birthdays and throwing parties at the hotel’s famous balcony in the style of British nobility. But she found it difficult to run the business when Smith passed away in 2014 at the ripe old age of 93. “I am past 70 and my husband does not keep well these days. I cannot travel back and forth so many times any more. So I thought it best to sell the business. But I could not sell it to just about anyone. There are deep emotions attached to every bit of Fairlawn. I am lucky that Diamond Oberoi, a branch of the Oberoi family that owns the Elgin chain of hotels in Darjeeling and Sikkim, agreed to buy the hotel,” said Fowler.   is a cousin of the Oberois that own the Oberoi chain, including Kolkata’s iconic Oberoi Grand.
 
 The seeds of the sale were sown years ago when Smith was alive. Oberoi was among the guests at her birthday party and Fowler had broached the idea of selling the business. Oberoi had responded enthusiastically.
 
 “We were extremely lucky to be considered by Fowler. We have bought   Hotel Pvt Ltd because it is the only hotel that bears a heritage tag. We hope we will be able to do justice to the experience called Fairlawn,” the new owner said, adding that he would soon begin its restoration that would take period hospitality to another level.
 
 An elaborate agreement was drawn up between Fowler and Oberoi to protect the existing façade of the hotel and the staff. “The handover is complete. I have sold 100% share to Diamond Oberoi. I am relieved in a big way but my heart feels heavy and my eyelids heavier. I will leave the city on Tuesday…with nothing to fall back on,” said a misty-eyed Fowler.
 
 Fowler’s lawyer, P K Jhunjhunwala, clarified that the sale was of Fairlawn Hotel Pvt Ltd and not of the premises that were owned by someone else. This was borne out by Fowler too.
 
 The Fowlers got a warm, Indian-style farewell on Monday evening as the staff members garlanded them and gave them red roses as a mark of love for their erstwhile employers. Fowler was in tears as she shook hands with each of them, assuring she had ensured their jobs would be secure under the new management. The staff also welcomed the new owners, the Oberois, immediately thereafter.
 
 
