They are to Bengali cinema what cinema is to Bengal. No wonder, after a hiatus of 14 long years, when Prosenjit Chatterjee and Rituparna Sengupta — the hit pair of 46 films — made a comeback with Praktan, the euphoria surrounding them was just the same. Ahead of the release of their much-talked about Drishtikone, we took them back to NT1 Studio in Tollygunge, which was once home to the actors. Maybe it was the location, but the actors lowered their guard and let us in on the life that was. We listened in…  There was a time when I would sit at Tarakda’s teashop right outside the studio. Most of the directors had their offices here and there would be gaps in between meetings. But I didn’t have the money to return home and get to the studio again; so I would while away my time at the teashop. Tarakda would share his food with me. He used to tell me, ‘When you become a star and buy an AC car, take me out on a ride’. When I bought a car, he was the first one I took out. Later, when I did become a hero, his boys would keep my tea ready every morning. I would also have bread and omelette at the studio canteen. Be it actors or directors, everyone would have breakfast together before heading for the day’s shoot. They used to serve food in banana leaves. There was a time when I didn’t return home for nine days straight. I used to either rest in a small makeup room or wrap myself in a shawl and sleep in my car.  The first time I came to the studio was to meet Prabhat Roy. It was for Swet Pathorer Thala. It was a great feeling seeing him at the desk, marking things with a sketch pen.  It was Swapan Saha’s Abujh Mon. Before that, we had worked in Nagpanchami, but that was a multistarrer. In Abujh Mon, Abhishek Chatterjee played my lover and the film was about us, while he essayed the role of my husband. But our jodi took off after this film.  In Nagpanchami, our first film together, we had a wedding night scene, but I didn’t know who the new girl was. Mithunda (Chakraborty), who was shooting in the same studio, saw her and said, ‘Good height, huh?’ When I came back one-and-a-half years later with Abujh Mon, I signed nine films in a day. Every director was waiting, be it Swapan Saha, Sujit Guha, Anup Sengupta or Haranath Chakraborty. I was depressed but they inspired me to come back.  There used to be massive sets; now there’s no budget for it. Goutam Bose used to create huge sets and I would ask him to adjust them in such a way that I could shoot films simultaneously. There was a time when both Tapas (Paul) and I would be referred to as the golden jubilee heroes. Despite the stardom, we would share a makeup room. But the spring bed was in a bad shape and would hurt us. We were working day and night and needed sleep. Both of us used to sleep on the bed alternately. So, one day, when Ashit babu, the proprietor, was entering the studio at 3 pm, both of us — wearing just the underthings — pretended to be asleep on a mat. He was curious and asked why we were in such a state. Then someone told him about our plight and a new bed was brought the next morning. Six of our films would be edited at the same time and we always wanted to know why some scenes were chopped off.  Ritu and I would be particularly excited to see our freshly edited songs. I remember having a tough time dubbing for a film. Instead of ‘eentkhola’, I would say, ‘itkhola’. Sushil Majumdar, who directed many Uttam Kumar films, would correct me. There was a feeling of togetherness. Another time, director Anup Sengupta met with an accident at this studio; his wife, Piya, fainted and Bonny, their son, was small. Everyone stopped their shoots and the doctor said there was just a 1% chance of his survival if he underwent a surgery. I asked the doctor to go for it.  There was a time when I used to shoot for Aparna Sen’s Paromitar Ekdin all day and then Harada’s (Haranath) Sasurbari Zindabadall night. He was paranoid as Aparna Sen had said she wouldn’t allow me to act in another film at that time. She used to call up my father and ask, ‘Mr Sengupta, Ritu ki ar kono shooting korchhe?’  Sasurbari Zindabad created history. I used to make Ritu’s schedule for the film. She would enter the set at 9 pm and would shoot till 2-3 am, but everything used to be ready. During the shoot of the song, Chokh tule dekho, I caught her sleeping. Later, she did the same thing during Praktan. She would shoot for Praktan during the day and Agnidev Chatterjee’s Goheen Hridoye by the night!  It was just for a day! But yes, going back, Rinadi (Aparna Sen) was shocked when I told her about the outdoor schedule of Sasurbari Zindabad. She almost screamed, ‘H-a-r-o?’ Later, when something went wrong and my leave was sanctioned, she said, ‘Now go for Haro’s shooting!’   The producers of Sasurbari Zindabad had declared that they would not make any film after the initial losses that they had made, but I asked them to take one more chance. We actors didn’t charge a single penny. The film was a smash hit and changed the dynamics of commercial cinema in Bengal.  When I came into this industry, he was already a star.  After Abujh Mon, Ritu did a smallscreen project called Andolon. It was a huge success and Ritu became a household name. That’s when I realised she would go far.  We don’t get big sets anymore. The last big set for us in recent times was Praktan. I used to sit in this studio and Shibu used to pick her up from her home (laughs). We now shoot in real locations, as the language of cinema is changing. But we, as actors, have not changed…   The unchangeable duo (laughs)… 
	 



  Rituparno Ghosh introduced us to a new wave of cinema. From so-called commercial cinema, we were getting into the realistic zone. The idea was to present stars in a new light.  He had faith in commercial stars. Before Rituparno Ghosh, Anjan Dutt, Mamata Shankar and the likes were called art film actors, while Ritu and I were addressed as commercial movie stars. But Rituparno had great respect for commercial cinema. He used to be present on the sets of Haranath and Swapan Saha’s films. Often he would ask, ‘Why did you dress Rituparna up like this?’ He used to say Swapanda and Haro were making films and returning the producers’ money and so filmmakers like him could work the way they wanted. Despite my successful stint in commercial cinema, I simultaneously did offbeat films like Bappaditya Bandopadhyay’s Houseful.  When I was dancing on the sets of Swapan Saha’s film, Rituparno Ghosh selected me for Dahan.  I remember I was doing Baba Keno Chakor, the most mocked film in Bengal, and Rituparno’s Utsab simultaneously. We understood that cinema was changing. When I was shooting for Haro’s Daye Daitto with Ritu and Indrani Halder, both got National Awards for Rituparno’s Dahan. It’s not that we have only done naach-gaan all our lives, but it’s a fact that Ritu used to have a rain song compulsorily in most films and I used to charge ₹1,000 more for getting wet. 
	 



  It was not a conscious decision. I see it in two ways. See, we were doing commercial films and did everything we could do. So, if we had got rejected for a few wrong choices, there wouldn’t have been a Praktan. Out of our 48 films, we had already done 46.  It was a blessing in disguise.  Again, I feel, we could have done a few more films after a new crop of directors started entering the scene around 2010, but I want to take it slow from 48 to 50.  After Praktan’s success, we couldn’t have done just another film. The most important reason for taking up this film was Kaushikda. We had not worked with him before and his films have a certain sensibility. Also, his films are spoken about nationally and internationally. Since his subjects are unique, we thought he would be able to handle us well. We can no longer do mushy love stories. So, when he approached us with a layered love story, we took it up.  If Kaushik Ganguly calls up and says, ‘I have a subject. If you do it, I will make the film’, there’s no reason why one should be turning it down. Frankly, it was not for packaging that he needed us, but because the story demanded Prosenjit and Rituparna. Also, I am sure that the audience will see a different me. Romancing with one eye was tough (laughs)…   My character too is extremely unpredictable.  It feels good when a film is praised and also does well at the box office, like Bishorjon. Though no one can say what will be a film’s fate from before, I am sure of one thing: when the audience sees us, they say, ‘No one but Prosenjit and Rituparna can do this’.