HYDERABAD: India is the hotspot of digital innovation across sectors and stands on the cusp of the fourth industrial revolution with new-age technologies, which are disruptive in nature, and poised to have a deep impact on the way we live and work, said Prime Minister   on Monday while flagging off 22nd edition of World Congress on   (WCIT) 2018. This is the first such IT congress to be held in India. 

 He urged the gathering of over 2,000 top global IT honchos and professionals, who converged in the city for the three-day WCIT and 26th edition of the   (NILF), to reflect on changing nature of jobs in the emerging age of intelligent automation.   stressed on the importance of skilling citizens for the workplace of the future. 
  
  
 "Disruptive technologies such as Blockchain and the Internet of Things (IoT) will have a deep impact on the way we live and work and require rapid adaptation in our workplaces," he said.
 
 Nasscom India Leadership Forum (NILF), to reflect on changing nature of jobs in the emerging age of intelligent automation. Modi stressed on the importance of skilling citizens for the workplace of the future.
 
 “Disruptive technologies
 
 
 
 
 Modi, who kicked off the joint WCIT-NILF 2018 inaugural session via video-conferencing and remotely unveiled Nasscom’s skill development platform — FutureSkills, said while India launched the National Skill Development Mission to prepare its children and youth for a bright future, it also needs to ensure that existing workforce is able to re-skill as new technologies emerge.
 
 Pointing out that India has a rising number of innovative entrepreneurs and a growing market for tech innovation, he said: “We believe our startups are the key to finding viable and economical solutions across sectors and verticals. India is best placed to leverage power of technology and leap-frog into the future while empowering every citizen. We were and we remain one of the most tech-friendly populations in the world with over one lakh villages linked with optical fibre, 121 crore mobile phones, 120 crore Aadhaar and 50 crore internet users. We have successfully completed this life-cycle in last three-and-half years.”
 
 Attributing this success to the government’s Digital India programme, he said “Digital India is a journey ushering digital inclusion for digital empowerment aided by digital infrastructure for digital delivery of services. Leveraging technology in such a holistic manner was unthinkable few years ago. This has been possible through a change in public behaviour and processes. Digital India has not remained merely a government initiative, but has become a way of life.”
 
 “Technology transcended power-point presentations and become an inseparable part of people’s lives. While most government initiatives depend on a government push, Digital India is succeeding because of the people’s pull,” he said.
 
 Dwelling at length on his government’s tech push, he spoke about how the JAM trinity of combining 320 million Jan Dhan bank accounts of poor with Aadhaar and mobile with direct benefits of welfare measures had saved 57,000 crore, how around 22 million digital hospital transactions across 172 hospitals in India were bringing comfort in lives of patients and National Scholarship Portal for easy scholarships today had 14 million students registered on it.
 
 “Digital payments through BHIMUPI has registered transactions of 15,000 crore in January 2018. The unique Umang app launched only three months back is already offering 185 government services,” he said.
 
 On the Pradhan Mantri Rural Digital Literacy Mission launched to ensure digital literacy in every household by making 60 million adults digitally literate in rural India, he said, 10 million people have already been trained.
 
 
