CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu chief minister   on Tuesday evening ordered a single judge inquiry commission, to be headed by a retired   judge, to probe the violence and resultant death of nine people due to police firing at  , after a protest march against   Copper smelter turned violent. Tamil Nadu governor   in a separate statement, while condoling the death, placed the toll at 11 people.

 The chief minister announced payment of Rs 10 lakh compensation to the kin of those killed in the police firing. While those seriously injured will get Rs 3 lakh, people with minor injuries will get Rs one lakh as compensation. The chief minister also promised government jobs to one member of each family of those killed in the police firing on compassionate basis. 
 
 The ruling AIADMK, which came in for much flak from the opposition parties for the police firing, “resulting from its inaction and failure to prevent the violence”, however maintained that the firing was warranted as the protestors, despite Section 144 CrPC being in force, went ahead with the march and indulged in violence.
 
 “The protestors entered the collectorate and indulged in arson by setting on fire the vehicles parked in the premises. They also attacked the district collector’s office. To bring the situation under control and to prevent further violence, the police had to open firing,” Palaniswami said in a statement. Condoling the deaths, the chief minister said additional teams of doctors and medical staff have been pressed into service to attend to those admitted in various hospitals in the district.
 
 Earlier on Tuesday afternoon, soon after violence broke out, the chief minister convened an emergency meeting with senior government and police officials at the state secretariat to take stock of the situation. A statement released by the Tamil Nadu government, after the meeting, sought to list out actions taken by it to force the copper smelter to shut down its operations.
 
 While former chief minister J Jayalalithaa had ordered the plant’s closure on March 29, 2013, the company had approached the National Green Tribunal and got its nod to reopen on May 31, 2013. The state government then preferred an appeal in the Supreme Court, which is still pending.
 
 This year, with the ‘consent to operate’ certificate from the state pollution control board getting expired on March 31, 2018, the company approached the board for clearance to operate for five years till 2023. The board citing non-adherence of certain pollution control norms, however, declined its consent on April 9 and ordered its closure. It also directed it not to re-open the plant without the board’s permission.
 
 Assuring that all legal means will be pursued to prevent the plant from restarting its operations, it appealed to the people to remain peaceful.
 
 
