LUCKNOW: In a bid to neutralise the impact of formidable caste combination of SP-BSP alliance in 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the BJP government is all set to moot a proposal to induct 17 MBCs (Most Backward Castes) into the Scheduled Caste (SC) category. This is not the first time that such a proposal is being sent. At least three similar attempts in the past 18 years have not succeeded. The party has also promised caste reservation in promotion on which the two regional parties have diametrically opposite stand.

 Political observers say that the coming together of SP and   and its visible impact on Gorakhpur and   byelections has forced the ruling BJP to go to the drawing board to redo its caste arithmetic. Chief minister   Adityanath has already announced on the floor of the house about his intention to give quota within quota to most backwards and maha dalits.
 
 Now, his government is contemplating sending a proposal to the Centre to include 17 MBCs into the scheduled caste-fold. While previous governments, led by SP’s Mulayam Singh Yadav and his son Akhilesh Yadav, have sent similar proposal in the past, BSP chief Mayawati, when she was the CM, had opposed the move in 2007.
 
 A similar step was also taken during a past BJP government, when the then chief minister   had constituted Hukum Singh committee in 2001.The committee had asked for separate reservations for MBCs and the maha dalits. The move was challenged in court and the report could not be implemented as it was opposed by noth SP and BSP.
 
 Now Yogi has taken a leaf out of Rajnath book with same intent, but it would take time before he announces for reservation to 17 MBCs under the SC category. The 17 MBCs identified by the government for SC tag include Rajbhar, Nishad, Prajapati, Mallah, Kahar, Kashyap, Kumhar, Dhimar, Bind, Bhar, Kevat, Dhivar, Batham, Machua, Manjhi, Turha and Gaur.
 
 A similar list was recommended by Mulayam Singh Yadav government in 2004 and by Akhilesh Yadav government in 2016. SP had identified the benefits of the move as it would have kept both OBCs—whose share within 27% quota would have increased and 17 MBCs, who would have got more opportunities as SCs. Mayawati, however, opposed it has it would have reduced her traditional   voters’ share in 22.5% quotas earmarked for the SCs.
 
 “By reigniting the move, the BJP not only wants to keep these influential MBCs in good humour, but will try to expose the dichotomy between the stances of SP and BSP on the the issue. Another issue that will brought to the fore the diference between the SP and BSP is the quota in promotion. While Mayawati is all for it, Akhilesh Yadav government opposed it in courts,” says a political analyst.
 
 “Since the procedure to include any caste in the SC category is complex and a long-drawn process, and requires parliament nod, till then the ruling party is simply playing caste cards to test the unity between SP and BSP,” he adds.
 
