BENGALURU : Investigations into the seven-month-old   have been stalled by an administrative issue — lack of translators with felicity not only in Kannada and Hindi but also a smattering of Gujarati.

 The Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the case had obtained a lower court’s permission to subject the only accused in its custody, KT Naveen Kumar alias Hotte Manja, 38, to narcoanalysis at the   in Ahmedabad, Gujarat. 
 
 While FSL Ahmedabad had acceded to the SIT’s request, the court had, however, said a translator with approved credentials and expertise in Hindi and Kannada with some knowledge of Gujarati should be present during the test.
 
 “Naveen doesn’t know Hindi and the FSL staffers have no knowledge of Kannada,” SIT sources said, adding, “Since it is a sensitive case, we can’t take risk. The questions and answers should be accurately captured and we don’t want to face setbacks in court. We will video record the entire narco test and produce the same before the court.” 
 
 The sources said the test now hinges on them finding the translator, adding they are confident of finding one soon.
 
 Naveen, a resident of Maddur in Mandya district, who ran  , is suspected to have provided logistical support to Gauri’s killers. He is said to have accompanied four men who had come from a neighbouring state to Gauri’s house, and conducted recces for them.
 
 SIT sources said the four youths were carrying a country-made pistol. The four Hindi-speaking youths, sporting T-shirts, sports caps and dark sunglasses, had arrived in Maddur in a Maruti Omni with Naveen at the wheel.
 
 Pistol was hidden in rice bag
 
 A local resident whom the SIT questioned told cops that Naveen displayed a country-made pistol that was hidden in a rice bag. “The four youths were conversing in Hindi and I understood that they were travelling to Kollegal for some work. I was standing near the van when Naveen called me and showed me the rice bag,” the resident told SIT.
 
 “When I peeped inside the bag, I could see only rice. Naveen then pulled out a pistol. He said the weapon was meant for some big work,” sources said quoting the resident.
 
 SIT had arrested Naveen on February 18 after recovering 15 rounds of live bullets from him. On March 2, SIT took Naveen into custody for questioning him about his suspected role in Gauri’s murder. Sleuths approached the court on March 5 seeking permission to subject Naveen to a narco test in Gujarat. The permission was granted on March 12.
  
 
