NEW DELHI: In the next seven months, not only will the water supply in   sub-city improve, but the groundwater level is also expected to rise — all thanks to a new artificial lake on which work has started after Delhi Jal Board’s approval at a cost of Rs 56 crore. 

 This would the first model project wherein a lake will be used to augment water supply. “The special lake being created next to the Dwarka water treatment plant (WTP) will have a sand bed to allow maximum percolation of water into the ground. 
 
 
  
  
 
 It will have a capacity of 10 million gallons (4.4 crore litres). The digging work has already started,” said DJB vice-chairman Dinesh Mohania. The project is expected to add supply of 5-6 million gallons water to Dwarka every day. 
 
 It’s also the first attempt in using discharge from a sewage treatment plant (STP) to augment supply of a waterstressed region. 
 
 “Due to indiscriminate usage of borewells, the groundwater in Dwarka has become saline. The area falls in zone 3 as per the latest report of   ( ), which means that no groundwater extraction can be allowed. This lake will help in dilution and improvement of the groundwater quality,” a DJB official explained. 
 
 To create this water body, 5-6 MGD of treated water from the STP will be diverted across   drain through a pipeline to the Dwarka water treatment plant. 
 
 At present, the 20MGD discharge from the STP is dumped in Najafgarh drain. “The treated water from the STP will go through a series of constructed wetlands and purified naturally by passing through boulders, pebbles, special plants and algae that absorb pollutants before reaching the lake,” said an official overseeing the project. 
 
 The excess runoff from the lake will be extracted through relief wells and seven high discharge tubewells tofeed the raw water supply of Dwarka WTP, which is currently treating 45MGD water. “With the addition of 5 MGD from the STP, almost 2.27 crore litres of water will be available to the area residents,” said an official. A similar smaller project will be executed at Pappankalan later.
 
