Adnaan Rizvi

 The walls of  , a place where the Lakhnawi gharana of Kathak was formed, echoed once again with the sound of ghungroos when a traditional baithak was organised after a gap of two years. The deohri, also Pt Birju Maharaj’s house, has been turned into a Kathak museum and was inaugurated around two years ago. The place had not seen much activity since then, save for the one that was organised on Wednesday. The second baithak titled ‘Hazari’ was organised by  , one of Pt Birju Maharaj’s disciples, at the deohri in Golaganj, Aminabad. All of Maharaj ji’s students and Kathak aficionados gathered at the house to enjoy an afternoon of dance and music. 
 As is the normal practice in a baithak, people sat around on the floor as the dancers gave their performances to pay a tribute to Pt   and other maestros of the dance form. 
 The event kick-started with a guru vandana performed by budding dancers. Kantika Mishra presented a ballet on Lord Krishna and his makkhan chori while Neha Singh Mishra performed on a thumri on Radha-Krishna.
 "I was told by Pandit Birju Maharaj to revive the concept of baithak so that Lucknowites ko is deohri se joda jaa sake as the Lakhnawi gharana in Kathak started from here. It is our wish to bring back the culture of baithaks in the city," said Anuj Mishra, adding, "We only called upon a limited audience who are dedicated to the art of Kathak wholeheartedly as there was not much space. But, that limited audience seemed to be a big one as the enthusiasm in them was at its peak."
 
  
  Padmashri Pratap Pawar, came from the UK to perform at the baithak and Aparna Sharma (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) 
 
  
  The guests and students of Kathak at the deohri (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) 
 
  
  (L-R) Dr Raj Khushiram, Nandita Singh and Vinod Mishra (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) 
 
  
  (L-R) Dr Rashmi and Dr A Chaturvedi and Anuj Mishra (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) 
 
  
  Manjusha Mishra and   (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) 
 
 Nawab Jafar Mir Abdullah was spotted appreciating the performances with waah-waahs and motivating the budding artistes with comments like 'bahut badhiya' and 'shabaash'. Sharing his thoughts, he said, "It was an overwhelming experience to see history coming alive in front of us as this tradition has nearly vanished from Lucknow. Pt Birju Maharaj said that the hall of this deohri should keep echoing with the sound of ghungroos so that maximum people could come and be a part of this culture. This kothi was granted to Thakur Prasad sahab, who was the guru of   and since then it became the deohri of the Lucknow Kathak gharana. Bacchhon ko aise events se etiquettes and manners ki taleem milti hai."
 Padma Shri Pratap Pawar, popularly known as India’s Divine Dancer, marked his presence as the guest performer, who came all the way from the  . The first disciple of Pt Birju Maharaj, amazed the audience with his impeccable techniques that blended precision in footwork with aesthetics and imagery. "The years old building makes me remember those good old days when there was no light connection here and I used to come here for a month in summers to dance with my guru," shared Pratap Pawar, adding, "The baithak trend has somewhere got lost among the young generation of Kathak performers who are focusing more on speed rather than the real style of the art form. Now they dance to earn applauds on maximum chakkars but not to live the art. Lucknow gharane ke jaisa andaaz poori duniya mein kahin nahi hai."
 The Padma Shri awardee kick-started his performance on thaat aamad and drut laéy which was appreciated by Kathak lovers. When the 75-year-old artist performed on the ghazal 'Do Gaz Zameen Na Mili', written by the last Mughal emperor Bahadur Shah Zafar, it made most emotional. Later, his dance on the ghazal 'Chandani Dhoop Ki', composed by Raj Kumar Rizvi, also earned him a lot of appreciation. Aparna Sharma came especially from Delhi to witness the event, said, "I used to be a Kathak performer but it became a challenging task to continue performing after getting married. But, after seeing the tradition of this baithak, which I had only heard of from my gurus, performed live, I was filled with enthusiasm to resume my dancing."
 — Adnaan Rizvi
 
 
