HYDERABAD: Eight-year-old girl student Monika, who was found dead under suspicious circumstances at her residence at Upperpally, Rajendranagar two days ago, was murdered, according to police. They have zeroed in on the suspect and took him into custody, but are awaiting forensic reports to formally arrest the culprit.

  
  
 Forensic experts, who conducted a post-mortem examination on the body, concluded that Monika was throttled and smothered to death.
 
  police officers said three suspects were earlier taken into custody by Rajendranagar police to investigate the   case. The investigators were probing the case from three different angles — attempt to commit theft at the victim’s residence, which might have led to the murder, or an attempt to  , who was alone, or the murder was the result of an illicit relationship.
 
 On Sunday, police ruled out the role of  , the girl’s neighbour who first saw the victim lying on the cot with blood oozing from her mouth, in the murder case after she was questioned.
 
 “We are yet to get the postmortem report, but forensic experts confirmed that Monika was throttled to death. Experts have ruled out sexual assault on the victim. It is a clear cut case of murder,’’ sources in Cyberabad police told TOI.
 
 When police studied the scene of offence, they found there was no disturbance at the house. “It appears that the accused tried to do something at the victim’s house and ended up killing the girl, who was lean. We have almost zeroed in on the culprit, who has been complaining of health issues and even got admitted to hospital, and took him into custody,” officials added.
 
 During investigation, police came to know that Monika after returning from school on Friday afternoon went to Mallamma’s house and played there for sometime before returning home. The girl was last seen by locals around 2.30pm. An hour later, Mallamma saw a dog going inside the girl’s house. She went inside the house to alert Monika, but found the girl lying on the cot. When Mallamma tried to wake up Monika, the former found blood oozing from the girl’s mouth and scratch marks on her neck. She alerted locals, her parents and police.Rajendranagar police have altered the case from Section 174 (suspicious death) of the CrPC to 302 (murder) of the IPC.
 
