I first saw   when she briefly visited the recording of Mr India where I did the playback for her. I sang '  hawaii' and '  hain hum pyar Mr India se'. Both of them, particularly 'Hawa hawaii', attained such stupendous success.

 In fact the opening lines of Hawa hawaii were slowly expanded by lyricist  . It was initially just 'Hawa hawaii'. He came to the studio and added the word Mombasa. Then the 'Lak chik' portion became longer. The final lengthy version is what we recorded that sat on the lips of every Indian despite being such a tongue twister.
 
 In fact I was not sure that Laxmikant-Pyarelal would retain that song in my voice. I would often dub for them those days. I thought it would be recorded in Asha Bhosle's voice later. But I was so happy when after a few days, I received the good news that my version of 'Hawa hawaii' would be retained in the film.
 
 I realised then that I had mispronounced one word! The word was 'janoon' but I had sung 'jeenu'. I called Laxmiji to request him to record again. But he said no, just see the brilliant manner in which Sridevi has enacted the song. It needs nothing more. And it was true. I saw the reel and was floored. Her performance was mind-boggling, the choreography superb.
 
 Mr India became Sridevi's first major success in Hindi films. And what a phenomenal career it turned out to be. She took the world by storm, she became a legend of celluloid.
 
 I went on to sing for many of her films including 'Roop Ki Rani Choron Ka Raja', 'Tera bimar mera dil' in 'Chaalbaaz', 'Jeevan jyot jale' in ' ' and 'Balma tum mere' in 'Nagina'. Our partnership yielded memorable music that helped both our careers.
 
 The best part was that although she was so vibrant and bubbly on screen, she was so gentle, graceful, polite, quiet and shy on screen.
 
 I received word of her passing early Saturday morning around 5.00am. I was shocked beyond belief. My heart goes out to her children in particular. She had recently made a comeback with 'English Vinglish' and 'Mom', we expected another full innings from her.
 
