A group of Noida's working professionals has found an offbeat way of socializing and helping in coping with the daily stress of their nine-to-five jobs. From a software techie and a kathak dancer to professional and amateur musicians, people from various walks of life come together to form the Djembe Circle, a group of people who meet alternate Sundays to   away their blues. 

 
 For Dhruv Trivedi, a software architect, playing the djembe is a stress buster. "While throughout the week, I’m occupied with coding, software tools and programs, on the weekends I look forward to take part in drumming. While drumlines and drum circles are a popular concept in the US and UK, it is only in the past few years that the trend has picked up in  . I am a father to twin babies but I somehow manage to find time for this. This is the best option for those who are looking to spend their weekends in an offbeat way. All that one needs to know are the four basics of striking the right note with a djembe – bass, tone, slap and touch/tap – and you are good to go."
 He adds, "Unlike a live band performance, where the audience comes, sees and goes away, what makes this community jamming a more relatable activity is that people actually get involved. For instance, while shopping at a mall, they hear the beat and join in. A lot of people from nearby eateries and cafes start flocking, taking pictures and videos. They start tapping their feet, humming and cheering."
 
  
  Mallika Handa, a resident of Sector 39 and a tarot card reader at a drumming session
 
 
 
 Kalpana Dutt, a resident of Okhla and final-year student of Fine Arts at  , tells us, “I got to know about this concept of drumming with a bunch of youngsters in Noida, and I decided to be a part of it. Last Sunday was my maiden performance and I’ve already made friends. I am a professional kathak dancer, so I have a fair understanding of rhythm, beats and synchronisation and drumming is something which also requires all of this, so I’m planning to get regular now.” 
 
 Pulkit Arora, a resident of Najafgarh and 3D animator, visits Noida regularly for the jamming sessions. He says, "Noida mein jam karne ka maza hi kuch aur hai! Sunday ki shaam, a beautiful view of the setting sun, greenery, drum beats and dance – it is just the perfect way to spend your day off. Our instruments are heavy and need space, so performing in a relaxed, open atmosphere in Noida is a different experience altogether."
 
  
  Taking a break from the daily routine: Members of the Djembe Circle group at Sector 18
 
 
 Amit Harit, a resident of Sector 78, who works as a branch manager at a private   in Noida, says, "Throughout the week, I am surrounded with paperwork, numbers, coordinating and overseeing branch operations. Bank mein bade calculative log milte hain. But here, I find so many like-minded people. I have been playing with the group for the past three years and now it feels like family. The friendships and bonding have become so strong that we even attend each other family functions. We recently attended a wedding at a fellow drummers’ house, where we played alongside the dholwallahs and it went on till the wee hours. On a Sunday that falls around a festival, we have have at least 120-150 mall-goers joining us for an interactive jamming session."
 
 Mallika Handa, a resident of Sector 39 and a tarot card reader, says, "For me, drumming is spiritual and it sends me into trance. Being a tarot card reader, drumming with a completely new set of people enhances my spiritual understanding of the world. The best part about performing in Noida is that there are a lot of young working professionals from different backgrounds and we all connect well through the rhythm. There are no lyrics, we just hear the beats and connect with each other."
 Piyush Verma, a professional biker and engineer, who participates in the jam sessions regularly, says, "I find a lot of similarity between biking and drumming. For me, both are best done in the company of good friends and both require harmony and a certain pace to keep going."
 
  
  (R )Vaibhav Chaturvedi, a CA and Nikhil Verma, a theatre artist, share some fun moments while drumming
 
 
 Vaibhav Chaturvedi, a CA by profession and resident of Sector 120, who is also one of the founding members of the group, says, "In NCR, there are only two functional groups for community drumming –   and Djembe Circle (in Noida and Gurgaon). Ours is an open group and free for all. The whole idea is to come, jam with a fun set of people and shed your inhibitions. From amateur musicians to experienced ones and novices, the group has a mix of all. The best part is you might be the boss in your office and leading a team, but as part of the group, one has to leave behind his/her professional rank and ego. There are members aged between seven and 70, from varied backgrounds, who share a common passion – music."
 
  
  Marching to the beat!
 
 
 Debu Mishra, a resident of Sector 21, Jal Vayu Vihar and another founding member of  , says, "I was a member of Delhi Drum Circle and along with me, there were several other members in the group who were based in Noida. While Delhi had a few active drumming circles, Noida had none, and it was really difficult for people to travel all the way to Delhi, so we decided to start our own group in Noida in 2014. Now, we meet regularly on alternate Sundays for jamming at a mall in Sector 38A. The best part about jamming in a public place is that we get to play in an open-air space and visitors come and start cheering and dancing with us. The interesting part about this concept is that none of the participants rehearse. They are all mostly working professionals, who only meet on the weekends. They come and start playing and the synergy just builds up naturally."
 
 – Aditi.Pancholi@timesgroup.com
 
 
  
 
 
