NEW DELHI:   (KISG), a government initiative with focus on reviving the sports culture at the grassroots and establishing the country as a sporting nation, will kick off from Wednesday, with Prime Minister   consenting to preside over the opening ceremony at the Indira Gandhi Indoor (IGI) Stadium in the evening.

 
 
 
 On the first day of the competition, the event will feature six medal rounds, all of which will be held in the morning session at the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium. The six finals apart, there will be the heats for the 100m, which will feature the teen sprint sensation   from the host state Delhi. Nisar, the current national champion, is likely to face a stiff challenge from his teammate Badal Shaukeen.
 
 
 
 Part of the 
  National Programme for Development of Sports, KISG is an annual competition with the objective of creating inspirational value amongst young budding players in the country and to create a platform for talent identification. The first KISG is being organised for the Under-17 age bracket and will be held at various venues across Delhi in 16 disciplines from January 31 to February 8.
 
 From this, the brightest 1000 youngsters the competition will get scholarships worth Rs. 5 lakh each per year for a period of eight years, the sports ministry has accounted, and every year, new athletes will be added under this scheme. The government is hopeful that KISG will act as a starting point towards identifying India's medalists at future Olympic Games. The nine-day competition will see the young and promising athletes vying for 199 gold, 199 silver and 275 bronze medals on offer.
 
 "The objective of   is aimed at ushering a sports culture in the country. It's more than just winning or losing," said sports minister  , indicating that in the future editions, the age for inducting talented athletes into the programme could be further reduced. "The idea is to groom athletes by providing them with the right training facilities and exposure. Their progress will be monitored by using IT-driven technology. The aim is to engage the maximum number of people with sports. It has to start from within the family, in schools and at the local level. When more people start playing sport, we will discover more talent."
 
 Earlier this month, the Khelo India Anthem was unveiled and has already struck a chord with Indians, crossing an unprecedented reach of 200 million viewers across digital platforms YouTube, Facebook, Twitter and Instragram in 48 hours.
 
