INDORE: Despite several reminders, only 200   from Indore district have applied for DAVV’s   till date, while 88 colleges are yet to apply for it. 

 The process of affiliation of colleges by different universities in the state has been made foolproof this year, with the state government adopting a tough stand against mushrooming of ‘substandard’ affiliated colleges. A number of affiliated colleges from the city may lose their affiliation if they do not fulfil the criteria laid down by the   and the department of higher education.
 
 Following number of complaints received from students of not having adequate facilities in the colleges as promised, the DHE has prepared strict guidelines for affiliation this year. According to the new affiliation guidelines, only the colleges with facilities like library, playground, laboratories etc along with professors and head of departments for each stream will be eligible for affiliation from the state universities. 
 
 The DHE is learnt to have based its changes taking into consideration the terms of the UGC (Affiliation of Colleges by Universities) Regulations, 2009. 
 
 Sources in universities confirmed that there are about   affiliated degree colleges in the Indore district, but hardly 100 of them could be called an educational institution. “Most of them are virtually ‘education shops’, where degrees are sold at a premium. There is neither any infrastructure nor qualified teachers and consequently students admitted to these colleges are directly sent up for examinations without attending even a single class. The examination results of students are managed by the college authorities as per the pocket of their guardians,” said a source.
 
 The UGC (Affiliation of Colleges by Universities) Regulations, 2009, categorically provides that any institution seeking affiliation from a university must have undisputed ownership of land not less than two acre in metropolitan cities and five acre in other areas besides administrative, academic and other buildings with sufficient accommodation, proper library and laboratory facilities, sufficient space for sports and games, common rooms, canteens, health centres and hostels. 
 
 The college must have also sufficient number of teachers and non-teaching staff as per university norms. The affiliation work is going on in the varsity from last two months and the process has been affected badly during this month owing to the university staff strike. 
 
 The university is likely to close the affiliation process by March-end.
 
 
