GHAZIABAD: The government railway police (GRP) has recommended the names of three minor boys to the railways after their presence of mind helped avert a major train mishap in   on January 19. The GRP has also decided to honour the boys with certificates of commendation on January 26.

 The boys – Sachin (15), Pawan alias Tushy (16) and Shiva (17) – who live in New Defence Colony near Muradnagar railway station, spotted fishplates missing from tracks minutes before the Dehradun Express was to pass through on January 19. The boys also caught hold of a man who had removed the fishplates and handed him over to the station master who in turn informed GRP and stopped the train.
 
 Sachin studies in Class VIII in a government school near the ordnance factory in Muradnagar, Ghaziabad. Pawan and Shiva, who live in Sachin’s neighbourhood, do odd jobs for a living.
 
 The incident took place between 8.30am and 9am on January 19.
 
 “We had gone to defecate near the railway tracks as usual on the morning of January 19. While walking back home, we encountered a man on the railway tracks who asked Shiva for his mobile phone to make a call. Shiva did not give him his mobile phone. We noticed an axe-like equipment in the man’s hand. We also noticed that fishplates had been removed a little distance ahead, at a spot from where the man had walked towards us. We realized he had taken off the fishplates. We could hear the siren of the Dehradun Express at distance which usually crosses Muradnagar at this hour. We rushed to the station master along with the man, whom we overpowered, and handed him over. The station master and cops stopped the train a short distance ahead of the spot where fishplates had been removed,” Sachin told TOI.
 
 The Dehradun Express travelling from Delhi was stopped for around 20 minutes till the repair work was over.
 
 The accused was identified as Furqaan (35), an original resident of Malakpur village in Bulandshahr district. An FIR was registered against him on January 19 at the GRP police station in Meerut under Section 150 (maliciously wrecking or attempting to wreck a train) of the Railways Act, 1989. The CJM, Meerut, sent him to judicial custody on Saturday.
 
 A team of cops from UP-ATS, RPF, GRP and local police questioned Furqaan after his arrest. 
 
 “The accused has told us that he had stolen the fishplates in order to sell it to a scrap dealer for cash. Investigations conducted so far have not revealed any terrorist activity. However, several agencies are at work to ascertain his motive, GRP senior superintendent of police Subash Chandra Dubey told TOI.
 
 
