UDAIPUR: The soaring temperature has not only hit the human life, but also the animals at the   in Udaipur. 

 
 Authorities at   here are taking several measures to keep the inmates cool. 
 
 Increased fluid diet, citrus fruits, electrolyte-mixed water etc are to name a few apart from setting up of coolers inside the holding areas, green shade nets, artificial water points and mud points so that the animals keep themselves cool throughout the day. 
 
 "There is not much deviation in the diet for animals; however, keeping in view the heat, bear are being given honey, ice-creams and water melons occasionally. Citrus fruits like oranges, grapes, musk melons too are being given to monkeys," DFO Harini V told TOI. 
 
 Except the white tiger, all other animals are natives of the land and hence they are acclimatised to the heat naturally. However, the white tiger which has been brought from Chennai zoo is being given special care, Harini said. 
 
 The animals before being taken to the display area are given a spray shower every morning and their display areas are well sprinkled with plenty of water so that the temperature is lesser. "Every holding area has at least 3-4 coolers that run throughout the night when the animals are inside. And on off days when the animals are not taken to the display area, they have the cooling system throughout the day," she said.
 
 With the temperature hovering around 43 degrees continuously, the zoo authorities have set up wallowing points, water and mud points so that the animals can cover their bodies with mud in order to lessen the effect of heat. There are artificial water holes set up inside the display area too and most of the animals are seen lying inside the water pool in order to combat the heat, she added.
 
 "The veterinary doctor visits the zoo daily these days so as to keep a check that the animals are not dehydrated or ill. If any animal is found to be dull or inactive, we mix electrolyte powder in their drinking water so as to save them from dehydration which is the most common problem in  ," said  , chief conservator of forest (wildlife). 
 
