NEW DELHI: In a bold move that previous governments have not been able to execute, the Union government has decided to 'trim' India's public broadcaster,  , to make it leaner and better equipped to tackle growing competition from private players in the television and radio markets. 

 
 To achieve this, Prasar  , under which Doordarshan and   operate, will be subject to a 'comprehensive manpower audit' in line with the recommendations of the   expert committee on Prasar Bharati. The committee, which was constituted by the UPA II and whose recommendations have been with the government since January 2014, was not implemented. 
 
 The broadcaster has finalised the terms of reference for the manpower audit and also invited bids for the work through the   (Becil). Sources said once the contract is signed, the trimming process will have to be completed within six months, with a mid-term assessment of progress after three months. 
 
 The resource rationalisation is likely to include winding up of offices located in proximity to each other, closure of the civil construction wing of the All India Radio, shut down of the National Academy of Broadcasting and Multimedia (but not its training programmes), and of Prasar Bharati properties that are impacted by technological obsolescence, among others. 
 
 A source close to the decision said, "The Pitroda committee saw that over the years, Prasar Bharati had accumulated a lot of flab that it needed to lose to become more efficient. The public broadcaster had not kept pace with the evolving media industry. On the one hand, while some equipment had become obsolete, some posts too had lost their relevance. Since its inception, Prasar Bharati had also never undertaken a study to assess channel-wise viability. All this has to be addressed in the manpower audit." 
 
 
  
 
 The terms of reference include assessments of the monetary value of PB, DD and AIR trademarks and copyrights against their misuse, and the market value of digitised archival content of cultural and historical relevance, and assessment of the broadcaster's multiple assets. Key deliverables also include the current state analysis of numbers by roles, skills, functional necessity and productivity of staffers. The audit will identify dying cadres and posts that are redundant, along with a redeployment plan that addresses both training and promotion of existing manpower through a "modern appraisal system". 
 
 Sources said the restructuring will cut costs and ramp up revenues, and will also free up government property that it may put to alternative use. "Ideally, this exercise should result in agglomerations merging," a source said. 
 
 At present, Doordarshan operates 23 television channels and a free-to-air direct-to-home platform, while AIR operates a total of 420 radio stations, including FM channels, local radio stations, Vividh Bharati stations and five community radio stations.
 
 According to the 2014 expert committee report, Prasar Bharati, at the time of submission of report, had 31,621 full time, and 7,269 part time employees, and a sanctioned strength of over 46,000 employees, making it the highest in the world for a public broadcaster, and much larger in size than BBC and Al Jazeera, the broadcasters it has often sought to emulate. 
 
 In financial terms as well, the public broadcaster has been a funds guzzler. In 2015-16 alone, Prasar Bharati received grants and subsidies from the Union government to the tune of Rs 12,243 crore. In the same year, its establishment costs and other administrative expenses had added up to over Rs 3,181 crore.
 
