NAGPUR: In the wake of the high-grade fever and cough affecting a very large number of children in the city, senior paediatrician Dr   has given a call to every counterpart not to prescribe any   to any child at all.

 He claims that cough syrups have no proven efficiency in the treatment of cough and cold and should never be given.
 
 Time and again, the high courts in country have been banning cough syrups but the doctors, both paediatricians as well physicians, have been prescribing these to children and adults. The US FDA banned cough syrup with codeine and hydrocodone for patients under 18 years of age this month. It is also working on cough syrups for children containing opioids.
 
 It is high time for India’s doctors to understand that cough syrups are banned in most of the developed countries and no doctors there prescribe it. “Cough is a natural mechanism to throw out dust and any other particle which can be a foreign body or germs. Coughing is a life-saving mechanism devised by the body for its own protection. By giving cough syrup, we are trying to hinder this natural mechanism, and in fact making the person more prone to infections,” said Dr Deopujari.
 
 He categorically said that in fact, cough syrups are ‘harmful’ to an individual. They contain more than one ingredient and all of them are not good for the patient.
 
 “I have myself seen prescriptions of a paediatrician prescribing not just one but three syrups to a child who later came to me for a second opinion. This is simply intolerable. I can’t name the doctor but after this, I seriously thought of taking an initiative and requesting every paediatrician to stop prescribing cough syrups,” he said.
 
 The cough syrup should work by going to the lungs, whereas it actually goes through the whole gut and does more harm than good. It even increases the heart rate in children. “Besides, all cough syrups have sedatives and hence, are addictive. This is the worst. Recently, cricketer Yusuf Pathan was also found consuming it. Availability of cough syrups is more of a menace and opens doors for drug abuse than actually benefiting the patient,” said Dr Deopujari.
 
 He also emphasized that none of the paediatric textbooks so far have mentioned any use of cough syrups in the management of cough and cold. “Cough syrups even contain certain narcotic drugs. But unfortunately, most of the cough syrups are available over the counter (OTC) in India. First, this sale should be banned,” he said.
 
 President of the   Dr   too came out in support of Dr Deopujari. She told TOI that no textbook in medicine talks about management of cold and cough by cough syrup.
 
 She also calls cough a protective mechanism to throw out pathological elements from the body. She said if this natural process is stopped, it is harmful for the body. Dr   said patients coughing due to asthma are given bronchodilators and not cough syrup.
 
 “Cough syrups contain anti-histamines, sedatives, increase heart rate, and reduce breathing rate which is bad for the patient. Identifying the pathogen causing the cough is better than giving syrups. In fact, Indian remedies like milk with turmeric and ginger with honey are better to minimize coughing,” Dr Mujawar added.
 
 
