NAVI MUMBAI: After six years of hanging fire, the project to turn the six-lane   creek bridge into a 12-lane stretch seems to be finally getting off the ground. 

 The   (MSRDC) which has built the six-lane bridge has evinced interest to take up the project. 
 
 Last month, it proposed that Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) and City and   (Cidco) provide funding for the bridge and it will be returned to them by the company which will be appointed for toll collection and the bridge’s maintenance. 
 
 The plan is to add three lanes on each carriageway of the bridge. Metropolitan commissioner UPS Madan said on Monday, “We are looking at the MSRDC’s proposal. The state will take a final call.” 
 
 Cidco MD Bhushan Gagrani, who headed MSRDC until recently, said an SPV was formed with Cidco and MSRDC equity’s participation at Rs 200 crore each. He said another Rs 400 crore was needed. But Madan said the project cost was now estimated at around Rs 1,200 crore. 
 
 A source said “equity participation” by the two government bodies could be an issue as far as fund availability is concerned. 
 
 The final call will be chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’s as he is the MMRDA chairman and also holds the urban development department portfolio. 
 
 Another source said the MMRDA, Cidco and the urban development department will soon take a call on the project. Experts said there is an urgent need for the project to be implemented on two counts: one, it is an important link to the upcoming Navi Mumbai international airport that will be ready by 2019 or 2020, and secondly, the toll for the other Mumbai-Navi Mumbai route—the Mumbai Trans-Harbour Link that will be ready by 2022—may not be affordable for all. The widening will take three years for completion. 
 
 Former IAS officer B C Khatua, who heads the   (MTSU), told TOI: “This project is running late by six years. The Sion-Panvel highway lane widening and the bridge widening should have been taken up simultaneously. Now, there is an urgency to take up the project in view of the increased vehicular traffic as well as the need for a smooth corridor to connect to the new international airport.’’
 
