THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The   would soon get an  . The new system called   system, based on robotics technology, would enable public to quickly send alert to the police in times of emergencies.

 According to the police, the   would be a panic button, which the public can use to send instant alerts to the police in case of emergencies. The system comprises of six surveillance cameras that can click high definition images and videos. It is also enabled with WiFi connectivity to send images, videos and even audio files to the police control room. 
 
 This will be the pilot project for the system, which is being planned to be implemented in 50 locations in the city. 
 
 “The system is being set up by a private company, Yowl Technologies based in Ernakulam as part of their corporate social responsibility programme. Since it costs nothing to the department, we decided to give it a try,” said deputy commissioner of police (law and order) G Jaidev, who is the nodal officer of the project. He said that the police have the support of city corporation authorities too in realizing the project. 
 
 The DCP also said that it is the second such system to be set up in the state. The first one was set up in Kalady in Ernakulam rural district police sub-division, where it is installed at three junctions. 
 
 P R Mohan, the CEO of Yowl Technologies, said that the system would come up at two spots in Kazhakkoottam, at Market Junction and near Indian Coffee House.
 
 “Nowadays people are reluctant to send alerts to the police as they don’t want to get embroiled in unnecessary legal troubles. Our system is an answer to such concerns as all they need to do is to press a button,” Mohan said. However, if people are willing to give more details to the police, they can do it using a mic, which is part of the system. The cops will have two receivers, one at the police control room and the other in control room vehicle assigned to the local police station.
 
 The first of the two systems at Kazhakkoottam at Market Junction is expected to become operational from next week. 
 
 
