HYDERABAD : Despite a network of flyovers, underpasses and alternate routes being developed in the city at a frenetic pace, the city’s lopsided growth, especially along the western corridor, has continued to create more  .

 This has also meant longer travel distances (up to 40 km) to reach the workplace for an increasing number of people who have settled in far flung places like Kompally, Boduppal, Kokapet and even Maheshwaram.
 
 A better quality of life and bigger living spaces at affordable prices is what attracts most of those staying in such far-off areas.
  
  
 “I recently shifted to Maheswaram as I could get a 4-BHK villa on rent for as little as Rs 10,000. I have to travel at least 36 km daily to reach my workplace in   but I preferred to shift there due to the greenery and sprawling property with all the modern amenities that I could go back to after work,” said a marketing professional,” Anjali M.
 
 Although re-routing is an identified ‘solution’ to ease traffic problems and an attempt at re-routing traffic has been underway in the city since 2002, after which a network of flyovers was built, experts point out the need to plan office spaces in a way that it reduces travel time for commuters.
 
 Currently, a huge flow of traffic towards Hi-Tec city and Gachibowli from   and   is reported.
 
 “Since expanding roads and creating more flyovers will only delay traffic jams by three years as studies have suggested, we need to look for other ways, particularly by planning workplaces better and limiting the number of vehicles travelling on the roads,” explained Anant Maringanti, transportation expert and founder of  .
 
 In fact, a few companies in the city tried to experiment with the concept of ‘walk to work’, but it failed to take off in a big way. Meanwhile, IT experts say that though the concept is a good one, it should be incorporated in the next phase of the IT corridor that is underway currently at Adibatla and  .
 
 “While this was done at the company level, the effort never saw much patronage from the IT sector as a whole. However, it is difficult to introduce the concept in already existing areas and hence, while planning the new IT corridors, office spaces, residential areas and infrastructure for pedestrians like footpaths and road over bridges should be planned in advance. Also residential complexes with direct access to office spaces like New York’s  , which is connected underground to many residential complexes, should be planned,” said a senior official of an IT company.
 
 
