CHENNAI: After a slugfest earlier over the   dispute, the all-party  , and a discussion with farmers’ groups, at the state secretariat on Thursday was marked by a spirit of camaraderie, thanks to the government’s accommodative attitude.

  All of the 39 political parties/outfits and 14 farmers’ associations/representatives in the marathon sessions expressed concern over the decades-long dispute between   and Karnataka. They stressed on the need to put in place the Cauvery Management Board to oversee the release of water. 
 
 Detailing the efforts taken by successive governments since 1983, chief minister   set the tone of the meeting. “Cauvery dispute is not only livelihood issue of the delta farmers but it is closely intertwined with sentiments of people of TN… I wish all parties stand united.” The chair elicited views from each participant, not confining to a select few. Farmers, who had a morning session with agriculture secretary, Gagandeep Singh Bedi, were pleasantly surprised by the air of   devoid of accusations.
 
 DMK working president M K Stalin was the first to speak, urging the state to act with “utmost care”. He requested Palaniswami to take an all-party delegation to PM Narendra Modi to exert pressure on the Centre to set up the Cauvery Management Board in six weeks as ordered by the Supreme Court last week. The board will ensure monthly release of water, amounting to 177.25tmcft a year from Karnataka. “The only solace in SC verdict is that the Centre should frame a scheme and there should be no delay,” Stalin said, accusing Karnataka of not adhering to the tribunal award even a year in the past.
 
 The DMK leader sought to caution the parties given the ‘flipflops’ of the Centre in setting up the board in the past, despite court’s intervention. BJP state president Tamilisai Soundararajan said, “If we have proof of poor groundwater, let’s file a review. The Congress-led Karnataka government never released water in time,” she said. TNCC chief S Thirunavukkarasar suggested that the government consult legal luminaries to take a call on review petition. “There is no rain, no groundwater and the coast is saline. If PM gives an appointment, Congress is ready to be part of the delegation,” he said. Soon other leaders like PMK’s G K Mani, CPI state secretary R Mutharasan, MDMK’s Vaiko, Naam Tamilar Katchi leader Seeman joined in to express concern over the perceived delay by the the Centre in setting up the board in view of the impending assembly polls in Karnataka. Later, the political rivals sat down for lunch. 
 
 Earlier, a handful of farmers laid siege to deputy CM’s vehicle protesting against non-disbursement of compensation under crop insurance scheme last year. The police, however, removed them. 
 
 
