KOLKATA: In a spectacular win that came in handy for the Trinamool to blunt the opposition clamour over the violence-ridden rural polls, Mamata Banerjee’s party trounced the opposition in the   assembly bypoll, with its candidate bagging 58% of the polled votes in a peaceful election held under central forces. BJP emerged as a distant second, relegating the Left to the third position despite support from  .
 
 Trinamool candidate Dulal Das won this seat— located just 7 km from Taratala — by a margin of over 62,000 votes, the highest margin in the assembly bypolls held across the country. The constituency boasts a noticeable diversity — in terms of language, religion, caste and income group. Das, who is also the   chairman, has increased the margin by 50,000 votes. In 2016 assembly polls, his wife Kasturi Das had won this seat by around 12,000 votes. “This victory is all because of Mamata Banerjee’s development mission. We served the people. My wife did that till her last. The CM congratulated me over the phone and inquired about my health,” Das said.
 
 
  
  
 
 Mamata described the spectacular win as a rebuttal to the canards being spread against her party and government. “People have given a spontaneous reply to the canards spread against those who have been trying to blow up the panchayat violence,” she said. The Maheshtala win also gave fillip to her plans of bringing the “second-generation leaders” forward, with Abhishek Banerjee leading the brigade. It was Abhishek and urban development minister Firhad Hakim among others who steered the Trinamool ship to victory when some feared that the Trinamool candidate’s estranged in-law and Kolkata mayor   might create problems.
 
 BJP also gained in the bypoll. The party pushed its tally from 7.7% in the 2016 assembly polls to 23%. Former CBI joint director and BJP candidate Sujit Ghosh said: “We have increased our votes largely. The Muslims, some Congressmen and a section of Hindu voters went with Trinamool. We couldn’t reach out to all sections.” BJP state president Dilip Ghosh held that Trinamool bagged the maximum minority votes. What follows from his statement is that BJP couldn’t monopolise the Hindu votes that happen during acute polarisation on religious lines.
 
 For the Left and Congress, Maheshtala turned out to be a massive loss. The Left tally plummeted from 81,223 votes in the 2016 assembly polls to 30,384 votes, a fall of 25%, sending out signals that the Left and Congress jote is on the path of diminishing returns in Bengal. According to   insiders, the Left suffered heavily in the minority areas where large number of voters went with Trinamool, while some of the Left voters in other areas might have voted for BJP to defeat Trinamool.
 
 Left Front chairman Biman Bose, however, blamed it on rigging in 23 booths. “Trinamool and BJP have distributed votes among themselves in these booths,” Bose said. CPM candidate Prabhat Chowdhury took the blame on himself. “It is apparent that people didn’t accept our stand. But I should also point out that both Trinamool and BJP used money and muscle power to influence the mandate,” he said.
 
