VISAKHAPATNAM: The country may have advanced in various spheres, but when it comes to family planning or opting for  , in more than 80% of the cases, the onus is on the   to use contraceptives, observed doctors from both government and private hospitals in the city.

 In the Government   for Women and Children, while around 300 women undergo family planning procedures in a month, there are only around three men who undergo vasectomy in a year. 
 
 Dr Mehar Kumar, in-charge superintendent from Victoria Hospital said, “We do about 10 surgical cases of family planning per day (for couples who already have two children), which means around 300 per month. Around 50% are double puncture laparoscopic sterilisation, while the remaining are post-partum sterilisation. We get around 50 cases of normal deliveries per month and placement of post-partum intra uterine device (PPIUD) in cases where the couple has given birth to their first child and want some time before the birth of the next child. But rarely do we get men opting for family planning, not more than two-three cases a year.” 
 
 Dr S  , consultant gynaecologist and specialist in high risk pregnancies said, “The mindset of society has not advanced and therefore even though vasectomy is a easy and risk-free process, it is not opted by men. Various myths and misconceptions deter men from undergoing vasectomy as they mistakenly think that they will become sexually weaker or cannot undertake heavy tasks. In fact, rather than focusing on post-partum sterilisation immediately after the birth of the second child, the government should conduct awareness campaigns to popularise vasectomy, which comprises no stitches but a small cut and post-operative complications and infections associated with tubectomy can be avoided.”
 
 However, the mode of contraception also differs region-wise. For instance, women from Odisha mostly use oral contraceptives while those from AP generally opt for tubectomy, observed the doctor. “Nowadays, some urban women are also using injectable contraceptives every three months instead of daily oral ones. Condom usage, which in addition to preventing unwanted pregnancies also checks transmission of HIV and STDs, is also limited among few educated men,” added Dr Anuradha.
 
 Sometimes, married women land up in unwanted pregnancy and abortions as in-laws ask them not to use contraception at all under superstitious beliefs that it would affect pregnancy later on. Dr MNV Pallavi, chief consultant obstetrician and gynaecologist at  , said, “Not only the onus of using birth control techniques is on women, we get four-five cases of unwanted pregnancy per month as the newly-wed couples have not used any form of contraception, especially from rural areas. While the husbands say they are not comfortable using condoms, the wife has been discouraged by the elders from using pills under the myth that it would affect her chances of future pregnancy. They lack the awareness that using contraceptives is much better than undergoing medical termination of pregnancy (MTP), fraught with various risks. Those planning children at a later date can take oral pills or use IUDs for spacing between children, which are quite safe. However, emergency   pills should be avoided at all cost unless it is really an emergency situation when an unprotected intercourse has taken place but the pregnancy needs to be avoided.”
 
 
