CHANDIGARH: Having seen 71 transfers in 35 years of his service, Haryana bureaucrat   will retire on Wednesday. Sources said his arrears of entitlements during the last six months are pending with the Haryana government.

 Kasni is currently posted as officer on special duty (OSD) of Haryana State Land Use Board, an organization which was disbanded in 2008. Unlike other officers for whom the farewell functions are held, Kasni will quietly join his wife   who retired as principal secretry to Haryana governor last year.
 
 Most recently, Kasni had courted controversy by reacting to the January 30 Kasganj violence in Uttar Pradesh, while referring to Bhisham Sahni’s book on riots during Partition. “Though this is superannuation, my fight against the government for sidelining me will continue. I will take this fight to the logical end. I had filed a petition before the   in this regard. On Monday, the tribunal had assured to get all my dues within time. Also, my fight against exploitation will continue,” he said.
 
 Kasni, who hails from Charkhi Dadri district, had joined the Haryana government in 1980. He was later promoted as a   (HCS) officer in February 1984 and then elevated to the Indian Administrative Service (IAS).
 
 Unwilling to be identified, officials in the establishment wing of the Haryana chief secretary’s office said, “Things (related to Kasni’s salary) have been sorted out. Things will be done at the earliest.”
 
 Kasni alleged that the government had made deductions of certain facilities like car and other things in the salary which it never provided. “However, I have full faith in the law and court,” he said.
 
 The officer saw many transfers during the Bhupinder Singh Hooda-led Congress regime between 2005 and 2014 for being upfront. His wife Neelam, however, enjoyed plum postings during all regimes.
 
 After the Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP government came to power in Haryana in October 2014, Kasni was initially given good postings in Gurgaon and Chandigarh. Later, he fell foul with the ruling dispensation and was given inconsequential posts. In September 2017, he was posted as OSD in the land use board. He was the head of the department without and staff and perks. Consequently, he moved CAT to challenge his posting. Accordingly, CAT had directed release of his salary and restoration of perks. His was sent to the land use board after being removed as the chief executive officer (SEO) of the Haryana Khadi Board.
 
 
