 Excerpts from his first, exclusive interview as chief minister.

 
 
 
 
 My top priority is addressing issues pertaining to the farming sector. I will work towards ensuring that 
  and live up to the confidence they have reposed in me. Next on my list is infrastructure development, especially Bengaluru. We need to expedite work instead of dragging it citing trivial issues. We will focus on employment generation, women empowerment, health and education.
 
 
 
 Of course it is. It is special as over 20 national leaders, including chief ministers and ministers, attended it. Can you tell me one such ceremony attended by so many leaders from different parties and states? This is for the first time in history that such a thing has happened and it 
  
 
 
 
 My father is the senior-most politician and his experience will definitely be utilized. But I want to make it clear to all that he will not micro-manage the administration. I am the CM and I will hold the reins. With regard to my father’s meeting with the chief secretary and police chiefs, it was a courtesy call by the latter. My father’s advice will be appreciated; I reiterate that he will not interfere. I have lived with the people and I too know their pulse, I am the people’s CM.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 We will not discontinue 
  . We will improvise on the same and start new programmes.
 
 
 
 Fighting it out at the hustings is different and dealing with the Centre is different. I will not go for a confrontation with the Centre. We will convince them about our requirements and persuade them to act favourably. Karnataka is the second highest revenue generating state in the country and we hope the BJP-led government appreciates the state’s contribution and takes decisions accordingly. The Centre should not show step-motherly treatment to Karnataka because they are not in power here and should not politicise everything.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 I agree with you that Bengaluru’s image and brand-building has taken a hit. But I want to assure all that Bengaluru’s growth and development will be top on my agenda. Does anyone remember when was the last time the head of a foreign country first landed in Bengaluru? That is the state of affairs we have reached. We need to revive Bengaluru’s glory and I will work on it.
 
 
 
 
 Of course, yes. I will not indulge in empty rhetoric. I understand the importance of Bengaluru on the world map. There are many foreign consulates in Bengaluru, we will coordinate with them actively and ensure inflow of more investments and will also source expertise with regard to city development. I will take the consuls general into confidence along with others and focus on bringing back Bengaluru’s glory. This is just one of the strategies. Though ours will be a coalition government, I will ensure that decisionmaking will be at an electrifying speed and transparent with regard to Bengaluru.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 I know that traffic is the major problem nagging Bengalureans, I have also faced traffic snarls and know how an ordinary motorist feels when stuck in a traffic jam. But the reality is that we have neglected this issue and allowed Bengaluru to grow exponentially in a haphazard manner. We cannot demolish buildings to make roads. What we now require are smart solutions, we will have to come up with new building-related guidelines, parking related policies and think of constructing elevated roads on drains.
 
 
 
 No cartel or lobby will be allowed to take over anything. In fact, the institution of Lokayukta was strengthened during my earlier tenure and everyone knows what happened to it later. I will keep everything transparent, anyone can approach me directly if they find something is going horribly wrong in the system. As for BJP’s allegations, they are sure to come up with unfounded theories against our government in future.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 I have been observing over the last few years that the administration has been vitiated by caste-related politics. I will start reviewing the performance of different departments and take a call on a bureaucratic reshuffle in a month’s time. We will give importance to performance while choosing officials.
 
 
 
 I will need advisers who are progressive in their thinking and do not become a pain point in administration. We do not want advisers who will bring a bad name to the government. Advisers and independent consultants will be appreciated in the fields of education and health. We will require people who can guide us on making heathcare easily accessible to the people and those who can come up with strategies that make school fees affordable to the common man. We do not want people to get trapped in debt because of rising medical and education costs.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 I have always believed that these issues should be sorted out through persuasion and negotiation with leaders from the neighbouring states. We cannot fight it depending on the law as emotions of the people are involved. I will start speaking to leaders from the neighbouring states and make all efforts to settle issues amicably.
 
 
 
 The BJP, obviously, will want us to fail. I had said earlier that I will be the person who will stall Narendra Modi-Amit Shah’s successful march and I have done it. Not just BJP, a lot of people are suspicious about our stability. Well, I know that running the coalition is not an easy task and there are limitations, but I am confident that we will succeed. We will overcome the initial teething problems quickly and work as a family. Moreover, I have learnt from the mistakes of the past, I will not waste time digging into the past and will deliver a stable government.
 
 
 
 I had promised loan waiver if our party comes to power with a full majority, but we haven’t. I would have signed on the loan waiver file immediately had we come to power on our own. The media has been claiming that I have done a volte-face on farm loan waiver, this is incorrect. My commitment to the farming community stands and I am only seeking more time as I have to take our coalition partner into confidence. We request the farming community leaders and farmers to have some patience. I will not go back on my word.
 
