DEHRADUN: A 20-year-old elephant died after it was hit by a train in Kansrau range of   (RTR) on Tuesday, making it the third   on   and the second one in the protected forest in just two months.
 
  Earlier, a tusker was killed after being hit by the   in the Rajaji Tiger Reserve in February. Another elephant was killed by a train in Lalkuan in Nainital on March 13. In both cases, the railways had given a clean chit to locopilots blaming the accidents on low visibility.
  
  The deaths had prompted the state forest department to prepare a set of proposals to prevent elephant deaths on railway tracks. These included having forest guards onboard to alert locopilots, increasing patrolling time near tracks and taking steps for better coordination between forest staff and railway officials. But the proposals are yet to take off the ground even as the forest department and the railways play a blame game.
  
  Chief wildlife warden, DVS Khati, told TOI, “The railways authority is not ready to slow down the speed of their trains while passing through forest areas.” The prescribed speed limit for a train passing through forest areas is 35 to 40km per hour. But railways state superintendent Sita Ram Sonkar said that it was lack of patrolling by the forest department and faulty equipment that was to be blamed.
  
  “The wireless sets given by the forest departments to station masters to convey information about the presence of wild animals on the track are not functioning. The forest staff hardly does any patrolling on the tracks,” Sonkar said.
  
  Between 1987 and 2001, 20 elephants were killed in train accidents on the 40km railway line that passes through inside Rajaji. Zero fatalities were recorded between 2002 and 2012 as railways and forest staff had increased patrolling on the stretch.
  
  In February this year, TOI had reported that the state government was yet to release funds of Rs 1.5 crore to conduct research to manufacture seismic sensitive sensors to be installed along railway tracks near forest areas in Uttarakhand. The sensors would alert locopilots to the presence of elephants.
  
  According to data from the state department, 359 elephants have died in the state in 17 years, including those that died of natural causes.
  
  Between 2001 and 2017, 58 elephants died in various accidents while 37 were electrocuted.
