MUMBAI: India Inc is walking the talk on gender diversity, especially at key management levels. Building a pipeline and elevating   managers to leadership positions is critical to not only improve upon   numbers, but also to ensure women managers don’t fall through the cracks as they move up the hierarchy.

 Today, companies are proactively disclosing their diversity numbers along with the number of women key management persons, or   as they are called. In a   100 companies’ analysis of performance and gender parameters by leading HR service provider   — done exclusively for TOI — a majority of 66 companies disclosed their diversity ratios, including WKMP numbers, in fiscal year 2017. In the BSE 100, out of a total of 1,039 key management persons (KMP), 76 are women, which is 7%.
 
 Of the 66 companies that have disclosed their gender diversity numbers, 35 have at least one WKMP. Among the remaining 34 companies in the BSE 100 that have not disclosed their gender numbers, 15 have at least one WKMP. In all, there are 50 companies that have at least one WKMP in the BSE 100. Randstad’s research reveals that these 50 companies have shown an overall improvement of 21% in share price in 2017 over 2016.
 
 Although, women are still far outnumbered by their male counterparts at key management levels, there are several indicators that suggest somewhere, in some form, the needle is moving.
 
 
  
 
 Randstad India MD & CEO Paul Dupuis said, “It is heartening to see that Indian companies are getting increasingly transparent and mature when it comes to details on diversity and inclusion as part of their continuing effort in becoming responsible corporate citizens. According to our research findings, women are represented on the board of every single company that feature in the BSE 100 and there is also a clear uptick in the number of WKMPs in these organisations. This is definitely a move in the positive direction and is a reflection of the fact that diversity has evolved from being just another checklist item. This should augur well for the role of women at the workplace going forward.”
 
 After it became mandatory for public-listed companies to have at least one woman on their boards, there’s been an improvement in the number of board seats held by women in BSE 100 organisations — from 133 in 2016 (12% of overall board seats held) to 148 in 2017 (14% of all board seats held).
 
 An increase in WKMPs is expected to lead to a strong pipeline of women for directorship roles in future. At present, while the gender diversity ratios at entry levels are more or less balanced, the ratios get skewed towards male employees as one moves up the hierarchies, since a section of women employees leave their careers on attaining motherhood. Bringing women back into the career stream is a key priority for most organisations today.
 
 Recognising the benefits of gender diversity, organisations globally are making several public commitments to make their workplace diverse and inclusive.   HR head Madhavi Lall said, “It is no secret that the gender gap widens at the higher echelons of the corporate ladder. So, it is vital to ensure that there is a strong pipeline of female talent. Our gender-neutral parental leave policy and other tailored training and development programmes — focused at the middle and senior management level — have been introduced to address this issue.”
 
 Deutsche Bank, where women comprise over a third of the executive committee in India, has talent-acceleration programmes to increase the pipeline of women leaders by preparing them with the key skills needed for more senior roles while retaining the highest performers and visibly accelerating their careers. Dupuis said diversity and inclusion, when inextricably woven as a comprehensive strategy into the organisational fabric and culture, not only has a greater impact on the employer brand but also makes tremendous business sense.
 
 Randstad’s study shows a large number of companies (49) fall in the bracket of 0-10% gender diversity. There are 10 companies with gender diversity of 10-20% and merely seven companies where gender diversity is over 20%. However, the percentage of WKMP is more or less the same at an average of 7% across these brackets. Which means, any improvement in gender diversity ratio is taking place at the entry- or mid-management levels, making a case for companies to work harder on developing a pipeline of women leaders.
 
 
