FEROZEPUR: Congress   Kulbir Singh Zira on Thursday raided a liquor vend in Zira town of   along with sub-divisional magistrate (SDM)   and sealed it while informing the excise and taxation department. However, officials of the excise department claimed that during checking of the vend nothing objectionable was found and the vend had been approved by the department.

 Alleging high-handedness by the MLA, several liquor contractors closed their vends in the area and handed over the keys of their establishments to the officials of the excise department at Ferozepur. “We are not going to open our establishments until MLA Zira stops his activities of harassing the local contractors,” said a liquor contractor, while demanding justice from the administration and the chief minister.
 
 Levelling serious allegations against MLA Zira, the liquor contractors said he had been misusing his powers for closing the approved liquor vends in the area. “We have been allotted liquor vends during the open auction by paying crores and are still paying instalments,” said one of the vend owners.
 
 The protesters also alleged the MLA wanted to avenge police action against his supporters Arbel Singh, a resident of Baghelewala, and another of Sodhiwala village where a team of the excise department, narcotics cell and crime investigation agency (CIA) staff from Ferozepur recovered smuggled liquor on Wednesday. A case was registered following the raid after a complaint was lodged by a liquor contractor against illicit liquor being sold in the area. The contractors alleged that MLA Zira was upset over the case being lodged against his supporters, so he made the SDM seal approved liquor vends in retaliation.
 
 The MLA couldn’t be contacted despite repeated attempts. His father and senior Congress leader Kulbir Singh Zira said the henchmen of liquor contractors were harassing the public on the ground of checking illegal liquor and minting money in the process. “We have told them several times to mend their ways and not to harass innocent public. Besides, there were reports that the liquor contractors were operating several illegal vends following which the MLA, along with the SDM, checked all shops in the area. One liquor vend was sealed after finding irregularities,” he said.
 
 When contacted, Zira SDM Gupta said he had checked several liquor vends after getting complaints of illegal shops being opened in the area. “A liquor shop has been sealed and the excise department has been asked to probe the irregularities found there,” he said.
 
 
