Nagpur: To achieve a good position in Swachh Survekshan 2018, the state government has made it mandatory for urban local bodies to ensure 80% garbage segregation, and also its reuse at source level, by April-end. Priority funds to urban local bodies will be stopped if they fail to achieve the target in the prescribed time period.

 The state’s urban development department ( ) issued a notification on Monday announcing the new norms under   (Urban) Mission. The norms have been introduced in the wake of commencement of Swachh Survekshan 2018. The central government will carry out the survey till March.
 
 The UDD has also made it mandatory for urban local bodies to commence production of bio-organic fertilizer from segregated garbage at source level itself, that too by April-end. Two options have been given, whether to reuse the wet garbage on individual basis or in a centralized manner. 
 
 The third target set by UDD for urban local bodies is to improve ranking in Swachh Survekshan 2018 in comparison with last contest.
 
 The notification says, “Swachh Maharashtra (Urban) Mission was launched on May 15, 2015, on mission mode basis. Government is taking all efforts for effective implementation of the mission. Expected response is not being seen from some cities. Therefore, there was a need for introduction of some plans to expedite works under the mission,” the notification said.
 
 As reported by TOI on Tuesday, Nagpur   ( ) could achieve only around 25% garbage segregation at source level. As against generation of 1,200 metric tonne solid waste daily, the civic body is segregating only 290 metric tonne at source level.
 
 Going by past record, the target set by the government would be a distant dream for the civic body. The government had made garbage segregation mandatory at source level from May 1 last year. NMC had launched garbage segregation drive from June 5 last year, on the eve of World Environment Day. Target was to achieve 30% garbage segregation by the end of September 2017, and 100% within a year. Unfortunately, NMC could not achieve even target of 30% garbage segregation till date.
 
 As against requirement of 11 lakh dustbins, NMC had distributed only 10,000 among citizens. Also, the civic body miserably failed to spread awareness among the citizens about importance of garbage segregation.
 
 Deputy municipal commissioner   said it was an uphill task to ensure garbage segregation at all households in a prescribed time period. “We are exploring possibilities to achieve cent per cent success by December-end. We completed tendering process to procure 11 lakh dustbins so we can distribute them free to citizens. Meanwhile, the HC has directed NMC to give dustbins by charging some cost. Now there can be two options, whether to ask citizens to procure dustbins on their own or supply them at some charge. Standing committee will take a final decision,” he said.
 
 Another setback for NMC is that it has done nothing to encourage citizens to produce bio-organic fertilizer from segregated garbage at source level in these seven months.
 
 
