Mohali: A   court during a resumed hearing in   murder case issued directions to the Mohali police to produce the   car and the suitcase in court by next date without fail. The case was adjourned after   Dhillon recorded his statement in the court. The next hearing is slated for January 24.

  Kaur Dhillon is accused of allegedly transporting the dead body of her husband Aikom Singh Dhillon packed in a suitcase in this car. The vehicle used in the case is parked now parked at Mataur police station in Mohali. Sources in the police department said that the cops have not received summons from the court to produce the car.
 
  “I am not aware of the fact about the summons received or not. It has to be checked from SHO of Mataur police station,” said Mohali SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal. SHO Mataur inspector   did not respond to the phone calls made.
 
 The sources in the Mohali police said that the tyres of the car would be inflated and then transported to the court after being towed by an official crane. The crane driver would be a government employee. The condition of the case property is under green cover at the police station. The sources in the police department said that they have not touched the car and will only remove the wild growth before producing it in the court for identification.
 
 During all the previous hearings, the police had failed to produce the car in court for identification. The suitcase in which the body of Aikom was packed is also to be produced in court for identification.
 
 “We will be transporting the car to the court by getting it towed by a government-owned crane. The tyre’s of the car would be inflated before towing. Utmost care would be taken of the case property so that it does not get damaged during the transportation,” said a senior official of the Mohali police. 
 
 Meanwhile, during the recent court hearing in the case, Darshan Singh Dhillon, brother of victim Aikom Singh Dhillon faced humiliation at the hands of Seerat Kaur the prime accused of the case. Darshan said that Seerat had threatened him for deposing the case. Darshan in this regard has also filed a complaint with SSP Mohali.
 
 “Seerat has threatened me of dire consequences if the case is not deposed in full public view” Darshan said.
 
 
