CHANDIGARH: As the   ( ) is going through its worst-ever financial crunch, the   administration has asked the civic body to collect arrears pending from past many years, failing which strict action will be taken against the erring officers.

 
 The UT administration in its two-page letter to the MC has written that cumulative arrears have increased over the years, while the pace of recovery remained quite slow.
 
 The detailed letter states that the increase in the outstanding arrears is a result of inadequate attention being paid to the collection and monitoring of arrears by the officers. The UT has instructed the MC to regularly update the demand collection register at commissioner level.
 
 According to the sources in the administration, arrears amounting to Rs100 to 150 crore have not been recovered by the civic body and the sum has been pending from the past five to ten years.
 
 “If the MC makes sincere   to incur the pending arrears, it will be able to ease the on-going financial crunch to some extent. We are surprised as to why no initiative has been taken in the matter so far. Thus, now we have written to the civic body in this regard and directed the officials to do the needful. If the   fail to make efforts, stringent action will be taken against them,” said a source in the UT administration.
 
 The letter says, “The pace of recovery is very slow with reference to the mounting arrears. The increase in outstanding arrears is a result of inadequate attention being paid to the collection and monitoring of the funds by the assessing officers and tax recovery officers at the ward/circle level, as well as the supervising officers at the range level. Collection of arears should be accorded top priority by officers at all levels in the commercial tax department and all the cases should be followed up diligently and taken to a logical conclusion. It may be noted that in case of negligence or inaction the concerned officer will be held responsible for failure in collection of the arrears.”
 
 The UT has called for regular meetings between the finance secretary of the Chandigarh administration and   on the issue and the feedback of the same would be submitted to the UT every fortnight.
 
