CHANDIGARH: The   has made it clear that the case of pre-mature release of a life convict should be considered by the state government in view of the state’s policy that was in force at the time of the conviction.

 Justice   of the HC has passed these orders while disposing of a petition filed by life convict   of   who had completed around 23 years in jail in a murder and rape case and pleaded for pre-mature release as per the state’s policy.
 
 The state government in this case was pressing that the accused was awarded life imprisonment for heinous crime and life imprisonment mean imprisonment for rest of the life.
 
 Rejecting the state’s arguments, the HC observed that once the state government has taken a conscious policy decision in regard to pre-mature release of convicts who have been awarded imprisonment for life and further categorized offences, which fall in the category of heinous crimes for the purpose of pre-mature release, the state government is bound by its decision.
 
 “The policy as applicable pertaining to grant of premature release would be the policy that was in existence on the date of the conviction. In the instant case, the petitioner stood convicted by the sessions judge, Bathinda, on October 10, 1996 and, therefore, the policy as existing on July 8, 1991 is to be taken into consideration, while determining whether the petitioner is entitled to grant of premature release”, observed Justice Thakur in her recently released order.
 
 In his plea before the HC, the petitioner had argued that having undergone more than 23 years and five months of imprisonment, and including remissions, more than 31 years of sentence he would be entitled to premature release as he fulfilled all the conditions as per government Instructions issued on July 8, 1991.
 
 It was argued that his case was rejected by the government on September 17, 2015 on the ground that he had committed a heinous crime.
 
 Contesting the petition, the Punjab government submitted that the petitioner’s case was rejected on the ground that he has been convicted for a heinous crime. It was argued that any convict undergoing life imprisonment, as in the case of the petitioner, cannot claim premature release as a matter of right. It was submitted that if the convict was released prematurely or was granted interim bail, it would be against the principles of natural justice as the petitioner has committed the heinous crime of murdering a man and also committing a gang rape of three helpless women, kin of a deceased, one being a minor.
 
 Hearing both the parties, the HC has directed the state government to re-consider the petitioner’s case in light of the state’s policy and take a fresh decision regarding his pre-mature release within two months.
 
 The HC, however, made it clear that in case the state failed to decide the case within two months, the petitioner shall be released on parole.
 
 
