GURUGRAM: You would normally associate the undulating belt of Aravali hills that lies between Golf Course Road and Gurugram-Faridabad Road with luxury housing societies that dot its perimeter. So, the findings of a recent survey by the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) were both a cause for celebration and anxiety — the area, the survey found, had a wealth of   (71 bird species, 70 tree species and 36   species). But it also noted the pressure on this from increasing urbanisation of the region. 

 
 “This forest represents one of the last wild patches remaining between Delhi and Gurugram… The undisturbed habitat is home to most number of species of birds, butterflies and plants (among the areas surveyed),” states the study, titled ‘Biodiversity Mapping of DLF Magnolias and Adjoining Areas’, which was carried out between June and December 2017 by BNHS and DLF Foundation. The study area was divided into three parts — sanctuary park (residential areas, including Magnolias and Aralias); the golf course, and the   between Golf Course Road and Gurugram-Faridabad road. 
 
 The number of species inhabiting the natural habitats, the study found, was more than two other significant but manmade green belts — the sanctuary park and golf course. 
 
 The findings, experts said, underlined the need to immediately extend   to the semi-arid scrub forest area. “Of the three regions we studied, the Aravali forest is the undisturbed native patch, acting as a reservoir for most wildlife,” said Sohail Madan, one of the team leaders of the survey and centre manager of BNHS’ Conservation Education Centre (CEC). “Maximum diversity of flora and fauna is observed in this area, because it has been left to grow wild with minimum human intervention. It calls for an immediate need for its protection.” 
 
 Talking about the importance of rich biodiversity in this Aravalis belt for the city, Madan added, “The presence of diverse species of birds and butterflies is an indicator of a healthy ecosystem. Birds feed on butterflies. Therefore, when there is a high species   for butterflies and birds, it’s an indicator of a robust food chain. We’ve also noticed the presence of scavenging birds like common crow, Egyptian vulture, black kites, etc, which help reduce waste in the area and play a vital role in minimising risk of disease.”
 
 A total of 76 avian species, representing 36 families, were recorded in the three areas during the survey. Of these, five species were only sighted in the golf course area. The count for wild flowers and butterflies was 25 and 36, respectively. 
 
 Special sightings of the Steppe eagle (an endangered species on the IUCN Red List) and Alexandrine parakeet (a near-threatened species on the list) were also recorded, along with a high number of shikra (Accipter Badius), a pair of yellow-wattled lapwings (Vanellus Malabaricus) and yellow-footed green pigeons (Treron Phoenicoptera). In the butterfly survey, schedule 1 species of Danaid eggfly (Hypolimnas Misippus) were recorded. 
 
 Some migratory birds, including the spot-billed duck, Eurasian collared-dove, rosy starling, white wagtail, Eastern Steppe eagle and black redstart were also spotted. “Unfortunately, this area is now threatened by changes in land use, habitat fragmentation, urbanisation and its consequences, with the anticipated dangers of climate change looming in the background… A detailed biodiversity survey was proposed to be conducted to assess the floral and faunal diversity of the area, along with planting of native trees, promoting larval plants for butterflies and total reduction in use of herbicides and pesticides... Also, a biodiversity board should be set up,” the survey report suggested. 
 
 “It is imperative to take steps to protect the biodiversity of the area. The study conducted by DLF Foundation will go a long way in generating awareness on the need to protect biodiversity and habitats, besides identifying gaps in the process,” said Col Prakash Tewari, executive director, DLF Foundation. 
 
 
