NEW DELHI: Over a year after Delhi   personnel attacked   at   College, cops showed their violent streak yet again on Thursday afternoon when they assaulted shopkeepers and manhandled photojournalists during a sealing drive in Lajpat Nagar. One of the injured shopkeepers had to get multiple stitches on his head.

  
  
 
 
 Photographers from Navbharat Times and Dainik Jagran were dragged to the local police station like petty criminals where cops allegedly snatched their cameras and deleted photos of the violence done by a group of policemen led by an additional DCP and an ACP. The police brass said a probe has been initiated, but no action has been taken against the policemen yet.
 
  
  
 
 
 Around 3pm, when government officials were conducting the sealing drive in Lajpat Nagar-IV, the local shopkeepers started a protest. They tried to block the road following which the cops stopped them. An argument ensued during which additional DCP (southeast)   allegedly slapped a shopkeeper multiple times. Following this, his juniors also started hitting the shopkeepers to disperse them.
 
  
  
 
 Shopkeepers alleged that a lathicharge was also carried out due to which many protesters were injured and had to be admitted to AIIMS Trauma Center for treatment.
  
  
 
 
 
 Naveen Baweja, an injured shopkeeper whose garment shop was sealed, claimed that the argument erupted when the shopkeepers asked for the sealing order. “We’ve completed all the paperwork and submitted the conversion fees. However, the authorities came with a heavy police force and started sealing our shops,” he alleged.
  The journalists covering the incident were targeted next. Two photojournalists captured the alleged assault by additional DCP (southeast) Amit Sharma. The cops asked them to stop clicking photographs. When the two photojournalists refused to oblige, they were taken to a nearby police station and detained there.
 
 Vipin Sharma, the photojournalist working with Dainik Jagran, said, “Cops asked us to stop clicking photos when the violence broke out. Our cameras were returned only after ensuring that all photos have been deleted.” Another photographer, Sunil Kataria from Navbharat Times, was also detained at the police station and photos were deleted from his camera.
 
 “During today’s sealing, there were reports about highhanded behaviour by policemen against traders and mediapersons. We condemn this and it should not happen again,” said a statement from Delhi BJP.
  Delhi Congress chief Ajay Maken tweeted: “I am reaching AIIMS Trauma Centre in another 30 minutes to meet the injured in police lathicharge during sealing drive. Unprecedented situation in Delhi caused by irresponsible governments in the Centre and state.”
 
 Delhi Police spokesperson DCP Madhur Verma said that DCP (southeast) Chinmoy Biswal is inquiring into the incident.
 
 
