GREATER NOIDA: For the first time, this year’s   ( ) will see the participation of Jammu and Kashmir. The 45th edition of the fair will be held at   in   from February 23 to 27.

 “The five-day fair is a B2B (business to buyer) event with nearly 3,000 exhibitors that will aim at showcasing around 2,000 products across 14 categories, including home, lifestyle, fashion, textile, among others,” said Rakesh Kumar, executive director   (EPCH).
 
 EPCH is a nodal agency for promotion and development of the handicrafts sector and has been organising the event for the past 23 years.
 
 The fair will also look at developing patent rights to preserve design rights of participating artisans.
 
 It will also host buyers from over 103 countries as well as Indian states.
 
 The visitor profile to the show includes “Overseas buyers, wholesalers, distributors, chain stores, departmental stores, retailers, mail order companies, brand owners, buying houses and designers,” said Kumar.
 
 Prominent participating countries in the fair are the USA, the UK, Germany, France, China, Canada, the UAE and others. 
 
 Some Indian states from North East, Rajasthan and Jammu and Kashmir will be given a special theme to showcase their products.
 
 The fair will also hold seminars with subjects such as, how to export goods to China with specific reference to gifts, decoratives and houseware, positioning of handicraft from Jammu and Kashmir in domestic and overseas markets, goods and services tax, intellectual property rights, customs-trade partnership against terrorism (C-TAP), etc.
 
  Besides, fashion shows will also be held at the fair.
 
 “Buyers from across the globe prefer to visit the IHGF fair because Indian products have exquisite range, attractive prices, immense variety and distinct quality,” said O P  , chairman, EPCH.
 
 While handicraft exports during the year 2016-17 was Rs 24, 392.39 crore with overall 13.15 % increase as compared to last year, the exports during 10 months of the current financial year of 2017-18 stands at Rs 19,862.19 crore.
 
 
