In the latest episode of  , after Arohi gets a call from Ritu, she informs Niku that his mother is alive. She remembers all the old times they spent together and promises him that they will reunite with Ritu soon. She asks Chawanni to help her in finding Ritu's whereabouts.

 
 Tara (Arohi) comes to Virat's room and tells him that they should search for Vedika as she has been missing. She tells him that Vedika is Roma's daughter and asks him to search for proof.
 
 
  
 
 Deep asks Tara about a handkerchief he gave her some days ago and wonders where it could go. Virat goes to Roma and starts asking her questions about Vedika. Roma tells him that she was raped by a man when she was quite young and then a lady had tried to blackmail her. Virat asks her about the lady but Roma refuses to divulge more details.
 
 Deep meets Roma and tells her that he has made a plan to trap the real Arohi. Tara asks him what is the plan. Suddenly, Deep gets a call from Arohi, informing him about the handkerchief he was looking for. She says that she will ruin everything close to him. He is assured that it is Arohi who is standing in front of him and does not say anything further.
 
 Arohi meets Chawanni and Niku and says that she was worried for them. She promises to find Ritu.
 
 Roma returns to her room. Dileep and Prithvi see her. The latter asks her about Vedika but Roma says that she doesn't know anything. She also tells him about the lie she told Virat and asks him to be careful.
 
 Later in the night, as Deep goes somewhere, Arohi decides to follow him. She finds him entering Niku's room with a gun and gets scared. Deep points the gun at Niku. He says that he will help in catching Arohi red-handed and shoots him. Arohi wakes up and realises that she was seeing a bad dream.
 
 The next morning, as Deep wakes up, he gets a call from Arohi, who tells him that she feels sorry for falling in love with a man like him, who killed everyone from her family. Deep asks her to stop spreading lies about him and confesses he never loved her. 
 Arohi says that she tried to kill him a number of times but could not. Deep laughs and threatens to kill her any instant. Arohi challenges him to shoot her when they meet face to face. She tells him to reach a certain location where he will see her. 
 
 As Deep leaves, Arohi and Chawanni feel that their plan is working. Deep tells Roma that he will bring her enemy before the day ends.
 
 
