THANE:  , which has become an intercity expressway, though welcomed by motorists, is causing inconvenience to pedestrians as they are unable to cross the eight-lane road without pauses. In order to make it easier for citizens to cross the stretch, the Thane traffic department along with the civic body is planning to install eight traffic signals and  .

 A survey was conducted by the traffic department of the approximately 2km stretch and noticed that even though there were zebra crossings in some portions, the vehicles would speed and not allow pedestrians to cross. This caused a huge problem, especially to schoolchildren, who had to cross the road after school. 
 
 “Pedestrians were finding it difficult to cross the eight lanes, four on each side. To make sure that there are no accidents, we have installed signals at the junctions and even blinkers. The device will be put up at Vartak Nagar, Shastri Nagar, Samtanagar junction, Singhania school and Thirani school,” said Anil Mangale, inspector, traffic department.
 
 Officials stated that the blinkers are ideally put up to alert the vehicles to slow down but many are unaware about the rules. Also, during peak hours even constables will be stationed at the junctions. “The blinkers indicate that there is zebra crossing ahead and the motorist needs to slow down. A pedestrian walking near this device has a right to lift his/her hand to stop the vehicle and cross the road,” said a traffic official. 
 
 The locals from the area claimed that this was a much needed initiative as it is a task to cross the huge road without pausing. 
 
 Atul Ghangurde (58), a resident of   1, said, “Ever since the road widening work was completed, it has been difficult for pedestrians to cross the stretch as vehicles are always in speed. Many times it so happens that pedestrians have to cross the stretch in two phases as one cannot cross the entire four lane stretch at one go. Senior citizens and children may be facing even greater difficulty.” 
 
 
