CHENNAI: When the New-Delhi based   (DGHS) allots seats for students for various post-graduate medical degree seats across the country, medicos in the state will be left in a quandary -- they will not be able to decide if they should take the seat because students here are yet to know their state ranks.

 The deadline for submitting application for the   of the post graduate degree and diploma in medical courses ended on Monday. The selection committee officials received 9,848 applications. This year the state added 157 additional seats taking the total number of seats to 1,641 (1,250 degree and 396 diploma) in state-run medical colleges. The single window   for state medical colleges, self-financing colleges and Raja Muthiah Medical College will be done after surrendering 50% of the seats to the DGHS for admission through  .
 
 “We will be categorising applicants according to eligibility for incentive in the next two days. But we can’t release the merit list as we are yet to receive the state   from the National Board of Examinations, which conducted these tests,” said state selection committee secretary Dr G Selvarajan. The board conducted the NEET-PG 2018 last year and the results were declared in January, but the state has not received the rank list.
 
 Meanwhile, on Monday, at 5pm the directorate closed options for registration, exercising of choices and locking of choices for the All India quota. Many doctors have locked their choices and the allotment of first round will begin on Tuesday. Students will have to join the allotted colleges by April 3. “But most of our doctors are not aware of their status in the state. How will they be able to make an informed choice without this information?,” asks Doctors Association of Social Equality general secretary Dr G R Ravindranth.
 
 Although officials at the   said that they have written to the National Board of Examination, medical aspirants say that the state has badly let them down. “My first choice is radiology. I may not get the course in the first round in all India quota. I may be offered paediatrics but if I know my state rank, I will know whether to take or let go of what is offered. Although first round is not considered final, it will waste all our time and efforts,” said a student, on conditions of anonymity.
 
 
