AGRA: A 45-day old   from the   to the city of Nizam, Hyderabad, has been penalised for traveling without ticket in an express train. The Pakistani bully was fined Rs 575, including Rs 27.30 GST, by the railway train ticket examiner at Agra cantt.

 The matter came to light after the Government Railway Police (GRP) control room informed the Agra cantt GRP about a passenger, who was traveling along with the puppy in Dakshin Express pantry car. As soon the train reached Agra cantt on Saturday morning at around 2:15am, the cops detained the dog and its handler and informed the railway station authorities.
  
  
 According to police sources, the puppy was purchased from Haryana at a cost of Rs 33,000 by a Hyderabad-based real estate developer, but the puppy handler forgot to book it for train journey.
 
 Station officer Ashwani Kaushik of Agra cantt GRP said, “The handler of the dog was having general class ticket but had not booked the puppy. He was found traveling in pantry car. After proper enquiry, the puppy and its handler were let off, but the railway authorities penalised the puppy for traveling without ticket.”
 
 A railway source claimed, “An excess fare ticket receipt was issued of Rs 575 for the puppy. Since the handler had a general ticket, nothing was charged for him.”
 
 The source further claimed, “This was for the first time that a challan was issued for a pet.”
  
  
 
 
 Later the dog owner booked a berth in AC-I tire for the pet in  . Railway sources confirmed that in A2 coach, berth 21 was booked for the handler of the dog, so that he can carry Pakistani bully puppy in the premium coach.
 
 
 Divisional commercial manager of Agra division   said, “One has to book the pet while traveling in train. A pet can only be carried in AC first class that too with consent of fellow passengers, otherwise, the pet will be sent to train coach brake van.”
 
 
 He said, “If the passenger failed to book a pet for a train journey, he/she has to pay six time the amount of actual fare of booking. Since the fare of pet travel between Delhi to Agra is Rs 90, the train ticket examiner charged Rs 575 for  
 
 
 Dr L N Gupta, well know veterinary in Agra, said, “Pakistani bully dogs are not registered in Kennel Club of India and were brought illegally in the country via Indo-Pak border. They come from the bloodline of Afghan hound who were cross breed with feline for aggressive behaviour. Pakistani bully dogs are a dominating canine and only be handled by well-experienced owners.”
 
