While in Maharashtra   is about   dishes and haldi-kumkum ceremonies, the state of   has its unique tradition and delicacies associated with the festival. Though kite flying is central to the festivities, it is also a time when people in the state celebrate the fresh harvest used for preparing delicious savoury and sweet dishes. We take a closer look at Makar Sankranti celebrations in the city…

 
 
  will witness a large scale kite flying competition to mark Makar Sankranti festivities. Each year, over 500 youngsters gather at Naya Raipur ground to fly kites, and this is one sight to behold. “Patang utsav is a traditional   ritual during Uttarayan and is an important part of the celebrations. One of the main reasons is that as it is a time for thanksgiving and happiness, hence, kite flying is a symbol of reaching to the heavens. Makar Sankranti also heralds the change of season. The clear, blue skies and cool breeze are ideal to fly kites,” informs kite flyer Rohit Turrani, who brought home many medals in the sport.
 
 
 
 After Katrina Kaif sparkles, Kareena Kapoor Khan chakra and Deepika Padukone anar during Diwali, Raipur will fly Chhattisgarhi and Bollywood inspired kites today. Chholiwood and Bollywood are drawing a lot of attention in the kite market. From Baahubali posters to Chhattisgarhi films, these kites are all about representing the state’s culture. That apart, Shah Rukh Khan and Salman Khan too have made it to the prints. Talking about the price range of these Chhattisgarhi inspired kites, Imran Khan from Royal Kite Centre, Raipur says, “These kites range between Rs 8 and Rs 15, depending on their quality.” Shedding more light on consumers of Chhattisgarhi kites, Salim Quresi of King Kites says, “Kids and even youngsters are quite fond of them, apart from the cartoon inspired kites that are in demand. Also, Bollywood kites are creating a buzz.”
 
 
 
 Homes across Chhattisgarh will be filled the wafting aromas of the sweet and savoury dishes prepared from the fresh harvest. “Unlike Maharashtra, where tilgul is the key ingredient for making Makar Sankranti dishes, in Chhattisgarh, we prepare kheer using gur, sugarcane juice and wheat. Also, at home, we prepare paanch saag, which is a traditional Chhattisgarhi dish made during Makar Sankranti. We use all the fresh harvest produce like sarson, palak, methi, lal saag and pui saag (vine) to make the dish. This is eaten with makke ki roti,” says a home chef Sarita Ahuja. 
 
