CHENNAI: Safety of pedestrians on Theyagaraya Road is expected to improve markedly within the next 12 months as the   kickstarted work on the much-delayed   pedestrian plaza project on Monday.

 Minister for municipal administration and water supply   laid the ceremonial foundation stone for the Rs 33.80crore project. 
 
 Corporation officials said construction would be undertaken in three phases for the sake of work quality and to ensure minimal disruption to traffic flow. 
 
 "We expect to finish work on the project within the next one year," said Velumani.
 
 The project entails provision of a pedestrian friendly footpath on the 1.45km-long stretch of the Theyagaraya Road between Panagal Park and Anna Salai. 
 
 "The footpath's design will ensure a hassle-free wheelchair passage for the differently abled and senior citizens. Other components like street furniture, play area for children, greenery, smart toilets, ornamental street lights, fountains and statues will be included in the pedestrian plaza," said a corporation official.
 
 Once the   is set up, only MTC buses and two-wheelers will be allowed to ply on the stretch between Panagal Park and Thanikachalam Road junction. However, there will be no restriction on the type of vehicle on the remaining stretch of the Theyagaraya Road. 
 
 "There will be zebra crossings at regular intervals to facilitate pedestrian safety," the official added.
 
 The carriageway space between Panagal Park and Thanikachalam Road junction is to be reduced and maintained at 3.5 metre on either side. Here, the pedestrian walkway will be 10 to 12m wide. However, in the remaining portion of the Theyagaraya Road, the carriageway space will be maintained at 7.5 metre on either side, with improvement works on the existing footpath here set to increase its width to 3.5 metre, according to a corporation note.
 
 "For the convenience of senior citizens and disabled people, a battery-operated shuttle service will be stationed at frequent intervals on the pedestrian plaza," a corporation official said.
 
 After the foundation stone ceremony, Velumani remarked that replacing T Nagar's streetlights with LED bulbs had helped the corporation save on its electricity expenses. "We have refitted 1,772 streetlights in T Nagar with LED bulbs. We expect to save at least Rs 95 lakh on our electricity bills," said Velumani.
 
 The minister added that detailed project reports (DPR) on proposals worth Rs 293.26 crore under the Smart Cities Mission were under preparation. "These include proposed multilevel car parks on the Sivagnanam Road and the Utthamar Gandhi Salai. A proposal for integrated traffic management system worth Rs 369.92 crore is also in the DPR stage," he said.
 
