AMRITSAR:   jathedar Giani   has directed the suspended president of Chief Khalsa Diwan,   Singh  , to appear before the clerics on January 23 only after resigning from the primary membership of the Sikh institution.

 Talking to TOI on Friday, Jathedar Gurbachan Singh said Chadha should appear before the high priests like a humble Sikh and it would be better if he first resigned from the primary membership of the CKD since technically he continued to be its president.
 
 After an objectionable video of Chadha, along with a woman principle of one of the schools run under the management of the CKD went viral on the internet on the evening of December 26, 2017, CKD member Amarjit Singh Bhatia had approached the Akal Takht Jathedar seeking summoning of Chadha.
 
 This was followed by similar complaints with the Akal Takht secretariat. On December 28, 2017, Gurbachan Singh summoned Chadha to appear before the Sikh clergy.
 
 Earlier, Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president   had also sought similar action against Chadha as was taken in case of veteran Akali leader Sucha Singh Langah after his objectionable video went viral on the social media. The Sikh high priests had excommunicated Langah.
 
 Gurbachan Singh said there was much concern and worry in Panth about the alleged involvement of the head of the 115-year-old Sikh body in an objectionable act with a woman much younger to him. “This has happened in an organization which has over 95% women employees,” he said.
 
 “Charanjit should resign from the primary membership of the CKD and appear before Sikh clergy like a humble Sikh on January 23,” he said. At the same time, the Jathedar warned that in case Chadha ignored the Akal Takht’s directions then strict religious action could be taken against him.
 
 Meanwhile, CKD secretary M S Khurana said he had convened executive committee meeting on February 5, which would be followed by the general house meeting the next day. The executive body meeting has been convened with a single point agenda of contemplating on recommendations of CKD office bearers seeking suspension of Charanjit both from the presidentship as well as the membership of the body.
 
 
