Chandigarh: A residential-area park and a service lane behind a row of showrooms in Sector 22-C have gathered a lot of garbage. The entire park is littered but there’s excessive waste dumped along its edges and the rear walls of adjacent houses.

 The park swings are also dirty. The play equipment is covered in plastic waste, dead leaves, and overgrown weeds. A service land sandwiched between two rear walls is even dirtier. Both solid and liquid waste lies rotting there. Muck and pools of stagnant water are all over the floor. “The narrow service lanes are hidden from the public eye,” said a small food vendor seated close by. “They are seldom used by people to cross over to the other side or move supplies into the houses. Hence, sanitation becomes difficult in these underused places.”
 
 A picture of civic apathy, the park and has remained unclean for the past several months, according to the nearby residents. “We live close to the market, so the probability of garbage accumulation increases a lot. But, now we have reached a point where we cannot even use the park for anything. The ground is dirty and it stinks at times,” said Neelam Sharma, a nearby resident.
 
 Many other residents of the sector complained about the anti-social elements who drink alcohol and smoke joints in the obscured service lane. “Almost a week ago, we found broken beer bottles in the alley. Drug addicts might become our next big problem,” Neelam Sharma added. When confronted, P S Bhatti, medical officer health of the Municipal Corporation of Chandigarh, said: “I will look into the matter and take appropriate action.”
 
 The back alley has also become an ideal place for various stray animals to find refuge. Packs of stray dogs have started gathering in the slim space between two rear walls of houses, which has also caused people of the neighbourhood to feel a little scared. Most of these dogs are not vaccinated or sterilised.
 
 A large number of stray dogs taking refuge in this block are now started troubling the residents. Nearby resident Pankaj Chopra said: “A mere look at the park is enough to know that it must be a permanent home to these stray dogs.” 
 
 
