NEW DELHI: Chuffed at the seeming success of its crackdown on criminals, Uttar Pradesh (UP) police today patted itself on the back by tweeting a popular line of dialogue from the Hindi film ‘Dabangg’.

 
 The UP police’s crackdown in recent weeks has resulted in over a dozen encounters, which have led to arrests and some criminals being killed. And ever since, several   in the state have been turning themselves in to the police, for fear of being killed in such encounters.
 
 Along with the tweet captioned, “Police se nahi, Crime se darr lagta hai sahab”,   also shared a photo collage of these criminals who voluntarily surrendered.
 
 The tweet’s caption is a play on a piece of dialogue delivered by   in ‘Dabangg’: "Thappad se darr nahin lagta saahab, pyar se lagta hai". It means, “It’s not the slap I’m afraid of, it’s love I fear.”
 
 UP police’s tweets translates to, “It’s not the police I’m afraid of, it’s the crime I fear.”
 
  
  
 
 The tweet comes a day after reports of UP goons walking into police stations with placards in hand saying they will reform and not commit crimes again.
 
 “I will not get involved in any crime in future and will work hard to earn money through fair means. Please forgive us” read a placard held by Salim Ali and Irshad Ahmad, accused in several loot and murder cases.
 
 “We do not want to be hunted down like other criminals. We want to live peacefully with our families,” Salim said.
 
 A car thief, meanwhile, walked into a police station and pleaded he be arrested so he can get the Rs 15,000 cash award on his head
 
 The Opposition in the state though isn’t pleased with the way the UP police is conducting its crackdown. Leaders from the Samajwadi Party slammed UP chief minister Adityanath for “ordering” what they say are fake encounters.
 
 Yesterday, Adityanath accused the Opposition of sympathizing with criminals, and added that the police will continue with their crackdown using the same methods.
 
 “A total of 40 dreaded criminals have been gunned down in 1,200 encounters, and this will continue,” declared the UP CM in the state legislative council.
 
 
 
