VELLORE:   of untreated sludge and sediments of hazardous chemicals from collection tanks in tanneries and leather factories in   district has claimed the lives of 19 workers in the last seven years. 

 The   ( ) had prohibited manual cleaning of effluents and sludge three years ago, said office-bearers of tannery workers’ association. 
  
 
 A total of 19 people had died of   since April 30, 2010, in Vellore district. Except two, all of them died of asphyxiation when they were engaged in cleaning the collection tanks of sludge and untreated effluents, according to data available with TOI.
 
 Reliable sources in the TNPCB said that engaging workers to clean effluents or sludge in tanneries and leather factories is strictly prohibited. “When we give consent order to the factories, it will be clear that the unit should comply with the rules and regulations that emphasise on environment-friendly practices and safety of the workers. Anyone found violating the rules would lose their licence immediately,” said a TNPCB official.
 
 Though the rules and regulations carry a clear message, the enforcing agencies have failed to execute them, resulting in the death of daily wage labourers working in hazardous industries.
 
 Tuesday’s incident at Maruthi Leathers in Periyavarikam is a testimony to the failure of the government mechanism. Three workers – Selvam, 23, Kothandam, 30, and Ranganathan, 41 – of the factory had died of asphyxiation when they were engaged in manual cleaning of the collection tank of the  .
 
 The workers were not provided with any safety gear. Following the incident, the TNPCB followed its regular procedure of closing down the factory after receiving a recommendation from the district collector.
 
 The officials did the same – disconnecting power supply and shutting down the factory – seven years ago when five workers perished while cleaning a sludge tank at Gilani Leathers on Katcheri Road in Vaniyambadi. This happened on April 30, 2010. The five included three of a family.
 
 On April 3, 2011, three persons, including a 19-year-old teenager, died of asphyxiation when they were engaged in constructing a drain connecting a pipeline of common effluent treatment plant (CETP) at Manthangal in Ranipet. “Such deaths are happening often. We don’t know what the officials are doing to prevent such untimely deaths. The management of factories manages to hush up the affair by paying the affected families a few lakhs as compensation,” says N Sundar, general secretary of North Arcot district tannery workers’ union.
 
 He recollected that three workers were killed in 1998 when cleaning the sub-tank of an Ambur CETP (now defunct), while two others met a similar fate in Maligathoppu sector of Ambur CETP on February 8, 2010. “Several deaths of workers have also gone unreported. Exploiting the poverty and ignorance of the victims’ families, the owners cover up the deaths and get away with murder,” he said, alleging that the death of a worker in an accident in a leather factory at Ranipet eight months was a cover-up.
 
 Calling the death due to asphyxiation is “avoidable”, says honorary secretary of Ambur Tanneries Association S Faiyaz Ahmed. “If standard operating procedures are followed, such deaths can be easily avoided.”
 
 Though majority of the units in the leather sector have moved away from such manual cleaning of the effluents and sludge, a few units are still continuing the practice, he says, adding, “It has resulted in the deaths of workers, especially the one happened recently here.”
 
 Also, on January 31, 2015, 10 workers were buried alive when a poorly constructed sludge tank caved in at SIPCOT Ranipet. This speaks volumes of workers’ safety being compromised. 
 
 
