VADODARA: New Delhi is often labelled as the   given the poor   there. But when it comes to following  , 95%   in the national capital are obedient.

 In stark contrast,  , often touted as one of the safest states, 83% of people brazenly violate traffic rules. And, when it comes to wearing helmets, Gujaratis are only burying their heads in the sand.
 
 This has been revealed in a traffic rules enforcement survey carried out by Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System (DIMTS), an urban transport and infrastructure development company and a joint venture between the government of National Capital Territory of Delhi and the IDFC Foundation.
 
 In 2016, 8,136 Gujaratis lost their lives in road accidents, many of the fatalities being a result of the victims not wearing helmets or seat belts. Rajkot fared the worst among the four major cities with 97% of the commuters refusing to put on the helmets. Sanskarinagari Vadodara was close behind with 91% flouting the rule. In all four cities, the non-compliance to seatbelt rule was over 90%.
 
 Taking a serious note of the findings, Vipul Vijoy, additional DGP, state traffic branch, has shot off letters to all police commissioners and district superintendents of police, asking them to submit their traffic regulation plans by March 2018. Vijoy has sought information regarding vacant posts in traffic police, requirement of staff, number of black spots and how many have been removed, number of CCTVs and speed guns.
 
 ‘ Majority of riders don’t wear helmets citing heat’
 
 The findings were discussed at a meeting that was attended by principal secretary, transport, Vipul Mittra and National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) officials in November. The survey was done three months prior to November.
 
 “DIMTS conducts periodic sample survey in all states regarding traffic enforcement. It was found that in Gujarat majority of twowheeler commuters don’t wear helmets.
 
 Many don’t wear helmets in cities citing heat and sweating. To improve traffic rules’ compliance, we have prepared a short film on traffic awareness that is being shown in multiplexes in Gujarat along with jingles played on FM radio stations,” Mittra told TOI.
 
 “The number of accidents on highways is usually high. So, we have installed speed governors in 75,000 heavy vehicles and reflector tapes in 50,000 big vehicles in last few months,” Mittra said.
 
 In fact, Mittra said that the number of fatalities on roads in Gujarat have gone down 18% from 6,168 between January and September 2016 to 5,393 in the same period last year.
 
 Joint police commissioner, K G Bhaati, said, “We will soon be starting a drive to enforce helmet and seatbelt rule in Vadodara.”
 
