MUMBAI: An astounding 1.62 lakh undelivered and unclaimed consignments are awaiting collection by their owners at the postal department. Some of these parcels that contain items like cellphones, cameras, watches and stationeries are set to go under the hammer soon.

 According to the figures obtained from the   (RLO) at the GPO, 1.57 lakh registered and speed-post packets are lying unclaimed since five years, while 5,716 parcels are yet to be collected.
 
 In these five years, 50 lakh ordinary letters, which could not be delivered for want of proper address, were disposed of at the post office as these did not have any monetary value.
 
 “We last held an auction of some items on May 19, 2015, that fetched us Rs 54,059. Last year, we invited tender for auctioning these unclaimed items, but bidders did not turn up and we had to forfeit the deposit money,” an official said, adding that a fresh round of tendering is under way for the auction.
 
 According to Rule 435 of the Postal and  , if parcels or articles remain unclaimed, these should be auctioned. The postal department takes periodical action for tendering.
 
 H C  , chief post master general ( ) of   and Goa circle, said that before articles land at RLO, the staffers make all out efforts to deliver them.
 
 “We must understand that these undelivered articles or parcels land at the RLO only when the addresses of both the sender and the recipient are found to be inconclusive by the postmen. Even after the letters and the parcels land at the RLO, our employees, who are authorised to open these, try to find the addresses of either the sender or the recipient. When these are not found inside the articles too, then finally they go under the hammer,” he said.
 
 “Even now, if rightful owners approach us, we will hand over the articles to them, after proper verification,” he said.
 
 “We provide a window period to the rightful claimants to come forward and claim the unattended articles. If the items still remain unclaimed, then these articles across all the post offices are dispatched here (GPO) and are auctioned under the prescribed rules,” said an official in-charge of the RLO.
 
 The auction process begins with advertisements in local newspapers about all details of the articles.
 
 The RLO official said that before going for the auction, a committee is formed which appoints an auctioneer from outside. The auctioneer then fixes the quotation and auctioning process takes place in a transparent manner, he said.
 
