GUNTUR: In a move that has added to the   over   of   damaged due to the ongoing   (UGD) works, the  , which is the contractor, is contemplating to exit from the entire project. 

 Sources said the company, which has completed about 30-35% of the UGD work, is said to have informed authorities that it is ready to forgo the amount earmarked for road construction project. Shapoorji Pallonji is believed to have decided to withdraw following series of controversies created by public representatives, the engineering wings of Roads and Buildings (R&B) department, and the Guntur Municipal Corporation (GMC).
 
 The issue took a serious turn a few days ago after the R&B wing refused to give permission to workers of Shapoorji and Pallonji to dig out roads without paying caution deposit towards road restoration work. 
 
 The R&B officials are worried that it would be difficult to reconstruct the roads if the UGD contractor left the scene soon after completing its core work of laying underground pipelines and construction of sewage treatment plants (STPs). The R&B officials insisted that the company pay the caution deposit towards road restoration work even before digging out their road network in the city.
 
 As per the agreement between Shapoorji Pallonji and the public health department, the nodal agency to implement the UGD work, the company should restore all the CC and BT roads in the city that were dug out for the project. The project was handed over to the company at a cost of Rs 960 crore.
 
 Interestingly, the tender agreement prescribed just around Rs 62 crore for restoration of all the roads in the city, including the roads owned by R&B and the GMC. Sources said the contractor realised that it would be difficult to restore about 900-km long road with just Rs 62 crore, and hence it is planning to exit. 
 
 “The R&B and other government agencies are asking us to pay the caution deposit even before we complete 40% of the project. Instead of paying them caution deposit, we are ready to transfer the entire road restoration package if the agencies are willing,” a senior official of Shapoorji and Pallonji told TOI.
 
 Sources said the state government had approved just Rs 58 crore for the road restoration package, even while the estimated cost was Rs 62 crore. A senior engineering official in GMC said that it might require at least Rs 110-Rs 120 crore to completely restore the roads that were   by the UGD work. 
 
 In fact, it might take a decade for the engineering agencies to restore all the roads as it not only involves huge amount of money, but also require massive field staff to execute and monitor the work.
 
 
