GOLD COAST: India’s   advanced to the semi-finals in the men’s   event as action began in the XXI   here on Thursday. Also progressing was  , who clicked a timing of 56.71 seconds in his 100m backstroke heat to finish fifth in it. Nataraj's timing is a new national record.

 
 
 
 Khade, who competed in heat 5, along with team-mate  , overcame a slow start in lane 6 to finish fifth clocking 24.52 seconds. South African Ryan Coetzee, who swam next to the Indian, topped the heat clocking 23.94. The Maharashtra swimmer, making his international comeback after a long sabbatical, made a strong finish to pip Prakash who failed to capitalize on his flashy start.
 
 
 
 In the end, Khade’s timing was good enough to secure his place in the top 16 swimmers who advanced to semi-finals from a total of 56 who competed across seven heats.
 
 Khade was placed 13th in the semi-finalists list which was topped by World Champion South African swimmer Chad le Clos who clocked an effortless 23.53 seconds. Coetzee was third-fastest behind   of Trinidad and Tobago who topped heat 6 in 23.62 seconds.
 
 "I’m confident of making the final as I can go much faster in the semis in the evening. It would be a different in the semis as we have the extra motivation of making the final. If I can manage my best time of 24.10 seconds I should be in the final,” Khade told 
  at the Optus Aquatic Centre. “I’m still not able to improve my start. Because of that I’m losing around 0.5 seconds. I’m able to power through to the finish but I need to improve my start which was my focus during the training. I was swimming between two great swimmers, Close and Tandy Bradley, who was in the Rio Olympics final, and it was great to compete against them."
 
 Prakash, who finished 21st overall, was not disappointed with his effort and said he only wanted check himself out ahead of his main event, the 200m butterfly scheduled on April 7. “This was like my preparation for my main events. I just wanted to check it out today as my focus is on the 200m butterfly. I’ll also be competing in the 100m fly,” he said.
 
 The men's 50m butterfly semi-finals will be held at 8.52 pm local time (4.22 pm IST).
 
