Coimbatore: The government machinery has intensified measures to prevent Nipah virus from entering Coimbatore which shares border with Kerala and have stopped inter-state movement of livestock. The animal husbandry department has stopped the movements of domestic animals, especially pigs between the states and 12 Rapid Response Teams (RRTs) were put in place to, constantly, check the conditions of the animals. So far no one has been reported with Nipha symptoms in Coimbatore. As one of the preventive measures to prevent Nipha virus entering the district, the officials from the health department have directed the doctors to treat all those patients who are with symptoms of infections with highest priority. “We have directed private doctors and doctors from the Indian Medical Association (IMA) to alert the department, immediately, whenever patients with multiple symptoms visit their hospitals,” said PG Banumathi, deputy director (DD) of health services. The blood samples of the patients should be sent only to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune and Manipal institutions for testing, she said. The private hospitals should send the samples for testing only through the health department. Stating that the virus is highly contagious, she said that the bio-safety level is high only in these two institutions.  “We have been screening all those travelers for the symptoms of infection at the Coimbatore International Airport,” said an official, who attended a meeting on Friday to intensify the preventive measures. Till date, no infectious symptoms were recorded both in human beings and in animals, the official said. It was advised to keep the commuters from regions of Kerala under observation. While instructions were given to reduce frequent travels to the infected areas, the animal husbandry department have stopped the movements of animals especially pigs between the states. A total of 3,948 pigs are there in the district, according to a 2011 census. All the pigs belong to organized farms, an official from animal husbandry said. Bleaching power would be sprayed in these farms.  Pig is the reservoir for the disease and it could be transmitted to both the domestic animals and human beings, the official said.  To monitor the movements of pigs, Rapid Response Teams (RRTs) were put to action in 12 places across the district. Each team comprising of four officials including a veterinary doctor and life stock inspector, the official said that the team would be put in action whenever the instances of animals suffering from flu are reported.