KOLKATA: Traffic movement in Park Street was disrupted on Tuesday morning when around 200 guardians demonstrated — twice for 10 minutes each — outside   protesting the 31% fee hike, which the institution justified as a once-in-three-year effort for the school’s overall development.

 The state government, the school education boards and even the Church have been insisting on several infrastructural upgrades in schools to preempt rising complaints of sexual abuse within school compounds.
 
 Guardians alleged the school authorities had hiked the fees by around 34% along with a 35% hike under “development fees” section. “The school can’t increase the fee by such a high margin without any prior intimation. We met the principal and asked to review the fee structure. We will have another meeting with the school on Thursday,” said the father of a Class-II student. The guardians of both junior and senior sections gathered outside the school around 11.30am on Tuesday and demanded to meet the principal after the new fee structure was published last week.
 
 “My son is in Class II. Now he will have to pay a monthly fee of Rs 3,600, while the fee was Rs 2,700 earlier. Further, we now have to pay Rs 14,100 at the time of admission. It was Rs 10,500 till last year,” said Kaushik Karmakar, a   resident.
 
 “We hike fee every three years. We have hiked it by 31% this time. There is a misunderstanding on the fee somehow. Till now this was the norm. I don’t know why the parents are alleging we increase the fee every year,” said school principal Victor Singh. “The parents are complaining about inconvenience regarding shifting of bank and the procedure in which it is to be deposited. The options are not too heartily accepted. Parents will be giving a representation to me which I’ll forward to the managing committee,” he added.
 
 While on one hand the schools have been asked to upgrade security parameters, like installing CCTV cameras, the state government has also indicated it will roll out a suggested fee structure for schools affiliated to CISCE, CBSE and WBBSE from this academic session. The proposals drafted by the self-regulatory commission — comprising representatives from the school education department — will be placed before chief minister Mamata Banerjee by the end of April and could be ready by May-June.
 
 The guardians on Tuesday held a meeting among themselves after meeting the principal. They selected five persons among themselves who will meet the principal and submit a letter on behalf of the guardians on Thursday. “We will propose them a 10% hike in monthly fees under the sections of tuition fees, cocurricular fees, electrical apparatus maintenance fees, games fee and computer and laboratory fee every year. Under the yearly fees, comprising session fee, development fee, diary, stationary and craft fee, we are proposing a hike of 10% in every three years,” said Vikas Agarwal, who has two children in both senior and junior sections.
 
 
 
 
