NEW DELHI: The   ( ) is responsible for “policies that destroyed the privacy of a billion Indians”, American whistleblower-in-exile   said on Tuesday.

 “The journalists exposing the #Aadhaar breach deserve an award, not an investigation. If the government were truly concerned for justice, they would be reforming the policies that destroyed the privacy of a billion Indians,” Snowden tweeted.
 
 “Want to arrest those responsible? They are called @UIDAI,” Snowden tweeted in the wee hours of Tuesday morning, India time. “Edward Snowden” was trending on Twitter in India by Tuesday afternoon.
 
  
  
 
 Snowden was responding to reports of UIDAI having filed an FIR in the case of a breach revealed by The   newspaper last week. This is the privacy hawk’s second tweet in four days on the biometric identity system.
 
 Snowden’s latest volley comes after his tweet last Friday, where he said, “It is the natural tendency of government to desire perfect records of private lives. History shows that no matter the laws, the result is abuse.”
 
 American whistleblower Edward Snowden’s tweet directly naming UIDAI had nearly 4,600 retweets and 5,000 likes by 2.15pm on Tuesday.
 
 On Sunday, UIDAI had filed an FIR with the Delhi Police cyber cell, naming ‘The Tribune’ and its journalist for the daily’s story demonstrating how admin access to   data could be bought for as little as Rs 500.
 
 However, UIDAI said, its “act of filing an FIR with full details of the incident should not be viewed as UIDAI targeting the media or the whistleblowers or ‘shooting the messenger’.”
 
 In June 2013, Snowden blew the whistle on a large-scale global surveillance programme run by the US government. Indian missions in the US were also revealed to have been snooped on as part of the programme that sent shockwaves through the international community when it came to light. The 34-year-old has been living in Moscow on asylum since the 2013 revelations. Last year, Russia extended his asylum until 2020.
 
