Vadodara: A day after an FIR for cheating was registered against builder Rajeev Sheth , another similar case of he allegedly defrauding former employee Sanjay Bhowmik of Rs 21 lakh has come to light.

 Bhowmik had approached the police in 2015 about the cheating that happened in 2012 but the then senior police officials sat on Bhowmik’s complaint along with the evidences and never registered an FIR against Sheth.
 
 Bhowmik and his wife Geeta had purchased a property in Saiyed Vasna from Sheth in August 2012 for Rs 21 lakh. A month later Sheth got the bill of sale with Bhowmik and power of attorney of the property registered at the registrar’s offices in Gorwa and Akota respectively. However the sale deed was not done and the possession was not given to Bhowmik. When Bhowmik asked Sheth for sale deed and possession of the property, he was denied.
 
 In March 2015, Bhowmik learnt through an advertisement in a local newspaper about his apartment being sold to some other person. He then submitted 10 applications to collector office and Gotri police station for action against Sheth. On the basis of his applications, then police inspector of Gotri police station V V Vispute submitted a 424-page report to then joint commissioner of police D J Patel and asked for his permission to register an FIR against Sheth.
 
 However, the permission never came after which Bhowmick sent nine applications to Patel between July 2015 and November 2015 and 19 emails to Patel’s official email address for response to Vispute’s report. But, still he did not receive any reply from Patel, who retired from service in February last year. Meanwhile, Vispute was also transferred and three police inspectors came after him at Gotri police station.
 
 Tired of lethargic attitude of the police here, Bhowmik finally wrote a letter to Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), which asked for a reply from current commissioner of police Manoj Sashidhar. He, in his reply to the section officer of PMO in July last year, informed that the police department is conducting investigation in Bhowmik’s application. However, till date, the FIR has not registered.
 
 On February 20, the Gotri police registered complaint against Sheth after another victim Lilabati Sinha approached the High Court and it directed the cops to register the FIR. On Thursday, the investigating officer went to Sheth’s house to arrest him, but he was not found there.
 
 TOI tried to contact Sheth on his mobile phone but was out of coverage.
 
 
