LUCKNOW:  's defeat in   and Noorpur, coming just two months after the shocking debacle in   and Phulpur   bypolls, has brought ominous signs for the ruling party which had romped home with a thumping majority in UP just 14 months ago. 

 With Thursday's defeat, BJP has lost in all three major regions of UP in the past two months - in east (Gorakhpur), central (Phulpur) and west (Kairana and Noorpur). The twin defeats once again underline the challenge BJP faces in the state which was so crucial for its victory in 2014. Loss of Kairana signals that a united opposition can bring down BJP's Lok Sabha tally substantially from 71 it notched in 2014.
 
 Besides Kairana, Noorpur specially accentuates how the opposition unity has come into play. The bypoll was necessitated by the death of BJP MLA  , whose widow Avani Singh was fielded by the party. She polled 89,000 votes, about 10,000 more than her husband, but lost to the SP candidate by nearly 5,600 votes as there was no division of opposition votes.
 
 In Kairana, too, BJP nominee Mriganka Singh polled more than 4.36 lakh votes in a low turnout contest, but failed to get past RLD's Tabassum Hassan, who was backed by SP and   with a tacit support from BSP. In 2014, Mriganka's father Hukum Singh, who had been an eight-time MLA from Kairana, won the Lok Sabha seat by a margin of 2.36 lakh votes thanks to a division of opposition votes between SP, BSP and RLD.
 
 
 
 
 While Opposition unity was an overwhelming reason for BJP’s defeat, factors like sugarcane farmers’ anger due to non-payment of dues, rising fuel prices and disenchantment among Dalits due to frequent caste riots in western UP, too, had a role to play. Besides, Muslims, who form about 40% of electorate in both Kairana and Noorpur, voted en mass for the joint opposition candidates.
 
 BJP’s landslide win in western UP in both 2014 Lok Sabha and 2017 assembly polls was largely attributed to a sharp communal polarisation which saw a substantial chunk of Dalits voting along with influential Jats in favour of the saffron party. This caste realignment and a three-way division of anti-BJP votes in most places paved the way for a thumping victory for BJP. However, this time issues like row over Mohammad Ali Jinnah’s portrait at AMU failed to cut much ice among the Hindus. Rather, with dues to cane farmers rising up to Rs 13,000 crore, ‘ganna’ (sugarcane) factor proved much more potent in uniting cultivators of all faiths against the BJP government, which probably failed to gauge the resentment at the grassroots level.
 
 Back-to-back defeats has also dented the reputation of Yogi Adityanath as the CM. He has been hailed as a star campaigner outside UP, but has so far failed to deliver on the home turf. Besides, his intent for development notwithstanding, results are yet to be seen on the ground. With the big battle of 2019 now less than a year away, BJP will have to draw an out-of-thebox strategy to take on a combined opposition. The Yogi government will also have to ensure that the impact of its promises and announcements is seen on the ground.
 
 One silver line for the party, however, is the fact that the results also show that BJP, which lagged SP and BSP for more than a decade, has consolidated its position as the strongest force in the state: Not a small feat in this age of volatile expectations and considering that it is four years since the Modi government took office and the saffron surge which propelled Yogi to power last year has, predictably, waned.
 
 Kairana is a unique case, marking a very adverse political geography for BJP. Muslims account for nearly 40% of the electorate in the communally sensitive constituency which also has a sizeable concentration of Jatavs, the formidable Dalit caste which remains opposed to BJP. With Jats, about 40% of whom are still enamoured of Chaudhary Charan Singh's legacy, also having a significant presence and because of the coming together of Congress, SP, BSP, RLD, Kairana bypoll represented. From BJP's point of view, this was a confluence of worst possible factors.
 
 While the result has underlined the potency of the threat the BJP faces from a "united opposition", it also suggests that the failure to achieve perfect unity (Congress prevailed upon an influential Lok Dal Muslim candidate who had polled 1.60 lak votes in 2014, to withdraw from the arena) may help BJP to squeak in. Especially because in 2019, Modi himself will be in the fray.
 
 
