KOLKATA: Viaduct construction for the   corridor on two stretches of the airport-bound road from   is stuck due to alleged police reluctance to divert traffic. Bidhannagar police, though, said RVNL cannot have access to both flanks of the road at the same time.

 
  (RVNL), the implementing agency of the 34km Metro corridor project, has been asking Bidhannagar police for two years to free up the site for construction of piers 326 to 331 near the Chingrighata flyover, and near Nicco Park for segment building from piers 377 to 383.
 
 Ironically, it was the cops who sat with RVNL to draw up the traffic diversion plans for the two stretches. There had been several meetings and exchange of letters in this regard since April 8, 2015. “When it came to implementation of the diversions, Bidhannagar Police always came up with some excuse to put the traffic diversions on hold,” an RVNL official said.
 
 He added, “Non availability of the sites is significantly affecting the project and causing huge liability in terms of claims by the contractor because the machineries are lying idle This is leading to significant time and cost overruns.”
 
 The official said the sites were jointly inspected by RVNL authorities and officers of   several times. “The threephased traffic diversion plan along with estimated duration have been repeatedly submitted to Bidhannagar commissionerate, but nothing has happened,” he said.
 
 In their letter on April 9, 2018 to the Bidhannagar commissioner, RVNL authorities mentioned the traffic diversion plan under his jurisdiction for viaduct work, citing similar missives dated July 13, 2017, May 22, 2017, August 25, 2017 and the various meetings chaired by the commissioner for the viaduct construction.
 
 The letter stated, “Hindrances such as Fifa world cup and book fair were overcome long ago and, as instructed, we waited for long and still have not received the site till date. You are requested to consider the above traffic diversions urgently now and allow us to achieve some progress in construction on the stretches mentioned here.”
 
 “Among the three blocks that Metro wants, the most challenging one is the construction of pier 326 that is just metres away from the spot where Sector V vehicles get off the Chingrighata flyover. Time and again, we have asked Metro authorities to remove the blockades on the other flank so that we can increase the road width at this point and channel vehicles towards Nicco Park without disrupting traffic. But the deadlines have been breached by the construction agency,” an officer of Bidhannagar police said.
 
 “We are not going to divert vehicles through Aranya Bhavan and Salt Lake stadium. Rerouting them through Karunamoyee will only add to the chaos. We might think of separate plans for buses if required,” a top Bidhannagar commissionerate officer said.
 
 
