Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation is set to take action against the Young Men’s Christian Association Club (YMCA) in Civil Lines for renting out its open space for the construction of a restaurant.  Records with the NMC town planning department show that the club falls under ‘public and semi-public zone’ in the city’s developmental plan. And, as per the city’s development control regulations (DCR), restaurants are not permitted in such zones. Only small hotels or a canteen can be operated for the members of the club.  Assistant commissioner Mahesh Moroney said no sanction had been taken from the NMC for the construction of the restaurant. “A notice under the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning (MRTP) Act will be issued to the YMCA and action taken after that,” he said. According to sources, a kitchen has been constructed and sheds erected at two locations ostensibly for seating purposes. There are no visible fire preventive and safety systems in place. The premises doesn’t even have enough parking space. Teams from fire and emergency services department and Dharampeth Zone office inspected the restaurant on Monday. Chief fire officer Rajendra Uchake said his office had not issued the mandatory ‘no objection certificate’. “Any restaurant/hotel/eatery with height of 15 metres and in space of 150 sq mt requires an NOC from the fire department. These types of establishments cannot be constructed and opened without installation of systems suggested in the NOC. We will again inspect and take action,” he said. YMCA general secretary Niraj Singh said all procedures will be followed to operate the restaurant. “No building has been constructed at the spot. We will proceed as per norms,” he said. TOI was alerted about the construction of the restaurant in August last year by a YMCA member who sent photographs of chopped down trees and cleaning and construction activities. All the pictures were sent to Dharampeth Zone officials for verification but they took no action five months ago. The restaurant is also likely to cause traffic congestion in the area. Two roads near the YMCA are of less than nine-metre width. Both already witness heavy traffic. The office of DCP Traffic is also located close to the club.