HYDERABAD: With the new academic session set to commence in less than two weeks, several proposals to revise the curriculum for state board schools by the   ( ) seem to have fallen flat.

 
 From road safety to cyber security training, proposals were floated by various government departments last year to introduce them as part of the curriculum. Yet, weeks ahead of the new session, none of the proposals have still seen the light of the day.
 
 
  
 
 School managements claim there is little effort being made by the SCERT to revise the curriculum. “While a minor part of fire safety and road safety is introduced in Class 3 in social studies, there is not much weightage given to these topics. While the curriculum stands unchanged for nearly a decade, the SCERT has miserably failed to add new technologies and concepts in the textbooks,” said S Madhusudan, president of  .
 
 To check the ever increasing road accidents, the Telangana police in April last year had proposed the introduction of road safety as a subject from Class 1 to 10 to promote safety aspects among students.
 
 In August, the state government had proposed to introduce cyber security training for Class 9 and 10 students to make them well versed with the operations. Subsequently, in November, the   and Fire Services Department had sent a proposal to the school education department to include fire safety as part of the curriculum for Class 3 and Class 8 students.
 
 However, all proposals seem to have failed to impress the SCERT officials with none of them making it to the textbooks for 2018-19.
 
 The SCERT officials claim that such proposals are only taken up on merit basis. “The curriculum is changed only once in eight to 10 years. We receive such proposals from government departments every year. They are placed before the editorial board and are added in the curriculum only after thorough deliberations,” said Seshu Kumari, SCERT director, further adding that the textbooks are reexamined every year only for errors.
 
 
