The   play their first match at their new 'home ground' at Pune. What a sad situation for the gentle cricket lovers of Chennai. They had been deprived of watching their favourite team for two years and then their appetite was whetted when the Chennai Super Kings returned to the Chidambaram stadium and won their first encounter. 

 
 
 
 
 
 Unfortunately we in India are masters at pulling down our best, be it individual champions or competitions and the IPL which is rated among the top five leagues in the world becomes a favourite target for those with agendas which have nothing to do with sport. Even more sadly the law and order machinery does nothing but succumb to such wanton pressures and so the lovely people of Chennai, the best and knowledgeable cricket lovers in my experience will have to be satisfied watching their heroes on television. It will be interesting to see if taking the IPL away from Chennai works for those who wanted it that way and even more so if any new movies or wedding or any other celebrations will be allowed or stopped for their cause.
 
 
  
  
 
 What won't be stopped is the Chennai team's determination to win the trophy again. That was epitomised by their skipper   playing a rousing innings despite a severe back injury. Chennai will be hoping that the intervening days since that injury will have worked in his favour and he will take the field and lead them against a team that has played some superb cricket but also some ordinary stuff. 
 
 In any team, there are a couple of players who have the special ability to make an impact and Rajasthan have in Ben Stokes a player who can change the game with bat and ball and take some superhuman catches too. He is such a riveting player to watch and is sheer 'box office'.   is not too far behind though the slower bowlers and the slower pitches haven't quite suited him as yet. Then there is  . When a player who can hit the ball 360 degrees like AB de Villiers reckons that there is no limit to Samson's talent that is the ultimate compliment. Samson will have to be consistent across all formats for him to join AB de Villiers as one of the all time greats in the game and his swashbuckling but technically correct knock in front of the Indian skipper has done his chances of getting the India cap no harm at all.
 
 Pune's pitch is generally good for batting as the ball comes nicely on to the bat but the question is did they get enough time to prepare the pitch.
 
