CHANDIGARH: Stating that the circle style   World Cup being organized by the previous SAD-BJP government was Akali Dal’s personal event, newly-inducted   sports and youth affairs minister Rana Gurmeet Singh   said the Congress government would not continue with it.

 The much-hyped circle style Kabaddi world cup was the brain child of former deputy chief minister and SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal. The first circle style Kabaddi world cup was organized in Punjab in 2011 and was discontinued last year after the Congress came to power.
 
 On his first working day after taking over as the state sports minister, Sodhi said, “Akali Dal in Punjab had started the Punjab World Cup Kabaddi (circle style) with the thought that it is their personal event. However, from the Punjab government’s sports department, there is no such event.” He said circle style Kabaddi has nothing to do with Punjab government’s sports calendar like other games for which the state trained its players.
 
 However, he added, Kabaddi was a game of Punjab. The Congress government would definitely promote the national style Kabaddi, which was being played up to the Asian Games level, by providing adequate training to the budding players, said Sodhi, who has remained five-time national champion in trap shooting. Sodhi had also participated in the 1978 Asian Games in Bangkok and 1978 Commonwealth Games in Montreal.
 
 Setting out his priority, the four-time Guruharsahai MLA said the Congress government was going to set up a sports university at Patiala and funds were being released for the project. “We would try our best to at least start 2-3 courses this year itself,” he added.
 
 He agreed neighbouring Haryana’s players performed much better than their counterparts in Punjab at the Gold Coast Commonwealth Games in Australia. “The main reason is that our players have not been provided proper training in the last 10 years and we cannot expect best performance from them.”
 
 He added Haryana had been training its players in a professional manner. The sports minister said the Congress government had been in power just for the last 13 months which was a very short span to train an international player. “Players need constant training since the sports have become very technical and professional today,” said Sodhi, committing to impart technical and systematic training to the sports persons.
 
 
