Bathinda: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Bathinda municipal corporation to submit a comprehensive compliance report on collection and transportation of solid waste to the waste management plant from May 1 within next three days. Jindal infrastructure Transportation and Fabrication (JITF) company, which was collecting and transporting the solid waste, had in January expressed its inability to continue working after April 30.

 During a hearing of the matter on March 19, NGT had directed the Bathinda civic body to provide compliance report by April 3 or face a fine of Rs 50,000. Bathind MC submitted the report on Tuesday.
 
 However, finding some shortcomings, the tribunal has directed it to prepare a comprehensive compliance report in a format mentioning every head and clause and submit it on the next date of hearing on April 6. The MC has also filed a review petition, asking NGT to direct the private player to honour the written agreement about collection of solid waste, which was till 2036. 
 
 JITF is in a dispute with Bathinda civic body over tipping fee for collecting and transporting solid waste to the plant. It alleges that the municipal body owes it Rs 1.50 crore in tipping fee whereas the latter claimed it had already paid more than what the company demanded.
 
 An agreement was signed between JITF and Bathinda MC for collection and transportation of solid waste in 2011 for 25 years. Nearly 110 tonnes waste is collected daily in Bathinda.
 
 A representative of JITF said, “Bathinda MC owes Rs 1.48 crore to the company. Under such circumstances, the company is unable to perform its duty and has already made it clear that it will not collect and transport solid waste after April 30.”
 
 Sources said MC had a plan to collect and transport solid waste but lacked resources as it needed over 50 tippers for that. It also faced shortage of manpower, they said.
 
 Bathinda MC executive engineer Sandeep Gupta, who deals with the issue of solid waste management, said they had filed a review petition in which it had been prayed that JITF should be directed to fully honour the written agreement and both parties be allowed to work on collection of waste.
 
 
