BHOPAL: After days and days of intense heat,   on Friday witnessed a few drops of rain. However, the slight drizzle failed to give any respite from the sultry conditions. 

 Following the rain, humidity in Bhopal and several parts of the state went up.
 
 On Friday, humidity in the state capital stood at 40%, which was six per cent more than a day earlier. While there was no change in the day temperature, the night temperature on Friday was two degrees higher than on Thursday.
 
 Even though there was clouding during the day, the wait for some respite in the form of strong pre-monsoon showers continues.
 
  Officials of the meteorological department, Bhopal circle said there are cyclonic circulations over northwest and northeast Rajasthan. Besides, there is presence of a trough extending from northwest Rajasthan to south Bihar. These systems will lead to rain, thundershowers and high-speed winds at many places in  . 
 
  As far as Bhopal was concerned, the maximum temperature on Friday was recorded at 42.7 degrees Celsius, three degrees above normal mark while minimum temperature was recorded at 30.4 degrees Celsius, also three degrees more than normal. Wind direction in city was easterly at an average speed of 22 kmph. 
 
  On Thursday, day temperature in Bhopal was recorded at 42.7 degrees Celsius while minimum was at 28.6 degrees Celsius. On Friday, the places that recorded showers included Betul (25.0 mm),   (8.8 mm), Mandla (6.3 mm), Umaria (3.8 mm), Indore (2.8), Narsinghpur (2.0 mm) while Jabalpur and Bhopal recorded traces of rain. Highest temperature in the state was recorded from Gwalior at 45.4 degrees Celsius. 
 
 In the forecast for Saturday, the met officials said there would be mainly clear sky over Bhopal but clouds will be witnessed in intervals. Parts of the city would also witness thundery development. Meanwhile, day and night temperatures would be degrees and 30 degrees Celsius respectively and average wind speed will be 16 kmph.
 
  With regards to the rest of the state, met officials have issued a warning for heatwaves at Gwalior, Sheopurkalan, Shivpuri, Umaria and Damoh. Besides, there is a possibility of thundery development at places like Rewa, Jabalpur, Chambal, Shahdol, Betul, Hoshangabad, Khandwa, Khargone, Indore, Barwani, Burhanpur, Mandsaur, Neemuch, Ratlam, Sagar, Tikamgarh and Chhatarpur. 
 
 
