CHANDIGARH: The perennial practice of releasing the overflow from a tube-well point near the   in Sector 42 has caused severe erosion of the top soil, collapsed the tube-well’s boundary wall, and killed many trees.

 This   right behind the Sector 42-C market is attached with a reservoir and the pipes attached to its three vents release water under the wall. A part of the temple backyard, which is full of trees and undergrowth, falls in the way of this stream. The water has taken away the soil and destroyed the trees by weaking their roots.
 
 “Earlier, they used to release the water from a different vent to the right, which was facing the neighborhood wall, and it used to flood the entire road, causing the nearby residents a lot of trouble,” said Kanhaiya, a helper at the temple. “You can see (he points out) how due to the constant release of water, that portion of the road has developed potholes, while the rest of the road is alright.”
 
 According to some more temple helpers and the priests, the venting route was changed from extreme right to the middle of the wall, and that’s when the problems with the trees on the waste ground started. It resulted in water stagnation, top-soil erosion, a constant breeding of mosquitoes, and accumulation of garbage. “The flow of the water is so strong that, it loosened the soil beneath the boundary wall of the tube-well, which caved in almost a month ago. You can see the broken wall’s pieces all around,” said  , a nearby resident. 
 
 This part of the temple’s wall has peepal, keekar, tut and other trees. The overflow, which is almost regular during summer, makes this entire place smelly and the ground wet. “Garbage has also begun to collect here but we cannot get it cleaned because it’s all covered in water,” said Kanhaiya. The paving of a nearby pavement is also unfinished due to high moisture content in the base soil, say temple priests.
 
 When confronted, the area junior engineer said: “Actually, the stagnant water accumulated on the temple premises is from a sewer and not our tube-well. The water that flows from the tube-well is released towards a road gully.”
 
