PANAJI: Five villages across Goa including Keri-Sattari, Priol, Guirdolim, Macazana and Kalay have been finalised by   (NIT), Goa, for adoption under the central government’s   programme. A team from NIT Goa is already engaged in studying the problems faced by villagers in these areas. Panchayats in these villages will then get the institute’s experts’ help to draw up a village development plan.

 
 
  
 The role of the institute is to facilitate the villages to get funds for improvement of village infrastructure under over 15 ongoing central government programmes for development of rural areas. The areas identified for improvement can range from anything from drinking water, to sanitation, agriculture, energy, and education.
 
 “These villages have been identified along with the district collectors based on various criteria, including a tremendous possibility seen for improvement of life of the villagers for the better. Our team is visiting the village twice every month,” said a member of the NIT under the Unnat Bharat Abhiyan programme.
 
 The initial survey will be a challenge as villagers have to be coaxed into opening up about their problems. The phase-wise implementation of development in the areas identified, will then begin over a period of time.
 
 The NIT team will also explore if there is a possibility of providing any technological intervention the institute can offer.
 
 “The NIT Goa, under its outreach programme Unnat Bharat Abhiyan, has received overwhelming response in Goa. The institute has adopted five villages across the two districts. The objective is to identify the developmental needs and the challenges the villagers are facing on their day-to-day life and then provide solutions to these problems. NIT Goa has so far conducted multiple detailed household surveys in those villages and identified their needs and the problems. NIT Goa believes rural development can herald a sustainable growth in the Goan society at large,” NIT Goa director, professor   said.
 
 
