The names of many places in Goa are more than just charming; they are a   of information. A peek into their etymological roots will reveal Kannada, Gujarati and even Tamil influences left behind by various dynasties that ruled the region, not to mention the more recent impact of Portuguese colonisation.

 Besides the historical influence on names, topography and natural resources are the other influencers, as are the trade routes that brought with them cultural exchanges. So while dynasties from Kannada-speaking lands like the Kadambas gave us names like Mandovi and Karmali, commerce with Gujarati-speaking lands gave us Verna and Lotli, and trade with Arab countries gave us Anjuna. There is even a place in Goa that indicates that Tamil had a role to play in its naming.
 
 “The Kannada influence is seen in many of the place names in this tract. Place names bearing the suffix ‘li’ eg Cuncoli, Velli, Zambavli, Banali, Panoli, Amboli, Naveli, etc, are all  . ‘Li’ is simply an abbreviation of ‘halli’ (hamlet in Kannada),” says author and researcher Severino Silva. According to him, the term Karmal (of Karmal Ghat) is Tamil in origin, meaning black mountain.
 
 However, if one follows the etymological path of political impact, those into toponomy will trace the earliest influence to the first chapter in the state’s history — the Parashurama legend. As the story goes, Lord Parashurama shot an arrow and reclaimed the land that we today call Goa, from the sea. He then chose 96   to settle here, of which 66 settled in Salcete (derivative of the Sanskrit word for 66 — ‘Sashasti’) and 30 settled in Tiswadi (‘Tees’ meaning 30 in Sanskrit).
 
 Researcher Sangeeta M Sonak says that naming of places and persons after valuable resources is another common practice among many indigenous communities. “Such traditions are reported in Goa as well as many other parts of India. In Goa, there is at least one place named after shells (sanka or shankha), that is Sancoale,” says Sonak adding that sea shells were considered a valuable resource as they were used to obtain lime that was used in the traditional Kaavi art of decorating walls.
 
 Cultural exchanges, like the one between the people of Goa and Gujarat, are reflected in the place names around the narrow gulf of Mormugao, say other researchers. “The village name Verna is corruption of the Sanskrit name Varenya or Varnapur (the village of the sea god). People migrating from the submerged city of Lothal might have given the name Lotli to another village on Zuari river,” says Goa University professor Nandakumar Kamat.
 
 Coming to more recent history, Silva says, “Some place names are entirely Portuguese eg. Vasco in  . Soccorro is succour; alto is hillside.” “The   on names will remain just as Tamil has survived for over 2,000 years in the place name Karmal, and Kannada has survived in the place name Chandor for over 1,000 years,” writes Silva.
 
