Holi, the festival of colours, is here and with it are the vibrant colours, celebratory beats of dhols and of course, the ever-popular  . Like most festivals,   is incomplete if not celebrated with family and friends, but this is not a festival for our beloved pets. Manufactured with chemicals like zinc, lead and mercury sulphate, the synthetic colours are not just harmful to human skin, but also for animals and marine life. 
“Colours used during Holi these days are laden with chemicals that are harmful not just to humans, but also speechless animals,” says Dr  , an animal activist. “Compared to human skin, animal skin is much more sensitive and has a different structure. And if these chemicals can have adverse effect on human skin, imagine how an animal’s skin would react to them. A lot of these chemicals are banned in various countries, but they are still used in India,” she adds.
 
 It is not just about dousing animals with colour on purpose, as they also get effected when they come in contact with it in any form. She says, “When these colours are poured on the road and stray   sit on it, infections breakout and their skin gets ruptured. The colours stick to their hair causing alopecia, eye irritation, nasal irritation and respiratory issues apart from infections. It’s even more dangerous if these animals have open wounds as it causes systemic toxicity when it gets ingested as they lick their body. Forget pouring these colours onto an animal on purpose — be it a stray or pet, those who play Holi must ensure they’re careful not to discard too much colour on roads where these animals roam.” 
 
 However, it’s not just the strays and pets that one needs to be careful about as colours are harmful for marine life, as well. Scuba divemaster,   says, “Colours, made of heavy metals, have an adverse effect on the water bodies. They do not dissolve properly in water nor do they combine with other metals. When someone plays close to a beach or worse, in it, and the colours enter the sea, these chemicals end up entering our food chain through sea food and consequently increase the risk of hormonal, nervous and cancerous diseases in our body. The marine life and corals are left affected too. When these colours enter the digestive system of say, dolphins or turtles, their other organs, including the reproductive ones,too are left affected.” 
 
 While there is no hope for marine life once these chemicals enter the sea, Dr Tripta Kaur warns against using human soaps or shampoos to wash your pets. “Human shampoos are acid based and animal skin responds only to basic compounds. Using acid-based chemicals onanimals, like colours or human shampoos, cause severe skin diseases in animals,” she stresses. 
 
