CHENNAI: With the   becoming complex and the idea of a open environment with less hierarchy catching up in most workplaces,   no longer just manage and designate work, more often you seen them take on the role of someone who resolves conflicts on the office floor. As an indicative of counter productivity in workplaces, a recent survey by employee assessment and skill measurement company Mettl says that managers spend up to 40% of their time dealing with interpersonal problems stemming from poor behaviour and misunderstandings.

 
 Senior HR executives spend up to 20% of their time in litigation activities, most of which relate to conflict in the workplace, the findings added.
 
  
  
 
 Managers add that this leads to lower productivity and poor team performance and the activity can be minimised by assessment of dark traits of potential and current   that lead to employee conflict and mapping employees to the appropriate teams and managers. Firms now step up to assess the employee’s traits before he/ she joins the team, in order to mitigate the issues and improve productivity.
 
 “We spend 30-40% of our time in conflict management and this aspect can be minimised by planning and placing the right talents in the right team. There have also been conflicts between the project manager and the employees, when the latter find him bossy. Periodic tests must be conducted to assess dark traits, before the employee joins and when he transitions into the managerial role where people management roles come to play,” said Ankush Garg, associate manager, research, Netscribe, Gurgaon.
 
 Industry sources add that companies with more alumni in the workplace are able to minimise conflicts and same holds for big organisations with a legacy in place. “It is with mid-sized organisations that fitment of employees is not taken into consideration and number-driven hiring happens. There are factions within the team and the productivity could go down by 50%,” said Neeraj Sharma, senior director, HR, FourKites. The company has tests in place from Criteria Corp to assess the personality of its employees before taking them in.
 
