Tirupur: In order to bridge the gap between knitwear units and fashion designers, a trade body in the city has decided to conduct an annual   from this year.

 Around 100 knitwear unit owners will be invited to the ‘Tirupur International Fashion Runway’, which will be conducted at Gayathri Hotel on May 24. 
 
 The initiative came after Tirupur Thozhil Pathukappu Kuzhu (TTPK-Tirupur Business Protection Committee) felt the need to equip fashion designers and create awareness among the knitwear units to utilize them in order to be competitive in the market.
 
 Addressing the reporters on Thursday, K Mohanasundaram, managing trustee of TTPK said, “The Tirupur knitwear cluster has been losing business gradually as there are significant changes in the industry. In order to stay in the international market, the industrialists should be competitive. Traditionally, they are used to manufacture the garments based on designs and specifications given by foreign buyers and export them.”
 
 “Only few of the top-level companies have created their own brands and would hire fashion designers for their products. Otherwise, the domestic apparel market was dominated by few big companies, who have design studios in Mumbai and Bengaluru. Hence, the scope for nurturing fashion designers didn’t grow in Tirupur,” Mohanasundaram explained. 
 
 “One of the main reasons for the failure is Tirupur being a non-metropolitan city. Now, the city-based companies that involve in branding will hire freelance fashion designers from other cities. Since most of the companies in the cluster are either small or medium scale units, they cannot afford designer studio or research and development infrastructure. However, the issue will be solved after the NIFT-TEA college of knitwear fashion gets a common designer studio,” he further said.
 
 “So, the annual fashion ramp show coupled with availability of designer studio could provide the environment for thriving fashion designers. If good designers are available, the industrialists will be ready to utilise them,” he said.
 
 Fashion designer Manoj Saravanan, the founder of the upcoming fashion event said, “Despite hailing from the country’s knitwear capital, I didn’t get the required exposure here that is required for a fashion designer. So, I had to move to other metro cities to learn about fashion and this was the case for many other designers.”
 
 “We have been conducting fashion shows in other cities. But our aim was to have shows in place where the production happens. We have decided to give an opportunity to five established and emerging fashion designers. This year, theme will be ‘Go Green’,” Manoj said.
 
 
