NASHIK: The Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) student council members are preparing to raise student issues at the upcoming meetings of the MUHS Senate and academic councils.

 Foremost among these issues will be the demand to introduce revaluation system at the medical university. The council members were elected in January this year.
 
 The current MUHS student council president,  , hails from an   based in Hatkanangale (Kolhapur). He said that at present, students cannot get their papers rechecked at the MUHS. “There is only the provision of retotaling the marks. Revaluation is the students’ right and must be brought back. We will try to raise the issue in the subsequent meetings of the Senate. Hopefully, there will be a consensus to rethink the decision taken in 2012 to stop this system,” said Benki. 
 
 The council’s general secretary   from   also backed the demand. “I think the MUHS is the only university, where revaluation process is not done. Instead, they just check the total marks. The irony is that the student can apply for an answer sheet photocopy, but it’s not allowed to get it checked from an expert for revaluation,” he said.
 
 On the other hand, an MUHS official said the already existing ‘double check’ system is better than the revaluation process. 
 
 “We have a double-checking system instead of revaluation. Once the process of checking answer-papers is complete, the same process gets repeated in the MUHS by another set of examiners. In case of a change in marks, the mean offered by both groups of examiners is considered as the final score. We have barcodes on the answer sheets and this ensures a transparent method of checking papers,” MUHS registrar K D Chavan said.
 
 He also said the system is foolproof. “The high court has also approved this double checking system when it was challenged by some academicians a few years ago,” Chavan added.
 
 The MUHS had decided to stop revaluation and introduce the double checking system in 2012, after almost every candidate had asked for a revaluation of their answer sheets. The university had to give photocopies of one crore answer sheets.
 
 Students are, however, not convinced. They claim that there can be errors while checking answer sheets and so the revaluation system is needed.
 
 Narendra Chaubey, a BHMS student, said, “In the present double checking system, students don’t get a chance to clarify their doubts. We accept what we get.”
 
 Anagha Tiwari, a student of dentistry said some students fail by two or three marks. “In such cases, a revaluation process is needed. What is the point of merely retotaling marks?”
 
 Apart from the revaluation, student council members will also raise issues like even distribution of student welfare schemes at all colleges and opening more research avenues for students of all faculties. “The university has many student welfare schemes, but colleges are least interested in their implementation. Because of this, many eligible and needy students miss the advantages of financial aids, and other assistance,” Jaisingpure said.
 
 
