Mines and geology minister   was one of the lynchpins in the Siddaramaiah government’s game plan to win over   votes by according them religious minority status. Yet, Kulkarni rarely broaches the issue in Dharwad assembly constituency where he is seeking re-election.

 
 
  
 
 
 Lingayats, who form the major chunk of the constituency’s electorate, are divided over the minority tag. While   sees the move as empowering Lingayats,   has dubbed it divisive as it tries to distinguish between Lingayats and Veerashaivas.
 
 “His involvement in the controversy will neither help nor hinder him politically. An average Lingayat does not understand the nuances of the issue. There are other factors that will determine the result,” says Mallanagouda Patil, a Lingayat farmer from Yadwad.
 
 Corruption, scarcity of drinking water, degrading lakes and tanks, crop losses and lack of toilets are some of the issues bothering voters of the constituency, which includes parts of Dharwad city and its hinterland.
 
 Kulkarni is facing an equal match in   from BJP. Son of former MLA Ayyappa Desai, Amrut comes from the Hangaraki Desai family which holds sway in over 20 villages where it once owned lands. Amrut, who joined BJP on invitation and is a former zilla panchayat member, had lost to Kulkarni in 2013 as a JD(S) candidate.
 
 Like Kulkarni, Amrut is young and a Lingayat. “Amrut can match Vinay in several aspects like resources, community backing, family background and personal clout and hence BJP preferred to field him,” said a senior BJP leader.
 
 As the first MLA from the constituency to become a minister, Kulkarni has made every effort to nurture the segment by implementing several government schemes. He was instrumental in getting funds for construction of roads to farmers’ fields under ‘Namma Hola, Namma Raste’ and farm ponds.
 
 Yet, Kulkarni’s position has been rendered wobbly because of BJP’s determined effort to oust him. Besides Amrut, two other candidates who had lost to him in 2013, Seema Masuti and Tavanappa Astagi, too are now in the BJP camp.
 
 Seema as BJP candidate, Amrut as JD(S) nominee and Tavanappa as KJP candidate had together polled 56% of the votes last time against Kulkarni’s 40%.
 
 Denied a party ticket this time, Seema had threatened to contest as a rebel but BJP managed to assuage her feelings and she is campaigning for Amrut now. Seema had defeated Vinay once, in 2008. JD(S) has fielded corporator Shrikant Jumanal as its candidate.
 
 
