NEW DELHI: A 19-year-old   was   and physically tortured for almost a   in outer Delhi’s Aman Vihar. Though the girl managed to   and register an FIR, her abductor has evaded arrest.

 On April 9, the woman, accompanied by her father, visited Aman Vihar police station and narrated her ordeal to the policemen. Her father added that it was not the first time he had visited a police station in this regard. He alleged that he had gone to get a missing complaint registered on the day his daughter was abducted, but failed to do so.
 
 DCP (outer) MN Tiwari denied getting any complaint about the girl going missing. Tiwari claimed that a case was registered as soon as the girl approached them and a team was formed to pursue the case.
 
 The girl told the cops that the accused lived in the same neighbourhood and often stalked her. She, however, didn’t tell anyone about it as she thought he would eventually stop harassing her. On March 30, however, the man followed her to a store and then back to her house, from where he abducted her at gunpoint.
 
 “A few hours later, he took me to a room and   me several times that night,” she alleged.
 
 The girl, a Class XI student, was not given food or water for several days and whenever she asked for anything, she was thrashed. She told the cops that the accused used to stuff dirty cloth in her mouth and tied her to the bed so that she could not alert others or escape from the house in his absence.
 
 However, on Tuesday, the man forgot to tie her up when he went to sleep after raping her again. Taking advantage of the situation, the girl managed to flee. “I fled from the house through a small window and sought help from a passerby. Then I rushed back home and told my mother everything,” the girl claimed.
 
 Her mother said that the girl could barely speak when she got home. “She was trembling and it took her almost half an hour to calm down and tell us what had happened. I phoned my husband, who rushed back home and took her to the police station,” the mother added.
 
 Since the woman was bruised and bleeding, she was rushed to the hospital from the police station and discharged after three days of treatment. She is now being counselled.
 
 Police said that a case has been registered under the Indian Penal Code, invoking Sections 354 (D) (punishment for stalking), 365 (Kidnapping or abducting with intent secretly and wrongfully to confine person), 344 (Wrongful confinement for ten or more days), 323 (Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 376 (punishment for rape).
 
 
