CHANDIGARH: They are queens on the 64 squares. Meet Chandigarh’s Goyal   — Tarini and Arunima — who are making the right moves on the   board, winning one tournament after the other. 

 Tarini and Arunima complement each other to the hilt. Tarini, the younger of the two, has an Elo rating of 2130 and needs 70 more points to become an International Master. Arunima, on the other hand, has an Elo rating of 1615. The day is not far when both girls become International Masters.
 
 Achievements galore
 
 Arunima, who is pursuing her BCom (Hons) from Shri Ram College of Commerce in Delhi, was part of the   (DU) team that won the   medal in the All-India University Chess Championship in Bhopal last year. DU had, earlier, also bagged the gold in the north zone chess championship.
 
 However, her biggest success came in 2013 when Arunima claimed the bronze at the Asian Chess Championship held in Iran; and, in the same year, she was also selected to represent India in the World School Chess Championship that was held in Halkidi, Greece.
 
 Tarini, a class XI student of Sacred Heart Senior Secondary School, Sector 26, has surpassed her sister in terms of achievements. She was recently selected to represent India in the 2018 Asian Youth Chess Championship and the following World Youth Chess Championship.
 
 She had also competed in the 2017 World Junior Chess Championship in Italy and secured the 8th position in the Commonwealth (U-16) Chess Championship, held in New Delhi.
 
  She also bagged the gold in Blitz format in the 2012 Asian Schools Chess Championship that was also held in New Delhi.
 
 Hobby turns into passion
 
 According to Juhi Goyal, mother of the two, the sisters started playing chess just as a hobby. “Arunima took to chess during the vacations. Then she started participating in school-level tournaments. In no time, the hobby turned into her passion,” added Juhi, with a smile on her face.
 
 It was Arunima, who set the ball rolling, winning tournaments consistently in Chandigarh. Seeing her expertise in the sport, Arunima’s parents started taking her outside Chandigarh for other national-level championships. 
 
 “I remember an incident, when we were in Chennai and Tarini was only five, a gentleman wanted to know whether she was playing any kind of sport or not. I replied to him, ‘No she is only five, she is too young’. Arunima was also present during that conversation,” reminisced Juhi.
 
 And, the Chennai trip proved to be a huge turning point. Back in Chandigarh, Arunima started taking her little sister to her training sessions under coach Naveen Bansal, who was surprised by Tarini’s swift progress. The rest is history.
 
 Dearth of coaches in UT
 
 Both sisters lamented that Chandigarh lacks good coaches in chess. Tarini travels to Delhi once a month and practises with her coach G B Joshi. “She needs a better coach. But in Chandigarh, despite the competition in chess getting stiffer, one can’t get good coaches,” said her mother.
 
 And, it’s not just about coaches. According to Juhi, in Chandigarh, any championship features around 25 to 30 players. However, in Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and Bhopal, the competition increases manifold times and the participation rises to 200 to 300 players. 
 
 There is also a need to ensure the sisters get a taste of international chess regularly. “They need to play against more foreign players to improve their ratings. I am hopeful that by the end of this year Tarini will get to that magical figure of 2200,” said Ashish Goyal, father of the two sisters.
 
 But, any budding sportsperson needs support from his or her parent association and that is missing in the case of the   sisters. “Chandigarh Chess Association doesn’t help us. We have managed everything on our own for more than 10 years now. In Chandigarh, the UT sports department only focusses on the Olympic sports,” rued Ashish.
 
 “Arunima and Tarini don’t have sponsors. Financial support is a major hurdle. Somehow, I have managed till now by God’s grace and I will try and take care of their chess-related expenses in the future as well,” he added.
 
 Juhi also regrets that chess players from Chandigarh do not get the support players from other states enjoy. “Chess players from other states are aided by corporate houses, sport associations; and, they don’t have to think about their tickets, accommodation and food, while participating in a tournament whether it’s national or international. The chess associations of Delhi and Maharashtra are walking that extra mile to help their players,” she added.
 
 
