CHENNAI: Neighbouring Andhra Pradesh revised bus fare seven times since 2001. Karnataka and   revised fares on 15 and eight occasions respectively since 2011, but   government has revised fares only twice in the last 18 years and the last time it did was in 2011.

 Call it appeasing the electorate or gross mismanagement, successive governments in the state have landed the transport corporations in deep financial mess. Eight transport corporations have an accumulated loss of Rs 19,828 crore till November. The loss per day is estimated at Rs nine per kilometre.
 
 Meanwhile, trade unions have intensified the strike. The working capital requirement of the transport corporations is met out of overdraft, cash credit from banks, availing loan from transport development finance corporation and the state government. Interest burden is further crippling the corporations. Thanks to mismanagement, the fleet strength has not grown to meet the growing demand from passengers for many years.
 
 
  
 
 The government has kept the corporations running by offering subsidy for high speed diesel and short-term loans every year. “If the fare revision was done periodically, we would not have had this crisis,” said a senior official.
 
 Lands and buildings of state transport undertakings are all mortgaged to banks and Tamil Nadu transport development finance corporation. Till September, the debt was Rs 10,546 crore. Meeting the day-to-day operational expenses is a nightmare. Payment of statutory dues like provident fund and gratuity has been put off. Periodical court interventions alone bring in some order. “Nowhere in the country have we seen statutory dues of transport workers pending for years. Let the government bailout the sector for mismanaging its affairs for years,”   state secretary   said.
 
 Wage revision for transport undertakings is mandatory every three years. When the government fixed the quantum of pay hike on Thursday, trade unions did not agree to it. The pay revision was announced after 23 rounds of talks over a year. The total financial commitment annually on account of wage revision is Rs 996 crore. “How does the state deal with loss-making undertakings like the electricity board? Should not the same yardstick be applied to transport corporations also? We suffer for mismanagement in administration,” DMK’s   general secretary M Shanmugam said. Why didn’t the   revise bus fare when it was in power? “That is a political decision,” was all that he would say.
 
 
