KOCHI: The steady increase in fuel prices has prompted stakeholders to go back to their demand of regulating   and diesel prices under the   tax regime. On April 1, diesel price in the state capital crossed the Rs 70-mark: it was Rs 69.89 on March 31.

 Federation of All India Petroleum Traders vice-president R Sabarinath said that over the past nine months, the price of diesel and petrol in Kerala increased by Rs 12 and Rs 10 respectively. The daily increase in rates has significantly impacted several industries, especially those that depend on diesel, such as mass transportation and trucking industries.
 
 
  
 
 “Kerala is a consumer state and almost all products are brought here. Due to increasing rates, the rental charge of trucks will increase and this in turn will affect the rates of products that are being brought here,” said  , president of Kerala State Lorry Owners Welfare Federation, who suggested that regulating fuel under GST would significantly help the industry as it would bring the industry under a singletax system, which in effect would be lower.
 
 General secretary of Kerala Merchants Chamber of Commerce Mohamed   said that since oil prices increase gradually, ordinary consumers have not been able identify the hike in prices. “As merchants must deal with price change every day, we are aware of price increase in every sector. The price of every single construction material had increased by Rs 20 last year. The trickle-down will affect all sectors,” he added.
 
 “Earlier government fixed fuel prices. Ever since the Centre deregulated fuel prices, the only adjustable variable in the price of the oil products is the tax levied by state and central excise, the remaining factors are based on the fluctuations of the international market, which is not in our hands,” Sabarinath said. He said that fuel products are taxed at almost 52%, which includes all taxes and excise duties.
 
 “Under the GST system, without excise duties the tax rate on oil products will nearly halve,” he added.
 
 Meanwhile, private bus owners have lost hope. “This year when we approached the government over the student concession issue, they dismissed it. The increasing diesel rates have become a huge burden on us. With frequent travellers now opting for newer modes of travel, we cannot increase our prices,” said secretary of Private Bus Owners Federation KB Suneer.
 
