NAGPUR: “Physical, mental and social well-being constitute occupational health,” said Dr Vibhavari Dani, ex dean of Government Medical College and Hospital, quoting Indian Labour Organization’s findings on Saturday. She was speaking at the plenary session, held as part of a national conference on   and its Holistic Management, hosted at National Institute of Miners’ Health (NIMH), JNARDDC Campus. 

 The conference attempted to be a platform to disseminate new ideas, and discuss on various problems in Occupational diseases. It was organized by Pratibha Shakti Nagpur in collaboration with Rajiv Gandhi Biotechnology Centre, and NIMH.
 
 “Every fifteen seconds, a worker dies because of work related disease or accident. We have 18 million cases of occupational health diseases,” she said, adding that reported cases were only a tip of the iceberg, and that several cases went unreported, and are hidden. 
 
 Which is why most of them die and we don’t come to know of it until the terminal stage, when nothing can be done. Most cases of acute health hazards can be treated, prevented or reversed in early stages. Once it is late, there is no option other than organ transplant.
 
 Dani explained how occupational health hazards causing illnesses can be in various forms — physical problems like noise, vibration, pressure, various types of chemicals, certain infections, type of work giving rise to psychosocial problems and working in a particular position can give rise to ergonomic problems. “Mine workers feel that the symptoms are part of the job,” she said. She then furthered on types of hazards, local and acute, and treatment as well as prevention of the hazards. She ended her talk by asking audience to consider donation of organs, and said, “Organ transplant is a reality. Most of the organs can be transplanted.”
 
 Mayor Nanda Jichkar, NU pro vice-chancellor PG Yeole, and national secretary general Vijana Bharti, A Jaykumar were the guests of honour at the inauguration of the two-day conference. Organizers Dr Shubhangi Pingle, Dr Aarti Saoji, Varsha Tatwawadi and Sudha Tiwari introduced to the audience their own work sphere and about their respective organizations.
 
 A special volume of the research journal ‘The Botanique’ was released by the guests at the event. Dr  , a teacher with 37 years of experience was felicitated for her contribution to the field.
 
 Later in the day, several sessions were conducted on topics such as Occupational health hazards in Women, Nutritionist’s Perspective on Holistic Management of Occupational Health Hazards, Experiences from Tertiary Care Centre, and more were headlined by doctors and scientists.
 
 Dr Rajpal Singh Kashyap, director of research Lab at Central India Institute of Medical Sciences, Nagpur, spoke on animal handling diseases. “In the last three years, there have been several reported cases from Animal handlers in Chhatisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. We have seen that diseases can not only be transmitted from animals to humans, but also from humans to animals.” Nikhil Kulkarni, research officer at NIMH, spoke on Noise Mapping.
 
 
