
It was a given that the   would have a substantial focus on rural and agriculture sector.
 
 Farm incomes have stagnated for the past four years, partly due to falling prices, output and import glut or demonetisation. The government is committed to doubling farmers’ income by 2022, but that would also need substantial increase in farm output and productivity. Merely price support would not do it. Even then the FM’s announcement of a big hike in MSPs was the right political signal. The Budget documents, however, reveal only 21% increase in the food subsidy Budget, as against 27% in the previous year.
 
 MSPs are like an option or insurance, and kick in only if market prices fall below the threshold. Hence budgeting for this option is not easy. The farm sector needs to be unshackled from multiple controls, which prevent direct linkage between a producer and an end consumer. Of course various initiatives like tax holiday for farmer producer companies, setting up of 22,000 modern rural agricultural mini-markets and credit flow to tenant farmers should all help. The actual impact of   hike remains to be seen. By far, one of the biggest announcements was India’s giant step toward universal health insurance. Covering 100 million families with Rs 5 lakh of health insurance is an ambitious step. The actual outlay is on the premiums, which can be a small fraction. But in itself it makes families much less vulnerable. Of course, apart from financing, health insurance would work only if healthcare providers are also geared up, with adequate beds, hospitals and doctors. Nevertheless a commendable step.
 
 The political thrust toward rural, agriculture and social sectors is much less burdensome on the exchequer than what meets the eye. Thus overall spending has been targeted to go up by less than the growth in nominal GDP next year. Besides, due to demonetisation and formalisation of the economy, and higher inflation, the tax collection will go up at twice the rate of spending growth. This is good for keeping the fiscal deficit in check.
 
 Disinvestment was a success this year (although some of it was the left pocket buying from the right pocket). Next year’s target is modestly ambitious and is likely to be met. The reintroduction of the long-term capital gains tax was overdue, as it brings parity with other asset classes. On the objective of job creation, there is an employment and wage subsidy scheme, whose success depends much more on the upswing of private investment spending. In summary, it was a rural and social sector focused, growth-boosting Budget with an eye on next year’s national elections.
 
 All this has been achieved without too much fiscal slippage. Given favorable global macro (despite higher oil prices), we should see higher growth across all sectors, and better fiscal situation next year.
 
 
 
 
