PATIALA: Controversy over the ‘inflammatory’ speech given by Congress leader  , alias Harry Mann, during a party workers’ meet at Devigarh in Patiala district continued on Wednesday as SAD held protests on at various places. The Akalis demanded action against the Congress leader for his ‘inflammatory’ speech.

 SAD held protests at four places in Sanour, from where Harry had unsuccessfully contested the 2017 assembly elections.
 
 
 On other hand, the Congress issued a show-cause notice to Harry and also asked him to tender a  
 
 Akali leader and Sanour MLA Harinderpal Singh Chandumajra said in case action was not taken against Harry, he would sit on a dharna outside New Moti Bagh — private residence of chief minister   — on January 15. He said if need be he would also stage a protest outside the residence of   Rahul Gandhi in Delhi.
 
 Chandumajra demanded that besides registration of a criminal case against Harry for giving a provocative speech and hurting Sikh religious sentiments, he should immediately be removed as a syndicate member of Punjabi University, Patiala, as it was a prestigious educational institution and no ‘gangster-like leader’ should be allowed to be its part.
 
 Congress distanced itself from the controversy. Party spokesman   said a show-cause notice had been issued to Harry for making such a statement.
 
 Punjab Pradesh COngress Committee (PPCC) president Sunil Jakhar said such an act was highly condemnable and the leader should tender a public apology. Jakhar said he had spoken to Harry on Tuesday during which the latter regretted making such a statement. However, Harry remained adamant and claimed the statement given by him had been misinterpreted.
 
 He said Guru Gobind Singh had written to the Mughal rulers that to protect themselves, Sikhs would not desist from using the Sri Sahib (symbolic sword).
 
 “It was in this context that I had spoken of using Sri Sahib at the workers’ meeting,” Mann said. Meanwhile, SAD wrote to the Akal Takht jathedar, seeking action against Harry for hurting Sikh sentiments.
 
