Even before his upcoming action-franchise, 'Race 3', hits screens this Eid,   is gearing up for his next with choreographer-turned filmmaker  . Mirror has learnt that the duo will roll with a “full-fledged dancing film” after the actor wraps up Ali Abbas Zafar’s 'Bharat' and Prabhudheva’s 'Dabbang 3', which will be shot simultaneously. 

 While rumours are rife that Remo’s dance-drama, which was earlier titled 'Dancing Dad' and revolved around a father-daughter relationship, has been shelved, Salman informs Mirror that he has signed up to play the leading man in the film. 
 
  
  
 “Remo and I were supposed to do another dance film last year but, unlike what he’d like to believe, everybody can’t dance, and I messed up my shoulder while training for the sequences. So that film was put on hold. Then, Race 3 came along. Now, this dance film is happening, and I will be training extensively for it,” says Salman. 
 
 On Wednesday, the 52-year-old actor was shooting for a brand with his 'Race 3' co-stars Saqib Saleem and Bobby Deol at  , when Mirror caught up with him. “I take off on the Da-Bangg Reloaded world tour next month-end, then there’s Bharat and Dabbang. Since the script of Kick 2 isn’t ready yet, I’ll start Remo’s film first,” he points out, adding that his 'Race 3' co-stars   and   were the first ones to come on-board this new film and that shooting commences next year. 
 
 Meanwhile, 'Race 3' marks Salman’s debut as a lyricist and worldwide distributor, and he is seemingly pleased with the end-product. “Jacqueline and Daisy dance well,” he raves, adding, “Remo has taken everyone’s dance skills to a higher level. There’s Jacqueline’s pole-dancing and Daisy’s aerial act, which she filmed in Ladakh. While people were fainting due to low air pressure and biting cold, she was performing acrobatics. A lot of hard-work went into this film and I want everyone to benefit from its release. You will be blown away by Jackie and Daisy’s fight scene as well. It’s crisply shot.” 
 
 The actor, who plays the protagonist Sikander in the   production, reveals that the ensemble cast, which also includes franchise regular  , and new entrants Bobby Deol, Saqib Salim, underwent extensive training. “There are three-four rehearsals before each sequence. With' Race 3', there were super cars, bikes and choppers exploding. We were shooting in Abu Dhabi and our action director (Tom Struthers) ensured that we didn’t get even one car back. They were all blown up in as many as 200 parts,” he informs, clarifying that even the stunt-doubles on the sets were insured. “Safety is most important,” he says, quipping, 
 
 “Even then, Daisy managed to fracture her leg.” Between the upcoming musical tour and three backto-back films, Salman is also trying to squeeze in a Nepal tour, which has been cancelled twice since last year. “It has been delayed since the Nepal Government changed and we had to rework our plan. The team wanted to go there this week, but it was too close to Race 3’s release. We’re working on it and will visit soon,” he says, recalling that he had filmed in the picturesque country in the late ’90s for his drama, Buland, that never saw the light of day. But he admits that he is eager to go back and interact with the locals.
  
  
