Chandigarh: The UT education department’s annual two-day exhibition-cum-sale of clothes designed by the students of Class XII is on at Kisan Bhawan in Sector 35.

 Created for children, teenagers, and women, the garments include hand-painted, block-printed, and screen-printed linen and dupattas. The students who created all the attires are from the vocational courses of fashion design and clothing construction, and textile designing and printing. UT education secretary BL Sharma inaugurated the event here on Thursday.
 
 Fashion designing and clothing construction is being offered in nine government senior secondary schools, while textile designing and printing is being offered in two. The items on display were prepared in school workshops, where real work situations are created and the students create designer items every day under the supervision of teachers. They apply their skills of designing, cutting, and tailoring and produce a variety of items for various age groups and tastes. The students of textile designing and printing had created beautiful hand-painted suits, sarees, duppattas, and other linen items.
 
 The objective of involving students in all the production stages from purchasing raw material to finishing a product is to develop entrepreneurship skills among them. The students do cost calculation of each item by self and also pack the items nicely for display and sale. Students of healthcare and beauty culture, hotel management and catering technology, food and beverage service, and bakery and confectionery vocational courses also participate.
 
 Students of healthcare and beauty culture have put up stalls of herbal face packs, creams, and lotions they learnt to prepare during their course and on-job training. Students of hotel management and catering technology, food and beverage service, and bakery and confectionery have displayed pocket-friendly food items that are popular with students. “The   is a platform for the students to interact with customers, who are sure to get a good bargain,” an official from the organising team said.
 
 This event also helps popularise vocational courses among the Class XI students and generate public awareness about job-oriented education. By the time of finishing Class XII, students are trained enough to find job or self-employment. Nearly 500 students from various schools are participating in this event. Of the UT’s vocational education students 102 have found jobs paying up to Rs 50,000 a month in sectors such as health and beauty studies, fashion design and garment technology, stenography, and computer applications, where the minimum wage is Rs 4,000.
 
 
