GURUGRAM: The city has been put on high alert and prohibitory orders have been imposed to prevent any kind of protest or demonstration near cinema   or multiplexes ahead of the official release of Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s film   on Thursday.

 The first show of the movie, however, will be screened at various halls and multiplexes from 6pm on Wednesday. 
 
 In the wake of the vandalism at   on Sohna Road on Monday and threats from various fringe groups, security has been stepped up across Gurgaon, with special focus on the DLF area that houses most of the city’s malls and multiplexes, to avert any kind of violence in the run-up to the Republic Day.
 
 Sources said large numbers of cops, including personnel of the district police and  , had been deployed at 10 sensitive points, most of which are on MG Road, Golf Course Road, Sohna Road and in Palam Vihar (apart from the DLF area).
 
 All officers of the rank of assistant commissioner of police (ACP) have been asked to patrol their respective areas at night, while SHOs have been told to keep close watch on malls and cinema halls in their jurisdictions.
 
 “We’ve adopted a zero-tolerance attitude to prevent any kind of violence or ruckus inside or outside malls and multiplexes and ensure safety of movie-goers. Security has been increased at all vulnerable points and roads,” said Anil Yadav, ACP (DLF).
 
 On Monday, some masked protesters raided a theatre’s ticket counter and a food outlet at Raheja Mall, while around a dozen protesters attacked a private bus at Narsinghpur village. The protesters, who were suspected to be members of the  , broke LCD screens, shattered glass windows and doors to created panic.
 
 To avert repeat of such cases, the administration has imposed Section 144 of the CrPC, prohibiting assembly of more than four people within the radius of 200m of cinema halls and multiplexes in Gurgaon district. The prohibitory orders will be in place till January 28.
 
 Officials said the administration took the step after the deputy commissioner of police (headquarters) wrote to the deputy magistrate on possibilities of disturbance by some anti-social elements in the district.
 
 “Given the upcoming release of movie Padmaavat, there is apprehension of disturbance by anti-social elements and thus, to avoid any outward incident, no such element will be allowed within 200 metres of a multiplex or hall,” said the deputy magistrate while issuing the restraining orders.
 
 “Police are on high alert to deal with any sign of disturbance immediately and avoid it from snowballing into a chaos. Leaves of all cops have been cancelled to ensure complete law and order. Any act of disturbance will be dealt with severely,”  , DCP (crime), asserted.
 
 
