CHENNAI: Staircases are meant for climbing, but at the   District Registrar’s Office in Saidapet they have become virtual waiting halls, completely taken over by the hundreds of people who throng the facility daily for registrations.

 The building on busy  , despite housing two joint registrar offices that each are among the top ten revenue earning sub-registrar’s offices in the state, has almost no space earmarked for visitors and has only 10 chairs. 
 
 The South Chennai District Registrar’s office oversees 18 sub-registrar offices in the city’s south and southern suburbs that collectively generate an annual income of around Rs 2500 crore.
 
 The lack of other basic amenities, including proper toilets and drinking water, only increases the agony of those forced to wait for hours in the cramped premises, say customers. Y M  , who visited the premises on Monday to get a property registered, charged that the public was getting a raw deal. 
 
 “We had to spend about three hours to register an apartment. We had a miserable time because the entire premises is cramped,” he said. “I have been to a few other registration offices in the city such as   where facilities are better than at this office,” he said.
 
 The three offices have been functioning on two floors of a private building for more than two decades and every day draw an average of between 800 and 1000 people for registrations, to file appeals, to correct typographical errors in registered documents and also for clarifications.
 
 A majority of those occupying the staircases in the building, including senior citizens, also complained of poor ventilation. 
 
 “I have come to this office six times in the last four months for society registration. I am not happy with the facilities available for the people who have to wait,” said a customer.
 
 When contacted, sources with the registration department said that the entire office would soon be shifted to a government building at   where there would be better facilities for visitors. 
 
 The shifting could be effected in as early as a month, an official added.
 
 
