PUNE: It’s normal for a rising tennis player to hope to avoid the big guns in the opening rounds of a tournament. But not  .

 
 The 25-year-old is back in Pune after playing former US Open champion   in the qualifying first round of the $733,900 WTA Tour event in Dubai.
 
 “When I saw Samantha’s name (against mine), I was very excited. That’s what exactly I had wanted. I wanted to play her in the first round itself. I wanted that opportunity,” Ankita said after a full-fledged practice session at the PYC Hindu Gymkhana.
 
 Her optimism is understandable. She travelled to Dubai after a scintillating performance in the   zonal tie in New Delhi. Although Team India just about managed to avoid relegation, Ankita shone bright as she won all her four singles rubbers, one of them ranked 88 (Kazakhstan’s Yulia Putintseva) and another 120 (China’s Lin Zhu).
 
 Stosur, a former world No. 4 currently ranked 45, was playing in Dubai as a wildcard. She proved to be too good for the India No. 1 who struggled to cope with the Aussie’s famous groundstrokes loaded with heavy top spin and the kick serves in a 4-6, 4-6 loss.
 
 Yet, even in hindsight, the 255th-ranked Ankita wouldn’t want it any different.
 
 “The way I have been playing, I have the confidence and the belief in my game,” the mild mannered girl with a golden heart said. “During matches every day is different. It depends on how well you play and manage on the court … She is a very good player, but it also depends on how she plays on that day. When you want to make it big, you need that opportunity (of playing the best). That’s what I wanted. It was a dream come true for me.”
 
 Ankita had 16 breakpoints but the 33-year-old Stosur saved all of them. Yet, there was no shame in losing to such a world-class player.
 
 “The amount of spin and speed she was giving, it was like (playing against) Nadal or a men’s player from the ATP. I didn’t get one ball at shoulder height, they were all here,” she said, pointing above her head.
 
 Lack of funding means Ankita doesn’t have a travelling coach. But in a rare instance, she had her coach   present along side in Dubai. Yet, even Bendrey’s meticulously prepared notes didn’t prepare Ankita for what she faced on court.
 
 “Samantha is a different player. Sir had told me a few points, but when I went out, it was completely different. You can’t make out on TV,” she said of the Aussie’s game.
 
 It proved to be a learning experience for Ankita who flew to Dubai taking a risk as she didn’t make the cut-off, but got in only due to a few withdrawals.
 
 “I had always wanted to play bigger tournaments, but in the past I opted for other tournaments. This year I have been playing well and there were also not many (ITF) tournaments around,” she said.
 
 “I was third-out, but I went there anyway and signed up for alternates. When I went there, the tournament supervisor smiled at me and said there had been three withdrawals and I was in,” she said with a grin.
 
 For Bendrey, Dubai provided an opportunity to observe his ward in person. And he was impressed with what he saw.
 
 “All these years, I was only hearing from her when she comes back from tournament or through whatsapp. Now I know one thing for sure, she belongs to this level. She can compete with the best,” the respected coach said. “Her confidence has gone up since the Mumbai Open ($125,000 WTA Series event last November where she reached the quarterfinals). I watched her practice with other girls (in Dubai) and her speed is sometimes more than others.”
 
 For someone who won both the junior and senior national titles at the age of 16 in 2009, recognition has been slow to come for Ankita. Despite being the undisputed No. 1 India player for the last five years, she has been left out of the government’s TOP scheme.
 
 The absence of an influential father figure means Ankita has been forced work doubly hard to make people take notice. Now, as she looks to make the breakthrough in the women’s circuit, a travelling coach and fitness trainer becomes absolutely necessary for Ankita.
 
 Hopefully, the sports ministry, headed by an Olympic silver medallist, will see reason in providing her the much needed financial succour.
 
