MEERUT: Amid allegations of   hotelier  , owner of Harmony Inn, fleeing the country after taking crores of rupees from banks and residents here, financial services holding company   pasted a possession notice on his hotel and bungalow in Shastri Nagar over non-payment of Rs 25.54 crore late on Friday evening. Rumours of Puri fleeing the country with his family have been doing the rounds for a week now but no legal action has been taken against him. Puri and his family had left their house on Tuesday saying that they were going to Delhi but their phones have been switched off for the last three days.

 “Under the Securitisation and   and Enforcement of Security Interest (SARFAESI) Act, 2002 and in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 13(12) read with rule 9 of the Security Interest (Enforcement) Rules 2003, the company issued demand notice dated December 19, 2017 upon Puri Hospitality Services Private Limited and others to repay the amount mentioned in the notices being Rs 24,54,86,235 within 60 days from the date of receipt of the said notice. The borrower having failed to repay the amount, notice is hereby given to the borrower and the public in general that the undersigned has taken possession of the property described,” read the possession notice issued by the authorized officer of Reliance Capital Limited.
 
 
 The properties mentioned in the notice include Puri’s bungalow (house number 201 in Shastri Nagar) and his hotel (Harmony Inn at  ). Sources said that Puri has taken loans running into lakhs from several people in the market but everyone is tight-lipped as they are hoping for his return.
 
 Himanshu Puri, his wife Bhawna, father Tarachand, mother Lovely and a child had left their house earlier this week. “They said they had to go to Delhi and will be back soon, but their numbers have been switched off and there is no way that I can contact them,” said Deepak Bisht, their 18-year-old servant and the current caretaker of their house.
 
 Meanwhile,  , station house officer,   police station, said, “So far nobody has filed a police complaint against Himanshu or his family so there isn’t much that we can do at this point. We have visited their house but they are not there. Unless an FIR is filed, we can’t take any further action.”
 
