CHENNAI: Tourists visiting   not only get to soak in architectural marvels built in the 8th Century, but they are forced to endure poor amenities that do little justice to tourist hotspot’s World Heritage Site tag.

 The Mamallapuram special grade town panchayat charges every vehicle entering the town, but it does not provide adequate tourist amenities including toilets and drinking water. Besides, tourists need to endure an ever-growing hawker menace. The pay-and-use toilets near the monuments too are ill-maintained.
 
  
  
 
 According to M  , president of Tourists Guide Federation of  , tourists are being charged at multiple places but get little in return.
 
 “Mamallapuram is the most sought-after destination which foreigners never miss while travelling to South India. But there are no amenities for them except for two poorly-maintained pay-and-use toilets at the ASI sites,” he said. Foreign tourists contribute more than 50% of the revenue to the Archaeological Survey of India’s (ASI) monuments such as   and Five Rathas. The entry fee for all foreign nationals, excluding those from SAARC countries and  , is Rs 500 per head. 
 
 “But there are five UNESCO-notified monuments in Sri Lanka. Their premises offer toilets of international standards, seating arrangements, cafeteria and do not charges for shooting pictures. But we have fixed Rs 500 as the entry fee for foreign nationals and charge for using cameras and toilets separately without providing clean facilities or seats for the visitors to relax,” Charles said.
 
 Locals said hawkers continued to run riot despite crackdowns. K Mahadevan, president of  , said roads leading the monuments were crowded with hawkers. “A drive was initiated to relocate them. Later another set of hawkers encroached the same space,” he said.
 
 Nearly 11.5 lakh tourists had visited the Shore Temple and Five Rathas in 2017. Of these, about 6% were international tourists who contributed more than 50% of the total gate money. ASI sources said an attempt to construct ‘world class toilets’ had been stonewalled by the Mamallapuram New Town Development Authority (MNTDA). “We began work for a common facility that will have ticket counters and toilets on a plot land at the vicinity of an ASI site. As it was progressing, MNTDA stalled the work,” an official said.
 
 When contacted, sources in MNTDA, functioning under the directorate of town and country planning (DTCP) and owns the three-acre land on which the facility is coming up, said the state tourism department had asked the authority to transfer the plot for them. “The land was given to the ASI for maintenance under the condition that it must be returned depending our requirement. We are yet to take any decision on this issue,” a DTCP official added.
 
 On the other hand, an official with the Mamallapuram panchayat denied that the amenities were poor saying toilets were available at the bus terminus. “Water purified through reverse osmosis is also available at the town,” he said.
 
 
