19-year-old spectator was gored to death by a raging bull at the much-awaited jallikattu at Palamedu in Madurai on Monday, which also saw more than 25 people getting injured. Meanwhile, in Periya Suriyur village, the most popular jallikattu arena in Trichy, 22 bull tamers sustained injuries while attempting to tame bulls whooshing out of the vaadivasal.

 The deceased has been identified as S Kalimuthu, a mill worker, of Sanarpatti in Dindigul district. He had come with his friends to witness the jallikattu, the second event this year after the one held at Avaniyapuram on Sunday. Kalimuthu sustained grievous injuries when the bull ploughed through the crowd at the collection point, where the owners take possession of their bulls. He was taken to Palamedu primary health centre where he was given first aid before being rushed to Government Rajaji Hospital. However, he succumbed to injuries on the way to the hospital. He is survived by his mother and a sister as his father had passed away five years ago.
 
 Seven spectators, nine bull owners and an equal number of tamers were injured in the incident at Palamedu and many of them were undergoing treatment in various hospitals. However, Madurai district collector K Veera Raghava Rao said that only 16 were injured and three among them were grievously hurt.
 
 Among the 490 bulls screened, only 459 were declared fit for the event and among them only 446 were released through the vaadivasal. Though there were more than 1,150 registered tamers, only 927 had turned up. Of them, 227 were rejected. Separated into seven sessions, 100 tamers were allowed to take part in each session. The event kicked off at 8 am in the presence of revenue minister R B Udayakumar and president of Jallikattu Peravai P Rajasekar and convener of Animal Welfare Board of India jallikattu inspection team S K Mittal. District collector K Veera Raghava Rao and Madurai district superintendent of police N Manivannan personnel supervised the event, which concluded by 3.30 pm. Veera Raghava Rao said that this year the number of injured was considerably low as a result of the reduction in the number of tamers sent at a time.
 
 In Trichy, member of parliament P Kumar flagged off the jallikattu at Periya Suriyur around 9 am in the presence of district collector K Rajamani and superintendent of police PSC Kalyan. The bull tamers were allowed in four batches of 150 each. Each of the batches was given 90 minutes to tame the bulls. No galleries were raised near the arena. VIPs were made to sit on the roof-top of a building which was converted into a gallery.
 
 Suriyur village was witnessing jallikattu after a gap of three years which brought large crowds to the event. As many as 25,000 people, including more than 5,000 women gathered for the event, according to the district administration. "But it wasn’t a pleasant experience for the spectators as goods carriers of tractors were lined up on either side to accommodate spectators. The raised platform for the mediapersons too was weak that started digging in without being able to withstand the weight," said S Muneeswaran a spectator from Thuraiyur.
 
 One of the members from Sri Narkadal Ilaignar Peravai, which coordinated the event with the elders in the village, said over Rs10 lakh was spent for the event. Close to 500 bulls and 600 bull tamers were registered for the jallikattu. The event got delayed due to the bull tamers blocking the vaadivasal while creating inconvenience to the bulls to enter the arena.
 
 The event left three bulls with minor injuries after jumping over the running area. Chaos prevailed after police resorted to mild lathi charge to chase spectators out of the running area. A motorcycle was rewarded to one of the bull tamers who came out taming the maximum number of bulls during the event. The rewards included 100 ranger bicycles, 50 gold coins, and 25 almirahs.
 
 
