ARARIA/PATNA: The  , which showed three youths raising anti-national slogans in the victory procession of newly elected   MP Sarfaraz Alam on March 14, has been sent to central forensic science laboratory (CFSL) in New Delhi for detailed analysis, Araria SDPO K D Singh said on Tuesday. The CFSL functions under the Central Bureau of Investigation ( ).

 A Bihar police officer has been sent to Delhi with the video after seeking permission from the court of chief judicial magistrate (CJM) in Araria.
 
 The video, which was sent to Town police station SHO Dipankar Shrigyan on his cellphone on March 15, shows some youths raising ‘Pakistan Zindabad’ and ‘Bharat Tere Tukde Honge’ slogans. The SHO had lodged an FIR against three youths.
 
 Shahzad Alam (19) of Islam Nagar and Sultan Azmi (19) of  , visible in the video, were arrested, but the third youth, Abid Raza (20), also from Azad Nagar, is evading arrest. Shahzad and Sultan’s father run mobile phone repairing shops in Araria town while Abid’s mother Lovely Nawab is the councillor of Araria Nagar Parishad and his father is a paralytic patient.
 
 The SDPO said the accused were not booked under sedition charges as police had yet to confirm the authenticity of the video that had gone viral on social media sites.
 
 “Police will move the court to invoke Section 124B (sedition) of IPC against the accused only after the forensic report confirms that the video was not doctored,” he said, adding some objectionable photographs have also been found on the   profile of Sultan.
 
 He said police are yet to seize the mobile phone with which the video was recorded and forwarded to the SHO. “The trio’s family members have been asked repeatedly to hand over the mobile phones for investigation,” he said.
 
 SDPO Singh said Section 66A of the Information Technology (IT) Act was removed from the FIR as it was repealed by the Supreme Court.
 
 The original FIR against the three youths were registered against Section 153A, 295A, 295B, 500, 501, 505B and 34 of IPC along with Section 66A of the Information Technology (IT) Act.
 
 Meanwhile, the family members of the youths have alleged that the video is doctored and they would not protect their wards if found actually guilty.
 
 
