CHANDIGARH: Rohtak MP   on Monday dared Haryana chief minister   and the ruling BJP to frame youths in false cases, especially those who sought explanation from the state government.

 Deepender was addressing those present at the ‘Jawab Do, Hisab Do’ meeting of the National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) members from Haryana to mark the oath-taking ceremony of Divyanshu Budhiraja, the newly-elected president of its state unit and his deputy Hardik Nain.
 
 The Rohtak MP, who was accompanied by former political adviser to former chief minister   Hooda, Prof Virender, former minister Geeta Bhukkal and other Youth   and party leaders, patted the back of NSUI teams that reported;y dared to question the CM during his programme in Panchkula.
 
 “Khattar and his party had a long list of promises before the general elections. Our youth leaders asked him just two questions. One was related to the promises of employment and the other was related to killing of innocent persons in Panchkula and the law and order situation. They were sent to jail for four days. Now, I dare CM   to send me to jail for asking these questions,” said Deepender.
 
 He also announced the launch of ‘Yuva Aakrosh’ rallies across the state to protest government’s failure in honouring its promises, especially related to investments.
 
 “Haryana has got yearly investment of not more than Rs 300 crore against the claims of thousands of crores made by this government over the past three and a half years. What to talk of providing a monthly stipend of Rs 8,000 to the unemployed, this government had taken away jobs of thousands of contractual and regular employees,” said Deepender.
 
 He also elaborated on increasing crime rate while claiming that the law and order and officialdom were out of control in Haryana.
 
 Deepender hailed Budhiraja, Nain and NSUI for their contribution. Budhiraja alleged the cops had tortured him and made failed attempts to disrupt their programme organized at Indradhanush auditorium in Panchkula.
 
 Courtesy calls 
 
 To activate the Congress team,   Hooda visited Panchkula mayor Upinder Ahluwalia’s house and made a courtesy call to former deputy CM Chandermohan during his stay in the town. Mayor’s husband   is an aspirant of assembly ticket from   while Chandemohan is five-time MLA from Panchkula and Kalka.
 
 
