KOLKATA: The fire incident at a Mumbai pub which claimed 14 lives has proved to be an eye opener for the  . Taking a cue from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) which has razed down over a 300 illegal rooftop structures after the tragedy in Lower Parel which had been constructed illegally, the KMC has decided to conduct a special raid on such structures in Kolkata.

 Though the civic top brass has decided to ask for detailed report on construction of  , shades on the terrace of hotels, restaurants, pubs or party joints from KMC borough executive engineers records kept in the KMC building department put the number over 500 across the city.
 
 However, KMC building department officials are particularly worried over the rapid increase in the number of such illegal structures in the heart of the city. 
 
 According to a senior civic official, building department records reveal presence of 150 such structures concentrated in areas such as BBD Bagh, Park Street, Camac Street, Sudder Street, Rawdon Street, Middleton Street, Theatre Road among others located in the Central Business District (CBD). 
 
 “Majority of the illegal structures were constructed as additions on the terraces of hotels, pubs restaurants or ceremonial houses without receiving sanction from the KMC building department. This apart, the illegal structures pose a threat to the party revellers since the owners have not taken adequate measures for fire prevention,” said a KMC building department official.
 
 This apart, the KMC building department has also taken note of a large number of unauthorised structures along Chittaranjan Avenue, Burrabazar, Hatibagan, Elgin Road, Gariahat and New Alipore areas. 
 
 “We need to conduct a surprise check on these structures and then serve the owners a mandatory notice asking them to pull down the illegal constructions,” said a civic official. 
 
 According to the KMC building rules, the civic body serves notices to owners of unauthorised buildings, both residential and commercial. If no action is taken on the part of the owners for demolition of the unauthorised constructions, the KMC building department’s demolition squad does the job.
 
 Mayor Sovan Chatterjee who is also the state fire services minister has reportedly asked the civic body officials to conduct surprise visits to these places. 
 
 “We need to coordinate with the fire department and police to carry out a raid on the errant hotels, pubs and restaurants. We are now in the process of listing the number of such unauthorized structures in the CBD. Then we will extend our periphery and conduct raids in other areas of the city,” a KMC building department senior official said on Monday.
 
