In the latest episode of   Ishita finds   in a dismal state with a wounded man lying inside the house. Aaliya faints and when   revives her she shares that she had given him some money and when she was about to leave he touched her and threatened to shoot her. She is convinced that she shot him in self-defense. Ishita consoles her and decides to call the hospital and the police to attend to that man. Both of them leave.

 Bala tells Amma that he has asked the watchman to contact him if any girl enters the premises. The watchman calls him and informs him about the same. Amma asks the lady if she had come to meet Bhallas for marriage. She tells her about them and stresses on the fact that   is the father. She tells her that he has no interest in the child and that his mother and sister call the shots inside the house. The lady departs after listening to all this.
 
 Ishita gets Aaliya to Mani's home and asks her to rest there.
 
 At the Bhalla residence, Raman dismisses the lady when he comes to know that she is eager to send his daughter to a boarding school. He makes it clear to everyone that he is marrying for Pihu's sake only. Simmi promises to look for a suitable mother for Pihu. Raman struggles to remember her real mother.
 
 Simmi tells him that her real mother is responsible for the plight that they are in. She tells him that they took him to many psychiatrists to recover from the trauma. Raman says that Pihu is attached to Ishita and ask for her real mother's picture. Simmi refuses to show the picture and consoles him by saying that everything will be fine.
 
  
  enters the scene and says it's not the agency's mistake but their neighbors'. Mrs. Bhalla confronts the lady about listening to the Iyers. The lady turns down the offer by saying that Raman has anger issues. When a dejected Raman says he doesn't want to get married Mihika convinces him to give this another shot.
 
 Next, when Ishita meets the inspector and asks about the man he tells her that there was no one at that location. She thinks that maybe the ambulance took him.
 
