MUMBAI: The home department has approved Rs 5 lakh reward to a 17-member crime branch team that cracked within five hours a Rs1.9 crore ATM van heist in January 2015. All the six persons involved in the robbery were arrested and the loot recovered within 24 hours. 

 The trial in the case has started and all the accused are in judicial custody. The incident happened on January 16, 2015 soon after Security Trans Company’s van left its Lower Parel office with Rs2.1 crore.
 
 The vehicle had five people: a custodian, his assistant, two guards and a driver. The crime was masterminded by Sadre Alam, a guard, with the help of the driver,  . When the van was near Worli Naka around 2 pm,   told   to stop the vehicle saying he had to meet a friend to collect money and asked them to have tea at a roadside stall till then.
 
 There, an aide of Alam gave them tea laced with sedative. By mistake, Khan also consumed some of the tea. “Alam returned within 15 minutes and they resumed the journey. Soon, the others lost consciousness. When the van was near Milan subway on Western Express highway, a white Zen, driven by Alam’s aides, blocked it.
 
 They took out Rs1.95 crore and escaped. Khan told Alam he would act unconscious and stay back so that no one suspect him. He also asked Alam to hand over Rs35 lakh, his share, to a friend in Goregaon,” said senior inspector  , who was part of the investigation team and is currently posted at Malvani police station.
 
 As soon as the heist came to light, Vile Parle police and a team led by the then assistant commissioner of police Sunil Deshmukh—the team comprised senior inspector Deepak Phatangare, inspector Pandrinath Vavhal, Raju Kasbe, Sunil Mane, Sudhir Dalvi and team—reached   in   where Khan and three others were admitted.
 
 As Khan had consumed only a little tea, he soon regained consciousness. “We picked Khan after finding discrepancies in his statements. He broke down and revealed the heist,” said Phatangare. Based on his statement, police recovered Rs35 lakh from his friend’s home. “His arrest led to two more accomplices. As we learnt from them that Alam was headed to Punjab, the Punjab police was alerted. Alam and two more accomplices were arrested at a nakabandi in Patiala the next day,” said inspector Mane, who is attached with Sakinaka police station now. ACP Deshmukh said they also learnt that Sadre was involved in a bank fraud in 2014.
 
