KOLKATA: Akshay Das, a smalltime trader at Sadar Bazar in Barrackpore, was taken aback to find a Kolkata Police sub-inspector standing outside his door on Friday morning. The cop showed him a photograph of an elderly woman, whom Das last saw 33 years ago. It was his mother,  , who apparently left him and his siblings one morning never to return.

 Even as Das looked on in complete incredulity, unable to believe his luck to be able to meet his mother after all these years, sub-inspector   seemed overjoyed that he could finally find Rashmoni, suffering from amnesia, her home. Without wasting any time, Roy quickly clicked some photographs of Das’s house and the residents. A few hours later, he met Rashmoni at the   State General Hospital, where the teary-eyed elderly woman recognized her family and home from the photos.
 
 Exactly a fortnight ago, interior designer P K Bose, a resident of Bagha Jatin, brought 69-year-old Rashmoni to the   police station. “Bose told us he had seen the woman roaming around listlessly. He was pained to see her suffering,” recalled a senior police officer. Ever since, it fell upon Roy to not only get her treated but also rehabilitate her. The long-lost mother and her children—all of them married and settled—are likely to be reunited on Monday. “The woman suffers from amnesia. The doctors treating her have given us the go-ahead. We are happy to be able to reunite the elderly woman with her four sons and three daughters after a gap of 33 years,” said DC (south suburban) Santosh Nimbalkar.
 
 The task though was not easy for OC Subhas Adhikary and his team. Both Adhikary and Roy, who played a major role in finding Rashmoni her home, were helped by NGO Childline’s workers Nemai and Somnath. “When we first found Rashmoni, she was frail and could barely speak. We admitted her to the Baghajatin hospital. It took us a couple of days before we could make out her name,” Adhikary. “Initially, she claimed her name was Rashmoni Mukherjee. We visited her every day even as we spoke to two organizations for her rehabilitation. We asked if she ever had a house. Suddenly, she mentioned ‘Sadar Bazar’. We searched online and learnt about a Sadar Bazar at Barrackpore. When we began talking to her about the place and the landmarks, she could recall her residence and even provided us with the precise address. We could luckily trace her house.”
 
 When TOI contacted Akshay and his family, his wife said they were eagerly waiting for Rashmoni’s return. “Imagine meeting my mother-in-law for the first time after so many years of marriage. We are all excited and nervous at the same time,” she said, adding all the formalities were completed at the Netaji Nagar police station on Saturday. Another relative pointed out Rashmoni was going back to a family, where she had setp-sons. “Initially, we will keep an eye on how things work out at her home,” said a Kolkata police officer.
 
