Vadodara: The process of land acquisition for the ambitions Ahmedabad-Mumbai bullet train project being implemented by the National High Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NHSRCL) on Monday hit a temporary roadblock in Vadodara. 

 NHSRCL officials had called for a second stakeholders’ consultation meet at Mahatma Gandhi Nagar Gruh for the project. But the officials had to face angry protests from farmer representatives, who did not even allow officials of Delhi-based consultancy firm – Arcadis India Private Limited - to make a presentation.
 
 Ahead of Monday’s meeting, members of the Paryavaran Suraksha Samiti and Gujarat Khedut Samaj had already made a representation against the short notice period of one day which the NHSRCL had issued in a vernacular newspaper. “It is clear that the intent of the notice was not to publicize the public consultation for stakeholders properly but to merely dispense with a formality. In practical terms, the attempt was to ensure that the ‘notice’ is not noticed by stakeholders,” said Rohit Prajapati, an environment activist. 
 
 “Even during the consultation meeting at Nadiad, the hearing was held in an unseemly haste with farmers’ not being given a proper opportunity to voice their concerns,” he said. 
 
 As the meeting started at the town hall, some farmers questioned the absence of government officials including Vadodara collector while others questioned the haste in which the meeting was called with only 24 hours notice. 
 
 Hasmukh Bhatt, a leader of the Ekta Gramin Praja Vichar Manch, which claims to be a farmers’ body, started questioning the officials on whether any socio-economic impact assessment has been carried out for the project. “The state government which has taken exemption from the impact assessment study should declare that the compensation will be given according to the new jantri rates, which have not been revised since 2011. If not, we will not allow the project to move forward,” said Bhatt. 
 
 As some members continued questioning the officials, a couple of Congress leaders who were staging a ‘dharna’ outside the town hall also jumped in the chaos after which the meeting ended abruptly. 
 
 Narendra Ravat, general secretary of the Gujarat Pradesh Congress Committee, submitted a memorandum demanding that the next meeting should be called after giving a notice of at least two to three weeks. 
 
 While retired government officers who have been deputed at NHSRCL for land acquisition escaped amidst the chaos, an official from the private consultancy firm continued making efforts to placate the protestors. 
 
 “We have already held personal meetings with stakeholders in all the villages where the land is supposed to be acquired. Also, before four days of this meeting at Vadodara, we had intimated all the sarpanch of the villages,” said D Dutta of Arcadis. 
 
 “Although our meeting here has not met success, we will organise meetings in all the tehsils including Padra and Karjan,” he said D Dutta, adding that if the protestors would have sat through the presentation they would have come to know about the compensation packages be it for land, residences, shops or cattlesheds. 
 
 Land to be acquired in 33 villages, VMC areas in the district
 
 Vadodara: Going by a document that NHSRCL officials shared ahead of Monday’s meeting, land for the bullet train project is supposed to be acquired in 33 villages of Vadodara district apart from areas falling within the limits of Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC). 
 
 The villages in which the land is to be acquired include Telod, Ochhan, Mesrad, Mangrol, Kambola, Bodka, Handod, Khanda, Manpur, Pingalwada, Untiya, Medhad, Itola, Dasrath, Ajod, Padamla, Sankarda among others. Although Monday’s meeting witnessed ruckus, officials from Arcadis said that in most of the villages, villagers haven’t opposed the land acquisition process and have co-operated with the survey. 
 
 
