NAVI MUMBAI: A far cry from those in uniforms, a new crop of   drivers, sporting flashy clothes, sneakers and headphones, are on the rise. Sometimes, driving autos lit up with fancy lights and blaring movies songs, these drivers may possess a valid licence but not the mandatory badge. The number of such nonconformist auto drivers may not be many but are on the rise, say harried commuters. 

 Violations such as absence of uniform or a badge currently earns a meagre Rs 200 fine by traffic cops or a compounded penalty Rs 1,000 for both offences (see box). 
 
 These auto drivers who blatantly flouts rules are not limited to Navi Mumbai but are visible in the western suburbs of Mumbai to the expanding Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), the rural pockets of Panvel besides Bhiwandi and   under Thane RTO. “If the traffic cops forward the case to the local transport office (RTO or deputy RTO) then the twin violations can be compounded to Rs 1,000 fine and suspension of permit for 30 days, as per July, 2017 MV rules of the state government,” said assistant RTO (Borivli), D V Modak. 
 
 
  
 RTOs also have more power in initiating departmental proceedings for badge violations, added an official. Once the vehicle is kept under custody by the transport office, both the licence holder driver and the vehicle owner will face penalty. SP, highway traffic, Vijay Patil observed that there are certain grey areas for policing of both private and public vehicles. The centre is also getting its act together, as the Motor Vehicle (Amendment) Bill, 2017 has included several violations arising out of use of digital gadgets. 
 
 The bill has been already passed by Lok Sabha and is awaiting   nod and is likely to be tabled in the next session. Chairman of the select committee on   (Amendment) Bill, 2017 (BJP Rajya Sabha MP), Vinay Sahasrabuddhe said, “Stringent deterrent action has been recommended for mobile related issues while driving, use of headphones and other aspects.” Staff shortage in RTO offices and traffic department are also pressing issues for the officials to take punitive action against the violators.
