DURBAN:   and   gave a batting masterclass at the Kingsmead Stadium in Durban as India romped to a six-wicket win in the first ODI on Thursday night.

 
 
 Chasing 270 for a win in the first of the six One-dayers, India lost two wickets before touching 70 -   (20) & Shikhar Dhawan (35) - before the third-wicket partnership between Kohli (112, 119b, 10x4) and Rahane (79, 86b, 5x4, 2x6) took the game away from the hosts.
 
 
 
 Towards the end of the chase, when India began playing shots in the air, wickets looked possible for the South Africans, and they did walk away with Rahane and Kohli's scalps. However, by then, with Kohli already having registered his 33rd century, India were knocking on the doors of a comfortable win.
 
 Theirs was a 189-run partnership for the third wicket in which they made South Africa's attack look toothless. In the process, be it Imran Tahir - the world's top-ranked one-day bowler, or Kagiso Rabada - the world's top-ranked Test bowler, India took a toll on them all.
 
 It was South Africa's inability to slow down the proceedings at the Kingsmead Stadium in Durban that allowed India to largely dominate the game, barring SA skipper Faf du Plessis' exceptional century.
 
 In slow conditions, India slowed down the game after being asked to bowl first and when it was time for them to bat, the visitors once again took control of their innings against a South Africa attack that didn't know how to adapt to the slow nature of the pitch.
 
 South Africa won the toss and elected to bat first on a thoroughly flat pitch which promised a lot of runs. In fact, in matches between South Africa and India alone, here at the Kingsmead, results are heavily stacked in favour of teams winning the toss and batting first.
 
 Except that the track on offer here turned out to be way too slow. With the ball taking its time coming on to the bat, India introduced their two wrist-spinners -   and Yazuvendra Chahal - from two ends and the runs began drying up for the hosts, apart from Faf du Plessis' determined innings.
 
 The South African skipper led from the front with a splendid 112-ball 120 (11x4, 2x6) and his innings alone remained an aberration where the rest of his team's batting line-up was concerned. All-rounder Chris Morris' 43-ball 37 remained the next best South African contribution in the team's eventual total of 269/8. Pacers   and   received no help from the track whatsoever and it was clear India had made the right choice in walking in with three slow bowlers.
 
 Du Plessis showed his team the way forward. He wasn't any more fluent than the rest of his teammates, but the skipper simply rode on all survival measures he could put in place for a well-earned century. The spinners had to give way at some point and du Plessis waited to pick on the Indian seam attack. 
 
