In January, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) announced a competition for all the 500 plus   in the city where the parks would be ranked based on how well they are beautified and maintained. The competition and judging were to take place in the first week of February, a date which has repeatedly been pushed back by the civic body. Sources from within the   say that the reason for the delay is that most parks in the city are in such rundown and dilapidated state that they do not have enough candidates for a shortlist.

  
  Mayfield Garden Sector 51
 
 The competition was conceptualised by MCG’s horticulture department and was to recognise the city’s best parks in three segments based on land area – half acre to one acre area, 1-2 acre area, and area above 2 acres. All the parks in consideration were built by either the CG or   and are run by the respective bodies from various sectors. The MCG had even given monetary grant worth up to one lakh rupees to several of the parks for their ‘beautification’. However, much to the dismay of the authorities, most of the parks in the city still remain rather unbeautified and not worthy of being even in the long list. “Most parks in the city have no grass. Kids play cricket or football there even though it is not permitted as it damages flowers and grass. Some even have garbage dumps in them and most have unmaintained benches not fit for sitting. Selecting the best from that is like searching for andhon mein kaana raja,” says an MCG official who did not wish to be named. When GT team visited some of the major parks in the city on Tuesday evening, we found that all of them were lacking in most of the parameters of beauty and maintenance set by the MCG – cleanliness, access, grass cover, plants and flowers, and presence of benches/walkways.
 
  
  Sector 46
 
 The MCG now plans to scrap the competition altogether and work on the parks’ beautification itself. Ajay Nirala, Executive Engineer, Horticulture, MCG, tells us, “Close to 400 parks filed their nominations with us. They were also been given a fixed amount for beautification. We are reviewing the progress and if we find that the work is not satisfactory, the MCG will take over the beautification of the parks upon itself.” While the RWAs stay mum on the issue, residents say not much has changed since the competition was announced. Aarti Singh, a Sector 56 resident, says, “We had hoped that the park in the sector would see a facelift by March, but it has stayed the same. If anything, the trees have shed their leaves since then and it looks even shabbier now.” Raj Singh Malik, a Sector 51 resident, adds, “Even the dumping ground in the park in our sector hasn’t been cleared. What can we even expect in terms of beautification?”
 
  
  Sector 40
 
 
  
  Sector 56
  
  
 
