BENGALURU: When Royal Challengers Bangalore take on Kings XI Punjab at the M Chinnaswamy Stadium on Friday, one could forgive the spectators for wondering which of them is the home team. Three of the top four batsmen in the Kings XI side -  , Mayank Agarwal and  , all frontrunners in the Karnataka team - are familiar with the M Chinnaswamy Stadium, a ground on which their team’s bowling coach and former India pacer Venkatesh Prasad honed his skills.

 
  do have two local players - Pavan Deshpande and Aniruddha Joshi - in their ranks, but their chances of making the playing 11 are remote.
 
 The match is set to be an intriguing contest of batting might with Quinton de Kock, Brendon McCullum, skipper Virat Kohli and AB de Villiers studding the RCB top order. Punjab are likely to match them with Rahul - who scored IPL’s fastest 50 in the opener - Mayank and Karun alongside seasoned southpaw Yuvraj Singh, David Miller and Marcus Stoinis.
 
 After a disastrous season last year, RCB will lay emphasis on striking that winning balance, something they have been talking about since the day of the auction.
 
 RCB, who lost their opening match to Kolkata Knight Riders, have a brittle middle order, one that has caved in time and again in the past. However, one player - if he does makes it to the XI - to watch out for is Sarfaraz Khan. The youngster, who was retained by the franchise despite missing the better part of the last season due to injury, struggled against KKR and the pressure will be on him to deliver.
 
 The bigger worry for RCB is their bowling. Against big hitters in a small park, their bowlers can ill afford to err. While Umesh Yadav was the standout bowler in the opening match, the spin duo of Yuzvendra Chahal and Washington Sundar made little impact.
 
 Known to make changes for every match, Kohli may throw in a surprise or two at the toss, especially with the bowling attack. If he looks for an extra bowling option, he may opt for Colin de Grandhomme, who could replace De Kock. In that case, an Indian player will have to make way for Parthiv Patel as the wicketkeeper-opener.
 
 With a top-dressed pitch awaiting them, both teams will have to be cautious while picking their bowling units. Even Kings XI skipper R Ashwin, who will spearhead a bowling attack that packs variety, will be faced with a similar situation. His choices will be crucial as his team - which won both the matches against Kohli & Co last season and comes into this game with a thumping six-wicket win over Delhi Daredevils in their opener - will look to keep the momentum.
 
