URBAN: The Indian team's One-day plans have undergone a serious tactical shift in the last six months. The first of the six-match One-day series between South Africa and India on Thursday again offered an indication of the plans the team intends to put in place by the 2019 ICC World Cup.

 
 
 
 
 "Daal, daal. Chhey ball isko samajhne mein nikal jayega (Bowl, bowl. It'll take him six balls to understand this)," MS Dhoni was heard telling   out in the middle when 28-year-old lefthander   replaced   at the crease. South Africa were 122-4 at that stage, with leftarm chinaman Yadav bowling from one end and   - armed with his leg-break googlies - at the other.
 
 
 
 India had clearly read the pitch well, opting for another spinner, a right-arm off-break, in   to go along with wrist spinners Yadav and Chahal.
 
 In the last six months, bowling coach Bharat Arun has identified bowling resources and started planning a broader picture for the team's attack: classic finger spin would assist a battery of quality pacers in the five-day format while wrist spin would be India's primary weapon in One-dayers and T20s.
 
 The general idea has been to assume that there will be little assistance from the pitches, and plan accordingly.
 
 First, India began to focus on identifying unorthodox slow bowlers. "Yadav, for example, is a great option. He's still young and has a long way to go. But a fine prospect," Arun said.
 
 The likes of Kuldeep and Chahal have stood out because they taken their chances in the middle. Flighting the ball, going after wickets, ringing in premediated changes - they're ready to try it all. And then there's Kedar Jadhav, always an option on slow wickets. The slower the wicket gets, the more unplayable Jadhav becomes, simply because his ball just doesn't come on to the bat.
 
 His dismissal of   and   around three months ago in the ODIs between India and New Zealand brought him into immediate focus. With an action described as 'funny', Jadhav bowling is anything but.
 
 It is the kind of attack India want to build given the World Cup is only 16 months away.
 
 Outside of the XI that walked out on Thursday, there was left-arm orthodox spinner Axar Patel warming the bench. In fact India have close to 11bowling options from the squad of 15 they've flown to South Africa with. That's quite an arsenal to bank on. 
 
