CHENNAI:  , who had been one of India’s safest bets behind the stumps, left everyone stumped on Saturday.

 At an awareness campaign, organised by Rotary Rajan Eye Bank and Rotary Club of Madras, T Nagar, the former India wicket-keeper pledged his eyes to Rajan Eye Care, only to retract later. “Naan en kankalai dhaanam seikiren, neengalum kan thaanam seiyungal (I am donating my eyes, you too donate your eyes),” he said in the presence of Dr Mohan Rajan of Rajan Eye Care. “The thought of donating your eyes only comes when you have come of age. Rajan is doing a yeoman service by helping others see the light of the world and I realised the importance of this cause. If more known faces like us come forward for this cause, it would be really helpful,” he said. The 68-year-old, however, later told TOI that it was a spur of the moment reaction and that he might not be able to honour his commitment due to his religious beliefs. “I am an emotional and sentimental person. I was so touched with Rajan’s initiative that I pledged to donate my eyes. However, I might not be able to honour my commitment due to some religious values. And not everyone in India honours their pledge. But it shouldn’t deter others in coming forward to donate their eyes,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 Kirmani said, “I am an emotional and sentimental person. I was so touched by Rajan’s initiative that I pledged to donate my eyes. However, I might not be able to honour my commitment due to some religious values. And not everyone in India honours their pledge. But it shouldn’t deter others in coming forward to donate their eyes.”
 
 Rajan said it was Kirmani’s personal decision. “It was a noble gesture on Kirmani’s part to attend the function. But, I am not going to comment on what Kirmani wants to do later. I am okay if he doesn’t want to donate,” he said.
 
 Kirmani, a patron of blind cricket in the country, said being an “unofficial ambassador” of the national team participating in the Blind Cricket World Cup in Dubai later this month, prompted him to join the cause of eye donation.
 
 “I was invited to give them a pep talk before they departed for Dubai. I saw their dedication and determination and was pleasantly surprised. That encouraged me to join the cause of donating eyes. I will also be flying to Dubai to inspire the team further,” said Kirmani.
 
 While Kirmani is still on the fence with regard to donating eyes, celebrities like  ,  , Adam Gilchrist and R   had promised to donate their eyes.
 
 
