Ludhiana: Ludhiana (Rural) police on Friday evening arrested seven members of two factions from a group known as ‘Yaaran Da Group’ and recovered nine pistols and other ammunition and drugs from them, while they were planning a dacoity, sitting at the cremation ground of Bodalwala village. The accused were identified as Tejinder Singh Golu, Akash Kumar Kaku (both of Abbuwal in Sudhar), Harpreet Singh Happy, Ranjit Singh Manga, Lucky (all from near Talaabwala Mandir, Raikot), Mandeep Singh Manni of Professor Colony, Raikot, and Sukhdev Singh of (both of Ram Gali Mohalla). The recoveries from them included nine pistols, of which six are .12 bore, two are of .32 bore, and one is of .315 bore, 28 cartridges of these weapons, narcotic tablets, syringes, two ‘khandas’ (weapons), one kirpan, and three tokas (weapons).

 Giving details, senior superintendent of police, Ludhiana (Rural) Surjeet Singh, and superintendent of police (SP) Investigation Rupinder Kumar Bharadwaj stated that inspector Jagjeet Singh, SHO of Sadar Jagraon police station, along with a police party were present at Canal Bridge, Ramgarh Bhuller, searching for the  . They added that SHO Sadar Jagraon received secret information that the accused persons having sophisticated weapons were sitting at the cremation ground of Bodalwala village, and were planning a dacoity and thefts at ATMs and banks.
 
 The officers said that to confirm the information, the SHO sent head constable Chamkaur Singh to the place in plain clothes, and he confirmed the information to be correct. He added that later, a case under sections 399 (making preparation for dacoity), 402 (assembling for the purpose of committing dacoity) of the IPC, sections 25, 54, and 59 of the Arms Act, and 22, 61, and 85 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act was registered against them at Sadar Jagraon police station. Later, a raid was conducted to arrest the accused, after which they were arrested, and weapons recovered from them.
 
 Police officials said that the accused Tejinder Singh and Akash Kumar are already facing trial in a triple murder case registered at Sudhar Police station on 4 January 2017, whereas accused Harpreet Singh Happy burnt a government vehicle at Raikot in 2014, and has a case against him for the same at Raikot police station. The SSP said there were two separate groups of Tejinder Singh Golu and Sukhdev Singh Sukha. The latter group threatened the former group — in a recorded audio message — against entering Raikot. He added that Tejinder Singh Golu broke Sukha’s arm, and threatened him not to disclose the incident to the police, otherwise he would kill him.
 
 “Their enmity is due to snatching and collecting money by threatening people. The Golu group threatened Sukha not to enter Raikot. Both criminals are taking revenge against the snatching and collection of money by the other group in the area,” claimed the SSP. Police said by arresting the accused persons in time, they had prevented major incidents that may have occurred due to clashes between the groups.
 
 
