Trichy: In a decisive step, the corporation on Thursday brokered an agreement with a private environmental organization to supply quality ‘alternate’ fuel processed from fresh dry waste, to an Ariyalur-based cement factory.

 The move is also intended to prevent the waste from being piled up at the corporation’s dump yard in Ariyamangalam. With the tie-up, the corporation will be able to generate  ,000 tonnes of alternate fuel, as it is named, from fresh dry waste and transport it to the cement factory, for the next two years. 
 
 The corporation has entrusted IL&FS Environmental Infrastructure & Services Limited, a private organization, to reuse the biodegradable and non-biodegradable and the company would also be given 300 tonnes of waste collected from the city for segregation.
 
 Subsequently, the organisation employing 40-45 labourers and peculiar waste processing machines would segregate the waste each day. As the biodegradable waste would be stored in pits for preparing manure, the accumulated processed waste during manure making will be identified along with the flammable potential dry waste.
 
 Following the identification and segregation, the dry waste identified as potential elements for alternate fuel will be further segregated based on calorific value (quantity of heat produced by the complete combustion of a fuel.
 
 Sources involved in the process said that maximum emphasis would be given on avoiding wet and non-flammable elements. Only potential waste having calorific value more than 3,500 KJ/Kg will be sent as alternate fuel to the cement factory, the said.
 
 “The agreement is to supply the Ultratech Cement production plant in Ariyalur with 12,000 tonnes of alternate fuel per year processed from waste entering the dump yard. By doing so, for next two years, we can certainly prevent the fresh dry waste generated by city from getting piled up in Ariyamangalam dump,” K Viswanathan, manager operations of IL&FS plant in Trichy said.
 
 As the city is provided with 23 micro compost yards that collect, segregate and reuse the waste each day, the waste collected from container and compactor bins placed at public spots would be processed for identifying potential dry waste to be used as fuel in cement plant.
 
 “For two years from January 31, 2018, till January 31, 2020, fresh waste entering the dump yard will be reused to the maximum possible extent either in compost making process or for being used alternate fuel in Ariyalur cement plant,” a senior corporation official told TOI.
 
 It is said that the process to supply alternate fuel for cement factory would not cover the waste piled up in the 47-acre dump. On Thursday, first consignment of alternate fuel processed from city’s waste was flagged off by the corporation officials from Ariyamangalam dump yard.
 
 
