Vijayawada: Intermediate students will appear for   in the jumbling system beginning next month. They will take the exams at assigned centres on assigned dates. 

 According to regional inspection officer for Krishna District, Satyannarayana Reddy, about 95 centres have been identified to conduct practical exams.
 
 Notwithstanding protests against the jumbling system, introduced last year, from private junior colleges, the Intermediate Board is going ahead with the pattern. Private colleges’ claim students of government, aided and unaided private colleges are at a disadvantage over those from corporate colleges with the system, and instead want exams to be conducted at self centres. Out of about 1,800 junior colleges in the state, more than 650 are corporate colleges.
 
 The government introduced jumbling system in practical exams to bring accountability and transparency. At many junior colleges, the practical exams were not taken seriously, and students used to focus mainly on the theory part. The government introduced the jumbling system to make students understand the seriousness of practical exams. 
 
 There are about 1,27,783 students appearing for the   exams this year from the district. Of those, some 50,958 will appear for practical exams. While BiPC students will take four exams, MPC students will appear for two practical exams. Satyannarayana said the exam centres have been identified while giving priority to government junior colleges, and then to aided colleges.
 
 One of the complaints from the private colleges is that there are irregularities in the exams conducted at corporate colleges, giving advantage of their students. But, the Board has made it clear that any issues related to irregularities in the implementations of exams will be dealt seriously, and disciplinary action will be taken against the examiners.
 
 Satyannarayana said examiners will not know where they have been assigned until the day of exam. According to the Board, the exam questions will be online, and uploaded about half-an-hour before the exam, and only the superintendent will have access to the question paper. 
 
 
