CHENNAI: Police invoke   powers vested with them to make casual arrests, said  , cautioning the subordinate judiciary to refrain from remanding persons held for petty offences, matrimonial and commercial disputes.

 Noting that bail is the rule and jail is exception, and that persons accused of having committed a crime are presumed to be innocent unless proved guilty, Justice M S Ramesh said: “In view of this well established cardinal principles, it would be appropriate that the investigating officer as well as the trial court reappraise themselves about these cardinal principles and cautiously refrain from remanding the persons involved in such petty offences.”
 
 Allegations made in a complaint may not be of such a serious nature requiring the   of the accused, unless and until the investigating officer came to a conclusion that such an arrest was imminent and absolutely necessary, the judge said in the judgment delivered at   of the court.
 
 Asserting that it would not be out of place to mention that trial courts have, of late, lost sight of the two cardinal principles of criminal jurisprudence while dealing with bail and anticipatory bail applications, Justice Ramesh said: “Though the Supreme Court has time and again reiterated these cardinal principles — ‘bail is the rule and jail is an exception’ as well as ‘persons accused of having committed a crime are presumed to be innocent, unless proved guilty’— it is heart rending to note that even in petty offences, matrimonial disputes, criminal and commercial disputes, police have been invoking their powers vested with them during the pre-Independence era and seeking   of these persons. The jurisdictional trial courts have been mechanically remanding such persons, overlooking the cardinal principles.”
 
 Justice Ramesh made the observations while hearing an anticipatory bail application moved by R Ramesh of Sivagangai district apprehending arrest in connection with a criminal case registered against him for allegedly scolding the complainant in filthy language and attacked him and his father and threatened them.
 
 Bases on the complaint, Kandavarayanpatti police registered FIR under sections 294(b) (sings, recites or utters any obscene song, ballad or words, in or near any public place), 324 (Voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) and 506(ii) (criminal intimidation) of IPC.
 
 The petitioner contended that he had not committed any offence as alleged by the prosecution and that he had been falsely implicated in the case. The prosecution opposed the application saying investigation was still pending.
 
 The court then allowed the application and ordered release of the petitioner on bail in the event of arrest on the condition that he shall appear before the investigating officer daily for two weeks.
 
 
