February has been the cruelest month as far as captive elephants of Kerala are concerned. Six of them died during the month, the last one being Kodumon Deepu, who died on February 27. Neyyatinkara Kannan, a Travancore Devaswom Board elephant who died on February 16, was just 20 years old, while Kunnumkulam Sivan who died on February 2, was only 17.

 Though February has created a record, captive elephants dying young is nothing new to our State, supposedly an elephant-loving one. In 2017, 20 elephants had died in total, more than half of them below 40 years of age while 26 had died in 2016.
 
 As an elephant’s life span can go up to 70 if taken care of well, what are the causes of the early deaths? According to retired veterinarian Dr Sasindradev, the most common cause is erandakettu, a kind of indigestion caused by long hours of standing, with no exercise. The panayola, considered the staple food of elephants in Kerala, also plays villain as the elephant is not supposed to eat just one kind of leaf. “It feeds on nearly 100 types of leaves in the wild, and walks all day whereas captive elephants stand without moving, all through their lives,” he says. Elephants are being transported in vehicles these days to save time, which is also affecting their health, denying them of the minimum amount of exercise.
 
 Dr Sasindradev admits that a lack of enough clean water, sleep and rest during temple festivals can leave even the most gentle of elephants stressed and prone to digestion issues.
 
 However, elephant lovers say that postmortem reports are a joke when it comes to elephants in Kerala. “The elephants are privately owned, and postmortem results are never released. Even if we extract the information through the Right to Information Act, the results are concocted and grossly manipulated,” says  , multiple award winning nature and wildlife filmmaker, who made the much acclaimed documentary on captive elephants,  .
 
 Activist  , on the other hand, claims that erandakettu is just a convenient excuse cited by doctors, and that the real reason is sheer negligence. “A postmortem is never done properly in Kerala, in the first place. One of the elephants diagnosed with erandakettu was found to have a huge untreated cyst in its stomach. I know of elephants which have died of hunger.”
 
 By the time an elephant reaches a doctor, it would already have reached a sad state, says Dr Issa, another veterinarian. “For most of the cases, there is no one to take a decision and the elephant continues in the same state for too long. It would already be suffering from malnutrition and finally collapses.”
 
 All this when a star elephant today can fetch up to `9 lakh for a day, for a temple festival! Why aren’t the elephant owners taking care of them, even if it’s just for the money? Rajeev Kurup, honorary animal welfare officer, attributes it to the fact that elephant owners often have no clue about how the animals are treated. “Earlier, elephants were owned by landlords, for whom they were a symbol of their status. So they were tethered in large compounds and were better taken care of. But now, people who buy them are pure businessmen, who regularly give them on lease,” he says.
 
 
 And the turnover of the elephant ‘business’ during one temple season come to `1 crore, reportedly! The main culprits here are the NRIs, Rajeev says. “How can an ordinary Bhagavathy Temple afford `9 lakh for an elephant? From its NRI devotees, of course. Sitting abroad, they have no clue about the situation of elephants here. They would be paraded all day late into the night, and then made to appear early morning the next day, at another temple. An elephant named Mahadevan died of a massive heart attack after a series of such festivals.”
 
 Despite everything, there hasn’t been a single arrest of an elephant owner so far. “For each unnatural death, the government should hold an enquiry and punish the owner. The majority of the elephants in Kerala don’t have proper ownership documents either,” Venkatachalam says.
 So what is the solution? “As of now, the captive elephant management rules lack clarity. The priority has to be to revise the existing regulations, and continue to update them every three to five years,” says Sangita. “The Kerala Captive Elephant Management and Maintenance Rules 2003 is ambiguous, and offers plenty of scope for the violators to exploit the loopholes. For instance, what exactly constitutes abuse? It should be clearly defined. What exactly would be the consequences if people violate the regulations? There are no penalties, and the ones that exist do not clearly state which authority would penalise. The social forestry Dept should collaborate with law enforcement agencies to book the guilty. The owners should be punished for not ensuring that the mahouts follow proper protocols,” she says.
 
 And above all, there needs to be a massive change in the diet. “During festivals, the elephants are underfed, to lessen excreta. And when they are fed, its the cheapest food, the Kaiyota palm leaves, which are too fibrous, and non-nutritious. Elephants should be given as many varieties of fodder as possible, a combination of grass, palm and corn leaves, as well as fruits and vegetables. In the name of sughachikitsa, elephants are fed an Ayurvedic concoction for a month every year, but it has goat’s meat. They also feed them hundreds of raw eggs, which they never eat in the wild. They are vegetarians and their digestive system has not been designed for meat and eggs. No wonder so many elephants are dying of stomach impaction and digestive disorders.”
 
 Elephants also need to walk at least 10 kilometers everyday in order to exercise and balance their massive bodies. “But Kerala is three times more densely populated than any other State in India, and the roads are congested. So where in the space for them? That is the big question. No matter how well-intentioned the owners or temples maybe, when you really consider the current situation, it is not actually conducive for elephants. Elephants are dying at an unprecedented rate, people are dying, there’s significant property damage. It is a no-win situation.The only real solution is to rehabilitate the captive elephants in a place like Kottoor, or create rescue centres where they can roam freely in their fading days,” she concludes
 
