MUMBAI: Since Tuesday, the   has partially or completely sealed 12 restaurants and bars, including   eatery Haqq Se and the lower basement of Bandra nightclub   for violating fire safety norms. Within 48 hours, civic officials also partially or completely demolished 135 unauthorized eateries and seized 319 illegal gas cylinders.

 Civic officials had begun to crack down on unauthorized constructions in the aftermath of the Kamala Mills blaze on December 29 that left 14 dead.
 
 After a short break to allow eateries to self-demolish unauthorized alterations and extensions, civic officials resumed the drive to identify and take action against establishments that continued to violate fire safety norms.
 
 The BMC has partially or totally demolished around 600 resto-bars and restaurants since the blaze and warned other establishments to comply with fire safety rules or face action.
 
  
  
 The civic chief had formed 52 special teams in 24 wards for the purpose.
 
 When civic officials restarted the drive on Tuesday, they inspected around 795 such establishment and found most were still flouting some rule or the other. The BMC demolished 135 structures partially and served notices to 447 more, asking them to follow fire safety norms or face further action.
 
 An officer said that Poison at Bandra’s  , for one, had permission for a disco in its lower basement. “But upon inspection, we found around 30 hookahs stored in the premised without permission. They had also constructed an illegal kitchen in the lower basement and had no fire NOC. We sealed the lower basement for these violations. No violation was found in the upper basement,” said  , assistant municipal commissioner.
 
 Civic officials said they have demolished or sealed several illegal rooftop resto-bars. The BMC’s rooftop policy licence is conditionally issued, provided fire safety norms are complied with. Till now, merely two such permissions have been issued in the city.
 
 Earlier, the civic chief had asked the deputy municipal commissioner to form special teams in their respective zones to inspect eateries that violate fire safety norms and take required action. Since the Kamala Mills fire, there has been tremendous pressure on the BMC to demolish illegal structures.
 
