It is exam season for engineering students, with their internals happening right now. Yet, when   and   visited   on Thursday, as the final stop on their two-month-long promotional tour, it was a packed house with hundreds of students showing up to catch a glimpse of their favourite stars. The students finished their exams and waited patiently for the stars, who had a delayed flight, despite having another exam the next morning. 
Rakul was all praise for Bengaluru, the city she said is among her favourites to visit, considering that many of her   fans live here. “I feel very welcome here, as you make me feel so special,” she said onstage, throwing in a few words of Telugu as well, much to the crowd’s delight. Sidharth, too, had praise for the Bengaluru crowd. “We’ve been across different cities with this tour, but this has to be the biggest crowd that we have met so far," he pointed out.
 We caught up with the two on the sidelines of the event for a few minutes. “We’ve been on tour for two months and have lost track of days and dates. The only reason I know today is Thursday is because   releases tomorrow,” laughed Rakul. “We have interacted with a lot of youngsters and hope the conversation around the film begins now, after its release. This is a film made to educate audiences about our   and what they do. At the same time, it is also an espionage thriller, in the backdrop of which many other subjects of national relevance have been explored,” added Sidharth.
 The film, said Rakul, sends across a message to everyone to bring the change they desire. “Everyone wants change. The film is about how two different generations perceive this and how their way of bringing about change is so different. We have been travelling across the nation and talking to different students and youngsters, and telling them that since this is Valentine’s week, they ought to celebrate it with love for their country,” she added. 
 On a personal note, Sidharth said that he would love to help fight corruption and bring about a change on that front in the country. Rakul, though, said, “Change begins at home, from each one of us. If that happens, that is a great start. We should be good individuals and if each one of us decides that, then it is not too difficult to bring about that desired change collectively.”
 During the promotions of the film, Sidharth got to visit the country’s borders. “My biggest take back was how soldiers guard us 24/7 in such harsh conditions even in times of peace. There is so much at stake and this has brought in a new-found respect for the armed forces. We are all born and brought up in cities and it was an eye opener for me to see under what conditions they protect us. They endure stressful conditions every single day to ensure that they give us the largest democracy in the world,” he said. Rakul added, “l’m an army kid and I am glad that people will get a glimpse of the real picture through this film. They will get to know that they are not fighting only when they are at the border, but have a stressful life that they lead all the time.” 
 
 
 
 
