AURANGABAD: The local crime branch of   police nabbed a gang of four suspects within 36 hours of an armed that they alleged committed, looting an amount of Rs 6 lakh from a steel plant employee. 

 The crime branch has also recovered the cash, sharp-edged weapon and one of the motorcycles that was used during the crime.
 
 The accused have been identified as Pakya Sundarlal Jain alais Kapil (30), Dhati Kishor Dhaktode (23), Akalsingh Rajusingh Junni (19) and Kishor Bhaskarrao Padul (24). All of them hail from Mukundwadi,  .
 
 LCB inspector Rajendersingh Gaur said, “Kapil Jain has worked with several firms in the Jalna steel industrial area and in an attempt to make easy money, he came up with the idea of robbing the employees carrying cash.”
 
 The officer said that the accused, riding two motorcycles, on May 24 committed the armed robbery in the Jalna industrial area, creating panic amongst the industrial houses that are known for carrying out hefty transactions.
 
 Sunny Chilka, manager of Geetai steel company had visited Bhagyalxmi Steel company from where he collected an amount of Rs 6 lakhs and was on his way to office on May 24 when the bike-borne armed robbers waylaid them.
 
 The accused threatening the duo of dire consequences, snached the bag containing cash and fled from the scene.
 
 In the absence of any specific clue about the suspects, the case turned out to be a hard nut to crack for the LCB. It was following a specific input, three different teams were rushed to Hingoli, Ahmednagar and Jafrabad, from where the accused were arrested one by one.
 
 The preliminary probe has revealed that Jain hatched the conspiracy about a couple of months back and earlier even made a couple of futile attempts. He being a first timer, decided to rope in criminals on record for carrying out the robbery and accordingly hired the three accused for executing the job.
 
 Accordingly a recce was carried out and finally on the afternoon of May 24, the accused covering their faces committed the robbery by threating the duos with dire consequences. 
 
 
