PATNA: Governor-cum-chancellor   has asked the vice-chancellors to formulate measures so that a combined entrance test (CET) could be conducted for admission to   being run by different universities in the state. A body of vice-chancellors (VCs) and educationists will soon be formed to recommend measures for holding the test.

 The decision to form the committee was taken unanimously at the monthly meeting of chancellor with the VCs at the Raj Bhavan on Tuesday. 
 
 The test, to be conducted by different universities in rotation, will comprise multiple-choice objective questions and the selection of candidates for admission to BEd course will be strictly on merit.
 
 The chancellor has also directed that no admission beyond the prescribed seats be made in any teachers’ training college. Besides, payment of honorarium or remuneration to the teachers of affiliated training colleges will be made only through Aadhaar-linked bank accounts.
 
 Taking a strong note of the reported fraud being committed by affiliated teachers’ training colleges in the state, the chancellor’s secretariat has already directed the universities to link the salary accounts of teachers serving in different training colleges with their Aadhaar numbers in order to check the impersonators.
 
 Raj Bhavan sources said in several cases, these training colleges furnish fake names of teachers to the universities as well as regulatory bodies like the   (NCTE). Recently, following an investigation based on Aadhaar number, the Raj Bhavan found that the teacher shown on the roll of a training college was, in fact, a teacher of the local A N College. There are several such cases in private training colleges affiliated to different universities.
 
 To tighten the noose further, the chancellor’s secretariat in coordination with the state government has fixed the maximum amount of fees to be charged from a candidate seeking admission to the two-year BEd course in an affiliated training college.
 
 Meanwhile, welcoming the bold initiative of the chancellor to introduce a revolutionary measure to weed out corruption in admission to BEd course, Bihar Public Service Commission’s former member and   senator Shiv Jatan Thakur observed that it is bound to make a severe dent in private BEd colleges where students are being admitted solely on financial consideration.
 
 
