Bhopal:Seeking her right to quality education, a topper of a government-run school in Bhopal stumped minister of state for school education Deepak Joshi right on the very first day of the new academic session.

 “Why are we English medium students forced to study with those from Hindi medium,” was her poser to the minister.
 
 The sudden question filled the school hall with a disturbing silence. Left with no answer to the girl’s question, the minister pointed at other students to ask their questions. The minister was on a visit to city schools on Monday. He invited the students to share their experiences and woes with him. Making most of the opportunity, Manasvi Jain, a Class 9 student of Sarojni Naidu Higher Secondary School, highlighted the issue in a crisp manner. “Why are we taught in Hindi medium when we have opted for English medium. It would be great if you could please help the school have a separate classroom for English medium students with English medium teachers,” Manasvi said.
 
 Manasvi went on to point out how she and her classmates are being made to sit for classes in a tin shed or under shadow of a tree. Other students too raised issues like lack of adequate drinking water and sports facilities. But except Manasvi’s question, all other issues were addressed by the minister.
 
 Before taking admission to the school, Manasvi did her schooling from a private school. But financial constraints forced her to take admission in government school.
 
 “I came here with a hope to excel in studies, but it seems I have taken a wrong decision because there is no point in aiming for big in the absence of quality education,” the girl later told TOI.
 
 Manasvi said she could not fare well in Class 8 as she had to study her subjects in Hindi medium. “Earlier, I scored 90% or above. But now, I have come down to 70%, which is top score of students in this school. I have managed to top but this is not satisfying,” she said.
 
 When Joshi was asked about the issue on the side-lines of the event, all that he had to say was, “The matter will surely be looked into.” The minister assured students to get all their issues related to drinking water facilities and sports ground solved before May 15. He also announced Rs 5 lakh assistance for Subhash Excellence School after students raised concern.
 
 
