KOLKATA: In a bid to insulate people from frivolous criminal complaints in courts, the   has held that before issuing   to people who reside beyond the court’s territorial jurisdiction, the magistrate will have to examine the complainant and witnesses; he can even seek police help to carry out the background check.

 The current practice is to file complaints directly before courts under Section 190 of CrPC, following which   can take cognisance of the complaint and issue summons to the accused. 
 
 In a recent order, a division bench of justice Debasish Kar Gupta and justice Shekhar B. Saraf called for additional scrutiny when the accused lived far away or beyond the magistrate’s territorial jurisdiction.
 
 A judicial magistrate’s court has a defined geography comprising of certain number of police stations. Kolkata, for example, has judicial magistrate’s courts at Bankshall, Alipore and Sealdah, catering to specific number of police stations. 
 
 The HC order said: “The magistrate has to ward of false complaints against persons who reside at far-off places with a view to save them from unnecessary harassment. The magistrate is under obligation to find out if there is any matter which calls for investigation by a criminal court by examining the witnesses produced by the complainant or directing an investigation by a police officer.” 
 
 The HC, however, made it clear that its directions will have no bearing on cases registered under the NI Act 1881 or cheque-bounce cases.
 
 The HC order came in response to 41 petitions now lying before the Calcutta High Court in which the petitioners have moved to quash criminal proceedings against them. Some of these cases refer to cheating and criminal breach of trust (sections 406 and 420 IPC); the rest are cheque-bounce cases under NI Act 1881. A separate bench of the Calcutta High Court hearing these cases had framed a question for the division bench. The HC single-bench had asked, among others, whether an inquiry is mandatory for a magistrate before issuing summons to people beyond its jurisdiction and what would be the nature of such an inquiry.
 
 Senior criminal lawyer Sekhar Basu said, “It was with a similar objective to insulate people from harassment that section 202 of CrPC was amended making provisions for an inquiry. Making a probe mandatory before issuance of summons to people staying far away will without doubt bring relief to many persons.” 
 
 Senior criminal lawyer Milon Mukherjee agreed. “Since any criminal complaint can be made before court, this order will add certain safety valves before the accused. It will save a lot of unnecessary harassment.”
 
 
