LUCKNOW: The BJP-led   camp heaved a sigh of relief when   defector Nitin Agarwal and independent MLA Amanmani Tripathi turned up at CM Yogi Adityanath's residence on Wednesday for a meeting to keep its flock together ahead of RS polls. 

 NDA partners cabinet minister Om Prakash Rajbhar heading SBSP and   heading Apna Dal were also present at the meeting. 
 
 Addressing the MLAs and party functionaries, Yogi said that with the victory of the   candidates, the   government would gain more strength in   too. He said that the MLAs should be present on voting day and follow the code of voting strictly.
 
 In the meeting which lasted three hours, the party organized a demonstration of the Rajya Sabha voting process and also briefed MLAs about rules of voting.
 
 Rajbhar and Apna Dal leaders had been resenting Yogi for neglecting them but the party leadership managed to assuage them before the meeting. 
 
 However, the absence of independent MLA Vijay Mishra, who has been claiming he would support the BJP, caused some tension in the saffron camp fighting hard for the victory of the ninth candidate in RS polls. 
 
 The presence of independent MLAs Raghuraj Pratap Singh alias Raja Bhaiya and   at the dinner party of SP chief Akhilesh Yadav enhanced BJP's dilemma.
 
 Yogi's meeting of MLAs of NDA partners was a show of strength to assess his party's position for the Rajya Sabha elections scheduled on March 23. Despite not having sufficient numbers in its favour, the BJP has fielded nine candidates. While the victory of its eight candidates is certain, the party is working hard for the victory of the ninth candidate Anil Agarwal.
 
  The BJP is depending on cross-voting by MLAs in rival camps. So far, it is expecting support from murder accused independent MLA Tripathi and SP defector Agarwal. 
 
 The BJP has recently lost two byelections and a defeat in the Rajya Sabha elections would further cause damage to the image of the ruling party in the state.
 
 Apart from the chief minister, the party chief, Mahendra Pandey and the general secretary Sunil Bansal were also present.
 
 
