CHANDIGARH: The   and Haryana high court on Thursday accorded approval for appointment of three officers, including a woman IAS officer the Punjab government, to decide matters related to illegal possession of land in Chandigarh’s periphery.

 The officers included IAS officer Tanu Kashyap posted as director of rural development and panchayat department, additional deputy commissioner (ADC) Fatehagarh Sahib Hardial Singh Chatha and deputy director of rural development and panchayat department  .
 
 While Tanu Kashyap would function as special commissioner and appellant authority, the two other officers would discharge functions of special collectors. They would hear cases under the Punjab Village Common Lands Regulations Act, 1961, for early disposal of pending cases on the issue.
 
 Appointment of these officials have been made by the division bench comprising   and Justice Shekhar Dhawan after seeking consent of senior advocate ML Sarin, who is assisting the high court as amicus curiae in the case.
 
 The bench also made it clear that these officers shall not be transferred by the Punjab government without permission from the court.
 
 During hearing of the case, advocate Sarin referred some media reports in which Punjab local bodies minister Navjot Singh Sidhu had stated that state was considering appointing a former retired   judge, Justice S S Saron, to head a committee to free government lands from illegal occupation in the state of Punjab.
 
 Hearing this, Justice Surya Kant asked the Punjab government to submit a report on the issue.
 
 The matter would now come up for further hearing on August 7. The issue had reached the HC when   resident Kuldip Singh filed a writ petition in 2007 alleging land grabbing by VIPs. Initially, the inquiry was conducted by then DGP-rank officer Chander Shekhar, who superannuated on November 11, 2011. Thereafter, the HC had ordered to constitute a three-member tribunal headed by Justice Kuldip Singh, who is a retired   judge.
 
 Initially, the tribunal proposed to probe illegal possessions of village common land/forest land by the higher ups. In its interim reports, Justice Kuldip Singh had pointed out widespread land grabbing in the periphery of Chandigarh. Justice Singh, however, had disassociated himself from the issue on health grounds.
 
 
