CUTTACK: Patients continue to suffer as ceasework agitation by junior doctors in   medical college and hospital entered its ninth day on Tuesday. The medicos intensified their agitation as they started relay hunger strike since morning. 

 At least 700 junior doctors, including postgraduate students, and senior residents and house surgeons kept away from hospital duties, demanding action against head of urology department for allegedly engaging students in his private clinic.
 
 Bowing to pressure from the junior doctors, the state government on Tuesday transferred  , head of urology department, to   college and hospital, Berhampur.
 
 " Dr Hota will be relieved on Wednesday from SCB. After his transfer, the agitating junior doctors have assured me that they will call off their ceasework and join duty from tomorrow," said principal of SCB medical college Dr Sidhartha Das 
 
 Due to strike of junior doctors, who constitute major workforce in the government-run medical college, patients are deprived of appropriate medical care, said a doctor. Long queues were seen in the outpatient department while indoor patients are also facing a lot of inconvenience, he added. "Doctors are not coming regularly to the wards to attend to patients. When I complained about it, the nurses told me that due to ceasework there is scarcity of doctors. My son's condition is deteriorating by the day. If the ceasework continues I will have to shift my son to a private hospital," said Surendra.
 
 The poor patients, who throng to SCB from across the state, are worried about the situation. "We poor people cannot afford treatment at private hospitals. The junior doctors should take note of our plight and end their ceasework," said Mohini Das, whose relative is admitted to medicine ward of SCB. Despite repeated appeals of the hospital authorities, the junior doctors are in no mood to call off their ceasework. "The inquiry committee submitted its report to the authorities almost a week ago, but surprisingly no action has been taken in the matter yet. Our agitation will continue until our demands are met," said secretary of postgraduate doctors' union Phanindra Swain.
 
 Meanwhile, SCB authorities are trying hard to manage the situation by roping in over 150 doctors from periphery areas and other medical colleges. "We have already forwarded the inquiry committee report to the state government for necessary action. Measures are being taken to ensure that emergency services are not affected in any way at SCB," said superintendent of SCB Dr Shyama Kanungo. 
 
 Due to the ceasework of junior doctors, healthcare services at Sishu Bhawan, a peediatric hospital, have also been affected. The   has also sought a report from SCB authorities in the matter, taking note of a petition filed by a social worker, highlighting plight of patients due to the strike.
 
 
