Valentine’s Day is around the corner and Agrawallahs have geared up to celebrate the day of love. But here is a twist. Apart from spending time with their partners, some of them are planning to celebrate this Valentine’s Day with their furry friends. From taking them to grooming sessions, cooking their favourite food, picnicking in a park or taking them out to their favourite places, Agrawallahs have their plans all set to make the day memorable for their Valentines – their loved  .

 
 
 Rashmi Agarwal, a homemaker and resident of  , is going to take her pet Tuffika to a dogs’ salon and get her groomed. She says "Tuffika is like a daughter to us. She has been there with us for six years now. This Valentine’s Day, I plan to gift her an entire day to herself, getting her groomed so that she looks all good. I am going to pamper her with a nice wash, haircut and paw-care routine."
 
  
  Rashmi Agarwal with her pet dog Tuffika
 
 
 
 Ananya Agarwal, a resident of Khandari, has a pug and she calls him Pogo. About celebrating Valentine’s Day with him, she says, "On Valentine’s Day, I am planning to spoil him with his favourite food. He loves scrambled eggs and I am going to cook the same for him. I am not a very good cook but this is the way I want to show my love for him. He is very close to my heart and I want to express it by cooking for him."
 
  
  Ananya, a resident of Khandari, plans to cook her dog Pogo's fave meal on V-Day
 
 
 
 Kartik Agarwal, a student of  , plans to spend the day with his dog Maggie. He says, "Most of the time I am busy with my school and studies. So I really want to devote my time to my dog.” 
 This is the right time when my exams will get over and I will have a break before the new session begin, I can devote my time to Maggie. On Valentine’s Day I am going to take him out for a picnic and spend the day playing and enjoying with him. As Valentine’s Day is about being with your loved one, I am going to spend it with the love of my life, Maggie," says Kartik Agarwal.
 
 
 
 Pratima Rana, co-director of a city school, plans a day out with her dog, Bubbles. She says, "I will take Bubbles to my school and make her meet all my students and teachers on Valentine’s Day. The day is meant for sharing and spreading love and we are going to do that this Valentine’s Day. It will be a fun day for Bubbles and my students as well."
 
 
 
 Aishita Gupta, a resident of Sanjay Place and a student of  , plans to bring a dog to her home on Valentine’s Day. She says, "In what better way can I celebrate Valentine’s day than bringing myself a faithful companion home? I wish to buy a pug for myself and name him Sherdil after my favourite childhood cartoon in the Hindi version of Courage: The Cowardly Dog. I have long thought of buying myself a dog. With everything falling in place this V-Day, it’s going to be a day full of love with my dog this year." 
 
 
 
 
 
 -- Manika Singhal
 
