JALANDHAR: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has again started lobbying for amendment to Article 25B of the Constitution—an old demand of the party—after a gap of over three decades.

 A delegation of senior SAD leaders led by secretary general Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa and comprising party MPs   and Balwinder Singh Bhunder, former MP Tarlochan Singh and Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) president Manjit Singh GK met Union finance minister Arun Jaitley and Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and urged them to amend the Constitution as sought.
 
 The SAD has picked up the demand in a major way after a long time as it is trying to reclaim its lost ground in Punjab, especially among Sikhs. It was voted out of power in the assembly elections in February 2017, with worst drubbing since reorganization of Punjab in 1966.
 
 The Akali Dal’s vote share reduced from 34.75% in 2012 to 25.3% in 2017. Even the SAD-BJP alliance’s vote share was recorded at 30.2%. Though different Akali groups have been replacing each other, it was for the first time that the party was pushed to the third position in Punjab and lost its core vote bank to   (AAP) which did not explicitly identify with the Panthic agenda.
 
 Even as AAP appears to have weakened in Punjab, which was manifested in the recently-concluded municipal elections, SAD is still struggling with the level of opposition it has to face from various Sikh quarters.
 
 “If the demand is accepted and amendment is passed, the SAD can claim credit and this can help it regain hold among the Sikhs. If ties between the SAD and the   turn bitter, the Akalis can claim championing the Sikh cause—crucial for its political survival,” said a senior Akali leader.
 
 After the   of early 1980s, the SAD formed government four times in Punjab, with Parkash Singh Badal as the chief minister three times.
 
 For a little less than 10 years, the SAD remained an alliance partner in the Union government, but the demand for amendment to Article 25B of the Constitution was not mentioned. Of the last 20 years, Badal was in power for 15 years in alliance with the BJP, but there was hardly a move for getting the article of the Constitution amended. He ducked questions on the issue whenever confronted about it.
 
 “We are asking the government to bring this amendment as in the past attempts to bring a private member’s bill on the issue have failed,” said Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa.
 
