GURUGRAM: Two weeks have passed since the   started its inspections in city schools. But TOI has learnt that in some schools the committee held the checks in a jiffy — everything was done in an hour’s time. Regional transport authority (RTA) officials, part of the committee, didn’t check all the buses and were satisfied with the ones shown by the school transport in-charges.

 Some committee members, who didn’t wish to be named, said they should have carried out surprise checks instead of letting the schools know about their visit timings. On January 16, the draw of lots for schools was taken out by the district education officer, in front of school principals without any representative of the safety committee. “There is no point in carrying out checks in schools when they know about it,” said one member.
 
 However, some committee members disagreed. “Surprise checks could probably have shown things differently, but we are working with the approach of enabling the schools to become as safe as possible. If the schools were to be smart to prepare ahead after the information, we wouldn’t have found discrepancies like those found in a Sohna school by a team,” said  , a member of the safety committee.
 
 Meanwhile, there are some schools who are not happy with the inspections. “The idea of the committee is to improve things and not only find faults. Schools should know when they are coming so that they can cover the shortfalls, if any. Over all, it will improve the safety measures,” said Rajeev Kumar, manager, Lions Public School.
 
 Colonel Pratap Singh, chairman of CCA School, said, “I am a member of the district school safety committee. I have not attended any of their meetings. I am not in favour of   representatives visiting and inspecting the schools.”
 
 The district administration had formed the school safety committee to check security arrangements in schools in December. The same month, it came up with safety guidelines for schools and planned random inspections. The committee consists of school management representatives, a clinical psychologist, officials from the education department, police and RTA, and parents. 
 
 “Safety around school premises is also very important. Any encroachments on the roads leading to the schools should be noted and demolished so that the roads to the schools are clear. Many casualties are reported while children are commuting to the schools,” said Dipin Rao, vice-chairman, Sharda International School.
 
 
 
