Kolkata: State election commission officials are coming to terms with the possibility of redrawing the rural poll schedule afresh. The SEC has already applied brakes on the election process while it all depends on the division ben-ch of the Calcutta High Court if the earlier two phases, nominations and scrutiny, have to be thrown open again. 

 The panel has to keep at least a 21-day gap from the last date of nominations to the poll date, the law says. 
 
 Senior lawyers feel something is “grossly wrong” in Be-ngal that has brought polls supervised by SEC under leg-al scrutiny from time to time. Mira Pande, state election co-mmissioner during the 2013 polls, had a nine-month legal battle with the state government over holding   polls that was finally resolv-ed in the Supreme Court. She had moved court on her own while this time the opposition moved court praying for a level playing field.
 
 Former state advocate general Bimal Chatterjee believes the root of the problem lies in the West Bengal Panchayat Act, 2003, promulgated during the Left Front regime. “The Act has failed to establish the primacy of the state EC in the superintendence, direction and conduct of elections as provided in Article 243K of the Constitution,” he said, pointing to Section 42, which states that “the state government, in consultation with the SEC, by notification, fix the date of poll or polls…” He says the provision should instead be framed as “the SEC shall in consultation with the state government…”
 
 A look at panchayat acts in other states brings out the difference. The Bihar Panch-ayat Act states “the governor on the recommendation of the state election commissi-on shall fix the date of poll”. The Andhra Pradesh Act states “all elections to panchayat raj institutions shall be held under supervision and control of the Andhra Prade-sh election commission”. In Left-ruled Kerala, the Act says: “The government shall by notification fix the dates as may be recommended by the state election commission.” 
 
 Nowhere in the country does a law give primacy to the state government in fixing election dates like in Bengal. “It is not just fixing of election dates. Holding elections includes many more things, including availability of forces to ensure polls are free and fair. The SEC has to ascertain this in consultation with the state government, but the decision has to be with the co-mmission,” Chatterjee said.
 
 The argument has a bearing on the unabated violence and obstructions by the ruling party that have come in the way of filing nominations in many panchayat seats, if not all. The SC took cognisance of the complaint and directed the SEC on April 9 to redress grievances, if any, in accordance with law. The state election commissioner gave a window for nominations but withdrew it within 10 hours after the state government pointed to “legal infirmities” within the notification. 
 
 Senior lawyer and Trinamool MP Kalyan Banerjee held that Section 46(2) of the panchayat Act provides the commissioner to shift the venue for receiving nominatio-ns and extend the date of nominations by a day. “But that has to be done by a single order. The commissioner made two notifications, one on April 5 and the other on April 10, making it untenable under the law,” Banerjee said.
 
 Senior lawyers in the Calcutta HC do not accept the argument. “We need to follow a law by letter and spirit. It means the letters are not sufficient for implementing the law, we have to go by the spirit of it. The spirit of the law is to give candidates a level playing ground,” lawyer and Congress leader Arunava Ghosh said. He wouldn’t buy the argument that a court can’t stay a poll process once it is on. 
 
 
