KANNUR: Three more   workers were arrested late on Friday night in connection with the murder of   activist  , taking the total number of arrests in the case to five. Askar (26) and Akhil (23) from Edayannur and Anwar (23) from Thillankery were picked up from Virajpet in Karnataka following a tip-off, police said. 

 The police have identified two more persons directly involved in the attack but are yet to arrest them.
 
  and  , two accused who were arrested earlier, were sent to four days' police custody on Saturday. 
 
 “Separate teams were despatchedtodifferent locations to nab the accused. We got reliable information that the accused were in Veerajpetta,” said district police chief Shiva Vikram G.
 
 The accused were subjected to detailed interrogation by the police team led by the district police chief and Iritty DSP PrajeeshThottathil at the Mattannur policestation.
 
 Two more persons who are directly involved in the attack on the Youth Congress leader are yet to be arrested though the police have already identified them. With the arrest of the three, the number of people arrested in the case has risen tofive.
 
 AkashThillankery and Rijil Raj, the two accused arrested in the case earlier, were sent to four days in police custody by the judicial first class magistrateon Saturday. Police had sought their custody for detailed questioning.
 
 Shuhaib (30), the Mattannur block secretary of the Youth Congress and an active member of the party, was attacked by a four-member gang on the night of February 12, when he was having tea at a tea shop at Therur near Edayannur, along with a couple of friends. The masked assailants who came in a car with temporary registration number, firsthurledcountry-made bombs and then hacked Shuhaib with machetes causing seriousinjuriestohislegs and hands.
 
 Since the assailants exploded country-made bombs and scared awayonlookers, ittook afew minutesfor the peopleto rushhim tothehospital.
 
 He was given first-aid at a hospital in Thalassery and then taken toKozhikodeMedical College. But he breathed hislaston theway, around 1.00 am on February 13. Four of his friends who were with him at the time of the attack also suffered minor injuries.
 
 Meanwhile, Congress leader K Sudhakaran, who is on an indefinitefastdemanding a CBI probe into the murder, has alleged that his phone is being tapped by the investigating agencies. “They ave also put under surveillance the phones of the journalists who are covering the murder,” he said.
 
