NEW DELHI: The   government has once again slammed the Congress for levelling baseless allegations against the Rs 59,000 crore contract for 36 French Rafale fighters, stressing that it was not a scam like the   one that brought down the   government in 1989, ahead of the Parliament session from Monday.

 “I will welcome it (If the Congress brings up the Rafale deal in Parliament). We are ready,” said defence minister   here on Saturday, while adding that the government had also put its full weight behind ramping up the production of the indigenous   light combat aircraft.
 
 Asked whether the Rafale controversy could derail IAF’s fighter acquisition plans, much like the Bofors scandal ensured the   could not induct a single modern 155mm howitzer for over 30 years, Sitharaman said, “Bilkul nahi hoga (it will not happen). Don’t even compare it with the Bofors case. There is no scam here.”
 
 The Congress has alleged the “non-transparent” Rafale deal was vastly overpriced, violated defence procurement procedures, included no transfer of technology (ToT), and was intended to benefit the Anil Ambani-promoted Reliance Defence as the “offsets partner” of the French fighter manufacturer Dassault Aviation.
 
 Strongly rejecting these allegations, the NDA government says it secured a “better deal” in terms of price, capability, equipment, delivery and maintenance than the one “notionally being negotiated” by the previous UPA regime for 126 Rafale jets under the now-scrapped MMRCA (medium multi-role combat aircraft) project.
 
 In the backdrop of IAF grappling with just 31 fighter squadrons, when at least 42 are required to face the “collusive threat” from China and Pakistan, Sitharaman said the government was “putting all its energies” into making defence   (HAL) deliver the Tejas fighter at a much faster pace. The government had sanctioned Rs 1,381 crore for this in March 2017.
 
 “We are not ditching the Tejas. We want it both for ourselves (IAF) as well as export to other countries. They (HAL) have to increase their production from the existing six to eight Tejas per year. We also want the Tejas Mark-2 at the earliest,” said the minister.
 
 But this will take some enormous work for the long-delayed, single-engine homegrown fighter. The Tejas is still not combat-ready despite its developmental project being approved way back in 1983 to replace the ageing MiG-21s.
 
 
  
 
 HAL has so far delivered only six of the 20 Tejas ordered by the IAF in their IOC (initial operational clearance) configuration, which basically means the fighter is airworthy, under the first Rs 2,813 crore contract inked in March 2006.
 
 HAL had to deliver another 20 Tejas in their FOC (final operational clearance) or combat-ready configuration by December 2016, as per the second Rs 5,989 crore contract inked in December 2010. But the jet’s FOC has now been delayed to June 2018 as of now.
 
 The IAF has now also begun the process to order another 83 Tejas Mark-1A fighters, at a cost of over 50,000 crore, from the HAL. These Tejas are supposed to have 43 “improvements” to improve maintainability, AESA (active electronically scanned array) radar to replace the existing mechanically-steered radar, mid-air refueling capability, long-range BVR (beyond visual range) missiles and advanced electronic warfare to jam enemy radars and missiles.
 
 A fighting-fit Tejas in adequate numbers is critical for the IAF to make up its dwindling numbers. Amid the ongoing political battle between   and Congress over the Rafale deal, the government has scrapped its two-year-old plan to produce 114 single-engine fighters with foreign collaboration under the “Make in India” framework, at an estimated cost of Rs 1.15 lakh crore (almost $18 billion), as was reported by TOI last month.
 
 The government has asked the IAF to widen the competition by including twin-engine fighters as well because the single-engine one would have restricted it to just the American F-16 and Swedish Gripen-E jets. The consequent delay in this project as well as the Tejas production will ensure IAF will not be able to reach its sanctioned strength of 42 squadrons even by 2032 as projected earlier.
 
 
