NEW DELHI:   from Jharkhand and extremists in   have been found flooding the capital with huge quantity of heroin, which is also being supplied to Punjab and abroad. The change in route has happened in the wake of a major crackdown on cross-border drug cartels. Courier firms are being used to supply the   to foreign countries.

 
 Special Cell of Delhi Police seized 5kg heroin worth around Rs 20 crore from three traffickers. This is the second seizure from Manipur and Jharkhand since February. In both these operations, Bareilly emerged as the transit point where crude heroin was converted into consumable form at makeshift labs and brought to Delhi.
 
 Police said youths have started consuming heroin as the crackdown on cocaine has made it scarce and expensive. This year, Delhi Police has recovered more than 58kg of fine quality heroin valued at Rs 230 crore in the international market.
 
 With the Afghan-Pakistan-J&K route under scanner, Manipur and Jharkhand have become the favourite hubs this year. “There are certain areas/blocks in Jharkhand, especially Naxal-affected areas around Chatra district, and hill terrains of Manipur where people cultivate opium illegally. They then process it into pure heroin and transport it to Delhi and UP through carriers,” said DCP (special cell), Sanjeev Yadav.
 
 Several mobile handsets and SIM cards were seized from the drug traffickers identified as Shakeel (30) and Irshad (23) from Shahjahanpur in UP and Jitender Yadav (23) from Chatra, Jharkhand. “On May 15, we got a tip-off that three key members of the inter-state drug   would come to Shalimar Bagh to supply heroin. A trap was laid and the trio was arrested,” Yadav said.
 
 Irshad and Shakeel are cousins and procured heroin from one Sharvan in Jharkhand. Their contact in Imphal has been identified as Nazir. These men are suspected to having links with insurgent groups.
 
 To avoid surveillance, the gang members visited their contacts in person to finalise the deal. They would de-board trains midway while going to meet them and take different modes of transportation to hoodwink law enforcement agencies. Police are interrogating them to ascertain the whereabouts of their associates in Delhi and other states.
 
