The members of the Singhania household fume after learning about Dadi's crime and accuse her of stealing and believing in blind faith. Naitik once again stresses that he wants his daughters to be happy and nobody should tell them anything. They suddenly change the topic when Kirti passes by.

 The scene shifts to   and   in the balcony. We see both of them enjoying a light-hearted moment. Kartik jumps on a balcony and bounces back up. Naira tells him to be careful. Meanwhile, Dadi and Surekha are on their way to their room to place the shank in the room. They are happy that they were able to complete the deed before the mahurat ended.
 
 
 Naira and Naitik return back to the room where they find Aryan.He is once again upset seeing how the entire family is biased towards Kartik and nobody cares about him. Kartik confronts him and asks him what is he doing here. He quickly hides the shankh under his coat and says that Luv Kush hid some stuff of his and he was here to find it. Both Kartik and Naira don't believe his lie and wonder why did he behave like this and go downstairs to confront him. They tell him they are all one big family and should solve problems, whatever they may be.
 
  He, in turn, asks Kartik to not lecture him. Everybody comes out. Naira tells him to control his anger and tells him that Manish could have fallen because of the same act. Aryan says that his death was not his fault. It was an accident. Kartik says that Naira didn't say this and there was no need to blame anyone.
 
 
  
  
  While Aryan prepares to leave, the hidden shankh falls out of his pocket and it hits the floor. Naira sees it. Everybody else, including Surekha and Dadi are shocked as well. Naira asks Aryan how did he get this. Aryan asks them to stop blaming him for the theft and points fingers at Dadi and Chachi who kept it there. Naira doesn't believe him at first but Kartik says that he is telling the truth.
 
 
 
 Naitik once again wonders why would Dadi steal the shankh. Naksh suggests that they should tell Naira and Kartik the truth. He is about to reveal the truth about Naira being thrown out of the house but stops himself. Naitik says that whatever it be, he just hopes his daughter is happy in her home.
 Naira and Kartik ask Dadi about the theft. She stays silent at first but then confesses that she stole the shankh. 
 
 Aryan says that an elder of the household has committed the crime so that the couple is blessed with a son. Dadi confesses to the crime and says all of it is true but she only did it for Kartik and says that Naira's kundli only mentions a girl child and says she doesn't mind she is wrong here. She also says that she also performed pooja for a future son. Suwarna asks why do you discrimate between girls and boys and adds that Naira trusted you. Dadi adds that she did all of this for the future generation and doesn't regret this. 
 
  
 
