It’s only been a few months since this World No2 women’s doubles players from Denmark,   and  , made headlines internationally, after they came out of the closet about being in a relationship with each other. The couple revealed that they were in a relationship for the last eight years in a book they published in Danish, last October. Now, they are in India, playing in the ongoing  . While Christinna plays for  , Kamilla is part of  . We caught up with the duo when they came to Chennai to play... 

 
 Kamilla: It was in 2009 that we met each other off the court. We really don’t want to talk more about it. You know when you have feelings for another person. We felt the same as it would be for a boy and a girl. We were both in the national centre and would practise together. So, we knew each other. It was after we started our relationship that we began playing together as doubles partners. 
 
 
 Christinna: After the Rio Olympics, where we won silver medal, we thought we should write a book. We were clear that if we were coming out with a book, we’d write everything about us without holding back anything and tell everyone who we are. Also, we’re getting older, our careers have been long and good ones. So, we really felt that it was time to tell everyone about our relationship off the court as well.
 
 
 Christinna: When our book was ready in October, last year, we knew that all the international media would know about our story. We were not afraid, but we were interested to see how everyone would react. So far, we haven’t really met anyone who doesn’t like us anymore because of our relationship. We also had the concern that our relationship status might be an issue in some countries we go to play in. But thankfully, it hasn’t been a problem for us till now.
 
 
 Kamilla: This was the first Christmas that we celebrated together. Also, the first one away from our families. It was a different feeling altogether. (smiles).
 Christinna: Back in Denmark, for Christmas, I usually go to my parents’ house and Kamilla goes to her place. 
 Kamilla: But before we go to our respective homes we would give each other gifts on Christmas Eve (smiles). We would make video calls on the day of Christmas and also catch up with each other’s families over video call. Our parents knew about our relationship from day one itself. 
 Christinna: This time, we didn’t have a match on Christmas Eve. So, we had a good dinner together and stayed at a nice hotel in Guwahati. 
 
 
 Christinna: It’s been a really good few weeks in India, playing in the league. Back in Denmark, we practise together every day. Here we’re separated (laughs)! I go with my team and Kamilla goes with hers. But I think it’s also good for us to experience playing with other players. 
 Kamilla: This time when we played against each other in Lucknow, we had some really good rallies during the match. It was fun. But I am not really happy with the scores (smiles).
 Christinna: I think in the end our team was a bit lucky and we won. Earlier, we played against each other in the league two years ago. And my team won that time as well (laughs).
 Kamilla: I really hope that we get to play against each other in the semifinals and settle the score (laughs).
 
 
 Christinna: We didn’t really expect to do so well in Olympics and in the following championships. And now, we are only focusing on our hard training back home to keep the momentum going.
 Kamilla: We’ve our targets set for 2018 — the All England and World Championships. 
 
  
 Christinna: It is quite evident that badminton is growing fast in India. Five to seven years ago, there were only a handful of players from India who could reach the highest levels, but 
 there are many players who’re within top 10 and 15 rankings. 
 
