THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Sreejith’s marathon agitation in front of the Secretariat – seeking justice for his brother who allegedly died in prison due to custodial torture in 2014 – will continue though he received the chief minister’s support and an assurance that   would take up the case. He has been sitting here for the past 766 days with a determination to bring out the truth in his brother’s case.

 “Until concrete steps are taken for a CBI probe and state government stops supporting the policemen allegedly involved in the custodial death case, the strike will continue,” said Sreejith after meeting chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan.
 
 The government assured its support to vacate the stay against the policemen. It said that no action can be taken against the policemen involved in the incident as the case is pending in court. But we need concrete steps and assurances. We will wait for the same, said Sreejith, who had sought a meeting with the chief minister.
 
 Earlier, MPs Shashi   and   met minister of state  , who is in charge of personnel affairs department, in New Delhi on Monday and received confirmation for a CBI inquiry in this particular case.
 
 “The Centre has promised us that there would be a CBI inquiry and an order will be issued soon,” said Venugopal. Tharoor said that they had a constructive meeting with Singh. “We then met Union home minister Rajnath Singh who agreed that custodial deaths should always be probed,” said Tharoor on Twitter.
 
 Tharoor later spoke to Sreejith and requested him to end his agitation. “Spoke to Sreejith to convey the government’s assurance for a CBI inquiry into the incident. Admired his courage and persistence, but urged him to call off his protest now,” said Tharoor.
 
 However, Sreejith sought a written assurance and wanted CBI officers to record his statement. “Assurances are not acceptable. We should have some trust that there is an investigation into the death of my brother. Let the investigation begin first,” said Sreejith.
 
 Sreejeev died in police custody in Parassala in May, 2014. The police had termed it a suicide but the family did not believe. However, police complaints authority, which probed the incident, submitted a report stating that it was a clear case of custodial torture.
 
 
