PATNA: Chief minister   on Monday inspected the state-of-the-art   Police Bhawan, which is expected to be handed over to the police department within the next two months. The building would house the state police headquarters.

 The main building is constructed on ‘base isolation technology’ with 308 lead rubber bearings (LRB) imported from the US, allowing 312mm lateral movement of the building during earthquake. It is claimed to be the fifth such building in India.
 
 The campus is spread in 6.7 acre area having the main building divided into five wings, a dormitory and transit building with parking and eight flats each. Another building on the campus will have an auditorium, a convention hall and a badminton court. Around 300 four-wheelers can be parked in the main building parking at a time.
 
 The CM inspected wing-III, which will house state emergency operation centre for action during any emergency or disaster.
 
 Nitish also visited the helipad on the top of the main building, which also has a CM’s office, which will act as the command centre during emergency.
 
 Building construction department’s (BCD) executive engineer Rambabu Prasad told TOI that IIT Delhi experts had simulated the earth crust’s movement during 1934 earthquake (8.4 on   scale) for strengthening the building’s design. “The 1934 earthquake has been the most powerful in Bihar so far. That’s why it was taken into consideration while constructing the building. Bihar is in seismic zone-IV, which can have earthquake of 7 to 7.5 on Richter scale,” Prasad said while explaining the technical details to the CM during inspection. He said the building would be handed over to department within two months.
 
 The CM also inspected the LRBs installed in the building’s base and asked officials about toilets and restrooms for police personnel in the building. 
 
 The building construction had started on September 29, 2014 and was scheduled to be completed in 24 months. It’s estimated cost is around Rs335 crore.
 
 BCD minister  , chief secretary Anjani Kumar Singh, principal secretary (home) Amir Subhani, disaster management department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit, DGP K S Dwivedi, ADG (special branch) J S   and other senior officials accompanied the CM during the inspection.
 
 
