KOCHI: The Kerala   on Friday banned   by   on   in which former finance minister   is an accused.

 A bench that is considering the former minister’s challenge to further investigation, ordered a ban in an interim order issued on Friday afternoon. As the matter is pending before the court, no discussion by any media — visual, print, and online — is allowed until the next hearing in the case, the   ordered.
 
 While the case is posted for next hearing after 45 days, vigilance and anti-corruption bureau (VACB) had informed the court on Wednesday that it would complete the further investigation in one month and file a report within 45 days.   is probing the veracity of the allegation regarding the handing over of Rs50 lakh bribe money.
 
 During the hearing on Friday, the court had asked how a report filed by VACB in sealed cover came to be published in media. Prosecution informed that the report had not leaked and that the media may be using information from earlier reports that were not sealed along with the recent news. A probe has been ordered by VACB director regarding this, the prosecution submitted.
 
 While ordering further investigation in bar bribery case, a vigilance court had directed the agency to bring clarity on the ambiguity surrounding the handing over of Rs50 lakh. The vigilance court had also asked for analyzing the phone and the SD card containing conversations of members of bar owners’ association. It also said that a detailed probe is required to verify the quantum of money collected by the bar owners’ association as legal fund.
 
 While the former minister has contended that the further investigation by VACB after ruling out a probe twice earlier is unnecessary, the high court had asked the agency to inform it about the evidence unearthed during the investigation.
 
 VACB had informed the court earlier that 16 material witnesses were questioned and 42 important documents were seized during the investigation conducted as per the vigilance court’s directive. Additionally, a hard disc containing the accounts of Kerala bar hotel owners’ association and a mobile phone and an SD card containing the conversation of bar owners association were subjected to forensic analysis. The probe can be wound up once these reports and a call detail records (CDR) analysis report are received, the court was told.
 
 
