MUMBAI: Dismissed Mhada deputy collector Nitesh  , on the run for close to three years following cases registered against him by the Anti-Corruption Bureau and the Enforcement Directorate, was recently arrested by the United Arab Emirates (UAE) police.

 Union minister of state for finance Shiv Pratap Shukla, in a written reply, told the   that Nitesh J Thakur was arrested by UAE police on January 21. The government has initiated the process of extraditing him, the minister added. An Interpol notice had been issued against Thakur in October last year on the ED’s request. The government has now asked the ED to submit all documents related to the case to the external affairs ministry for the extradition process.
 
 Thakur, wanted in connection with a disproportionate assets case and a money-laundering case, has been accused of having amassed more than Rs200 crore when he was deputy collector of Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority. He was first arrested in 2012 and then in 2015, with the   saying he had acquired assets worth over Rs118.3 crore and 26 properties in Mumbai and other parts of the state. During investigation, the ACB also discovered Thakur had received Rs17 crore from Dubai. The ED then registered its own case. It alleged that Thakur had made overseas transactions to launder some of the money he had made through corrupt practices.
 
 In 2015 Thakur fled to Singapore via Nepal and later moved to Dubai. He acquired citizenship visa (temporary residentship) in the UAE. The visa expired in June 2017 and he was making attempts to get it extended when he was held, sources said.
 
 How he got the visa has raised questions, sources added. To get temporary residentship in the UAE, they said, one has to prove that one’s property documents have been attested by the local authorities back home and that these are to be sold and investments made in the UAE. Sources said what needs to be probed is how Thakur managed to get his property documents attested by the Maharashtra government though a red-corner notice had been issued against him. “Thakur has been shuffling between Dubai and Singapore on an alleged forged passport to meet his son, who studies in Singapore,” sources said.
 
 In Dubai, Thakur was often seen in the company of a gangster’s henchman, the sources added.
 
 A senior ACB official said the Bureau had heard about Thakur’s detention in Dubai last week but had been waiting for official confirmation.
 
