THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Manik Sarkar, the idealist Marxist, was with Prakash Karat when the   politburo witnessed a division to decide which political line the party should adopt to battle the main enemy, namely the Sangh Parivar. Dumping Sitaram Yechury’s call for having a tactical alliance with   in the worst-case scenario, Sarkar stood by Karat who saw BJP and Congress as equally treacherous.

 
 Representing a state where Congress had been the arch-rival of his party, opting for any kind of alliance with Congress was an occupational hazard for then chief minister Manik Sarkar. With Saturday’s poll result, Sarkar survived that occupational hazard. Sources in the CPM said if Sarkar changes his stance regarding the draft political resolution, there is a high chance that Hyderabad party congress will amend the draft political resolution as desired by  . “Manik da is a respected leader. If he changes his stand and speaks out, it will be an inspiration to many,” said aCPM leader.
 
  
  
 
  unit of the CPM, which was instrumental behind the Karat-line of ‘Congress untouchability’, will now have to find out more reasons to underline its stand. During the recently-concluded state conference, general secretary Yechury told delegates from Kerala party to have a broader perspective and see things beyond Kerala. Yechury’s warning becomes more ominous in the wake of the humiliating defeat in Tripura.
 
 
 Since CM Pinarayi Vijayan has the upper hand in the party and among Kerala delegates chosen for Hyderabad congress, any change of stance needs to be approved by him. Sources in the party said the loss of Tripura wouldn’t prompt Vijayan to have a relook at ‘Congress untouchability’ as he still feels that Congress is the only opponent powerful enough to defeat CPM in Kerala.
 
 
 The distinction of being the only communist chief minister in the country will burden Vijayan with additional responsibilities. In addition to set up a strong defence against invading Sangh Parivar, which he will immediately have to prove in the Chengannur byelection, Vijayan will now have to prove before the country that the government led by his party is a real and ideal alternative to the neo-liberalistic regimes led by BJP and Congress.
 
 
 The party will have to seriously consider the functioning of the government and lead from the front so that pro-people and socialist policies are implemented by the government in the coming days. With Tripura and   leaving the race, the responsibility to send maximum number of LDF MPs to New Delhi in 2019 will also fall on Kerala. At present, the LDF has eight MPs and the ambition shared by Kodiyeri Balakrishnan (upon re-election as the state secretary) was to repeat the performance of 2004, i.e., to win at least 18 seats.
 
 
 The plan of central leadership to send a national leader to   from Tripura was also spoilt by the results. There is a vacant Rajya Sabha seat in Kerala to which election will be held later this month. Sources hinted that CPM may think of send PB member Brinda Karat, to fill the Rajya Sabha in that vacancy.
 
