CHANDIGARH: The municipal corporation (MC) house meeting on Wednesday failed to lower the paid parking rates in the city despite all the tough talk by the councillors and mayor recently.

 The MC officers refused to decrease the charges, citing the terms and condition of the MoU signed between the civic body and the private company running the paid parking lots in the city.
 
 The house resolved that the MC officials would refer the matter and the cancellation of the MoU with the company to the local bodies department of the UT administration. The officials would impose the penalty for the violations committed by the paid parking contractor.
 
 Earlier, the   placed its 80-page report on the parking lots in the house. Committee chairperson and former mayor Rajbala Malik told the house about the anomalies. “There is nothing smart about paid parking lots. Commuters are facing a series of problems,” Malik said.
 
 Gurbax Rawat, a member of the inspection committee, said, “We found non-functional CCTV cameras in the server room of the company. Also, cameras were not installed at the entry points in most of the paid parking lots. In 19 out of 25 parking lots, we did not find even a single parking attendant to guide or help commuters. Haphazard parking was found almost everywhere.”
 
 Rawat said there was no marking for two-wheelers and kiosks were missing. “Digital signboards were not updating the data and the installed boom barriers in two parking lots of Sector 17 were non-functional,” Rawat said.
 
 Nominated municipal councillors Charanjeev Singh and Ajay Dutta, BJP councillors Anil Dubey, Maheshinder Singh Sidhu, Kanwarjit Singh Rana, Rajesh Kalia, Vinod Aggarwal, Gurpreet Singh Dhillon and   councillors Ravinder Gujral and   supported the report and demanded immediate rollback of the hiked paid parking charges.
 
 However, councillor Arun Sood said since the MoU has been signed, the officers are the implementing authority. The house cannot take the decision to rollback the hike. Since it comes under the purview of the officers, they should be asked to take the decision as per the MoU. There can be ways to negotiate the company on some ground and it should be explored,” Sood said.
 
 But since a majority of the house members stuck to the rollback demand, the municipal commissioner was suggested to recommend the sentiments of the house to the UT administration.
 
 
