MUMBAI: The Supreme Court has lifted the stay on the construction of new buildings in   for six months, with conditions, one of which is that construction debris should not reach the Deonar and Mulund dumping grounds. The stay, which was effective from March 1, 2016, was imposed by the Bombay high court as the city’s landfills were saturated.

 
  The HC’s ban didn’t apply to redevelopment of Mhada, cessed, old and dilapidated buildings, cluster and slum redevelopment, and the construction of hospitals and educational institutes. Redevelopment of tenanted properties in the suburbs wasn’t allowed. Also, the construction of sale components in suburban redevelopment projects wasn’t allowed, thus affecting redevelopment as a whole by making it unprofitable for builders. The HC also wanted the BMC to come up with an alternative plan to handle debris.
 
  
 
 The SC’s Friday order allows the BMC to permit a builder to carry on construction by imposing the condition in the preliminary permission (intimation of disapproval, or IOD) that debris shall be deposited at a specific site approved by the BMC. The applicant shall furnish a bank guarantee of Rs 5-50 lakh, depending on project size. 
 
 A breach can result in the revoking of permission and stoppage of work. The developer will also have to adopt adequate safeguards to prevent the dispersal of particles in the air.
 
 The BMC cannot permit construction unless it locates a landfill and obtains a no-objection certificate from its owner for allowing debris to be deposited there.
 
 An   division bench of Justices S A Bobde and L   made it clear that the order was not intended to set aside or modify the HC’s order. Rather, it was only to explore the possibility of a safe method of permitting certain constructions in Mumbai for a limited period to pave the way for further orders that may be passed. The bench observed that near-total prohibition, though selective, has serious ramifications on the housing sector, which is of great significance in a city like Mumbai.
 
 “It also has a serious impact on loans obtained by developers and builders. Such a ban makes serious inroads into the rights of citizens under Articles 19, 21 and 300A of the Constitution of India. Though it might be equally true that the activities and the neglect in disposing of debris invades the rights of other citizens under Article 21, etc. That issue is left open for proper determination,” states the order.
 
 Laying the premise for the order, the division bench said that primarily, the ban was imposed by the Bombay HC because of the alarming impact of the inability of the BMC to safely dispose of solid waste and debris generated by the construction industry.
 
 It was argued before the SC that construction debris can be safely disposed of at designated sites, whoever they belong to, provided they were available for the purpose. To ensure that the order is followed, the SC has allowed a monitoring committee to inspect municipal records pertaining to the grant of IODs and also visit disposal sites; the panel can also bring to the notice of the BMC any breach of IOD conditions. The SC has said the BMC shall pass a speaking order on such objections within a month.
 
 The top court has directed the BMC to submit a report after six months.
 
 Anuj Puri, chairman, Anarock Property Consultants, said developers were hit hard by the ban. “It caused the construction cycle to increase at great cost to the affected builders. New projects were put on hold. The lifting of the ban comes in the nick of time to save the day for the coming festive season, during which many people traditionally buy new property. The lifting of the ban will help builders announce new launches and begin recovering some of the ground they lost. In a market environment, where almost every decision has been going against developers, this comes as a huge respite.”
 
 Architect Vilas Nagalkar said the order will discipline the construction industry. Developer   said, “Many residents of old buildings in the suburbs were affected because of the stay order which prevented redevelopment (as sale components werent allowed).” Builder   guesstimated that around 700 to 800 redevelopment projects were affected this way each year since the stay came into force two years ago.
 
 
