Over the last 33 years, tabla maestro Ustad 
  Hussain has been keeping his annual date with   on February 28, to put together a   in memory of the late  . The performances, which include a line-up of musical legends, as well as aspiring musicians across genres - classical, fusion, jazz - have always been a highlight.

 This year, the memorial concert was special and different from the previous years, because it also paid a tribute to the late  . Presented by 
  Hussain, the concert, titled 'Shukra-Guzaar' featured musicians like Fazal Qureshi (tabla), Zubin Balaporia (keyboards and arrangement), Rakesh Chaurasia (flute), Ravi Chary (sitar), Sabir Khan (Sarangi), Navin Sharma (dholak), and special guest Louiz Banks (piano) amongst others. 
 
  
  
 The musical evening began with a minute of silence in memory of Sridevi, after which the artistes played a piece from Shashi Kapoor's 1965 film, 'Shakespeare Walla'. Throughout the evening, scenes from Jennifer and Shashi Kapoor's movies together as well as the latter's famous songs were displayed on the AV, and the musicians then recreated those tunes live on stage. 
 
  
  
 Among the attendees were members of the Kapoor clan — Rishi and Neetu Kapoor, Randhir Kapoor and Rajeev Kapoor — who were present to show their support. Other celebrities who graced the concert included, Farhan Akhtar, Imtiaz Ali, Lara Dutta with husband Mahesh Bhupathi, Kalki Koechlin, Naseeruddin Shah, Ratna Pathak Shah, Pankaj Kapur, Supriya Pathak, Dia Mirza, Nandita Das and Vivaan Shah. 
  
  
 Theatre personalities like Makarand Deshpande, Lillete Dubey, Rajit Kapur, Dolly Thakore, Manav Kaul Mita Vashisht, Ila Arun, Ishita Arun, and Anand Tiwari were also seen enjoying the music and dinner party later.
 
  
  
 While the soul-rendering musical acts were the highlight of the evening, Shashi and Jennifer Kapoor's children Kunal and Sanjna, who were also present, got emotional and teary-eyed during the performance, which was a heartfelt moment. 
 
 
 
