JAIPUR: The National legal services authority ( ), while informing the   that only 5-10% of   in the country receive compensations, pointed out that against 3,305 such FIRs filed in Rajasthan in 2017, compensations have been given to just 140 survivors so far.

 
 The state government had come up with Rajasthan victim relief scheme for in 2011 that came into force in 2012. The scheme aimed at providing ‘interim’ and ‘final’ reliefs to those who suffer any loss or injury as a result of crime against them.
 
 From 2012 to February 2018, the state has provided ‘final’ relief to 1,078 survivors of sexual assault and spent a total of Rs 6,78,30,000 towards compensations to survivors of sexual assaults. This includes the 140 survivors out of 3,305 who lodged complaints in 2017.
 
 S K Jain, member secretary of Rajasthan State Legal Services Authority ( ), said that the authority has been actively working to provide relief to survivors. “We have been making several efforts to raise awareness about it. We have been able to provide relief to many survivors. In many cases we took cognizance of news reports about incidents of sexual assaults and directed our district level teams to take action,” Jain said.
 
 Suman Sharma, chairperson of state women commission, said, “I admit there is lack of awareness about the relief schemes. Many people are still not aware of rehabilitations schemes but we have been helping survivors and their families to get compensations. There is some pendency, which will soon be resolved.”
 
 Under the norms of the scheme Rs 5 lakh can be given to survivors of sexual assault. “We provide interim relief for immediate needs of survivor, which can be 25 percent of the total fund earmarked. A final   is also paid subsequently,” said an official, adding that there was recently an incident about a minor girl being raped, the district legal service authority swiftly provided the compensation only in few hours.
 
 As per rules, the compensation from the scheme is given after an SHO or a magistrate sends the recommendation for the relief. The officials said that efforts have been made to ensure that compensation could be given to all survivors quickly.
 
