PATNA: With admission to prominent schools getting tougher, the trend of sending kids to   is becoming popular in Patna.

 While children are spending hours on learning the basics of English and mathematics, several big brands of playschools have mushroomed in the city in the recent years.
 
 Anushree Pandey (29), a mother of two girls, said her younger daughter Priyam just turned two and she wanted her to engage in some creative activities.
 
 “My daughter is very active and grasps things very quickly. I want her to learn the basics, especially numbers, alphabets, poems and jingles as well as the names of fruits, flowers, animals and colours. It may help her in interviews or interactive sessions conducted in good city schools. I believe playschools can help enhance her learning skills,” Pandey told this reporter.
 
 27-year-old Ragini Kumari has been narrowing down schools based on feedback from other parents and criteria like quality of education the school offers, school’s ranking, proximity, safety and distance from home. She said, “I picked a playschool on Ashiana Mor which offers good facilities, education and safety to kids. With the help of an app provided by the school, I can see the live activities of my son whose son Aarav from home.”
 
 The tough competition of getting a seat in LKG in a prominent school has forced many parents to spend thousands of rupees for admission to playschools.
 
 Kankerbagh resident Anurag Singh (33) said he recently admitted his 2.5 year-old son Sourav at a pre-school by paying Rs 29,000 as admission fee.
 
 “I don’t care about the money as far as my son learns to interact in English. He will gradually learn to be disciplined and adapt himself to the classroom environment,” Singh said.
 
 Boring Road resident Pratima, who is also looking for a good playschool for her son Shreyash, seemed stressed with high admission fees. “I selected some prominent playschools near my house, but they charge anywhere between Rs 15,000 and Rs 20,000 for admissions and Rs 1,100 to Rs 2,500 per month as fees,” she said.
 
 
