THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: As many as 100 tribal settlements across the state have been selected for the launch of ‘Samagra’, the Kerala State Literacy Mission Authority’s (KSLMA) tribal literacy programme. 

 The settlements identified by the SC/ST development department include 25 each in Wayanad and Palakkad districts, where the state has the majority of its tribal population. There are 14 settlements from Idukki, seven from   and five each from Thiruvananthapuram, Kannur and  .
 
 As per 2011 census, the state has 1.14% tribal people against 8.2% in the country. According to a Kila ( ) survey report of 2011, the literacy rate among the adivasi population in the state comprising 33 communities stood at 72.77%.
 
 With the literacy classes under   project scheduled to begin on March 1, the selection procedures for preraks (teachers) will be completed by January 31, according to KSLMA authorities. The settlement-level literacy committees will be formed before February 10, and a survey for identifying beneficiaries will be held in all the 100 settlements from February 19 to 24.
 
 Meanwhile, the literacy examination, publication of results and distribution of certificates will be held in June. Successful students will be eligible for higher education through the mission’s equivalency courses.
 
 The selected settlements will have one prerak each, who have passed SSLC and preferably from the scheduled tribes. The grama panchayats will be entrusted with the selection of preraks through an interview board comprising the panchayat president, secretary, tribal extension officer, tribal department representative, literacy mission district coordinator, assistant coordinator and the chieftain of each settlement.
 
 The survey for identifying the beneficiaries including illiterates and school dropouts will be led by LSGD institutions with people’s support. Teams with a minimum of five members each will cover groups of 30 houses, and the literacy mission has developed a special software for tallying the results.
 
 There will be monthly assessment meetings for the six-month project and various programmes will be conducted with the participation of people’s representatives and officials offering support and encouragement to the students.
 
