MUMBAI: In a move that will put an end to squabbling between state-owned lenders over bearing losses arising from the Nirav Modi fraud, Punjab National Bank has agreed to honour the Letters of Undertaking (LoUs) generated by the bank’s employees without authorization.   has agreed to honour half the fraudulent LoUs (amounting to Rs 6,500 crore) by March 31 and the remaining as and when they fall due.

 Banks whose overseas branches had depended on the fraudulent LoUs to lend to offshore companies that Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi dealt with, had been fighting with PNB to get the state-owned lender to acknowledge liability. Earlier, PNB had refrained on the grounds that the bank had not sanctioned any credit limits and that there had been lapses on the part of the offshore banks in lending against the LoUs. 
 
 “This measure will ensure that India’s banking system at large has the least possible disruption owing to the unfortunate fraud and banking operations will continue to function smoothly,” the PSU bank said in a statement.
 
 Had PNB held its ground and refused to pay, it would have created a piquant situation for all banks. The lending banks would have had to classify PNB as a defaulter for not honoring dues. PNB’s auditors would have also found it difficult to accept that the bank was not making provisions for the fraud.
 
 Besides ending inter-PSB disputes, the move will ensure that the loss on account of the Nirav Modi/Mehul Choksi fraud is localized with one public sector bank. While PNB had not lent against the LoUs to Modi/Choksi group companies, it can still pursue recovery from them. This is because when a guaranteeing bank pays on behalf of a creditor, it gains the rights of the lending bank through the principle of subrogation.
 
 In the first lot, PNB has acknowledged 352 LoUs worth Rs 6,500 crore to seven banks. While banks other than PNB will not have to make provisions in respect of loans against  , a consortium of 31 lenders will need to make provisions on loans of close to Rs 7,000 crore made to Modi and Choksi group companies.
 
 Meanwhile, PNB said it will complete integration of its SWIFT system with the bank’s core banking system (CBS) ahead of the April 30 deadline stipulated by the Reserve Bank of India for all banks. This is possible because the bank has upgraded its CBS to Finacle 10 across approximately 7,000 PNB branches. This was completed on January 26.
 
 
