Manipal: Both Kasturba Medical College and   have been ranked among the top ten in the country for the last twenty years. MCODS, in fact, has gone one step ahead to be either number one or two in the last two decades, said Dr H Vinod Bhat, vice-chancellor, Manipal Academy of Higher Education.

 He was speaking during the Annual College Day and awards ceremony of Manipal College of Dental Sciences, Manipal, recently. Bhat, who was chief guest for the function, while addressing the gathering, spoke of the achievements of the dental college.
 
 He took the opportunity to congratulate the constituent unit of Manipal Academy of Higher Education. He said, “I am proud of the kind of things happening in MCODS, and particularly the initiatives being taken by the students.” His advice to the graduating students was, “Never forget three things as you move on in life. One is parents, two teachers and three the society.”
 
 Dr Poornima Baliga, pro vice-chancellor, Faculty of Health Sciences, also spoke on the occasion.
 
  was the best outgoing student and the class topper for the year 2017. The class and subject toppers for all the four years of the BDS course were recognized and awarded on the occasion. Dr Sunaina Puri, Dr Shareen Arif and Dr Prabhjeet Singh, who had successfully fulfilled the Merit cum Means scholarship of MAHE, were awarded on the occasion.
 
 The Good Teacher award was conferred on 32 faculty members. Dr Prateek Patel, former postgraduate student of the department of oral pathology, won the Dr T M A Pai Gold medal for the best research paper for the year 2017. Dr Srikant G and Dr Abhay Kamath, department of oral and maxillofacial surgery, won the awards for the best audio-visual teaching aids.
 
 Dr Mathangi Kumar, department of Oral Medicine and Radiology, was recognized as the postgraduate student with the highest marks at the university examinations- 2017. The ‘PRAISE’ award was given to five postgraduate students who had published their research work in reputed journals, which included, Dr Pratyush Singh, Dr Jasleen Grove, Dr Abhinav Tadikonda, Dr B Chaitanya and Dr Mathangi Kumar.
 
 
