KOCHI: The postmortem report of 29-year-old  , who died on April 9after alleged custodial torture, showed that he had suffered   all over the body.

 The postmortem revealed that the cause of death of was ‘blunt trauma sustained to the abdomen and its complications.’ The report said that Sreejith suffered jejunal perforation (injuries in the small intestine), and food particles and other matters had come out from the intestine (peritonitis). 
  
 
 The bruises became septicaemia (infection into the blood) that ultimately led to multi-organ failure. The report said that Sreejith suffered bruises at 18 different parts of his body. Sreejith suffered bruises at the beginning of the nose, on the bridge and ala of the nose. Besides, there were bruises on the right cheek, right upper lip, left side of the chest, right arm, left arm, back of the right wrist, abdomen and on thighs. There was also traces of blood in the testicular parenchyma.
 
 The postmortem was carried out by police surgeon Dr Zacharia Thomas at   college under video coverage on April 10 for dispatching it to the National Human Rights Commission. It took two-and-a-half hours to complete the autopsy.
 
 The death summary report from a private hospital showed that his abdomen was tense, swollen and rigid when he was admitted on April 8. The report also said that he was suffering from acute pain from April 7 morning following blunt trauma abdomen (damage to abdominal organs).
 
 Sreejith was taken into custody after  , a 54-year-old man committed suicide after a gang attacked the latter’s house and threatened him.
 
 Meanwhile, Ganeshan, a witness in the case and brother of Vasudevan told a press conference that policemen who took into custody Sreejith did not assault him while he was being taken from the home. “The three policemen who took Sreejith into custody did not assault him and they were in plainclothes. But I am not sure whether they had assaulted Sreejith inside the police vehicle,” said Ganeshan.
 
 
 
 
 The   has recommended the home secretary to hand over the custodial death case of Sreejith to CBI. The commission also directed the government to give solatium of Rs 10 lakh to Sreejith’s family and this amount should be levied on the police personnel accused in the case. The commission also directed to give a government job to Sreejith’s wife.
 
