LUCKNOW: The probe by police into the recent spate of dacoities in Lucknow zone has made senior police officials draw the conclusion that it is the handiwork of a new tribal gang. 

 Senior police officials said that the first dacoity was reported from Barabanki on December 23 followed by two more on December 24 and 25. Then dacoits struck in Chinhat, Lucknow on December 26 and vanished.
 
 The gang of dacoits resurfaced and targeted a house in Barabanki on January 18 and struck within 24 hours at two houses in Uttardhauna village on January 19.
 
 On Sunday January 21, they stormed two villages in Kakori area. 
 
 SP (rural) Satish   said that sketches of suspects in the string of dacoities are being made with the help of villagers.
 
 "We have roped in   officials and are also taking advice and suggestions from experts who have worked on tribal gangs," said Kumar. 
 
 The modus operandi of all recent dacoity incidents has been almost similar.
 
  (Lucknow Zone)   has directed all SPs and SP in his zone to start 'night dominance'. 
 
 The ADG has also stressed on mapping of crime-prone areas and increasing patrolling during odd hours. 
 
 The senior officials are also emphasising on checking the new hutments, especially, along railway tracks.
 
 IG (Lucknow Range) Jai Narain Singh said all district police heads must come together and make a database of dacoities which took place in last few years to detect if there is a pattern and then teams can work together and track down the dacoits swiftly.
 
 Villagers from Baniyakheda and Katauli who sustained injuries are undergoing treatment in the hospital and their condition is improving.
 
  "We thank God that we escaped with injuries," said Ajay Yadav of Katauli village.
 
 Meanwhile, former CM   visited the two villages and met the victim families. He said that the government has failed to check dacoities and it seems that Lucknow has become Chambal.
 
 
 
 
 Facing the heat of back-to-back dacoities in Chinhat and Kakori, senior police officials have decided to use phone networking app Whatsapp to ensure prompt communication of any alert and timely action to prevent further incidents. Officials have decided to make a Whatsapp group to connect police with watchmen, gram pradhan and villagers on the outskirts of the city where dacoits have been striking. The incharge of the nearest police-check post will be the group admin. ADG (Lucknow Zone) Abhay Prasad directed all SPs to be on high alert and follow-up all messages on the whatsapp group.
 
