KOCHI: Days after three personnel of the Rural Tiger Force (RTF) he commanded were arrested for their role in the custodial death of   S R,   Rural SP A V   on Saturday was transferred out of law and order and posted to the police academy. 

 Questions were raised about George remaining in a key police post even after three personnel he directly commanded were charged with Sreejith's murder.
 
 Thrissur district police chief   has reportedly been given additional charge of Ernakulam rural. 
 
 Three civil police officers—Santhoshkumar PP, Jithin Raj and Sumesh MS—who were part of   were arrested on Wednesday. The CPOs had picked Sreejith up from his house on April 6.
 
 The special squad, formed in January 2017, was dismantled soon after the arrest of the CPOs.
 
 In a related development, former sub-inspector of Varapuzha police and fourth accused GS Deepak was remanded in judicial custody for 14 days. The remand report said Sreejith was assaulted in the police lock-up.
 
 “Sreejith, who was illegally detained in the police station, after he was taken into custody and assaulted by the first three accused, was questioned and attacked by Deepak, the Varapuzha station house officer,” the remand report read.
 
 The remand report also said the probe had revealed that the sub-inspector, who was then on leave, arrived at the police station late at night on the day of Sreejith’s detention and assaulted the man who was already injured.
 
 The report said Sreejith was taken to three hospitals at least four times before admitting him to a private hospital.
 
 Meanwhile, four main persons wanted for attacking the now-deceased Vasudevan’s house—including Sreejith alias Thulasidas—were still on the lam. Sreejith SR was arrested instead of Thulasidas.
 
 Besides Thulasidas, Vipin, Vinju, and Ajith were on the run.
 
 The special investigation team, on Saturday, told the Ernakulam additional sessions court that it did not have adequate evidence against those already arrested for the attack on the house of Vasudevan at Devaswampadam, and for their role in abetting the latter’s suicide.
 
 The SIT also felt at least seven of the accused persons in the house-attack case were not present at the scene when the incident occurred. The court granted bail to all the nine accused in the suicide abetment case, including Sreejith’s brother Sajith.
 
 In a separate development, the North Paravur judicial first class magistrate court dismissed the bail applications moved by the three CPOs.
 
 
