MUMBAI: A group of corporators, along with a few   officials, allegedly put pressure on a contractor to give up 23 projects in L Ward ( ) for which he was selected through e-tendering, so that a favoured contractor could land them. When the contractor refused, the BMC cancelled the projects on the grounds that they would be started next year. The aggrieved contractor has complained to municipal commissioner   demanding an inquiry.

 “If someone is selected through e-tendering, he should be awarded the work. The allegation is very serious and we will inquire into it,” said Mehta.
 
 Contractor   of Dharma Construction, in his complaint, said an L Ward officer came up with a tender for 28 projects to be financed by the ward corporators’ fund. He said he bid through e-tendering and bagged 26 of the projects. 
 
 He claimed he completed all formalities and even made a security deposit of Rs 16 lakh with the BMC for the Rs 2-crore work order. He said that in all the bids he won, the difference between him and the bidder placed second was just 1%. Deora said, “I was called to a prabhag samiti meeting at the L Ward office, where six corporators were present. They threatened to cancel the tender so that the second bidder could get the work. They intimidated me… requiring the intervention of prabhag samiti chief Dilip Lande. I left the office saying I will not withdraw.”
 
 He said BMC officials called asking him to settle the issue with the corporators.
 
 Recently, the BMC informed Deora that 23 of his 26 projects had been cancelled as they would be started next year. The three projects he was left with are in an area where he is on good terms with the corporator.
 
 Lande said Deora’s father is a longtime friend. “I called the son (Suraj) to the meeting and assured all corporators present that he will do good work in their areas. But the corporators had reservations,” Lande said. “The reason for cancelling the contract could be that there was massive slum demolition in L Ward, because of which many projects proposed there are not required now.”
 
 L Ward officer and assistant municipal commissioner Ajit Kumar Abmi was unavailable for comment. The ward has 16 corporators.
 
  activist Anil Galgali said, “After a detailed inquiry, the BMC chief should take action against the civic officials and corporators concerned. He should file a criminal complaint against them. A nexus among officials, corporators and contractors exists everywhere in the city, because of which the common citizen suffers. The BMC should put their inspection report related with any proposed work along with the estimated cost in the public to keep a check on malpractice.”
 
 
