SHIMLA: A day after holding a statewide protest on the broad daylight murder of assistant town planner Shail Bala in Kasauli, the   on Thursday submitted a memorandum to governor Acharya Devvrat, accusing the   government of negligence and demanding a probe.

 The Congress delegation headed by state president Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu also included Congress legislature party leader Mukesh Agnihotri. To back their point, the Congress raised incidents like rape of a girl by her teacher in a college of Hamirpur district, gangrape of a minor girl in Palampur, where the main accused has not been arrested, and a girl setting herself afire at Nagrota Surian in Kangra district.
 
 The memorandum stated that mockery of law and order has been made under the BJP regime and people of the state are feeling unsafe. It said that killing of a woman officer while executing the directions of the Supreme Court showed the worsened law and order situation in the state. “Kasauli incident showed negligence on the part of government machinery due to which an officer who was obeying the court order lost her life. It is the state government that should be held responsible and an inquiry should be conducted to fix the responsibility,” Sukhu said.
 
 He said that another chapter of carelessness on the part of state machinery was added when the accused hotel owner managed to escape in broad daylight and that too in the presence of police. “It is a serious matter, if the government officer on duty is not safe, then what about common man,” he added.
 
 Sukhu further said that students were not safe in government and private institutions as there have been increasing incidents of sexual harassment of girl students in educational institutions of the state. Agnihotri said that since the BJP came to power, law and order had deteriorated in the state. He said that the Kasauli incident had exposed the failure of the administrative machinery and added that since the BJP came to power, the state had witnessed 20 murder and 60 rape incidents.
 
 
