Nagpur: The orders to shoot the problem tigress of  , issued amid high drama late on Monday night, were on Tuesday stayed by a division bench comprising Justice Vasanti Naik and Justice Arun Upadhye.

 The high court direction followed Mumbai-based social activist Dr Sarita Subramaniam approaching the court through her counsel Ravindra Khapre.
 
 Khapre produced a set of emails sent by Dr Subramaniam opposing the shoot order issued by chief wildlife warden AK Misra. These emails were treated as a PIL by the court, and it directed the petitioners to draft a formal petition in proper format, and present it before the regular PIL bench comprising Justice Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Justice Swapna Joshi.
 
 During the hearing, the government pleader told the court that forest department will not implement the shoot orders. Immediately after the hearing, the message was passed on to Pandharkawda deputy conservator of forest (DyCF) KM Abharna, who has called off the capture-cum-shoot operation for two days.
 
 Abharna confirmed, “Though I have not received any formal court orders, operation has been called off till further orders. We have solid evidence that the animal involved in conflict is the tigress.”
 
 Dr Subramaniam had earlier lodged a complaint with National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), alleging that there is no serious ground monitoring of problem tigers in the division. She pointed out that most of the human kills by the tigers in Pandharkawda forest were chance encounters. There will be no future tiger conservation if tigers are eliminated or removed for human needs, she said.
 
 Dr   said renewed operation is being taken up to capture problem tigers with same experts who were unsuccessful in tracking and capturing the tigers during the last four months of operation. “Why isn’t help from neighbouring MP taken, where there are trained vets, who have tranquillized at least 100 moving tigers. They also have trained elephants and mahouts to track tigers,” she said.
 
 The social activist also raised doubts over the last kill of   on January 27. The beheaded body raises suspicion of a murder case, and police should also look into this angle, she said.
 
 However, Abharna says there are eyewitness who saw the tigress dragging the body of Shendre. Besides, the big cat has also been captured on camera near the body.
 
 In another development, young city doctor   plans to file another PIL in the high court on Wednesday through his lawyer Tushar Mandlekar. Dr Banait had last year twice challenged shoot orders issued for collared Bramhapuri tigress released in Bor. He has also launched a massive signature campaign to save tigers.
 
 In the case of Pandharkawda, the two problem tigers are not collared. Both are involved in the conflict as per the field reports, and since June 1, 2016, 10 villagers have been mauled by tigers. In one of the camera trap pictures a leopard has also been spotted in the problem area.
 
 However, the forest department has no record of six earlier kills, and is seeking permission to shoot the tigress for her involvement in last three humans kills. One human kill on December 29, at Vihirgaon, has been attributed to a male tiger.
 
 NEW TIGER SAVIOUR
 
 Dr Sarita Subramaniam is a practicing dentist in Mumbai since last 20 years, and focuses on endodontics, restorative and prosthetic dentistry. She has travelled a lot and keeps a close watch on forest and wildlife issues. For the record, she is a human dentist but wanted to be a veterinarian. She also does root canal treatments (RCTs) for cats and dogs, and donates all the income to a stray animal charity. Her complaint to NTCA against shoddy monitoring of tigers in Pandharkawda had stirred up trouble.
 
 
