MUMBAI: After recording an improvement last year, the   ( ) exam success rate of both freshers and repeaters for Class XII across the state fell marginally to 85.9% from 87.15%. Mumbai division, too, saw a dip in its success rate, but moved one position up from its bottom-of-the-table position among the nine divisions last year. 

 
 
  
 
 On the other hand, though, the number of students who scored more than 90% increased by 43% to 5,486 this year from 3,819 in 2017, with Mumbai cornering the largest share at 41%. The growth in the 90% club is likely to see cutoffs for degree college admissions rise.
 
 The Mumbai division, which comprises Mumbai, Thane, Raigad and Palghar, recorded a success rate of 84.5%—down from last year’s 85.3%. The only other division to record a lower success rate was Nashik at 83.7%. At the top was Konkan, the smallest among the nine divisions, with a 93.9% success rate.
 
 Board officials from the Mumbai division said they had enough reason to cheer though. “Three lakh students appear for the HSC exam from Mumbai while in Konkan division the number is just about 33,000. That explains the difference in the success rate. But students from Mumbai are doing extremely well as we have the maximum number of students who scored more than 90%,” said Subhash Borse, in-charge secretary, Mumbai division, Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education. As many as 2,288 students in Mumbai scored over 90%—up from last year’s 1,701.
 
 Borse added that a large number of private candidates appeared from the division, which was partially responsible for the lower success rate. “We had over 27,000 students appearing privately. A lot of students fill up exam forms at the last minute,” he said.
 
 Dyaneshwar Doke, head, M L Dahanukar College, blamed Mumbai’s rank among other state divisions to the fact that the city has a mixed bunch of students, many whom work during the day and attend night college, as also those who come from the slums. “The number of repeaters needs to be considered too. Yet, against all those odds, they want an education and want to perform,” he added. The success rate of fresh candidates in the division was 87.4% while that of repeaters was just 37%.
 
 Continuing the trend, girls outperformed boys by a huge margin. In the state, as 90.2% girls passed the exam against 82.1% boys. Similarly, in Mumbai, 88.9% girls passed the exam while only 80.6% of boys cleared it.
 
 The highest known top score of 96.9% from the Science stream in Mumbai was marginally higher than last year’s 96.46%. Similar was the case with the commerce stream. Uma Shankar, principal, SIES college, Sion, said the overall results in Mumbai colleges were heartening. “Yet we see that Mumbai as a division is lying low among others as there are overall so many students. But we also have the maximum number of students who have crossed the 90% score,” she added.
 
 Similarly, at Jai Hind College, Churchgate, more students bagged a higher score. “Across all streams and other colleges in the city, the scores seem to have improved. But the students haven’t matched their peers from other boards. While it is great to see improved scores, we need to introspect and bring uniformity among boards,” said principal, Ashok Wadia. Apart from the 90% plus club soaring, the state and division have seen an increase in number of students with distinction as well.
 
 
