KOLKATA: If   was the match-winner inside the   on Sunday, the night bus service was adjudged the ‘Man of the Match’ outside it.

 Spectators who availed of the bus service gave a thumbs up to the initiative. While some said they were touched by the arrangements (they have had to return home in goods vehicles last year), there were others who felt proud seeing “such improvement in their city”.
 
 
  
 “It was a pleasant surprise. I never expected to see so many buses parked in Esplanade to ferry spectators back home,” said  , who had come to watch the match with her friends. “There were so many buses leaving for several parts of the city and Howrah. I have come to watch   matches several times but never witnessed such transport arrangements.”
 
 Many had scoffed at the idea of a night bus service when the government introduced it last month. The IPL match on Sunday was the first proper test for it. The sleek new buses were parked at several points in Esplanade much before the match ended. While some buses were parked inside the terminus in Esplanade, some were parked at Dorina crossing,  , in front of KC Das and Tipu Sultan mosque.
 
 “We had parked the buses at different points, depending on the direction they will be going to avoid rush and bottlenecks,” said a transport official.
 
 “I am a big SRK fan and could not afford to leave without seeing his victory lap. But deep inside, I was worried about the transportation if I was late. But when I saw so many buses at Esplanade, I was relieved,” said  , a resident of Jodhpur Park. Many female commuters TOI spoke to on Sunday night said that presence of so many buses gave them asense of security.
 
 “When I saw a government bus on my route at 12.30am, I felt so reassured. I felt proud too that somebody in the administration feels it is important to arrange for safe transport for spectators,” said  , a resident of Patuli. She went ahead to say if the frequency of such buses were increased on other nights, it would make women feel more safer when they step out at nights.
 
