LUDHIANA: In the new MC house, female councillors have been given 50% reservation this time, and out of a total 95 councillors, 47 will be women. It is a well-known fact that female councillors have remained rubber stamps, and their male counterparts have been performing their roles for the past several years. Though it is to be seen whether this time female councillors are able to change this perception, some of them who entered the MC house have performed the duties of councillors through their husbands, or other male members who were councillors in the past. 
 
 These women councillors included Manju Aggarwal (wife of ex-BJP councillor  ),   (mother of former deputy mayor RD Sharma), Indu Thapar (wife of ex-councillor Raju Thapar), Rashi Aggarwal (daughter-in-law of ex-councillor Hemraj Aggarwal), and   (wife of ex-councillor and AAP district president Daljit Singh Grewal). 
  
 Manju Aggarwal said she had been given the chance for the first time, but she had seen her husband working for the betterment of the area in the past five years, so she would walk on his footsteps. She said though her husband would always be there for her support, she would like to act on her own in the MC house, instead of sitting silent in one corner. 
  
 Echoing the same, Balwinder Kaur (the lone AAP candidate who won the polls) said her husband remained an active councillor, and also contested state elections, so she had experienced the kind of works a councillor does for people. She said she would work on her own and set a new example for other women councillors as well. BJP councillor Prem Sharma (who remained a councillor from 2007 to 2012) said it was not a new field for her, as she was active in her previous term, and in the current one too, she would perform her role well. 
  
 However, there were a few ex-women councillors like Ninderjit Kaur Dhillon (wife of ex-SAD MLA Ranjit Dhillon), Paramjit Kaur Shivalik (wife of ex-SAD MLA  ), and   (wife of ex-BJP councillor Narinder Malhi), who could not make it to the MC house this time, and lost the polls. 
  
  
