HYDERABAD: The   (SATS) has slapped a notice on   (FMC) to pay ?43 crore rent, which it says has been unpaid since 2009. The rent is due for over 40,000 square feet space and another 26,000 square feet open space being utilised by FMC for parking at  , owned by SATS.

 
  
 
 The notice was served a couple of weeks ago and asked the club to respond within 15 days. Failure to respond to the notice will result in “legal proceedings against FMC for recovery of the same making all concerned jointly and severally liable for all consequences,” the notice served by SATS estate and legal officer read.
 
 According to SATS, FMC is not only a defaulter, but also a wilful defaulter in payment of rents to the authority. It has also a committed breach of terms and conditions of tenancy and all mutually agreed upon understandings, correspondence and assurances given from time to time. “The club was allotted 40,000 sqft area. But it has illegally occupied 4,000 sqft built up area and 9,000 sqft open areas than allotted which is also to be charged,” a senior SATS official said.
 
 Both the SATS, which was Sports Authority of Andhra Pradesh (SAAP) before the bifurcation, and FMC, have been at loggerheads for the past few years over the rent. While the sports authority has been demanding that the club pay a rent of ?16,000 to ?18,000 per month along with ?500 for the parking area, the club management has been arguing that it has been part of the erstwhile sports council and there was no rental agreement between the two parties, as a result there is no need to pay any rent.
 
 SATS officials say the premises of LB Stadium was let out to FMC by the then AP Sports Council in April 1963 for a monthly rent of ?5,117. In late 2000s, the monthly rent was raised to ?16,000 for the built up area and ?500 for parking area per month at the rate of ?45 per square feet. SATS officials say there is a provision in the agreement that the rent would be increased by 20% every three years.
 
 “Though the authority has been writing letters to FMC management from time to time, the FMC has not been responding to the notices, including the latest notice. A report will be sent to the state government to initiate further action,” SATS vice chairman and managing director, A  , told TOI.
 
 Despite repeated attempts, FMC management did not respond to calls from TOI. However, a member of the managing committee on condition of anonymity said FMC is seeking legal advice on its future course of action in the wake of the notice from SATS.
 
