For the   connoisseurs of the State, the faces of   and the rousing rhythms of their   would be familiar. With their chendas on the shoulders and the kol in their hands, these young brothers, who are still in their teens, have staged performances throughout the length and breadth of Kerala and even outside. Interestingly, the love for the instrument wasn't something forced on them by others but something they themselves developed, right at a young age. In conversation with Anantha Krishnan, 19, and Aravind, 16.

 “My mom says that even when I was a baby, I used to keep drumming around in the house and could make a rhythm,” recalls Anantha Krishnan, a first year B.Com student at Christian College, Kattakada. With his mom S Bindumani, who works in the tourism department and dad B Sajeevas Kumar, who works with the KSRTC, he would attend all chenda melam performances in Thiruvananthapuram, even as a little boy. “I remember enjoying chenda melams for Onam, in front of the Kanakakkunnu Palace and many other places. Soon, I started pestering my parents to send me for classes. They did, when I was around seven years old and Aravind, five. We started off our training at Margi and ever since, it has been an integral part of our lives," Anantha Krishnan recalls.
 
 Meanwhile for Aravind, following his brother to the chenda class was a natural choice. “We have always done things together, be it studying classical music or the chenda. I started off tagging along with my brother and was real scared of our gurus, but over time I grew to love the instrument,” says the Class 11 student. The brothers say that their parallel training in classical music has helped them sync the percussion well with music, in group performances.
 
 Kalamandalam Krishnadas is their guru at the moment and the boys say they owe their skills in thayambaka to him. “He has been teaching us for about 10 years, and it’s a lot of fun to learn from him,” says Aravind.
 
 The brothers have performed together in over 200 stages now, in Kerala, and in cities like Chennai, Bengaluru, Delhi and Goa. They have also shared the stage for fusion performances with artistes of other musical disciplines, such as Stephen Devassy. Anantha Krishnan says, “It was in 2015 that we first performed fusion, with violin sisters Lalitha and Nandini. At a camp of the Centre for Cultural Resources and Training (CCRT) in Chennai, they happened to guide us for a performance. Later, when they performed in Thiruvananthapuram too, they took us on board. It was in that period that we understood how we too can contribute in a fusion space.” They have also performed with numerous accomplished musicians like Padmabhushan Umayalpuram K Sivaraman, sitarist Ravi Chary, Carnatic vocalist Sreeranjini Kodampally, chenda maestro Mattannoor Sankarankutty, harmonium — keyboard artiste Prakash Ulliyeri and drummer Gino Banks.
 
 What’s it like to perform with one’s brother on the stage? “It’s a lot easier than with someone else,” they say in unison. “We understand each other’s gestures and techniques very well as we have been learning and practising together. It also makes it easier to try something new while performing and there is never an attempt to dominate the other,” Anantha Krishnan says. They also attribute their journey so far to the immense support from their parents. “Be it a performance, giving our exams a miss or to take part in a competition, they have always stood by us,” he adds.
 
 However, the brothers say that chenda’s visibility should not remain restricted to our State. “We should do what it takes to popularise it outside too. There are times non-Malayalis have expressed their surprise when they see the chenda, and even reduce it to a folk instrument. Some say that their ears get deafened by the sound. Most people don’t know that we can create the sound as soft as water droplets too, with the same instrument,” Aravind says.
 
 However, they don’t want to depend on the chenda for their livelihood and want to study further and earn a job. “Not that we look down on it, but the field of art can be uncertain and it is always wise to study hard, get a good education and have a career. The chenda shouldn’t get reduced to our source of income, ever,” they sign off.
 
