NEW DELHI: A   allegedly committed suicide after jumping off the sixth floor CGO complex in south Delhi, after a raid was conducted at offices of jewellers in different parts of the city. The floor of the building also has the office of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence.   officials say that the man was neither called for questioning nor arrested after the raid.

 The incident was reported around 1.30pm when employees of the complex heard a thud and found the man, identified as Gaurav  , lying face down in a pool of blood. He was taken to   where he was declared dead on arrival. Police said that his family was contacted from his mobile phone found in his pocket.
 
 According to the DRI officials, a   was conducted at the offices of jewellers in   on April 24. During the search, the officials found 6kgs of foreign marked gold and 213 bullions from one of the offices. During another search on Wednesday, the officers found gold and silver worth Rs 13 crore stored in a door panel at Gupta’s office that was seized and taken to the CGO complex office. Gupta and his father had followed the DRI officials and had been camping at the vistors’ room .
 
 Cops are probing how he had managed to climb up to window at the visitor’s room inside the DRI office. Sources say that the building is accessible only after a three tier checking by the CISF. The body has been sent for an autopsy and would be handed over to the family on Thursday.
 
 Delhi Police is treating the case as a custodial death. Though no summons were issued, cops are probing who allowed Gaurav Gupta and his father to enter DRI office, and who issued the visitors pass allowing them access to sixth floor. The floor is only accessible to people summoned by the DRI.
 
 Cops have also found a visitors entry pass to the CGO complex and some documents with him, which are being scanned to identify his purpose of visit. The DRI officials attending the visitors would be questioned by the cops. 
 
 Eyewitnesses say that though most of the windows of the building are sealed, a few on the sixth and eighth floor remain open. A probe under section 174 CrPC has been initiated to find out the reason behind the suicide.
 
 Police said that Gupta stays with his family at Shalimar Bagh and has two children.
 
 
