NEW DELHI: Uncertainity prevails over the fate of disqualified AAP   from Najafgarh, Kailash  , who holds the law portfolio in the government. Experts are unsure whether he can continue in office, or should step down.

 Class IV of Article 164 of the Constitution clearly states that a person can only continue as a minister for six months, unless within that period, he/she gets elected as a member of the legislature. But this provision refers to a non-member who has been made a minister, and is silent on the fate of an MP/MLA who was a minister to begin with, but stands disqualified now. While Article 191 is clear that holding an office of profit disqualifies the person from being an MP or MLA, there is little clarity on what happens to the portfolio.
 
 While experts opine that Gahlot’s continuance as minister is open to legal challenge, the government maintains that even a disqualified MLA enjoys the six-month window till election, which is, otherwise, available to a non-member who gets appointed as a minister.
 
 Former additional solicitor general Raju Ramchandran conceded that it was a grey area. “To the best of my knowledge, there is nothing in the Constitution on a minister disqualified under office of profit rules,” he said. A senior judge pointed out that courts may have to step in to harmonise provisions of the Constitution, the Representation of People’s Act and other laws on this point.
 
 Constitutional expert and former Lok Sabha secretary general Subhash C Kashyap, said: “He (Gahlot) was appointed a minister because he was a member (MLA). Now that he has been disqualified as member, common sense says he should no longer be a minister.” Explaining the legal position, he said: “The Constitution talks of the appointment of a non-member as a minister and, then, allows him/her to get elected within six months. In this case, that provision cannot be applied as he is a disqualified member. The Constitution does not talk of a disqualified member becoming a minister.”
 
 He added that even if Gahlot were to resign and the government were to seek his appointment as a non-member for the post of minister, it was unlikely to hold ground. “The LG’s approval will be required in that case and I don’t think the LG would give his approval, as this involves a disqualified MLA and not just another non-member,” Kashyap said. 
 
 Former secretary of Delhi assembly S K Sharma, too, said that Gahlot could not continue as a minister. “Going by my understanding of the Constitution, Gahlot is now like a trespasser in the government. All decisions he takes can be challenged in court,” Sharma said.
 
 After a turbulent week, the Delhi secretariat on Monday reflected the sense of uncertainty. Meetings were lined up and minister Gahlot came to work, but a scheduled transport review was postponed. Gahlot left office around 3pm, triggering speculation. But sources insisted that he was busy in preparations to file a petition in Delhi HC against the notification.
 
 
