ROHTAK: Two days after folk singer Mamta Sharma (40) was found dead in a field of a Rohtak district village with her throat slit, the police on Saturday claimed to have solved the blind murder by arresting the deceased’s close aide and another person for murdering her over disputes regarding money and harassment.

 The accused have been identified as   Kumar (27) and his accomplice as   Kumar (25) of Rohtak. Addressing a press conference, Rohtak SP Pankaj Nain said they had received information on January 18 that a woman’s body was lying in a field of Banyani village.
 
 On reaching the spot, police identified her as singer Mamta, a resident of Kalanaur in the district. She was missing from her home since January 14 and her son had lodged a missing report, following which a case had been registered.
 
 The police said preliminary probe revealed that Mamta died after repeated attacks on her throat and neck. Further investigation revealed that the victim’s close aide was the culprit, who killed her en route to   in   on January 14 for attending a religious event.
 
 Accused Mohit, a resident of Mandothi village in Jhajjar district, used to accompany Mamta during bhajan singing events and also worked as her chauffeur.
 
 Confessing to his crime, Mohit said he had brought his friend’s car that day and was enraged after Mamta reprimanded him for arriving late for the event in Gohana. Police said earlier also similar arguments due to Mamta’s quarrelsome nature had taken place, besides less payment to Mohit on some occasions.
 
 On the fateful day, the victim and the accused had a heated exchange over some matter in the car en route to Gohana. Losing cool, Mohit took his knife and attacked Mamta. He hit her multiple times on her neck to vent out his anger, said the police.
 
 Covering her body with ‘chunni’, the accused took the car towards Rohtak and asked his friend Sandeep to join him in disposing of the body.
 
 They dumped her body in the fields in Banyani. After getting the blood-drenched car cleaned, Mohit reached the victim’s house and narrated a story that she had gone with some persons to Gohana and handed over the car of Sandeep after reaching home.
 
 The police have recovered the knife used in the crime from the accused.
 
 
