THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: It is death knell for the dream project of opposition leader   to set up a medical college in his home constituency. The state government has scrapped the project by directing the Kerala Medical Infrastructure Development Company Ltd (INFRAMED) to wind up its operations.

 INFRAMED was formed by the previous UDF government to set up the medical college with public-private-partnership. The decision to wind up the operations of the company has been taken by the government with the vigilance and anti-corruption bureau registering a case in connection with irregularities in the setting up of the new medical college.
 
 An upset Ramesh Chennithala said it was just “politics” behind the decision of the government. “I had given representation to the chief minister to convene a meeting twice. But the chief minister was least interested in this project. If it had come up, it would have been a successful model in the state,” said Chennithala.
 
 It was first decided to set up the medical college in the 25 acres owned by National Thermal Power Corporation at Nangiarkulangara. However, the plan was dropped since   was not ready to hand over the land. Later, the project was shifted to   in the land owned by KSEB.
 
 The company was formed with an authorized share capital of Rs 40 crore which was later increased to Rs 80 crore by the UDF government. Now, additional chief secretary Rajeev Sadanandan has issued an order to wind up the company and the decision to increase the share capital has also been dismissed.
 
 “I am not ready to run behind the government to reconsider the decision since they are not even ready to have a meeting to discuss what has actually happened. At the same time, I am not ready to drop the project as well,” said Chennithala.
 
 The VACB had registered a case against awarding the consultancy contract to Archi Matrix- a health care architecture in Kochi. The complaint was that the then government awarded the contract violating government norms.
 
 As per the PWD norms, the amount to the consultancy agency should not go beyond 1.9% of the total estimated cost of the project. However, the contract was awarded to the company for the amount which is 2.94% of the total estimated cost. Another company had quoted for 1.34% of the total estimated cost. The government rejected the lowest bidder and allegedly awarded contract to the highest bidder  , it was alleged in the complaint.
 
