

 
 
 When Guttedar filed his nomination papers from Afzalpur,   state president B S Yeddyurappa is said to have promised him a ministerial berth. I have also heard Guttedar bragging about his influence over 40 seats in the region. If that is the case, then why only a ministerial berth? He should be the CM candidate. For a six-time MLA from the constituency, the development work he has done is nothing when compared to Chittapur, which I have represented for one term. I don’t know about Guttedar and his rhetoric, as it seems he is more petrified about me than I am of him.
 
 
 
 For the Congress, Hyderabad-Karnatak is quite relevant, since whenever we’ve done well in the region we have come to power. Even in 2013, this region delivered 22-24 seats. With the implementation of 371(J), our situation remains strong here and we are hoping that this result will be delivered in the May 12 polls too. It is our (Congress) bastion and will remain so.
 
 
 
 That is an absolutely false accusation. Kalaburagi being the headquarters of the division, it is but obvious that funds will be released in that district. But funds have been distributed among all assembly constituencies as per the comprehensive development index (CDI) under the Dr Nanjundappa report on H-K region and its backwardness. We have also taken up macro projects, including construction of Kalaburagi airport, ring roads in Kalaburagi and Bidar towns. Now these are projects which will increase development of the region and not my individual constituency of Chittapur.
 
 
 
 We consider it imperative to stop the BJP in Karnataka, as the narrative of changing the Constitution by Hegde is dangerous. It is not only dangerous for Dalits but also to the oppressed classes of society and others who are safeguarded under our Constitution.
 
 
 
 Be it political, social or economic, continuity in our reign to ensure the development of our region is important. Our primary target is the 2018 election and to deliver on that. The 2019 elections are a year away, and the assembly elections will obviously have an impact on the parliamentary polls.
 
