MANGALURU: With the state government’s   (see box) scheme floundering due to a lack of technical know-how on how to keep the programme running, the department of panchayati raj and rural development is now mulling to undertake   of its engineering staff. A final decision in this regard is expected shortly, and principal secretary of the department, has in-principle agreed to a suggestion given by M R  , CEO, Dakshina Kannada ZP, in this regard.

 The issue figured prominently at a meeting that CEOs of all zilla panchayats in the state attended in Bengaluru on Friday. Ravi, armed with inputs, suggestions and directives at this meeting, came down heavily on the panchayat department’s rural water supply and   (KRIDL) engineering staff, who are responsible for maintaining the   installed under this programme. Ravi has also issued a show-cause notice to the KRIDL executive engineer in this regard.
 
 Noting that engineers of the two wings tasked with looking after these RO plants apparently do not have the know-how to look after them, Ravi told TOI that he suggested that the department undertake capacity building of these engineers, to assimilate the latest technology that is being used in such programmes. Likewise, the department is also likely to take a call on a similar exercise for panchayat development officers who will be entrusted responsibility of these schemes.
 
 “KRIDL MD Raju agreed at the meeting to hand over these RO plants to the concerned GPs,” Ravi said. In addition, the department has also sanctioned Rs 10 lakh to the ZP to enable the body to carry out urgently-needed repairs of the RO plants in the district. “I have instructed our engineers to come up with an action plan in this regard. Funds will be released and any issue pertaining to drinking water shortage in Dakshina Kannada district is addressed post-haste, and any potential crisis averted,” he said.
 
 WHAT IS SHUDDHA NEERU?
 
 When launched in 2013, ‘Shuddha Neeru’ was touted as a panacea for the drinking water woes of people in Karnataka. One of the state government’s flagship projects, it entailed installation of reverse-osmosis (RO) machines to ensure that the people were provided potable water. However, negligence of authorities has seen most of these machines, which number more than 11,000, installed in the last four-and-a-half-years, going defunct.
 
 
