LUDHIANA: The city has finally got a representation with the induction of two-time MLA Bharat Bhushan Ashu in Capt Amarinder Singh’s cabinet. Ashu, a close confidant of local MP Ravneet Bittu, has been chosen over five-time MLA and former minister Rakesh Pandey. He is believed to have got the reward for his significant contribution to the recently-held municipal corporation elections. He, along with eight other legislators, will take the oath on April 21.

 Insiders said apart from lobbying by Bittu and support of All India   Committee secretary  , his performance in the civic polls — in which more than 15 candidates owing allegiance to him emerged victorious — went in his favour. Prior to this, both Ashu and Bittu worked in tandem during 2017 assembly elections. Bittu advocated Ashu’s name in a meeting with Congress president Rahul Gandhi. Besides, Ashu is also in good books of Amarinder.
 
 Pandey, whose name was doing the rounds, could not find anyone to strongly pitch for him. He is a close associate of former chief minister Rajinder Kaur Bhattal.
 
 Speaking to the TOI, Ashu, former deputy leader of the Congress Legislative Party, said his top priority would be development of Ludhiana. “I am grateful to the Congress high command, state leadership and all my supporters, well-wishers and family members who have showed their trust and faith in me. Regardless of the ministry I get, I will resolve issues concerning Ludhiana and get more funds for new projects,” he added.
 
 Sources said simmering differences among the party leaders and supporters would come to the fore with Ashu’s induction. This would pose a greater challenge for the MLA from Ludhiana (west), as senior leaders may come out in open against him, they added.
 
 Congress has eight MLAs from the 14 assembly constituencies of Ludhiana district. They are Surinder Dawar, Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Rakesh Pandey, Sanjay Talwar, Kuldeep Singh Vaid, Amrik Singh Dhillon, Gurkirat Singh Kotli and Lakhvir Singh Lakha.
 
 Pandey said in a measured tone, “Changes take place and one should be ready to adapt to these. The decision seems to have been taken by Rahul ji, as he has been advocating representation to youngsters.”
 
 
