GHAZIABAD: It’s official.   will not pay its share of Rs 246 crore for the Dilshad Garden-New Bus Stand   project.

 The decision was taken at the GMC’s executive committee meet on Saturday. The committee, on the contrary, has asked   to pay   (DMRC) the civic body’s share of contribution to the metro project in lieu of the land that the development agency had acquired from GMC for various projects in the past.
 
 “The issue of metro funding came up for discussion at the executive committee meet and it has been unanimously decided that GDA should pay GMC’s share to the DMRC,” said mayor Asha Sharma. “We are not being unreasonable in demanding so because GDA owes about Rs 350 crore in lieu of land which was acquired by the development agency, and we are only saying that they should pay up our share from that account as we are already running short on funds to carry out development work,” she added.
 
 Under the existing funding pattern, GDA, GMC, UP Housing Board and UPSIDC are required to contribute to the 9.41km-long project. GDA has paid Rs 640 crore out of its share of Rs 695 crore, while UP Housing Board has paid just Rs 50 crore against Rs 440 crore. UPSIDC has paid just Rs 3.3 crore out of Rs 97 crore, while GMC had not yet paid anything from its share of Rs 246 crore, citing paucity of funds.
 
 A GMC official, meanwhile, has suggested a possible way out of this problem. “The executive committee’s decision will be conveyed to the state government which can either pay up GMC’s share or prevail upon GDA to contribute for GMC’s share as well,” he said.
 
 Apart from metro funding, the executive committee discussed about the depleting water table in the municipal areas of the city. “In view of reports of shrinking groundwater table in the municipal areas, it has been decided that GMC’s water works department will soon crack the whip on water mafia in the city who have been illegally harnessing groundwater for commercial purposes,” said CP Singh, municipal commissioner.
 
 As per a report of Uttar Pradesh groundwater department, in the city area, which comprises of five municipal zones, the average depletion of water table have been recorded at 3.24 metre. Vijaynagar which comes under city area has seen maximum depletion of water table. In 2013, water table in this area was recorded at 21.03 metre, but in 2017 the table fell by 16.51 metre.
 
