NEW DELHI: The three-floor, state-of-the-art underground   in Rajouri Garden’s J Block has been ready for use for three months now. Even the CCTV cameras and sensors are installed. Only the computers need to be unpacked and set up at the ticketing booths. But the entry gates are locked even as dozens of vehicles jostle for parking space on the narrow lanes outside the facility. It all appears such a tragic waste of public money.

 
  
  
 
 The underground parking with a capacity of 250 vehicles was commissioned for J Block in the run-up to the Commonwealth Games of 2010. Its work order was finally cleared in January 2012, with the likelihood of its opening in 2014. Three years after that deadline, in February 2017, as a dusty inauguration plaque shows, it was indeed opened for public by the then mayor Shyam Sharma. And yet the gates were never really unlocked.
 
 A corporation official confessed that the multilevel parking was not ready at the time of the inauguration and the formality of the opening was conducted under ‘political pressure’. One of the project officials said, “Civil and finishing works were completed 3-4 months ago, and the complex can be opened at even a day’s notice.”
 
 That is all the more why a palpable sense of anger is visible among the local residents. The parking is ready but stays unused. Housewife Ritu Bhatia rued the dishonesty of the earlier inauguration by the area’s member of Parliament. “Every house here has more than one car, and this underground parking could have helped to decongest the area. I have no idea why they are not opening it for public use despite demands from the local residents,” said Bhatia.
 
 Meanwhile, the four-year delay has led to a project cost escalation of about Rs 20 crore, which is almost double the original estimate of Rs 20 crore. In between, an assessment had put the revised cost of the parking facility construction at Rs 30 crore.
 
 Dr Satish Gupta, who lives nearby, said that postponing the opening of the parking was criminal negligence on the part of   after a recreational park had been sacrificed to build the underground facility. “Because they haven’t inaugurated the parking lot, even the green area atop it remains out of bounds for residents,” Gupta complained. “In the time they have taken to   the parking, so many more cars have been added to the area’s vehicular population, rendering the capacity of this parking   inadequate.”
 
 Harvinder Singh concurred. “They inaugurated it and then ran away,” he scowled. “It is deceit and it is shameful that the municipal corporation wasted tax payers’ money in this fashion. Construction is finished and they should immediately let us use it.”
 
 SDMC mayor Narender Chawla said he was aware that the work at the facility was over and it would be “inaugurated in next seven to 10 days”.
 
 
