Aspirants to collegiate education in the city and surrounding areas are facing difficulties as violations by   and science colleges in the city of admission norms are proliferating. The state government issued the guidelines for admissions on Wednesday, but many of the colleges in the city found to have been ignoring the norms.

 While there are two more weeks for the publication of Plus 2 results, admission process have started almost a couple of weeks ago in many colleges in the city. This is a clear violation of the admission guidelines, students say. The guidelines say that applications should be issued only five days prior to the publication of the results. This is just a tip of the ice berg. Violations start right from the price of application forms to the admissions process and the implementation of the reservation rules.
 
 S Mahesh from Palakkarai went to a government aided minority   to get an application for BSc maths. He was charged Rs 200 for the application form when the guidelines clearly say that Rs 50 should be collected for applications. While he was unaware of such a rule, he said that he will take up the matter to the college administration on Thursday. It is also mandatory for every college to mention the fee structure in their prospectus. However, most of the college websites TOI accessed to have not mentioned the fee structure on their sites.
 
 This is not the first time that such violations are taking place, but this has become the order of the day. Higher education secretary Sunil Paliwal said, "Regional joint director of collegiate education can be informed of any violations by colleges. One can also contact the director of collegiate education who is the head of the department." 
 
 "We have clearly mentioned the fee structure for every course offered by the university in the prospectus, said vice-chancellor of   adding that colleges will be insisted on publishing the fee structure for every course in the prospectus.
 
 The colleges flouting the norms of admissions have become a common affair because there is not a proper mechanism to check such violations. Experts point out that a single window system can curtail such violations. 
 
 Saying that the single window system (SWS) for admission to the arts and science colleges is the only solution, former president of the Association of University Teachers (AUT) K Pandiyan said that there would be only one application under the SWS as admissions would be made by a central mechanism.
 
 
