PUDUCHERRY: In a defiance of the   order upholding the nomination of three BJP MLAs, the Puducherry assembly speaker   on Sunday said there will be no change in his earlier decision not to recognise their nomination.

 The Madras high court had, on March 22, upheld their nomination after prolonged confrontation between lieutenant governor   and the Congress government headed by  , a tussle that had precipitated a minor constitutional crisis.
 
 In a terse two-page letter, dated March 25, and addressed to the three MLAs, Puducherry legislative assembly secretary A Vincent Rayar conveyed to them the decision of the speaker.
 
 Rayar’s letter “reproduced” Vaithilingam’s decision that he was “carefully scrutinising” the high court order with legal experts and would give his decision soon. “Until then, there will be no change in my earlier decision (dated November 12, 2017) in this matter,” said Vaithilingam.
 
 He was neither heard nor made a party in the writ petition, Vaithilingam said. “The principles of natural justice have not been followed. The order of the hon’ble high court has been passed without hearing me. As such, there is infirmity and lack of constitutional clarity in the order of hon’ble high court,” he said.
 
 Vaithilingam in an order dated November 12 last year said the legislative assembly will not recognise the nomination of the three MLAs —   unit president V Saminathan, party treasurer K G Shankar and sympathiser S Selvaganapathy — as members. He said their nomination was made by “an incompetent authority and without jurisdiction and hence void”.
 
 Three days after the high court order, the three nominated MLAs submitted a letter to the Puducherry assembly secretary and speaker on March 25, arguing that the high court had upheld their nomination and they will take their seats in the House.
 
  Sunday’s development has come when the territorial budget session is set to commence from March 26. It will begin with the customary address by lt governor at 9.30am on Monday.
 
 
