Chennai: Prime Minister Narendra   on Monday invited himself over for a treat of dosas and idlis at the house of a Tamil Nadu woman who is one of the beneficiaries of the ‘Ujjwala Yojna’, a flagship welfare scheme of his government aimed at increasing LPG cylinder coverage among poor families.

 “Will I get   if I come to Tamil Nadu?” asked Modi to Rudraamma, one of the 14.89 lakh women LPG beneficiaries from Tamil Nadu under the scheme. Three women beneficiaries from Melumalai in Krishnagiri district were chosen randomly to speak to the Prime Minister through video conference.
 
 “Around 9.30pm, we were called through video conference and the three women — Rudraamma, Easwari and Chandra — were ready at the NIC office. Soon after seeing the Prime Minister, the three women stood up and immediately Modi asked them to sit,” said a senior Indian Oil Company (IOC) official.
 
 “How having a gas cylinder been useful?” Modi asked Rudraamma in Hindi. With an IOC official acting as a translator, Rudraamma relied, “Earlier, I used to cook using a wooden stove, but now it’s much easier after getting an LPG cylinder.”
 
 Modi then asked the three women whether they made dosas and idlis at home before getting an LPG cylinder. Rudraamma said, “It used to be difficult before to make   and dosas using a wooden stove. With the LPG cylinder, it is a lot easier to make a variety of snacks and food items,” said Rudraamma.
 
 Modi then asked them whether he would get dosas if he visits their houses. “Will you make me some dosas when I come over?” asked Modi. The women were surprised with the question and immediately Rudraamma said, “Of course sir, I will. Please visit definitely”. The conversation ended with a “vanakkam” by Modi. “The conversation lasted for less than five minutes. We chose only those consumers who after getting their LPG connection used the first cylinder and asked for a refill,” said an IOC official.
 
 Under the LPG scheme, out of 14.89 lakh connections in Tamil Nadu, IOC’s share is 54% followed by HPCL (25%) and BPCL (21%).
 
 
