CHENNAI: As the bus strike continued,   government on Wednesday introduced a bill in the assembly to increase salaries and other allowances of chief minister, ministers, MLAs by more than 100%. An announcement to this effect was made in July last year but the government introduced a bill to withdraw Rs 25.32 crore annually from the consolidated fund of the state towards salaries and allowances for the legislators. 

 There was high drama in the assembly when the bill was introduced by deputy chief minister and finance minister O Panneerselvam. Though the schedule for the day had named chief minister for introducing the bill which is in the name of Palaniswami but it was   who introduced the bill.   MLAs were walking out of the assembly after speaker   refused to allow leader of opposition to raise the gutka issue in the assembly when the bill was introduced. 
 
  wanted to raise the issue of transfer of V   as vigilance commission and appointing land commissioner  . But the speaker said as the gutka case in Madras high court, it could not be raised in the assembly. 
  
  
 DMK chief whip R Sakkarapani wanted to oppose the salary bill by mentioning the transport employees strike but he was not allowed to raise the issue. He then said the party was opposing the bill. Speaker immediately ticked off the DMK chief whip asking him whether he does not want the salary hike but Sakkarapani was in no mood to answer and walked out. 
 
 Speaking to reporters outside the assembly, leader of opposition M K Stalin called the salary bill a joke on transport employees. “When transport employees are on strike for the past 7 days seeking a hike in their salaries, we will become a laughing stock among the public. There is no need for a hike in salaries of MLAs when the government has been stating that there is a financial crunch in the state whenever ministers are speaking on transport employees strike,” said Stalin. 
 
 As per the bill, the salary and other allowances will increase from Rs 55,000 per month to Rs 1.05 lakh. Salary alone will increase from Rs 8,000 per month to Rs 30,000. 
 
 
