BHOPAL: Will the mystery ever be solved? With key suspects   and Ram Chandra Kalsangra still missing and Sunil Joshi and Ramprasad Kaloda dead, the   blasts may forever be a riddle.

 Investigators believe these four people from Malwa region of   formed a crucial link in multiple terror cases, including the Mecca Masjid blasts. Since suspects and witnesses vanished or were killed, investigators had a tough job from the very beginning.
 
 Sandeep and Kalsangra have been declared absconders. They and RSS pracharak Sunil Joshi, who was murdered, were among 10 accused in the Mecca Masjid case. NIA suspected that Joshi was a key organiser of the gang responsible for the Samjhauta Express, Malegaon, Mecca Masjid and Ajmer Sharif blasts in 2006-07. Rajasthan ATS’s chargesheet in 2011 says Joshi got explosives from Ramprasad Kaloda, who, like Joshi was allegedly an aide of  .
 
 Joshi was shot dead on December 29, 2007, near his house in Dewas. There were contradictory findings in the case, which was never solved. Nor was Kaloda’s. Shriram Pawar, a witness in the Kaloda murder case, went missing. Kaloda’s body was found near railway tracks in Baloda Takoon village in Indore on June 24, 2008. Local police closed the file, naming three persons as his murderers and citing financial dispute as the motive. Soon after the chargesheet, prime witness Pawar disappeared and the three suspects were released on bail. Pawar’s family had filed a missing person’s report at Depalpur police station on November 14, 2008, but no trace was ever found.
 
 Rajasthan ATS suspected that Joshi and Kaloda were killed by people in their own circle, but the investigation hit a stone wall. 
 
 Before that, state police had named Pragya Singh Thakur, Harshad Solanki, Vasudev Parmar, Anand Raj Kataria and Ramcharan Patel as accused, stating that Joshi was murdered over “personal enmity”. NIA probed if Joshi’s murder was a part of a larger conspiracy by fringe Right wing groups. This followed Swami Aseemanand’s alleged ‘confession’ that Joshi had masterminded the Samjhauta Express, Mecca Masjid and Ajmer Sharif blasts.
 
 NIA officials arrested four suspects in Joshi’s murder — Lokesh Sharma, Rajendra Pehalwan, Jitender Sharma and Dilip Jagtap, all residents of Malwa. A breakthrough came only after the arrest of Lokesh, a BJP youth wing leader, from Mhow. Sharma allegedly told interrogators that Joshi was threatening to spill the beans on their activities and had even planned to surrender. This forced them to eliminate him, said an officer.
 
 On February 1, 2017, a Dewas court acquitted eight people, including Sadhvi Pragya Singh Bharti, in the Joshi murder case, saying that the prosecution was unable to prove their guilt. The next day, state Congress pointed an accusing finger at the   government and asked, “Who killed Sunil Joshi?”
 
 Now, an NIA special court in Hyderabad has acquitted all the accused, including Swami Aseemanand, in the Mecca Masjid blasts case. Sandeep Dange and Ramji Kalsangra are still on NIA’s ‘most wanted’ list, and carry a bounty of Rs 10 lakh each.
 
 
