CHENNAI: Several south Chennai areas again went without power, this time due to a fault in the transmission line from Manali. The line bringing power from north Chennai to   broke down around 11am on Monday, affecting supply to various neighbourhoods. Within 15 minutes, however, power was restored after the staff swung into action and re-routed power through  . This is the first time this summer that the feeder line from Manali has been hit.

 Two days ago, power had been affected in south Chennai after a private company punctured underground cables at Royapettah. When contacted, sources in Tangedco said proper maintenance was being carrried out at all sub-stations to prevent any breakdown.
 
 “On Monday, the   feeder line tripped around 11am but alternate supply was arranged from the Basin Bridge feeder line within 15 minutes,” Tangedco chairman   told TOI. 
 
 Residents in many neighbourhoods in places like Mylapore, Mandaveli, Kotturpuram, Adyar, RA Puram and Velachery were hit. “Power was cut and it was restored after 30 minutes. Even after this supply was not continuous for a few minutes before it was restored permanently without any voltage problem,” said L Ramesh, a resident of Velachery. This year, he said, people in some areas of Velachery had been enduring power outages almost every night. At times, in houses with three-phase connections, power was available in only one phase, making it difficult to use airconditioners, he added. 
 
 Senior Tangedco officials have expressed confidence that power supply would not be hit in Chennai city due to problems in transmission or distribution lines. “We have taken steps to provide quality power to residents in all areas. We have ordered staff to check all transformers and feeder lines and change them if necessary so that even if the load is high, the line does not trip,” said a Tangedco distribution official.
 
 Asked about the Saturday early morning power cuts in various areas, the official blamed the private company tasked with laying optical fibres. “The cable did not trip due to heavy load. It was damaged by the private company. The breakdown in the Manali line after it tripped is the first for this summer season,” the official said.
 
 Generally, underground cables as well as overhead lines trip during the summer owing to the heavy load due to increased of airconditioners and ar coolers, high ambient temperature outside and poor maintenance of transmission lines.
 
 “Jumpers in transmission lines snap in high temperatures within the line as well as outside. To solve this recurring problem, Tangedco needs to introduce online patrolling using drones. This will help detect loose lines so they can be repaired,” said a power expert.
 
 
