JAIPUR: Five days after fierce storm affected the eastern parts of the state, many places are still waiting for water supply and electricity to be restored. Except the city parts in Alwar, Bharatpur and  , majority of the interior villages are still suffering as water supply and electricity remain affected. Many villages were getting generators installed for water so that their basic needs to drink and bathe can be fulfilled.

 According to sources, 40 per cent of Alwar district is yet to get electricity restored. At many places the repair and restoration work of the transformers and feeders is on. “We are hopeful to restore electricity completely by Monday at most of the places. More than 7,500 electric poles were uprooted in the storm affected districts including Dholpur, Alwar and Bharatpur since May 2,” said a senior officer of the Jaipur Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Limited on Sunday.
 
 At many places in Bharatpur and Dholpur people are getting generator sets to start the water motors to fulfil their need of potable water. “Shopkeepers are selling water between Rs 100 and Rs 120 per litre,” said Kamlesh Chaudhary, a native of Mathura Gate in Bharatpur.
 
 The water tankers roaming around in Alwar and Bharatpur which used to take Rs 250 per tanker are seen charging nearly Rs 750 to Rs 1,000 per tanker and people are compelled to buy them for their basic water needs. On the other hand the officials and technicians even on Sunday continued restoration and repair work of the electric poles, feeders and transformers.
 
 Thirty-six persons were killed and over 100 injured in the calamity on Wednesday night. Minister of state for energy, Pushpendra Singh, on Thursday had said while about 1,800 electricity transformers were damaged along with the connected feeders, nine 220 KV towers on Bharatpur-Nadbai line, one 220 KV tower on Bhiwadi-Neemrana line and one 132 KV tower on Behror-Keshwana line were damaged.
 
 Box: Jaipur: Amid repair work of damage done by dust storm three days ago, Sanyukt   (SVAKSS) Bharatpur expressed its resentment on district collector serving show cause notice to executive superintending engineer on Sunday. SVAKSS demanded that collector immediately withdraw the notice as it discourages the workers and employees of power department working hard to restore power in the district. Federation of Rajasthan Engineers (FRE) have also come in support of SVAKSS. The FRE district convenor (Jaipur) Satish Sharma said it is a time to build a team spirit in such difficult situation as dust storm has caused a great loss of life and property in the state.
 
 
