GUNTUR:   are in trouble with the officials of the agricultural market yard in Guntur allegedly collecting money from them in the name of rules and regulations. 

 The poor farmers who could not sell their stocks are also not spared of being extorted by the corrupt officials in the market yard. Sources said that the officials are taking bribes ranging from Rs 5 lakh to Rs 10 lakh daily to complete the bidding process. 
 
 They are resorting to illegal practices in the name of the new rules and also alleged to penalize the poor farmers without any reason.
 
 According to the rules, the farmers are supposed to pay one per cent cess only when they have already sold the stock in the market yard. But the officials of the yard are allegedly levying the market cess on those farmers who want to take away the stock from them before selling it.
 
 At least 10 to 15 per cent of the farmers prefer keeping their stocks in the cold storage when they fail to get the price expected. In such case, the farmers should be allowed to take their stock away without any restrictions.
 
 “It is illegal to collect the cess from the stock value even before farmer sells it,” said CPM leader Pasam Ramarao. 
 
 He added that it amounts to multiple taxation as the farmers have to pay the tax once again when they sell it.
 
 The market yard officials have allegedly asked the managements of the cold storages not to release stocks to those farmers who are yet to pay the cess. “I brought about 300 bags of chilli to the yard expecting a price of Rs 9,000 per quintal. I have decided to keep the stock in the cold storage as the local traders offered me just around Rs 7,500. However, the yard officials collected cess from me even after being told that I have not disposed the stock,” a farmer,   of   said.
 
 Besides, the small farmers who bring the stocks to the yard together in a lorry alleged that they are being harassed to pay huge amount of money as bribe in order to take their stocks away.
 
 “The officials are taking money even to perform the regular work,” another farmer rued. The market yard chairman,   said, “We will not tolerate anyone troubling the farmers. I will look into the matter definitely ” 
 
 
