By: Simrat Ghuman
 
 It is fitting that the University of Wolverhampton has taken the lead, given that Sikhs comprise nearly 10% of the city’s quarter million population — the second highest concentration of Sikhs in the UK — along with the fact that Punjabi is the second most spoken language in the city. Brought into existence by the singular efforts of Dr Takhar, a Sikh studies expert at the university, on the back of a conversation she had a year ago with the university’s vice-chancellor, she says the centre has been awaited by the community for nearly 10-15 years. More like 50 years, says Dr  , another Sikh academician who says plans to provide education with a Sikhism context from “playgroup to PhD” were laid as early as the late 60s, but before anything concrete could be created, events back home in Punjab, running up to 1984 distracted people and derailed the project. Now there are Sikh schools providing primary and secondary education and finally the centre will fulfil the “PhD” part of the original dream.
 
 Dr Takhar’s ambition for the evolution of the centre includes an open access peer-reviewed scholarly journal, an annual Sikh Studies research conference, a public lecture series and research-informed exhibitions. She hopes to create links with academic institutions across the globe, including India, and names Punjabi University in Patiala, Guru Nanak Dev University in Amritsar, Panjab University in Chandigarh and   affiliated to   as being on board for exchange programmes and joint research projects.
 
 The centre is a cross-faculty initiative and is linked to almost every department or school in the Wolverhampton University. The centre will work with the business school around Sikh role models in entrepreneurship, leadership and politics department to look at historical and current involvement of Sikhs in politics, the sociology department to look at Sikh women empowerment and the law school to examine if the law is congnisant of the Sikh way of life, in order to safeguard it.
 
 The funds for the centre are solicited through donations, and the likes of the Sikh Channel have pledged monetary support, along with other Sikh philanthropists who Thakhar won’t name. The Indian consulate in Birmingham has extended full support to the centre and acting consulgeneral of India S M   addressed the audience at the launch of the centre in the absence of the consulgeneral Aman Puri.
 
 
