BHOPAL: For the people of  , it seems, even a drop of water is worth risking life for. As many villages in this   face acute  , long walks for villagers, who carry heavy pitchers on their heads just to fetch a vessel full of water are a commonplace.

 Take for instance the case of Hardua, a dusty hamlet in Damoh. The only permanent source of   in the village for more than 200 years has been an old well. About half of the villagers here have been following the same mundane routine for years now.
 
 The villagers proceed to the well, vessels in hand. Then they form a human chain using the slabs of stones,which lead right up to the bottom of the well, as a pseudo-ladder of sorts to stand on.
 
  
 “The villager who stands at the bottom of this chain fills the bucket and passes it to the man standing on the stone slab above him. Exchanging hands, the bucket is ultimately pulled out of the well,” says Vijay Yadav, husband of the village sarpanch.
 
 Hardua with a population of more than 1,500 marginalised people is dominated by Yadav community and most of the villagers here are farm labourers. Sarpanch of the village Sudha Yadav says, “For long we have been requesting the officials to get the well repaired. We also want them to install a submersible pump in the well so that the water can be pumped out without risk to life.”
 
 Two days back, a tube well dug by the Janpad officials did not yield water. “It was dug 400 feet but there was no water,” says Sudha.
 
 All the 10 hand pumps in the village have run dry, said Vijay. However, this well has never betrayed the village for years, he added.
 
 Many other villages in Tendukheda block of Damoh are also facing similar crisis as they have to walk around 1 to 3 kms to fetch water.
 
 “It’s not that officials can not make water available . They can, but they always overlook the plight of the poor saying one kilometre walk to fetch water is a nomal thing,” says a sarpanch of one of the villages facing severe water shortage.
 
 Chief executive officer of janpad in Damoh, Manish Bagri, says: “There is no   in the region. The dug well in Hardua is believed to be more than 500 years old and we have decided to repair it. It is the only source of clean water. We have sanctioned digging of two ponds in the village.”
 
 
