KANYAKUMARI: The second phase of the 61-day fishing ban for deep sea fishing boats in the western coast of Kanyakumari district began on Friday and will continue till July 31. Kanyakumari is the only district where the second phase of the ban would be in effect as 12 other coastal districts are in the eastern coast.

 However, 4,900 country boats, mechanised country and fibre boats of this region will not be covered in the ban.
 
 Fisheries department officials said that the first phase of the 61-day ban that commenced on April 15 would continue till June 14. “Only four coastal hamlets in the district from Arockiapuram to Kanyakumari are covered in the first phase, whereas 39 villages from   to   (bordering Thiruvananthapuram district in Kerala) will be covered in the second phase,” an official said.
 
 The second phase would affect more fishermen from the district as most deep sea fishermen and boats belong to this stretch. The areas covered include the busy Muttom and Thengapattanam fishing harbours. The official said that around 27,000 fishermen would be affected during the ban. Applications forms to disburse the compensation of Rs 5,000 to each of the 27,000 families will begin on June 10. 
 
 Meanwhile, fishermen want the ban in the west coast to be reduced to 45 days, similar to Kerala. Fishermen from   region who will be covered under the ban said that the increase in ban period by 15 days will affect them more as they did not go to sea for more than two months post cyclone Ockhi.
 
 Fisheries department officials said that the ban is for 61 days Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Maharashtra and  , while it is 45 days in Kerala. “Most of deep sea fishermen of this district operate from Kerala. So they want to the ban period to be reduced here. But next year the ban in Kerala will also be for 61 days,” added an official.
 
 Flex banners announcing the ban were erected in the fishing harbours and meetings were conducted for fishermen associations announcing the ban from June 1. “We had a meeting on May 31 too. We are taking stock of the boats that have returned to the shore. Action will be taken against those arriving on and after June 1 under the Tamil Nadu Marine Fisheries Regulation Act, 1983,” said an official.
 
 
