MUMBAI: If all goes according to plan, Mumbaikars will get a green mode of transport in the next two years. The BMC on Friday set aside Rs 100 crore in its budget to kickstart a Rs 300-crore project to create a 39km cycling and jogging track along the  . 

 Since last year, BMC has been carrying out massive demolition drives to remove over 16,000 encroachments for the security of Tansa pipeline. To ensure that the   do not return, the BMC drew up a project, titled Green Wheels Along Blue Lines, to develop a 10m wide cycling and jogging track on the cleared area.
 
 “It will open a new transport corridor in the suburbs and alter the traffic scenario,” said additional municipal commissioner Sanjay Mukherjee. “We plan to use the Tansa pipeline as a canvas where artists can showcase their talent and beautify the  .” 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 The proposed cycling track will have 40 exits, connected to 10 Central Railway stations, five Western Railway stations, four Harbour line stations, seven Metro stations, two monorail stations and a few arterial roads. The track will start from Mulund, and through Jogeshwari-Vikhroli Link Road it will go upto Bandra station and from there it will go to King’s Circle and then Dadar. The BMC plans to put up a foldable track adjoining the pipeline near the Mahim creek area after the Bandra station instead of constructing a new track in the mangroves. Civic officials said they will place cycling stands at all exits.
 
 But transport expert Sunil Mone warned, “Rs 100 crore is a huge sum; public money should be spent cautiously.” He said the MMRDA had spent Rs 8 crore to create a cycling track at BKC which failed to take off. “The track is now used for parking. If the BMC plans to construct a cycling track for citizens to commute to their work place or along the north-south corridor, it should ensure there are no encroachments and the money does not go down the drain.
 
 Welcoming the move, A V Shenoy from Mumbai Vikas Samiti said the proposal will improve health of citizens and reduce air/noise pollution on road. “But the authorities should ensure that the cycling lanes are properly demarcated and motorcycles do not use it.” 
 
 
