JODHPUR: A special court on Wednesday sentenced disgraced “godman” 
  for raping a teenage girl studying at his ashram, with the judge saying, “In my humble opinion, Asaram not only broke the faith of the complainant but also spoiled the image of saints among common men.”

 
 The 16-year-old teenager had said in her complaint that Asaram had called her to his ashram in Manai area near Jodhpur and raped her on the night of August 15, 2013.
 
 The police chargesheet against Asaram and four others was filed on November 6, 2013 under various Sections of the POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act, the Juvenile Justice Act and the Indian Penal Code.
 
 On Wednesday, special judge Madhusudan Sharma read out the 453-page judgment in   where 77-year-old Asaram has been lodged ever since his arrest. Asaram was arrested in Indore and brought to Jodhpur on September 1, 2013.
 
 Apart from Asaram, two other accused — Shilpi, hostel warden of Asaram’s gurukul in Chhindwara (MP) where the survivor and her brother studied, and Sharad, manager of the gurukul — were also convicted by the court and sentenced to 20 years in jail. 
 
 The court, however, acquitted two others — Shiva, a staffer at the ashram, and Prakash, Asaram’s cook. Judge Sharma noted that Asaram is considered a saint and has lakhs of followers not only in the country but also overseas and runs about 400 ashrams. 
 
 He added that the rape survivor's father was a disciple of Asaram and contributed towards the construction of his ashram at   in UP. His devotion towards Asaram was such that he got his son and daughter admitted to the Chhindwara gurukul for studies.
 
  
  
 
 Having made the observations, the judge remarked, “Asaram separated the girl from her parents under the guise of performing prayers and sexually exploited her after calling her to his room.”
 
 The judge, along with his staff, defence and prosecution counsels and the accused reached Jodhpur Central Jail at 9am. Fearing violence by Asaram’s followers, a special courtroom was set up inside the jail at the directions of the Rajasthan high court. The judgment came around 11am.
 
 
 
 Defence counsel   prayed for a mild sentence for Asaram citing his old age and social works done by him for the poor and tribals. 
 
 However, public prosecutor Pokar Ram Bishnoi, seeking harsher punishment, argued that no leniency should be shown considering the nature of the crime and the person who committed it.
 
 “Asaram has breached the faith of people about saints. He has hardly done any social work but has exploited a minor girl who was studying at his gurukul,” Bishnoi argued. Around 3pm, Judge Sharma ordered that Asaram be kept under imprisonment till his death.
 
 The court convicted Asaram under IPC Section 376 (2)(f) (rape of minor girl), Section 376D (rape by persons constituting a group or acting in furtherance of a common intention), Section-370(4) (trafficking of persons), Section 342 (wrongful confinement); IPC Section 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation), and slapped a fine of over Rs 3 lakh and sentenced him to life imprisonment till death.
 
  
  
 
 Asaram was also convicted under Section 23 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act (punishment for cruelty to juvenile), for which he was given a six-month sentence. Bishnoi said the court imposed a fine of Rs 3 lakh on Asaram and Rs 50,000 each on Shilpa and Sharat. “Money collected from them will go to the rape survivor,” said Bishnoi.
 
 The special court, too, recommended an appropriate compensation from the District Legal Service Authority for the survivor.
 
 Soon after the verdict, the survivor’s father expressed satisfaction, saying, “My daughter is happy today.” “We had complete faith in the judiciary. We are happy that we got justice,” the father told reporters in Shahjanhanpur. He said the family had been living in constant fear for the past five years.
 
 Security across several states, such as Rajasthan, Gujarat and Haryana, was tightened to prevent violence by Asaram followers.
 
 In August last year, several people were killed in Panchkula following conviction of another godman, Dera Sacha Sauda chief   in a rape case. Asaram is also facing a rape case in Surat. He is accused of raping a former follower who lived at his ashram in Motera, Ahmedabad, between 1996 and 2007. 
 
 The complaint was filed in 2013 by two sisters. While one accused Asaram of raping her at the Motera ashram, the other accused his son, Narayan Sai, of rape. Six women, including Asaram's wife, daughter, and four ashram office-bearers, have been booked for conspiracy and illegal confinement.
 
