COIMBATORE: Sleuths of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) interrogated two accused in the murder of Hindu Munnani spokesperson   at the   temporary office at Race Course on Thursday and Friday.

 The agency had sent summons to S   of Saibaba Colony and Syed Abudhakir of KK Pudur in Saibaba Colony to appear before it. The duo had obtained conditional bails a few months ago. Though NIA filed a petition before the special court for NIA cases in Poonamalle seeking their custody, the court dismissed the petition on Friday.
 
 Meanwhile, the Madras high court on Friday adjourned the hearing on a petition submitted by the defence counsel seeking to quash the notification issued by the ministry of home affairs to take over the murder case from the crime branch-CID (special investigation division) to April 6.
 
 Defence counsel A Nowfal said SID had initially arrested Abudhakir and Saddam Hussain under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code. “They obtained bail after three months. Meanwhile, SID invoked Sections 16 and 18 of the Unlawful Activities (prevention) Act against them.   and S   of GM Nagar were also arrested and booked under UAPA. The duo has been spending their days behind the bars and their bail petitions will come up for hearing on March 22. The Coimbatore rural police have registered an FIR against four unidentified persons in connection with the case. The ministry of home affairs had issued a notification on January 22 to NIA to take over the case from CB-CID and the NIA registered a third FIR against the arrested on January 29. Three FIRs have been registered in a murder case. Meanwhile, SID filed a petition before the principal district judge court on November 20 and filed an alteration report to handover the case to NIA. How does the CB-CID know the case was to be transferred to NIA in 2017? We suspect there was political pressure to transfer the case to NIA. So, we have filed a petition to quash the notification issued by the ministry,” said Nowfal.
 
 
