PUNE: A 40-year-old man was recently taken into custody for stealing jewellery worth Rs2.55 lakh from his landlord’s home. 

 The burglary took place on February 27 and the suspect was arrested the following day. In the intervening time, the suspect,  , managed to go to  , where he lodged the stolen ornaments with a local jeweller. 
 
 Acting on a complaint by the landlord,   of Sangvi, a team of police led by senior inspector Ajay Chandkhede, tracked down the suspect to Latur, where they recovered ornaments worth Rs1.87 lakh. The police also arrested the jeweller, 26-year-old Aakash Giri. 
 
 According to the complaint, Gambhire, a driver by profession, has rented a room from Bansude in Manjari. On February 27, he went to to complainant’s workplace in  , requesting the latter to lend him his motorcycle. He said he had some work at the regional transport office. “Without thinking twice Bansude gave Gambhire the keys to his motorcycle. The bunch of keys included the key to his house,” assistant inspector Balbhim Nanaware said.
 
 Nanaware added that the suspect noticed this, and went to a keymaker to get duplicates made of the house key. “He then went back to Bansude’s office and returned the motorcycle,” Nanaware said.
 
 Gambhire went to his landlord’s home in Sangvi, gained easy entry and made off with gold ornaments worth Rs2.55 lakh from Bansude’s house,” Nanaware said.
 
 The burglary was discovered when Bansude returned from work. When he complained, the police asked Bansude whether he had given the keys to his house to anyone. “The next day, Bansude told us that he had given his motorcycle keys to his tenant, and that the same bunch had his house keys too,” Nanaware said.
 
 Police contacted Gambhire, only be told he was in Manjari. “But when we checked his location, we saw that he was in Latur. Later, we saw that he was headed for Pune,” Nanaware said.
 
 The police went to Manjari at night and took Gambhire into custody. “During questioning, Gambhire admitted to his involvement in the theft and also revealed that he had left the ornaments with a jeweller in Latur,” Nanaware said.
 
 Nanaware and his team then went to Latur and recovered gold ornaments worth Rs1.87 lakh. “We have yet to trace one more accomplice,” Nanaware said.
 
 
