CHANDIGARH: The issue of lower liberalised family pensions for families of soldiers killed along the Line of Actual Control ( ) on the China border has reached the Chandigarh bench of the   (AFT) after the widow of a soldier who died in 2016, knocked on its doors. The tribunal has issued notice to the ministry of defence ( ), seeking its response on the issue.

 The existing rules state that widows of soldiers who die on any international border ( ) or Line of Control (LOC) with Pakistan or in any other operational area, are entitled to a higher “liberalised family pension”. It is about 1.5 times more than normal pension. This benefit is, however, not extended to families of soldiers who die along the LAC with China.
 
 A division bench of the tribunal, comprising judicial member, Justice M S Chauhan and administrative member,  , issued the notice after hearing a plea by Rajbir Kaur.
 
 
 
 
 Rajbir Kaur, widow of naib subedar Gurmail Singh of the Sikh Regiment, is demanding the liberalized family pension.
 
 Gurmail had died in March 2016 after he suffered pain in the chest in the inclement weather and treacherous terrain. He had been moving with a patrolling party during a face-off with Chinese troops at the time. Kaur’s claim of liberalized family pension was turned down by MOD on the ground that the LAC is not covered under the rules.
 
 Kaur submitted before the tribunal that the circumstances in both areas were almost same, thus denying the benefits for casualties along LAC was strange.
 
 A committee of experts constituted to reduce litigation by Manohar Parrikar when he was defence minister had also come down heavily on MOD for denying benefits to such cases. It had recorded that “it was extremely unfortunate that benefits to similarly placed individuals in parallel on-ground situations were being held back due to such hyper-technical reasons or lack of paper-formalities”.
 
 The committee had also deprecated the attitude of financial entities in denying benefits, observing, “We find it difficult to digest as to how logic itself is being stretched to illogical limits due to an allpervasive pessimistic environment just to deny benefits to our men and women in uniform”.
 
 According to sources, though the defence minister had agreed to remove such anomalies in principle and around 40 recommendations of the committee of experts were accepted, the MOD, however, is yet to implement them.
 
 
