MUMBAI: The BMC has served a notice to Gouri Kunj, the bungalow of legendary actor-playback singer   in Juhu, over illegal construction on the ground floor. The floor has been leased out by the family and is now a restaurant.

  
  
 
 The BMC objected to the unauthorized erection of a shed with steel frame and glass partitions, according to the notice served by its K west (Andheri) ward on January 31, 2018. A copy of the notice is with TOI. Officials said the shed had come up in the mandatory open space area and no permission had been obtained for the unauthorized addition and alteration.
 
 The notice, which did not mention any name but the ground floor of Gouri Kunj, was issued under section 354 (A) of the   Act. “If you are in possession of any permission approved by the competent authority in favour of the erection of the building or execution of the work, you are directed to produce the permission within 24 hours from service of this notice in my office,” it said. Assistant municipal commissioner of K west ward   confirmed the notice and said they had planned a demolition in February. “However, before we could carry out the action, the unauthorized portion was removed by them.”
 
 When contacted, the manager of the singer’s elder son,  , said Kishore Kumar’s younger son Sumeet Kumar would be a better person to talk to. Instead TOI got a call from Parag Sanghvi, linked to the restaurant ‘B’ operating from a 2,500 sq ft area on the ground floor. He said he had taken the ground floor on lease for three years and produced a copy of the health licence obtained from the BMC for the restaurant. It is valid from December 1, 2017, to November 30, 2018. “There was some addition in a very small portion which was removed from our side. We have been operating with all required permissions in place,” said Sanghvi.
 
 Kishore Kumar’s bungalow on Juhu Tara Road has been an iconic landmark since the years when the actorsinger was alive. The low-rise bungalow is surrounded by greenery. The actor, known for his eccentric ways, had said in interviews that he had given individual names to each of these trees. He had a garage in the bungalow backyard where he would park his vintage cars, including the one that featured in his landmark film, ‘Chalti ka naam gaadi’.
 
 
