PATNA: The state government has decided to construct an overbridge (RoB) over Bailey Road near   to avoid frequent traffic snarls.

 The RoB is proposed to be constructed as per recent modifications done in the Lohia Path Chakra project, which consists of several underpasses, overpasses and U-turns between Vidyut Bhawan and  . CM Nitish Kumar has asked Bihar Rajya Pul Nirman Nigam Limited (BRPNNL) -- the executing agency for the Lohia Path project — to send a corresponding request to railways to seek permission for construction of an RoB over the railway crossing.
 
 “The proposed RoB will start from the gate on east Hartali Mor to Punaichak Mor on the west. Its design is being prepared by IIT-Delhi. After that we will submit a formal request to railways seeking its consent for the construction of the same,” BRPNNL managing director   told TOI on Monday. 
 
 Umesh said the RoB has been proposed in an anticipation of an underground corridor under Patna metro rail project at Hartali Mor.
 
 Hartali Mor is one of the city’s busiest road crossings, where traffic snarls are a common sight. The state government has been pursuing to take over the 10km-long   rail line land for quite some time as it remains mostly underutilized. 
 
 A single passenger train makes four trips on this route from   to Digha Ghat through Hartali Mor, Rajiv Nagar, Shivpuri, Punaichak and R-Block in the morning and evening hours, leaving commuters stranded on Bailey Road crossing during peak hours.
 
 According to sources, the occupancy of this train is comparatively poor and most of the passengers are locals. Moreover, the rail track is encroached and badly maintained.
 
 CM Nitish on August 31, 2009, had met and made a personal request to the then railway minister Mamata Banerjee to hand over the Digha railway line land for construction of a four-lane road.
 
 In 2016, railway minister Suresh Prabhu, at a meeting with then deputy chief minister   in New Delhi, had agreed in principle to transfer the 71 acre land on the Patna-Digha railway line to the state government in exchange of a plot of land. The matter is still pending.
 
 
