CHENNAI: Two days after the police opened fire on violent anti-Sterlite protesters in  , Tamil Nadu chief minister K Palaniswami blamed opposition parties and anti-social elements for instigating the violence.

 
 Addressing reporters at the secretariat on Thursday, the chief minister said the police had followed procedures as per law before opening fire at the protesters. “Section 144 of the CrPC was promulgated in Tuticorin to prevent violence. But some opposition parties and anti-social elements were instigating innocent people to pressure the government and bring us a bad name,” he said.
 
 
  
 
 Palaniswami said he and senior cabinet colleagues had been closely watching the developments in Tuticorin. “We were sitting at the secretariat on the day and watching the happenings in Tuticorin through TV channels. Police followed all steps as per the law before resorting to firing. It was done in self-defence,” he said.
 
 The CM said he could not visit Tuticorin as Section 144 of the CrPC was in force. “I will not violate prohibitory orders like Stalin and Kamal did,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 Both Stalin and MNM leader Kamal Haasan have been booked for violating ban orders and visiting the Tuticorin hospital and interacting with reporters.
 
 Claiming that his government was always with the people, the chief minister said the government was taking all steps to shut down operations at the Sterlite factory in Tuticorin.
 
 “When J Jayalalithaa was chief minister in 2013, the government disconnected the power connection to Sterlite. But the company approached the   and got a favourable order to get back power connection with some conditions,” said the chief minister.
 
 Following this, the government filed a case against the Green Tribunal order in the  , which is still pending, Palaniswami said. The company filed an application to renew its registration with the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board but it was denied. On Thursday, power supply to the company was cut. “The company cannot continue to function without permission from the TNPCB,” said the chief minister.
 
 “We are only following all the steps taken by the government under Jayalalithaa. We have so far held 14 meetings with the protesters since their agitations against the company started,” said Palaniswami. He said that through the courts the government was taking all steps to close the company in Tuticorin. After taking a few questions, the chief minister left hurriedly.
 
 
