From poisoning and injuring marine life to disrupting human hormones, from littering our beaches and landscapes, to clogging our waste streams and landfills, the exponential growth of plastics is now threatening the survival of our planet... The world must perceive plastics not only as an environmental challenge of global proportions, but a symbol of the values that need to change to build a more sustainable and just world,” implores the   Network calling out people to ‘End Plastic Pollution’. This Earth Day, let’s take a pledge to live a plastic-free life. These conscious citizens show us how small changes can make a world of difference!

 
 The birth of a baby marks a new beginning for parents; one that brings with it a steady supply of needless plastics and unsustainable products. Think diapers, feeding bottles, toys, cribs, baby products in plastic 
 packaging, you name it! But  , a sustainable materials researcher and designer, decided to opt for green parenting right from day 1! “From reusing a cardboard box as a play pen instead of the popular plastic-ridden pack-n-play units, to using washable cloth diapers that can be reused, to playing with traditional Chennapatna wooden toys, my baby Maahen has had a sustainable journey right from his first day on earth. Also, no packaged baby food for him, only natural homemade food! I believe green parenting is the only solution if we want to raise at least the next generation as conscious, eco-friendly earth warriors,” says Shubhi.
 
 
 
 An average woman uses 11,000 disposable menstrual products in a lifetime. Tampons, pads, pantyliners, and the packaging they come in, generate millions of tonnes of plastic waste world over. But you can choose to have an earth-friendly period as  , a sustainable menstruation advocate, points out: “I switched to menstrual cups a year or so ago. When I used it for the first time it was uncomfortable, but later I got used to it and now I think it’s the easiest, cheapest menstrual hygiene product. A cup worth `400 can last for 7-10 years. And as it’s made of silicon, it can be burnt and disposed, ashes of which are also safe for environment.”
 
 
 
 Imagine something you use for barely 10 minutes, lying around on our planet for tens of thousands of years! Keep this in mind the next time you sip your drink using a plastic straw. And that’s why it makes sense to join the #NoStrawsPlease movement. And if you must sip using one, take a cue from  , who says, “plastic straws suck! they aren’t good for us or for our earth. steel straws are a great alternative. You find them online easily and you can carry one in your purse always.”
 
 
 
 
 The government has been harping about segregating waste into wet and dry, but most often, it all gets mixed up at the landfill, yet again. The ideal thing to do is to compost your biodegradable waste.  , a vegan activist, explains, “It is so important to give back to the Earth what belongs to it. So I ensure I compost all the bio-degradable waste in my compost bin. My mom and I have been doing this for over a year-and-a-half and we no longer have the guilt of throwing away what can actually be useful to the environment and nature. Plus, when we don’t segregate our waste it ends up along with harmful plastic into landfills or larger bins, from where stray animals eat. A cow was found with 20 kilos of plastic in her stomach! This needs to end!”
 
 
 
 
 Every time you order your favourite coffee, you are adding to the woes of the earth. How? Even if your disposable cup is made of paper, there’s a thin plastic lining inside it which makes it nearly impossible to recycle. Plus, the lid is always plastic. Sameer M., a vegan volunteer, has a clever solution. “Just bring your own cup. That’s what I do — I take my coffee mug and a reusable glass straw everywhere I go. I ask for my coffee/drink to be served in it. Almost all vendors are happy to oblige. Ever since I was awakened to the detrimental effects of non-biodegradable waste on our ecosystem and the misery it causes to both humans and animals, I have been taking many steps like this. I feel avoiding disposables and reducing waste overall is the least we can do for our planet.” 
 
 
 
 Don’t toss the disposable stuff you buy into the bin mindlessly. You might think that you have done your bit, but your waste is just going to sit in some landfill and leech into the soil. Software engineer   has a tip: “avoid disposables totally, minimise non-biodegradable waste in general, and recycle whatever you cannot avoid consuming. At home instead of using a plastic bin for dry waste and throwing it away, we accumulate dry waste in a used cardboard box and get it recycled periodically. Since last year, we’ve been doing it through toter.in, an online recycling service which provides home pick-ups.”
 
 
 
 
 From jars to store food to water bottles, kitchen equipment and even simple items like cups, tiffin boxes and trays — most modern Indian homes are filled with plastic. Social entrepreneur   believes it’s just a result of not making conscious choices as consumers. “just the thought that we and the generations before us inherited a beautiful planet but what we are giving our children and grandchildren as our legacy is a toxic waste-choked environment provoked me to switch from plastics to handmade, sustainable items for my house. It’s doable, all we need to do is spare a thought.”
 
 
 
 
 Over 100 million marine animals, including turtles, fish and birds are killed each year due to plastic debris in the ocean. Marine animals often mistake plastic bags floating in water for jellyfish or other food. Plastic cannot be digested or passed by an animal, so it stays in the gut and kills them. “We have so many options now, from jute bags to cloth ones that can be reused. plastic is a manmade disaster. So take a vow to avoid plastic carry bags,” says  , environmentalist and superintendent, OU.
 
 
 
 A 2017 study revealed that humans produce 20,000 plastic bottles every second and buy a million bottles every minute! All of them end up in our oceans. A majority of these bottles are used for drinking water. It’s simple. We have to stop drinking bottled water! Shankul Varada, a musician, says, “I carry my copper bottle with me everywhere and refill it when I have to. copper has antimicrobial properties so it’s good for health as well.” Vishwas Joga, a tax manager adds, “I decided not to buy bottled water ever after watching a documentary in 2016. It’s been two years, and I’ve managed to live without bottled water. I carry my glass or steel bottle wherever I go.” 
 
 
 
 
 Plastic spoons to taste ice cream, plastic forks to eat chow mein on the street, plastic bowls for paani puri — just how much plastic cutlery are we guilty of using in a week; a month; a year?! The statistics can be staggering. Next time, carry your own cutlery around. It’s doable, assures Sitaram Devi Alluri, an activist. “I always carry a steel spoon and fork in my bag so that I can avoid using the plastic spoons given at eateries. It’s a small step but it can do the earth a world of good.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
