THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The technology companies often lament about the difficulty in getting industry-ready talents. A similar complaint is levelled by academic institutions, which cite how outdated curriculums hamper the job prospects of students being trained.

 Now, IT firm   has stepped in to do their bit to bridge the industry-academia gap. UST Global has signed a memorandum of understanding with the   Trivandrum (CET) which will allow Infinity Labs, an innovation centre of UST Global, and   students to jointly collaborate in cutting edge technologies like   and   ( ).
 
 The MoU will help students enhance their knowledge about the latest technologies by working on UST Global’s innovation ecosystem. The internship is for a duration of 3-6 months and the students will work from UST Global’s campus in phase II of Technopark. 
 
 UST Global Infinity Labs is building digital innovation capabilities across domains like artificial intelligence, machine learning, analytics, robotic process automation, mobile, augmented reality, internet of things, blockchain, cyber security, design thinking and enterprise computing. 
 
 As per the programme, MTech students and third and fourth year BTech students can attend the programme. UST is planning to accommodate 30-40 students at a time for the 3-6 months course.
 
 CET principal J David emphasized that the association with UST will bridge the gap between academia and industry. “The students will get an opportunity to work on state-of-the art labs and also keep updated on the latest technologies in various disciplines, which will help them mould their career. This will equip students to take up challenging problems posed by the   and help developing solutions for them,” said David. 
 
 What has prompted the CET to actively explore the possibility for industry collaboration with Infinity Lab is the enthusiasm shown by a large number of students who have taken projects related to areas like data analytics, block chain, artificial intelligence, deep learning, robotics, internet of things and financial engineering. 
 
 “We already have multi-disciplinary courses and work together with institutions like ICFOSS to promote innovation,” said Renjith S Kumar, associate professor, CET. 
 
 As the first step, the Infinity Labs, UST and CET-Centre for Interdisciplinary Research will join hands to develop a novel social robot for UST. The collaborative project requires expertise in state-of-the-art digital technologies such as robotics, automation, internet of things, deep learning and artificial intelligence. 
 
 Commenting on the MoU, Sachith Sebastian, senior director - Digital Innovation and Head – Infinity labs, UST Global, said, “We are happy to join hands with the CET to engage student interns in our state-of-the-art Infinity LabsTM, to work on innovative digital solutions and platforms. We are confident that they can help us in coming up with innovative concepts and ideas to solve business problems of our Fortune 500/Global 1000 customers”.
 
 
