MYSURU: The dark clouds parted, and the bright light of the Sun shone through on Sunday following heavy showers on Saturday night across South Interior Karnataka. Although no fatalities have been reported in any of the districts, many standing crops have been washed away. However, good pre-monsoon showers have brought in some cheer, since they are expected to ease the drinking water situation in the region.

 
 In  , civic authorities were flooded with complaints of waterlogging, and trees coming crashing. Jayalskhmipuram, Hebbal were among the areas worst affected by the rain.
 
  
 Chamarajanagar district too received heavy rain on Saturday night, with Kollegal taluk recording the highest – 60mm.
 
 However, onion cultivators are not too happy with the pre-monsoon showers. In Gundlupet, onions grown across hundreds of acres were washed away.
 
 In Hassan, Beluru and Shravanabelagola towns recorded 50mm rainfall, while Holenarasipura and Chnnarayapatna saw 20mm rain.
 
 On the other hand, officials in the agriculture department said that many farmers had started sowing activity in the wake of good pre-monsoon showers. “The department is prepared to supply all the necessary inputs to farmers for farming activity in the monsoon season,” said an official in the agriculture department.
 
 Rainfall continued in Shivamogga and Chikkamagaluru district. Anavatti and Tyagarthi in Shivamogga respectively received 40mm and 30mm rainfall, while Jayapura (40mm) and Sringeri (30mm) received the highest rainfall in Chikkamagaluru.
 
 In Kodagu, Madikeri received 7.2mm rain. According to officials at the Indian Meteorological Department, heavy rain is expected to continue in South Interior Karnataka for the next three to four days.
 
 Tank bund breached in  
 
 Heavy rain on Saturday night saw the bund of a tank at Nayakanahalli in KR Pete taluk being breached, resulting in standing crops worth lakhs of rupees being washed away. The residents attributed the breach in the tank to the shoddy quality of work that was carried out to repair the bund recently. Reports of electricity poles crashing, and trees being uprooted were reported from several parts of Mandya.
 
 Meanwhile, other parts of Mandya continued to be lashed by heavy rain with Basaralu village recording 50mm on Saturday night.
 
 Water level at KRS rises
 
 On the other hand, heavy pre-msonsoon showers in the catchment area of the River Cauvery have resulted in the water level at the   (KRS) reservoir rise. Water level at the dam stood at 75.9ft on Sunday, with the reservoir registering an inflow of 1,921 cusecs. The water level at the dam for the corresponding period last year was 68.19ft, against a capacity of 124.8ft.
 
 
