The last two times   had come to the city, it was to shoot for his TV shows. But this time, Ali was in the Pink City in the capacity of a DJ as he performed at a city nightclub. The former Bigg Boss contestant has been channelling his inner musician by moonlighting as a DJ for sometime now. When we spoke to him on his recent visit, he shared with us that he has been into DJing since 2015 but it is only in 2017 that he started promoting himself as a DJ and took up a lot of shows, nationally and internationally. “I did as many as 110 shows as DJ, including one in Dubai in 2017,” said the actor-DJ who also told us that it was in Jaipur that he faced the camera for a TV show the first time.

 
 
 
  
  
 
 Ali shared with us his roller coaster journey in showbiz and how ultimately he took up DJing. “Life went topsy-turvy after   and particularly after my separation with   to whom I got married on the show. I did it for publicity and it was the biggest mistake of my career. I regret it. My reputation was in tatters after that,” he said, adding, “Meanwhile, I was being offered a lot of shows along the lines of Sacch Ka Saamna. But I didn’t want to do such shows; I had already made one mistake and I didn’t want to make another. So, I purposely took a break for a year or so.”
 
 Ali said, “As they say, ‘out of sight, out of mind’. I thought if I go away from the public eye, people would forget everything that had happened. It was during that period that I got involved with music. I took a formal training in Djing from a Mumbai-based academy and soon, I started producing music. Then, I made a comeback on TV with   –’Disaster Series’ followed by a few other shows including Sadda Haq (season 2). But I was simultaneously involved with music.”
 
  
  
 
 But the journey of turning a DJ was not an easy one. Ali told us, “In 2015, I started performing at a few venues. This also invited a lot of criticism and many people said that since acting didn’t work out, I have taken to Djing. Even few fellow DJs said that Ali toh actor hai, known face hai. Isko toh shows easily mil jayenge. Isko kahaan kuch karna padega? But that is not true. Being a DJ is not a cakewalk and I did a lot of hard work to master this art. Nevertheless, in 2017, I got fully involved with this profession and started promoting myself as a DJ,” said Ali.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 So has acting taken a backseat? “Not at all,” Ali quickly answered, adding, “Acting has and will always be my first love. I am balancing both – acting and Djing. My remixes of Tamma Tamma Loge and Gulabo have really done well and I will be coming up with more such remixes now.” When asked if he has been a victim of online trolls, something that   and   had to face when they decided to be DJs, Ali said, “Luckily, no! Main abhi bacha hua hoon,” he said with a laugh.
 
 
  
  
 
 Talking about Jaipur, Ali said, “The first time I faced the camera for a TV show was in Jaipur. I was shooting for Ssshhhh...Koi Hai at Amber Fort and Nahargarh Fort. I have shot for Ek Thi Rajkumari as well here. Jaipur is a lovely city. People are very humble and soft-spoken. Also, Jaipur is evolving a lot in terms of music. People are getting a lot more aware of international music.” Ali also told us that he is working on a concept with one of his musician friends where they are creating a fusion of Rajasthani folk music with American music.
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
