CHENNAI: The bus fare hike in January has changed the way Chennai commutes. While initially, a section of   bus users moved towards the suburban train network, many are now opting for share autos whose numbers have gone up after the fare revision.

 Most of these autos, which earlier plied in the suburbs, have extended services to core areas. But despite the growing popularity, rides on share autos are illegal as these vehicles have permits only to be run as contract carriages and not as stage carriers. Contract carriages are not allowed to stop en route and pick up or drop passengers. Despite the presence of 10,000-plus share autos in the city, only 4,000-plus cases have been booked against them for various offences.
 
 
  
 
 Instead of stopping these autos, the government must regularise them as 5 lakh people depend on them every day, say experts. "Share autos are a necessity & need to be regularised," said K R ‘Traffic’  , the social activist who filed a petition at the Madras high court in connection with these vehicles.
 
 Women prefer share autos because the seats and footsteps are better designed than buses. Also, passengers can board or alight at a desired point, ensuring last-mile connectivity, unlike MTC buses, said an expert who advises the transport department. "But share autos should not increase the cost of public transport. The government should regularise operation such that they coexist with other modes," the expert said.
 
 Share auto drivers said regularising the vehicles as stage carriers would up the taxes. At present, the owners pay `4,000 as tax for five years. That will become `6,500, excluding 10% surcharge, if they are registered as stage carriers, said a retired transport department official. "This will end up in higher fares," he said.
 
 "Currently, we work for 12 hours to 14 hours to earn `3,000 to `4,000 a day. Nearly 70% of this is spent on loan, fuel and maintenance. Our profits might decline further if we are going to pay more," said P   from TN Share Auto Owners and Drivers Association.
 
 "At the end of the day, a share auto uses road space efficiently and would deter people from using private vehicles," said   of the Institute for Transportation and Developmental Policy.
 
 K Southern of Sholinganallur, who travels to   on a share auto every day, said though `25 to `30 is charged per trip, sometimes drivers fleece during peak hours. "It would be better if the government comes up with a fare table for share autos," he said.
 
 Ramasamy said the police should crack down on autos stopping in the middle of the road leading to traffic disruptions. Responding to this, a senior traffic police officer said action was being taken against offenders.
 
 
