HYDERABAD: Displaying a sense of urgency in rolling out Phase II of the  , the state government has entrusted the job of preparing the detailed project report (DPR) for the same to the   ( ).

 DMRC was given the job on Thursday, and has to submit the DPR within five months. Incidentally, it was DMRC that had prepared the DPR for Phase I of the Hyderabad Metro Rail project as well.
 
 Official sources said three corridors have been preliminarily identified for Phase II. The corridors, approximately spreading over 60 km, include from   to   airport, BHEL (Ramachandrapuram) to   and   to L B Nagar.
 
 Under Phase I, Corridor III of the metro rail is from Nagole to Shilaparamam-Raidurg.
 
 
 
 
 Under Phase II, the state government plans to extend service from Raidurg to Shamshabad airport via Gachibowli, Telangana Police Academy, Rajendranagar and Shamshabad covering a distance of 28 km to 30 km.
 
 Similarly, Corridor I of Phase I extends from LB Nagar to Miyapur. Under Phase II, the state government wants to extend the busy corridor from BHEL to Miyapur (Madinaguda Jn) and then to Lakdi-kapul via Chandanagar, Madinaguda, Hafeezpet, Kondapur, Botanical Gardens, Gachibowli, Khajaguda junction, HS Darga, Shaikpet, Salarjung Colony, Reti Bowli, Mehdipatnam, NMDC, Masab Tank.
 
 Chief secretary SP Singh reportedly reviewed the availability of land for Metro rail depots for Phase II with collectors of Ranga Reddy and Medchal-Malkajgiri, a couple of weeks ago. Nearly 70 acres is needed either at BHEL or Chandanagar and another 60 acres for Raidurg-Shamshabad route. The government is scouting land near Budvel for the depot. One to six acres is required for parking and circulation in each station.
 
 “The routes and alignments have not been finalised yet. The government may add some more lines after considering various issues like travel demand, financial viability and other issues,” municipal administration principal secretary Arvind Kumar said.
 
 Since the Centre has mandated environmental impact and social impact assessment studies for any major project, DMRC will do the studies, HMRL MD NVS Reddy said.
 
 
 
