Film and television actress  , best known for her roles of Trishna in Kahaani Ghar Ghar Kii and Jethi Maa in  , was shooting in the city recently for the film Mr Paanwala. The film is set on the backdrop of Lucknow, where Yashpal plays a Lakhnavi paanwala while Mita plays his wife. While in the city, Mita, who’s been here once earlier, took the opportunity to go sightseeing. We caught up with the actress on one such trip of hers to the Imambada in Chowk, where she spoke about women in Bollywood and how the age factor should be done away with for women in the Hindi film industry. 
 
 
 
 Bollywood has to go long way before they really empower women. And it has to start with thinking of writing films with women of every age in the main lead. Most of the time, the minute an actress turns 35, she can only do mother’s roles while heroes can be playing heroes even when they are well past their prime. I think filmmakers have to understand that women are not just meant to be mother figures beyond the age of 30-35. In fact, they are far more powerful intellectually, emotionally and in every way, and have much more potential when they cross that age. Like the recent Oscars awards, where   won at the age of 60. And this is not new for Hollywood. They have been making films for the women in 50-60s for years now. So, I think, the starting point would be where Bollywood starts thinking women as interesting human beings beyond the age of 35 and make interesting films, and then they have a long way to go. 
 And it’s not just Bollywood. In the airlines, for example, a few of them insist on employing hostesses and stewards in their twenties only. I think there is a problem there, I see it as a very degrading thing the way youth is looked at as ‘eye candy’. I think this whole business of age should really be done away with in order to stop typifying young men and women.
 
 
 
 I have come to the city only once for a press conference of Kaala Teeka serial in 2014. I was here for just a few hours and the only thing I remember is having Lucknow’s tasty kebabs. But today I saw the city and it is beautiful. We went through the   area and I saw the Imambada and other old architecture of the Nawabi city this time.
  
  Mita Vasisht at the   in Chowk, Lucknow (BCCL / Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui) 
 
 Q. 
 
 I have been doing a lot of things, but you know aaj agar aap reality shows mein aa jao toh aap limelight mein hote ho. I wanted to do something more creative, so was busy with that. I just completed the shooting of a feature film in Rajasthan where also I am playing a lead role. Last year I was busy shooting for serial Koi Laut Ke Aaya Hai. Also, I am shooting a non-fiction film written and directed by me for the Films Division. It’s about art and craft of the actor, and how to achieve success in acting. From   to cinema, it elaborates the process. It is all about how to train yourself as an actor. So, I am busy being behind the limelight.
 
 
 
 My first love is acting, iski wajah se baaki cheezen hona shuru hui, baad mein. Acting comes naturally to me. If you wake me from sleep and hand me a script I will understand the characterization immediately. It is a balance of mind, body, analytical thinking and emotional landscape, so acting is just not the medium of my livelihood but it’s the urge from within which I recognized at the age of 19.
 
 
 An NGO called me for a prize distribution there but instead, I asked them to let me conduct a workshop. I did theater workshops with the girls regularly for around 4-5 years. Theater is all-encompassing, it has dance, poetry, music, speech and voice training, martial arts. So when the trafficked minor victims got associated with performing arts, it helped them to heal and transform mentally, emotionally, intellectually and physically, as well. Today all of them are leading regular lives. So, I think theater has been highly successful in helping these kids and it can surely bring about a change in the society, if required. Theater can provide a space for intellectual discourse and self-realization and reasoning and learning for the society and it is important for intellectual health, emotional and spiritual well-being of people.
 
 — Abhishek.Shukla2@timesgroup.com
 
 
 
