AMRITSAR: Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) and Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (PSGPC) have locked horns over the logjam on the construction of the   cremation ground. In a blame game,   has put the onus on the   for misleading the Sikh community and also questioned its stoic silence on the criticism of the founder of Sikhism Guru Nanak Dev by Lashkar-e-Taiba leader Abdul Rehman Makki.

 Talking to TOI on Friday, DSGMC president Manjit Singh GK said PSGPC general secretary Gopal Singh Chawla had been misleading the Pakistani Sikh community on the cremation ground and was issuing baseless statements. He questioned Chawla for holding a meeting of terror mastermind Hafiz Saeed at Gurdwara Nankana Sahib recently and the committee's silence on objectionable uttering against Guru Nanak Dev by Saeed’s brother-in-law Makki.
 
 The spate of allegations began after a Sikh from Peshawar, Gurpal Singh filed a writ petition in the Peshawar high court seeking to direct the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa government to release Rs 3 crore as allocated by it in the 2017-18 budget to build a crematorium for the Sikhs and a graveyard for Christians. GK asked the Pakistan government to allot a land for the crematorium in the absence of which he claimed that Sikhs of Peshawar were forced to bury the deceased. He had also offered financial assistance for the construction work.
 
 “I had offered to contribute to both DSGMC and Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee for the construction of the crematorium,” said GK. Chawla in his video uploaded on social media on Friday advised GK to restrain himself from resolving issues related to Sikhs and India and intervening in the affairs of Sikhs in Pakistan. He also denied Sikhs were forced to bury the deceased in graveyards. On the financial assistance offer by GK, Chawla, a close confident of Hafiz Seed, boasted that Sikhs of Peshawar were quite affluent and could send money to DSGMC. He had also claimed that there was a crematorium situated about 10 km from Peshawar.
 
 GK said the nearest crematorium was at Attock, some 45km from Peshawar and blamed Chawla for lying to the community.
 
 
