NEW DELHI: The National Investment and Infrastructure Fund ( ) has partnered with DP World to create an investment platform for ports, terminals, transportation and logistics businesses in India. 

 This is the first investment by NIIF and the two partners are likely to invest up to $3 billion to acquire assets and develop projects in the sector. The government is banking on NIIF, announced in the 2015-16 Budget, to kickstart the infrastructure sector and help support robust economic growth. The platform will invest in opportunities in the port sector, and beyond sea ports and in areas such as river ports and transportation, freight corridors, port-led special economic zones, inland container terminals, and logistics infrastructure, including cold storage, according to a finance ministry statement. 
 
 The NIIF Master Fund kicked off in October with contributions from a subsidiary of Abu Dhabi Investment Authority (ADIA) and four domestic institutional investors (DIIs) such as HDFC group, ICICI Bank, Kotak Mahindra Life and Axis bank. An India-UK   (GGEF) is also being set up under the fund of funds vertical of NIIF, and will have anchor commitments of 120 million pounds each from the British and the Indian governments “NIIF, set-up to function as a major platform in India for attracting foreign investments, has made good progress. 
 
 We are pleased to learn of NIIF’s first investment to create an investment platform in the ports and logistics sector. Following its First Close in October 2017 on the fundraising side, and now with its first investment, NIIF is making visible progress,’’ said economic affairs secretary   Garg. The NIIF is being operationalised by establishing three alternative investment funds (AIFs) under the   regulations. The proposed corpus of NIIF is Rs 40,000 crore (around $6 billion). 
 
 The government’s contribution to the AIFs under the NIIF scheme shall be 49% of the total commitment. “This is a good example of how NIIF can work with international capital and expertise to invest at scale to build critical infrastructure in India,” said Sujoy Bose, CEO, NIIF.
 
