NAGPUR: In some worry for Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro),   ( ) has laid down three pre-conditions to hand over its land for Metro Rail’s commercial projects — adjustment of land value in its share of 5% of project cost, sharing 50% revenue with it, and rehabilitation of its lease holders free of cost in the proposed projects.

 
 
  
  
 The NMC general body in a meeting on Friday passed the resolution to hand over sprawling land measuring 70,424.64 sq m covering Mahatma Phule Market bhavan, vegetable market at Cotton Market, a school, octroi check post, khoa, paan and santra markets, and private bus stand between Cotton Market Square and Central Avenue (CA), along with 6,289.90 sq m land covering Gol Bazaar at Gaddigodam, and 2,000 sq m land reserved for parking behind Zero Mile to MahaMetro.
 
 Ruling party leader Sandip Joshi and standing committee chairman Virendra Kukreja said NMC will adjust value of the lands as per latest ready reckoner value in its 5% share of Metro cost. “There will be an escrow account in which MahaMetro will have to deposit 50% of the revenue earned from these lands. The land will be handed over only after temporary rehabilitation of NMC’s lease holders, followed by their permanent rehabilitation in the proposed projects. NMC had already given its land for the project. MahaMetro will have to deposit the value of these lands in case the value goes over NMC’s 5% share,” they said.
 
 Joshi said proposal to demolish the flyover in front of the railway station and rehabilitate shopkeepers below the flyover in proposed project of MahaMetro towards east of Railway station will be tabled in the next meeting.
 
 Congress corporators Praful Gudadhe and Tanaji Wanve took objection to handing over lands to MahaMetro before changing reservation. “NMC acquired the land behind Zero Mile by giving TDR for parking. It will also be an injustice towards the land owners. Similarly, there are various types of reservations on the other two lands. NMC cannot take a decision to hand over lands for Metro Rail project before changing reservations. The same issues will be applicable in other cases in coming days, if NMC takes such a decision,” they alerted NMC.
 
 NMC’s conditions have raised a doubt whether MahaMetro is avoiding some projects for feasibility of Metro Rail project. MahaMetro will also have to spend on the project development.
 
 MahaMetro MD Brijesh Dixit said the three conditions will have no impact on the projects. “Three lands have been given by NMC for corridor and stations. Condition of adjustment of land value in NMC’s share, and incorporation of lease holders in the project are fine. We will examine condition of sharing 50% revenue with NMC. But we thank NMC for the decision, and will work jointly with the civic body to develop the projects,” he said.
 
 NMC also imposed a condition on MahaMetro to name the project on the land of Cotton Market after Mahatma Jyotiba Phule. Other conditions include exclusion of Shaheed Maidan and school building from the project between Cotton Market Square and CA.
 
 
