GURUGRAM:   affects around 65% students of  , according to the   (SCERT), which conducted a state-wide survey on exam stress during November-December 2017. The results of the survey were released on Friday. 

 The survey is part of a bigger survey on adolescents in the state, whose results are expected to be released next month. It consisted of four parts — general information about the children, their families and backgrounds, challenges they face while growing up (which includes exam stress) and their knowledge of HIV, drugs and sexual harassment. SCERT officials said the survey was conducted to know what kids were doing, what they were thinking and learning, and what authorities could do to improve their lives.
 
 According to the report, a majority of students in government schools across the state are stressed during examinations. While the percentage of students who are stressed in the entire state is around 61%, 65% of kids surveyed in Gurgaon said they were worried about not performing well in exams. Brahm Prakash, who led the survey, said: “It shows students see exams as a burden. Steps are being taken at the district level to ensure students don’t feel pressure during exams.”
 
 Carried out in 119 blocks in Gurgaon, 33,660 students — 14,467 boys and 19,193 girls — were given questionnaires to fill for the survey. Asked if they knew about stress, 72% said ‘yes’, 25% said ‘no’ and 4% gave no response. Around 19% were from urban backgrounds, whereas around 81% hailed from rural areas.
 
 Speaking about the survey, SCERT director   said, “There is immense stress among students today. Parents are giving stress to kids. They don’t give them breaks between studies. Gaps in the teaching-learning process are not being filled. Parents only tend to criticise schools, but don’t care if their kids are learning effectively.” 
 
 To beat stress, most students prefer listening to music. Around 64% of students in Gurgaon listen to music to beat stress, while the number was 65% in Faridabad. Some preferred to do other things to deal with stress — in the entire state, around 55% enjoyed listening to music, 25% read books and 20% preferred to play. 
 
 Experts said to tackle exam stress, one should study for short intervals with breaks in between. “ Instead of studying overnight before exams, students should have a full night’s rest. A healthy diet with short breaks between studies is also important,” said Shweta Sharma, clinical psychologist, Columbia Asia hospital.
 
 Career counsellor Hema Gupta also spoke to TOI about various methods for students to succeed in exams. “Most parents worry their kids won’t score high marks or that their colleagues’ kids will perform better. There is intense competition among students these days. It’s essential parents maintain calm and not add to the kid’s stress. Students should self-assess and solve sample papers before exams.”
 
 
