Nagpur: Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Bombay, has stated there will be no danger to Ambazari lake’s embankment by vibrations caused by Metro Rail passing close to it. The premier institute has pointed out there was also no impact on embankment of traffic on the road adjacent to it. Following suggestion from an all government departments’ team, Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Ltd (MahaMetro) had asked IIT-Bombay to conduct study and give report on impact of Metro Rail’s vibration on the dam that is 148-year-old and has its official life over. IIT-Bombay submitted the report dated April 30 to MahaMetro that shared it with Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), Water Resources Department (WRD), Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation (VIDC) and Dam Safety Organisation (DSO) on Monday. As per the report, IIT Bombay conducted study/analysis based on tests and study carried out by Bengaluru-based National Institute of Rock Mechanics’ (NIRM) department of engineering geophysics. NIRM submitted its report titled geophysical survey for parametric evaluation of vibration induced instability of Ambazari dam to IIT Bombay on April 27. The report is major relief for MahaMetro for continuing the work of the corridor and station near the embankment. Institute chair professor of department of civil engineering, IIT Bombay DN Singh said in the report, “Ambazari dam is a stable structure and its safety due to movement of traffic, either on the existing road, or Metro Trains along the proposed elevated corridor, should not be critical. I would like to state the measured Peak Particle Velocity (PPV) values are much less compared to the permissible limits reported in literature.” The study was conducted using a vibratory road compactor (road roller) at the embankment. “Machine capable of producing compaction frequency of 30 Hz with a high and low amplitude of 1.72mm and 0.8mm, respectively, was employed to generate a sustained steady-state vibration to simulate the vibrations induced due to a moving train. The level of vibrations simulated by the compactor, on the ground, is much higher than those expected due to the movement of trains,” the report stated. Accordingly, six types of inferences were listed in the report. “Average PPP value recorded on the dam’s top was 1 mm/sec which is insignificant for causing vibration induced stability. Average Peak Ground Acceleration (PGA) recorded on dam’s top was 0.08g which has virtually no potential to cause any damage to the dam. Peak frequency response of the dam is about 25 Hz which is way off its natural frequency of 15 HZ as determined by the NIRM and does not pose any risk to the dam. Section of the dam’s body has well compacted soil and its foundation regime rests on firm rock which is evident from the analysis of the shear wave velocity sections. No anomalous pattern that could be responsible for amplitude amplification or any other adverse effects due to the ground vibrations is mapped anywhere,” report said.