 
 LUDHIANA: A day after the landslide victory of Congress in the Municipal Corporation elections and a word of encouragement to the local leaders for their efforts, the loyalists of local MLAs have started lobbying for their favourite legislators for their inclusion in the cabinet expansion, which is expected to take place shortly. 
  
 While the MLAs, tipped to be in the race for the cabinet are refusing to come on record on the issue, their supporters claim that besides experience, the contribution in terms of making party’s candiadte victorious in the MC polls should not be overlooked and given some weightage. 
  
 A few weeks ago, when the rumours of cabinet expansion had started doing the rounds during Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s visit to Delhi, he had indicated that any such move would be possible only after the Ludhiana MC elections. In fact the MC polls had become a prestige issue for the Congress MLAs in Ludhiana who had put all their efforts to make maximum number of wards victorious in their respective constituencies. Going by the claims being made by the supporters, the three MLAs from city;  , Surinder Dawar and   Ashu were being seen as possible contenders, as Ludhiana so has has gone unrepresented in the cabinet. Though some party leaders maintained that the MC polls are too local a subject, some of them reiterated that the district deserves to get representation in the cabinet. The party has won maximum number of wards, 17 out of 18 in the West constituency that belongs to Ashu. Only one Congress candidate Sneh Lata, wife of Balkar Sandhu was defeated. 
  
 Despite its overall good performance, the party has not performed well in the Central constituency, once its strong hold, by losing 50% of the seats. From the constituency reprsented by MLA Dawar, out of 15 seats, the Congress candidates has won only 8 wards and got defeats on 7 seats. Those who lost included prominent faces like former councilor Ravinder Kaur Chadha, Anju Bagga, Saroj Beri wife of ex councillor Satpal Beri, Amarjit Singh Oberoi and  . Even the daughter in law of Dawar, Shallu Dawar was defeated in the MC polls. 
  
 Similarly in the North constituency out of 16 seats Congress won 11 seats and lost in 5 wards. In the East constituency represented by Sanjay Talwar as an MLA, the performance has been a bit better where in out of 9 seats, Congress candidates won from 15 wards. 
  
 The party insiders claim that the factors behind defeat on some of the prominent positions was the result of groupism among the party leaders especially the rebels who were not allowed to contest as independent candidates as a result they did not support the party candidates. 
  
 However when contacted MLA Surinder Dawar said that there were many factors behind the defeat. However however mentioned that it was unlikely that the outcome of MC polls would have any bearing on the prospects of any MLA for his inclusion into the cabinet. 
  
 MLA Bharat Bhushan too refused to link the two issues and gave the credit to the entire team and party workers for party’s good performance in the MC polls. Claiming he had not clue about the expansion, he said he was more concerned about the development works in his area. He said that even if he does not get any position, he would continue to strive for the betterment of society. 
  
 MLA Rakesh Pandey however said that in his constituency the elections were peaceful as not even single incident of violence took place. Regarding cabinet expansion he said it was unlikely that the outcome of MC polls would have a bearing on the same. 
  
 State general secretary of Congress Pawan Dewan said being among the most important cities of the state Ludhiana should get representation in the cabinet as almost every type of industry is there in city. However he denied from MC poll results being a factor in deciding the cabinet rank for MLAs while saying that seniority of the MLAs will be more important. 
  
  
