PATNA: The   ( ) of Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan and the Rashtriya Lok Samta Party (RLSP) led by   on Saturday said they would launch an agitation to demand reservation in recruitment of judges in the apex court and higher judiciary.

 The two NDA allies expressed serious concern over “very negligible representation” of SCs, STs and OBCs in the   and high courts. Addressing an event on the birth anniversary of B R Ambedkar here, Paswan asked as to why no person was found guilty by the judiciary in the infamous Laxmanpur-Bathe massacre where altogether 61 Dalits were killed in cold blood. “We will soon launch an agitation to demand quota in higher judiciary (  and high courts),” he said.
 
 The LJP chief also asked the Centre to take statutory steps to restore the provisions of quota in promotions for SC/ST, which was annulled by the Supreme Court a few years back.
 
 Quoting a recent statement of President   that “there is unacceptably low representation of traditionally weaker sections such as OBCs, SCs and STs especially in the higher judiciary”, Union minister Upendra Kushwaha said it is high time to understand the President’s pain.
 
 Referring to a recent SC order leading to dilution in the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, Kushwaha said the country’s higher judiciary time and again passed orders which turned out against the interest of weaker sections of the society. “Such orders are coming from higher judiciary only because our people are not there,” he said.
 
 Assuring people that no government has guts to end the constitutional provisions of reservation, Kushwaha said, “Whosoever will dare to annual reservation will write its government’s own death certificate.”
 
 Addressing the event organized by Dalit Sena, a wing of LJP, Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, CM   and deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi repeatedly assured the audience that no one could withdraw the reservation facility in jobs to the beneficiaries.
 
 Kushwaha also said some forces, as part of a conspiracy, have launched a debate on the issue of ending quota system. “They are asking to end quota system, but we are demanding more quota (for  ). ‘Yeh dil maange more’ (we want more quota),” Kushwaha said.
 
 
