There weren't any boxes of sweets doing the rounds, instead, it was a "healthy, roasted namkeen mixture" and some chocolate cookies being served to those who came to congratulate  , who reached Delhi on Tuesday morning after winning gold at the Commonwealth Games in  . Dressed in her training tee and tights, Mary sat casually with a few guests, reminding them that she has won five world championships so far and celebrations in her house never mean that she would shift her focus from her training or diet. She will continue with all that she has been doing to achieve more laurels at the Asian Games, she says.

 
 
 Winning medals is nothing new for  , but clinching a gold medal and becoming the first Indian woman to win a boxing gold at the Commonwealth Games is not just an achievement, but her answer to those who questioned her skills and abilities as a boxing champion. On one hand, she knew she had the public's support, but on the other, she was aware of the growing scepticism because of her age and the fact that she had to move up and down weight categories (she has competed in the 45kg, 48kg and 51kg categories through her career). "People have said different things. From my weight to age – they were discussing everything but my past achievements. I was hurt. I think it is human nature – when you have fought so many odds since childhood, you think you have always given your best, but still there are some people who are busy fault-finding. I have won medals, contributed a lot to boxing and faced a lot of difficulties to reach here, and being a woman, being a mother, I overcame challenges and still I didn’t understand why there were people trying to discourage or distract me. I used to be upset," says Mary, and adds that all the negative comments before the games helped her become more aggressive, something that was extremely important to her game.
 
 "The best way to answer those who try to pull you down is to break your own records. I decided to concentrate on my training and perform better, and I was able to achieve what I wanted to. This win is extremely special to me and I actually feel I have defied the odds once again. Coming back to the country with a gold medal is a great feeling. Returning home without this gold medal wouldn’t have been a happy feeling," says Mary.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 While all the eight men who represented Indian in boxing at the   games returned home with medals, among women boxers, it was only Mary who added to India's medal's tally. Talking about why other women boxers from India are not winning big despite having her as an example, Mary emphasises on the need to strengthen the mind. She says, "They need to be more intense in their training and not treat it casually, which many do. You need to keep working hard without a break to win at the top level. Some of the girls need to focus more on the mental aspect of boxing. The mental strength is the difference. They have the fitness and the physical strength, but lack the willpower and mind to win. If your mind doesn't support you, you cannot win. They are not figuring out how to deal with the pressure of facing a strong opponent. If the opponent is strong, many already think they can’t win. They get intimidated by boxers from some countries. When you have that mental block that this country is strong and we can't win, then you cannot win." Mary adds that resilience, and the ability to overcome defeats, is also something young Indian boxers need to learn. "I lost in the Olympics but I learnt how to overcome that. If I see a strong boxer, I don't think how difficult it will be to beat her, I think if she can, why can't I? That attitude makes the difference."
 
 
 One of the key differences Indian boxing has seen in the last few years is the formation of the  , which has brought in some noted coaches from outside India. Mary says that the technical expertise and insight brought by these coaches has made players more confident. "International coaches have helped us. The   has brought in many foreign coaches and the performance improvement shows. These coaches have lot of experience and they bring new kind of training techniques, particularly to strengthen the mind. In fact, if I compare myself today with how I was eight-nine years ago, I feel I have changed a lot because I am smarter now in handling pressure. I am a lot more confident now, and this is not overconfidence. They give us videos to analyse fights, which never happened before. That prepares you better for the opponent. You worry less," she tells us.
 
  
  M C Mary Kom
 
 
 
 Ask her the reason for male boxers from Haryana doing so well and Mary is quick to point out that most of these male boxers have something the women don't – support from the  . She elaborates, "Yes, a lot of boxers from Haryana are doing well in the men's team, but they also get support from the   (Army Sports Institute). The Army has good facilities and they provide these boxers with everything – best coaches, diet, training. Then, the BFI has brought in foreign coaches and that works together. The two combine in their favour and that is why male boxers are doing so well."
 
 
 Mary's three boys, Khupneivar Kom, Rechungvar Kom and  , who are more interested in playing and watching football than boxing, were for the first time interested in updates from the Gold Coast and about their mother's performance. "They finally know and understand what I do," says Mary with a smile. Her kids would call her before and after the matches, and after she won the gold, they were happy that she would be soon returning with bags full of gifts and toys. "That is what finally matters to them! But on a serious note, my kids have been an important part of this journey – from training to winning the   gold medal – and now they know why I was training so hard. I always wanted them to understand the hard work that goes into achieving something and what it means to achieve something for your country. I think after this win they have got some part of that understanding and that is my biggest reward," says Mary, who is soon planning to take her kids out for a meal. "I think this celebration has been long pending," she says.
 
 
 But Mary is not too keen on resting on her laurels yet. She is all ready to pounce on to the next challenge. "The next challenge is already in the queue – the Asian Games," she says with a gleeful smile, adding, "India is hosting the World Championship, and I am focussing more on that. It's very important – the support of the home crowd. That does not mean that there is an advantage. I have won five World Championship golds, and how many of them were in India? Only one! I have been winning fights in other countries. But it does help, the crowd support. I will give my best, more than 150%, because I want to win and bring laurels for the country."
 
 
  
 
