KOTA: The 19-year-old son of a businessman was abducted and killed by his childhood school friend and the latter’s two neighbours. Police investigations revealed on Friday that the culprits wanted to get rid of their poor financial condition and satisfy their expensive hobbies through a ransom of Rs 15 lakh that they had demanded from the victim’s father.

  (19), a resident of Kherabad town under Ramganjmandi police station of   district, was killed using iron rods and knife, his body was stuffed in a bag with salt powder and dumped by the riverside near Northern Bypass on Wednesday noon under Borekheda police station of Kota district. The body was discovered on Thursday evening near Chandraloi riverside with a hacked throat and marks of injuries. The deceased youth was a second year student of chemical science diploma in a private polytechnic college of the city.
 
 Within hours after the body was found, the police cracked the murder and arrested the three youths for the crime.
 
 The accused were identified as Vikarant Singh Rajput alias Himanshu (18), Vijendra Singh Bhati alias Lucky (20), both residents of Gokul Colony in Borekheda area of  , and Pradeep Kushwaha (18) alias Binny, a native of Bhind district in Madhya Pradesh who was staying in Kota in a rented room. The trio was arrested late on Thursday and produced before the court on Friday morning which sent them to seven days of police remand.
 
 “Vikarant Singh Rajput was a school time friend of the deceased youth and was studying for polytechnic diploma course in chemical science at a private polytechnic college,” Kota city SP Anshuman Bhomia said. “Vikarant and his two friends- one a school dropout and the other in a job- conspired to kidnap a rich person for ransom in order to sort out their poor financial condition and chose Vishal Mewada, whose father is a well-off stone trader,” the SP said.
 
 The three accused on Wednesday morning around 10 o’ clock took the deceased youth for a liquor party to an agriculture field that belonged to one of them and the four of them consumed liquor with the three accused inducing the deceased youth into a heavy drunken state. “Later, around 12 o’ clock on Wednesday the three hacked the youth’s throat with knife and fatally attacked him with iron rods to disfigure his face to cover his identity,” Bhomia said. “The accused after packing the body in a bag with salt powder dumped it near Chandroli River. The accused later got back to the city and made a call to Mewada’s father demanding a ransom amount of Rs. 15 lakh through the victim’s mobile phone.”
 
 The deceased’s family informed police about the abduction and ransom amount around 7 o’clock on Wednesday evening following which seven teams, including that of cyber experts were formed to nab the accused.
 
 “During the investigation, the three accused surfaced suspected and when they were interrogated strictly, they admitted to have committed the crime,” the S.P. city said.
 
 “The three first murdered the youth and then demanded the ransom because the deceased’s friend Vikarant was apprehensive of the fact that Mewada was his friend and if he was left alive, he would one day disclose the ransom conspiracy and would get them behind bars,” the S.P. clarified. Mewada had already been killed by the time police was informed and operation to nab the accused was initiated.
 
 
