Madurai: A three-day ‘mega science exhibition’ conducted as part of the Make in India campaign, with an attempt to inculcate scientific temper among student community, was inaugurated on the premises of the Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) by Tamil Nadu governor, Banwarilal Purohit on Tuesday. 

 The exhibition displays the gadgets and information on science, enabling the student community from constituent, affiliated colleges of the university and schools from neighbouring districts and Madurai as well as public, to get an exposure towards the equipment which are available only in advanced laboratories, according to university sources.
 
 Vice-chancellor of the university, P P Chellathurai said the idea struck him when one of the faculty suggested to hold an exhibition at the department level. It will boost interest among the youngsters and motivated them to pursue science, he said.
 
 The exhibition is organised to serve as a platform for displaying the facilities available in the science departments of the university. Some of the salient features of the exhibition are harnessing solar energy like lights; panels and other related solar energy consumption on display; experts at stalls to provide information on their areas concerned and explain the nuances of energy production and effective consumption to the students.
 
 The zebra fish used for experimentation purpose in biology that was on display, attracted more audience. The bio-ethanol/diesel production was put on demonstration along with the herbal medicines and their DNA component from research perspective. The department of chemistry displayed the chemicals along with the equipment used for conducting experiments in general and the utility of nano technology, nano particles and herbal medicines in particular.
 
 The first day of the event witnessed around 5,000 students who had the opportunity to experience hands-on training with the latest and higher end scientific equipment. The biography and achievements of the scientists from across the globe were put on sidewalls of the nearly one km long pandal, which was a major attraction. The 10 companies supplying scientific equipment and 19 booksellers are also taking part in the event, displaying a list of latest gadgets and books on science.
 
 
