BAREILLY: In an attempt to crack down on those who   by using a hook (kunda) on electricity cables, power department will be forming eight teams. The special teams along with the vigilance squad of police will be conducting   across Bareilly division to check   and legal action will also be initiated against those nabbed.
 
  According to sources in the power department, power theft increases at night. People tend to hook up with power cables during late night hours taking advantage of the darkness. That is why the raids will be conducted at night to keep a check on this.
  
  Speaking with TOI, Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited (UPPCL), executive engineer, Bareilly, PA Moga said, “The special eight teams will be deputed across Bareilly division — two teams each in Bareilly, Shahjahanpur, Badaun and Pilibhit. The teams will comprise departmental officials like SDO and junior engineers who will conduct raids in all areas under the particular district assigned to them. Inspections will also be carried out in the narrow arterial roads and bylanes which have wall–to-wall buildings. Since these places are congested, power theft is more rampant here.”
  
  Qutubkhana, Bara Bazaar, Alamgiriganj, Jagatpur, Saklain Nagar, Sanjay Nagar, Harunagla, Katra Chan Khan, Shaidana, Madinath, Koharapir are among the areas of the city identified by the department where power theft is rampant.
  
  Executive engineer added, “Power theft not only results in loss of revenue to the department but also causes overloading on the distribution network triggering random outages.”
  
  In 2017, the power department had identified around 13,000 consumers involved in power theft in Bareilly division, following which, the department had disconnected supply of a few offenders and FIRs were also lodged against a few at various police stations.
  
  Moreover, the UPPCL will soon be opening its anti-power theft police stations in most of the districts of the state. The project to fight power pilferage and look into electricity-related issues will kickstart in Bareilly, Meerut, Moradabad, Varanasi, Saharanpur, Muzaffarnagar, Kanpur, Allahabad, Jhansi, Gorakhpur, Aligarh in the first phase, TOI had earlier reported.
