NEW DELHI: The   on Thursday told Delhi high court that it decided not to hold re-test of the leaked Class 10 paper “in the larger interest of children” and the limited impact of the leak.

 In an affidavit, the Board justified its stand of not ordering a re-examination, arguing that   of the leaked paper revealed no spike in marks. “The available material and inputs from the on-going police investigations indicated that the alleged leakage of mathematics Class X paper was not wide-spread and seemed confined to a few alleged beneficiaries,” the board said.
 
 “Since Class X students were very anxious about the date of re-conduct of the mathematics paper, as well as large number of requests for claiming that they have no idea of any such leakage nor they are beneficiaries of alleged leakage, subjecting the entire lot for fresh examination would have amounted to extreme pressure and hardship to the tender age children,”   said in its affidavit.
 
 Claiming that it “triggered a scientific approach”, the Board also told HC that the “general trend emerging out of random evaluation of Class X mathematics paper, on priority basis, did not indicate spikes or unusual patterns, giving any impression of passing of widespread benefits of alleged paper leak.”
 
 CBSE also highlighted that Class X is a gateway to Class XI and therefore “remains largely an internal segment of school education system.”
 
 The affidavit was filed in response to a PIL, being heard by a bench of acting Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice C Hari Shankar, in which an NGO sought clarity from CBSE if it intends to hold a re-test of Class X exam or not.
 
 HC had asked the Board to indicate by April 16 its plans, if any, to re-conduct the mathematics test for Class X, but the very next day, on April 3, CBSE issued a notification saying it would not conduct re-examination of the said paper.
 
 CBSE’s reply came on NGO Social Jurist’s plea, filed through advocate Ashok Agarwal, seeking a court-monitored probe into the recent leaks of mathematics and economics question papers of classes X and XII, respectively. The petition also sought a direction to the Board to award liberal marks to the students in mathematics and economics re-examination.
 
 HC had, on the last date of hearing, asked CBSE how it could wait till July to re-conduct the exam and keep the students on “tenterhooks” till then. It also observed that such a step would not only waste an academic year of the students, but would also be akin to keeping “a sword hanging over their heads.”
 
 
