CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh administration has set aside all the orders issued by the   ( ) without seeking approval from the competent authority.

 In past two years, the housing board issued orders considering the needs of the owners of the dwelling units. However, CHB did not seek approval from the  . Not only that, the orders were not in accordance with the Chandigarh Master Plan 2031 and the building bylaws.
 
 The order revoking the relaxations given by the board was passed by UT chief architect.
 
 The board approved installation of grills in balconies/verandahs in the flats and also allowed the owners to make any internal changes within the four walls, without seeking nod from the UT administration. The owners were also allowed to carry out some need-based changes.
 
 The decision to revoke relaxations will, however, not affect those who have already carried out the changes in their dwelling units. They will not be servedd any notices by the administration. The list of relaxations under scanner has been submitted to the committee constituted by the administration for regularising genuine need-based changes made by the owners of the CHB flats.
 
  secretary  , who is holding the charge of CHB chairman, said that the main objective behind the move is to regularise the relaxations which were sanctioned without seeking the approval of the administration.
 
 At present, the committee is in the process of conducting a survey for allowing need-based changes in the flats. Several teams appointed by the CHB are inspecting all the dwelling units to take a note of the type of changes made by the owners in the buildings and whether the changes have impacted the structure stability. The teams will submit their report to the board, following which due consultation will be taken from the Chandigarh administration on the type of changes that should be regularized by the committee.
 
 CHB has developed dwelling units in various sectors, including 29, 41, 40, 44, 43, 45, 47, and 38 (West), and Modern Housing Complex having around 64,000 flats. The board has also established rehabilitation housing schemes.
 
 Over the years, the board has allowed need-based changes in the dwelling units. However, there are many allottees who made additional constructions in their dwelling units which do not fulfill the conditions mentioned in the need-based changes and cannot be regularised.
 
 
