Trichy: With summer vacations under way, attracting a lot of pilgrims and tourists to Sri Ranganathaswamy temple in Srirangam, the prevailing traffic congestion even before entering the pilgrim centre robs devotees of peaceful darshan. As encroachments of street   on carts cause frequent bottlenecks in Thiruvadi Street and Gandhi road, the unnoticed traffic violations such as commuting with vehicles in no- entry zones only add to the traffic snarls.

 Considered as foremost of all Divya Desam temples, Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple in the island surrounded by Kollidam and Cauvery rivers attract on average 5 to 7 lakh domestic tourists and 25,000 international tourists per month according to the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) department.
 
 While the footfall increases during public holidays and even the summer vacation that see families thronging the island, Right of Way (ROW) and traffic regulations on Amma Mandapam road, Gandhi road, and Thiruvadi Street do not cater to the volume of tourists reaching Srirangam.
 
 “Plights caused by vendors operating carts on streets create more chaos than hawkers occupying pedestrian platforms. Without showing any partiality, police personnel, corporation officials, and the HR&CE should work together in removing the encroachments that affect public movement,” R Govindaraju, resident of Srirangam said.
 
 On Tuesday, it is claimed that the encroachments of traders on South entrance of the temple was removed by police. However, similar such encroachments in and around Rajagopuram continues to disturb the free movement of pedestrians. 
 
 Residents claimed that fruit vendors operating on carts right from Raghavendra Nagar arch till Ranga Ranga gopuram pose as a headache to commuters long time now, yet no action was said to be initiated by the civic body.
 
 When contacted, sources with the civic body claimed that street vendors will be streamlined post the constitution of vending committee that would earmark zones for vendors to decongest the arterial stretches.
 
 
