A new year means time for new beginnings, new hopes, news aspirations. And in the coming year, it looks like our city is set for all this and more. So, are you ready to rock 2018? ‘Cos Hyderabad sure is...

 
 Finally, we might just be able to amble around Charminar aimlessly, gawking at the magnificent edifice without motorists blaring horns in our ears! Yes, the much-awaited Charminar Pedestrianisation Project is more closer to becoming a reality than it ever was. If all goes as per the plans of the government and municipal authorities, the 5-km radius of Charminar will become pedestrian friendly so that tourists can experience the Qutb Shahi era monument, by foot. The officials in charge inform that while the relaying of pavements with paver blocks around Charminar and on roads leading to it, from Gulzar house,  , is underway, the larger plan slated for the coming year is to transform the entire area into a slice from the past, with a Qutub Shahi and Asaf Jahi era feel to the cordoned off areas. 
 
 “It’s a massive project which we have kicked off, but before stopping the traffic, we need to re-lay electricity lines, BSNL lines in order to avoid problems later,” says Srinivas Rao, Additional Chief City Planner.
 So, will we see a total ban on traffic around Charminar? Maybe, says conservation architect GSV Suryanaryan Murthy. “Over the past 20 years, many studies have taken place on how the traffic can be regulated in this area and spots have also been identified to provide for sufficient parking area. All we now need is cooperation and political will,” adds Murthy, who has pulled off such architectural makeovers at Golden Temple and Jharkhand.
 The department is also planning to transform the private establishments in a way that they are a throwback to the 16th century Hyderabad. “At the earliest, we will be removing all the unpleasant banners put up by private establishments. This facelift will only be more profitable for the locals,”adds Srinivas. The South   office may also shift its place to give way to a tourist recreation centre with facilities like an information centre and rest areas. The officials have also begun work on setting up two parking slots with a capacity of 1000 vehicles.
 The pedestrian project will also have slip roads for the local shops to bring in their goods and to allow the local residents to travel without hassle.“The government must sensitise people day in an day out that the identity of the city we live in is important.We have to use the city in a way that its identity is retained,” adds Suryanaryan Murthy. So keep your walking shoes ready for the Charminar trail!
 
 
 
 If Traffic police made Hyderabad roads safest in 2017, they have more plans in store for 2018 with newer technologies to make our daily commute safer, easier and better. Come new year, the roads in Cyberabad and West Zone will turn a lot more pro-pedestrian as the Traffic Police of Cyberabad has decided to install over 50 pelican signals and make 50 major crossings, more pedestrian-friendly. “We have identified over 50 junctions without signals, so this year, these would have proper signals so that accidents can be avoided,” says DCP AR Srinivas, Cyberabad Traffic Police. Meanwhile, the Outer Ring Road, which is undoubtedly a haven for smooth rides and speeding, will get a wee bit bumpier as the police is planning to install more speed bumps to regulate speed within 100 kmph. Much needed, considering the ORR has become a death trap due to overspeeding. Here’s to a safer driving experience in 2018.
 
 
 If you were glad that the GES and the World Telugu Conference made your city look good, here is another international event all set to rock Hyderabad. The government has already begun prepping for the World IT Congress and Nasscom India Leaders Forum to be held in the first quarter of the year. While IT congress was a tough win with us pipping Taiwan to get it here, the NILF will be a matter of great pride as for the first time in 25 years the event will be held in a venue outside Mumbai.
 
 
 One department we all love to crib about, the GHMC, actually has some fun plans in store for denizens, especially around the Tech City area. After completing works on the proposed Dog Park, the GHMC has set its sights on making a one-of-its-kind Play Park in Kukatpally. The park will consist of multiple turf courts and recreate play spaces for various sports — from a beach volleyball court to pickle ball court! “We also have plans to commission an athletic running track to encourage sports!” added   D, GHMC West Zone Commissioner. Couch potatoes, now no more excuses!
 
 
 This New Year, you wouldn’t have to spend hours on road and crib about the round-the-year road works in the city. Going by GHMC estimates, all major road development works will be completed by mid-2018. Be it the multilayer flyover at Biodiversity or the underpass at Raheja Mindspace, all projects should materialise by mid-year, inform officials. Infact, happy news comes ringing in the first week of the New Year as the Madhapur-Hitex Underpass will open for public use from January 3 post inauguration. 
 
 
 All 34 Metro stations in the city will soon have an exclusive She Teams Kiosk, and that is great news for women passengers. Speaking to Hyderabad Times, the She Teams head, ACP Kavitha Dara informs that they are also planning for a separate centre to cater to safety needs of women. The She Teams will recruit volunteers to man the kiosk at all times, which women passengers can approach in case of a trouble.
 “We are also planning to make women security councils in every area which will consist of women and men representatives from various walks of life — homemakers, lawyers and activists to students and professors,” adds ACP Kavitha. These teams will act as liaison between the women in the area and She Teams. Ready to kick some ass, girls?
 
 
 The newer parks in the city will all be modelled around ‘mini forests’. One of the goals of the urban forestry officials this year is to restructure the open spaces into tree parks and forest blocks. While the existing 1,300 open spaces are a mix of playgrounds, colony parks and tree blocks, the GHMC officials this year want to try out a mixed approach with assigning spaces for each of these three elements for the public.
 
 
 Starting the year on a sweet note, the   has decided to organise the first ever ‘sweet festival’ which will see sweets from across the country on display under one roof. We hear there will be at least 1,000 varieties, that too all homestyle traditional sweets. Slated to be held from 13-15 January at Parade Grounds, the event aims to promote our unique and diverse sweet treats. Building a strong rainbow of art and culture around the city, the department also has plans to focus on classical art, tribal art, folk art, theatre, cinema and literature. “Our moto is to pull in the young brigade for the same so that they can be incorporated into the cultural fabric of the city,” says Hari Krishna Mamadi, Director, Department of Culture. The year will also see an international film festival in collaboration with Goethe Zentrum, Iran Consulate and British Library.
 
 
 
 Much like the metro which took years to make its debut run, the Phase 2 of MMTS seems to be plagued with many a delays and issues. However, authorities have confirmed that 2018 will be the year when MMTS will chug along the four extended routes. “Starting from March, at least two of the four new routes to the outskirts of the city will be functional,” informed Srinivas P of Rail Vikaas Nigam. The new routes that are getting ready for opening include Tellapur to RC Puram and Secunderabad-Medchal-Bollarum. These routes will help connect the outskirts to the main city.
  There’s more. Together the four new routes, including Moula Ali- Ghatkesar and Falaknuma- Umdanagar- Shamshabad will reduce the pressure on other public transport and the road traffic by taking upto 3-5 lakh footfall, almost double from the existing 1.5 lakh. “We are just waiting for the safety sanctions and once that is done, MMTS will be ready for inauguration,” adds Somashankar Kumar, Chief Publicity Officer South Central Railways. Gee, imagine all that free space on our roads! 
 
 
 The New Year will start with two grand events that won’t stop you from looking up at the sky. January will see the mega event of International Kite Festival, ushering in the Sankranti joy. A little later in February, the skies will be graced by gorgeous lanterns at Sky lantern event to be held at the Gachibowli Stadium. Hurry up and find a good spot to view this extravaganza from!
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
