CHANDIGARH: The   and   high court has asked former Punjab DGP (prisons) Shashi Kant to explain to the court why he had not taken any police action on the basis of his report, submitted by him to the then chief minister, in which he had found the involvement of several politicians in drug peddling in the state.

 The   has also been asked to inform the date on which the then CM had requested him to furnish information while he was working in the intelligence wing of   and the date when the information was furnished by him.
 
 “The respondent (Shashi Kant) being a senior police officer, should have invoked Section 154 CrPc (registration of FIR) that information relating to commission of cognizable offence if given orally to an officer in charge of a police station or in the alternative he could have forwarded information in writing or by post to the Senior Superintendent of Police. Under what circumstances, he had furnished information to the then CM and so also under which provision of law,” ordered the HC on May 8, while asking the former DGP to respond on these points.
 
 The former DGP was to respond to the HC on May 10, but his counsel sought some more time and the matter would now come up for hearing on May 21.
 
 The order was passed by Justice P B Bajanthri while hearing an application filed by Ludhiana resident Razaudin Saifi seeking copy of the report claimed to have been submitted by Shashi Kant to the then Punjab CM.
 
 Advocate Vaibhav Sehgal, counsel appearing for the petitioner, stated that his client had approached the district court Ludhiana in 2012, seeking directions to get the copy of Shashi Kant’s report but his plea was dismissed in 2013, after which he approached the HC.
 
 The alleged report prepared by Shashi Kant on drug has been a contentious issue for past several years. The issue first surfaced when Shashi Kant had made some statements before media about handing over his special report on drug to the then CM.
 
 Earlier, one Sandeep Gupta had sought the copy of Shashi Kant’s report from the intelligence wing of the state’s police department under   Act. However, in response to that an affidavit was filed before the HC in April 2016, by a DIG rank officer of the counter-intelligence wing of Punjab police denying the existence of any such report submitted by Shashi Kant.
 
 
