Tiruvannamalai: Special grama sabha meetings organised on Republic Day in tribal village panchayats in Jawadhu Hills have turned into a farce.

 The officials attached to the local bodies neither informed the villagers about the meetings in advance nor discussed the welfare schemes in details, claimed people belonging to tribal communities in the hills. “A special grama sabha meeting held here just for the formalities. It failed to serve its purpose,” said a youth who attended a meeting at Jamunamaruthur in Jawadhu Hills block.
 
 Collector K S Kandasamy, while talking to TOI, said that he would look into the issue and take necessary action. 
 
 According to the Tamil Nadu Grama Sabha (Quorum and Procedure for convening and conducting of meetings) Rules 1998, a minimum of 10% of the voters have to participate in the special meetings held on January 26, May 1, August 15 and October 2. It insisted that the authorities should communicate to the villagers about the meetings seven days prior to ensure good participation.
 
 It is mandated to record the attendance and proceedings of Grama Sabhas in a prescribed format, besides keeping photographs of the meeting. After talking to participants of the grama sabha meetings in five of the 11 panchayats, it was found that 25 to 47 persons have only participated in the proceedings for the formalities and majority of them were NREGA and SHG members. The meeting in other panchayats were no better. 
 
 The meeting held in Jamunamarathur in Kovilur panchayat, which has a population of over 12,000, witnessed little over 110 participants. “The officials did not communicate to the villagers as per the rules. As a result, very few people attended the meeting,” said a villager at Jamunamaruthur.
 
 For years, panchayat clerks and officials in the Block Development Office rope in NREGA workers, pump operators and self-help group members for the special grama sabha meetings to show participants. “They repeated the same this year. The clerk of the panchayat office chaired the meeting and the BDOs left the meeting within 10 minutes. We really don’t know the purpose of the meeting. They just want our signature in the minutes for their record,” said 26 year-old man, who attended the meeting at Bargur village in Veerappanur panchayat.
 
 The panchayat has over 5,000 villagers, but, less than 50 participated in the meeting. “They obtained signature and thumb impression from those who participated in the meeting, without passing any resolutions,” he said.
 
 The women participants submitted petitions for individual household latrines and green house schemes and said that they had submitted petitions for the same last year, but in vain. 
 
 
