MUMBAI: The 22-odd members of the   who met at a five star hotel in South Delhi last week circulated a lengthy internal note citing ‘disappointment’ felt over the Supreme Court-appointed Committee of Administrators’ ( ) style of working and the flurry of decisions taken without the consent of the general body in the last few months.

 
 That meeting, it is learned, is only a precursor to some action these members are planning over the course of next few weeks. What they also discussed in the meeting but did not circulate through that internal note is the battleground being prepared to take on the International Cricket Council (ICC) next month.
 
 All members of the BCCI have unanimously decided that they will object to their former colleague Shashank Manohar’s re-election as independent chairman of the ICC. Nagpur-based Manohar’s term comes to an end in June 2018 and sources say he is waiting to “understand” if the right support can be garnered for the same. “Manohar will quit if he realises he doesn’t have the support,” add sources.
 
 With ICC’s revenue proposals taking an overall hit, BCCI expects most member boards of the governing body to follow suit.
 
 BCCI members, who revolted against Manohar when he decided to lead the ICC charge in chopping India’s proposed revenue and drove policy changes unacceptable to the Indian Board, say notice for a Special General Meeting (SGM) will be sent out soon.
 
 The members, led by former BCCI president N Srinivasan are rankled by the ICC’s decision to pass a draft proposal to change the format of the Champions Trophy from a 50 over tournament to T20.
 
 “That will not happen. ICC touches the tournament and all hell will break loose,” said two BCCI members in conversation with TOI.
 
 What the members are also peeved about is that despite an Indian representative attending the ICC’s Chief Executives meeting – which takes all cricket decisions and first brought up the subject of changing the tournament’s format – and the Board meeting that followed, the proposal on Champions Trophy was not brought to their attention.
 
 BCCI’s acting secretary   attended the Board meeting on February 9 in Dubai where the draft proposal was discussed and the Jharkhand-based administrator did not voice his dissent. Choudhary was empowered through a May 2017 Special General Meeting (SGM) of the BCCI to attend ICC meetings for the sole purpose of defending India’s interests at the world body.
 
 “An argument in Choudhary’s favour is he hasn’t found the right forum yet to report to the members. But the larger picture is still missing.
 
 “We will try and understand this in thorough detail as to when was this proposal first tabled and the order of events thereafter,” the members added.
 
 The recently proposed Future Tours Program (FTP) of the ICC that was approved by the member boards, including India, mentioned the Champions Trophy to be a 50-over format. “Otherwise, the FTP wouldn’t have been approved by the (BCCI) members in the first place”, says a Board member.
 
 The Champions Trophy was initiated by former and late BCCI president   and members say there is no way it will be touched or tinkered with. TOI had reported the same last week. “The reason given (to change format) is to market it better. The official ICC broadcaster is already in place, so are the sponsors and if the host board is ready to take the responsibility, where's the problem?” says BCCI.
 
