JALANDHAR: The   has ordered the Hoshiarpur revenue department to attach properties of five persons, including three local SAD leaders, booked in the Hoshiarpur land scam case. 

 The Enforcement Directorate is probing the case under the provisions of Prevention of Money Laundering Act after the vigilance bureau had named the five in the FIR.
 
 Those whose properties would be attached are SAD councillor Harpinder Singh Gill, district cooperative bank chairman Satwinderpal Singh Dhatt, Hoshiarpur market committee chairman Avtar Singh Johal and Hoshiarpur residents Parteek Gupta and Jaswinderpal Singh.
 
 The Enforcement Directorate has also asked the sub-registrar, Hoshiarpur, to provide collector rate for sale/purchase of the individual properties on February 1, 2017 (when the case was registered by the vigilance bureau .
 
 The vigilance bureau had registered the case against PCS officer and then   Anand Sagar Shama along with 12 others for undue excess payment made towards compensation paid to land owners by changing the type of land acquired from agriculture to commercial type after issuing a notification for acquisition of land for widening of the national highway between   and Hoshiarpur.
 
 Windfall gains were made by private persons by registering sale deeds in the names of local leaders, colonizers and their relatives even as notification for land acquisition had already been issued. The chunks of the agriculture land purchased by them were shown as part of residential colonies and the compensation was thus awarded several times higher than the adjoining agriculture land.
 
 While registering the case, the economic offences wing of the VB had assessed the loss to the state exchequer at Rs 58.58 crore in the form of extra payment. Sharma had allegedly played a pivotal role in the scam. The five, whose properties would be attached, were beneficiaries of the excess payment.
 
 The scam was exposed by Hoshiarpur-based RTI activist Rajiv Vashisht who had first procured information on the matter and then sent a complaint to the Prime Minister. The   had then sought a report from Punjab additional chief secretary N S Kalsi.
 
 Following intervention of the Prime Minnister's Office, then chief minister Parkash Singh Badal had ordered an inquiry into the matter. 
 
