Chennai: Can the   become an expression to your mind’s darkest corners? Yes, believe a number of young artists from across the country, who are discovering purpose and aesthetic in listening to and visually interpreting stories of people living with   conditions. 

 An upcoming art project titled Splatters Speak, for instance, has called upon those with mental health issues to get their stories body painted by a bunch of artists from around the country. It has been curated by Sanchana Krishnan, who works on initiating unabashed dialogues on mental health through art and storytelling. "Mental distress is not purely an invisible phenomenon. So much of the pain we experience, is also physical, either through self-harm and starvation or binge eating. Splatters Speak could be the space to see these mental health journeys interpreted as art," says Krishnan. "For the artists, it gives the space to spontaneously create, while allowing them to vicariously experience different perspectives. For those getting painted, it’s a cathartic experience. We’ve done this in three cities and seen people laugh and weep. They relive their experiences but aren’t alone this time," she says. In Chennai, the event will take place on March 3, at Backyard, Adyar.
 
 Delhi-based psychology student Ishita Kapoor, found her own style after surveying 13 people aged between 15 and 27, who were dealing with varying forms of mental illness. A fascinating narrative took shape and it inspired her to start painting. The result was a project that portrayed difficult realities and prejudices people with mental health issues face. "I formulated 22 questions and sent it to these people. They started with a general enquiry into the kind of mental health issues they have, how long they’ve had them. It then went on to explore more specific questions on their most challenging days," she says. "Every painting is a representation of these responses. For example, for a question on the colours associated with fear or hope there would be a painting," she adds. These culminated into eight paintings that were exhibited last year at Sanskriti School, Delhi, as part of a mental health conference. 
 
 Twenty-four year-old researcher Jhanvi (name changed), one of Kapoor’s respondents, says the exercise helped her contextualise what she was going through. "Understanding mental illness can be hard. Because unlike a physical illness, you can’t see it. But when it’s expressed through art, you’re able to visualise what the other person might be going through. I’ve been dealing with anxiety and it helped me empathise with others, and understand the commonalities in our experiences," she says.
 
 
