MADURAI: The access road connecting Madurai international airport with   has no ‘trappings’ of an airport road. While the airport is developing at a rapid pace, the state of the road fails to match its standards. The stretch has not seen any development in recent times, giving a bad impression to tourists and others who fly into the city.

 The stretch is just 1.2 km or so, but there is a complexity involved in the road development as a chunk of it comes under Madurai district administration’s control, while another portion falls under the city corporation’s purview. The airport authorities, who have control only over their premises, have ensured better maintenance and beautification within the area.
 
 The road has potholes at many places and gives a bumpy ride to airport users as well as local residents. In fact, going by the standards of other city roads, it is not a bad road at all. But it is certainly unlike an airport road, say users.
 
 “The road is very much commutable for cars, but not for two-wheelers, especially at night. Apart from airport users many local residents too use it. When it rains it turns out to be dangerous as the potholes are hard to distinguish for new users,” said L  , a driver from Avaniyapuram.
 
 Operations director of ABS Xpress, S A  , opined that the access roads to other airports in the state had beautification and attractive median as well as neon lightings. But such a feature was absent in Madurai. “The important problem I have noticed with Madurai airport road is stray cattle and poor lighting. The cattle used to sleep on the roads and would be hard to notice at nights,” he said.
 
 Due to the poor lighting at night it becomes hard to locate the potholes for the new users, drivers say. “The road leaves a bad impression of the city on tourists from India and abroad as well. Moreover, the road is used by many VIPs and elected representatives of the people. It is puzzling why such an important but short stretch is maintained shabbily,” J Balu, another driver.
 
 When contacted, Madurai district collector   said that he would work out a solution along with Madurai corporation, since a portion was owned by the civic body. He assured that the problem would be sorted out soon.
 
 
