
 The mercury has been soaring in Dehradun with day temperature touching 39 degree celsius, more than once, in the past one week. In the city, it was not usual to have air conditioners at home, even few years back. But the scorching summers in past few seasons mean that most   have installed ACs at their houses. And when it come to their pets, Doonites say that in this heat, they ensure that their pets spend the maximum time in AC rooms. Talking about the steps they take to keep their pets cool in the  , pet parents say, “Everything, right from their food and diet to their grooming, is changed in this weather.” There are various ways to make your furry friend enjoy the summer– timely walks, visits to doctor and salons. These pet parents in the city show us how.
 
 
 Kirti Shukla, a parent of four dogs and a resident of  , says, “Summers can take a toll on your furry friends and my pets – a Lab, a Cocker Spaniel, a Pitbull and a Beagle – pant a lot in this hot weather. The heat makes them anxious and uneasy. To ensure that they remain hydrated throughout the day, I feed them cold milk and curd at frequent intervals. I also make sure they drink a lot of cold water, especially in the afternoon when the temperature is at its peak. When I take them to the market, I never leave them in the car in this weather. Their walk timings are also fixed – early morning and in the evening, after the sun sets. I also give them regular baths.”
 
 
 Vrinda Dabral, a college student from  , says, “I take special care of my Himalayan Sheepdog in summer. The hot weather doesn’t suit Zohra. She bathes regularly and loves to get wet when I water the garden in the evening. The hot weather doesn’t suit Zohra. She bathes regularly and loves to get wet when I water the garden in the evening. We keep her in the AC room throughout the day and she comes out only in the evening for her routine walk. We monitor her diet very closely in summers. We keep feeding her cold milk along with her regular chicken meal.” 
 Sahil Narang, a resident of Rajendra Nagar, says, “My Lab, Gizmo, stays in the AC room throughout the day. I make a point to take him for a walk only after the sun goes down. I also give him cold water and curd to keep him cool and hydrated.”
 
 Srishti, a college student who lives near  , says, “I keep my Lab, Gabru, in the AC room for most part of the day. He goes out only in the early mornings and in the evenings. I allow him to play in the garden only in the evening when the temperature goes down. He does get restless staying indoors but I play with him inside the house to cheer him up. In addition to this, I give him chilled buttermilk or chaach.”
 
 
  Srishti feeds buttermilk to her dog Gabru
 
 
 Monika Madhwal, a resident of Banjarawala, says, “In this blazing heat, I prefer keeping my dog Rambo inside the house. For most of the day, he stays in the room, in front of the air cooler, and refuses to budge. He gets up only when we feed him. Seeing him so restless in summers, I purchased a small, portable pool this year. I keep it filled with water so that he can take a dip whenever he feels hot. I also keep feeding him cold milk, buttermilk and curd throughout the day.”
 
 
 Aman Nautiyal, owner of a trek operating company and a resident at Sewak Ashram Road, says, “I have a Rottweiler named Shera. He is thoroughly spoilt and stays in the AC for most of the day. I take him for walks only in the evening and we make sure that the AC is on when he returns from his walk. I have kept water containers in different places of our home. I feed him buttermilk twice a day to keep him cool. Since ticks are prevalent in this weather, I religiously powder him with anti-tick powder after his bath.”
 
 – Taresh Dutta
 
 
