MUMBAI: There has been a 15% dip in the overall production of food grains and 44% decline in the output of pulses in the state’s 2017-18 kharif season compared to the previous year, estimates show.

 The key reason was a long   spell and uneven rainfall between July and September. Cotton production fell by a steep 39% mainly due to pest attack by the pink bollworm, which devastated the crop across regions.
 
 
  
 
 One crop to thrive was the water-guzzling sugarcane, which saw a rise of 34% over the previous year and has contributed to a bumper nationwide production. Kharif is the main agricultural season in  , in which three-quarters of farming is done. The state’s monsoon was 84% of normal last year, but in July 2017 dipped to 72% and in August to 77% of normal. But compared to five-year averages, production of kharif food grains and pulses saw a slight increase of 9% in 2017-18.
 
 Crop credit dips 40%, pushing   towards loan sharks
 
 The decline in the production of food grains compared to 2016-17 was mainly because of a dry spell and uneven rainfall, additional chief secretary (agriculture)   has said.
 
 “In addition, the output of rice was affected by an attack of sucking pests and cotton was impacted by the pink bollworm pest,” he said. Farm activists point out that it’s not just crop production which has declined, but also the prices of farm produce.
 
 “Prices for most crops are lower than they were last year and farmers are facing larger debts. Crop loans from banks have declined by 40%, so, farmers have had no option but to turn to moneylenders,” said activist  . The production of kharif cereals declined by 4% compared to the previous year and oilseeds by 15%, estimates from the state agriculture department show.
 
 The production of rice declined by as much as 22% over the previous year. In 2016-17, the state saw a bumper production of tur dal, pushing up pulse production figures.
 
 In 2017-18, tur production in the kharif season declined by 49% and moong production by 37% compared to the previous year. Within kharif oilseeds, soya bean production dipped by 15% and groundnut by 11%. Sesamum (sesame is the best-known member of the genus) declined by 48%.
 
 In the rabi season (winter crop), cereal production saw a 30% decline in 2017-18 compared to the previous year, while the production of pulses dropped by 10%, estimates show. The state has seen a dramatic rise in sugarcane production, reaching a historic record of over 107 lakh tons.
 
 Nationally too, the country has seen a major rise in sugar production. But this has depressed prices and led to sugar mills not being able to clear farmers’ dues.
 
