JAIPUR: A 38-year-old police constable committed suicide along with his wife, son and daughter on Sunday in their house at Bagrasar village under   police station area in Nagaur. The deceased alleged that he was being harassed by an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) so he took the extreme step.

  (38) was found hanging along with his wife Santosh, daughter   (20) and son Ganpat (21). Gena Ram was posted as driver with the Nagaur police. Hours before taking the extreme step, he sent a five-page suicide note on WhatsApp to his relatives.
 
 Ram alleged that he was being harassed by an ASI and other junior rank policemen for several years. “ASI   and Gena Ram were good friends, but in 2012, ASI Kishan filed a case of theft against Ram and his family. A final report was also filed by the police in this case but Kishan kept challenging it in different courts,’ said Krishna Chandra Bunkar, SHO, Suprarliya police station.
 
 “ASI Radha Kishan had challenged the final report in the court and got the case reopened, a summon was issued to Gena Ram and his son which plunged the family into depression,” said an official.
 
 According to the police, Gena Ram claimed in his letter that he was being harassed by   and other policemen including ASI Bhanwaru   and head constable Ratan Ram. He wrote that these policemen were harassing him and his family for past six years due to which he faced transfers and humiliation. He also alleged that Khan was the investigation officer in the case and had been demanding money from him.
 
 Nagaur SP Paris Deshmukh informed TOI that an investigation had been launched against the three policemen named by Gena Ram in his suicide note.
 
 “A dySP has been asked to carry out investigation against three accused cops, we are mulling departmental action against them,” he said.
 
 Khuma Ram, father of Gena Ram, also filed a case against the three cops and claimed that his son had sent a suicide letter on WhatApp to one of their relatives that is how they learnt about the shocking incident.
 
 
