MADURAI: The Madurai bench of the   has pulled up the   district collector for failing to follow its order restraining the district administration from cutting down many fully-grown coconut trees. The court has directed the collector to appear in person before it on Friday.

 The division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and R   made the observation while hearing a petition filed by   from Neelamalaikottai village in Dindigul. “In the interest of the environment, the court restrained the officials from cutting down trees by its order,” the court said.
 
 The bench said, “If you (government) want to take action against encroachments, you have to remove borewells first from the land. Why did you touch the trees? The necessity of the appearance of the collector is important in this case. Let the collector come tomorrow (Friday) and explain before the court.”
 
 The petitioner had sought injunction to restrain officials from uprooting trees and crops grown on his land and a water body situated adjacent to his land. On January 31, the bench passed an interim order restraining the officials from cutting down the trees. 
 
 On February 2, the petitioner’s counsel informed the bench that the officials had cut down trees. The bench expressed its displeasure and stopped their action by asking the government advocate to contact them over phone and adjourned the case. 
 
 When the case came up for further hearing on Thursday, the bench was informed that the order dated January 31 was communicated to the collector’s office the very next day, during which a few trees had been cut down. The very next day (February 2) more number of trees were cut down. 
 
 The bench asked the government, “If you go to the police station with a complaint or to the government office seeking patta as an ordinary person, can you get your complaint or patta registered? The officials will give fake pattas to many people and will not consider the genuine request. To that extent, many officials are working. In the interest of the environment, the court restrained the officials from cutting down trees by its order. But, you people did not bother about it.”
 
 
