Bestselling book 
 by   does not lack praise or recognition. Since it's release in July 2017, it's been praised and now it has received the   for Fiction. The website describes the book as, "A generous book, musical in its prose and expansive in its structure and range, about growing older and the essential nature of love." Last year, Colson Whitehead’s celebrated 
 won in this category.

 The Pulitzer Prize is one of the most prestigious awards for achievements in newspaper, magazine and online journalism, literature, and musical composition in the United States. Established in 1917 by provisions in the will of the Hungarian-born American Joseph Pulitzer who had made his fortune as a newspaper publisher, it is administered by Columbia University in New York City yearly. 
 
 The prize for Drama went to 
 by Martyna Majok. The website describes it as "An honest, original work that invites audiences to examine diverse perceptions of privilege and human connection through two pairs of mismatched individuals: a former trucker and his recently paralyzed ex-wife, and an arrogant young man with cerebral palsy and his new caregiver."
 
 The prize for the history award went to
 by Jack E. Davis. This book was the winner of the 2017 Kirkus Prize for Nonfiction. The panel found it to be , "An important environmental history of the Gulf of Mexico that brings crucial attention to Earth’s 10th-largest body of water, one of the planet’s most diverse and productive marine ecosystems."
 
 The best biography was found to be 
  by  . This book is about the author of the famous 
  series. The website states it, " transformed her (Wilder) family’s story of poverty, failure and struggle into an uplifting tale of self-reliance, familial love and perseverance."
 
 The prize for poetry went to
 , by  . This well known collection even won the 2017 National Book Award for poetry and is praised for, " building on classical mythology and reinventing forms of desires that defy societal norms."
 
 These were just the literary awards, prizes are awarded in twenty-one categories. The winner receives a certificate and a $15,000 cash award.
 
