LUDHIANA:The reports that the class XII Accountancy examination paper of the   (CBSE) has allegedly been leaked on Whatsapp and social media a night before the exam, left the city students in a state of confusion. The statements from Education Minister, Delhi, Manish Sisodia, that the question paper which was been forwarded on social media matches the set 2 of the CBSE question paper, only created uncertainty amongst the students amid speculations that the examination may be cancelled. 

 However later during the day when the CBSE authorities denied the reports, most of the students were relieved. “There has been no leakage of the question paper. All the seals have been found intact at all the exam centres,” a statement from CBSE stated. The board however did mention that there was some foul play. “During process of exam, however, at local level some miscreants have tried to play mischief by circulating messages through Whatsapp and social media to disturb sanctity of examinations. CBSE has decided to take strict action against such activities. An FIR is being lodged by CBSE,” the statement read.
 
 The purported copy of the question paper had started doing the rounds on social media groups since Thursday morning, a few hours before the exam was scheduled to take place. 
 
 Most of th students TOI spoke to in city however believed that the news was false. “We have been studying day and night for the accountancy exam and hearing that the paper was leaked a night before, which was quite shocking for all of us. But personally, I feel this news is fake. No such paper was received on whatsapp,” said  , a student of class XII.
 
 Some students were concerned over the speculations over the re-examination. “Because of a mischief by some students, the entire student community should not suffer. We didn’t receive any leaked paper on Whatsapp or social media. We have been studying day and night for the exam. I just hope re-examination doesn’t take place” said Arwind Jain, Rohan’s classmate.
 
 While there were some students who were disappointed at the thought of re-examination, there were students who seemed happy over such eventuality. “Though I didn’t receive any leaked paper, I would be more than happy if re-examination takes place since I wasn’t able to complete on time and I found question paper quite difficult. It is another chance to improve my performance” said  , a student of class X.
 
 Not only were students and their parents shocked, the school authorities too were shocked and worried about the fact of re-examination. “I was so shocked to hear the news of the leaked question paper. The students have been studying so hard and hearing the news of re-examination might upset them,” said the principal of a school. 
 
 The clarification by the CBSE later during the day however laid to rest the speculations. 
 
 
