Mohali: During the resumed hearing in the   case, a local court issued non-bailable arrest warrants against the prime witness Tul Bahadur. He is the auto rickshaw driver, who was the first to see blood oozing out of the suitcase in which Aikom’s body was packed. Seerat Kaur Dhillon was allegedly transporting the suitcase to her BMW car.

 The case has been adjourned for January 17 as the case hearing could not proceed due to video conferencing of another case going on in the court.
 
 Tul Bahadur, a native of Nepal, has fled to his home country. The sources in Mohali police said they had called him up through his paternal uncle, residing in Mohali, but he refused to come back to India.
 
 Police sources said Tul Bahadur has replied that his life is under threat and has, again, started receiving threats while being in Nepal. Earlier, Tul Bahadur, had filed a complaint to SSP Mohali alleging that he has been receiving threats for being a witness in the case.
 
 The efforts of Mohali police to get him back, for recording his statement, has gone down the drain. Sources in the police department said without taking any permission, a team of Mohali police had even tried to get him back to India. However, they had to face resistance at Nepal and returned empty handed. Sources also said they faced a tough time during their visit to Nepal and faced threats for approaching a person in a foreign nation without coming through a proper channel.
 
 “When his uncle called up Tul Bahadur, he replied that he is at home in Nepal and will come back when he would feel like,” said sources in police.
 
 Senior superintended of police (SSP) Kuldeep Singh Chahal said, “Court has issued a non-bailable warrant against him. We are making efforts to get Tul Bahadur back from Nepal. Soon, he will record his statement with court.”
 
 Tul Bahadur is the auto rickshaw driver, whom Seerat called for helping her in loading a suitcase in BMW car. The suitcase reportedly had the body of Aikom Singh Dhillon, who she had allegedly murdered.
 
 Tul Bahadur noticed blood oozing out of the suitcase. Smelling something foul, he called up police while Seerat fled from the spot leaving the suitcase inside the BMW car. Police, based on the information given by Tul Bahadur, opened the suitcase to find Aikom Singh Dhillon body inside. Later, police arrested Seerat, charged her with the murder of Aikom Singh Dhillon and the case is currently under trial in a Mohali court.
 
 BMW biting dust at police station
 
 The BMW car, in which Seerat Kaur Dhillon accused of allegedly transporting the body of her husband Aikom Singh Dhillon packed in a suitcase, has gone under green cover of wild growth. The car, which is a case property now, is parked at Mataur police station in Mohali.
 
 Sources in the police department said the court has yet not ordered them to produce of the car.
 
 The sources in Mohali police said the tyres of the car have deflated and the condition of the case property is under green cover at police station. They said they have not touched the car and will only remove the wild growth when it will be readied for producing in the court for identification.
 
 
