AHMEDABAD: It is not uncommon for more than one member of a Jain family to take diksha, but on Wednesday, all members of two families — one from Surat and another from Mumbai — will embrace ascetic life. A major event has been organized at the   area of Ahmedabad at which nine diksha ceremonies will be held under the aegis of Acharya Muktivallabhsuri.

 
  
 
  The family from Surat consists of Sanjay Shah, 53; his wife Neeta, 49; their daughter Pooja, 26; and their son Darshil, 24. While Sanjay Shah is associated with diamond trading, Pooja is a practising company secretary and   has appeared for the final examination of chartered accountancy. Pooja and Darshil have had a stellar academic record. The family belongs to   in  .
 
  
  “Darshil’s best friend had taken diskha about two years ago,” said Sanjay Shah as the family participated in the chovihar organized for them at Sabarmati on eve of the event. “Darshil wanted to follow that path. We tried to tell him that it would be a tough life but he had made up his mind,” Shah said. “To test his resolve, he even shunned electronic equipment, including mobile phone, and led a simple life.” Shah said Darshil used to attend religious discourses and shared their insights with his sister. “She also decided to join him. When both our children made up their minds, they inspired us to seek enlightenment,” Shah said.
 
 Pooja said that the discourses raised fundamental questions such as for whom humans live and why they run round the clock. “It became clear that materialistic life does not give happiness after a point,” she said.
 
 For   and his family — consisting of his wife Ketu, 41, and daughter Maitri, 18 — the decision was easier. Shah, 42, is associated with textile trade in Mumbai. The couple’s elder son   became a monk four years ago and has been known as Purnakalashvijaysuri. When Maitri decided to become a Jain nun, the parents followed suit.
 
 “I had started winding up my business about two years ago in anticipation of this moment. It was our wish to take diksha under Acharya Muktivallabhsuri and we are happy that our wish has been fulfilled,” said Dharmesh Shah. “It is a matter of great pride that we all are on the path of enlightenment now.”
 
 Acharya Muktivallabhsuri said that the families had approached him some time ago and he gave his consent after realizing their fervour.
 
 
