NEW DELHI: The Delhi   on Tuesday said it would “not tolerate exclusion” of any   from accessing   and directed the Centre, Delhi government and local bodies to be   to the needs of persons with  .

 The observations by a bench of Acting Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice C Hari Shankar came during the hearing of a PIL that claimed that most public facilities in the national capital were not disabled friendly.
 
 “Does Tihar have any disabled friendly toilets,” the court wondered. It also directed Delhi Police to make its stations disabled friendly, not just for complainants, but also for the accused.
 
 “We cannot tolerate any   on any account. No exclusion at all on the basis of caste, colour, creed or any other criteria,” the bench remarked, stressing that even juvenile home, observation home for the aged and other such establishments must be disabled friendly.
 
 HC termed as “unacceptable” the lack of access to public parks by the disabled and aged persons due to the narrow entry points. The bench said it wanted the concerned agencies to immediately act and rectify these lapses.
 
 The corporations were also asked to take up one or more areas in their jurisdiction as pilot projects to make them completely disabled friendly. While issuing the directions, the court highlighted “a complete lack of sensitisation” of government officials on issues affecting persons with disabilities. It further ordered that architectural and engineering divisions of all authorities must meet to plan a training module to sensitise their officials on issues affecting disabled persons.
 
 The court directed that the training module and the manner and timeline in which it would be implemented should be placed before the bench on the next date of hearing on March 21. “The steps be undertaken sincerely, diligently and on a war-footing,” the bench observed.
 
 The authorities were directed to carry out a disability audit of buildings or parks under their control and ownership, in order to identify which of them are entirely disabled friendly. The court asked authorities to identify the shortcomings and come with an action plan, including a timeline, to rectify the deficiencies.
 
 Only the Delhi Cantonment Board (DCB) had complied with its January 10 order to carry out the audit, identify the deficiencies and carry out the rectifications, the court observed, as it asked the chief engineer of Delhi Development Authority (DDA) and the additional deputy commissioner of South Delhi Municipal Corporation to appear on the next date with their audit report and other details.
 
 The court is hearing a PIL by Nipun Malhotra, seeking directions to make the capital’s roads, government offices and public transport friendly for disabled people.
 
 
