Kolhapur: District primary education officer, Subhash Chougule has said that all eligible schools in the district have to register online for the 25% admission quota process under Right to Education (RTE).

 The registration of the eligible schools began from January 15 and it will conclude on Monday.
 
 Chougule said, “Under the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education (RTE) Act, 2009, it is mandatory for private schools to reserve 25% of their seats for children from underprivileged sections of society. The schools will also have to make sure that information related to the admission process is advertised accordingly.”
 
 The education department has been asked to take action against schools that refrain from registering for the admission process. Such schools risk the chance of losing their recognition.
 
 Chougule said, “School registrations will conclude on January 20. However, an extension of two more days has been granted for schools that are yet to register. Parents can fill in the online application to admit their wards from January 24 to February 12. The first lotteries will be drawn on February 14 and 15. The admission process will be conducted from February 16 to March 1.”
 
 He added that those parents, who won’t be able to apply for the first lottery round, will be able to apply for the second round from February 16 to March 3.
 
 The number of vacant seats after the first round will be announced from March 3 to March 6. The second lottery will be announced from March 7 to March 8.
 
 Parents will have to confirm their ward’s admission between March 9 and March 21. The admission process will conclude on April 10, after the third lottery round ends. The district education department has been asked to conduct more rounds, if necessary.
 
 Chougule said that parents who are living on rent can produce their ward’s birth certificate and rent agreement in order to finalise their ward’s admission.
 
 He added, “Schools cannot reject admissions based on small mistakes like spelling errors for the name of students. Schools also cannot reject applications stating discrepancy in income certificates produced by the students. Block education officer will have to cross-check all income certificates with the tehsildar. If any fraud is found, the admission must be cancelled immediately and action must be initiated according to law.”
 
 The officer said that this year the admission age for students has been fixed at 5.8 years. Any student falling short of the age will not be granted admission.
 
 
