PUNE: A holiday court on Sunday ordered the remand of a suspect arrested in the   triple murder case in police custody till March 6.

 The bodies of two men who are yet to be identified and 15-year-old Naved  , a resident of Nade Lane in Ganesh Peth, were found afloat in the   nullah on Friday.
 
 On Saturday, the Faraskhana police had detained two men, both addicted to whitener and turpentine, on the suspicion of their involvement in these murders. While the motive behind the killings is still to be established, police formally arrested one of the men, Vikram alias Vicky Deepaksingh Pardeshi (34), on the basis of an eye-witness account and other evidence collected from the scene of the crime, including blood-stained stones, a tile, bamboo sticks and an iron pipe, suspected to have been used for killing the victims.
 
 In a remand report submitted to the court, police stated that during his questioning, Vicky admitted to have committed these murders. His medical examination revealed seven minor injury marks besides a few scratch marks. These have been certified by the doctors as having been caused by a hard and blunt object, the report stated.
 
 On Sunday, Faraskhana inspector (crime)   and his team produced Vicky before a special judicial magistrate first class and public prosecutor   submitted the remand report praying for a 14-day custodial remand of the accused. Lawyers Tosif Shaikh and B A   opposed the remand plea on behalf of the accused.
 
 Bendbhar submitted that the police wanted Vicky’s custodial interrogation for establishing the identity of the other two men killed besides the motive. The police also needed to establish the identity of the other persons who were involved in the murders and are on the run. Blood samples of the accused were required for evidence and police also need to find out if the accused were helped by any other person in running away from the scene.
 
 Defence lawyers Shaikh and Aloor argued that the accused has been arrested merely on the suspicion as he was acquainted with the deceased. However, the accused neither had any motive nor intention to kill the victims and merely because he was last seen with the deceased does not prove that he had committed the murders.
 
