NEW DELHI: The Centre’s “adopt a heritage” scheme may have come under fire from the opposition, including Trinamool Congress ( ), but the government claims TMC’s Rajya Sabha MP, Derek O’Brien headed 31-member parliamentary standing committee had endorsed the policy of seeking corporate assistance for the maintenance of heritage structures. 

 
 “The committee notes that the initiative of   is a welcome step on part of the ministry of tourism,” the parliamentary standing committee on transport, tourism and culture, chaired by Derek O’Brien, had said on March 6, in its report on the demand for grants by the tourism ministry for 2018-19. The committee had said it its report, “Major corporates may be compelled to adopt heritage sites.”
 
 Soon after the news broke that   has signed an MoU to ‘adopt’ the Red Fort, Derek had questioned the move through a tweet: “Wah! So here is acche din. Red Fort being ‘sold’? Now other national treasures ready to be auctioned to highest bidder. As chairman parliament committee of transport, tourism & culture, can say matter was still being discussed. Pledge to stop this.”
 
 After details of the panel’s report emerged, Union minister and   leader from West Bengal, Babul Supriyo, took a dig at Derek as he tweeted on Monday: “Derek O’Brien is the chairman of the 31 MP Parliamentary Standing Committee that looks into tourism and heritage etc. Have a look at what they had recommended two months back. Now Derek cries foul because he has no option left after his ‘Netri’ Mamata Di chose to lambast the Centre for it.”
 
 When asked about the issue, Ritabrata Banerjee (erstwhile   and now independent MP from Rajya Sabha) who has been a member of the committee told TOI, “Let the government publish the MoU with Dalmia Cement and the cat will be out of the bag.” He elaborated saying, “The concept was explained to the committee as improving public amenities like toilets and drinking water and certainly not a lease of the entire property.”
 
 Another member of the panel said, “They (Govt) are trying to fire this from the shoulders of the committee. That will get exposed.” 
 
 “The committee also recommends that the detailed plans for improvement of infrastructure and basic amenities have to be laid down by the ministry/govt agencies and it (sic) should not be left (to) the discretion of the organisation(s) which are adopting the heritage sites. Experience and experimentation in the initial two or three projects will make all the difference in planning for other future projects that the ministry will take up for development,” the committee had also said in its report. 
 
 Derek’s tweet followed his party boss and West Bengal CM   lashing out at the Centre for the decision. “Why can’t the government even take care of our historic Lal Qila? Red Fort is a symbol of our nation. It is where India’s flag is hoisted on Independence Day. Why should it be leased out ? Sad and dark day in our history” she had tweeted. 
 
 Dalmia Group had signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the ministry of tourism to adopt the iconic monument for the next five years at a cost of Rs 25 crore. 
 
 As per the agreement, the corporate giant would build basic infrastructure around the monument and maintain it.
 
 
