GHAZIABAD: A 17-year-old physically challenged girl has alleged gang   by an   and his   on Wednesday. The girl said she had boarded a shared auto from Old Bus Stand in Ghaziabad around 11pm while returning from a factory where she works.

 According to the girl, who is from Amethi in UP, the auto driver and his accomplice took her to the rented accommodation of a friend, Ravi, in Garima Garden of Sahibabad instead of dropping her home where they took turns to rape her. 
 
 Ravi, a   who had been allegedly asked by the auto driver and his accomplice to take a stroll outside, has been  .
 
 “I don’t know any of the men. The auto driver asked me to board the vehicle while I was waiting for public transport to return home. He told me he is a clean person and I could safely board his auto. He asked me to wait till he picked up more passengers. He took me through several lanes and by-anes. On the way, he called up a friend on his mobile phone. He took me to a room. I called up the   control room after the incident. The auto driver and his friend fled immediately,” the girl said in her complaint.
 
 An FIR under has been registered under IPC sections 376D (gang rape) and relevant sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012 on the basis of the complaint filed by the girl. A medical examination was conducted on the girl on Thursday and its reports are awaited.
 
  “The auto driver and his friend had used Ravi’s rented accommodation for committing the crime after asking him to move out for around half-an-hour. The auto driver had picked up his friend en route Garima Garden from Old Bus Stand. During investigations, Ravi told us that he knows the auto driver only by the name Pandit. He is absconding,” said Rakesh Singh, the SHO of Sahibabad police station.
 
 “Pandit’s sister lives in Garima Garden too. We expect to get more details after questioning her. We will ask the girl to furnish documents pertaining to her date of birth in order to ascertain her exact age,” said Singh.
 
 
 
