AHMEDABAD: The number of students from minority groups to be awarded scholarships under various schemes in Gujarat has halved since 2014. According to figures from the Union ministry of minority affairs, the number of beneficiaries of the Pre-Matric Scholarship Scheme, Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme and Merit-cum-Means Scholarship Scheme have been falling drastically from the 2014-15 financial year.

 
  
 
 In 2014-15, pre-matric scholarships were awarded to 3,53,933 beneficiaries. This number fell to 1,07,857 in 2017-18. 
 
 Similarly, post-matric scholarships was awarded to 40,574 beneficiaries in 2014-15. The number awarded in 2017-18 was just 18,407. 
 
 The decrease was not drastic in the merit-cum means scholarship in Gujarat, but it has also fallen to 3,098 in 2017-18 from 4,821 in 2014-15.
 
 The Union ministry of minority affairs implements these three scholarship schemes for educational empowerment of six notified minority communities — Muslims, Christians, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains and Parsis — across the country. The state government is responsible for identifying beneficiaries and disbursing the money to them.
 
 Ishwar Parmar, Gujarat’s social justice and empowerment minister, confirmed the decrease in number of minority scholarships awarded. Parmar claimed, “We tried to reach out to beneficiaries but somehow the benefits of these schemes could not reach those living in the rural parts of the state. We will definitely make sure we reach each and every potential candidate.”
 
 Congress spokesperson Manish Doshi said these figures reflect the attitude of the BJP-ruled government towards minorities. 
 
 “The slogans of the BJP government, like ‘Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas’ and ‘Education For All’ seem to be present only on paper. The government is apathetic to minorities and other downtrodden communities like scheduled castes, scheduled tribes and other backward classes,” said Doshi.
 
 Shamshad Pathan, the convener of the minority forum  , said that these numbers have been halved intentionally by the BJP governments in the state and Centre. 
 
 “In the past, the Gujarat government dragged the issue of pre-matric scholarships through the high court and the  . It only started providing these scholarships after the apex court’s verdict,” Pathan said.
 
 
