 located on the hillock of the same name is a splendid scenic landscape for trekkers and adventure enthusiasts who wish to explore hidden locales that are off the beaten track. The dense forests of Valtai plateau are known to be home of elephants and bison.

 The plateau contains an ancient ‘char’ or a long narrow trench. Villagers believe hundreds of years ago Chhatrapati   built the trench to restrict elephants and avoid man-animal conflicts.
 
 The plateau also has plenty of laterite rock formations. A huge laterite rock stands precariously on the edge of a steep slope. The villagers believe this rock to be a local goddesses.
 
 How to get there:
 
 Valtai plateau is located near   village in   taluka. It is 35km away from the city. It can be reached within an hour by car. As it is located inside extremely forested areas, one has to trek through the jungle for nearly 8 km to reach the plateau. It is highly advisable to have a guide or a local villager along for the trek.
 
 Legend has it:
 
 It is said Valtai goddess has taken the form of the huge Laterite rock. It is a place of worship for villagers in Gagan Bawda taluka. It is visited by surrounding villagers on Tuesday and Friday.
 
 Dr.  , a social activist said: “The trench is also called ‘char.’ It is completely built with black stones. The man-made structure is still intact even after hundreds of years. Its endurance speaks of the great vision of Shahu Maharaj of restricting elephants to forested areas. Keeping them away from villages and becoming a threat to humans.”
 
 Patil added: “Valtai goddess is a huge rock balanced on the very edge of a steep slope. At first glance it looks like the rock may start rolling down the slope at anytime. The place is a great trekking spot for adventure enthusiasts. It needs to be brought into the limelight and developed sustainably by the government.”
 
 Flora and Fauna:
 
 Famous among environmentalists as a precious ecological hotspot, Valtai hosts numerous rare species of flora and fauna.   a member of the NGO Green guards said, “Valtai has a great number of butterflies, frogs, reptiles in the habitat. World’s biggest bean plant ‘sea heart bean’ can also be found in the forests along with many wild species of flowers.”
 
 He added: “If one is lucky they can also spot wild boars, antelope deer and bison here. Enthusiastic trekkers and environmentalists keep visiting the place to photograph hornbill, yellow-browed bulbul, crimson-backed sunbird, peacocks, paradise flycatcher and many more beautiful birds.”
 
 
