Kasauli: Barely three weeks back, the town and country planning (TCP) department had opened a small office just outside of Kasauli and Sahil Bala Sharma was sent as nodal officer here to try and clean up the mess that had surfaced in the National Green Tribunal (NGT) and then in the Supreme Court with hotels here being fined and told to demolish the illegal parts.

 On Tuesday, there was a posse of cops from Quick Response Team (QRT) there, only they were focusing on the adjacent hotel. By the time they realized that owner of Narayani Guest House, Vijay Singh, had pumped bullets into assistant town and country planner (ATCP) Sahil Bala Sharma leading a demolition team, he had already taken shelter in the quaint hills surrounding the place.
 
 The murder rocked whole of Himachal and the echo was heard in the Supreme Court in Delhi. The local resident of cantonment town were too shocked to speak but were unanimous in laying blame at the door of the same department of which the victim was a representative. For money and vote bank, successive governments allowed illegal construction, they say.
 
 On Wednesday, owner of Hotel Pine View Devender Bhandari was busy demolishing a part of his hotel. His is one of the 13 hotels facing immediate action though 72 hotels here had received NGT notices and their side is still being heard by the tribunal.
 
 “She (Shail Bala) was a very gentle woman. Even Vijay was a very mild-mannered and down to earth person. None imagined he would do something like this,” says Bhandari. “You must understand how corned he must have felt that day,” he adds and then starts explaining how he built his own hotel brick-by-brick over 50 years, for 38 of which he was also working as a teacher in Chandigarh, some 60 km away.
 
 “Why were we allowed to build? The government should have been more stern with us. I would not be have been forced to break it down. It feels like killing our own child,” he says of his hotel Pine View.
 
 After his arrest, Singh had told police that Shail Bala had spurned his offer of bribe. Most other hoteliers here had dealt with her and agree that the ATCP was an empathetic officer and genuinely wanted to help them. However, they are not long in pointing out that not all officers were fair or incorruptible.
 
 Almost touching upon Narayani Guest House is Hotel Shivalik, whose owner Ved Garg. The relation between Garg and Singh were not exactly cordial. There is a history of legal tussles over shared compound and parking area. “Vijay roamed around on a cycle for years and lately on a scooter. We were not friends but this is quite unimaginable,” Garg says. Then, he, too, starts with a tale of political and bureaucratic machinery that worked to wink at things like addition of a few extra rooms and tin sheds.
 
 Both Bhandari and Garg are well aware of the public perception prevailing at the moment and are thus unwilling to be categorized as hoteliers. “We are only small-time local businessmen,” they say.
 
 Interestingly, it is mostly the smaller, older hotels that are facing action because they were built up by the local residents gradually.
 
 Owner of plush-looking two-year-old Kasauli Continental Resort Muminder Singh says they are not facing any action as they built the structure following all norms. He too, however, puts the blames largely on the successive state governments for the way things have come to a head now. 
 
 Some of the other residents also blamed the Society for Preservation of Kasauli and its Environs (SPOKE), which has mostly retired Army and even some judiciary officials. The SPOKE had moved NGT against construction of a hotel by the state tourism department, which eventually led to opening of the Pandora’s Box. It was on their initiative to save Kasauli’s hills that construction was banned here thrice. First time in 1993, then in 2005, and again in 2017.
 
 Speaking on the condition of anonymity, an officer-bearer of SPOKE told TOI, “The blame of the tragic incident lies at the door of the government. We only opposed setting of one huge hotel complex at the top of the town, whatever followed was never intended. Had the government officials performed their duty over the years, the situation would have been far different today.”
 
 What TCP director speak
 
 When asked why illegal structures were allowed to come up, TCP department director Rajeshwer Goyal says, “It happened over the years. I cannot comment on it in detail as I took charge only three months back.” He goes on point out problems like shortage of staff for enforcing the norms. “We can, of course, disown it all but there have been various factors like retention policies,” Goyal adds.
 
 Last year, district town planner Leela Shyam had told TOI that out of 8,782 applications filed under the policy across the state, barely 120 were from Kasauli area. Then executive engineer of the HP Pollution Control Board S K Shandil had added that of the 72 hotels issued notices by NGT, around 10% were for violations of pollution norms.
 
 The policy promised carta blanca to all who approached government with details of their illegal constructions and pay nominal fee to get it regularized. It was brought in by the previous Congress government in the run-up to the state assembly elections and later rejected by the Himachal Pradesh high court. While it was first time a retention policy was introduced for whole of Himachal, encroaches in state capital Shimla have got such got kid-glove treatment on multiple occasions, raising hopes of people elsewhere in HP. 
 
 Why has the issue grown so big?
 
 — Kasauli planning area has a population of less than 7,000
 
 — It has more than 70 hotels
 
 — In 2009, 5,000 visitors arrived in Kasauli every day in peak tourist season and there were around 350 rooms available
 
 — The number of rooms has grown close to 1,500 in nine years and the economy of the area depends on tourism
 
 — At state-level, tourism sector contributes roughly 7% to the Himachal GDP. For most other states the figure never crosses 4%
 
 — In 2015, Himachal recorded 1.5 crore domestic tourist visits and 5 lakh domestic tourism visits in 2013. The population of the state is around 70 lakh
 
 
