KOLKATA: Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) had recently spotted several leaks while probing the enteric outbreak on southern and eastern fringes of the city. And now, it has been found that most of the leaks resulted from illegal water connections that run parallel to the existing draining system.

 After interacting with a section of residents of the disease zone, civic officials came to know that a section of promoters engage plumbers late at night to tap water for their buildings from KMC water pipelines, putting the lives of thousands at risk. These unscrupulous breed of promoters usually thrives in areas where illegal construction is mushrooming, said an official of the KMC water supply department.
 
  
  
 According to civic rules, a real estate developer or an owner of a house can apply for a water connection after receiving a completion from the civic body. “However, in cases of illegal constructions, the promoter has no option but to draw water illegally. This practice is disastrous as as promoters, out of desperation, do not follow rules for water connections. What makes the matter worse is the fact that in most such cases, promoters engage plumbers who have no or limited knowledge of city’s underground utilities. These plumbers lay a water line close to a sewerage line, thereby inviting trouble,” the KMC official explained. 
 
 Civic officials pleaded helplessness as a section of councillors, according to them, are in connivance with the promoters to thwart any attempt by the KMC to dismantle these unauthorized connections. “Often we feel helpless and have to give in as we fail to raise our voices against a section of councillors who are hand in glove with the promoters,” a KMC official claimed.
 
 Of the three places where a KMC team found illegal connections are Mukundapur, Santoshpur and Garfa — worst affected areas in the recent enteric outbreak.
 
  “We were surprised to find that water supply and drainage lines are parallel to each other. We have identified the spots and sent our report to the civic authorities,” said a member of the team.
 
 KMC sources, however, maintained that these illegal connections were first noticed in prime central and south Kolkata localities. “We were alerted when we got to know about an outbreak of an enteric disease from Elliot Road, Rawdon Street and Park Street, among other areas, in January. An investigation revealed that water lines laid illegally got breached and led to an outbreak. We repaired these leaks and managed the situation somehow. Similarly, we detected several such illegal lines in   and   areas and averted a probable outbreak of  ,” another official said. The KMC water supply brass have already taken up the matter with the mayor, requesting his intervention.
 
 
