RAJKOT: Hours after chief minister   directed   into the  , the agency sleuths visited the   on Thursday evening. 

 Deputy inspector general (DIG), CID crime, Dipankar Trivedi, did not rule out foul play in the incident. He, however, refused to comment about the investigation.
 
 Addressing media persons in Gondal, Trivedi said, “It’s very premature to comment about the investigation line. Huge plumes of smoke are still billowing because of which it’s not possible for the forensic experts to examine the crime spot and take samples for investigation.” 
 
 Explaining the uncontrolled fire, he said, “Around 50% to 60% component in groundnut is oil and that’s why it’s very difficult to douse the fire completely. The fire brigade’s priority is to stop the spread of blaze.”
 
 CID has formed a special investigation team (SIT) that includes one deputy superintendent of police (DSP) of Rajkot police too. The rural police, CID, collector office, fire department and Paschim Gujarat Vij Company Ltd have joined the investigation. 
 
 Trivedi also said an FIR will be filed only if any criminality is established. For now, only an application has been submitted to the Gondal police by Nafed, the agency responsible for procuring groundnut at minimum support price (MSP). 
 
 The warehouse was hired by Gujarat State Co-operative Cotton Federation Limited, which was mandated by National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Limited (Nafed) for procurement. 
 
 Even as the DIG held a press conference, several questions remain unanswered. Was the electricity connection in the warehouse illegal or legal? Was any suspicious activity being done behind the warehouse. Were the rules prescribed by Gujarat State Warehousing Corporation and Nafed to stock the groundnut were followed properly?
 
 Rajkot collector Dr Vikrant Pandey, who was also present in the press conference, said, “We are investigating all the aspects and searching oil mills near Gondal after suspicion was raised that groundnut might have been removed before fire and supplied to the mills.”
 
 Nearly 7,000 tonne groundnut worth over Rs 31.5 crore was destroyed after a massive fire engulfed the warehouse in Umvada village of Gondal on Tuesday afternoon. The warehouse was rented by the NAFED to store groundnut that it had procured from farmers at minimum support price (MSP) of Rs 900 per 20kg.
 
 
