Responding to a PIL, the   on Wednesday said that the prices of food and water bottles sold inside movie theatres are exorbitant, and if multiplexes are prohibiting people from bringing outside food, then vendors should not be allowed to sell food inside the multiplexes either. Responding to this, the Maharashtra government said that it will soon frame a policy on the issue. 
 While   in the city feel that it is about time that someone put a check on the exorbitant prices, multiplexes say that decreasing the price of food items or allowing outside food is not possible as it would hamper their business, which is already suffering losses. Delhiites say that they find it bizarre to drop empty tiffin boxes and fruits at the checking counters, but exhibitors add that allowing outside food items also has hygiene issues.
 
  
  
 
 
 Theatre owners say that in their business, the money doesn’t come from selling tickets, but from food and beverages, and the intervals are designed to accommodate the F&B business. Exhibitors say that the profit they earn mainly comes from F&B sales, since they get only 25% of the profit from ticket sales.
 A cinema owner asks, “Where’s the money? After deals with distributors, production houses, taxes and maintenance, at the end of it, we are not left with any profit. The major chunk of our annual profit comes from F&B sales, not from selling tickets.”
 
  
  
 Yogesh Raizada, corporate head,  , tells us, “Food items in cinemas are not expensive. We don’t charge only for the food, we also charge for the service that we provide. However, if we stop selling F&B or start allowing outside food, it would be a huge loss for cinema halls, much more than any film flopping.”
 
  
  
 Dina Mukherjee, CMO, Carnival Cinemas, adds, “It might lead to a domino effect of increased rates of tickets and associated activities inside the cinema. F&B contributes approximately 25-30% to the overall pie of cinema revenue. The pricing of F&B is different due to the service and ambience being provided in the cinema. Currently, only 1% of the overall population visits cinema halls throughout the year. Ticket prices are already steep, and if F&B rates inside cinemas are brought down, the overall affordability of movie tickets might reduce, leading to a degrowth in the number of footfalls in the cinemas. The impact of the ruling will be on cinemas in Maharashtra, not necessarily for other states/cities.” 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 A cinema owner says, “There are too many concerns which need to be addressed. Ab agar humne bahar ka khana allow kar diya toh kal ko log cinema hall mein baith kar apne tiffin box se daal-chawal khaenge. Parantha subzi lana allow kar de? Koi vada-sambhar lekar aa gaya aur usne sambhar seat pe gira diya toh? We can’t allow outside food for many reasons. It is ensured that the food being sold inside the theatre doesn’t have a strong aroma and isn’t greasy or with gravy. Now, imagine hundreds of moviegoers, hour after hour, sitting inside that closed theatre eating all sorts of food. What will happen to the operations? Tinku Singh, Group President,  , raises another issue. “We don’t allow outside food inside cinema halls because apart from the business loss, there is a hygiene factor also. If someone brings in street food and falls ill, who’d take responsibility? A person is inside the cinema hall for at least three hours, which is a long duration, so we can’t compromise on health.”
 
  
  
 
 
 Moviegoers say that apart from paying so much for food, depositing their tiffin boxes and water bottles is quite frustrating.
 Vidushi Sinha, who works in an IT firm in  , says, “If I am going for a movie after office, I will have a tiffin box with me. And whether it is empty or has leftovers, the guards make you leave it outside before entering the theatre.”
 
  
  (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam, Picture for representational purposes)
 
 Udeesha Singh, a government official, says, “I usually prefer not going to a cinema hall when I have food or fruits with me. Whether you are on a fast or you are not well and just want to carry a fruit with you, it is not allowed. Also, sometimes it’s really frustrating when they ask you to deposit your bottles at the counter. What’s wrong with allowing a water bottle just because it wasn’t bought from inside the multiplex?”
 
  
  
 Shubham Pandey, a college student, says, “What’s the justification for selling food and beverages at such overpriced rates? From coffee to cold drinks, everything is so overpriced. And every time you go for a movie, the food prices seem to have increased. Till last year, the pizza at the cinema hall food counter used to be for `200-250, now it’s `400. Itni jaldi toh kahin prices nahi badhte! Whether outside food is allowed or not, I think these prices should be regulated.”
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
