SONIPAT: An assistant professor of English was shot dead by a 19-year-old student in a college at Peepli in Haryana’s   district on Tuesday morning.

 The murder comes less than two months after an 18-year-old student killed his school principal with his father’s licensed pistol in Haryana’s   town.
 
 
 The professor, identified as   (45), was murdered by second year arts student   Kumar in staffroom of the Shaheed Dalbir Singh Rajkiya Mahavidyalaya at 10 am. The teenager, who too had stolen his father’s licensed pistol, shot the professor four times, killing him on the spot. He managed to flee and is yet to be arrested.
 
  police did not officially disclosed any motive for the murder, but the accused had been told off by Malik for close interactions with a female student. “On Monday, Malik had caught them together at the last bench of the class. An argument had ensued after which the professor had asked them not to attend classes. He had also warned them that he would suspend and rusticate them,” according to a source.
 
 
 Cops raid houses of student’s friends
 
 Malik, who was from   village, lived in Sonipat’s Sector 23 with his family. He also practiced as an advocate in the district courts. He had been employed as an assistant professor of English at the college for last one year.
 
 A police officer said Jagmal had stolen his father’s licensed pistol on Monday and carried it with him the next day. Incidentally, Malik’s 17-year-old daughter had also come to the college to meet her father for some work. Jagmal entered the staffroom and confronted Malik. Apart from Malik and his daughter, a clerk was present in the staffroom.
 
 Before Malik’s daughter could intervene, Jagmal shot him from near point blank range on his head and chest. He did not hurt anyone else in the staffroom and fled the college after threatening other students and staffers.
 
 Malik was rushed to a local hospital after his daughter raised an alarm and was declared brought dead.
 
 His body has been sent for a post-mortem and the scene of crime was inspected by forensic experts and crime team on Tuesday afternoon.
 
 Confirming that it was a murder, Sonipat SSP Satender Gupta, told TOI, “We have formed teams to arrest the student. A case has been registered.” Wazeer Redu, the investigating officer of the case, said raids were being conducted at the houses of Jagmal’s friends and acquaintances in and around Rohna village.
 
 Malik’s daughter and the clerk are the only witnesses in the case. Cops are scanning the college’s CCTV footage to establish the sequence of events. The student’s father is also being questioned.
 
