MADURAI: A 42-year-old woman from Madurai district was killed after being struck by   on Tuesday evening. The incident came to light late in the city when her relatives launched search of her as she did not return home for long.

 Based on a complaint a case was registered with Melavalavu police station and an inquiry was carried out. The deceased was identified as A  , 48, from   in Madurai district.
 
 She was found dead at an agricultural land near Ettimangalam near Melavalavu. The incident took place at her relatives’ house in Ettimangalam where she has been staying for some days, the police said. The lightning struck when she ventured out in the rain to answer the nature’s call.
 
 As she did not return for long, the relatives initially though that she would have found a shelter from rain lashing the area. However, they grew suspicious as she did not come back even after the rain stopped. They carried out a search and found to their horror her body lying inanimate on an agricultural land.
 
 The body was shifted to a nearby government hospital and an inquiry was carried out. A case was registered with the section crpc- 174 –suspicious death.
 
 Many pockets of the district received copious rain on Tuesday evening, upsetting free traffic movements and uprooting trees. The rain started with moderate wind and heavy lightning and thunder before lashing the city in full force. . Madurai received another day of thundershowers on Wednesday, with district getting a total rainfall of 822 mm on Tuesday night.
 
 The city and suburbs were inundated with rainwater.   in the district recorded the highest rainfall with 123 mm, bringing along with miseries. Roads were inundated and vehicles met with with minor accidents as the potholes on the roads, were filled with rainwater, making it difficult for motorists to travel 
 
 Thunder and lightning were so intense that people were seen running into buildings for shelter as it was not safe for them to stand under trees or temporary shelters. 
 
  Among the regions that received rain are Chittampatti recoreded 101 mm , Kallandri 57 mm, Thaniamangalam 35 mm, Melur 90 mm, Sathair 86 mm, Madurai south20.10 mm,   85.20 mm,   65 mm.
 
 
