GURUGRAM: The Asian Waterbird Census (AWC) recorded 67 species of water birds in   National Park and the   wetland, in the first week of March, even as winter migratory water birds start flying back due to rising temperature. The birders reported 46 species and 3,825 birds at Sultanpur, and 21 species and 1,081 birds at the Basai wetland.

 At Sultanpur, out of 46 species, 20 are resident ones, while the rest 26 are winter migratory water birds, including Indian species. Eight of the species are listed in the   (IUCN) Red List for threatened birds.
 
 At Basai, the nine migratory species that were spotted included bar-headed geese, ruddy shelduck, Eurasian coot and western marsh harrier were spotted, while the 12 resident species included spot-billed duck, black-winged stilt, purple swamphen, common moorhen, little grebe and little egret, among others.
 
 The seven-member birder team that conducted the census also reported two IUCN threatened species at Basai wetland — painted stork and black-headed ibis. Some IUCN threatened species that were spotted at Sultanpur included the painted stork, oriental darter, black-headed ibis, black-necked stork, sarus crane, common pochard, ferruginous duck and river tern.
 
 T K Roy of Wetlands International ( ), told TOI, “We recorded lesser species diversity at Sultanpur compared to previous years. However, we can’t compare the exact number, as formal census was not conducted in the national park in the previous years. The numbers are declining due to the impact of global climate change, less rainfall and shrinking and drying of wetlands. Also, this census in March was much delayed, as temperature usually start to rise at this time. As Basai lies very close to the national park and within Sultanpur’s eco-sensitive zone, we also conducted a census at the wetland and found 21 species there. The number is low, but there is need to protect the Basai wetland from fisheries, as it is disturbing this important habitat for birds.”
 
 AWC is part of the International Waterbird Census (IWC) of Wetlands International, and the largest water bird census in Asia, carried out simultaneously across 27 countries once a year. The census is also carried out at other important wetlands in the NCR — Okhla Bird Sanctuary, Surajpur wetland, Najafgarh drain and jheel, Yamuna river, Sanjay lake and the National Zoological Park.
 
 
