As much as Valentine’s Day is about romance, it also seems to be about the song in a romantic’s heart. A handful of composers, including popular film celebrities, like   and Karthik, are coming out with singles today. From easy, breezy romantic numbers to happy and peppy love songs — composers are giving their own twist to make V-Day special for you. Here’s what’s in store... 

 
 
 
 
 This is one announcement Anirudh fans expect during V-Day. The composer has made it a tradition to come up with a single for the special day, every year. He says that he composes these Valentine’s Day singles according to the state of mind he is in. This year, the theme is quite different — a Valentine’s song with a twist. Titled Julie, this is, once again, a collaboration with director Vignesh ShivN. 
 
 
 
 
 
 After creating a buzz with their first single Koova, the trio has come up with a special song for Valentine’s Day. Titled Ulaviravu, (the word, coined by Karky, means date night), it is sung by Karthik. The first few lines, if you had noticed, had already appeared in Koova. Karthik says, “Gautham came up with the idea of doing a love song, about a couple who goes on a date, old-school style. With so much of technology coming in our way and with romance being all about emojis, this song is the real talk and experience a couple would have minus our phones. We discussed the idea and Karky came up with this interesting word and wrote the lyrics. Later, I took over by giving it a breezy tune. This love song is a quintessential Gautham number.” The surprise here is that actors Tovino Thomas and Dhivyadharshini will be appearing in the video. 
 
 
 
 
 Kumar Narayanan is another city-based musician who always comes up with singles for special occasions. This time, he has come up with a love song about a couple who becomes closer post a small tiff. “The girl is angry with her guy for something that he didn’t do. In my opinion, small fights bring a couple closer. This one, too, is about how they sort out their differences and fall for each other all over again. This one’s a peppy romantic number. I have rendered this one along with Anupama, who is trained in classical music,” says Kumar. Instead of shooting with actors, he has gone for animation with lyrics to go along with the video. 
 
 
 
 
 Composer Kaashif comes up with quirky singles for special days. This time around, for Valentine’s Day, he’s come out with a break-up song. And that, too, from a girl’s perspective! He says, “I had done a break-up song earlier, too, but that was from a guy’s perspective. We never know what goes through a girl’s mind when a break-up happens. So, this song is for all the girls.” The song is rendered by Sid Sriram and Jonita Gandhi, with lyrics by Mohan Rajan. The team will also come out with a special video for the song as well.
 
 
