CHANDIGARH: Preparing the syllabus in one-go, absence of sample papers online and uncertainty about weightage of chapters has heightened the stress levels of the first batch of Class X students to give the board examinations after a gap of eight years following the scrapping of the Continuous and Comprehensive Evaluation (CCE) grading system.

 As the exams draw near, the students are unclear what to expect in the question papers.
 
 “Had there been specific guidelines regarding the blueprint of question papers or weightage of chapters by the CBSE, we would have a better idea and understanding about the style of question papers we will get in the board exams,” said Palak Garg, a student from  .
 
 Unlike previous years, students this time had to study the entire syllabus — a practice they had not been following under the grading system.
 
 Akshiti Chauhan, a student of Brilliance World School, said, “The syllabus is too much to complete and revise. The change from CCE to board exams is difficult to cope with.”
 
 Students said the exams have left them with no time for extra-curricular activities. Aryan Bahl, another student, said, “Extra-curricular activities had to be cut down for preparation of exams. This is adding to the stress levels.”
 
 Amaan Malik, another student from Hallmark Public School, said, “Being the first batch to appear in board exams has doubled our trouble. How to prepare the full syllabus in one-go is the major concern, since we are in the habit of preparing syllabus in parts.”
 
 In the absence of proper guidelines from the CBSE, even the mentors are in a fix.
 
 Renu Bhardwaj, coordinator, Hallmark Public School, said, “I wish a blueprint was floated for the facilitation of teachers as well as students. Though we find a number of sample papers on various sites, their authenticity is under question.”
 
 Sunita Kapoor, a senior counsellor in a government school, said, “The CBSE should have allowed this class to go with optional board exams, as they have studied the same way in Class IX.”
 
