The heat is on, and the mercury is set to rise further. How about scorching things up a little with your wardrobe as well? In keeping with the leggy weather, get out those itsy-bitsy   in denim, linen, lace or yes, even sequins, to that   party. A substitution for the yoga pant, shorts exude flirty charm, hug the butt flatteringly and are apt to show off your tanned legs, too. Here’s looking at different styles and how to wear them...

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 Here’s a hybrid you will love. The skort — a pair of shorts with a flap over the front so it looks like a skirt — is a stylish notch-up to regular shorts. It has a sassy appeal and is seen on tennis players and golfers, too.
 
  Depending on where you are heading to, wear the skort with sequinned flats, a strappy metal bag or a beach tote.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 These hit the old-school nail on the head, alright...Remember shows like Mad Men? This season, you also can bring back the retro vibe with denim cutoffs. They can be worn short, knee or mid-thigh length and go with practically anything.
 
  Goes with espadrilles, keds or loafers or even heels.
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Hot pants or booty shorts are meant for the gym or a lounge about at home and are all about going shorter with the style. Pick them up in colourful shades of purple, pink, orange etc.
 
 These are super comfy shorts, but find one that suits your shape.
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Here’s a style that can go from day to evening during the hot season. Striped shorts can add a smart, edgy vibe to the look and make for smart casuals at work. They can also be worn to a ‘spa-rty’. Remember, clashing prints are out. Always wear them with a plain coloured top or T-shirt.
 
  Accessorise the look with metal   — try long chains, bracelets or bangles as well as thong sandals.
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 More comfortable with the high-waisted style? Don’t worry, that isn’t old-fashioned and passé. Also called ‘longs’ as opposed to shorts, these are very much in vogue. They show off a more elongated leg look. A simple tank top or cropped top go best with them.
 
  Try a monochrome number with peach or cream high-waisted shorts and a matching jacket.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Don a pair of lace shorts for some light, feminine charm. Best part is, these can be worn in a whole lot of vibrant hues like teal, yellow, orange, pink and red.
 
 Our vote goes to classic white with a solid colour top, envelop clutch and sandals.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Not quite the bikini, pool shorts are when you want to wear something longer at the pool and still look stylishly cool. Made from a stretchy fabric, these can be worn in a variety of colours and prints.
 
  Since this is worn by the pool, the only accessory you might need are your glares. A beaded necklace and flip-flops are fun additions, too.
 
 
 A fave with Hollywood icons   and  , the gingham print is peppy and chic at the same time.   love the trend and it’s also huge on the ramp right now.
 
  Wear red or blue gingham-checked shorts with a classic white top or tie-up T-shirt. Minimal jewellery and a pair of glares complete the look. 
 
 
 
 
