KOLKATA: Even as Kolkata is limping back to normalcy after a severe storm ravaged the city earlier this week, Kolkata Knight Riders are preparing to tackle another storm threat - from the blade of   - when they take on Kings XI Punjab at the Eden Gardens here on Saturday.

 
 
 
 After being ignored in the first two matches, the KXIP opener has been on fire. He followed up a 33-ball 63 against Chennai Super Kings with his sixth   hundred - and 21st overall in T20s - to consign Sunrisers Hyderabad to their first defeat of the season on Thursday night.
 
 
 
 The West Indian stood and delivered in front of home fans in Mohali, smashing 11 sixes and one four in his 63-ball unbeaten 104. The fact that the onslaught came against SRH, who have one of the better attacks of this IPL, would have given KKR skipper   food for thought.
 
 Not just Gayle, KKR will have to plan for the lanky Jamaican’s opening partner too, KL Rahul. The Karnataka wicketkeeper-batsman gave his new franchise a rollicking start by hitting the fastest 50 in IPL history (off 14 balls) to set up an easy win over Delhi Daredevils in their opener.
 
 The KXIP batsmen have been the most destructive in Powerplay overs this season, scoring at 11 runs per over. It should make for an interesting battle between the KXIP top order and crafty KKR spinners as the home team looks for early breakthroughs. The KXIP middle order hasn’t yet fired. Veteran batsman Yuvraj Singh looks a shadow of his fluent stroke-making self and Aussie Aaron Finch is off-colour as well.
 
 After the mega players’ auction in late January, many felt KKR have formed a team with an eye on the future. The two-time champions, however, have done well to gather six points from five matches and look to have all bases covered. They are banking on Sunil Narine to provide a quick start along with Chris Lynn, while Robin Uthappa, Nitish Rana and skipper Karthik are building on that for Andre Russell to finish with a flourish.
 
 The spin trio of Narine, Piyush Chawla and Kuldeep Yadav haven’t allowed the opposition to run away and also picked up important wickets. Even part-time spinner Rana has chipped with important breakthroughs. It is their pace attack that remains an area of concern.
 
