PANAJI: The process of implementing digital   and speed   on taxis operating in Goa will begin within the next three months, minister for transport Ramkrishna Dhavalikar told office bearers of the North Goa Tourist   Association on Wednesday, in a meeting. 

 “The government will adhere to the Supreme Court directives on installation of speed governors for commercial vehicles. The taxi owners have been told that they can approach the courts if they want. The government will not ask for any relaxation from the court. So, the deadline to implement speed governors stands,” Dhavalikar told TOI, following the meeting with the taxi association.
 
 In January, tourist taxi operators had gone on a statewide strike opposing the Supreme Court order that mandates the installation of speed governors on taxis among other commercial vehicles. The strike was called off following an assurance from the government that it would file an intervention petition in the apex court to seek relaxation for taxis in Goa.
 
 Following the strike, the state transport department had issued a notification extending the deadline for installation of speed governors for taxis till July 18. Dhavalikar said that this deadline will remain unchanged.
 
 Goa government had begun the process of calling bids for integrated devices with GPS/GPRS, digital fare meters, LCD display, receipt printer, panic button, etc, to be provided to taxis. Dhavalikar said the process will go ahead as scheduled earlier.
 
 The ministry of road transport and highways had issued a notification in 2015 amending the Central Motor Vehicles Rules. According to amendments to Rule 118 of the Central Motor Vehicles Act, 1989, speed governors are required to be fitted in transport vehicles with a maximum preset speed limit of 80km per/hour.
 
 This order was issued by the SC in order to curtail the speed of heavy vehicles. In Goa, all vehicles that fall under the M1 category — goods vehicles, tempos, buses, among others — came under its purview. A letter from the Supreme Court committee on road safety on April 11, 2017, mandated that all taxis be included in this category.
 
 
