Chikkamagaluru: Encounters with king cobras in Malnad region is a common phenomenon, but finding experts to rescue the highly poisonous reptile is a rarity. 

 It requires special skills to handle king cobras when compared to other poisonous species. Snake Naresh is one of the very few snake rescuers in the region who has expertise in catching king cobras.
 
 A resident of Chikkamagaluru, Naresh has rescued 256 king cobras in the last 22 years. He often travels around 100 to 150 km to rescue king cobras. He has also rescued 35 pythons and around 21,000   of other species, including Indian cobras till date.
 
 The 40-year-old developed an interest in rescuing snakes when he was pursuing his II PUC in Tiptur where one of his friends died due to fear following a snake bite. “A non-poisonous water snake had bitten him. He died due to fear. At that time I decided to know more about snakes and start catching them. The first snake I caught was an Indian cobra,” Naresh said.
 
 Generally, many   do not attempt to rescue king cobras as there is no possibility of survival if bitten. “If a king cobra attacks the catcher, he can’t escape. Recently a senior snake catcher in the district died as he couldn’t escape the king cobra’s attack,” he said.
 
 “Presently, in Chikkamagaluru, only three catchers have expertise in rescuing king cobras. I get distress calls from the remotest villages of Mudigere taluk. I always alert the forest department authorities about spotting the king cobra as it has been made mandatory now. After rescuing the snakes, I release them either in the Charmadighat area or other thick forests of the district,” he said.
 
 King cobra rescued in Mudigere 
 
 A 12-feet king cobra was rescued in a remote village of Mudigere taluk of Chikkamagaluru district on Friday night.
 
 The rescued snake was later released in the Charmadighat of the district.
 
 Around 8.30 pm on Friday, the cobra tried to enter the house of Prabhakara Gowda, a resident of Gabbal village of Mudigere taluk. His pet dogs, which saw the snake started barking. When Gowda and his family members came out, they sighted the king cobra and immediately informed Snake Naresh.
 
 Around 11.30pm, Naresh rescued the cobra which was hiding in a bush in Gowda’s compound.
 
 
