AHMEDABAD: Gujarat has always carried the tag of being  . However, as cries demanding justice for   hit a crescendo along with  , five-year data on crime against children reveal that year 2017 saw highest rape and kidnapping cases against minor girls.

 Analysis of data of National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), Gujarat Police and the state government, the state recorded 493 rape cases and 2,514 cases of kidnappings or abduction – which roughly translates to nine rapes and 48 kidnappings per week. This is almost double the number of rapes of minor girls recorded in 2016. The first two months of 2018 too have recorded nearly 10 cases of rapes and 57 cases of kidnappings.
 
 
 While age-wise break-up of the rape survivors in 2017 and 2018 was not available, as per NCRB data for 2016, there were 10 survivors below the age of six years, 23 between six and 12 years, 175 between 12 and 16 years and 319 below 16 and 18 years.
 
 
 ‘Girls should learn self defence’
 
 Gujarat ranked 15th among 29 Indian states in crime against women for the year. “Traditionally, high numbers are reported in 16-18 years age group where the cases of rape long with abduction or kidnapping are clubbed together when the case is of elopement,” said a senior state police official on condition of anonymity.
 
 Women's rights activist Manjula Pradeep, who handled the infamous Patan gang-rape case, said crime against minor girls was rampant but more cases are being reported now. “Earlier, we would come across cases where parents of a minor would not file rape complaint fearing social stigma. Due to rising awareness, people are seeking justice,” said Women's rights activist Manjula Pradeep. Pradeep added that it is time sexeducation is mandated in schools. "Girls should be taught self-defense and raising voice against any physical violation.” A report titled ‘The Children Cannot Wait’ by Kailash Satyarthi Children's Foundation, set up by Nobel laureate Kailash Satyarthi puts Gujarat at second worst spot in POCSO cases.
 
