MUMBAI: Emcee Arpita Tiwari’s death is the only case of murder reported last year that remains unsolved in   (Goregaon to Dahisar belt). Thirty murder cases were recorded last year, nine fewer than in 2016. There was a 70% decline in chainsnatching year-on-year, with some police stations in Mumbai North not reporting a single snatching last year. But thefts increased by 19% and robberies by 61% which means police need to increase visibility on the streets.

 Malwani, where Tiwari's murder case was reported, incidentally had the highest number of killings (8) last year. The thick slum pockets where altercations frequently end up in violence is a contributory factor. There's also the fact that the number of policemen posted here is way lesser compared to the enormous geographical area and its population.
 
 Dahisar police station reported the maximum robberies (27) last year. The proximity of the Mumbai-Ahmedabad highway gives an advantage to robbers to flee outside city limits soon after committing a robbery. The highest number of thefts were reported at   police station (202 cases) in 2017. “We managed to solve some prominent cases. Diamonds worth Rs 34 lakh were stolen from the India International Jewellery Show at Goregaon in August 2017. Within three hours, two Chinese nationals were held,” said a senior officer.
 
 "We took up tackling chain-snatchings as a challenge. With multiple strategies like preparing a dossier on habitual snatchers, keeping tabs on those released from prison and deploying our men at points where most snatchings occurred, we brought down the number of cases to 44 last year," said regional additional commissioner Rajesh Pradhan. Police have started 'nukkad meetings' with people in their jurisdiction, be it residents, shopowners, motorists or hawkers. This helps them know the sentiment in the area and could provide valuable information for crime control. "There has been a lot of proactive action against illegal parking of vehicles, using inflammables in food stalls etc. The number of such offences has surged but that is a positive development as its objective is public safety," said Pradhan.
 
