FATEHGARH SAHIB: Seven labourers were injured in a   late on Thursday night in a steel factory near Chanalo village on the Sirhind-Bhadson road in   district. Reasons for the blast at   factory are yet to be ascertained. This is second furnace blast in this factory in five months. In the earlier blast, three persons were killed in November 2017. 

 The injured were rushed to the Fatehgarh Sahib civil hospital where doctors discharged three of them after giving first aid. Four labourers, including the one who suffered burn injuries on the face, were admitted to the hospital. Those injured have been identified as Gurmeet Singh, Sukha, Jameel, Goldy, Nona, Vicky, and Jitendra. It is being suspected that the labourers were not wearing safety kits as it could have saved them from the face and body burns.
 
 The doctors said that one of the injured had around 20% burn injuries and was still undergoing treatment in the hospital, while three more were discharged after treatment for mild burn injuries on Friday evening.
 
 On November 10, 2017, a blast in a furnace of the same factory was reported in which three persons were killed and four seriously injured. Factory owner Suresh Goyal was booked for causing death due to negligence. Police are yet to file a challan against the accused in the court, which is to be submitted within 90 days of the registration of the case.
 
 Sirhind station house officer (SHO) Pradeep Bajwa said, “Three out of seven victims were discharged. The matter is being probed thoroughly. For this, we have called the experts to look into the case and tell us the reasons behind the blast. The owner was arrested last year after three labourers died following a furnace blast. He is out on bail. He was out of state when the blast occurred last night. A case will be registered soon.”
 
 The SHO said the challan could not be submitted in the court in the previous case following lack of details of the affected migrant labourers and their delayed medical reports from a private hospital in Ludhiana.
 
 
