Nagpur: Additional chief judicial magistrate (ACJM) has issued a show cause notice to the investigation officer and senior PI of Mankapur police station last month for having arrested Jahin Khan whose dispute with his kin over monetary issues had led to a group clash leading to ransacking of several shops near auto-rickshaw stand in front of Kalpana talkies on December 16. 

 It is learnt that the show cause notice has left the cops in tizzy over such a tough stand taken by the court. As city cops are now being left in tight corner by the escalating rivalries among the various groups, the court order has now seemed to have added to their woes as many have now started thinking twice before proceeding for making a deterrent arrests in their cases. 
 
 Jahin had almost a dozen cases of cheating against him. His delaying in returning cash Rs16,000 to Samiullah Khan, a former cop, had led to the group clash which had led to tension at Mankapur chowk with a group ransacking shops. Samiullah and his brother too were injured in the clash which was led by Jahin’s accomplice gangster Karim Lala. 
 
 The ACJM court, cracking its whip, had sought explanation from the cops for bringing Khan before him without opting to bail him out from police station. The court has also raised question on the applicability of section 294 of Indian Penal Code in the case for acting or uttering obscene words in public. Having issued the notice, the court had sought a reply within eight days from the officers for their alleged ‘disobedience’ to the follow the guidelines set by the Supreme court in the Arnesh Kumar case. 
 
 An official, on the condition of anonymity, said section 294 of IPC was evoked as Jahin and Lala had hurled abuses to their rivals at Mankapur chowk during the clash which had led to the invoking of the provision. “If court takes such stringent stand regarding bail and rights even in cases where residents were affected due to clashes of goons under broad daylight in the full view of the public then officers would prefer going slow even if it meant aggravating of the situation than to risk their own career,” he said.
 
 District Government Pleader Nitin Telgote said Arnesh Kumar judgement do not refer to blanket ban on arrests but it should be accompanied with plausible explanations underlying the need. “It is the duty of the officer to explain the court the need for custody remand along with the background. In this case, the officer could have tried to convince the court stating that they wanted the custody of the accused as he had used an object to cause injuries for which the recovery became an important aspect,” said Telgote. 
 
 
