India has emerged as the largest market for shoemaker Bata, which operates around 1,500 stores across the country with annual revenue of nearly Rs 2,500 crore. It has its job cut out in the face of stiff competition from nimble brands that bank on e-commerce for sales. The company’s global CEO   spoke to TOI about how   plans to shake off its traditional image and strike the right chord with the youth.

 
 
 
 No, we consider Bata brand to be a competitive advantage. In 10 years, we may have lost a bit of aspiration value for the youth. But that is being recuperated very rapidly. Accordingly, we will be launching several line extensions under the Bata brand.
 
 
 
 Bata is the market leader in athletics footwear in India. The Power brand sells more shoes than the other brands — Nike, Adidas, Puma and others combined. We have opened the first ‘Power’ store concept. We plan to open many more.
 
 
 
 Bata is a global player with strong Indian roots. We keep working on our collections and price points. And the pricing of Power collection is engineered very precisely and meticulously to offer the Indian consumers a competitive value equation for their rupee. They get more shoe out of Power than form any other brand. And that is one of the secret of our success in India.
 
 
 
 
 I am happy with our performance in India and particularly with our latest performance. Because we are accelerating our rhythm of growth. In 2018, our turnover will grow well in double digits. We are continuing to expand our operating margins.
 
 
 
 In India, it is difficult to have a very premium high-street retail experience because of the ways cities are and because of the pollution. At the same time, the way you do your delivery through omni-channel in a country so wide and diverse is more complicated than in other parts of the world. But we will adapt. The global average for shoes-in-hand is around six while in some countries it is around 15 such as in the US or Europe. In India, it is around three and, therefore, we have a long way to go. So, it’s a good thing.
 
 
 
 The retail market in the world is alive and well. In the west, there are some markets with key challenges. For instance, in the US, you have a market that is overbuilt with malls. And, the overall retail industry in both online and offline is growing even in Europe in low single digits. It is growing very rapidly in Asia. Footwear market is growing around 5% globally.
 
 
 
 In case of market cap, it is always hazardous to engage in speculation. One thing is clear though that we have margin opportunities in India and we are determined to capture that. Our mantra here is to grow our topline profitably. We will not grow the topline at the detriment of the bottom-line. We will continue to expand margin in India.
 
 
 
 In five years from now, we will become a company with a billion dollar turnover.
 
