MANGALURU: After a kabaddi tournament was organized by UTK Brigades, now Ullal Friends Circle (UFC) is gearing up to hold the  , a cricket tournament in the name of minister  . 

 The tournament will be held at the Sea Grounds in Ullal. International cricketer Syed Kirmani will be present for the valedictory of the three-day event that got under way on Friday. 
 
 Though the UTK Trophy cricket tournament is being held at a time when the state is heading towards assembly elections, the organizers assert that it is ‘Sports for Peace,’ and say that it has nothing to do with politics. The tournament is being held on the seashore in  , which is the constituency of minister for food, civil supplies and consumer affairs U T  . 
 
 UFC president Fairoz Ahmed Ullal told TOI that the UTK Trophy 2018 is not linked to the upcoming Assembly election. “UTK Trophy is being organized with the theme – ‘sports for peace’ and it has nothing to do with politics. We are holding the tournament in U T Khader’s name since the minister is instrumental in bringing various schemes to our constituency, especially for the overall development of Ullal. He is instrumental in implementing a Rs 280 crore project, that is aimed at providing a permanent solution for sea erosion in Ullal, sanctioning good roads, a multi-specialty hospital and many other schemes for the constituency. Proceeds from the tournament will be utilized for the treatment of poor patients,” he said. 
 
 “A total 18 teams will be participating in the UTK Trophy overarm tennis ball cricket tournament. The winning team will be awarded the UTK Trophy and Rs 1 lakh, while the runners-up will get a trophy and Rs 50,000. Attractive prizes will also be distributed to the best bowler, best batsman, man of the match and man of the series,” Faroz said, adding that the minister will also be playing for a team. 
 
 It may be recalled that fans of Khader had held an inter-fistrict kabaddi tournament on March 3 at Kinya village in the minister’s constituency. 
 
 
