PANAJI: The high   of Bombay at Goa has dismissed a petition filed by   seeking winding up of Global Energy Private Limited (GEPL) due to non-payment of over Rs 10 crore. The court observed that ‘Vedanta is taking advantage of its dominant position to engage in arm twisting tactic to try to recover the disputed amount’.

 GEPL had agreed to purchase 150 MW of power for a period between May16, 2013, to August 15, 2013, from Vedanta.
 
 It paid Rs 41.8 crore to Vedanta as against an invoice of over Rs 52.7 crore. Vedanta issued a statutory notice to the company to pay the outstanding amount of over Rs 10.9 crore. As its dues were not totally paid, Vedanta approached the high court seeking winding up of GEPL in 2015.
 
 According to GEPL, which is in the business of selling power to companies, Vedanta supplied less power than what was agreed to. This caused serious embarrassment and loss of reputation of GEPL as it failed to honour commitment made to its customers. GEPL disputed the claim of Vedanta and also filed a civil suit before the local court and sought compensation.
 
 A single bench justice N M Jamdar observed, “It appears to me that the petitioner (Vedanta) is taking advantage of dominant position to engage in an arm-twisting tactic to try to recover a disputed amount. It cannot be said that the respondent company (GEPL) has no legitimate claim against the petitioner”.
 
 If this petition is admitted, it will have a devastating effect on the respondent company, and will trigger various consequences and push the respondent company towards bankruptcy, which as of today, is far from it, the judge noted.
 
 “The request of the respondent to restart the power has not been acceded to, in spite of receiving the amount of Rs 1 crore on December 18, 2013, and subsequently Rs.3.25 crore in this court. The company court cannot be oblivious to all these factors which go into the exercise of discretion,” the high court stated.
 
 During the hearing of the case, the petitioner’s lawyer, senior advocate  , argued that once the liability is established, the petition for winding up must be admitted. He stated that merely on the grounds of short supply in respect of some period, GEPL cannot withhold payment for power that was supplied.
 
 Senior advocate Nitin Sardessai, appearing for GEPL, contended that when there was a shortfall in supply of  , consumers of his client were affected. Vedanta, without warning, supplied less power and hence, GEPL has legitimate claim for seeking damages, Sardessai said. He added that GEPL is commercially extremely sound and the debt is seriously disputed and sought dismissal of the petition.
 
 
