COIMBATORE: A week after parents of children studying at the   in the city petitioned the collector alleging that the school has no science and maths teachers for Class X, they took their children to the district collectorate on Monday as the situation was still the same. More than 30 children from classes VI to IX gathered at the collectorate.

 The parents alleged that the corporation officials failed to take any action despite several representations. “We are concerned about the future of our children who are to face the Class X board exams soon,” said a parent. 
 
 Many parents said they had shifted their children from private schools to the   school, which has so far had a good track record in students’ overall performance. “We shifted our son from a private school to the Anupperpalayam school as it had good teachers and also excelled in extracurricular activities. But now our children are suffering due to lack of teachers,” said Hasina Banu, 36, whose son studies in Class X.
 
 Likewise, M  , 43, another parent, moved his son to the school from a private school. “Now because of the staff shortage we are concerned not only for our children’s future but also for the school,” he said.
 
 The problem started in July when the school did not have permanent teachers for maths and science, a parent said. “A maths teacher was deputed to the school in November but he was shifted out of the school in January. The teachers who were present in the first term were not there in the second,” said S  , 40, a parent of Class X student.
 
 Due to absence of teachers, students from the school said they find science and maths subjects tough. “The science teacher, who was there in the first term, completed a few chapters and left the school. Even if they depute a teacher now, how will they complete the remaining portions before the exams,” said a Class X student.
 
 When contacted, an education department official said the department would move the maths teacher, who had been deputed to another school, back to the Anupperpalayam school at the earliest. 
 
 However, the official maintained that the school has sufficient teachers. “There are only 90 students in the school, of which 20 are in Class X. The present strength of teachers is sufficient,” the official said.
 
