THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Having generated a revenue of almost Rs 4 crore for the residents of seven destinations in 2017 – besides securing several national and international accolades for its model initiatives –   (RT) mission is unveiling big plans for the state in the coming years.
 
 A draft RT policy that will be submitted to the government has proposed a special focus on 11 new destinations and developing 13 model RT villages. Further, plans include implementing RT classification for hotels, houseboats and other properties as well as initiating an accessibility auditing, to spread RT concepts across  .
 
  
  
 
 “A regular income is now being generated for the people in Kumarakom, Thekkady, Vythiri, Ambalavayal, Bekal, Kumbalangi and Kovalam through marketing of local products, village tourism, packages and art-cultural activities,” said RT mission coordinator  , adding that RT mission has further enhanced the income of people.
 
 He said this is evident in the Rs 1.6 crore generated at Kumarakom, Thekkady, Vythiri, Bekal and Ambalavayal between August and December 2017. Kumarakom is being cited as the most successful model. “Besides boosting the image of the destination, the best thing about RT in Kumarakom is that it’s well organized,” said Jaison Anithanam, general manager of   that owns a property at the destination.
 
 A major portion of the revenue from village tours is being distributed among residents, including women. Their products are procured by hotels. “It’s a win-win situation for property owners and residents. One should recall that a decade ago, most of these villagers were opposed to tourism in the area. RT has played a significant role in changing this perception,” he said.
 
 Ambitious plans: Drafted in line with the state’s new tourism policy, RT policy’s prime objective is to create 1.5 lakh jobs (direct and indirect) over the next five years. Jobs will be created in agriculture, production and marketing of traditional items and handicrafts sector. Tourism resource mapping, cultural packages, RT networks and online platforms too are expected to generate jobs.
 
 To realize the goal, a major step was to identify new destinations and launch model RT villages. Among the 11 new destinations thus identified are Dharmadom and   in north and Varkala and Poovar in South. Alappuzha, Fort Kochi and Vaikom are a few destinations in central Kerala that will be developed as RT destinations.
 
 Next fiscal, RT mission will join hands with LSG department to prepare tourism resource directories. Aimed at identifying new destinations and developing lesserknown ones, 14 such directories will be prepared every year.
 
 Bringing all accommodation units (including houseboats, tour operators and companies) under an RT classification is yet another major proposal. Once classified, properties and services will be linked to various subsidy schemes for which new guidelines will be prepared before March 31, 2018. The target is to implement RT classification in 300 units by March 31, 2019 after implementing it in Kumarakom, Thekkady and Vythiri.
 
 Stressing on the need to make destinations more accessible to differently-abled people, a working plan is being chalked out after deliberations with various stakeholders. An accessibility auditing is in the offing, apart from special tour packages and promotional videos under accessible tourism activities.
 
 The draft RT policy has also proposed various other innovative programmes including short-term cooking courses at homestays, ‘a meal at home’, ‘Café Kudumbashree’ and ‘Designer Thattukada’, envisaged as efforts to rebrand Kerala’s cuisine and hospitality.
 
