Jaipur: An eerie of silence often breaks by buzzing bees around the honeybee hives visible at several places on the structure spread in five acres of land with fading paint is not the description of any abandon industry but an locked engineering college in the outskirts of Chittorgarh.

 The disinterest in engineering owing to multiple factors have taken away the charm of such structures—students and teachers and off course rendered thousands jobless. Similar is the fate of over 30 colleges locked from a period of one to four years. While some dozen fully constructed buildings across the state are awaiting ‘acche din’ to start academic operations. 
 
 Many more colleges to meet the same fate is obvious from a fact that in 2017-18, against 42,000 seats in 94 colleges, barely 14,000 engineering seats were filled by the students. The grim situation has left several edupreneurs under the debt which they seemed not in a position to repay, unless the academic season runs smooth.
 
 “I am running the institute in losses for the past five years hoping every year that things will improve. Debt is soaring and barely able to pay the interest. It seems that 'giving up' is certain,” said a director, of an engineering college in Kukas.
 
 The situation of institutes in urban centres like Jaipur is far better as they have options to convert into schools but those in the interiors opening a school is also not viable. “The damage is beyond repairable. The closed or about to closed institutes outside the urban reach has very minimal chances to recover,” said RP Yadav, former vice chancellor of RTU.
 
 An edupreneur, Shashikant Singhi, fears to not see any improvement in the near future. He blamed the fast changing employability dynamics in several traditional sectors for engineers due to technological advancement making the task originally engineers replaced by non-technical employees.
 
 “The citadel of engineering is crumbling is directly related to skewed job opportunities is the simplest explaining. If, however, you have to understand the problem, then the rise of universities where you’ll have several courses and thousands of students explains that preference of students has become cosmopolitan. They want to experience other than academics which the single stream institutes have failed to deliver,” said Singhi. 
 
 
