CHENNAI: It has been almost seven months, since the   and the   factions merged in August last year and there is still no sign of the much talked about steering committee, devised to steer the party through collective leadership. Instead, the party is crammed at the top with 19 new organizing  , who will rub shoulders with the existing 11 to make it 30 ornamental posts without any formal roles. 

 Ever since the merger of the two factions, seniors in the OPS camp have been lamenting about not getting any recognition in the party and the much-needed steering committee too hanging fire. With EPS under pressure to include his 'quota' of leaders (from his faction) for the committee, as almost everyone worth his or her salt wanted to get in, disgruntlement was building up in both factions.
 
 In the end, both EPS and OPS appears to have settled for a via media. While just four ministers got posts, almost all the disgruntled leaders from the OPS faction have been accommodated.
 
 "No one knows what these 30 organizing secretaries will do, without any assigned roles. One thing is sure -all 30 will now be invited for meetings in the party headquarters. It is also because there is no ceiling in the appointment of organizing secretaries, while the steering committee can at the best have 11 or 15 members. It looks like the steering committee may never be formed," said a party leader, on condition of anonymity. But, for how long will these leaders remain happy with the new toothless posts, in the wake of T T V Dhinakaran flexing his muscles with a new party and actor   set to launch himself into the political arena? "That's a key challenge for the party leadership. For more than six months, the leaders were left lamenting. Having finally got this post, even if it is toothless, the partymen below should not be forced to lament now for not having any posts," a source in the   said.
 
 According to the source, the party is considering expanding the number of party districts to 60, 65 or even 70 from the existing 51. Each organizing secretary could be given responsibility of taking care of at least two districts each. 
 
 
