By Amogh Deshmukh

 What if you could transform your leadership team, end poor decision-making, and ensure you have the right leaders to drive higher performance? The gap between business needs and talent capabilities is a burning topic for most organisations. DDI recently launched the ‘Global Leadership Forecast 2018’, which highlights that the top two concerns for CEOs are still about developing leaders. 
 
 More than 1,000 C-level executives worldwide identified issues they expect to command their attention in the coming year. Of the 28 challenges from which they could choose, their biggest concerns weren’t headline-worthy global issues like political instability, climate change, terrorism, or a global recession. Rather, the top challenges vying for leaders’ action focused on their own leaders.
 
 Developing ‘Next-Gen’ leaders and failure to attract/retain top talent were listed among the top five — by 64% and 60% of global respondents, respectively. Leaders clearly indicated that top talent and effective leaders will be needed to address the myriad current challenges and to position their organisation for future success. The same research highlights that more than 2,500   professionals across the globe said that identifying and developing future talent is the most critical skill leaders will need in the next three years.
 
 It’s evident from research that good development is not a fix for a bad hire. No amount of development can salvage a poor hiring decision. The irony is that most of the times we are only talking about developing our leadership pipeline. But in the bargain, what sometimes gets missed is to analyse the root cause, which is the talent acquisition system, and analyse what links are missing.
 
 Here are a few factors that you may want to consider while hiring the right fit for your organisation. We compiled a study from thousands of assessments and impact studies conducted over more than 20 years. The idea was to demonstrate how to identify leaders who can drive profitability, grow and engage others and create a better business impact:
 
 Great leaders drive efficiency & profitability: Leaders with a long history of driving efficiency and productivity not only point the way for employees, but also build commitment to their organisation’s long-term strategy, translate company-level priorities into clear individual-level accountabilities, and continually track and optimise employee performance throughout the year (versus, at annual review time).
 
 Astute leaders focus on customers: Customer relationship management is a top priority for all businesses today. Regardless of whether leaders directly or indirectly interact with customers, they must make customer focus an imperative for every employee action, decision, and consideration. So, organisations have the opportunity to hire and promote candidates who will direct workplace operations with the voice of the customer in mind.
 
 Strategic leaders drive change: As the pace of change accelerates in organisations and uncertainty lingers, leaders must continually demonstrate their own agility and adaptability, in addition to driving these important performance behaviours in their teams. They themselves need to contend with change, while also enabling others to move through daily disruptions effectively.
 
 Strong leaders grow others: Outstanding leaders aim to leave their mark on those they manage. They strive to create stronger teams and team members who are better prepared for advanced roles. Their efforts and leadership philosophy are foundational to the “grow your own” approach used by companies wishing to design, fuel and access an internal pipeline of leadership talent. Companies that fill more than 80% of their leader roles with internal candidates are 3.8 times more likely to have higher post-appointment leader success rates.
 
 With the right approach, you can eliminate productivity-killing hiring and promotion surprises. Arm your hiring managers with tools, skills, and processes to master talent acquisition and interpret critical candidate information, ensuring you have the right fit for your organisation and ready to lead.
 
 The writer is managing director,  . Views are personal
 
 
