PURULLIA: Less than 24 hours after the autopsy, police claimed on Sunday that the death of   (30), a   worker found hanging from a high-tension electric transmission tower in Purulia’s Dabha the previous day, was due to suicide.

  SP Akash Magharia told reporters: “A post-mortem was conducted by a team of five doctors. We received the report today. It clearly says death was due to asphyxia, due to hanging, ante-mortem and suicidal in nature. We wanted to share the (post-mortem) findings so that no confusion remains. Further inquiry is on.”
 
 Magharia’s immediate predecessor Joy Biswas had claimed on Saturday that preliminary investigation suggested the death was a case of suicide. Biswas was later transferred as commandant of State Armed Police’s 9th Battalion.
 
 Kumar’s family claimed   was behind the murder. “My husband was killed by Trinamool miscreants due to political rivalry because he had joined BJP seven months ago and led the party to victory in the village booth,” his wife Monica said. She iterated her allegations on Sunday to a state BJP delegation led by Locket Chatterjee and Sayantan Basu. She even pleaded that the killers be hanged.
 
 District BJP president Bidyasagar Chakraborty alleged that police had refused to accept an FIR on the issue. “The victim’s family and our workers had gone to the police station to lodge an FIR. They were turned back. We are seeking legal opinion on this matter,” he said.
 
 Keeping up the heat, Locket said: “A few days back, (Trinamool MP) Abhishek Banerjee had said they want Purulia devoid of any opposition. The message was clear. Two incidents showed what the message meant.”
 
 Basu said: “Trinamool, miscreants, mafia and police — all have become one. It is just local residents who are against them. A lot of people who were Maoists earlier are now working for Trinamool. This nexus is proved through these murders.”
 
 Trinamool secretary general Partha Chatterjee said: “The manner in which BJP is propagating falsehoods and lies is condemnable. We have requested the government to take legal measures against the party for this.”
 
 Though BJP’s 12-hour Purulia bandh from 6am had an impact, the administration claimed otherwise. “This is absolutely a normal Sunday. Schools, colleges, banks and other government offices are closed as on other Sundays. That is why it appears to be like a bandh. Buses and other vehicles are plying like on any other weekend. No untoward incident has been reported from anywhere in the district. There is no bandh here,” district magistrate Alokesh Prasad Roy said.
 
 In Purulia, BJP had given Trinamool a tough fight in the recently concluded panchayat   and won 645 seats as against the latter’s 839. Of the 38 zilla parishad seats, Trinamool bagged 26 and BJP 9.
 
 
