CHENNAI: For  , success has never come easy. Following his signing for Norwegian club   back in 2014, the 26-year-old had to mostly warm the benches in the first two years. But the gritty Sandhu reaped the rewards in his third season when he started against Welsh side Connah's Quay in the first round of the   qualifiers, thereby becoming the first Indian to play in an   competition. However, an injury in the 30th minute curtailed his participation in the match and he could never regain a regular first team place.

 Sandhu returned to India and joined Bengaluru FC with huge expectations. But his performance in the   dipped after a few matches and the custodian also saw a red card against FC Goa. But Sandhu took the setbacks on his chin as he made some brilliant saves and emerged the man of the match against ATK recently.
 
 Sandhu says that the Europe experience taught him never to take things for granted. "Getting a chance as a goalkeeper is difficult in Europe because it's not an outfield position where you can rotate players. So I would train hard. Actually, my game changed completely after the rigorous practice. I became more patient and mentally strong because I was waiting for my chances. I was putting the hard yards and in the process became strong physically. The stint taught me to keep working when it feels like there is no hope. Coming back to India was a tough decision. But I wanted more game time and Bengaluru provided me with the perfect opportunity," Sandhu told TOI.
 
 The Norway experience has given Gurpreet the edge over other established goalkeepers like Subrata Paul, Subhashish Roy Chowdhury and Amrinder Singh. Gurpreet though says he is his only competition. "It is a good trend to have so many 'keepers. But I focus on my game. I am my biggest competition and I keep pushing myself all the time," Sandhu said.
 
 Bengaluru have been prolific in front of the goal but have found it hard to keep clean sheets, with just three in 13 games. The Mohali-born 'keeper says he is still a work in progress. "It has always been a rollercoaster ride for me. But I know it's only a matter of time before I could regain the touch. Now, including the AFC Cup games, I have a few clean sheets. Chhetri and Miku are among the top-scorers in the league so I have been working with them. They are shooting from different angles in the practice sessions and it is bringing about some improvement. Our coach ( ) Roca also has complete trust in me. Even if I make a mistake, he is always encouraging me. That has given me freedom and I am not under any pressure," Sandhu pointed out.
 
 Despite settling at Bengaluru, Sandhu doesn't rule out another Europe stint in the near future. "I had gone to Europe last time with the thought of developing my game. Now, I have some international exposure and know how things work. So if I get another chance to return to Europe, it would be on terms that suits me," Sandhu asserted.
 
 
