CHANDIGARH: With an aim to make Haryana a hub of textile manufacturing, the state government on Tuesday approved ‘Textile Policy 2018’ to incentivize setting up of new units, and ensure growth and modernization of the existing textile industry in the state.

 Industries   announced this after a meeting of the state cabinet under the chairmanship of chief minister   on Tuesday. “The policy is packed with fiscal incentives and contains provisions for infrastructure augmentation, setting up of textile parks, promotion of khadi industry and facilities for skill training. It aims at generating 50,000 new jobs by attracting investment in the textile sector to the tune of Rs 5,000 crore,” Goyal said.
 
 He said the policy has been formulated with an eye on the cotton belt of Haryana. The state is one of the leading cotton producers in the country with Sirsa, Fatehabad, Bhiwani, Hisar, and Jind being the main cotton producing districts. This sector provides employment to about one million people and readymade garments worth $3 billion are exported from the state annually.
 
 Goyal said the policy proposes capital investment subsidy of 10%, subject to maximum of Rs 20 lakh, for the eligible capital investment for individual textile units set up in textile parks in ‘A’ & ‘B’ category blocks. For bringing in women entrepreneurship in Haryana, the policy proposes 15% capital subsidy subject to maximum of Rs 25 lakh. It aims to boost textile exports by compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 20% during the policy period.
 
 He said that to support textile machine manufacturing, the policy proposes interest subsidy at the rate of 3% per annum charged by lending agencies on term loan and capital subsidy at the rate of 15% of gross FCI to manufacturers of textile machinery across state.
 
 Textile enterprises acquiring technology will be provided financial assistance of up to 50% of the cost for adopting technology from premier national institutes, subject to maximum of up to Rs 25 lakh across the state, he added. Market fee and HRDF charges will be reduced and charged at the rate of 0.25 per cent each.
 
 Rs 455cr surcharge waiver for govt depts
 
 Haryana cabinet approved the proposal of the power department to waive off the surcharge amount of Rs 455,43.40 lakh on outstanding electricity bills of government departments, urban local bodies and panchayats to help facilitate settling of these outstanding bills. This is in keeping with the framework of the tripartite MOU signed by the state government with Haryana DISCOMs and the   under UDAY Scheme.
 
 Nod for amendment in service rules
 
 State cabinet approved the proposal of the home department to amend Rule 12.16 of the Punjab Police Rules, 1934, to introduce additional qualification (10% weightage) and miscellaneous (10% weightage) in case of direct recruitment of constable and sub-inspector and abolish interviews. 3% vacancies out of the vacancies to be filled up by direct recruitment shall be filled up from outstanding sportspersons. The   may co-opt one or more technical experts such as serving or retired police officer not below the rank of deputy superintendent of police psychologists, doctors, subject matter experts from time to time, to assist them.
 
 Haryana increases number of challanning officers
 
 According to proposal cleared by cabinet, state transport controller; deputy commissioner concerned; additional deputy commissioner; additional or joint state transport controller; secretary, regional transport authority (RTA); flying squad officer; sub-divisional officer (civil)-cum-registering authority (motors); city magistrate; transport commissioner; additional or joint transport commissioner; general manager and traffic manager, Haryana Roadways; motor vehicle officer (enforcement) and motor vehicle inspector (enforcement) and assistant secretary, RTA are authorized to challan overloaded and unauthorized vehicles.
 
 
