GREATER NOIDA: The Jaypee group, which operates the  , has been asked to install crash barriers on the median verge and take a series of other additional safety measures in the wake of two major accidents earlier this week, one of which killed three AIIMS doctors.

 The directions have been issued by the   ( ), whose writ runs from Zero Point to the Jewar toll plaza. But the measures are expected to be homogenously implemented across the length of the expressway. 
 
  
  
 
 The Yamuna Expressway has seen 4,848 accidents since it was opened in 2012.
 
 YEIDA has asked for wire rope crash barriers on the median so that vehicles that lose control do not end up on the other carriageway or plunge into underpasses. “The crash barriers will help reduce such accidents. Similarly, attenuators (heavy plastic-moulded drums), which can reduce the impact of a collision, will be placed in vacant spaces or wherever there is extra land towards the left,” said YEIDA CEO Arunvir Singh.
 
 The directions were issued after officials of YEIDA, Jaypee and engineering consultancy firm RITES said on Friday. Another major decision was to reserve the extreme left lane of the expressway for two-wheelers. “Two-wheelers are involved in 10%-15% of accidents and it has been decided that the extreme left lane will be reserved for them,” Singh said.
 
 YEIDA has also asked Jaypee to increase the number of speed guns from 3 to 10 so that the speed range of a vehicle can be monitored. Jaypee has also been directed to display provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act on the 16 huge display boards on the expressway along with regular warnings about licence suspension in case of traffic violations.
 
 Further, the Highway Saathi mobile application will be linked with Google so that every time a motorist breaks the speed limit, a pop-up notification of the violation is sent to the cellphone. YEIDA also noted that the emergency call box installed on the expressway was dysfunctional and had to be activated immediately.
 
 On March 18, a Toyota Innova crashed into a slow-moving mini-truck near Kaiti village in Mathura district around 2.30am, killing the three doctors. The same day, a UP Roadways bus had hit the divider and fallen into the underpass at Dankaur in  , killing two and injuring 22 people.
 
 
