Panaji: Women’s football in Goa is gaining due importance in the state ever since the Goa Football Association ( ) introduced the Women’s Football League this season.
 
  For years, the young girls didn’t have a platform to showcase their talent and Goa hardly produced internationals.
  
  But things are slowly changing and lately, in a move to support and promote women’s football, the Goa   Premier League (GSPL) announced the Sevens Women’s Festival from April 28 to May 17 to be held at the Ambelim Sports Complex. It will be held simultaneously with the second edition of the men’s league.
  
  “It gives me great joy to announce that this season we are having a sevens women’s football festival along with the men’s league. Women today are equals with men and they deserve a similar platform wherein they can showcase their skills and abilities. And we are here to support them as they will get an opportunity to witness a fast-paced football format,” said GSPL president Benjamin Silva during the launch in Margao on Saturday.
  
  Six teams will participate in the women’s festival —  ,  ,  ,  ,   and Royal Builders Navelim.
  
  “Last year and this time too, I was the only Goan to play in the Indian Women’s League and it was a good opportunity for me. There is no team from Goa, so my priority is to play in any other side,” said Michel Castanha, who played for Indian Rush SC this season after turning out for FC Pune City in the previous edition.
  
  “People are coming forward to help us and if it continues, I think Goa will be the best football team in the country. Hope more clubs come forward and support women’s football. Hope this is the beginning of something big,” said Michel.
  
  It was only a year ago when Michel got a call up for the national team and travelled to South Korea for the AFC Asian Cup. The midfielder didn’t get any game time and has struggled to make it back into the squad coached by Maymol Rocky, also of Goa, but hopes the upcoming tournaments will inspire her.
  
  There is more reason for cheer as CRC, Chinchinim, will conduct the CRC Women’s Cup this month too and the dates of the two tournaments to be held in South Goa are likely to clash.
  
  “There was a time when there were hardly any tournaments for us but things have changed now that there are continuous competitions. We are really confused where to play and how to adjust with the timings,” said   Lobo from Pernem.
  
  Cynthia is one of Goa’s best defenders and was adjudged player of the tournament in the Goa League as she played a vital role in SCC Cavelossim SOWS triumph. “We practice individually and try to maintain our fitness. Otherwise we only come together ahead of a national camp,” said Cynthia.
  
  There were high expectations when Goa took part in the 23rd Senior Women’s National Football Championship in Odisha. They finished second to Tamil Nadu on goal difference but there were a lot of positives to carry forward for the future.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
