Nagpur: State finance and forest minister Sudhir Mungantiwar on Thursday called on Union home minister Rajnath Singh in New Delhi and placed a proposal for a Rs535.16crore special development package for Gadchiroli district. As part of consultation process for the upcoming Union budget, Mungatiwar was in the national capital for the scheduled meeting of state finance ministers called by Union finance minister Arun Jaitley and also of the GST council. Before those meetings, the state finance minister, who is also guardian minister of Gadchiroli, called on Singh to discuss the problems of the Naxalite-sensitive district which is also one of the most underdeveloped districts of the state. Gadchiroli, which has abundant forests, has 34% tribal population. The district figures low on the human development index . With little avenues for employment mainly because of the Naxalite violence threat looming over for nearly two decades, the per-capita income is abysmal. There is need to usher in development and provide infrastructure in the district so that people are weaned away from Naxalite influence, the minister told the Union home minister. For a speedy development of the district, Mugantiwar put before the home minister a development plan. Under it, Rs 200cr would be earmarked for roads, Rs45.42 cr for strengthening mobile and internet connectivity network, Rs36 cr for augmenting irrigation facilities, Rs 10.14cr for the police machinery and Rs 240cr for the nascent Gondwana University. He has urged the home minister to provide this package from the Union budget to be presented next month. Singh assured him of taking up the proposal on priority. Meanwhile, chief minister Devendra Fadnavis held a meeting of members of Parliament from the state in Mumbai to seek their cooperation in putting forward state matters during the budget session of Parliament. Fadnavis, earlier this week, toured Delhi to discuss budgetary proposals for the state with Jaitley. He also invited the Union finance minister for the ‘Magnetic-Maharashtra : Convergence 2018” global investor summit to be held in Mumbai next month. He has also sought Centre’s help for getting more low-cost loans from NABARD for creating agriculture infrastructure, especially irrigation facilities in state.