HYDERABAD: Telangana BJP president K Laxman demanded an apology from chief minister   for his 'derogatory' remarks against Prime Minister   at a public meeting in Karimnagar two days ago. He said it was inappropriate to abuse the PM, who represents 125 crore people of the country. 

 Addressing a press conference on Wednesday along with BJP MLA T Raja Singh, spokesperson Krishnasagar Rao, Raghunandan Rao, Rakesh Reddy, Sudhakar Sharma and others, Laxman said that KCR was making statements against the Centre mainly to divert the attention of the people from his failures.
 
 "TRS made several promises in the 2014 election manifesto, many of which were unfulfilled in the past four years. Now, eyeing the elections, the TRS government is promising Rs 4,000 input subsidy per acre to farmers," Laxman said.
 
 He charged the TRS government with being responsible for suicides by farmers in the state and having them arrested for demanding MSP for their produce in various districts. "Now, the government is wasting public money in the name of formation of  ," he said. "After the TRS came to power, many industries such as Nizam Sugars and Kagaznagar Papers Mill were locked out and workers thrown onto the streets," the BJP president said.
 
 Laxman said that the Centre has been implementing various schemes for the welfare of farmers such as PM   and Kisan cards and several thousands of crores have been allocated to states for the schemes. But, the Telangana government failed to implement the schemes, the BJP president said. He dared TRS to debate on the central assistance given to various schemes in the state in the Assembly as the state government was spreading false information on the Centre's assistance to the state. 
 
 In another meet on 'Nirudyoga Garjana' (unemployed youth meeting) organised by the BJP Yuva Morcha at KPHB on Wednesday, the BJP president said that his party would continue to fight till the state government fill up all the vacancies in government departments. "The TRS announced that it would fill up one lakh vacancies if it comes to power. But the government failed to keep its promise," he said.
 
 
