There is no IPL, no World Cup or international ODIs for India, and the South Africa Tests aren't exactly a betters' paradise. But the   in Delhi aren't complaining, for they have found a lucrative replacement - popular reality show  . The finale of the show is tomorrow and according to bookies, Delhi has bet several hundred crores on the four finalists already. The estimates of how much amount is exactly riding on the result of the show vary. Some bookies claim that bets of around Rs200-250 crore have been made on the show around Delhi while others claim that the figure is as high as Rs1,000 crore, if you take into account the nearby areas in NCR as well. "This is not an organized sector so it is impossible to estimate that figure. However, the number is not as high as what it would be for IPL or any cricket game. That said, it is substantially higher than everything else. I have had bets worth twice as much as last year for this show," says a bookie from the capital.

  
  
 
 
  
 The bets are of different kinds. Some people bet on the show’s winner months in advance. Most such bets become useless once various people are evicted over the months. Others also bet on who is likely to get evicted every week. "The week when there was speculation about Priyank Sharma's re-entry on the show was a busy one with a lot of people betting on it," explains a bookie. However, the bulk of the betting is done in the finale week itself. Bookies say that the odds on various contestants keep on changing over weeks. 
  had odds of about 3.5 to 1 when the season began, which are now down to 1.25 to 1, making her the favourite. Similarly, Puneesh Sharma's odds have come down from 6.5 to 1 to 3 to 1, Hina Khan from 3 to 1 to 1.5 to 1, and Vikas Gupta from 4.75 to 1 to 2 to 1.
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 The people betting on the show from Delhi include gamblers who don’t watch the show but bet because it is popular. Amit Singh, a south Delhi resident, tells us, "I have bet a few thousand rupees on   because she seems all set to win the show. Quite honestly, I don’t watch the show but it is a good bet. I spoke to a few of my friends and did some research on the show before betting." On the opposite spectrum are fans rooting for their favourite contestant, such as Nitin from east Delhi, who bet Rs2,000 on   earlier and has now placed a new bet on Hina Khan. "For me, it is who I want to win. I have been watching the show for five years. Last year, I bet on Manveer to win and he did. This time, I got a bit unlucky with Luv but I’m certain my new bet will pay off," he says. There are also people betting on Bigg Boss for the first time. Anant*, a Noida resident explains, "I place bets on cricket regularly but this something new for me. I have bet Rs10,000 on Shilpa Shinde. It's just that the show is popular and given Shilpa’s popularity, I think it’s easy money."
 
 
  
  
 
  
 According to bookies, Shilpa is the clear favourite to win the show with over 30% of all the bets from Delhi against her name, while Puneesh is the least favoured of the four finalists. "Almost one-third of all bets are on Shilpa Shinde to win. She is the clear favourite, followed by Hina Khan," says a Noida-based bookie. There were also allegations by former contestant Arshi Khan on Twitter that the makers favour Vikas Gupta or Hina Khan to win as the bookies do not win the favourite Shilpa Shinde to win. However, bookmakers are quick to rubbish the allegations that some of them are colluding with the show’s makers to ensure Shilpa doesn’t win as it would be bad for their business. "I wish we had that much clout but all such talk is nonsense," quips one bookie.
 
  
 Bookies say that a lot of the bets this season have come from west UP due to the popularity of Luv Tyagi in the region. Luv, who exited the show last week, is a Gurgaon resident and has amassed a sizable fan following in the west UP towns of Meerut, Muzaffarnagar, and Ghaziabad. Bookies say he received considerable bets against his name from these places prior to his eviction. "What makes it interesting is that there has been a lot of interest from West UP and NCR towns of Noida and Gurgaon due to the presence of Luv Tyagi and Puneesh Sharma, who are quite popular there. With Luv out, bets from UP have reduced now though. Puneesh's popularity is limited to Gurgaon maybe because he is a local boy," says a bookie from Delhi.
 
  
 
  
 
 
