KOLKATA: In an effort to provide self-defence training to the city’s working women, Kolkata Police (KP) is organising a fiveday workshop called   from May 19. The project comes in wake of a spurt in crime against women in public places — the alleged molestations of a college student in a Baghajatin auto, a homemaker in another near Behala’s Chowrasta, a young marketing executive by a group of rickshaw-pullers.

 
 While KP’s existing Sukanya project teaches self-defence techniques to school and college students, the plan is to reach every sphere of the society.
 
 The participants of Tejaswni — to be run by Kolkata Police Sergeants Institute — will be taught basic self-defence moves by trainers holding black belts.
 
 “When women step out of their homes, they are sometimes subjected to unwanted touches or obscene behaviour. There are certain individuals — of criminal minds — who try to take advantage of certain situations. Our training will make women more confident in tackling these incidents,” KP wrote on its Facebook page.
 
 The response, especially from women, has been good. Almost everyone welcomed the move. Many though, wanted the timing to be changed. “This is a good initiative… I will try to join. But reaching south Kolkata at 7am is not feasible. A flexible time will attract more people. Else, similar training should be given at all police divisions,” commented Akansha Banerjee.
 
 Aharna Chowdhury Ganguly wrote: “Good initiative. But will it be effective for working women? They can’t attend the training from 7am to 10am as it is the actual office time.”
 
 Girls — who are learning martial arts — and parents felt it was important to learn selfdefence. “Knowing martial arts increases confidence and helps us tackle adverse situations,” said  , a Class-VII student who is a taekwondo player. “It is beneficial for young girls to learn some form of martial arts as it boosts confidence and helps them overcome any kind of situation,” said  , a   resident and mother of a schoolgirl.
 
