CHANDIGARH: There seems to be no end to the suffering of students in this year’s state-level National Talent Search Exam, conducted by the State Council of Educational, Research and Training (SCERT’s). 

 While earlier the parents had raised the issue of   giving 5 grace marks for 5 wrong questions in the paper, the council has now reduced the number of students to be selected from 13 to 10, overnight, said parents. While the parents had earluer approached the Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights for the wrong questions, they have now approached the   and Haryana high  .
 
 The court has already issued a notice for March 28, a copy of the order is with TOI, to the director of SCERT, director of NCERT, secretary of Union ministry of human resource and development, and NCERT liasion officer Mamta Sharma. Four students, who ranked 9 in the test, and their parents had approached the court, saying that they would have been selected if the SCERT had not reduced the number of students to be selected for appearing in the national-level exam.
 
 Giving details, the counsel for the students and parents,  , said the parents had said that SCERT’s website, till February 21, that 10 general category students will be selected. However, they changed it to seven. Earlier, they had given 5 grace marks because paper setters had put five erroneous questions. “This has spoiled the merit list. As a result many, meritorious students have been deprived of a chance to be selected,” said Chandgothia.
 
 Vivek Kumar, a parent who is part of the writ petition, said his son had been left out because of one mark. “He would have cleared if the paper was error-free. Educational institutions conducting competitive exams should be sensitive and transparent in their dealings. Wrongful actions by such bodies add to the stress of students, who are already under pressure. I had no option but to approach court, when our repeated pleas fell on deaf ears,” he said.
 
 Prateek Chandgothia, student of Class X at  , whose legal notice and petition before the CCPCR, brought the issue into focus, said, “A teacher cuts our marks if we give a wrong answer. But when a teacher gives a wrong question, what can a student do? It is inequality.”
 
 He added that the efficiency of a child sitting for an exam was adversely affected when he/she had to grapple with a question without a solution. “I missed attempting 4 to 5 questions because of the time wasted on wrong questions,” he said.
 
 
 
