MOHALI: Residents of   and   continue to face tough times due to frequent unscheduled   and erratic power supply.

 On Wednesday afternoon, there was unscheduled power cut in many sectors of Mohali.
 
 With summer season at its peak, the residents could be seen complaining. Mohit Khanna, a resident of Phase 3B-1, said the area had witnessed a 3-hour-long power cut. “The power went out at around 11 am and was restored around 2 pm. The children cannot enjoy their vacations owing to frequent unscheduled power cuts and they cannot go out and play in this summer. So they are stuck inside the whole day. However, when there are power cuts, the situation is all the more difficult as they cannot even watch television.” 
 
 Baltana in Zirakpur also faced major power cut lasting over 18 hours on Tuesday and the people had no option but to wait for the electricity department to restore power.
 
 Residents said despite repeated complaints, the power department officials did not do anything. 
 
 Those residing in Mohali and Zirakpur have also been complaining of fluctuation in power supply and low voltage.
 
 Gagandeep Singh, a resident of Sector 71 in Mohali, said, “I have a recording studio in Sector 71. Recently many electrical appliances were damaged due to voltage fluctuation that cost me around Rs 40,000. When we asked the officials, they claimed that some maintenance work was going on. Such works should be carried out in winters when power cuts don’t irk the residents that much.”
 
 The rising mercury, heat wave and unscheduled power cuts in several parts of Mohali district have started affecting residents badly. Those who can afford generators or inverters are depending upon them, while others, who form a majority, have no other option but to bear the scorching weather.
 
 Resident fear that these power cuts would increase in the coming days as the temperatures have started rising. In Mohali’s Sector 71, Mataur village, Kumbra village and nearby areas power is snapped at frequent intervals and for hours together, even during the night. Low voltage is also an issue due to which most home appliances fail to work. 
 
 Apart from that, residents of Zirakpur, who living in various housing societies, said unscheduled power cuts, erratic and low voltage was regular feature here.
 
 Sachin Sharma, a resident of Mona Greens-2, Zirakpur, said, “We have been suffering due to unscheduled power cuts and erratic power supply. There have been many unscheduled power cuts and voltage fluctuations damaged my TV and refrigerator.”
 
 Meanwhile, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) superintending engineer HS Oberoi said, “regular power supply is being provided to the residents and we have not received complaints as such. There was no such problem in the city. If they were some issues in certain area, they will soon be resolved.” 
 
 
