INDORE: Enraged over being asked to fill a   as promise of ‘good behaviour’ during 10-day-long Gram Bandi, a large number of Manpur   on Tuesday staged a protest outside naib-tehsildar office and executive magistrate.

 
 “Over 90 farmers from five Manpur villages have been issued notices under section 111 of CrPC to fill a bond of Rs 5000 as promise to maintain peace during Gram Bandi. None of them have any criminal record or willing to break law. They want to participate in the protest peacefully,” protester   told TOI.
 
 Administration and police is trying to suppress voice of the farmers by issuing them legal notices, he added.
 
 “Many of the farmers, against whom the notices have been issued, are very young and studying. They have no criminal case registered against them,” said the protesting farmers adding that if the notices will not be cancelled in a day or two, they will gherao collectorate before approaching court for ‘justice’.
 
 The protesting farmers waited for an hour outside the office of naib-tehsildar and executive magistrate, but when no official turned out to receive their memorandum, they moved to Manpur police station. “We have submitted a memorandum at local police station and urged them for cancellation of the notices, which have been prepared on the reports furnished by the police.”
 
  district president   said, “I am among the farmers, who have not committed any crime, but have been summoned on May 30 by administrative officials under section 107 and 116 (3) of CrPC. We will register our protest on this step of the administration since they are harassing the farmers mentally and mounting pressure on them so that they don’t participate in the protest.
 
 District collector   led a meeting of senior administrative and police officials to review ongoing preparations to maintain law and order situation during the protest.
 
 “There are proper arrangements of security in the district. As a preventive measure, the authority has identified some people and have asked them to fill bond as promise not to disturb peace,” DIG Harinarayanachari Mishra said.
 
 
