KOHIMA : In the battle for Nagaland, the spotlight has shifted to religion, which had never before taken centre-stage in Naga politics. The influential   on Saturday asked voters to make their choices with "God-given clear conscience". Council general secretary, Reverend Zelhou Keyho, had earlier sparked a row with his letter to political leaders of Nagaland, warning them of "Hindutva" forces trying to take over the Naga society. 

  "We are not against BJP as a political outfit, but the party needs to come clean on the perceptions about it," Keyho said in an exclusive conversation with TOI . "People have a sense of apprehension about its agenda across India, including Nagaland. It is time the apprehensions are laid to rest." 
 
  Trying to clear the air, rent with charges and counter-charges over the past two weeks, Keyho said, "In my letter, I had asked political leaders to watch out for the influence of a communal movement operating behind the political party." His words had been misinterpreted, he added, and had caused resentment even though he did not mean to benefit any party with his statement. 
 
  BJP has been taking a guarded approach to religion in the state, where 88% of the population is Christian. "Only a few people are trying to mix religion and politics to help certain candidates and parties. But the Naga people have realised that politics is for governance and religion is above politics," junior home minister and BJP's election-in-charge for Nagaland Kiren Rijiju told TOI . 
 
  Dismissing any cause of concern for BJP, Rijiju was confident about the party's prospects in the state. "BJP has emerged stronger because it is the only party that has understood and recognised the unique Naga history and political problems. Some parties are worried because of our growth here," he sa id . 
 
  Political watchers, too, link the intensified attack on BJP to the gains it is expected to make this election. A state BJP functionary said the party is sure of bagging at least 12 of the 20 seats it is contesting in alliance with the newly-formed National Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP), led by former chief minister and BJP's trusted ally Neiphiu Rio.   will be contesting the remaining 40 seats. Rio has also, from time to time, tried to stave off fears surrounding BJP and the possible communal agenda it could bring to the table if it were to be a part of the government. 
 
  "Local Nagas hardly question BJP on the issue of religion because we have cleared our position in this regard. We are committed to development and protecting all minorities,"   general secretary Eduzu Theluo said. "We are surprised that Shurhozelie Liezietsu suddenly started having apprehensions about BJP. He used to say BJP is a natural ally," Theluo added.   had been a long-time ally of BJP until early this month, when BJP dumped NPF for NDPP. 
 
  NPF has been appealing to voters to not "compromise" on their Christian faith by voting for the "wrong party". Party president Shurhozelie warned people that NDPP's alliance with BJP would threaten Naga "faith, culture and identity" . 
 
  Congress, though reduced to an also-ran with just 18 candidates this time, is also using the communal card against BJP. Nagaland Pradesh Congress Committee president K Therie said, "It would be foolish to vote for the Hindutva mission." 
 
 
