LUDHIANA: In a major step to tackle issues related to fire incidents on the station premises, Northern railway authorities have issued a direction to Ferozpur Division authorities to put a ban on the use of the liquefied petroleum gas ( ) cylinders by the food stall owners on the various platforms of the different stations, which come under the jurisdiction of the division. Following the decision of the higher authorities, the local food stall owners inside the station have removed the cooking gas cylinder.

 Now, the decision of the authorities, where the food stall owners have been barred from using LPG cylinders inside the station for cooking purposes, might lead to the downfall in the business. In fact, chances are the passengers now would not be able to enjoy hot food as they used to get earlier. 
 
 Senior divisional commercial manager,  , said, “After the directions of the senior authorities, all food stall owners have removed the LPG cylinders from their shops. They are trying to make their business work without the use of cooking gas cylinder, which can lead to a major fire incident inside the station premises.”
 
 After this decision, only pantry cars in major long-route trains or canteen inside the station premises would be allowed to use LPG cylinder for cooking purposes. Others have been refrained from using the cooking gas cylinder, following the ban, Luthra told TOI.
 
 Earlier, food stall owners on different platforms used the LPG cylinder to cook food. However, a senior divisional commercial manger told TOI that following the ban, the food stall owners will have to prepare food somewhere else and come to the station with ‘ready to serve’ food items.
 
 However, there will be pressure on the food stall owners to keep serving hot and fresh food to the commuters, without compromising on the quality of the dishes.
 
 Ramesh Kumar, a food stall owner, said, “This decision has come as a shock to us. Most of the passengers want us to serve fresh and hot food. Now, without cooking gas cylinder, it would not be possible. Our business would soon come to an end if the concerned authorities do not understand our problem and come up with a solution as soon as possible.”
 
 In fact, the food stall owners said the railway authorities should provide them with some guidelines on how to use gas cylinder for cooking purposes inside the station premises instead of putting a blanket ban on the use of it.
 
 Rajinder Sharma, a daily passenger, said, “The railways have taken this decision for the welfare of the people. The food vendors do not care about the safety and can put the life of the passengers at risk.” However, he also said that this decision will impact the business of the food stall owners since passengers mostly ask for fresh and hot food. 
 
 
