KOLKATA:   has decided to reopen a consulate office in Kolkata, more than three decades after it exited the city in the mid-1980s when militant trade unionism had led to flight of capital and closure of several corporate offices and airlines. The return of the diplomatic mission was as much a reflection of the change in Bengal’s business climate as the rise in tourists and students travelling Down Under.

 
 The consulate general’s office in Kolkata will take the number of Australian diplomatic posts in India to four. Apart from the Australian high commissioner’s office in New Delhi, there are offices of consulate generals in Mumbai and Chennai.
 
 Australia’s high commissioner to India   welcomed her government’s announcement. “The consulate general in Kolkata will strengthen bilateral trade and investment, particularly in the mining and resources sectors. We look forward to strengthening our engagement with Bengal and adjoining states,” she said.
 
 Commenting on the development, state finance and industries minister Amit Mitra said it would further common interests in mining, mining machinery, education, healthcare, leather design and tourism. “The Australian high commissioner had recently met the CM in New Delhi. During the interaction, we had appealed that a diplomatic mission be set up in Kolkata. We are glad the government has answered the call,” said Mitra.
 
 Sidhu had visited Kolkata two years ago. During the trip, she had remarked: “It’s a great city to be in. Kolkata has, of course, the reputation of being India’s intellectual and cultural capital and I’ve greatly enjoyed some stimulating discussions in the time I’ve been here.”
 
 As a trading port, Kolkata’s relationship with Australia goes back to the early days of European settlement there. In 1798,  , who had a trading business in Kolkata, arrived in Sydney with cargo from Kolkata. This was the start of a successful enterprise involving the export of goods from India to Australia.
 
 Around 15 Australian mining companies have offices in Kolkata, the leading among them being Orica, which makes explosives for mines. A couple of Kolkata-based companies, like  , are present in Australia.
 
 Australia also has Anglo-Indians and Goans who migrated from Kolkata. Almost half a million out of a total Australian population of 24 million are of Indian origin. Nearly 55,000 Indian students study in Australia while the continent attracts close to 2.5 lakh tourists.
 
 
 
