CHANDIGARH: Barely five minutes were enough to bring back strong memories of more than 50 years ago for former Prime Minister   when he visited Panjab University’s department of economics on Wednesday. Singh was in Chandigarh on Wednesday to deliver the first Professor S B Rangnekar memorial lecture at the university where he was both a teacher and a student almost six decades back.

 As Singh could not climb the 47 steps to reach his department on the second floor, he met the faculty members and students on the ground floor. “I am very nostalgic,” he told the gathering. “I would have liked to go up but I am not able to.”
 
 Singh also signed one of his framed quotes which read: “I am confident about the future of India. I firmly believe that the emergence of India as a major powerhouse of the evolving global economy is an idea whose time has come. Blending tradition with modernity and unity with diversity, this nation of ours can show the way forward to the world.”
 
 Before delivering the memorial lecture, Singh said, “The department of economics in those days was located at Hoshiarpur along with many other university departments. I joined the department as an MA student on 1952. This was the first year of adoption of the new MA syllabus in whose preparation Dr Rangnekar played pioneering role.”
 
 The former PM remembered Rangnekar as a great teacher who inspired him to go to Cambridge University. “On return from Cambridge, I joined the department as a senior lecturer. Soon thereafter the department of economics moved to Chandigarh and I had the privilege of working in the department with Dr Rangnekar as its head. Dr Rangnekar and his wife treated me and my wife as a member of their family. That was the happiest period of my life and I recall it with gratitude.”
 
 The department will now frame the autographed quote and put it up for display. Singh also met 15 student volunteers of the department and got pictures clicked with them. “I always had this desire to meet him. That desire was fulfilled today. I always felt inspired since he is such a great economist from our department. It was a great feeling to listen to his lecture today,” said  , an MA student of the department.
 
 Singh also met his student  , who is now a professor emeritus at the department. Describing it as a special feeling, Shergill said, “I touched his feet since he is my guru. He asked me what I was doing these days. My memories of him were that of a young teacher whose class would have pin drop silence. No student would ever come late to his class.”
 
 After halting at the department, Singh visited the Guru Teg Bahadur reading hall on the campus, where his library of 3,500 books would be housed. After accepting the Jawaharlal Nehru Chair at   in 2016, Singh had promised to donate his library to his alma mater and kept his word. Besides, he has also donated certain paintings. At the reading hall, a team of Chandigarh College of Architecture (CCA) presented him a design proposal for the installation of the books.
 
 After he left teaching at the university in 1966, he visited the campus twice. On both occasions, he was awarded honorary degrees. He was awarded the honorary causa degree of Doctor of Literature on March 12, 1983 and then he was awarded another honorary causa degree of Doctor of Laws on March 11, 2009.
 
