With all due respect to  's greatness, when it comes to track and field, no one, literally no one, raised the bar quite like  .

 Think pole vault and the strapping Ukrainian immediately springs to mind. An inevitable parallel when you're someone whom sporting history will forever remember for surpassing the world record in your discipline 35 times. In town as International Event Ambassador for the 15th edition of the  , Bubka, a former Olympic gold medallist and six-time world champion, spoke about his legacy, losing his long-standing world record to Frenchman Renaud Lavillenie and more, in an interview with
 .
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Well, always the base of athletics and pole vault is running. When I retired, I started to run more middle and long distances just for the pleasure. I travel a lot so I try to use any opportunity in different places in the world just to get in a uniform and go to run. For marathon, I admire the people who really enjoy it. I'm working, I'm preparing. Always step by step.
 
 Maybe one day I will be ready for marathon. I do 10 or 15k, which is fine but this is the next challenge.
 
 
 
 This is great - to leave a great legacy and great history, to bring attention, to motivate the young generation to come to sports, to athletics and to pole vault. To help people discover, through your performance, how beautiful an event is pole vault. For that, it's a great honour for me that I built interest and motivation for this excellent event.
 
 
 I have an excellent relationship with Renaud Lavillenie. He's a great person outside the sport, a role model for kids and youth. I like him so much and I'm happy that he broke the record and I passed the baton to the next generation. I believe he will encourage and motivate the younger generation.
 
 The young generation is growing but we need to wait and see. I know some good boys, a Swedish boy (Armand Duplantis) who is very special with his results especially last year. He was 17 and he jumped over 5.90. This is really amazing.
 
 
 First of all, I'm a lucky man, a happy man and I'm an Olympic champion. Of course I would prefer to have more, but this is sport. One was a political decision regarding the boycott. Then something else happened. I know sometimes people said 'Sergey is not a human being' but Sergey is a human being - he can win, he can lose.
 
 But I really like the Games. It is a unique event, not comparable to anything.
 
 
 
 I don't think so. When you are an athlete and competing, when you lose the record it's different. You work and try to get it back. But when you retire, it's something you cannot control. It's not yours honestly. I would say this belongs to sport.
 
 And especially in my case, when I'm involved in sports administration, when I'm giving back with great passion and pleasure, to help the young generation to be successful, to provide them with conditions to be better, to break the record and put new goals and achieve them, this is nice. And I knew one day it would happen. I prepared for that.
 
 
 
 This could be the goal of officials to reduce the time for pole vault. But this is the show. This is not how you can save the time. It is very important for officials when they discuss some changes, they need to use knowledge of coaches, they need to discuss with athletes and ask for their advice. Because when you reduce the time so much, this will really impact the performance of the athletes. We must remember that and make better conditions, not (have conditions) to create trouble.
 
 
 
 This (shortening of pegs) is nothing. You must run, you must clear the bar without any touch. This one is not serious for me. It's a question of skill and technique. The key issue for pole vaulters today is technique, not the peg or something else. If you do well, you clear the bar. Big peg, or small peg, nothing changes.
 
 
 
 Nothing has changed in terms of performance. The principle is the same - you need to run, you need to jump. You have outdoor competition, indoor competition. Nothing has changed to perform better.
 
 
 
 It's a very difficult and challenging issue, doping. This is the biggest threat to sport in the 21st century. Of course, we have cheaters and we have clean athletes. We must remember that. Athletics has undergone a lot of changes in the last year. There's been a change of leadership.  , my friend, is the president of IAAF and we've put in lot of efforts. We change the structure, we engage a lot of people, we must be correct and fair to clean athletes. A lot of things have been done well. We are improving. It's not so easy, some cheaters still exist. But we will do our best to make sport clean.
 
