Nagpur: Fed up over the callous attitude of civic officials in checking illegal constructions in Sadiqabad even after repeated complaints, citizens have served a legal notice to the authorities.

 Sadiqabad in west nagpur could turn out be classic case of civic apathy where it seems no building regulations are enforced. The area, which falls under Mangalwari zone, is dotted with haphazardly constructed unplanned buildings. Neither the town planning department inspects these buildings for illegalities nor the zone officials conduct any checks. Perhaps this is the reason a trend has gained pace on the periphery: a lawn is coming up just below the high tension (HT) wire and pillars are being constructed in the nullah for approach road by covering it.
 
 According to residents, work of the lawn started last month. “Since then, we are following up with the civic authorities to stop the illegal construction. First complaint was submitted to deputy director (town planning) on March 5. Subsequently, we also informed the zone office, NIT’s executive engineer, Vaishali Nagar, and enforcement department, but in vain,” said president of Association of Apartment Owners Of Sadiqabad Condominium Rakesh Gandhi. On March 17, the residents through lawyer AS Murty served notice to municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal, deputy director (town planning) and Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT)..
 
 TOI visited the area and spotted the lawn right below the HT line. Even construction of the pillars in the nullah was on in full swing. When TOI tried to extract information about the owner of the lawn, the labourers refused to speak.
 
 This year’s monsoon could spell doom for hundreds of residents. The nullah in fact acts as a tributary of Pili river and carries rainwater from this locality. However, construction on the nullah could spell doom as it will obstruct the flow and may result in a major catastrophe like the one that the locality witnessed during the June 2013 deluge.
 
 Residents also wondered how town planning department can turn a blind eye when the lawn is being constructed right below high tension lines. Even in 2017, following the death of 11-year-old twins Priyansh and Piyush Dhar and 5-year-old Umesh Pande due to electrocution by HT wires, a special panel constituted by Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court had submitted a list of around 573 houses that have been constructed right below the HT lines and whose occupants face grave risk. Despite this, no action was initiated by the civic body.
 
 Municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal assured to look into the matter.
 
 
