DARRAH(Kota): In the middle of the dense Darrah forest range, a constant clanging sound of hammer and chisel could be heard echoing for miles.

 The Mukundra Hills   Reserve (MHTR) administration is carrying out work on a war footing to develop an enclosure spread over an area of 24 hectares. The tigers from Ranthambore Tiger Reserve (RTR) will be relocated to this enclosure by February-end.
 
 When TOI visited Darrah, the department had only erected angle posts and fenced around 500 metres out of the 2,440 meters earmarked for the enclosure.
 
 The enclosure is being built to help animals acclimatize with the habitat before releasing them into the wild. Unlike the Seljar enclosure, which is spread over one hectare, the Darrah enclosure is being developed over 24 hectares.
 
 If all goes as per the new plan,   can boast of having tigers in all its three reserves. The forest department is finally relocating tigers to Darrah range of MHTR after 14 years.
 
 The project was first initiated in 2003 and notified in 2013, shortly before   became chief minister for the second time. The relocation project is expected to be completed during the present BJP government’s tenure.
 
 Though MHTR is spread over 759.99 sq km, covering the four districts of Kota, Bundi, Chittorgarh and Jhalawar, initially, only 200 sq km in Jhalawar will be dedicated to tigers.
 
 The densely wooded and picturesque Darrah sanctuary is spread over the hilly terrain with valleys and gorges at the Sawaan Bhado Dam. Also, there are only four villages in the area and most villagers have already moved out due to lack of facilities.
 
 “Our target is to relocate three tigers by February-end,” said  , chief wildlife warden, to TOI. “The relocation was delayed due to Supreme Court’s ban on ‘bajri’ (sand) mining. With no sand, the boundary wall’s construction got delayed. The department has also revised its strategy and decided to construct a 8km stretch of the 32km long wall, principally, to prevent animals from straying towards railway tracks and the national highway running through the Darrah range. Part of the fencing will be wall and part chain link fencing,” he said.
 
 MHTR is a combination of three wildlife sanctuaries, namely Darrah, Chambal and Jaswant Sagar sanctuaries. The forest department is constructing a 32km-long wall around Darrah, Kanwas, Ghati Mata, Amjhar and Seemliya and other areas to prevent human and cattle interventions.
 
 So far, work on 2km of the wall has been completed and construction of another 2.5km stretch is underway.
 
 
