MUMBAI: The Board of Appeal (BoA) of the   has split the one-year suspension handed out to veteran jockey   by the stewards.

 
 At its hearing late on Monday evening, BoA decided to impose a six-month suspension on Chouhan with immediate effect and has kept the remainder of the sentence as suspended for the next three years, which will, thus, only come into effect if the jockey commits a similar offence in that period.
 
 Earlier this month, the stewards had suspended Chouhan for a year for not allowing his mount Lord Commander to run on its merit. Lord Commander was the favourite to win the Quest For Cash Plate on March 15. The odds on him went up gradually before the race suggesting he was not likely to win. The gelding eventually finished fourth behind ownermate and winner Fine Tune which led to accusations of malpractice. Incidentally, Fine Tune attracted heavy bets. Chouhan later filed an appeal against the stewards’ decision.
 
 “While concurring with the stewards’ decision, we thought it is the first such major offence by Chouhan, therefore we decided to reduce his immediate suspension. However, we have kept the sword of remaining six months hanging on the jockey if he commits a similar mistake again,” Adi Narielwala, chairman of the six-member BoA told TOI. “Now Chouhan will not be able to ride anywhere in the country for the next six-months and he will be re-issued a riding license only after October 28, 2018, if he decided to apply for one,” Narielwala added.
 
 The BoA’s decision has sparked a furious uproar in the racing fraternity with many accusing BoA of being influenced by the powerful connections of the jockey. “It is deeply disturbing to see the stewards’ decision overturned by BoA under influence of powerful connections,” said  , a RWITC member and an owner who has been associated with racing for over 45 years. 
 
 “It is happening regularly now and it is shocking to know that BoA members were unaware that Chouhan had been suspended in the past and he was shown leniency on wrong information. Hyderabad Race Club had suspended Chouhan in the past and in spite of a court order, they ensured he never got to ride in Hyderabad,” he added, saying that RWITC should revoke the license of professionals who go to court as he felt this step was a must to clean up racing.
 
 “BoA decision shows that RWITC does not care about heavy losses that we suffer due to malpractices. BoA had enhanced punishment of erring professionals in the past and this time it had a golden opportunity to restore the punters’ faith but it has disappointed us,” said  , a punter from Lower Parel.
 
