TIRUVANNAMALAI: The Tiruvannamalai district   have launched a midnight ‘operation statue’ to remove the   of political leaders, including AIADMK leaders and former chief ministers M G Ramachandran and J  , erected at public places without taking permission from the authorities. They have decided to remove the statues during the night hours to avoid law and order problems. 
 
 Several statues have been erected by encroaching on government land and public places in Chengam, Tiruvannamalai and Arni. 
  
 “The officials of   removed the statues of   and Jayalalithaa erected illegally on the department’s land at Roundana in Tiruvannamalai town. We extended support and provided security to the highways officials to remove the statues,” said additional superintendent of police of Tiruvannamalai M Rangarajan. 
  
 The two bronze statues were erected ahead of the birth centenary celebration of AIADMK founder M G Ramachandran in July last year. It was scheduled to be inaugurated by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami during the birth centenary celebration on July 29, 2017. However, it was put on hold after the district administration refused to give permission for it. 
  
 However, the party cadres gathered in large numbers on February 23 and unveiled the statues of MGR and Jayalalithaa to mark the latter’s 70th birth anniversary. They also submitted a petition to collector K S Kandasamy not to remove their leaders’ statue. 
  
 Similarly, the party cadres in Arni unveiled the statue of Jayalalithaa at the old bus stand in the town on her birth anniversary. The statues of Dr B R Ambedkar, father of the Indian Constitution, and former chief minister K Kamaraj were unveiled in Chengam town and Devigapuram respectively. 
  
 Following this, the police removed the statues simultaneously on Tuesday night. Upon information, the AIADMK cadres gathered in large numbers in Tiruvannamalai and Arni and staged a protest from around 10pm. However, the police arrested them and removed the statues at around 2am. 
  
 “We have arrested 60 AIADMK functionaries and kept them at a nearby marriage hall. The statues removed from the Roundana were shifted to taluk office for safety,” said the ADSP. 
  
 The statues removed in other parts of the districts have also been kept safe by the revenue department. In Arni, around 100 AIADMK cadres were arrested, while 18 persons were arrested in Thopadi Colony in Chengam for trying to stop government employees from discharging their duty. 
  
  
