Quepem: After stalling the demolition of the old market building, the Quepem municipal council (QMC) could be in trouble as one land owner has accused it of illegally shifting hawkers and kiosks in her private property. Luiza Antao has complained to the QMC chief officer (CO) alleging that the council, without obtaining her approval, used machinery to level a property belonging to her on the western side of the Quepem-Cuncolim highway and shifted the movable kiosks and hawkers there. More than eight kiosks have occupied the space and are doing business in full swing in the area. The space gets crowded with even more hawkers on Sundays. Antao asked the council to vacate the area of the kiosks and hawker and to compensate her for the loss and inconvenience to her property, or else to face legal action. QMC chief Officer Darshani Dessai told TOI that she has instructed the municipal engineer to inspect the site and submit a report on a priority basis. Sources say that among the eight kiosks doing brisk business in the property, two kiosks are permanently grounded there. As per rules, the kiosks are required to be taken back at the end of business hours. In November 2016, following a TOI report, Filu D’Costa, who was then the QMC chairperson, had demolished four kiosks at Tilamoll that had been grounded for many years.  A QMC councillor Raul Pereira had raised the issue during the meeting held on November 2, 2016 . He had urged the chief officer to act against the illegal kiosks and even threatened to file a contempt of court plea before the high court of Bombay in Goa. Pereira is the present chairperson of QMC. Back in 199-97, in pursuance with a HC petition filed by a pedestrian Dattaraj Deshpande, the civic body had demolished 20 kiosks and other vendors. However, they could not rehabilitate them due to insufficient space.  Alleging that the council has, till date, failed to rehabilitate those owners, councillor Manuel Colaco said that QMC is instead allowing new vendors at prime spaces in Quepem town.