PATNA: The growing proximity between LJP chief and   minister   and CM   has raised speculations about the two leaders chalking out plans to form a front as NDA allies in the state have started exercising pressure tactics on the BJP before the 2019 general elections.

 Taking into account the recent communal tension in several districts and BJP’s growing aggressive postures and RJD’s frontal attack on the government on law and order issues, political observers feel the Nitish’s JD(U) and Paswan fear getting alienated from the Muslims and dalits. Now that NDA ally Jitan Ram Manjhi has joined the RJD-led grand alliance which eyes RLSP led by Union minister Upendra Kushwaha, Nitish and Paswan are apprehensive of the broadening base of   against BJP. 
 
 LJP sources said Paswan and Nitish met at least four times in the past six months and the CM, along with Kushwaha, is also scheduled to attend the national convention of Dalit Sena (LJP’s backbone) at Patna on April 14. They say the CM might announce the inclusion of Paswans in the Mahadalit category.
 
 “When Nitish created the Mahadalit category, he kept Paswans out of it and kept in the dalit category. However, the equation between Paswan and Nitish seems to have changed lately. We have been told that the CM may include Paswans in the Mahadalit category at the April 14 convention,” a senior LJP functionary told TOI on Sunday.
 
 However, a senior BJP minister told TOI even deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi would attend the Dalit Sena meet. “Modi ji has also been invited to the meet. That does not mean they are going to form a separate front,” he said. 
 
 On the contrary, RJD vice-president Raghuvansh Prasad Sing said on Sunday Paswan would join the grand alliance. “Talks are being held between RJD and Paswan, who is feeling suffocated in the NDA. I had also predicted about Manjhi leaving the NDA and joining us. The Same will happen in Paswan’s case as well,” he said.
 
 Sources said Paswan fears a dent in his dalit vote bank, especially after the recent communal clashes in Bihar. On March 18, he categorically cautioned the BJP ‘hardliners’ to refrain from making ‘off the cuff’ remarks and avoid distancing dalits and Muslims. He had also expressed concern over a ‘few’ BJP leaders creating an impression that the NDA was against certain sections of the society. 
 
 
