“
 ,” said a bemused Rahul P, a software engineer, to his newly wed wife, when he couldn’t find his car keys. Radhika, born and brought up outside Kerala, ran to the kitchen and came back holding a pot. “I couldn’t find anything in it,” she said innocently, leaving Rahul laughing out loud, while Radhika wondered what was happening.

 Rahul, who was a true blue Malayali, was amazed that Radhika was unfamiliar with the most common of idioms, phrases and  . But he stopped laughing and patted her on her back, saying, “
 ,” to which Radhika responded with a smile, “
 .”
 
 Indeed, the good old sayings, proverbs, usages, idioms and phrases in Malayalam that were once part of regular conversations are fast disappearing into the oblivion. The word 
  itself means ‘old sayings’ but they seem to have become older, and we see them being replaced by movie dialogues these days, and probably our politicians are the only ones using the forgotten proverbs to taunt their opposition.
 
 On International Mother Language Day, we explore some of the forgotten sayings and the need to revive them.
 
  Proverbs, idioms and phrases are always related to the folklore and the language of a land and are the true reflections of the wisdom, truth, morals, and traditional views of the land, say experts. And it is natural for a language to change according to lifestyle changes, according to writer Roshini Swapna. “The usages in every language have evolved with the experience and exposure of the speakers. Currently, we are in the era of new media, and it is natural for the language to take on different styles and usages. However, we should not forget that the intellectual sources of every language are its folklores and their etymology. We cannot completely do away with them,” she says. 
 
 Rammohan Paliyath, writer, agrees. “Proverbs are the biggest treasure of a language,” he says, adding that the Malayalam language has more than ten thousand proverbs. “I think no other language has such a wide range of proverbs. In my observation, for every proverb we have equal and opposite proverbs as well. For example, 
  (The grass is greener on the other side) has an opposite proverb - 
  (sour grapes). Proverbs can be quite insightful too, and though they are said in a lighter vein in simple language, they are all spot on. They can be satirical as well, for instance – 
  What a fantastic way to retort!” he says. 
 
 While the slangs, proverbs and usages evolve according to changes in the semiotics of a society, popular culture also exerts a great influence, says Hrishikesh Bhaskaran, one of the admins of the Facebook group International Chalu Union (ICU) which makes internet memes. He asserts that the current ‘
 ’ are film dialogues for sure. “If Ottamthullal, Aattakatha and epics represented popular culture earlier, now it is cinema. And it is natural for the former to be replaced by the latter. The word meme itself means ‘remix’ and we create one depending on the existing popular culture. People connect most with film dialogues now, like 
  and 
  The most popular dialogues are from films released in the past 20 years. But in earlier films, we used to find a lot of proverbs being used but not anymore,” he explains.
 
 Hrishikesh, though, is not optimistic about a revival of the good old proverbs, phrases and usages. “It is not possible by intentionally placing them in memes. We have experimented by adding a few but it wasn’t a success. The memes are crowdsourced and language has come a long way from that of the older generation,” he adds.
 
 Reviving the proverbs in the current situation poses many other challenges as well. “There are many politically incorrect ones which involve racism, sexism, body shaming, casteism and a hierarchical attitude that were prevalent in Kerala. 
 , and 
 (Beauty has no brains) are examples,” Rammohan says.
 
 Roshini fears that if we let language evolve the way it is currently, we may lose its richness. “The saddest part of our contemporary scenario is that we want to learn different languages, especially English, but we take the easy route. The legitimacy of a language resides in its usages, proverbs and phrases that add depth to its semantics,” she says, adding that we need to have a proper education system that teaches Malayalam in its pure form “It should be a conscious effort and we should start from children. We need to master our mother tongue first before going after other languages. We need to create our own identity, and only then can we explore the wider possibilities of a language. Otherwise, a language will become just a tool for communication,” she says. 
 
 Rammohan too feels it is very important to bring back the glory of our language. “For that we need to coin more words in Malayalam. The English alphabet has just 26 letters but has more than one million words while the Malayalam alphabet has 51 letters but less number of words. We have more synonyms than homonyms. A recently coined Malayalam word is 
  for toilet, see how positive the word is! In Arabic, for every new technological invention, they coin a word in their language - for instance, 
 for the mobile phone. Just like with words, we can also revive proverbs and usages that can rekindle the nostalgia and the authenticity of our mothertongue.” 
 
