KOLKATA: The West Bengal Medical Council will meet on Wednesday to “confirm and draft” last week’s guilty verdict against two Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals doctors, whose registrations were suspended for their role in the death of Dankuni resident  .

 Insiders, meanwhile, told TOI that the verdict reached was far from unanimous and involved the setting up of a special committee to investigate the charges again after the council’s own penal and ethical committee found no evidence of medical negligence.
 
 Roy died in February 2017 at  , hours after being released from Apollo, where he was being treated by general surgeon Shyamal Sarkar and interventional radiologist Usha Goenka. Roy’s family went to the WBMC, alleging medical negligence. The   last week decided to suspend Sarkar’s registration for six months and Goenka’s for a year after finding them guilty.
 
 Council president Dr   said the process being followed was “routine”. “The   does this for every verdict it reaches,” he told TOI.
 
 A source, however, said: “It is unprecedented that a special committee was set up to re-investigate a case after dismissing findings of its own penal and ethical panel. The usual practice is to ask the penal and ethical committee to rope in other specialists to probe the case further if the council feels that certain aspects were overlooked.”
 
 The eight-member penal and ethical committee had submitted its report in October 2017 giving a clean chit to the duo. The council then decided to set up a five-member special committee to look into the case again. “The council can exercise its discretion to set up a special committee comprising superspecialty doctors if it feels the case needs to be re-examined,” the Maji said.
 
 The special panel checked the post mortem report by SSKM Hospital. The forensic expert, who conducted the autopsy, testified that she did not come across any puncture mark on the femur of the deceased that could substantiate an angiography and then a following hepatic arterial embolisation. This is the basis on which the panel zeroed in on the negligence charge saying that not enough was done to stop bleeding from Roy’s liver.
 
 “The autopsy makes no mention of either the presence or absence of such mark. It was only later that she testified before the special committee that she had looked for this mark which she did not find. It’s unlikely for such tiny puncture mark to be visible eight days after the procedure was done,” said a doctor with the council.
 
 The penal and ethical committee earlier assessed the pre and post angio embolisation CDs provided by Apollo. The members then concluded that the procedure to stop bleeding was conducted successfully. WBMC, however, sent the CDs to  , which in December certified that the CDs were genuine. Council members, who backed the verdict, said there’s no pressure on the body. Some said the ethical panel had overlooked certain aspects.
 
