Madurai: The Madras high court’s recent refusal to lift the ban on sand mining in the state has crippled the construction industry in Madurai city, a critical sector in this industrially underdeveloped part of the state. Supply of sand has hit an all-time low with only one-third of the required river sand available.  What has made things worse is that M-sand (manufactured sand), the alternative prescribed for river sand, is available in very less quantity and its quality is also far from desirable. The builders appealed to the state government to take note of the alarming situation and make efforts to import sand from abroad. “The construction industry is already in intensive-care. If timely interventions like import of river sand in bulk from abroad are not undertaken it will be difficult to save the industry”, stated R Ilangovan, Madurai secretary and state vice-president, CREDAI (Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India). Madurai, during British Raj, had evolved into a textile town with many spinning mills coming up in the city and outskirts. However, after the 1980s the industry started witnessing a downfall with hardly two or three mills left in the city at present. With the agriculture sector also bearing the brunt of erratic climatic conditions, the construction industry has been the major source of livelihood for the people starting from 1990s. After 2011, the construction industry has been facing numerous hurdles and sand shortage has been one of the major blows in recent times, according to industry sources. Manufactured sand, much-touted as a way to bridge the gap, is yet to gain steam. “A certain expertise is required to deal with M-sand and local masons are yet to get acquainted with the material. Ready-mix (mixture of cement and M-sand) is another suitable option but a little bit expensive and yet to become popular”, reasoned Shadab Hussain of Trisquare Properties. Moreover, the price of M-sand has been steadily increasing after the court banned river sand mining. “There are not many players manufacturing M-sand. There is also the challenge of adulteration in M-sand which may lead to inferior quality of construction”, said K Muthuraman, a civil engineer from the city. Meanwhile, the workers have been facing untold misery struggling to make ends meet with their limited income. “They get only one or two days’ work a week now. A lot of them are trying to do odd jobs for their livelihood while a small portion has migrated to other towns looking for job venues”, C Subbiah, district secretary of Construction Workers Federation of India, said. The latest blow to construction workers has come in the form of the the state government’s bus fare hike. “A lot of workers travel to the city from outskirts. Out of the minimal days they are getting to work, they have to pay a sizeable sum as bus fare also”, Muthuraman added.