The legal age of drinking in   is 21. But most of the college students, who frequent   and night clubs, are underage. When asked for IDs,   come up with a number of excuses – sometimes they lie, at times they plead and occasionally, they even threaten. From giving weird excuses, dressing up more maturely and growing beards to ‘jaanta hai mera baap kaun hai’, here’s what youngsters do when faced with such situations. 

 
 
 Rishabh Chaudhary, a student from a college on Mussoorie Road, says, “Once, I wanted to take out my senior on a date to a pub on her birthday. Since I was not 21 back then and also didn’t look like one, I had to go without shaving for two months just to have thick beard and moustaches. I didn't want the waiter to ask me for my ID as it gets embarrassing and becomes awkward especially when you are on a date. I wanted my face to be my ID. I ordered wine for both of us but then the waiter asked for ID. I somehow managed to get away with it by winking at the waiter telling him that I am on a date, also it was just a week for me to turn 21.”
 Vanshika, 17, a student from  , says, “Whenever we plan to go out to have drinks, I ask my boyfriend to dress maturely. I put on a dress and he wears shirt. Usually, he wears t-shirts. Sometimes, I also ask him to keep a beard so that he looks older than his age and we are not embarrassed by asking us for ID when we order drinks.”
 
  
  Picture for representational purposes only
 
 
 
 Sanya, 17, who is preparing to get admission in a fashion institute, says, “Whenever I go to a pub with my friends and the waiter ask me for an ID, I just look into his eyes with confidence to show him that I am legally allowed to drink. And if he doesn’t get convinced with this, I try to play around by saying don’t you know ladkiyon se unki age nahi poochte.”
 Arti Singh, 19, a resident of  , says, “Since I am underage when it comes to drinking, I have to lie to get drinks at the bars. It happened thrice with me. Whenever I was asked for my ID, I told them, ‘I lost my wallet (or it got stolen). It had all my IDs and everything else. Please allow me as it will be another embarrassment in front of my friends after losing my wallet'."
 
  
  
 
 
 Shubham Negi, 19, a student who lives in  , says, “I love to party with my friends and once in a while go to city pubs to have some drinks but since I am underage, the waiter ask me for an ID. I try to dominate by telling him don’t you know whom am I? I have a lot of sources. You don’t let me have drinks and I’ll sit in front of the gate hindering other people to enter. And if this doesn’t work, I plead to him to let me in and promise that I won’t do any such thing again.”
 Rakesh Rawat, 20, a resident of  , says, “Whenever they ask me for an ID, I always have one thing to say ‘Oh there’s a friend inside already. He has my ID and even my family is coming. I don’t do anything illegal.’ At times, I also say do not ask such childish stuff because I come here every day. Aap naye ho kya? Aapne shayad pehchana nahi mujhe." 
 
  
  
 
 
 Ravi Verma, owner of a lounge at Rajpur Road, says, “It makes me laugh when I hear the excuse these children give me when they are asked for IDs. Their excuses make it clear that they are underage. Some say they are above 21 but just look young, others say you can talk to my dad to confirm my age. And when in a group of six- seven people, they want to get away by showing only one ID. But now it’s easy for us to deal with them.”
 
  
  
 
 
 It’s just not the age but the clothes that the youngsters are wearing that decides whether they’ll be allowed to drink or not. College students, who might have crossed 21, are not served drinks if they come to the pubs wearing their college’s uniform. Tushar Sapra, a student of a private   college, says, “It was so embarrassing when the people at this pub in the city denied serving us drinks despite having our IDs. Reason being, we were in our college uniform. We came directly from college for my pre- birthday party. I told them ki hum blazer utaar dete hai, shirt toh casual hai. But they didn't serve us. These people have become really strict.” 
 
 --Mansi Chaturvedi
 
