KOCHI: With the major drainages on arterial roads like the Banerji Road, the MG Road and the Sahodaran Ayyappan Road failing to provide connectivity to small drains on byroads, the risk of flooding has heightened in the city during the rains. 

 To make matters worse, various agencies like the  , the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation and the   (KMRL) haven't started taking any steps to address the issue.
 
 The drain along the Kaloor-Edappally stretch constructed by the KMRL are prefabricated drains. "The drains built by KMRL don't have proper inlets for the stormwater to flow in from small drains on byroads. There are no openings on the walls of major drains to flush out water from shops and households as well. It would result in waterlogging in byroads," said P M Harris, chairman, standing committee for works, Kochi Corporation.
 
 In several spots in the city, old drains have been demolished and the work on new ones are yet to be completed. "In   area, the Metro authorities have already damaged the old drains. They have constructed new ones in certain areas while there aren't any drains in several other areas," said councillor V P Chandran. 
 
 "At some stretches, though there are drains, they don't have inlets for the rainwater from small roads to flow out," he said. "As a result, the city has been facing waterlogging in many parts in the past two years. This time around, the condition would turn worse," he said.
 
 Lack of provisions for workers to remove slabs of the drains makes cleaning or de-clogging of drains a difficult task. "Usually, when we place slabs on the drains, we do it in such a way that there would be some removable slabs at certain points so that workers can carry out the clearing works. In the case of drains constructed by the KMRL, there aren't any such removable slabs. Moreover, they would concrete the top layer of drain and lay tiles on it as part of beautification," Harris said.
 
 Clearing of railway culverts and cleaning the drains on low-lying areas are also yet to begin. "Railway culverts should be cleaned using jet pumps. If the authorities don't take measures to address the issue, many points near the   area would get flooded in even the summer showers," said councillor C K Peter. 
 
 "Drains near the South Railway Station, including areas near Karuthala, the SRV School and Kalathiparambu should be cleared on a war-footing," he said. Lack of coordination among the various agencies has exacerbated the state of affairs. "It is the duty of the corporation to clear the drains on major roads before monsoon. Those who are responsible for the roads don't clear the drains. In addition, they won't inform the local body before renovating the drains," Harris said. "The construction waste of Metro rail is still being dumped in the drains," he added.
 
 Metro authorities, on their part, said they would take urgent steps to address the issue. "We would convene an urgent meeting of our engineering wing. The officials would be visiting these areas and will take measures to resolve the issue during summer season itself," said APM  , managing director, KMRL.
 
 Another cause for concern is that the corporation authorities are yet to start tender procedures for cleaning various canals and drains in the city. "We would start the process soon," Harris said.
 
 
