NEW DELHI: Bidders for  , which is facing insolvency proceedings, may delay delivery of flats and villas in and around Noida by up to three years in what may come as a setback to homebuyers, some of whom had booked the properties eight-nine years ago.

 But that is not the only bad news. If the Uttar Pradesh realty regulator accepts the plea, the bidders have also indicated that they will seek a two-three year moratorium on payment of penalty provided under the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, or Rera, to keep their liabilities under check, sources privy to the discussions told TOI.
 
 Estimates based on the current delivery schedule of early 2021 suggest a compensation payment of around Rs 1,100 crore, which will increase if the delivery schedule is extended. Sources said that bidders have indicated delivery schedules extending beyond 2021, which was the revised timeline provided by the Jaypee Infratech management in its submissions before the UP realty regulator. Lakshdeep Investments, which is part of Sudhir Walia’s  , said it will take up to five years to complete Jaypee Wishtown.
 
 A consortium led by Sajjan Jindal’s   has told the resolution professional and lenders that the projects will be completed by 2024. The time-frame provided by Cube Highways and Kotak Realty Fund as well as Adani Group, the two other bidders that have made it to the final round were not immediately available.
 
 The four have been asked to submit revised bids as the lenders were not happy with the offers on the table as only the Cube-Kotak proposal involved no haircut for banks, which have outstanding loans of a little under Rs 10,000 crore. With a massive land bank available to Jaypee, the lenders are hopeful of getting a better deal.
 
 In their bids submitted earlier, some of the players in the fray had also said that they will need to tap the Rs 700 crore deposited by  , the largest shareholder in beleaguered Jaypee Infratech, with the   to clear the compensation liability. In addition, they have indicated that they will need more funds for clearing the liabilities. Further, they want a return of the 868 acres of land that was mortgaged by the promoters to secure the loans of Jaiprakash Associates, a deal that has come under the cloud.
 
