PATIALA: Reports of two different inquiries in the alleged caste discrimination against a Dalit Sikh girl of a village in Patiala district are yet to be submitted. The official inquiry was conducted by the district administration, while another probe was carried out by a five-member committee appointed by the Akal Takht — supreme temporal seat of Sikhs.

 In January, the Patiala deputy commissioner had appointed an inquiry committee under assistant commissioner (grievances) Surinder Kaur to look into the matter and submit the report by January 16. However, even a week after the deadline, the administration is yet to submit the report and decide further action in the matter.
 
 The inquiry officials have recorded the statements of the victim and the accused teachers and students who are facing allegations of caste discrimination. On January 12, as many as 16 teachers, including the principal, of government school in Tohra village were transferred. A few days later, some students of the school along with the villagers had staged a protest against the transfers of almost the entire staff of the school.
 
 Patiala DC   could not be contacted for comments. AC (grievances) Kaur claimed the inquiry had been completed and soon the report would be submitted soon.
 
 The committee appointed by Akal Takht has also failed to submit its report despite the members having completed the probe after recording the statements of the accused and the victim’s family. On January 13, a five-member panel was appointed by   jathedar to look into the matter and submit the report at the earliest.
 
  member  , former general manager of Markfed Balwinder Singh, preacher at Gurdwara Baba Ajaypal Singh Nabha Rajinder Pal Singh, head granthi and manager of Gurdwara Sahib Dukh Nivaran, Patiala were appointed as members of the committee. After Tohra quit the committee,  , an SGPC member from Amloh, was appointed in his place.
 
 Tohra said, “I had quit on moral grounds so that the inquiry could be conducted fairly. I belong to this area and have been elected as an SGPC member from here. I thought it would be much better if some other SGPC member from another area inquires into the matter of alleged caste bias.”
 
 Balwinder, who is also a member of the probe panel, said, “We have recorded the statements of the victim girl and her family members. We also met the accused and their families and recorded their statements. The inquiry is complete but the report is yet to be submitted which will be done soon.”
 
 
