BHOPAL: Good luck finding   in  . Apart from  , there is hardly a thoroughfare in the state capital that has signs to tell you how fast to drive. This doesn’t stop traffic cops from fining people for “over-speeding”, though.

 
 Many find it unfair that they are challaned for speed when they haven’t been told what the limit is. That’s the lesser concern. The bigger worry is that speed freaks take advantage of the loophole to turn roads into race tracks.
 
 Traffic experts feel there is an urgent need to make citizens aware about speed limits and then enforce the law. Even the speed limit of 50 kmph on VIP Road is not practical, they say, because of the number of curves on this stretch. Speed limits need to be reviewed and designed afresh keeping in mind technical and engineering aspects, and the rise in vehicle count.
 
  (name changed), a 25-year-old sales executive, was caught by traffic cops in   and fined. He was baffled because he was wearing a helmet and following all traffic rules. He was told he was overspeeding and booked under Section 112/ 184 of the Motor Vehicles Act. He argued with the cops, pointing out that there was no road sign around on speed limit. The cops wouldn’t budge.
 
 Like Ramesh, most motorists are unaware of speed limits to be followed on city roads. The much-hyped Integrated Traffic Management System (ITMS) has created a sensation since citizens came to know that speed-detection cameras were being installed at various spots to catch speedsters. “That’s unfair, when the cops don’t tell us what the speed limit is, how can they penalise us,” asked a biker. A senior police officer told TOI that speed-limit violators will not be penalised under ITMS until basic infrastructure to make people aware of the speed limits is in place.
 
 ASP-traffic Mahendra Jain said that the speed limit chart for city roads is being prepared and proper signs will be installed soon. Advocate Ravi Kant Patidar, a resident of Misrod, said that the permissible speed limit should be displayed on all major district roads, state highways and national highways at conspicuous locations. “Otherwise citizen may end up paying penalties for flouting traffic rules,” he said.
 
 ASP-traffic Mahendra Jain said that speeding violations are usually booked under Sections 112/183 of Motor Vehicles Act, which invites a fine. However, dangerous driving is booked under Sections 112/184, which invites a court challan and possible jail term. “There are 52 major roads in Bhopal and speed-detection cameras are planned at seven spots under ITMS. Cameras have already been installed in five locations, including two spots on VIP Road and the others on Link Road 1, 2 and 3. Speed detection cameras will also be installed under ITMS on New Jail Road and Karond,” he said. Speed detection cameras under ITMS are working on trial basis, he explained. “Speed violators caught on camera are not being penalised as of now, but are being sent a warning message,” he added.
 
 Traffic expert Siddharth Rokade, who is with MANIT, rues that most roads have no speed-limit signs. “Arterial and sub-arterial roads should mandatorily have these signboards, which should be clearly visible at night too. People need to be made aware before being penalized. The speed limit fixed for various roads also needs to be reviewed and designed afresh,” he said. Giving the example of VIP Road, Rokade said that there are multiple “horizontal curves” and it is not possible to negotiate turns at 50 kmph speed as it may lead to accidents.
 
