NEW DELHI: The government can avoid spending up to   on transit accommodation for first-time MPs when they get elected in 2019. 

 The new block in   in Delhi, which Prime Minister   inaugurated on Wednesday, has increased a capacity to accommodate 162 lawmakers of Lok Sabha.
 
 Due to shortage of adequate transit accommodation, the government had to spend about Rs 35 crore for transit stay of the newly elected MPs. Sources said about Rs 9,000 to Rs 10,000 per day was the cost of hotel stay of each   if they stayed at ITDC hotels such as ‘The Ashok’. 
 
 With many veteran MPs retaining their government accommodations, there were instances of about three dozen Lok Sabha members staying sometimes for more than a year in hotels. 
 
 “This had triggered the Lok Sabha House Committee to push the proposal of building 88 suits on the space that was lying unutilised. The old block has 74 suits,” said an official.
 
 The complex has been built with Rs 80.5 crore expenditure and two level of basements have been built, which can park 391 cars. The project was approved in April 2016 and has been completed by the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) six months before the deadline. The complex also has gymnasiums for men and women. 
 
 While inaugurating the new block, Modi had said when MPs are newly elected, they have to stay in hotels and this makes headlines. He added that what is often missed is that previous occupants overstay beyond the designated time.
 
 Construction of the new residential complex for MPs is likely to end the public debate around the exchequer spending a huge amount for accommodation of MPs and the legislators holding on to hotel accommodations, even when they are out of the city and have a house in Delhi. last time it was more embarrassing as the parliamentary committee on accommodation had to issue warning to MPs to pay from their pocket, if they overstayed.
 
 The demand for accommodation of new MPs was highest ever this time as the present Lok Sabha has 330 first-time lawmakers. During two terms of UPA between 2004 and 2014, the hotel bill was only Rs 19.77 crore since most of the MPs were re-elected.
 
