GURUGRAM: The RWAs of sectors 3, 5 and 6 have urged the MCG to give them power to allow playing of DJ music and setting up of liquor stalls during wedding functions or parties in community centres.

 MCG officials have refused to comment on the matter. But if the civic body authorises the RWAs in these three sectors, then it could well become a norm across the city.
 
 According to   members of these three sectors, MCG took over all the community centres in Gurgaon in May 2016 from   and reached out to local RWAs asking them to maintain the same at a monthly payment of Rs 25,000.
 
 But they claimed they had to invest more than what MCG supposedly gave them for the upkeep of community centres and “are still reeling under drunken rowdies and defiant marriage revellers playing music till late night”.
 
 “I had initially dithered to take the maintenance of the community centre of Sector 5 which is under my jurisdiction,” said  , president, combined RWA, sectors 3, 5 and 6. “But slowly they convinced me and I took over. But then I started to realise that it was in a very shoddy condition,” he said.
 
 “I had to invest around Rs 4 lakh to refurbish the community centre. Of the amount, Rs 1 lakh was given by MCG but the remaining amount was earmarked from our own maintenance deposits,” he added.
 
 Residents said they were confronted with the problems of party revellers who were implacable over having liquor stalls erected at community centres and music playing till late night.
 
 “There revellers end up fighting and doing all sorts of stuff that bring disrepute to the area,” said  , a resident of Sector 3. “These men also create ruckus here. It’s common in our area that parties end up in fighting,” he added.
 
 Residents also complained that the late night music was also a great nuisance and it must be allowed only under particular parameters and conditions. “It is a great problem,” concurred  , the outgoing RWA president of Sector 14. “We often use boards and placards over the community centres notifying the public that they should only play music till 10 pm and liquor stalls must not become a source of chaos.”
 
 But deputy commissioner  , said, “No permission from the district administration is required for playing music within the compounds of a condominium or a society. The organisers can play it till 10 pm and care should be taken that others are not disturbed by it. If the loud music persists beyond 10 pm, then the local police station’s SHO should be contacted.”
 
 
