NEW DELHI: In order to boost India’s chances against Pakistan Cricket Board's claim of $70 million for   not honouring the bilateral series agreement, Indian board’s acting secretary   has sent letter to all those who worked as board officials since 2014 – including former bosses Shashank Manohar, N Srinivasan, Sanjay Patel, Anurag Thakur and former IPL COO Sunder Raman – seeking evidence of all that transpired between them and the   during their tenures. It is understood that BCCI is trying to make a strong case against Pakistan by fishing out details of old correspondence between the two boards.

 
 
 
 Sources said Choudhary has also sent a letter to the ICC, requesting them to furnish records of the board meetings that involved discussions on India-Pakistan bilateral series. BCCI hasn’t got any reply from the former bosses but sources said they would eventually come together and explain to the world that Pakistan’s position is untenable. Sources also said that the office-bearers, not the  , are handling this issue.
 
 
 
 When TOI contacted Choudhary, he simply said: “India has a strong case against Pakistan.”
 
 Sources said India is trying to build a case around the argument that BCCI had pledged support to play Pakistan in writing on condition that India would get the vote of the neighbours in formation of the Big Three – comprising India, Australia and England – financial model. Since the model failed to take shape, leading to reduction in BCCI’s share of ICC revenues, the commitment to play Pakistan also stands cancelled.
 
 ICC has constituted a three-member dispute resolution committee to look into PCB’s compensation claim against India for not honouring to play five bilateral series in an eight-year cycle (2015-2023). Source said that the hearing is supposed to take place later this year in October. As per the newly drafted FTP prepared by CoA, India have slots for Pakistan series, but it won’t happen till the clearance comes from the Indian government.
 
