PUNE: The police on Monday night raided a bogus call centre in the upmarket Koregaon Park area here, which is suspected of having cheated more than 11,000 US citizens by issuing threats of punishment for tax evasion. Three men operating the call centre were arrested.

 Significantly, the   (US) federal government’s Internal Revenue Services ( ) and the   (FTC) have lent their support to the Pune police’s economic and cyber crimes cell in the investigation of the call centre operations.
 
 During the raid, the police got details of two similar call centres operating in two other states in the country. The police did not identify the locations or the people behind the two centres, citing ongoing investigations. A police team left Pune on Tuesday to trace the two centres. The US authorities are monitoring the developments in all three cases.
 
 The police are in the process of assessing the overall quantum of money made by the Pune call centre and are examining the bank accounts of the three arrested men. The police have also identified four more suspects, who are yet to be arrested.
 
 
 
 
 The suspects used the names of American agencies. They forced US citizens to pay amounts ranging from $500 to $1,000 by threatening them with punishment if caught by the IRS.”
 
 Deputy commissioner of police Sudhir Hiremath said, “The suspects had procured data such as names, contact numbers and e-mail IDs of the US citizens. They cheated about 11,125 US citizens in the last three months. The call centre started operations in November, 2017.”
 
 Hiremath and his team raided the call centre at lane number 6 in Koregaon Park. The arrested men were Shivak Laghani
 
 (29) of Dhanori, Pratik Panchal
 
 (30) and   (33), both from Koregaon Park. The centre would operate from 9pm to 7am.
 
 After threatening the victims, the suspects offered a solution by asking for online payments in the form of coupons and vouchers of Itunes, Target, Walmart etc. “They sent these coupons to an agent based in another part of the country, who forwarded them to yet another agent located in another country. The agent paid the call centre in Indian rupee,” Hiremath said.
 
 
