BHUBANESWAR:  , the new   ( ) in-charge of  , will be facing a number of challenges to set the party in order when he visits the state later this month. 

 From tackling factionalism to stopping exodus of party leaders and voters and putting in place the organizational structure for simultaneous Lok Sabha and assembly elections in 2019, Singh will have his hands full.
 
 He is likely to visit the state within the next few days, party insiders said. Whenever he comes, he has to clarify whether the party high command would stick to Prasad Harichandan as Odisha Pradesh Congress Committee president or change him. The prolonged uncertainty over his continuance has kept the party's organisational works in peril. But in either case, Singh faces the daunting task of tackling infighting as the party, out of power in Odisha for the past 18 years, attempts to make a fresh start.
 
 In the elections after 2014, panchayat and urban local bodies besides bypoll for Bijepur, the Congress has been relegated to a third position conceding the No. 2 slot to an emerging BJP. The loyal Congress vote got divided between BJD and BJP. "If the party is serious about Odisha, Singh has to find a way out," a political analyst said.
 
 Ahead of Singh's tour, Harichandan on Saturday said there will be organizational changes in the party starting from the grassroots, sparking speculations of what is in store. Harichandan said, "There will be a Nabakelabara (massive change) of the party. New office-bearers will take over at the block and district levels. A roadmap has been drawn to gear up the party keeping in mind the battle of 2019." 
 
 He, however, did not clarify if the change he spoke about also included him, since his own position is perceived shaky. Congress MLA Tara Prasad Bahinipati, who has been vocal against Harichandan as PCC chief, said, "Harichandan has spoken about Nabakalebara. This may as well include him. It's for party president Rahul Gandhi to decide."
 
 A section of leaders believe it's already too late to change the PCC leadership, since the election is barely a year away. Detractors of Harichandan feel that he must be changed to save the party and are hopeful that he will be shown the door.
 
 
