CHANDIGARH: Forget reading and revising in your classroom or at home. Try something new. According to city-based counsellors studying at one place can get boring and may be distracting at times. Helping the students learn more, these counsellors are suggesting interesting ways that can help students learn and retain better. These unique ways of learning range from travel learning to bathroom learning and rewarding oneself after meeting every deadline.

 The counsellors are asking students to read a chapter when they are in the bathroom or while travelling and revise it without taking references from the book. They believe that oral revision helps build confidence.
 
  
  
 
 Aromatherapy, meditation and reading in front of a mirror are some of the most interesting suggestions that the counsellors are giving to the students set to appear for their board  .
 
 “I have added travel learning to my already existing list of suggestions. I also tell students to close their eyes and revise the points. Not only this, I suggest to them to dedicate one day to one subject. I also ask them to constantly revise the chapter whenever they find themselves time,” said a city-based CBSE counsellor  .
 
 “If the students revise in their minds, it increases confidence. Oral learning helps a lot. At night when you go to bed, you can revise chapters orally,” Sachdeva added.
 
 Rewarding oneself with a treat or a movie is another interesting approach to quick learning. “No one works without incentive. So, why should the students? They should reward themselves. Decide a day in advance to prepare a topic and then meet in a cafe or at a friend’s house. Discuss the topic and clarify doubts. Conduct a test. This breaks the monotony of being cooped up in the house and makes you more confident about your learning. After learning and revision, allow yourself to watch a movie,” said Ritu Bali principal of AKSIPS school in Sector 41.
 
 According to   from Saupin’s School 32, herbal oil can work wonders for students who are experiencing stress. “I generally suggest some aromatherapy. If one is feeling jittery, using essential herbal oil will surely help one relax. Add a few drops to an eye mask or your pillow, or soak in a calming bath. Even an oil diffuser can be used. Lavender helps people relax and de-stress. This may help battle anxiety and stress levels,” she said.
 
 
 
 
