VIJAYAWADA: As many as 11   were shut down in   on Saturday.

 In a joint operation conducted by food control and revenue department sleuths, it was found that most water plants, which supply drinking water cans, were breaking prescribed rules. The officials noted that almost all water plants were not fit to supply drinking water. The rules which were commonly broken were poor hygienic conditions, no Bureau of Indian Standards licence, no license from local bodies, no labour licence and no licence from revenue department for borewells.
 
 Further, sources said a number of water pipelines are passing through sewerage canals where the lines have developed leakages. Assistant controller of food safety in Krishna district N   was shocked to find that most water plants do not have necessary licences.
 
 “They should get Bureau of Indian Standard (BIS) licence but they are conveniently escaping the routine by using loopholes. They bracket themselves under purified drinking water instead of packaged drinking water. Technicalities of Food Safety Act are aiding them,” said Purnachandra Rao.
 
 Food Safety Act only applies to packaged products and every packaged product should have a label with product description, manufacturer details and also the customer care contact details. However, water plants in the city do not even have licences from local bodies, labour department or even the licence for bore-well from the revenue department.
 
 Only 14 water plants have BIS licence in Vijayawada city. According to an estimate, more than 100 water plants are being operated in Vijayawada alone and about 1,000 plants across Krishna district. Speaking to TOI, Purnachandar Rao said they are booking cases under section 133 CrPC for causing damage to public health. The drinking water that these plants are supplying is not at all safe and can cause many diseases including diarrhoea. Interestingly, the NTR Sujala Sravanti water plants initiated by the state government are also running without  
 
