JAIPUR:   directed the medical department to prepare   for recruitment of 2013.

 The single bench of V S Siradhana issued the order on a petition by Jitender Kumar Sharma and others.
 
 Vigyan Shah, counsel or the petitioner, said, the department denied diploma holders of National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) on the ground that is was not recognized by the state government.
 
 But the petitioners challenged the state government decision on a notification issued in August 30, 2013 amending the recruitment rules by stating that diploma from any Central/state or recognized by the   Paramedical Council were eligible for jobs in Rajasthan. Since the petitioners are diploma holders from a central institute, the court directed the medical department to make fresh merit list taking in to consideration their eligibility. 
 
 
 
 Rajasthan High Court issued notice to additional chief secretary (ACS) of medical and health and director, public health, over the recruitment of general nurse and mid-wife grade II and ANM.
 
 The single bench of Justice V S Siradhana issued notice on a petition by Kanhaya Rai and others.
 
 The petitioners said, the state government in 2013 invited applications for 15,773 GNM and 12,278 posts of ANM. The selection process was delayed due to dispute over bonus marks on experience. But the medical department gave appointment only to 11,259 GNMs and 6,720 ANMs in the first list. After that no second list was announced for the remaining posts.
 
 The medical department on April 9 this year announced fresh recruitment of 4,155 posts nurse grade II. The candidates who were in the previous waiting list challenged the announcement. They demanded that the vacancies were the old ones left unfilled in the 2013. So instead of fresh recruitment, the posts should be filled with the waiting list candidates of the previous merit list.
 
 
 
 
 Rajasthan High Court issued notice to secretary of primary education and commissioner of Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) over shortage of teachers at Rajasthan Netraheen Kalyan Sangh and its application for allotment of land by the JDA to shift the institute from the congested Gangori Bazaar.
 
 A petition by Pankaj Sharma said, the institute has at present 80% visually-challenged students from nursery to Class XII. Sangh has its own library of 1,400 books in brail, including magazines has its mobile library providing books to the sightless, said counsel for the petitioner Pradeep Lata Mathur.
 
 But the school is located at a congested area of Walled City and is functioning on two floors of a three-storey building. Class rooms and hostel are in the second floor while the while the mess is in the third floor which is not friendly for the visually-challenged.
 
 Besides, in case of an emergency, it is quite impossible for ambulance and fire brigade to reach the spot. Since there is no open space or playground, they had to go to the Chugan Stadium crossing the busy roads for sports and games. But the request for a piece of land from JDA is still pending.
 
 
