MUMBAI: The body of a 20-year-old assistant sound recordist was recovered from the rubble of a gutted TV set at Cinevista Studios in   on Sunday, around 13 hours after the fire was doused. The studio was reduced to ashes in a fire on Saturday. 

  On Sunday morning, the family of Gopi Varma approached the fire brigade after he didn’t return home. His phone was also switched off. This prompted firemen to start search operations again and around noon Varma’s body was recovered.
 
 The shooting of TV serials was on when the studio caught fire around 8pm. 
 
 
  
 
 “We are trying to ascertain if any scene shot at the time could be connected to the blaze. The fire broke out in the presence of many people and through their statements, we are trying to zero in on the cause of fire. We are also probing other angles,” said fire officer K V Hiwrale. 
 
 The height of the set where the shooting was taking place was around 30ft and there were several other sets put up on the premises. The fire could have spread, but firemen managed to contain it to the affected set. 
 
 Around 180 people, including TV actors Harshad Chopra and Jennifer Winget, were working on the premises and they escaped unhurt. Firemen had doused the fire around 11pm on Saturday. The police are yet to register a negligence case after the incident. “We are piecing together the details and we will take a decision accordingly,” said Vilash Jadhav, senior inspector of Parksite police station.
 
 The technicians’ association has alleged that fire safety norms had been violated. “Although a huge quantity of wood was used on the set, they had not adopted safety measures. Many union members have complained about it,” said Suresh Gupta of the All India Cine Workers’ Association. MP Kirit Somaiya, who visited the studio on Sunday, said, “Studio and film production management were negligent. No fire safety system was in place.”
 
 B N Tiwari of the   has demanded a compensation of Rs 50 lakh jointly from the studio and the serial producer. The studio management was unavailable for comment. 
 
 
