CHANDIGARH :Despite the Chandigarh police’s crackdown on the   violators, especially the high decibel noise makers, pressure horns and modified silencers continue to blare on the city roads thanks to their easy availability.

 A reality check by the TOI on Wednesday found that the silencers used for modifying bikes, as well as pressure, power and musical horns are easily available in the various auto markets, including Sector-21, 28, 38, Burail market and other mechanics located in Chandigarh.
 
 
  
  
 
 A   which is modified to make loud noise is available for Rs 800 and the price of the same goes up to Rs 1,200 depending upon the quality of the metal used for the silencer. The modified silencer does not even have a single filter to stop excessive noise. On the other hand, a silencer with one/two filters that is modified to make less noise is available at Rs 1,200 to Rs 1,500 in the market.
 
 Meanwhile, the cost of a pressure, power or musical horn ranges between Rs 300 and Rs 500 per set. The cost of a ‘super loud horn’ varies from Rs 750 to Rs 1,000.
 
 Many shopkeepers, on condition of anonymity, confirmed that they sold such products because there was demand for these. “We cannot lose our customers. The motorcyclists riding Bullets use the most modified silencers”, mechanics said.
 
 Interestingly, mechanics in various markets are aware of the traffic regulations around the modified silencers and loud horns, and they caution the buyers about challans.
 
 As per Section 190 (2), Motor Vehicle Act, 1988, using a modified silencer is punishable with a fine of Rs 1,000 for the first time and Rs 2,000 for second or subsequent offences. Same is the case with using pressure, power or musical horns. The motorcycle sporting such modified accessories can also be seized by the police.
 
 According to experts, sound created from a pressure horn or a modified silencer is more than double the permissible limit. Such highdecibel noise on the roads can lead to accidents and damage ear drums as well, they said.
 
 
