MUMBAI: Maharashtra Chief Minister   cleared the file from his office on Wednesday to allow Beed constable   to undergo the gender reassignment surgery.

 
 Salve was employed as a female cop and was a part Beed’s all-women squad. However, later after she realised about underdeveloped male organs in her body, she applied for a  .
 
 
  
 
 The state police headquarters had accused her of concealing facts at the time of recruitment, but the CM wanted to take a holistic view.
 
 Speaking to Mirror, the CM confirmed that he had cleared the file allowing Salve to undergo sex change.
 
  
  
 
 
 The state law and judiciary department had also opined that the case of a Salve, who sought permission to undergo a sex change, continue in service as a male constable. Salve’s case should be taken into account positively and treated as a 'special case', the department had expressed.
 
 Salve, 29, hails from Beed and had joined the force as a female constable in June 2010. She sought permission for a month's leave to undergo sex reassignment surgery in September 2017. The request was rejected by the state police headquarters. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 In November, Salve moved the Bombay High Court and pleaded for permission to be treated as a male in the police constabulary. She then approached Maharashtra Administrative Tribunal
 
 In her plea, she said that the doctors, who examined her, found that she suffers from gender dysphoria, a condition in which emotional and psychological identity are at odds with one's biological sex.
 
 Salve had undergone a detailed medical check-up in JJ Hospital.
 
 The CM had earlier declared that he would clear the proposal and the DG Satish Mathur had asked the state to take a call.
 
 Salve was unavailable for comment on Wednesday.
 
 A similar case was reported a year ago when, for the first time, a transgender was recruited in police service in Tamil Nadu following the Madras High Court intervention. 
 
 K Prithika Yashini, 26, who completed her training as a sub-inspector of police in Tamil Nadu Police Force, was born as a male. He later underwent sex change and applied for the post of sub-inspector as transgender. However, the state police rejected her application and she had to approach the Madras High Court.
 
 
