PUNE: Officials of Maharashtra Airport Development Company Limited ( ) have said that landowners of   plots to be acquired for the proposed new Pune airport at Purandar will receive higher compensation.

 The officials said that most land   to be acquired for the project were not cultivable, hence most villagers will accept compensation packages offered to them.
 
 “We are not saying that there will be no protests. But the state government will negotiate with them and some of the landowners who are protesting will agree. The land which will be acquired for the project has been inspected and most of the plots are not cultivable. There are some plots where the farmers are growing crops but most of the plots are dry or semi-irrigated. Landowners of such plots will receive more in terms of compensation,” a senior MADC official told TOI on Tuesday.
 
 Earlier, Pune district collector Saurabh Rao had said that a government resolution (GR) regarding land acquisition and compensation for the project will be issued soon. MADC authorities said that the GR was expected in the next two weeks. “The government has said that the land acquisition will be by direct purchase. Chief minister   is expected to review the project this week and more announcements are likely. The government will provide funds for the project whenever necessary. We have already received Rs 100 crore,” another official said.
 
 Nearly 3,000 hectares land needs to be acquired from seven villages for the proposed airport. Out of this, 2,367 hectares will be utilised for the project.
 
 “The techno economic feasibility study by   is progressing fast and we have told them to give us a detailed report every month apart from meeting the consultant every week,” the official said.
 
 Landowners, however, are still angry. “We are quiet at the moment. No one has come to meet and talk to us. However if district officials come for talks, we will not let them enter the villages. Though some land here is semi-cultivable, farmers have struggled hard to cultivate the land. They cannot just tell us to leave the land where we are growing vegetables and fruits,” Vikas Memane, a landowner of Pargaon village, said.
 
 
