MOHALI: Failure to choke illegal sand mining has prompted the local administration to identify eight sites susceptible to the activity and order setting up of check posts during nights too.

 The eight spots are Khizrabad, Parol, Majri, Kakrali, Sanoli, Mubarakpur, Nagla, and Chatt villages, said additional deputy commissioner Charandev Singh Mann. “Mining department and block development panchayat officers have been told to prepare a monthly report after carrying out checks and submit it with the deputy commissioner. Letters have been issued to   SSP, mining department and office of the General Manager District Industries Centre to put up check posts, especially during nights, at the areas to check the movement of tipper trucks. Administrative action will be initiated against officers who fail to obey the orders.”
 
 The special task force constituted by the deputy commissioner (DC) to check   has failed to bring about any results. Most of the times the task force returned empty-handed after conducting checks in the area, sources said. The DC had also constituted a team of block-level officers to conduct surprise checks.
 
 Recently, a team of Punjab vigilance following the directions of chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh inspected illegal mining sites in Zirakpur. A team headed by AIG (vigilance) Ashish Kapoor along with mining officer Simarpreet Kaur Dhillon inspected the site in Kakrali and Mubarakpur areas. Kapoor said, “We found that the illegal mining sites have craters as deep as 30ft. We have got measurements done at the spot. Earlier, the craters were 10ft-to-15ft deep. We will submit the detailed report once all the illegal mining sites are covered.”
 
 On March 8, Capt Amarinder Singh had ordered a vigilance inquiry into the alleged nexus between top officials and the mining mafia in Derabassi area, directing departments to shunt out sub-divisional magistrate, deputy superintendent of police (DSP) and station house officer (SHO) pending investigation.
 
 Builders flouts ban orders, dig basements
 
 Private builders continue digging basements at construction sites in Zirakpur in violation of norms, making a mockery of the deputy commissioner’s orders. The DC had recently issued a circular banning levelling of farmland and digging of basements in the area. Officials of the district administration were ordered to check permissions issued for digging work to builders over suspicions of irregularities after the Peer Muchhala Imperial Garden building collapse. Local bodies minister Navjot Singh Sidhu had directed the administration to investigate the illegal constructions in Zirakpur. The directions came after the minister found that many builders are digging basements to lay the foundation of their projects without requisite approvals in place.
 
 
 
 
 Despite 74 FIRs registered in last eight months against illegal mining and seizure of JCBs and tipper trucks, the activity goes on unabated in mining prone areas of the Mohali district. In July last year, deputy commissioner raided the Khizrabad area and found 40 illegal crushers operating from the site. Additional deputy commissioner Charandev Singh Mann said, “Last year, 66 FIRs were registered against illegal miners in the district, while eight FIRs were registered at Derabassi, Kharar and   this year so far. We have been successful in closing down all illegal crushers operating in the district.”
 
 
 
 
 A recent raid conducted by a team led by Mohali additional deputy commissioner Charandev Singh Mann in Kakrali, Mubarakpur, Nagla and Sanauli villages in Derabassi and Zirakpur revealed land owners had leased out their agricultural land to illegal miners. Mann said, “We learnt some farmers have been lured by illegal miners to let out their fields for sand and gravel mining against hefty amounts. To curb this practice, we have directed the police to register FIRs against such land owners.
 
 He said the team has spotted various sites where people have stocked sand and other material of illegal mining and after inspecting the sites, the department officials have been directed to initiate strict action against the culprits.
 
 
 
