NEW DELHI: The   ( ) has identified   to develop 25   to decongest the areas. The civic body has fixed a   of   for development of these facilities. 

 
 
  
 
 Senior officials said that these areas have been selected on the basis of congestion and traffic volume and soon tenders will be floated for the same. The areas include Rajouri Garden, Greater Kailash, Malviya Nagar, Janakpuri, Okhla, New Friends Colony, Nizamuddin etc. They said that the work on tender has been started and it will be awarded to a private contractor within a month. 
 
 “We have floated the tender inviting bidders for the development of automated multilevel car parking facility at four locations as of now and the work for preparing the tender for the remaining areas is in process. The project for developing 25 such facilities is expected to be completed by December 2019,” said a senior SDMC official.
 
 As per the tender, the work is to be completed in a time bound manner within nine months for parking facility after the tender process is over. The official said, “These facilities will have capacity for parking of 100 to 250 cars. The areas have been selected on the basis on congestion and those having major parking issues. The department is monitoring the projects regularly.”
 
 To avoid multiplicity of authorities, SDMC will take over lands from authorities like Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC),   and DUSIB in some areas. “We are in talks with DMRC, DDA and DUSIB to hand over the plot for development of stack parking. After the procedure for transfer of plot is done, tenders will be floated for those areas,” added the official.
 
 There are eight multilevel parking facilities under the jurisdiction of south corporation, out of which only three are functional. These facilities were commissioned ahead of the Commonwealth Games in 2010. However, the multilevel parking facility projects is still stuck. The concept of stack parking has been taken into consideration due to lack of space available in the city and after the multilevel parking concept has failed. 
 
 Meanwhile, the East Delhi Municipal Corporation is planning to hire a private consultant to study the feasibility for development of automated multilevel car parking facilities at 30 locations.
 
