Mumbai: The  , in collaboration with The Times of India, hosted a two-day cultural extravaganza over the weekend to celebrate the 157th birth anniversary of Rabindranath Tagore, which was on May 7. The venue was   in Hiranandani Gardens.

 Over 10,000 Bengalis affiliated to community organizations arrived from Bandra, Juhu, Andheri, Vashi, Colaba and Parel. Sourav Mitra, the association’s chairman, said, “This is the 13th year we are commemorating the Gurudev’s anniversary as part of our collective communities programme, where we invite other Bengali associations to join us. The programme is named Bichitra (variety) as it includes a blend of song, dance and poetry.”
 
 The profound mysticism of Tagore’s ‘Gitanjali’ leaves no one untouched, even those who have only read it in translation. So non-Bengali artistes, including Sangita Nambiar and Ritika Sahani, performed in his honour. “A band from Shivaji Park sang  . They are part of a group that learns Bengali at the Bengal Club,” said Mitra.
 
 Jayati Chakraborty, a renowned singer from Kolkata, drew a full house as did Rajoshi Vidyarthi for her play ‘Chhuttir Paathshala’. Associations from Dadar and Juhu also put up performances, as did Powai Bengali Welfare Association members.
 
 A strong element of Rabindra Jayanti in Powai is ‘Aharey Bangla’, a day-long food court that serves hilsa fish, cutlets, chicken rolls, biryani, chingri malai curry, puchkas and nolen gurer sweets. “Nolen gur is commonly available only in winter, but we managed to source this mithai,” said Mitra.
 
 Food-loving Bengalis looked sheepish given the healthy competition at Saturday’s puchka-eating competition. Winner Austin Phillip had the spectators in splits as he swallowed 15 puchkas in 26 seconds. Aveek Chandra came second by eating as many in 29 seconds. A certain Umang was as good, he ate 15 in 29.5 seconds. Mitra remarked that non-Bengalis had outperformed Bengalis. “It seems as if   is attaining a national craze,” he laughed.
 
 Sunday night was the   competition. The top three winners gobbled 15 rasgullas each. While Omkar Wahlekar completed the task in 1.1 minutes, Miti Chakrabarty took 2.03 minutes and Kaushik Roy 2.13 minutes. 
 
 Bichitra is a precursor to the Times Powai Durgotsav, also organised by Powai Bengali Welfare Association , that follows in September.
 
 
