INDORE: In a bid to   to people ineligible for certain  , the authorities sometimes provides ‘documents’ to the candidates to help them qualify for benefits,  ,   said on Friday.

 While speaking to mediapersons, the minister said that in the state, people under below poverty line (BPL) and Mukhya Mantri Majdur Suraksha Yojana are eligible to avail treatment of diseases including heart and cancer ailment.
 
 “However, to help those who are not eligible for the schemes, we request the district collector to issue BPL card for the person, so he can avail the medical facilities. The card is destroyed later,” Malaiya said.
 
 He said that he always helped the people of his constituency in Damoh district for treatment.
 
 “There is also a scheme ‘Mukhyamantri Sahayata Yojana’ meant for helping the needy. It’s however a different thing that sometime people do not get the fund, needed for treatment” Malaiya said.
 
 Life and death is not in our hand but we tried best to help the needy, said the minister.
 
 The minister was in city to check the progress of various development projects being carried out by   (IDA).
 
 The minister, along with IDA chairman Shankar Lalwani and officials concerned, visited scheme number 140 and took stock of an under-construction high-rise commercial-cum-residential building being developed with an estimated cost of around Rs 50 Crore.
 
 The minister also took stock of a sport complex being developed in 5 acre of land.
 
 The officials informed Mallaiya about construction of a proposed international swimming pool at the same spot. IDA CEO Gautam Singh said their plan was to spend around Rs 12 crore in developing the swimming pool in a year. Besides, around Rs 11 crore will be spent on its equipment.
 
 Mallaiya also visited the under-construction ‘Shahid Park’, which will have a replica of India Gate along with a special gallery to display pictures of martyrs and a stadium to organize cultural and other programmes.
 
 He stressed on the need of proper maintenance of park. Lalwani informed him that once the project is completed, it will be handed over to Border Security Force (BSF).
 
 
