CHENNAI: Driving in and out of the airport is going to be hassle-free soon as   ( ) will conduct a two-day trial of a new traffic pattern on Monday and Tuesday. There will be separate entry and exit points to the domestic and international terminals. 

  
  
 
 A trial of the new traffic pattern will be held between 2pm and 5pm on Monday and Tuesday. 
 
 A senior official of AAI said, “We want to first try it out before implementing it permanently. A survey will be conducted during the trial period on the flow of vehicles. The airport receives around 20,000 to 30,000 cars every day.”
 
 He also said users, including the police, raised a few concerns about the new plan. “The trial will help us undertand how the traffic flow will work on the ground. The results will be studied to find out if any changes need to be done to the traffic pattern” he added. 
 
 As per the plan, the vehicles that come to domestic and international terminals will enter the airport using two entries and will be routed via two new ramps that connect to the flyover in front of the terminals. Cars taking passengers at the   need not drive past the   to exit the airport or to reach parking lot on the ground floor. It will also ease congestion as all vehicles queuing up to drive down the flyover need not take the same route as they will have separate exit routes.
 
 The new pattern is part of a series of changes AAI is planning to bring on the city side of the airport. AAI has set up new check points at the three entry exit points of the airport from GST Road and the roads inside the airport campus have been spruced up with markings to guide cars to the parking lots in front of the domestic and international arrival halls in the ground floor. 
 
 The move was part of the original airport expansion plan and the ramps that link the road to the flyover in front of the terminals were ready a few months ago, but AAI wanted to wait till the metro station was completed and train services started. 
 
 AAI hopes that the new pattern of vehicle flow will help reduce the complaint of cab drivers that they are not able to exit from the airport campus in less than 10 minutes due to congestion. 
 
 
