Margao: Despite staunch denial by the politicians named by it for their involvement in illegalities in the RP-2021,  , the umbrella organisation of several social forums and social organisations, further accused politicians of having failed to protect the interests of the state. They even dared the politicians to move the courts against them.

 Speaking to TOI, Abhijit  , who is part of the anti-PDA movement, said that the statements made by the politicians in their defence only amounted to “an admission that they are beneficiaries of RP-2021.”
 
 “This explains their complete political blindness. They are blind to what is going to happen to Goa, blind to their own responsibilities as peoples’ representatives and blinded by the profits they are going to make through RP-2021. That is why they are all silent. What are they doing about all the other huge violations we have pointed out to when they are duty-bound to protect the state from destruction?” Prabhudessai questioned. “When those who are supposed to represent the people betray them instead, it is a higher form of corruption,” he said. 
 
 Goencho Avaaz, at its largely attended public meeting at   on Friday, had named 14 politicians of having benefitted by changing large tracts of land into settlement zones in various parts of Goa, as reflected in RP-2021. In response, almost all the politicians, including Digambar Kamat, Luizinho Faleiro, Pandurang Madkaikar and Glenn Ticlo, had refuted the allegations.
 
 When asked about the statements by some politicians that they would file defamatory proceedings against Goencho Avaaz, Prabhudessai said, “We are prepared for it. In fact, we would love to see them in court. There is much more to be dug out,” he said. 
 
 Responding to criticism over their silence about the issue of conversions of areas owned by the Church, Prabhudessai accused “vested interests’ of leveling such charges. “This is an attempt by the same set of people who are going to make money by destroying our land. It is an attempt to interfere with the social movement. Historically, the Church’s role in defending Goa from complete destruction and sell out is remarkable. The attack on the Church is because it is defending Goa from these vested interests,” he said. 
 
 
