VADODARA: The rustication row that has hit the Institute of Leadership and Governance (ILG) is growing bigger with each passing day at M S University. 

 A day after the institute softened its stance saying that it is ready to give another chance to two students, who have alleged that they have been rusticated for meeting JNU leader Kanhaiya Kumar during a recent study tour, Vidyarthi Vikas Sangh (VVS) – a right-wing student outfit staged protest at university head office demanding that the students should not be taken back under any circumstances. 
 
 VVS which has its roots in the   (ABVP) has also issued a warning to dalit leader and Vadgam MLA Jignesh Mevani to stay away from the issue or face consequences. 
 
 “If Mevani comes to Vadodara to vitiate peace in the city by making   as a tool, we will intensify our stir and MSU will be solely responsible for this situation,” VVS president Jayesh Balai. VVS members carrying placards of Mevani’s photo with the stating ‘No entry in Vadodara’ made the representation, said. 
 
 VVS has dubbed the meeting of ILG students with Kanhaiya Kumar as an ‘anti-national activity. The outfit is now alleging that the institute had illegally admitted the two students -   and Manisha Solanki – who if re-admitted will further spoil the atmosphere at the campus. 
 
 Sutariya on the other hand termed VVS as an extremist organisation whose presence is vitiating the academic environment at the campus. 
 
 “Doesn’t this organisation want that youth of Gujarat get a chance to study? What are they trying to achieve from this protest?” said Sutariya, who made more attempts to showcase his proximity with Mevani by sharing old pictures of him with the dalit leader. 
 
 “We have not seen any dreams of converting MSU into JNU but we don’t want to see a day when MSU turns into BHU,” he said. 
 
 Former president of   (NSUI) Hitesh Desai also jumped in the controversy demanding that MSU vice-chancellor professor Parimal Vyas should re-admit the students and instead take action against those officials of ILG who wrongly rusticated the students. 
 
 “If ILG is arguing that it is because of non-payment of fees that the students were discontinued from the programmes, then how did the students attend the studies for so many months and also took part in the study tour,” he said, threatening that he too will join the stir. 
 
 
