The latest episode of   starts with Parmeet lying to Simmi about an emergency at the factory and rushing for it. Ashok and   tell Preeti not be scared as they will be around. 

 Ashok says Param's only weakness is women and now Preeti will seduce him and they will make a video of it. They will blackmail   and ask him to return Aliya’s video in exchange. Ishita tells Ashok she would have never taken this step, had   been in his senses. 
 
 Simmi invites the pandit to fix Raman and Mihika's wedding date. Raman says they will get married in the next 2-3 days. Mihika agrees with him. Pihu hears them and runs towards her room. 
 
 Param enters the hotel room and Preeti seduces him. She fakes a story about their company offering them a scheme. Param asks her about the scheme. She makes a drink for him. Preeti signals Ishita and she starts flirting with him. Param asks he needs ice for the drink and goes to get it. 
 
 However, he shocks Ishita and Ashok by pulling the curtain in which they are hiding. He snatches the phone in which they were filming their act and breaks it. He calls their plan outdated.
 
 Param tells Ishita that he really likes how she doesn't give up. Ishita tells him she has already signed the divorce papers, then why he is troubling Aliya. He says he will not return till Raman and Mihika get married.
 
 Aliya looks for Ishita and is worried. She goes to Ishita’s house and asks Kiran about her. The latter informs her that she is out. Ishita gets Aaliya's call and says she has something important to discuss. 
 
 Raman tries to console a crying Pihu but she asks him why is he marrying Mihika. He says so that she gets a mom. Mihika comes with Pihu's favourite Pasta and tries to feed her. But she gets angry and pushes her. Raman loses his temper on Pihu for this.
 
 Mihika tells him that she will handle Pihu all by herself and his behaviour can make her even more rebellious. Aliya informs Ishita and Ashok about Raman marrying Mihika in next two three days.
 
 Ashok gets angry and tells Ishita that it is the time Raman should know all the truth. He tells her he should know the sacrifices she has done for him and his kids. Ashok shouts and goes in the Bhalla house. 
 
  
  
 Ashok tells Raman he can’t marry Mihika and that he will back out as an investor if he does so. Simmi interrupts and says he can’t do this according to their contract. He hands over a contract file to him. Raman asks Ashok to get out. 
 
 Pihu refuses to have food and this makes Simmi angry with her. Mihika walks in and stops her, she talks to Pihu and agrees to bring Ishita back into the house. 
 
 Neelu calls Ishita to the Bhalla house and Ishita feeds Pihu. Amma looks on and gets teary eyed. Ishita thanks Mihika for calling her to meet her children. Raman comes and asks why Ishita is in their house. 
 
 Mihika tells him she had called her as Pihu wasn't having food. A man gets jewellery parcel for Mihika as Ishita is about to leave, Mihika stops her. She shows rings to the family. Mihika says that since they will get married in next few days, she thought of getting engaged at home. Romi gets angry, but Adi stops him. Ishita gets emotional and looks at Raman. 
  
 
