GURUGRAM:  , resident of  , has plenty of reason to celebrate after scaling  , the world’s third highest peak, on May 20.

  Kadian was one of a group of five, including expedition leader Nirmal Kumar, who reached the summit at 8.15 am Nepal time, on May 20. The second group, four strong, reached the top a day later.
 
  Kadian, 30, was among a 15-men Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited ( ) team, made up of 12 mountaineers and three base-camp members, including a doctor. Besides Kadian and Kumar, the first summiteers were Pankaj Joshi, Monty Rajkhowa and Palkesh G Kalma. 
 
 The expedition was flagged off by Dharmendra Pradhan, union minister for petroleum and natural gas, on April 2.
 
  Kangchenjunga straddles Nepal and India, falling in the state of Sikkim this side of the border. At a height of 8,586 metres (28,169 feet) above sea level, it sits behind Everest, in the Himalayas, and K2 ( ), in the Karakoram range, in the list of the world’s tallest mountains. Kadian will return home on June 2. He is, naturally, delighted with his accomplishment. An assistant executive engineer with ONGC, he spoke of having to sacrifice precious time spent with his two-year-old son, Hridaan. “I want to dedicate this achievement to my son, because I haven’t been able to spend time with him, since I have been training for this expedition for the last one year,” Kadian said through his brother-in-law.
 
  “Now I want to relax at home, and spend as much time as possible with my family.” The team, which took the south-eastern route to the top, received the best of preparation from Indian Mountaineering Federation (IMF) specialists, under the mentorship of Col H S Chauhan, president, IMF. Incidentally, this is the second year that ONGC has organised an expedition, following its 2017 trek to the roof of the world (Everest). Wg Cdr (Retd) Amit Chowdhury, a recipient of the Tenzing Norgay national adventure award (2014) who has led or been part of more than 20 Himalayan expeditions, had words of praise for the team members.
 
  “Hats of these guys, they’ve done really well,” said Chowdhury. “And they’re very down-to-earth and humble people, not the glory seekers we often come across!
 
  “They’ve climbed mountains like Stok Kangri in winter, so have obviously been very methodical in their preparation, and gone through the whole training process over two-three years.”
 
 
