KOLHAPUR: The citizens are likely to face up to 20% hike in water tax from next year. 

 The   (MWRRA) has hiked the charges levied on the bulk water lifted from rivers and dams for use of civic bodies by 20%. The authority has also increased the charges for lifted water supplied to commercial and industrial users by around Rs 50%. 
 
 In an order passed on Friday, the authority has fixed the new charges at Rs 50 paise per 1,000 litres of water lifted. At present, the irrigation department charges Rs 42 paise per 1,000 litres. 
 
 Every year, the water resources department issues bills of over Rs 5 crore to the   (KMC). With the increase in the charges, the   will now have to pay another Rs 1 crore more. Already, the KMC has dues of over Rs 20 crore to be paid to the water resources department for the period of last 10 to 12 years.
 
 The KMC authorities claimed that the citizens will have to pay more water tax if the authorities are unable to garner the funds required to pay the annual charges. Every year, the water resources department issues public notice threatening to stop lifting of the water from   river and holding the KMC responsible for the consequences caused after the water cuts. 
 
 The KMC lifts around 120 million litres of water every day and the water lifting schemes are designed to provide 135 litres of water to every person from the city.
 
 A senior KMC official, requesting anonymity, said, “We will know the impact of the hike in water charges only after we get the next monthly bill from department. If we find that the hike results in nominal increase in the overall bill amount, then the citizens will not have to worry much. However, in case the hike is significantly high, we will have to compensate the amount by increasing the water taxes.” 
 
 The official, however, clarified that the water tax will not be increased in proportion to the hike made by the authority. Since there is 50% increase in the commercial and industrial use of the water lifted by the KMC, the water tax to be paid by them will also be increased from next financial year. The budget will be presented next month. Out of total water lifted by the KMC, 3.5% is supplied for commercial and industrial use while rest is supplied for drinking purpose. 
 
 The regulatory authority has increased the water lifting fares after the gap of seven years citing inflation of around 63% during the intervening period. During these years, the KMC has increased the water tax once in 2013 by around 25% in addition to 10% of sewage management tax. However, the civic body faced severe anger from the public. 
 
 The KMC authorities are currently in dispute with water resources department officials over the water lifting rates. The KMC claims that since they have their own barrage/dam at  , they should be charged much less. The authorities claim that as per the 2011 order, the KMC should be charged Rs 7 paise per 1,000 litre and not Rs 42 paise per 1,000 litre. 
 
 On other hand, the irrigation authorities claim that the size of the dam does not help KMC to store water required every day owing to its low capacity and therefore, the water from the dam needs to be released frequently. 
 
 “We are paying Rs 3 crore to Rs 3.5 crore every year towards the bills issued by the irrigation department. We have tabled another proposal to get concession in the water usage charges during monsoon season as the KMC do not have to rely on the water from the dam,” said the official.
 
 The KMC authorities claimed that huge expenses are made on maintaining the water supply network. Every year, the civic administration faces deficit of Rs 7 crore to Rs 10 crore owing to higher expenses and lesser returns from water tax. The KMC is planning to bring down transmission losses to ensure that water supply increases and there is a rise in revenue collection. 
 
 
