CHANDIGARH: Observing major construction inside the buildings of   secretariat and assembly at  , which seems to be a major obstacle to kick-off heritage conservation work in both of these buildings of the UNESCO’s heritage site, senior officers of the Chandigarh administration and Haryana government are all set to hold meeting in a couple of days. Chandigarh administration has already received the message of meeting last week from the Haryana government in this regard, following which they have prepared all the concerned details regarding the crucial works and points to be discussed in the meeting.

 Sources in the Chandigarh administration has confirmed that since the hired Mumbai-based private architecture firm has already submitted the conservation plans of all the buildings of the UNESCO’s heritage site, it needs to solve all the buildings-related issues with the concerned stakeholder before initiating the tender process to start the conservation works there.
 
 “Since we have already held meetings with the representatives of the   government and the speaker of the Punjab assembly in the past, the Punjab government has already given its approval to start the heritage conservation works in their buildings —Punjab secretariat and Punjab assembly. Now, detailed discussion with Haryana is required to take their consent too after discussing each and every points related to their buildings. After that the   will start the tender process of the conservation works in such buildings,” said sources in the building.
 
 “The issues related to the changes in the buildings, alterations, financial issues and other works will be discussed between both of the authorities. How to remove the additional construction inside the buildings is also a crucial issue to be discussed in the meeting. From Haryana side, either chief secretary or additional chief secretary of the state will be there in the meeting,” revealed an official.
 
 In the recent past, the engineering department of the Chandigarh administration has also served the notice to the Haryana for making an additional construction inside the heritage building. After that the construction was stopped by the state government. Though, the buildings of the Capitol Complex belong to UT’s territory, UT will also seek some financial help from the state government.
 
 
