
 
 The episode of   with   accusing Simonika.   says how she has always tried to protect Abhi. She recalls every incident when   was in trouble and she helped him.
 
 Pragya doesn’t believe her. Simonika asks her to trust her. She goes inside and says she is Simmi. The woman says   left her,l and asks will she also leave her. Simonika says she will not leave her. Simonika says she will have to go from there for few days and tells about her boss. Simonika pretends to be nice with her and says she will ask neighbour to cook food for her and asks her to take care of herself.
 
 She tells that she took her report to doctor and got medicine for her.Pragya overhears this and falls in her trap. Simonika says that the woman has Alzheimer and tells that her younger daughter Rimmi eloped with a guy. Pragya further says that the doctor had said that Simonika was married.
 
 Simonika says she is not married and can’t leave her mother. Pragya says whenever Abhi was attacked, she was near him.
 
 Simonika acts nice and says that she has always helped them. But further says that if Pragya doesn't believe her, she is fine in coming to the police station. 
 
 Pragya says sorry and that she doubted on Simonika because of Dr.J Jyoti She says may be her lookalike went to Jyoti’s clinic and hence the doctor got confused.
 
 Simonika asks her to sit and gets water for her. Pragya apologises to her and goes. Simonika smirks. Later, Simonika recalls Doctor suspecting her and Pragya telling that Disha is from Haryana. She also thinks of how she saw Pragya following her. The old woman comes and asks if she has fooled her boss. Simonika calls her mother in law.
 
 Pragya comes home and tells Abhi that she went to drop Simonika. Abhi reminds of her promise and gets romantic with her. He hides with Pragya seeing Dasi. Dasi comes searching Pragya and goes. He takes her to the staff room and says he asked the staff not to disturb them. They romance with each other. He tries to kiss her when Dasi comes there. Pragya gets shy and goes away. She sees someone hiding and sees Sangram. Sangram says that his dhoti is stuck. Pragya thinks if she is doubting him unnecessarily.
 
 Purab, Disha, Dadi and Dasi plan a party. Pragya and Dasi say that it Abhi's birthday the next day. Sangram hears them and thinks he will be happy to see Disha. Purab and family decide to surprise Abhi
 
 Simonika and Dushyant’s mother drink alcohol. Dushyant’s mother says that they have fooled Pragya. Sangram calls Simonika and tells about Abhi’s birthday party. The family continues to plan for Abhi's surprise.
 
 
