The beautiful thing about love is that it shatters all myths and finds you in circumstances when you expect it the least. Love can surprise you, humble you and even heal you.   was 60 when he lost his wife in an accident. Nine years later, he is remarried and is deeply in love. 
“She is a vegetarian, so I too gave up on meat,” says the 69-year-old Satyanarayan Kapoor, trying to dismiss the fact that it was for love. “No, it’s like, when you live together your habits become same, so I did not insist,” he quickly adds, conscious of sounding cheesy. His wife   smiles, after all, she too has found love again.
 At 65, when other sexagenerians would be thinking about geriatric care, here she was gushing over the fact that her husband gave up meat for her. Married to each other in 2013, both Satyanarayan and Indira had been leading a ‘single’ life for long, as both had lost their respective spouses. Satyanarayan lost his first wife to an accident in 2009, while Indira lost her first husband early in her marriage. It was only in 2013, when their bones turned brittle, and hair turned grey, did they take the bold step of remarrying and lead a life together. 
 So, how did it all start? “After my wife passed away, for four years I was living alone. It was depressing as my children stayed in different places. At one point I just wanted to leave everything and embrace death. That’s when my elder daughter got worried about my mental health and decided that I needed to find a companion,” explains Satyanarayan.
 With encouragement from family, Satyanarayan agreed to look for a companion. But finding love in your sixties is not easy, and any attempt to find it is usually frowned upon. But Satyanarayan decided to take the leap. 
 “I joined a group called  , a place where people who have been widowed or separated with their partners for years seek to find a companion. After attending two sessions with the group, I found Indira,” he 
 recounts. 
 Indira and Satyanaran have been married for five years now and have the full support of their family, a privilege not many enjoy when they attempt to find love at such an age. 
 Thodu Needa was started in 2010 by NM Rajeshwari, with an aim to help ageing people find a partner in order to overcome loneliness. 
 As of 2016, 8.6 per cent of India’s population is over the age of 60, of which 8.2 per cent are men and 9 per cent are women. 
 And while courtship maybe a stigmatised topic for senior citizens, Rajeswari maintains that in their quarterly meetings, over 400 senior citizens turn up. “It’s here that they get a chance to share their problems, and talk to people of their age group. Else it’s solitary living for most single senior citizens. Then if they find someone they like enough to spend their life with, we encourage them to discuss with their families,” adds Rajeshwari.
 Through Thodu Needa, Rajeshwari got 125 couples hooked, but very few of these stories had support from their families.  , 63, is one of the few people who managed to do so without any property dispute.
 “Property and possessiveness were two major issues I faced from my children. So both my wife and I had discussions for over eight months about all these matters and decided to marry when it was resolved,” says Rajagopal.
 
 
  
 If the idea of recovering from the death of spouse and finding the will to remarry in your old age is daunting enough, the process is even harder for women. 
 “It’s worse for women as they are severely dominated by their families. These women belong to an era when they were always kept at homes and were never allowed to venture out without their families. After their children grow up, they are left behind to fend for themselves, with no social networks or work friends. It can get depressing for women,” adds Rajeswari, who herself lead a single life for years before finding her own match at these meetings.
 So be it 16 or 60, there is really no age to celebrate love.
 
