The mercury has been soaring in Agra with day temperatures crossing the 40 degree celsius mark, several times, in the past one week. Most   parents across Agra say that they cannot even think of keeping their pets without the AC in this heat. Pets get more prone to heat strokes in this weather because of their fur. Talking about the steps they take to keep their pets cool in the  , pet parents say, “Everything, right from their food and diet to their grooming, is changed in this weather.” There are various ways to make your furry friend enjoy the summer– timely walks, visits to doctor and salons. These dog parents in Agra show us how.
 
 
 Deepali Kaushal, a resident of Baluganj, who has a five-month-old German Shephard, says, “Jinnie is an outdoor dog. We have never tied her with a leash and she loves to stay in the garden. But since it is extremely hot outside, we take her inside after eight in the morning and she stays in an air-conditioned room. She is again allowed to go out in the evening when it is not that hot. We take special care of her diet in summers. We prevent feeding her packaged food and stick to home-cooked meals. Since she suffered dehydration two months back, we take extra care to keep her hydrated. We give her cold milk and curd frequently during the day. We also give her a glucose solution every evening. As far as her grooming is concerned, we give her bath once every week. As it is the time when furry animals get ticks frequently, we use an anti-tick shampoo which is menthol based.”
 
 
  
  Amit David feeds buttermilk to his dog Goofy
 
 
 Amit David, a resident of  , says, “Goofy (his St. Bernard) has two meals a day and in the afternoon, he keeps on munching fresh fruits and drinks a lot of water. Since he is a big dog, his first meal includes boiled chicken (that includes bones) and sometimes, we give him veggies with chicken. He is very choosy and doesn’t like veggies much but we make sure to include veggies in at least one of his meals a day. At times, we give him butter and other energy drinks, too, depending on his mood. In summers, we make sure to give him only home-cooked food. We have banned packaged food completely for him.”
 
 
  
  Bingo, Agra resident Ranjini Menon’s dog, has a daily dose of fresh fruits in summers
 
 
 Ranjini Menon Chaturvedi, a homemaker and resident of Sikandra, has a Lhasa Apso which is originally from  . She says, “It takes an extra effort to take care of my pet, Bingo, in summer as she is not used to such hot temperature. Since we don’t have good pet salons in Agra, I take her to Delhi every once in a while. She also visits a doctor in Delhi. For grooming, we take care that she’s given anti-tick treatment. We dry her hair with hair dryer every time she takes a bath. For walks, we only take her outside after sunset, when it’s not too hot.” Ranjini adds, “Bingo is a vegetarian dog and loves her veggies and fruits. Her summer delights include cucumber, banana and bottle gourd. Also, she’s given cold milk with curd which is good for her stomach. We give her cold water but not from refrigerator. We have kept a separate earthen pot for her.”
 
 
  
  Summer splash: Helen James gives a bath to her dog Oddy
 
 
 Helen James, a student of St John’s College and a resident of Pushpanjali Puram, Phase 1, has a Labrador. She says, “Oddy is a water baby and loves to bathe in summer. We give him bath at least twice a week. He’s usually hyperactive and eagerly waits for his walks. Due to the heat, we take him for walks during the morning hours. We have to wake up early at around 5am to take him for his walks and if we don’t, he makes sure, with all his barking and running around, that everyone is up. He drinks a lot of water and has a separate fan for himself.”
 
 
 
