MUMBAI: A proposed mega   project in  , which was on the ‘priority list’ of MoUs to be signed during the Magnetic Maharashtra investor summit, is likely to be put on the back burner following a meeting between   president   and chief minister  .

 Thackeray was adamant that the Rs 1.5 lakh crore project, at Nanar in Rajapur taluka about 400 km from the city, would not be allowed to come up against the wishes of the locals. The Shiv Sena chief was accompanied by a delegation of local leaders and fishermen. 
 
  Fadnavis assured Thackeray that the refinery would not be forced on local villagers. The meeting at the chief minister’s official residence was the first for Fadnavis and Thackeray after the Shiv Sena announced the breaking of the alliance for the next state assembly polls. 
 
 With former CM Narayan Rane, a Shiv Sena baiter with a sizeable following in the coastal region, set to launch a stir against the controversial   under the flag of his newly launched Maharashtra Swabhiman Paksha, the Shiv Sena must have felt the heat on the issue.
 
 “No memorandum of understanding (MoU) for the project has been signed yet. My stand is clear. The project will not be imposed on the locals in any circumstances,” said industries minister Subhash Desai, who is from the Shiv Sena. 
 
 Thackeray said the refinery project was a question of life and death for the people of the  . 
 
 “I have told Fadnavis that Shiv Sena would be with the people of Konkan and we would not allow the project when people are against it,” he said.
 
 The project was announced by the Centre in 2015 and involves setting up one of the world’s largest refinery complexes. The state government would have to acquire 14,000 acres of land for the project, which is to be set up by a consortium of oil companies, said sources.
 
 Locals have been staging angry demonstrations in and around Nanar for nearly a month now. They fear that the gigantic project might affect the cultivation of the world famous Deogad Alphonso mango, which is unique to the region.
 
 
