AGRA/BAREILLY: UP DGP Om   on Friday said that police are probing whether there is a criminal angel to the extortion messages being received by MLAs on WhatsApp or is it just a planned mischief.
 
  “Apart from MLAs in UP, threats have been issued to people in Delhi, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. We are in touch with the Intelligence Bureau and other central agencies. We have lodged 22 FIRs for the threats issued to our legislators,’’ Singh, who was in  , said.
  
  The DGP said that UP Police has a strong network with CBI and ED. “Our investigators of the rank of sub-inspector, inspector and deputy superintendent of police will be sent to the CBI academy in July for training. The biggest challenge for us is to conduct the training of 34,000 new constables. This will be the first time when 34,000 constable recruits will be given training at the same time in different parts of the state. They will also be sent to a para-military institute for training. As there are a large number of vacancies in our department, these new recruits will only strengthen our system. Besides, 41000 new recruitments will be made by early next year,’’ said Singh. 
  
  Meanwhile, an extortion letter sent via speed post to BJP MLA from   came to light on Friday. The hand-written letter sent to Devendar Singh Rajput, read, “Don’t take this letter lightly. Cough up Rs 5 lakh in next 10 days or on the 11th day we will hurt your family.”
  
 The letter was written on May 5, 2018 and it was dispatched from Jaswant Nagar on May 19. The MLA received it on Tuesday.
  
  “I receive scores of letters every day. Today while I was going through a bunch of documents, I came across the extortion letter. My colleagues informed me that a similar kind of extortion message on WhatsApp has been sent to 14 BJP MLAs,” the MLA said, adding that he will take a copy of the note to the Kasganj SSP.
  
  Meanwhile, DIG Piyush Srivastava, the acting SSP of Kasganj, said, “I’m yet to receive the letter. Once the MLA gives us a written complaint, we will act accordingly.”
