KOLKATA: A fire broke out at   (CNMC) and Hospital around 5pm on Thursday, triggering panic among patients and their families. The incident took place in the hospital’s seven-storeyed   building.

 Firefighters suspect a lit cigarette butt thrown on a heap of garbage beside an abandoned toilet near the male medicine ward on the second floor started the fire.
 
 Though it was controlled within 30 minutes, the incident raised question about patients’ safety in hospitals.
 
 The ward had around 50 patients at the time of the incident. As smoke billowed out, patients who could walk on their own rushed down. The ones who required assistance were helped out by relatives and hospital staffers.
 
 Biswajit Naskar, a thalassaemia patient, said, “I heard people screaming that a fire had broken out. I was scared. The nurse on duty asked me not to panic and escorted me out of the building.”
 
 Even before the fire tenders arrived, security guards jumped in to douse the flames with the help of hospital staff members. PWD also disconnected power supply to the second floor to prevent any short circuit. They ensured that the fire did not spread.
 
 “My wife was in the female medicine ward on the fourth floor. We were scared the fire might spread to the upper floors,” said  , whose wife was admitted at the hospital. “However, the doctors and nurses assured us that the fire was small and helped me bring her down.” Two fire tenders were pressed into service to douse the fire.
 
 This is the second such incident that the hospital witnessed in the past seven months. On July 29 last year, a fire broke out at the maternity ward .
 
 Medical superintendent and vice-principal at the hospital Dr   said, “A team effort and the firefighting infrastructure installed in the hospital ensured that the blaze was contained quickly. It did not cause any casualty or major damage.”
 
 The fifth floor of the building houses cardiac patients. Prompt action by the hospital staff ensured that smoke could not reach the floor. Patients from the ward were shifted to the floors above and the ground floor for some time.
 
