Every year, before the monsoon kicks off, Goekars celebrate the  , where they stock up on food items for the rains. It's an age-old tradition passed down by our ancestors, but one that still resonates with the younger generation today.
 
  'MANY YOUNGSTERS BUY THE DRY FISH TO TAKE IT ABROAD WITH THEM'
  Most of these local businesses that put up stalls at the fair go back decades, and were passed down generations.
  “My great-great-grandmother started this business and would come for every   to sell dry fish. Just like back then, today too there is a great demand for these among  ,”
  says Antonette Fernanades, a dry fish vendor from Pedda  , and the third generation member of the family.
  Prawns, kite fish (solle), and dry Mackral are popular among buyers, say the vendors.
  “People come to the market, as there will be no fish during the monsoon season," says another dry fish vendor at the fair, Fatima Fernandes. She adds how the fish is now also finding favour with youngsters heading abroad. "They buy it to savour the taste of Goan food while away.”
  Many youngsters accompany their parents to buy the dry fish at the feast.
  “The dry fish available at the feast fair is fresh, and you don’t get the same quality in the market. More importantly, people are familiar with the vendors and trust them.”
  Shaleen Fernandes, a young mother from  , tells us, “It’s the upbringing that has led us to continue to buy this produce today. My grandmother used to give us these when we were kids. We use the dry fish while making curry and sometimes even fry it.” She adds, "Most importantly, I want my small children to know about our culinary traditions and to know the taste of Goan food.”
  
  'The essence of the feast is kept alive by buying these special sweets for the family'
  The sweet stalls are another bestseller at the fair. They sells laddoos, jalebis, and halwa which people just can't get enough of.
  Janet Rebello, a youngster in her late 20s, looks forward to the feast just for this. “I am very fond of the feast sweets, especially laddoos and jalebis."
  “It is a tradition and the essence of the feast is kept alive by buying these special sweets for the family,” says Celina Fernandes, from Carmona.
  
  'Even the tourists are fascinated with the rich Goan culture'
  Josepha Sousa has been selling the local dovollo (coconut shell ladle) - used to make curry - at the fair for the past 40 years. “My father would sell these, and after learning how to make them from him, I started doing the same. The dovollas are popular among the Goans, of course, but even the tourists are fascinated with the rich Goan culture,” he tells us.
  These dovelles are not found in the market today, and only sold at this fair. They are now seen and used for various Goan functions.
  Also sold at the fair are earthen pots and other vessels made from mud.
  Bernadine Valles, an earthen pots vendor from Succorro-Porvorim, who has been selling them for 20 years, says, “The older people come to buy the earthen pots, while the youngsters
  come to buy decorative items and millher (the earthen piggy bank).”
