CHANDIGARH: Rose Chanchal, a class XII student from Government Girls Model Senior   in Sector 20, carries her mother’s handkerchief to the examination hall. In case you are wondering why, then here’s the clarification. She considers the handkerchief to be her ‘lucky charm’. She believes if she carries it with her, it will help her to overcome anxiety and write her papers well. “My mother gave it to me when I was in Class IX and she wrote my initials on it. I always carry it to the examination hall. I am not sure if what I think is true or not

 but I did well in all the exams whenever I have carried this handkerchief,” she smiled.
 
 Like Rose, there are many students who believe in carrying good lucky charms to the examination hall. As we all know, board students are under a lot of pressure and suffer from nervousness in the exam hall. A lot of them believe that if they have their good luck charm, it will make them feel confident.
 
 From carrying pens, a photograph of God, to wearing the favourite wristwatch, students carry their good luck charms with them to the examination centre. Some even seek blessing of a particular family member or speak to that person before exam.
 
 Though the counsellors believe that these are ‘only myths’, they are in no mood to oppose. “The students can carry their lucky charms with them if the lucky charms make them feel confident and relaxed,” said the city-based counsellors.
 
 Raghav Sharma, a class X student of Saupin’s School in Sector 32, said, “I take my grandfather’s blessings before appearing for any examination.” His grandfather also ensures he doesn’t go anywhere as he knows Raghav will seek his blessing before going to the examination centre. That is not all. Raghav also carries a pen gifted especially by his grandfather. “My grandfather gives me a pen in the morning of the exam and I write my exam with that pen only,” he said.
 
 Another student from the school   said, “When someone from my family accompanies me to the examination hall, it acts as a morale boosting. My family is my lucky charm.”
 
 For Rose’s friend Shikha Chaudhary, her sister is her ‘good luck charm.’ “She is in Delhi but I call her up before I appear for any paper. She is my biggest support. Even on bad days, I speak to her. She lifts my spirits. I have already told her not keep her mobile phone on silent as I would be calling her in the morning before my exams,” said Shikha.
 
 Class XII government school student, Sudhir Rana, who lives in Sector 45, said, “I write Om on the top right of my answer sheet as it gives me confidence that I will score well. I don’t know how true it is but it is my belief.”
 
 Naveen Dixit, a Class X student living in Sector 22 Chandigarh, considers his wristwatch to be his lucky charm. He said, “When my elder brother finished his school two years ago he gifted me his wristwatch. This watch was lucky for him too. Initially, I did not believe in this but then I tested it and felt that the watch has been lucky for me too. Also, I avoid wearing black on all special occasions, even examination” he said.
 
 While the students appearing for boards are all set to carry their lucky charms to the examination hall, counsellors are making it clear that nothing works better than hardwork.
 
 Prabhjot Kaur, a citybased counsellor from a government school in  , said, “I don’t want to discourage the children and say that these lucky charms will not help them in the exam. If they feel confident about themselves when they carry these lucky charms, then they can carry it. But I tell them that there is no substitute for hard work. Recently, I was telling my students that if you have not worked hard and have not studied throughout the year then offering water to god will also not help to crack the examination.” Good luck to board students.
 
 
