MUMBAI: Municipal commissioner Ajoy Mehta’s probe report on the   that claimed 14 lives says the   compound owners allotted   and   not just covered area but also open terrace area, which “was later on unauthorisedly allowed to be covered by the restaurant owners”.

 According to the report submitted to CM Devendra Fadnavis on Thursday, the mill compound owners “though aware that the open terrace area cannot be used for such activity (for eateries) but have allotted/entered into the agreement for use of open area”. This is one of the main reasons the report has proposed criminal action against the mill compound owners. 
 
 Under the Development Control Rules (DCR), whenever a building is constructed, the plan requires the rooftop or terrace to be kept open. Only weather sheds can be constructed for monsoon after obtaining permissions from the planning authority. Plans sanctioned by the civic body don’t permit any commercial activity of running a restaurant on the rooftop. “There are no provisions in the DCR to permit a rooftop to be enclosed or exploited for commercial use,” said senior advocate Ram Apte. 
 
 The BMC report says the owners, Ramesh Gowani and Ravi Bhandari, allotted the whole premises to Royal Traders, in which Gowani is a partner. Royal Traders leased out spaces to others, including Mojo's and 1Above. The BMC investigation team has accessed a letter of intent that was issued by Royal Traders on March 7, 2017 to Tirupati Hospitality, which ran Mojo’s (licensee), including a covered area of 3035.22 sq feet and an adjoining area of 11,000 sq ft. The leave and license agreement with Sigrid Ospitalita, which ran 1Above, includes 1,730 sq ft carpet area and an adjoining area of 6,762 sq ft carpet area to be used “for the purpose of restaurant and bar”. 
 
 Mehta told TOI: “We went through the agreements and they clearly show that the open space was given to both restaurants on leave and license basis. This by itself was fundamentally illegal. One cannot be signing an agreement for giving out a space which has been marked as a terrace as per the building plan. Therefore the owners were fully aware and actively connived in the illegality.”
 
 
