BHOPAL: The lone survivor of a Maoist attack, in which 17 securitymen men were killed, is left to fend for himself.  , a former   jawan from MP’s  , had his abdomen riddled by seven bullets, spilling his intestines, which are still held in check by an external pouch. He fights his daily agony bravely but is bitter that The Centre hasn’t kept its promise.

 
 
 “I feel like the living dead. This is no life,” he said on Tuesday. Tomar hails from Tarmasa village, which is home to at least14 martyrs. “Martyrdom isin our blood,” he said. The most recent is ASI Ramkishan Singh Tomar, who was killed when Maoists blew up a mine-protected vehicle in   on March13.
 
 Tomar says the government needs to take a close look at how it treats those injured in combat. “What is the meaning of mybeing alive like this? I am no different from my buddies who were killed. I am not able to do anything for my family. I am not saying that I was not provided treatment, but that is notenough. I had to make rounds of AIIMS and homes of political leaders for my treatment. How can this be encouraging for others who are ready tolaydown their livesfor thecountry?” he told mediapersons at his village.
 
 “Union minister   had promised me, when I met him, that Rs 5 lakh would be given to me and my application would be sent to the government for further assistance. In July, it will be two years since he made the promise but nothing has happened. Mere assurances won’t help,” he said. “What is the difference between me and a martyr? The behaviour of the government makes me feel as if they are doing it by force. It is meaningless when you come dressed and talk for two minutes and go away after giving assurances,” Tomar said.
 
 
 
 The former CRPF commando — he was also with SPG between 2004 and 2012 — remembers every moment of the Maoist ambush. “We were posted in Tongpal police station, which is close to Jeeram Ghati and 40-50km from Sukma. I was in a platoon of 18 that was leading the way. Suddenly, the jungle erupted. We were caught in an ambush by more than 250 Maoists. We retaliated as long as we could. Seventeen of the platoon died. I feel all 18 were killed,” he said. He was airlifted to Raipur, where doctors pulled off a miracle by saving his life.
 
 “My treatment continues even now,” he said. 
 
