PATNA: People in   and several other parts of the state got some respite from the scorching summer following partly cloudy weather on Thursday. Weathermen have forecast thunderstorms along with squall and scattered rain across the state over the next six days.

 Patna is expected to witness partly cloudy sky with possibility of rain,   or dust storm till May 2.
 
 Some places in Seemanchal region in north  , including Kishanganj, witnessed light showers on Thursday. Weathermen have attributed the change in weather conditions to a western disturbance and cyclonic circulations in the region. 
 
 The all-India weather bulletin issued by the   on Thursday evening stated that four cyclonic circulations are situated over northern and eastern parts of the country. The first cyclonic circulation was lying over Haryana and adjoining Punjab, the second over west Uttar Pradesh and neighbouring areas, the third over West Bengal and adjoining Bihar and the fourth over Meghalaya and adjoining east Assam.
 
 The cyclonic circulations also led to formation of a west-east trough from Punjab to east Assam. Besides, the remnant of a western disturbance was also situated over the eastern parts of the country.
 
 Meteorological experts said such weather systems amid the high temperature conditions are creating conducive conditions for formation of thunderstorms along with scattered showers.
 
 As far as temperature is concerned, the minimum reading in Patna on Thursday was recorded at 23 degrees C, a notch lower than the normal.
 
 The Met department has, however, ruled out any major respite from the surging mercury. The IMD weather bulletin stated that day maximum temperatures are likely to remain above 40 degrees C over central and interior parts of eastern India during the next 24 hours.
 
 Patna  , on the other hand, has predicted that maximum temperature in the city would be in the range of 36-37 degrees C.
 
 Maximum temperature in Patna and many other places, especially in central and south Bihar, is hovering around 40 degrees C from past few days. On April 22, the maximum temperature stood at 40 degrees C in Patna and 42.2 degrees C in Gaya. 
 
 
