Bhagabanpur: Ten people have been arrested in connection with the killing of East Midnapore’s Bhagabanpur upapradhan Nantu Pradhan, who was hacked to death on Saturday when he tried to force brackish water into paddy fields to make way for commercial fish ponds (bheris).

 Saturday’s clash and murder has laid bare the fledgling illegal fish farming in agricultural lands along coastal villages in East Midnapore that has been on the rise since 2012, like it happened in South 24 Parganas in the early Ninteies. 
 
 Local   leader Nantu was the key person who took paddy lands on lease and turned them into temporary bheris by letting in saline water through canals. He lured farmers with lucrative lease fees and used his clout to muzzle voices of dissent.
 
 This money-spinning business proved to be Nantu’s claim to fame. His family now owns a BEd College in Bhagabanpur spread over 50 acres and a sprawling bheri at Mobarakpur, an office-cum-garage from where he ran the business. Nantu amassed this huge wealth by taking money from village youths promising them jobs, say local villagers.
 
 Nantu’s father Chandhari was the panchayat pradhan of the CPM gram panchayat in 2003. The entire family joined Trinamool soon after the change of power in 2011.
 
 Nantu’s wife became pradhan of Mohammadpur panchayat, and Nantu the upapradhan. His brother Pintu became the public works karmadhyaksha of Bhagabanpur Block I panchayat samity. Having money and muscle power, Nantu became pally with the powers-that-be. 
 
 Transport minister Subhendu Adhikary kenew Nantu by name and called him a “vote master” after he played a “key” role during the Sabang assembly bypoll.
 
 According to rules, a farmer has to obtain the panchayat’s permission to convert farmland into a fish pond. Once he gets the nod, he has to pay Rs 5,000/acre as fees to the land department. He also has to get a no-objection certificate from the owners of agricultural land surrounding the bheri. The fishery owner then has to build a 50-metre-wide boundary around the bheri and pay compensation to the landowners. 
 
 Nantu ensured that bheri-owners didn’t have to follow rules because the fish farmers didn’t want a permanent conversion that would stop them from returning to paddy cultivation.
 
 All this continued for years despite chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s warning against forcible takeover or conversion of farmland, till it reached a flashpoint on Saturday, killing Nantu.
 
 
