RAJKOT: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has ordered inspection of saltpans leased by the Deendayal Port Trust (DPT) between   and   following allegations of large-scale destruction of mangroves by the Kutch Camel Breeders’ Association (KCBA). The environment watchdog also ordered status-quo on the lease granted by DPT to salt producers while hearing the petition filed by  .

 The NGT further issued notices to the Gujarat government, the   (GPCB), the Central Pollution Control Board ( ), the Gujarat Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA), the Kutch district collector and others and directed them to file replies.
 
 A team constituting members of GPCB and CPCB has been directed to conduct joint inspection of areas where it has been alleged that mangroves had been destroyed to create salt pans and file report by May 1. 
 
 Camel breeders had approached NGT recently alleging that saltpan lease holders were destroying mangroves which is an essential food for camels. They further alleged that from Kandla to Surajbari salt was being produced at the cost of mangroves that will adversely affect the fragile ecosystem of the region. 
 
 KCBA president Bhikhabhai Rabari claimed, “They (saltpan lease holders) have blocked the creek as a result mangroves are devoid of seawater. Earlier, they used to work outside the creek area, but now they produce salt inside the creek where dense mangroves are present. Despite the NGT’s order and cancellation of lease by the Kutch collector, work has not halted.” 
 
 The camel breeders on Friday submitted a memorandum to DPT against salt production and leasing of saltpans. Camel breeders from Bhachau to Gandhidham having 700 camels are suffering as food for the animal has become scarce, Rabari added. 
 
 DPT had leased the land to saltpan holders in Jangi Vandhiya, Amliara villages in Bhachau taluka. Breeders allege that saltpan holders were encroaching the land where mangroves grow and were destroying that. 
 
 During hearing on KCBA’s petition in NGT, DPT had submitted that ‘no activity which may result in destruction of mangroves was being done.’ 
 
 
