LUCKNOW: Buying a flat in the capital city will be easier now with the LDA Board relaxing the minimum limit of land required to build multistoried buildings.

 
 Lucknow’s land shortage has led the LDA Board to allow construction of multistoried apartments on a minimum land area of 150 sqmt. This limit was earlier 300 sqmt. The rule will apply on both government agencies and private builders.
 
 The LDA board meeting proposed the relaxation in the land limit on Monday and would soon send it to the state government for final approval. Builders will also have to abide by the building bylaws like maintaining the green area, plinth area, creating proper infrastructure like drains, sewerage network, supply lines etc. The projects will also ensure compliance with firefighting norms etc.
 
 Though LDA apartments are cheaper than those developed by private builders, but only a few get the benefit due to the lottery system, officials said, adding that the relaxation will translate into flats for more people.
 
 
 
 LDA to develop commercial spaces around airport area: In compliance with the government’s plan to expand and beautify areas surrounding Chaudhary Charan Singh Airport, LDA has agreed to invest around Rs 244 crore on purchasing land near the airport along   and develop commercial spaces.
 
 Future housing projects to be developed on PPP model: The board on Monday said that public private partnership should be encouraged in all LDA housing projects. Hence, it has ordered that all upcoming projects should be built on PPP model in compliance with the Centre as well as state government’s guidelines.
 
 Footover bridge between   and Academic Block: On the request of management of Dr Ram Manohar Lohiya Institute to allow construction of a footover bridge between the institute and academic block in Vibhuti Khand of Gomtinagar to help the doctors residing in hostel commute conveniently to the institute, the board said that if the heads of both departments give NOC for the FOB, LDA can allow building it over its road.
 
