UDAIPUR: She feels at home in Rajasthan, especially in  . This is her eighth trip in past 10 years to India and every time her excitement at seeing the   had known no bounds.

 Charlott Wehchan, a 60-year-old photo journalist from  , is fascinated with birds that have kept her hooked to Dungarpur for years now. 
 
 “It was in 2008, when I had come with my husband to Dungarpur first time, on a vacation and the experience had been so amazing. We both had a fantastic time here in birdwatching and seeing the beautiful winged creatures of all varieties," Charlott told TOI. 
 
 Since then the couple had been coming to India every winters to watch the migratory and local birds in the natural environment. They closely obseved the bird behaviour, their mating calls, nesting pattern, preying and feeding the young ones etc. Sadly, Charlott's husband died in 2016. 
 
 "We both had been very fond of these birds and so now this year I have come here with my son Heimish and his friend Jucy. We are enthralled to see the cranes, painted storks and dozens of all other colourful birds" she chirped like a bird herself. The team experienced a thrillingt bird watching session at Ransagar pond on Thursday.
 
 However, raising concern over the sight of plastic waste near the waterbodies and landfills, she demanded the authorities to take stringent measures to keep the environment clean. " If the plastics enter the water bodies and pollute it, it may prove fatal for the birds. Birds inadvertently feed on plastic floating on the water mistaking it for food and many times are choked" she warned. 
 
 Dungarpur wetlands are emerging as bird watching destinations. Specially Sagwara, is growing as a potential breeding colony for Painted Storks-the broad winged birdsfalling in the nearly threatened species of theIUCN (Internation Union for Conservation of Nature) list. Sizeable colonies of these birds near wetlands and waterbodies in and around the district specially in Sagwara and Galiyakot- Ringwal area has given them their new identity as these birds were recognized as Dungerpur icons, two years ago. 
 
 More than 200 nests of these birds have been seen in Gameshwar talaab while sizeable colonies are reported in areas like Bicchiwada, Dhambola, Karoli, Bhiluda, Bodigama etc." Abundant food in the aquatic sites and absence of poaching in the pollution-free tribal belt provides the birds safe habitation and large-scale breeding," Virendra SIngh Bedsa, an environmentalist says. 
 
 Marsh Harrier, Red Shank, Bar Headed Goose, Greater Cormorant, Grey Francolin, Egrets, Crow Pheasants, Sandpipers, Lapwing, Wagtails, Pipits , Black Tailed Gotwit, Indian Roller, Black Ibis, Flamingos, Black Kites, Little Ringed Plover, Northern Pintail, Common Cranes too are common varieties seen here in good numbers.
 
 
