HYDERABAD: Fuelled by a demand for exotic pets, this illegal market in Hyderabad has seen a staggering 200 per cent growth over the last few years. Running this thriving business is a network of smugglers flying in birds and animals from Africa,  , Indonesia, Australia, Borneo and Brazil– some of them as expensive as ?25 lakh – primarily using women as carriers.

 
 Some of the common tricks of the trade: Bring in the birds’ eggs into the city and then allow them to hatch locally or mix lookalike birds while bringing in– like Lorikeets (not endangered in the country of origin) with African Lovebirds (endangered species) -- in one consignment to avoid suspicion.
 
  
  
 
 These methods, experts say, makes it extremely difficult to nab the offenders.
 
 “Not only is there a scarcity of people who are trained in differentiating between the two, there is also no data available on the origin of these animals and birds. Smugglers often use decoy methods and allow a few consignments to be caught on purpose to divert the authorities’ attentions. And since dedicated labs for DNA testing of animals and birds is not available, by the time the testing is through (in regular labs) the entire trail goes cold,” explained a wildlife expert who assists various agencies with investigating such cases. Though smuggling of exotic birds is most rampant, animals such green iguana, squirrel
 monkey, capuchins, star tortoise, turtles, orangutan, foxes, jackals and monitor lizards are also often sneaked into the local market – at times through ships from Africa, Indonesia and Malaysia.
 
 There are close to 50 shops in the city across areas such as Banjara Hills, Ameerpet, Narayanguda and  .
 
 Speaking on condition of anonymity a pet shop owner said: “A lot of shops stock up on the smuggled variety of pets and when caught, they usually pass them off as being bred in the country. As the norms regarding locally bred species is very unclear, there is no way of cross checking their claims.”
 
 Calling their bluff off, wildlife experts, however, say how some of these species like macaw parrots and African lovebirds – found frequently being sold in the city for a premium price – cannot be bred in captivity.
 
 “Hence, their excuse under which they try to escape from law is baseless,” said an expert adding, “For a Macaw parrot to be breed, for instance, there should be land measuring at least 1 acre to keep the cage (height of over 70 meters). Also squirrel monkeys, capuchins and African lovebirds are difficult breeders. This clearly means that these species have to be necessarily smuggled in to sell.”
 
 
 
 Major gaps in the existing law is why most smugglers go scot-free, say experts. While there is a host of agencies that restrict the entry of exotic species into the country, wildlife of foreign origin is still not protected under the Wildlife Protection Act of 1992. “This makes it extremely difficult to handle cases of smuggling as the chief wildlife warden has no authority to deal with law,” them, as per said A Shankaran, officer on special duty (wildlife), Telangana adding that an amendment to the Act is before the Parliament. “Once it is passed, the wildlife warden will have powers to regulate the trade and traders can be asked to enrol with the department,” he said.
 
  
  
 
 Shankaran confirmed that the department, over the last few years has been getting requests from dealers to import exotic species and giving them ‘no objection’ certification but we do not hive these certificates.
 
 The need of the hour, experts say, is coordination between Forest Department, Wildlife Crime Control Bureau, State Police, Railway Police and Customs. "This is missing in most of the states and it goes undetected. In some states there is a Forest Cell in Police headed by a IG ranked officer, that looks after Forest and wildlife related offences. Unfortunately, it is missing in AP and Telangana," said Imran Siddiqui conservation scientist from WCS-India.
 
 
