NEW DELHI: Sumit (21) was seconds away from meeting a violent end — but for an alert  , he wouldn’t have lived to tell his tale. His  , one of them a  , had taken him to a forested area in south Delhi’s   where they were about to hack him to death.

 However, acting on a tipoff that some criminals had abducted a man and intended to kill him, a policeman on patrol duty rushed to the spot even as he alerted other colleagues. Hearing the police sirens, the men hastily left, but not before thrashing Sumit and snatching his belongings. “A case was registered and a team, led by SHO Upender Singh, formed to nab the culprits,” Romil Baaniya, DCP (south), said. 
 
 Recalling his ordeal, Sumit said he had gone to the market to buy medicines for his mother when six men confronted him. “They threatened to kill me if I didn’t follow them to the jungle nearby. Scared, I complied.”
 
 The men took Sumit to a desolate spot and asked him to hand over his belongings. They claimed that they needed the money to fight the case of a friend arrested for murder. Sumit, however, refused to part with his money. The men pulled out daggers and threatened to kill him. However, they lost their courage on hearing the police sirens. 
 
 Police, meanwhile, received a complaint from another person who claimed to have been thrashed and robbed near the same spot. Connecting the dots, police realized the accused in both cases were the same people. The group had also allegedly killed two men and buried their bodies in the forest some time ago. 
 
 Acting on the clues, the police arrested three people, including a woman, besides apprehending a juvenile. With the arrests, they claimed to have solved several cases of murders, attempts to murder and robberies.
 
 The suspects had planned to flee to south India, but the cops zeroed in on one of them, Rahul Rawat, and nabbed him from his hideout. A few hours later, a 17-year-old was apprehended as well. 
 
 Police said the juvenile was involved in a contract killing case in Sangam Vihar four months ago. He told police that four months ago, he along with two friends,   and Akash, murdered a 23-year-old man. He claimed that after hacking him to death, they burned the body and buried it after pouring salt on it.
 
