SHIMLA: To study the model of “zero budget natural farming”, a team of experts will visit Guntur district of   from March 7 to 11. This team will submit its report to the state government before March 17, the proposed date for a state-level conference on natural farming. 

 Efforts to implement natural farming were discussed at a meeting chaired by governor   at Shimla on Saturday. Devvrat said that state should take the services of former chief secretary of  , who is currently the chief adviser, agriculture, in this field as he was working from last several years in this direction. 
 
 He said that Kumar had successfully implemented zero budget farming system in about one thousand villages of the state in 2.5 years. “We can move forward with their model. Apart from this, farmers can be trained by taking the services of Padamshree Dr Subhash Palekar as a scientist,” he said.
 
 He said that model was more effective for small farmers and especially in horticulture sector and it was also helpful in doubling the income of farmers. He said that it would be a big contribution to the state, so the officers should work with dedication and mission. 
 
 “This system has six advantages directly, save the water, protect the environment, fertility of land will increase, cow protection, product better for health and farmers will survive,” he added.
 
 He also requested the animal husbandry department to work towards breed improvement and especially to make available the high yielding semen of sahiwal, tharparkar and red Sindhi bulls to farmers. He said that it was the need to work in this direction and save the indigenous cow. He also asked the departmental to undertake training and take advantages of centrally-sponsored schemes for breed improvement.
 
 Additional chief secretary (agriculture) Dr   said that state government was endeavoring to promote zero budget natural farming and for this, Gurukul Kurukshetra and Andhra Pradesh models would be studied. 
 
 He said that a team of agriculture, horticultural universities, agriculture and Horticulture departments would visit the state of Andhra Pradesh on a five-day tour from March 7 to 11. He said that writing material, package of practice and training would be done at all levels in this regard.
 
 
