TRICHY:   minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday chaired an interaction meeting with industrialists here ahead of formulating a policy on establishing a defence corridor. Also called the   (Quadrilateral), the project is being proposed with a niche for Trichy. She said that Trichy had an established ecosystem to address the needs of the defence corridor. 

 The union minister said that the purpose of the corridor was to revive the   (DPSUs) and to encourage Micro, Small, and   (MSME) to work closely with PSUs for defence indigenisation. After the provisions for creating two defence corridors was announced in the Union budget, the defence ministry had selected Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh to set up defence products manufacturing corridors. 
 
 Defence officials said that Tamil Nadu was chosen because of its expertise in designing and manufacturing components and also citing the presence of top educational institutes. Trichy found a place in the quadrilateral as it had more than 2,500 MSMEs of which a majority were serving as ancillary units of BHEL. The proposed quadrilateral connected Chennai, Trichy, Coimbatore, Salem and Hosur from there to Bengaluru, a hub for aerospace industries. “We are rejuvenating the Defence Public Sector Undertakings like Ordnance Factory of Tiruchirappalli (OFT),” Nirmala Sitharaman said adding that MSMEs were the heart of defence corridor and with their support the proposed corridor would make the DPSUs competent enough to fulfil the demand in defence sector.
 
 In a veiled criticism of Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) Bengaluru, the Union minister said that defence ministry had placed an order for 123 Tejas   (LCA). However, HAL was able to hand over only six to eight per year which was insufficient to meet the requirements of  . “Air Force demands fighter aircraft at the earliest while HAL could supply only limited number of aircraft per year. Why not expand the production units or share the skills to manufacture LCA in some other plant? Perhaps in Tamil Nadu,” the defence minister said. 
 
 Recalling her college days in Trichy, she added that OFT facility here was once a pride of the city. “Though self-reliance in defence production is the aim of the corridor, we can even evolve over MSMEs and DPSUs to become the hub for defence production as there is certain demand for defence equipment among African and South East Asian nations,” the minister told the MSMEs. Further, the manufacturers here were invited to the meeting to showcase their products related to defence supplies since 300 manufacturers were expected to be present at the DefExpo 2018, the defence exhibition scheduled between April 11 and 14 at Chennai.
 
 
