JODHPUR: When his “voice” itself becomes subject matter for trial, “silence” cannot be a shield, was the observation of   while granting permission to the prosecution to draw voice samples of accused in two cases last year. In order to get similar permission in a case related to the murder of an electronic trader Vasudev Israni, Jodhpur police gave a powerpoint presentation before the high court with a view to convince the court as to why the permission of drawing voice sample of the accused is important for police.

 In most of the cases, various courts have turned down the pleas of prosecution in their respective cases, to grant the permission to draw the voice samples of the accused. In a similar plea, Jodhpur police have sought the permission of the high court to draw the voice sample of an accused   alias Vikka, a member of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi.
 
 Preferring to argue in the court, the police commissioner Ashok   had apprised the court of the difficulties in nailing the criminals on account of their high-tech modus operandi during the hearing of the case on Thursday. “While the criminals have been adopting high-end technology in carrying out the crimes, the police has been stuck in age old laws, which have been holding back the police from nailing them,” Rathore argued in the court.The defence, however, had protested the plea stating that the high court did not have powers to grant such permission under section 482 of Cr PC.
 
 It may be recalled that similar pleas for drawing voice samples of three accused of sensational Bhanwari Devi abduction and murder case by the   are still awaiting permission of the high court. According to former special counsel for CBI, Ashok  , a plea had been filed in the CBI court for obtaining permission to draw the voice samples of   and Sohan Lal Bishnoi.
 
 “The CBI court had granted permission but the same was challenged in the high court by the defence in 2012 and since then, the matter has been pending in the high court,” said Joshi adding that had the permission been granted, it would have been very helpful in proving the case for the prosecution. Similarly, the permission to draw the voice sample on another accused of the case, Indra Bishnoi had been granted by the CBI court but has been pending in the high court for the past 10 months.
 
 According to the government counsel Vikram Singh, the high court has clubbed all these petitions and hearing in all these 4 matters will take place together, wherein a power point presentation will be made in the high court on May 15 prepared by the police. 
 
 
