CHANDIGARH: The residents of Modern Housing Complex, Manimajra, are caught in a constant   chaos. The resident welfare association of the complex wrote to director general of police (DGP) T S Luthra on Tuesday that these 3,150 apartments were home to 12,500 people and so their traffic system should be suited to a thickly populated area. 

 
 During rush hour, the   traffic to   is diverted to two public roads crossing Modern Housing Complex, it being the shortest route. The traffic on the narrow roads of the complex is bound to multiply once a railway under-bridge is complete, considering which, the RWA has proposed to the traffic department to review its regular diversion plan. Residents propose widening a major road skirting the complex market and creating a divider for safety. They want the traffic police to install speed breakers of proper design around the market to reduce the number of accidents that happen there.
 
 The road between flats and duplex houses is too narrow but there is no scope for widening it. Residents want it converted into a one-way street. 
 
 The logjams are aggravated by vehicles parked on the pavements, resulting inconvenience to pedestrians, senior citizens particularly. Residents say this can be stopped easily by installing metal railings to not let vehicles over the pavement.
 
 Parking on blind curves leads to many gridlocks and the problem of frequent accidents also remains to be addressed. One of the proposals is that the police personnel on this beat be asked to punish defaulters summarily. Another thing that the residents have demanded is the 150 security camera that police had recommended after a crime-rate survey in 2016. The station house officer (SHO) concerned had written to the RWA that his finding suggested that crimes such as theft and snatching could be curbed a lot, if superior   (closed-circuit television) cameras kept an eye on Modern Housing Complex. The department suggested that at least 150 cameras would be required.
 
