MUMBAI: With the number of kaali-peelis dwindling over the years, they now account for just 22% of all taxis plying on Mumbai's roads. It means that for every kaali-peeli in the Mumbai metropolitan region, there are three aggregator  . In the suburbs it's now increasingly rare to find and hail a running kaali-peeli; one has to go in search of a taxi stand to get one. 

  According to sources in taxi unions, about 19,000 kaali-peelis are on the roads now, a far cry from 63,000 in 1997- there's been a 70% reduction in the fleet in the last two decades. After 1997, there was a freeze in new permits for taxis, and by 2012, the number of taxis dropped to 38,000. 
 
 Since then, the number of kaali-peelis has been further falling drastically even as aggregator cabs started becoming popular due to their low fares, AC ride and easy pick-up feature. 
 
 The number of aggregator cabs has now more than doubled to 67,000 from 30,000 just a couple of years ago, according to statistics from the transport department.
 
 There has also been a migration of drivers from kaali-peelis to aggregator cabs. "Owing to stiff competition, we are unable to get business, specially for long distance routes," said S M Mishra, a kaali-peeli driver for two decades. Some times, one can travel in an xaggregator cab at the rate of autorickshaw fare. "This is the reason why I have registered with the Ola app. In the mornings, I operate on the share taxi routes in south Mumbai while in the afternoons, I ply passengers who book kaali-peeli taxis through Ola app," he said. 
 
  leader A L   admitted there's been a decline in number of drivers plying kaali-peeli. "We have an acute shortage of drivers and several cabs with valid permits are lying idle in the city (GTB Nagar, Antop Hill etc). Besides, there are hardly any takers for new taxi permits being offered by the government," he said adding that stringent government policy also led to the dip in number of drivers. "There is a rule since 2008 that only those living in Mumbai for 15 years will get a taxi badge. So living here for 2-3 years are unable to get a badge," he said.
 
 He further pointed out the cost of buying a new vehicle has gone up, with fewer models such as Eeco and Swift Dzire being available to operated as kaali-peeli. "Banks too do not provide us with soft loans,'' he said. 
 
 As a result, several kaali-peeli drivers now plan to switch to Uber. The cab aggregator has been wooing the drivers in south Mumbai-between   and Worli. "We plan to offer kaali-peeli on Uber platform across the city in the next few months,'' said a Uber official, who did not wish to be named. 
 
 The Padmini taxis too have been fading into the oblivion, with only a handful of them left and they too will be phased out by year end. 
 
 To give kaali-peeli taxis a fresh lease of life, sources said, the government plans to come up with a new mobile app for them and depute a few RTO officials to monitor their movement through a centralised control room. The taxi union leaders welcomed the new app that can make it convenient for commuters to locate a kaali-peeli in the vicinity and book it with ease. Also, if there is proper enforcement, this will put an end to refusals and fleecing of commuters. 
 
