GURUGRAM:   has hogged the headlines since the   began on March 7. On many occasions,   have been reported to throw stones, sticks and of course   of paper inside examination centres. TOI, which has regularly covered this issue, decided to ask some miscreants near an exam centre in Daultabad why they throw chits. 

 One of them, Prashant Dubey (name changed), a 16-year-old from Gwal Pahari, said they go to the   to have some fun and are not usually involved with the exam going on inside. “We like to have some fun at the exam centres. Mostly, we act as if we’re throwing chits containing answers, but it’s just crumpled tissue paper. No one has ever paid us or asked us to be ‘mules’ at exam centres.”
 
 The challenge facing the administration is to prevent cheating. For this, both the education department and police have been asked to keep a close eye on the centres. Rishab Singh (name changed), an 18-year-old miscreant from Garhi Harsaru, said, “We’ve downloaded the entire exam schedule for Class X and XII boards. None of us have friends or relatives appearing for these exams. Observers are mistaken when they think we’re from the same area as the centre, because we select different schools for our fun every day, so that no one can catch us.”
 
 Across the city, there are 71 exam centres for this year’s Haryana boards. So far, the authorities have managed to clamp down on the disturbances somewhat only in the urban centres. But most complaints are from centres in rural areas. Sidharth Jain (name changed), a 19-year-old miscreant from Garhi Harsaru, said, “I don’t even know what exam is on today. Most of the time, the chits we throw are torn from comic books or college guide books. I go to the exam centres with my friends only to create ruckus. We check if authorities are conducting free and fair exams.” 
 
 Another youngster, Tejinder Singh (name changed), (16) of Gwal Pahari, said, “I go there to impress girls. We shout at the girls as they enter the centre and say “I’ll help you out with your exam, be my friend”.” He smiles and admits his stunt hasn’t borne fruit yet. 
 
 At Government Senior Secondary School, Daultabad, Thursday’s exam was Accounts for Class XII. Virender Chauhan, external observer at the school, informed the principal of the presence of miscreants outside. Principal Anju Paruthi said, “I also had the height of this school’s boundary walls raised, and barbed wire installed above them, to prevent miscreants from storming in. Now, they are trying to destroy those. Police was also called, but they arrived only at 12.30pm. They were present through the exam period.”
 
 Assistant sub-inspector Yogesh Kumar, who was deputed at the school, said, “There were five cops patrolling the area. So there was no outside disturbance.”
 
 
 
