Diganta.Guha@timesgroup.com

 After spending Rs 25 lakh on laying a new carpet of artificial grass at Tau Devi Lal Stadium, the team owners of Minerva Punjab will have to look for some other home ground, maybe a football stadium planned to be built nearby. It’s because the I-League matches this season have scuffed the athletics track laid in 2008.
 
 Athletics is the stadium’s soul. “It has always been part of the complex,” says district sports and youth affairs officer N Satyan. “After the last (Minerva) match on March 6, we won’t host any other football tie on our ground, in order to save the synthetic track.” This new home ground of Mohali-based soccer club is the old training school of junior world record holder javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra. Built for athletics in 2003, the Haryana stadium in Panchkula now accommodates 16 more games.
 
 Cricket history remembers it as the only venue of Indian rebel league and IPL precursor ICL’s first season. The stadium’s coaches, trainees, and administrators are all dreamers. “We aim at big glories,” said Satyan, the Haryana government officer who runs the complex. Coaches keep entering his office during the interview, which says a lot about the free access he has given to all and explains the friendly ambience of the facility.
 
 Athletics first
 
 In 2003, when the stadium came up, athletics, badminton and cricket were the focus. Head coach of athletics Naseem Ahmed has guided trainees to the state, national, and international medals. In 2010, the stadium got a sports nursery with hostel room for 25. With the nursery now gone, the trainees have lost in-house accommodation. They stay around the stadium to be able to attend the practice sessions. Even the coaches recruited by the Haryana government stay off campus. Athletics coach Vikram Chaudhary said: “I come from Bhiwani and have to put up at a rented accommodation nearby.”
 
 Satyan recalls the time when junior world record holder Neeraj Chopra used to throw javelin on this field. Ahmed, associated with the complex for 10 years, says: “Over the years, we have produced a number of athletes who have done us proud. The current crop of 40-to-45 students trains regularly over two sessions of three hours each in morning and evening.”
 
 Multi-discipline
 
 Athletics may have been the focus to start with, but other disciplines have also come up in a big way. Currently, players of handball, cricket, soccer, basketball, rowing, athletics, volleyball, fencing, badminton, and yoga come to the complex for training. Soon gymnastics, weightlifting, wrestling, table tennis, taekwando, and wushu will be added. Nearly 45 trainees train at one time on this ground, depending upon the sport. “We have a number of coaches from the sports department, close to 40 at this point of time, and they are doing a good job with the trainees,” Satyan said.
 
 Each sport (football, rowing, and volleyball, to mention a few) has at least two coaches, except cricket, which has one. It includes 10 woman coaches for various disciplines. Taekwando coach Kanchan Rathod said: “The atmosphere of the complex is conducive to training. There is no dearth of support from the administration either, which is extremely encouraging.”
 
 Fencing coach Komal Chaudhary, who belongs to Kurukshetra, has been associated with the complex for three years now. She said: “The complex has an atmosphere that keeps students motivated. We aspire to win laurels for the state and the country, and we don’t compromise on our dreams.”
 
 Box:
 
 After ICL gamble, betting on future
 
 Tau Devi Lal Stadium hosted the inaugural edition of the rebel Indian Cricket League (ICL) in 2007. It didn’t go down well with the Board of Control for Cricket in India and the stadium never got the BCCI recognition. However, it continues to train budding cricketers selected by the Haryana sports department. The athletics track is its unique selling proposition but more noteworthy is a multi-purpose indoor hall that has come up on the campus. Quite a few games can be played there. It’s a big boost to the sporting culture in Haryana
 
 Box:
 
 Stadium profile
 
 Built in | 2003
 
 Located in | Sector 3, Panchkula
 
 Training facilities | Cricket, handball, basketball, athletics, volleyball, fencing, football, gymnastics, rowing and seven other games
 
 Box:
 
 Coaches
 
 Cricket | 1
 
 Football | 2
 
 Wushu | 2
 
 Taekwando | 2
 
 Rowing | 2
 
 Athletics | 3
 
 Handball | 1
 
 Volleyball | 1
 
 Box:
 
 Nursery may reopen
 
 A sports nursery with hostel facility for 25 students was built in 2010 and, later, closed. Plans are afoot to reopen it, since students have to pay for their own accommodation. The Haryana government gives cash rewards to winners at the national level. The gold medal fetches Rs 3 lakh, silver Rs 2 lakh, and bronze Rs 1 lakh
 
 Box:
 
 I-League
 
 Tau Devi Lal Stadium has hosted I-League football matches this season as the first-ever home ground of Minerva Punjab FC, one of the title contenders. The team has, so far, played four matches at the stadium, with the last scheduled for March 6
 
 
