CHENNAI: Actor Kamal Haasan alleged on Thursday that money power was behind TTV Dhinakaran's win in the December 21 RK Nagar byelection, drawing sharp rebuke from the sidelined   leader who accused the star of maligning voters. 

  In a stinging article as part of his weekly series in the latest issue of Tamil magazine 'Ananda Vikatan', the veteran star described the byelection, necessitated due to the demise of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa, as a "stain" on Indian democracy. Responding to Haasan's salvo, Dhinakaran hit back saying the actor was making such allegations as he could not digest his win. 
 
  Amid accusations of money distribution by rival sides - the AIADMK and the Dhinakaran camps - the former   and   MP, contesting as an independent, had trounced the ruling party candidate E Madhusudhanan. He won by a margin of 40,000 votes, giving a jolt to the chief minister EK Palaniswami-led dispensation. Both Dhinakaran as well as the ruling party, however, have denied charges of money distribution. 
 
 In his article, without naming Dhinakaran, Haasan said the byelection win was a "purchased" one, alluding to alleged money distribution by the rebel camp. "RK Nagar byelection is a big stain on   politics; it is a big stain on Indian democracy. I won't call this even a scam... this is a daylight crime," Haasan charged.
 
 Haasan charged that both the "independent" and the "ruling side fixed rates" for voters. agencies 
 
 Alleging that people had voted for money, Haasan, in the article, said "you have been sold out". Dhinakaran, responding to Haasan's allegations, hit out at the award-winning actor, saying he had "insulted" and "hurt" the RK Nagar voters by making such allegations. PTI 
 
 "This doesn't befit his age and experience. Under the garb of attacking the winner, he is attacking the people, who are mainly from poorer sections, saying they voted for money," Dhinakaran told reporters here.
 
 He denied bribing the voters, saying, if at all money would have played a role in the electoral outcome, "two leaves (the AIADMK) would have won".
 
 Questioning whether Kamal Haasan was a judge or God, Dhinakaran said the actor should have contested the byelection to face the reality. He said: "Can such people survive in politics?"
 
 "Politics is not some scripted movie where one can mouth dialogues written by someone else," he said.
 
 Dhinakaran dared those making such allegations to reiterate them by holding a public meeting at RK Nagar.
 
 
