AHMEDABAD: A 19-year-old girl from a village near   lodged an FIR with Satellite police against her   for   and her mother for abetting the crime. The accused were arrested by Satellite police on Tuesday afternoon. 

 
 According to a complaint by Dina Solanki (name changed), resident of a village near Sanand, she lives with her father and two brothers. 
 
 Two years ago, her mother had started living with a man, a resident of Rajivnagar near Satellite. The incident took place after a major altercation between her parents.
 
 “She has mentioned in the complaint that she used to visit her mother frequently. During that time, Ramesh, the accused, had started touching her inappropriately. When she raised the issue with her mother, she allegedly said that it was a way for her stepfather to express love and asked her not to mind it. In Diwali vacation of 2017, she had gone to live with her mother for a few days. At that time, Ramesh raped her,” said an investigator.
 
 When she brought the issue to her mother, she allegedly told her that she would try to prevent further incidents but she cannot take any steps as she had left her ‘poor’ husband to be with Ramesh and did not want to jeopardize the prospect of new life. After the incident, Ramesh allegedly raped her on several occasions. Dina got afraid when she started experiencing frequent stomach aches for which she used to take pills.
 
 “In February, when she could not bear the pain any more, she approached a public health centre where she was diagnosed pregnant. When she told her mother about it, she asked her to come to Ahmedabad from Sanand as she would help in abortion. She however was afraid due to previous experiences and chose to remain with her father instead,” said the official.
 
 On April 29, she was visiting her maternal uncle when she felt unease. As she started bleeding, her maternal grandmother immediately took her to the VS Hospital. There, she gave birth to a premature baby who died soon afterwards.
 
 “We arrested Ramesh and the survivor’s mother and sent Ramesh for medical examination on Tuesday. The girl has underwent DNA test earlier. The probe is on to ascertain whether the girl was minor when the rapes took place. If that’s the case, sections of   would also be applied,” said a Satellite police official.
 
