CHANDIGARH: In a twist in the infamous   gang rape, murder and robbery case of   district, the CBI has submitted a   against four members of ‘axle gang’ for their committing the crime.

 The case had hit the national headlines, when on the intervening night of August 24-25, 2016, a family in Dingerheri was attacked. A Muslim couple was killed and several members of their family were injured and a 21-year-old woman and 16-year-old girl from the family were raped.
 
 The chargesheet has been submitted before special CBI judge Jagdeep Singh against four accused Hemant Chauhan, Ayan Chauhan, Vinay alias Lambu and Jai Bhagwan.
 
 As per the chargesheet, submitted on January 25, all four accused have been charged for murder, attempt to murder, gang rape, robbery and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences ( ) Act. The accused also appeared before the special CBI court on Monday through video conferencing. The hearing would continue on Tuesday, when the copy of the charge sheet would be supplied to the accused.
 
 Role of these accused had surfaced, when on September 13, 2017 Gurgaon police arrested members of ‘Axle gang’ who had confessed to their role in the Dingerheri incident.
 
 The case was initially registered on August 25, 2016 by   police and the state police had claimed big success in the case, after they arrested four local youths within four days of the crime.
 
 However, there was resentment among the villagers who claimed that the arrested youth were not involved in the crime after which the case was sent to CBI for probe. Finally on December 5, 2016 CBI had taken over the investigation of the case.
 
 This is second chargesheet against in the same case, as earlier the Haryana police had submitted a charge sheet in November 2016 for the same offence against four boys including Sandeep, Amarjeet, Karamjeet and Rahul Verma, all residents of   village of Mewat. 
 
 These accused, however, have been claiming innocence in the main case and had already filed an application before the special CBI court for discharging them from the case.
 
 “The fresh charge sheet against members of ‘axle gang’ has proved the innocence of these four local youths who were arrested by Haryana police. It has also exposed how unreliable the police can be when it comes to investigating grave crimes amidst a public outcry and close media scrutiny,” said Pardeep   who is counsel for the youths arrested earlier for the crime. Rapria also claimed thet they would now press for discharge of the youths initially arrested by Haryana police or would apply for their bail.
 
 
