As part of its   talks, the   of   recently organised a session with Muzzafar Ali. In conversation with  , the session with the poet and filmmaker turned shayarana as almost everybody in the audience started talking about Umrao Jaan and singing songs from the film towards the end.

  
  Nelofar Currimbhoy
 
  
 
 
  The filmmaker, poet and fashion designer, who has lived in Lucknow and Mumbai, now resides in Delhi. How has he seen the capital changing though his eyes, asked Nelofar. "I don't belong anywhere, main jahan jata hoon wahin ka ho jata hoon and currently, I am also doing a series on textiles. Toh main jis bhi shehar gaya hoon, mujhe yahi laga hai ki main wahin ka ho gaya hoon. Wahin ka music, wahin ke log, wahin ka itihas, Delhi mein bhi wohi hai. Lucknow toh humari zimmedari si hai, Delhi, like any other city, has its problems. Par Delhi mein tehzeeb hain aur aap jaise log hai jo discussion, session ke liye aa jate hain."
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  Muzaffar Ali projection of Umrao Jaan on screen was one of the reasons behind inviting him to the session. "He had shown her vulnerability through the optimism which she took on in her life. In a lot of ways, she came our pretty strong from that. We have had a lot of talks on gender stereotyping also and talked about the media narrative that changed after the Nirbhaya incident. Here is a narrative that has been flowing in our lives, and that was the reason for organising this talk," said  , president of Elsa. That is why when Nelofar asked Meera, Muzaffar Ali's wife, on how does it feel to live with a man who understands women in such a way, she replied, "Ab toh bahut saal ho gaye, I wish you had asked me this 28 years ago. It is good to know that the man that you are living with is a sensitive person, who understands what a woman goes through. I don't think everybody is lucky to have a man like him in their lives."
 
  
  Click-happy LSR alumni with Muzaffar Ali
 
 
 
 
 
  He may have had a successful career as a filmmaker but he has no plans to join the industry again. When a member from the audience asked him when will he be making a movie again, he said, "I can't get into the market in Bollywood now. My son is in the market and it is sold, they have no respect for culture." To this, Nelofar added, "I think it is time for the market to come to Muzaffar sahab."
 
 
  
 
