NEW DELHI: “Are there actual   in Delhi?” asked  , a resident of Tughlakabad Extension, while surveying the stretch of Madhya Marg that was declared a “pedestrian shopping street” in 2006. As vehicles drove past him, his bafflement assumed a new pertinence because the proposed modifications in Delhi Master Plan 2021 to provide traders relief from the on-going   suggest that where sufficient parking space is unavailable, the roads should be declared as pedestrian-only.

 But what happened to hundreds of such stretches across the capital, with right of way narrower than 6 metres, that were declared for pedestrian use only in 2006 to save commercial establishments from sealing at the time? Nothing much. TOI visited eight “pedestrianised” stretches only to find that the conditions seem to have worsened and the pedestrianisation goals haven’t been met anywhere.
 
 Take the internal road from  . A decade after the notification, vehicles and vendors have turned the so-called pedestrian path into a congested nightmare. Saurabh Dahiya, a chemist there, said the traffic problem had increased many times over since the notification. “If they actually wanted to stop the vehicles, they should have barricaded the entrance to the road,” muttered Dahiya. 
 
 Conditions are no better in the relatively upscale Shahpur Jat village, the tony hub of designer boutiques. “We constantly worry about being hit by cars,” said Alexandrina, a Scandanavian visitor. Vinay Singh, an area resident, admitted that the place had transformed massively since 2006. “People have become richer with the development of market, and vehicle ownership has risen manifold. But where is the parking facility?” Singh asked. 
 
 The 2006 notification of Delhi’s urban development department lists 430 pedestrian stretches, Civil Lines, Sadar Paharganj and Shahdara South zones accounting for the most at 116, 134 and 124 roads, respectively.
 
 Anil Bansal, a trader on Madhya Marg, said that a lot of things were to have changed after 2006, of which nothing has materialised. “At that time even two cars could pass each other on this road. Today, due to encroachments hardly a third of the 15-foot road is left for us. The rest has been taken over by hawkers,”   grumbled. Two-storey houses have given way to buildings with up to six floors, exponentially increasing the population of the colony, with many apartments being rented out to outsiders.
 
 Sanjay Abrol, a property dealer, argued that both residents and traders were suffering alike. “Some shop owners have illegally occupied up to 4 feet of road space,” Abrol said. “Only if the authorities carry out pedestrianisation now and develop proper parking can there be an improvement in people’s lives.”
 
 The vehicular burden from these areas spills over to main Jagdamba Road and Ravidas Road where lack of parking chokes the traffic arteries. The south corporation had to make plans in conjunction with other civic agencies, including Delhi Police, to bring a halt to traffic movement on such stretches, but senior municipal officials admit that “not much has been done to facilitate the pedestrianisation of these roads”. “Once the sealing stopped, even the other agencies did not show much interest and the plan remained on paper,” one official remarked.
 
 
