GURUGRAM: An amount of Rs 9.57 crore is pending in property   payments of private   in the city, that have been in existence for the last 10 years. 

 According to officials of  , there are altogether 76 banquet halls in MCG’s four zones, none of which have paid property taxes. Many of these banquet halls are located on the old-Delhi Gurgaon road.
 
 The maximum outstanding amount is from Zone 2, where 45 banquet halls have Rs 8.4 crore as pending taxes. Zone 4, with five properties, has dues amounting to Rs 66.7 lakh. The number of such properties in Zone 1 are 21 and in Zone 3 five, with dues amounting to Rs 36.6 lakh and Rs 13.8 lakh respectively.
 
 “Some of these properties have not paid taxes for years. Notices have been issued to all, asking them to clear their dues within a month, failing which they will be sealed and then auctioned,” said an MCG official.
 
  Special zone-wise teams have been formed for the collection of pending property taxes on commercial and residential properties across the city. 
 
 Over the past week, hundreds of properties have been issued notices or sealed for non-payment of property taxes.
 
 Banquet halls in the city have also come under scanner due to lack of fire clearances for the buildings. TOI had earlier reported that none of the private banquet halls in Gurgaon have no objection certificates (NOCs) as revealed by a recent fire audit.
 
 According to MCG officials, inspections were carried out at several public spots that revealed 62 private banquet halls in the city are being operated without fire clearance certificates. 
 
 “These places are highly susceptible to incidents of fire, given that cooking and other fire-related activities take place frequently. As these venues are crowded during the wedding season, unavailability of fire fighting equipment could be fatal,” said a senior MCG official, requesting anonymity.
 
 An MCG fire audit, conducted recently, has revealed that several buildings in the city, where thousands of people visit rAccording to MCG officials, inspections were carried out in several public spots that revealed that there are around 62 private banquet halls in the city that are being operated without a fire clearance certificateegularly, are operating without a fire clearance. 
 
 
