MOHALI: Welcoming high court’s decision on mayor Kulwant Singh’s plea on Thursday, district councillors have said that the high court’s verdict would now pave way for the developmental works that were stalled due to a tussle between local bodies minister   and Kulwant.

 While addressing a media on Thursday, Mayor   admitted to the fact that a tiff between the two did slow the developmental works.
 
 “Yes, the tiff brought down the progress of developmental works in  . But now, we will expedite the developmental works as the residents must not be deprived of their rights,” the mayor said.
 
 “It was a malicious intention of defaming me and taking control of the municipal corporation by ousting councillors,” he added. Residents and councillors believe that the MC has lagged in completing various developmental works despite their approval. It is because of this that the councillors rue over the fact that they are being questioned by the residents for the pending developmental works in their respective wards.
 
 Councillors Kamaljit Singh Ruby, Sukhdev Singh Patwari,   Sohal and Parwinder Singh said that they were answerable to the residents, who voted them to power.
 
 “From the last 10 months, the MC has lagged in completing public interest works like repairing of public toilets in various parks; cleaning of parks; removal of vehicles from green belts; door-to-door garbage collection and setting up of toilets,” they added.
 
 “N-Choe divides Phase IX and the residents are forced to live under fear of criminals. The MC was supposed to clean the area and construct cycle tracks, walking paths. They had plans to fix foot lights on the banks of the N-Choe, but failed miserably,” said Councillor of ward number 24 Kamaljit Singh Ruby.
 
 “The MC has failed to beautify the banks of N-Choe, which earlier were the responsibility of Gmada. Now that the parks and banks of N-Choe have been handed over to the MC, it has failed in coping up with it,” said Gurmeet Singh Sohal and Parwinder Singh.
 
 
