NEW DELHI: Three days before its scheduled release, “Padmaavat” faced uncertainty on Monday in at least four states,  , MP,   and  , with a majority of distributors and exhibitors unwilling to take the risk of releasing Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s controversial film in the face of protests by Rajput groups and threats to theatre owners. 

 In Indore, the Central Cinema Circuit Association (CCCA) announced that its members cannot screen the film in MP and Rajasthan for fear of violence. CCCA is an umbrella body of 2,000 film distributors and exhibitors of Maharashtra,  , MP and Rajasthan.
 
 In Gujarat, many cinema hall owners didn’t want to release the film despite assurances by cops as they feared damage to their property. 
 
 CCCA president Jai Prakash Choukse told TOI that   may turn out to be a blockbuster in south India, West Bengal and the Seven Sisters, but “the possibility of its release in MP and Rajasthan is nearly zero”. 
 
 “The governments in these two states are not only supporting the protest but standing as mute spectators to the open violation of law and contempt of court by these outfits. The statements by those who oppose the film are clearly disrespectful of the Sc’s order and are also in violation of reasonable restrictions on speech. The filmmakers must screen the movie on television or launch it on the web,” Choukse said. 
 
 Sources said in Jaipur, some exhibitors had a meeting with the distributor who was supposed to release Padmaavat in Rajasthan as well as with others who had distributed Bhansali’s films earlier. All of them concluded at the meeting that there was no point in releasing the film in the current volatile scenario. They didn’t seem to be convinced by assurances by Jaipur police commissioner Sanjay Agarwal that strict action will be taken against those taking law into their hands. 
 
 “Because of the reluctance shown by the over 200 screens in Rajasthan about screening the film, we have decided not to release it in the state,” said Raj Bansal, a leading film distributor. This decision has been communicated to various cinema halls across the state and the film producers. However, they said they would reverse their decision if things change for the better in the coming days and issues between protesting Rajput outfits and filmmakers are sorted out. 
 
 Multiplexes in Ahmedabad and elsewhere developed cold feet as protests against the film continued to rage on in Gujarat for the fourth consecutive day. At least eight multiplexes in Ahmedabad have refused to screen the film despite K L N Rao, special commissioner of police, saying that “all malls and multiplexes in western Ahmedabad – irrespective of whether they screen Padmaavat – have been given security cover”. 
 
 Protests by Rajput oufits continued in various parts of the state. Nearly half of state transport buses originating from places in North Gujarat remained off the roads, fearing attacks by agitators. 
 
 In Rajasthan’s Bhilwara, a Rajput youth, with a bottle of petrol in his hand, climbed on a 350-foot-tall mobile tower, demanding a ban on the film. . The Jharkhand wing of Shree Rashtriya Rajput Karni Sena issued letters to cinema hall owners to not screen the film. In Dehradun, members of the Uttarakhand Kshatriya Mahasabha claimed they had received assurances from four prominent multiplexes that the film will not be screened.
 
