MUMBAI: Mumbaikars reported the highest number of   cases among metros in recent years, but city police have failed to keep up. Only 841 (20%) of the 4,212 cases registered in the city from January 2014 till March 2018 have been cracked, says a   report. 

 What’s worrisome for the financial capital is that while 1,532 cases of   were reported in this period, only 174 cases (11%) were solved and not even 5% of the money siphoned was recovered, the report shows. When it comes to other categories such as stalking, sexual harassment and black-mail, police detected and filed chargesheets in barely 25%, of the 1,435 cases registered. But an official said not even 10 of these cases finally ended in conviction. 
 
 Experts blame this on lack of expertise and  . Till a couple of months ago, the city had only one cyber crime cell with only 40 personnel. Now, every police station has a team to focus on cyber crime as cases have doubled from 604 in 2014 to 1,361 in 2017 in the wake of growing  . Cyber crime is, in fact, growing at a much faster rate than conventional offences like assault and robbery.
 
 According to cyber crime lawyer Prashant Mali, posting to the cyber crime cell is often seen by policemen as being side-lined if not demoted— so, the motivation levels in these units are low. “Shoddy investigation leads to poor evidence gathering and investigation officer’s lack of technical expertise leads to defective chargesheets,” said Mali. 
 
 According to him, a special cyber crime or tech crime cadre with no law enforcement responsibility is the need of the hour.
 
 In all, Maharashtra recorded 10,419 cyber crime cases between 2012 and 2017. While trial was completed in just 184 cases, only 34 of them ended in conviction (which is 0.3% of the total cases). 
 
 Another reason for poor conviction, experts and former cops say, is failure of investigators to meticulously follow the rules for evidence under the Information Technology Act and the Indian Evidence Act. Besides, several wrong sections are invoked to cases non-bailable and cognizable. “During trial, such imposition of wrong sections leads to acquittals. For example, a defamation case, which is a non-cognizable offence, is made cognizable by wrongly applying sections of the Information Technology Act. These charges fall flat during trial,” a senior IPS officer told TOI.
 
 Former state DGP Pravin Dixit said that in many cases the servers used are located abroad. “Rarely they provide necessary trails immediately,” he said. Echoing his view, cyber crime expert Ritesh Bhatia also attributed poor detection to lack of infrastructure, investigation tools and delay/refusal by online service providers to give information. He said that with cybercriminals evolving new techniques and tools by the day, police too need to be provided with continuous training and latest investigative tools. “Easy access and use of fake identities, international IPs, proxies and offshore scene of crime are leading to poor detection. Cyber crime desks of local police station are completely naive and need to be provided with a lot more training,” he said.
 
 Agreeing with Bhatia, former IPS officer turned lawyer YP Singh said that in a large number of cases, the accused is either untraceable or is based at a remote location, many a time outside India. Lack of adequate manpower and jurisdictional issues lead to such cases going unsolved. “There is no long-term cohesive training programme. The short term courses do not provide the requisite expertise in this highly evolving world of Information Technology. What is necessary is to have a dedicated cadre of police officers dealing with cyber crime,” said Singh.
 
 Despite several attempts, DCP (cyber crime) Akbar Pathan could not be contacted for comments.
 
 
