CHENNAI: A day after a woman techie was   at Sithalapakkam off OMR, Chennai's I-T corridor, police on Wednesday detained Surya, 20, of Semmenchery, and recovered the victim's vehicle from him. 

 Late on Tuesday, the two-wheeler of P   was found abandoned near a   bar in Semmenchery and investigations revealed that Surya was found riding it. 
 
 The victim was robbed of a   chain,   and scooter in the attack suspected to have been carried out by a gang. Police are questioning four more in the case. Lavanya is still in a critical condition at a hospital in  . 
 
 An officer said Surya was a “key suspect” in the case and investigators were questioning him about the attack that left P Lavanya Janath, 30, an engineer at Newt Global on Rajiv Gandhi Salai, battling for life in a hospital.
 
 The police were questioning three other men even as St Thomas Mount deputy commissioner M S Muthusamy and a team of sleuths pursued various leads in the case.
 
 Policemen found the scooter, a blue Honda Activa, abandoned near a Tasmac outlet in Semmenchery, but its number plate was missing. They confirmed that it was Lavanya’s bike by the chassis number.
 
 “Locals said Surya was riding the scooter,” the officer said.
 
 Lavanya’s condition remained critical through Wednesday. “We hope to speak to her again as soon as possible to determine what exactly took place,” the officer said. “She appeared to have been heading to her sister’s house in Nookampalayam near Sithalapakkam when the man took her by surprise but her sister, Nisha Jaiganesh said she was not aware of her sister’s plan to visit her. ”
 
 Apasserby found Lavanya unconscious on a deserted stretch on Thalambur-Perumbakkam Road at 4am on Tuesday, two hours after she left her office, and alerted the police control room.
 
 The engineer, barely conscious, told police officers that the assailant acted alone.
 
 The mugging, which took place near the IT Corridor and at the crest of a violent crime wave, was particularly alarming to professionals who work late hours.
 
 Lavanya’s family on Wednesday arrived in the city from her hometown of Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh.
 
