Nagpur: SSC students exiting the exam centres on Wednesday looked exuberant as the last paper of the series was a piece of cake. The excitement was palpable on their faces as social science paper-II didn’t pose any obstacles.

 According to experts, the straightforward language of the paper was a surprise to them and a huge hit among students, as all the questions were asked from the textbook.
 
 “All the questions including the bar graph and map observation were asked in a very lucid language. The students are prepared to face tricky questions according to the usual paper pattern, but this year it was surprisingly different,” said Nicola McLeod, social science teacher at St. Josephs’ Convent.
 
 Excitement of the exams concluding coupled with facing an unchallenging paper took the students to cloud nine.
 
 Ankit Sharma said, “The paper was easier than expected as I had prepared for a tougher fight. All the questions were from the syllabus and it was easier than the exams we gave at school.”
 
 His batchmate Sanjana Devghare also felt that the exam was easy and not at all lengthy. “Solving last years’ question papers proved a huge help in as I knew the answer to every question. Graph and map questions were the easiest for me,” she said.
 
 Sandhya Bhagat said social science paper-I was a tougher challenge. She said, “The exam was easier than the prelims of our school. To my utter surprise, the paper was not at all lengthy. I hope to score good grades as I finished it before time.”
 
 Krish Khemani said, “The paper was easy as our school pre-boards had prepared us for facing a difficult paper. I hope I score great and it is a relief that our exams are finishing on such a great note.”
 
 Teachers prepared the students by providing them a bank of important questions of all topics and it was a great aid for them. Harsh Bangre said, “The questions provided to us by our teachers were quite helpful as most of them were repeated in today’s paper.”
 
 Gaurav Bhojwani said that everybody will score glorious marks as the paper was quite easy. He added, “Since all the questions were from the textbook, it will make scoring easy.”
 
 Paper rating
 
 Toughness: Easy
 
 Questions’ relevance: Straightforward
 
 Length: Appropriate
 
 
