PATNA: Amid real shocker for BJP in Gorakhpur and Phulpur parliamentary constituencies in Uttar Pradesh, the   constituents in   underplayed the byelection results for   Lok Sabha and Jehanabad and Bhabhua assembly seats, maintaining that the outcome had not altered the previous results in any way.

 While   retained the Araria Lok Sabha and Jehanabad assembly seats, the saffron flag kept flying in Bhabhua. RJD’s Sarfaraz Alam defeated Pradeep Kumar Singh of BJP in Araria while Kumar Krishna Mohan alias Suday Yadav won hands down against Abhiram Sharma of JD(U) in Jehanabad, repeating the 2015 victory of their respective fathers, Md Taslimuddin and Mundrika Singh Yadav, whose deaths had necessitated the byelection in the two constituencies. Similarly, Rinki Pandey of BJP retained the Bhabhua seat her husband late Anand Bhushan Pandey had won in 2015.
 
 Though the popular refrain among the senior JD(U) ministers on the results was “no comments”, industries minister Jai Kumar Singh said the results were the repeat of 2015. Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi said the sympathy factor worked in all the three constituencies.
 
 On Shambhu Singh Patel’s loss to Rinki, senior   leader Sadanand Singh said the BJP nominee went around villages with her kids to garner votes.
 
 The twist in the NDA is that the RLSP led by Union minister Upendra Kushwaha was keen to contest from Jehanabad, but the BJP had requested JD(U) national president and chief minister Nitish Kumar to field his party’s nominee there. RLSP national general secretary and spokesman Madhav Anand said, “Losing Jehanabad has hurt us the most, since it was originally our seat. Regardless of these results, NDA remains strong and united as ever. The real battle is in 2019.”
 
 BJP’s Hisua MLA Anil Singh, who camped in the Forbesganj assembly segment of Araria parliamentary constituency, said, “In Araria, we improved our position as the margin of defeat has been narrowed.”
 
 But the RJD lashed out against CM Nitish and the BJP with the newfound offensive. “It is more than popular anger against the BJP and Nitish, because they had been claiming victory on all the three seats. It is clear that the face of Nitish does not fetch votes,” said RJD MLA and spokesman Ramanuj Singh.
 
 He added, “The results are people’s verdict against all kinds of ‘bandis’ from which they are suffering — from ‘notebandi (demonetisation)’ to ‘balubandi (controlled mining and sale of sand), ‘gittibandi’ (ban on quarrying and trade of stone chips), and ‘sharabbandi’ (prohibition).”
 
 
