In most parts of the western world, interest and involvement in politics among youth have been rising dramatically. Last year, in the UK, youth turnout propelled Labour to its best results in a long time. Across the Atlantic, on 24 March this year, the shooting survivors of Marjory Stoneman Douglas organized March for Our Lives, an assembly asking for stricter gun control laws, which saw millions of students walking out of school, risking suspensions, while hundreds of thousands of people gathered to listen to the students of the school talk - or in one memorable case - keep silent, about the toll the school shooting had and the need for better gun control.

 In Bengaluru, the level of involvement and expectations are lower, though most students have indicated that they will vote. “Everyone over 18 should take part in voting and elect their leaders,” says Vikas, an engineering student from a local college. For him, the most important issues are transport and infrastructure. There’s also the garbage problem. “The BBMP’s garbage segregation plan has been a failure,” he says.
 
 
 Transport is an important issue for 19-year-old Megha Ranka, a commerce student from Mount Carmel College, as well. “The new government needs to speed up the pace of different on-going construction works. The construction and renovation of roads and flyovers etc., take years to complete and create a lot of chaos and distress for students like us,” she says. Her classmate, 20 year old Simran Sharma, echoes this. “We need better public transportation,” she says. Vishag Manikkath, 20, from Christ University, takes a more nuanced view. “It is nearly impossible to curb issues like traffic in a few months or even years,” he says. “We need politicians to think of long-term solutions, and complete implementation of existing projects and schemes,” he adds.
 
 Other issues that resonate with the first-time voters are pollution and lake restoration, and safety. “The government should look at issues of congestion and pollution that are really taking a toll on the city,” says Mridupal Sarma, a student at the Centre for Management Studies. “Development should also look at reviving the city’s lakes,” says Manikkath. For Alliance University student Mehr Kohli, “The new government should take women’s safety seriously”.
 
 There are many “shoulds”, but there’s also an underlying feeling of disenchantment. “Whatever knowledge I have of politics makes me expect nothing from the government or any of the parties,” says Christ University student Avina Dubey. “They don’t care about us. We’re simply not important enough for them. I’m going to vote ‘None Of The Above’,” says Akanksha, a student from a city college. “I would go for the NOTA option,” says Sarma, as well.
 
 But some students are quite cynical about their peers. “Everyone will say voting is important. But very few will actually go and vote. And the ones who will vote will do so just to put photographs of their inked fingers on Instagram,” says Akanksha.
 
 With inputs from Sushanti Chakravarty
 
 
