LUDHIANA: Police arrested the fake IPS officer   from Delhi late on Monday night. A .32 bore licensed revolver, 25 live cartridges, a police uniform with stars, a nameplate, and a blue beacon were recovered from his possession. The cops said movies had inspired him to become a police officer.

 Additional deputy commissioner of police (special branch)   said: “Even as his family said Rupinder had passed class 8, he claimed he had done graduation privately. The accused was earlier a travel agent who would book tickets online for Orbit and Jujhar buses. Then, he started working as an immigration consultant. To some people, he also claimed to be a transporter. Basically, the accused wanted to have a good reputation and influence.”
 
 Lamba added: “After getting influenced by movies, he desired to become an IPS officer. He started spreading the word that he was appearing for the UPSC exams. Later, he said due to a court case, his file was pending. Still later, he started telling people he had cleared the exam, and was on training. During this period, he had already managed to have good connections with some politicians and police officials. He used to meet the lower ranked cops, posing as an under-training IPS officer.”
 
 The official further stated that since the imposter used to visit different offices, he was known to many police officials. “Many officials were under the impression he was an IPS officer under training, and with that influence, they also issued a police clearance certificate to him for his IPS training in Hyderabad.”
 
 It is alleged that the accused appeared in the preliminary exam of UPSC in 2014, but could not clear it. However, the police are yet to ascertain it. Besides, the police are also identifying the role of a home guard,  , deployed in Meherban police station, who was known to the accused for almost eight years.
 
 The ADCP said Joginder had been Rupinder’s biggest support. “Rupinder was known to Joginder as a transporter earlier, and then in a similar way, he started telling him he had appeared for the IPS exam and has cleared it. When Rupinder told Joginder he had become an IPS officer, he took Joginder to a tailor who stitches uniform for all police officials in Ludhiana, and from there, he got his uniform stitched. The police have recovered the receipt and other documents from the tailor. From there, he got the police stars and name plate too. Since Joginder was very close to Rupinder, the accused would always take him along as security, during his visits to any politician or official. The police are further verifying Joginder’s role in the case.”
 
