 Excerpts.

 
 
 This Budget blends fiscal prudence with social and economic necessity. We have maintained the glide path, not only for this year but also for future years. The 3.5% fiscal deficit this year, one of the key contributory factors to this, is a statistical reason. This year, we get   revenues for only 11 months — we get GST for March in April. That shortage contributes to most of the reasons for the so-called difference (in fiscal deficit estimates) between 3.5% and 3.2% of GDP. There is also an impact of a large number of structural changes.
 
 The priority obviously was agriculture, socially and economically deprived sections and infrastructure creation. On agriculture, besides a series of schemes announced, we have in principle accepted the principle of a farmer getting 50% more than his cost. We are extremely serious about implementing this decision irrespective of the cost.
 
 
 
  is a runaway success and, therefore, the eight crore poor households target is important.   is a very ambitious scheme and we envisaged that the lowest on the economic criteria — 10 crore families — should get Rs 5 lakh insurance benefit for hospitalisation at least once every year. This is India’s first mega social security scheme. The poor now get subsidised ration, we are working on housing, rural roads, electrification, toilet and a gas connection in every house, MGNREGA spending of Rs 55,000 crore and to top it, free healthcare security. The poor can look at the government as a legitimate guardian.
 
 
 
 In the last four years, the exemption limit was increased, up to Rs 5 lakh, we brought in a 5% slab, which is the lowest in the world, there is higher exemption for house property and benefits under 80C have been raised. This time, we have a standard deduction of Rs 40,000, which will benefit many. So, anyone with annual income of Rs 5-7 lakh can end up paying very little tax. GST has freed business of inspector raj.
 
 
 
 MSP has been increasing over the years and, therefore, what you have to fill up is the gap between the present price and the 50%. The effect will be marginal.
 
 
 
 I will be able to raise additional resources from longterm capital gains tax and additional cess. This year we will also get higher revenue from GST.
 
 
 
 Yes.The government has done a lot in that fight and it’s a continuous battle. That has increased the tax base, it has increased the quantum of tax.
 
 
 
 I don’t think it is fair to comment on this now.
 
 
 
 I have already said that the companies notified by the Niti Aayog remain on my agenda.
 
 
 
 I would not like to comment on an area which belongs to the RBI.
 
