PANAJI: The month-long   session of Goa   beginning on Monday is likely to be curtailed in view of the health condition of chief minister Manohar Parrikar. Sources said   is unlikely to present the budget and it will be tabled in the House by PWD minister Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar either on Tuesday or Wednesday and the government may go in for a vote-on-account.

 The business advisory committee of the House will meet after the governor’s address on Monday at 11.30am and it will take a decision on curtailment of the session, speaker Pramod Sawant told TOI.
 
 Sawant, who drove straight to Raj Bhavan from airport after meeting Parrikar in Mumbai hospital, said: “The chief minister will not be present on the first day of the session and he will not be able to attend the entire session. He may be there to attend a part of it. After governor’s address, we will hold an all-party meeting. We have to inform the governor and I met her to inform her accordingly,” he said.
 
 Sawant said, in the absence of Parrikar, governor Mridula Sinha would be received by Dhavalikar. But he remained non-committal whether the budget would be presented as per schedule on Thursday.
 
 “Based on the CM’s medical updates and what the doctor advises him, accordingly we will decide if the budget will be tabled or read. We have decided to discuss about the budget also in tomorrow’s business advisory committee meeting.” Sawant said he met Parrikar and interacted with him. “There is improvement in his condition. I have spoken to him personally,” he said.
 
 “Questions, private members’ resolutions and all other business of the House can be taken up in the next session or we can adjourn the House by a certain number of days. It will be decided tomorrow (Monday) in the meeting,” said deputy speaker Michael Lobo.
 
 He also said the speaker and he have spoken to the leader of the opposition (Chandrakant ‘Babu’ Kavlekar) about the need to reduce the month-long session by a few days, as the chief minister holds 23 portfolios and he needs to reply to questions tabled related to his portfolios.
 
 
