JAIPUR: In a bid to boost   conservation in the state, the forest department has installed 15 camera traps in   and   forest reserves to assess their population. The initiative is taken under the state government’s ambitious Project Leopard, first in the country. The 24-square km Jhalana forest reserve has been put under hi-tech surveillance to ensure effective monitoring and conservation of leopards which are listed at par with tigers under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act (WPA) 1972.

 Sudershan Sharma, deputy conservator of forest (wildlife), Jaipur, said, “The forest department has initially installed 15 camera traps in Jhalana to assess the leopard population and their territory,” he said. Taking a cue from the Project Tiger launched by the Centre in 1973, the state has launched the project to conserve leopards, which are plenty in number. Source in the state government said, chief minister   will inaugurate the project any time this month.
 
 According to sources, the images captured from camera traps will be uploaded in a software. This would give different estimations of the animal population size. The department aims at conserving the endangered animal by improving its prey base by mitigating conflicts with humans and controlling poaching.
 
 Raje had allocated Rs 7 crore for Project Leopard in the 2017-18 budget.
 
 The project will be initiated in a phased manner. The Jhalana forest department has identified three wildlife sanctuaries to protect leopard and its habitats.
 
 Earlier, the department had identified eight sites for the Project. Now, it has decided to start the project at three sanctuaries at a cost of Rs 21 crore on an experimental basis. The project will be soon implemented at   (Udaipur), Kumbhalgarh Sanctuary and Todgarh-Raoli Sanctuary. The proposal has already been sought from the Udaipur forest division.
 
 The project is need of the hour as leopard death has been recorded every week in some or the other parts of the state this year. A big concern is that more than half of these killings are said to be unnatural—caused by road accidents, electrocution or due to man-animal conflicts.
 
 
