CHANDIGARH: Immediately after his release on bail in the infamous stalking case,  , son of   BJP president  , has got into image makeover mode and engaged some professionals for the purpose.

 In a video, release on the Saturday, Vikas claimed himself to be a victim of politics by the opponents who wanted to tarnish the image of his father who is chief of the ruling party in Haryana.
 
 In the video, along with a statement, released by a media professional, Vikas has claimed that he was not facing any charges of eve-teasing or molestation either in the FIR or in the court. The video, along with Vikas’s statements drafted in English and Hindi languages was sent to media through e-mail and WhatsApp.
 
 Further “describing his father’s dilemma”, Vikas said, “Political circumstances were so grave that my father could not meet me or my lawyer, lest people start accusing a father of unduly helping his son.”
 
 Vikas, who was released on bail on Friday after spending around five months in jail, also stated that he was not asked about the “real facts” and “many people believed that I am guilty”.
 
 In his emotionally-charged appeal, he has also says that he had no words to express the gravity of the torture, trauma, unbearable pain and mental torture, his mother, sister and family had gone through. At the end, Vikas has appealed to viewers to “believe only in true facts and evidences linked to this case”.
 
 When asked for the reasons behind such an “image makeover,” the media professional, who has also been associated in the PR activities, said he had undertaken the exercise out of goodwill, and on request of his close friend associated with the Barala family.
 
 “Initially, the issue was not handled properly and because of that the family had suffered major damage,” he said justify being involved in the entire exercise.
 
 Sources told TOI that the entire PR exercise had been carried for the image makeover of the Barala family that was hit after Vikas was arrested along with his   Kumar friend in August 2017 for stalking   Kundu, daughter of senior Haryana bureaucrat  .
 
 While Varnika and her father were vocal about the issue and gave interviews to the national media, Barala family had been maintaining distance from media. Sources said it only after recently that professionals were engaged to project Vikas as the “victim” who was a “studious and a religious minded boy”.
 
 On his release, Vikas was seen carrying Michael Lewis’s book ‘Liar’s Poker’ and the criminal manual and soon after that his photographs visiting a temple were released to the media.
 
