Coimbatore: Three days after a TOI report threw light on the sorry state of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University’s ( )  , university officials on Monday revealed plans to renovate it under the   project.

 “We are already working on developing the garden. We want to expand and transform it,” Tnau vice-chancellor K Ramasamy said.
 
 Opening up about the restricted entry into the garden, the VC said that two university departments and a residence are located inside it. “The restriction is only because many youngsters use the place to consume alcohol. Several girl students undertake studies there and this poses a huge risk to their safety,” he said.
 
 A senior university official added that the garden was used only for academic purpose. “We restricted the entry as we do not have dedicated staff to maintain the garden. We also lack the resources. We had sent a proposal to the tourism department seeking Rs 5cr for its development,” he told TOI.
 
 The university plans to set up a  , sunken garden, rock garden and a flowing cascade that will flow for 100m across the garden and be connected to several fountains, to beautify the place. “We plan to set up several types of garden to improve the green space. We will landscape the entire area in such a way that more indigenous species are planted. We can improve the flora and plant more tree species. Most of the trees were planted in the British era. Also, we will install several statues there. Currently, the garden has only Thiruvalluvar’s statue,” the official said.
 
 The university also plans to set up a butterfly park in the garden and will plant more species that attract butterflies. “Studies are being conducted on the various species of butterflies that visit the garden. Based on those studies, we will plant appropriate species,” the official revealed.
 
 “If we get the required fund and workforce, we can completely transform the space. We want to attract more visitors to the place, which can be made more educative by adding name plates to various types of plant species,” the official added.
 
 Meanwhile, city corporation officials said they are waiting for the fund required for garden renovation. “Though the VOC Park Zoo and Vellalore Integrated Bus Stand are not parts of the area-based development (ABD area), we have sent proposals to the Central government to sanction funds for their development. Similarly, we would love to take up the botanical garden renovation work as well,” said an official in charge of the smart city project.
 
 Tnau had earlier signed a memorandum of understanding with the city corporation for bioremedies to treat sewage entering city lakes.
 
 
