 Souti Chakraborty ( ), Rajeshwar Seetohul (Ashok Ki Chinta), Dinesh Khanna (Ek Safar Parvaton Se Aage), Priyanku Shekhar Das (My Name Is Gauharjan) attended the session. Eminent theatre critics Sangam Pandey and Sheokesh Mishra were also present at the session.

  
  Neelam,  , Dinesh Khanna, Souti Chakraborty, Rajeshwar Seetohul, Sheokesh Mishra at Meet The Director
 
 Talking about his play ‘Aparichit’, Souti Chakraborty says, “The complex relationships between human beings have always fascinated me to explore them and the deep rooted thoughts in human minds which influence these relationships. Through this play, I have tried to bring in light the true desire of our mind.”
 
 Talking about his play ‘Ashok Ki Chinta’, Rajeshwar Seetohul says, “We do not have professional theatre platform in Mauritius. There is only one stage where we perform. The lead character played by Goodary Kumarduth happens to be my teacher in college and this is his first play. Thus we have reversed our roles of Guru and Shishya. This is the beauty of theatre. I think many people in India know about Ashok’s story but people in Mauritius don’t. We have tried to keep the story as modern as possible in order to appeal to the masses.”
 
  
  Artists from Srinagar gave a mesmerising performance
 
 Talking about his play ‘Ek Safar Parvaton Se Aage’, Dinesh Khanna says, “Many homes in small towns and villages have very little food to eat. When they prepare their daily meal, they sing, they dance, because to be able to have food is a matter of immense joy for them. We wanted to portray that beautiful emotion through this play.”
 
 Commenting on the play ‘My Name Is Gauharjan’, Sheokesh Mishra says, “The character of a successful artist bearing regular human emotions is beautifully portrayed by the lead actor. I was very impressed by the production.” Talking about his play, Priyanku Shekhar says, “This play is not about how successful Gauharjan was as a classical singer but is about her internal conflicts as a human being, her pain, her loneliness.”
 
 
 The 8th Theatre Olympics on March 24 also witnessed the folk performance from Naga Hills where artists from the region represented their traditional rituals and reverence towards God through their dance moves. Also, traditional costumes and accessories along with foot tapping music and dance movements by young Kathak dancers left the audience mesmerised. Folk artists from the valleys of Srinagar also charmed the audience with their soulful musical renditions.
 
  
  
 
