CHENNAI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call to post direct recruit IAS officers as district collectors to infuse young blood into the delivery of governance has brought the spotlight on mismanagement of IAS and IPS cadres in  .

 Out of the 32 district collectors in the state, 25 are officials conferred with IAS rank in the age-group of 42-58, a case that   sought to highlight as a reason for the lethargy in administration. A document detailing the sanctioned strength of IAS officers in various states, submitted before the   recently by   minister of state for personnel and public grievances  , said 87 sanctioned IAS slots were lying vacant in Tamil Nadu as on January 1, 2017. Of them, 60 are meant for direct recruit IAS officials.
 
 
 The fallout of keeping a large number of posts vacant is that promotee IAS officials, who lack drive, occupy key posts like district collectors.
 
 It is imperative to have IAS officers as district collectors in their grooming stage, keeping in mind the future of the country’s governance. But thanks to the aversion politicians have for direct recruit officials, promotees land key posts.
 
 The situation is worse in the Tamil Nadu cadre IPS. Out of the 76 cadre posts in the superintendent of police rank, 41 have been occupied by non-cadre officials. Thirty-five of them do not have IPS rank. Six officials on the ‘select list’ occupy SP and deputy commissioner posts. Though ‘select list’ officials are technically allowed to use IPS as suffix along with their names, the Centre is yet to confirm their IPS rank and issue badges. In short, they too are ineligible to occupy cadre posts. On the other hand, many senior IPS officials in the rank of director general of police, additional director general of police, inspector general of police and deputy inspector general of police are being wasted in non-cadre posts owing to the witch-hunting in vogue in Tamil Nadu for decades.
 
 Meanwhile, 36 direct recruit IPS officials in the 2010-2015 batch have represented to the IPS officers’ association saying their careers in the state are in shambles as non-cadre officials are occupying cadre posts meant for IPS officials. A senior official said the IPS officials’ association had in turn written to the government, seeking attention.
 
 “When non-cadre officials are posted in cadre posts meant for IAS and IPS officials, cadre management goes haywire,” said retired IAS officer M G Devasahayam. Generally, direct recruits are less amenable to political bosses, he said, but added, “To be fair to them, there are many excellent officials who come through Group I service. The age difference between them and direct recruits is hardly seven to eight years. But the promotees who come from the ranks are a problem. They neither have any understanding of how the administration works nor do they have the inclination to learn it in the fag end of their careers when they are conferred with IAS rank. Most of them retire as district collectors.”
 
