NEW DELHI: It was an   with a difference. As the sun set over the capital on Saturday, the hundreds who were waiting for medical care at   and   lined up behind a car, its trunk chock-a-block with food. #Iftar4All, a group comprising Muslims as well as Hindus, distributed around 400 packets — samosas, laddoos and buttermilk — to patients and their families. Most of them will spend the night outside the AIIMS  .

 Iftar organiser   said, “Part of our motivation was to do our religious duty. In the spirit of Ramzan, sharing is an important act of service”. Their aim was to feed as many as they could afford.
 
 The area outside the AIIMS bus station is teeming with people from across the country, who have nowhere to stay. His only possessions being a blanket, a backpack and his prosthetic leg, 28-year-old Ajay has been coming to AIIMS for the last four to five years. He has been living on the street for a month while waiting to get an appointment. “They used to let us stay inside the hospital till about a year ago. Now, we have no choice but to stay here,” he says.
 
 Sanjay Hegde, senior advocate and one of the organisers, said they chose AIIMS for this “good deed in a naughty world” because of the religiously diverse cross-section of people to be found there. “In our troubled times, it’s a way for Hindus and Muslims to come and break the fast together. Last year, we had a few inter-faith iftars but they were at people’s houses. Sometimes the distinction between a party and an act of piety gets blurred. That’s why we reached out to people in greater need,” he said.
 
 Many who are forced to stay there depend on such acts of kindness in order to feed themselves.  , a 37-year-old mother of three, has a nine-month-old son with a heart condition. Attempting to raise Rs 80,000 for his operation, Aarti and her husband have been trying to meet politicians to gain concessions, but to no avail. “We have been here for at least 20 days now. We try to find ways to get food on a day-to-day basis. Today, it is because of this iftar that my family will have food,” says the Gorakhpur resident.
 
 
