LUCKNOW: At a time when Dalits are up in arms against dilution of the SC-ST Act, a row has broken out over the   district police and administration directing a Dalit youth to take his "baraat" on a longer and circuitous route when he goes to marry later this month. The administration has drawn up a map for him and submitted it to the  . 
 
 A marriage between  , a Dalit from Hathras, and Sheetal is to take place in   in Kasganj on April 20. A report prepared on March 21 by the   and administration has directed the groom to use an 800-metre long route to reach the girl's residence.
 
  
  
  
 The groom's family had objected to the   village community's decision that the marriage should take place at an open ground about 80m from the girls' home, saying it would not give ample opportunity and space for wedding revelry including dance and horse-riding rituals.
 
  The groom, Sanjay, insisted that he would take out the marriage procession from the perimeter of the village up to the girl's residence, while passing by the houses of the upper caste community. "I have resolved to move on a particular route. The administration must help me as I am a citizen of India," he said. 
 
  He also approached the Allahabad HC, seeking protection on his marriage day. Kumar alleged that he wanted to take out his baraat by riding on a horse but people belonging to a higher caste were opposing this. He approached the HC with a request to intervene so that he could fulfill his cherished wish of riding on a horse on way to the bride's house, the petition added. 
 
 Owning a horse is seen as a symbol of power and wealth in many parts of India.
 
 Like most Indian villages, Nizampur puts a prize on horse-drawn marriage processions exclusively for upper castes, while citing examples of recent violence involving Dalit youth Pradeep Rathod in Gujarat when he rode a stallion.
 
 "My first priority is to maintain peace. No baraat in Nizampur village by a Dalit or Jatav community has ever entered into Thakur community area. How can I allow the Dalit wedding guests to move in front of the upper caste homes if that leads to problem? There have been recent incidents as well," said Shanti Devi, sarpanch, Nizampur.
 
  Police maintain that village rituals will be given precedence over Kumar's request. Kasganj administration had called 10 representatives from both communities on March 21 and asked them to submit a bond with the assurance of maintaining harmony. 
 
 
