GURUGRAM: The opening of two   at   has been put on hold as Haryana Vidyut Prasaran Nigam Ltd ( ) is refusing to give   (NHAI) permission to take down two electrical towers of high-tension wires which are coming in the way.

 Haryana Vidyut Prasaran Nigam Ltd (HVPNL), which is in charge of high-tension power cables and transmission towers on roads and highways, says it can’t give NHAI the nod to put the overhead cables into the newly constructed underground ducts because of design faults. 
 
 The NHAI contractor for the Iffco Chowk project, on the other hand, claims “all required permissions have been taken” before the ducts were built.
 
 At Iffco Chowk, there are three flyover projects — flyovers 1, 2 and 3. While flyover 2 (unidirectional U-turn) going from Gurgaon towards Delhi was opened recently, a 220-KV transmission tower is holding up the opening of the straight flyover (number 1) going towards ABW tower. Similarly, a 66-KV transmission tower coming in the way of the unidirectional flyover located on the other side.
 
 Saurabh Singhal, traffic transportation expert at Bloom Companies, looking after the Iffco Chowk project, said, “The cables of 220/66kv are stacked at the sites and also the utility ducts are ready for laying of cables for the past three and a half months. The work has been stopped because HVPNL is not allowing the laying of cables.”
 
 Three high-tension towers will be brought down to ensure flyovers 1 and 3 are opened. For this, in April 2017, NHAI made ducts in 1,400 metres for the cables to be laid. The electrical cables will be placed inside the ducts. 
 
 But HVPNL’s superintending engineer Anil Yadav said, “NHAI has not taken any permission from us for the laying of the underground cables. They have to pay for the supervision work done by our officials at the site. I have written to the NHAI on this and I’m hopeful that this issue will be resolved.”
 
 Refuting all the claims by HVPNL, PK Gaur of Gawar Construction that is implementing this project, said, “What approval are they talking about? All the ducts and angles on which the cables will be held was approved by Punjab Engineering College (PEC), Chandigarh. A copy of the same was submitted to HVPNL. If they had any issue with the design of the cables, angles or the deck why didn’t they speak up earlier? Cables worth Rs 25 to 30 crore are lying on the road. Paying for supervision work is not an issue.”
 
 The opening of flyover 1 will mean commuters travelling from Cyber City can go straight towards   without having to get stuck at Iffco Chowk. Similarly, those coming from Signtaure Tower and Jaipur and want to turn towards MG Road can do so after flyover 3 is thrown open to public.
 
 
