MANALI: As many as seven houses and 16 shed were destroyed when a fire broke out in Ghiyagi village of Banjar sub-division in   district on Tuesday late afternoon. The incident has rendered 21 families homeless.

 Located just below Jalori Pass, Ghiyagi is a densely populated village with most houses built in traditional architecture using abundant timber. Fire erupted all of a sudden and soon spread to houses. The villagers first saved residents, especially children and elderly, and cattle and then started dousing fire using water buckets. Though they contacted fire services in  , but being too far, it took too much time for the tenders to reach the village. Till evening, fire had completely destroyed seven houses and 16 other small sheds built to store fodder and other essentials.
 
 “Fire has affected 21 families,” Banjar sub-divisional magistrate   said, adding that while the blaze was controlled, it destroyed property worth lakhs. “We have given Rs 20,000, one month’s ration, tarpaulin and blankets as immediate relief to every affected family.”
 
 The cause of fire is still unknown. Like in most of the cases, sources said, fodder stored inside the village helped in spreading of the fire.
 
 Increasing cases of such incidents in villages of Himachal Pradesh are a matter of concern. The fire is devastating old houses and villages. Being geographically located in tough terrains, many villages have still no access to fire services while tenders take hours to reach remotely located areas. Some villages have narrow roads where tenders fail to reach altogether. Despite such situation, the government has no feasible plan to fight such situations and protect old and densely populated villages of Himachal, which are reducing to ashes one by one.
 
 On April 18, a massive fire in Khasni village of Himachal had destroyed at least 40 houses. Eight houses were reduced to ashes in Dageni village in February this year while in October last year, 25 houses were destroyed in Dahar village. As many as 56 houses of Tangnu village were gutted in January last year. Kotla, Solang, Malana and Mohini villages have been completely destroyed by fire in the past few years.
 
 
