When debutant director   decided to strike out on his own, after years of assisting filmmaker Guru Prasad, he didn’t have a set plan in mind, but he knew that he wanted to do one film with actor  . “When I decided to turn director, I had a bunch of scripts, one of which — a love story — I thought was perfect for Aniruddha. However, when I met him, he was not enthused, as it was pretty much on the lines of the kind of films he has done before. Even though I am a newbie, he entertained me and even had a lengthy discussion about what he was looking at doing next and I realized that he wanted an image makeover of sorts. Once I had clarity on this, I asked him for some time to come up with a story that would be new for him. I went back home and gave it a thought, and wondered why not use a   film for inspiration. I looked at films from his last decade and the one that struck me was Simhadriya Simha and his character, Narasimhe Gowda. I set about writing a story about how the village, Simhadri, has been since his death and what transpires when the hero goes there. In that sense, my story is actually a sequel to Simhadriya Simha,” says Ravi.
When he then went back to Aniruddha and gave him a narration, the actor was thrilled to bits. “He was onboard almost immediately, as the story is such that he plays Narasimhe Gowda’s son. We then asked   amma (Vishnuvardhan’s wife and Aniruddha’s mother-in-law) to take up the role of his mother and we had the perfect setting. Aniruddha, who initially looked at this film as an acting gig, was then hands-on in pretty much every department of filmmaking, to ensure that everything was just perfect,” explains Ravi. The role required Aniruddha to transform himself, including his look, body language and dialogue delivery and the actor, says Ravi, took it upon himself to comply. “He was very dedicated to the role and the film, which made my work much easier,” he says. 
 With the film only a day away from hitting theatres, Ravi says that he is proud of his product. “I not only got to work with an ensemble cast including Bharathi amma and   sir ( ), but also had a great team onboard, including music director Jassie Gift, whose compositions have lifted the film further,” Ravi says. 
 
