LUCKNOW: With   expressing his willingness to join hands with BSP and Congress to take on BJP, the saffron party is likely to face a united Opposition in the 2019   elections. Although both BSP and Congress are yet to respond, political analyst say it won’t be surprising if political exigency brings the anti-BJP forces together, at least in Uttar Pradesh.

 At a function in Surat on Monday, Akhilesh had said that there was a need for anti-BJP forces to come together before the next Lok Sabha elections.
 
 “Akhilesh Yadav has said that to defeat BJP he is ready to join hands with anyone, including BSP. His remark reflects our willingness to form an anti-BJP front,” said SP MLC Udaibir Singh, a close aide of the SP president.
 
 Although there was no official reaction from the top leadership of BSP, a Brahmin MLA of the party endorsed the idea. “I don’t know about the top leadership, but we know that if SP, BSP and Congress don’t come together before 2019, their survival is endangered. If the three parties come under one umbrella, BJP’s departure from the Centre is a forgone conclusion,” he told TOI, on the condition of anonymity.
 
 The Congress leadership is hoping for a re-run of 2015   assembly polls, thinking that with dominant OBCs and Dalits with it, the grand old party would be able to stop saffron march to the Centre.
 
 SP and BSP have run a coalition government between 1993 and 1995 to counter saffron surge in the wake of Ayodhya temple movement. In 1993 assembly elections — the first after Babri Masjid demolition and subsequent dismissal of the Kalyan Singh government — BJP failed to form the government in UP. However, the alliance ended on a bitter note.
 
 “The main cause behind the collapse of the alliance was the failure of political understanding between OBCs and Dalits, the two major supporters of SP and BSP, respectively. There were frequent clashes between the cadres of the two parties,” recalls a political observer.
 
 The poll arithmetic and caste calculus both project an SP-BSP-Congress alliance as a potential challenge to BJP. Their combined votes share in 2014 was more than 50% against BJP’s 42.3%.
 
 Similarly,18%Dalits,19% Muslims and 13% Yadavs — considered supporters of SP and BSP — and the section of upper caste disgruntled with BJP can form a formidable combination, says an analyst. “But the question is, will it turn into a reality? Political equations are not as simple as they appear,” he adds.
 
 
