Malayali director Jiju Antony had started the pre-production work for his film Eli Eli Lama Sabachthani back in 2015 and completed the first cut by end-2016. The film was ready for censorship at the beginning of 2017 but hasn’t got the certificate yet. The reason? The presence of too many buffaloes in a scene! “To apply for censorship, you need an NOC from the   (AWBI). We sent the film to the AWBI, but got a reply that the film can’t get an NOC as there are more than four buffaloes in a scene. There was no further explanation for this strange reasoning,” says Jiju.

 Jiju tried to point out to the Board that the herd of buffaloes was integral to the film and couldn’t be removed. “I haven’t heard from them since,” he says. 
 So, what exactly is the scene? “It shows a boy who works in a farm, and the buffaloes are just shown in the background. We haven’t made them perform for the film. Ironically, there is a scene where we have made a cat perform but that got a clearance. We had submitted proof that there has been no cruelty to the cat, of course.” 
 
 Meanwhile, the film was screened in a series of festivals in and outside Kerala. So don’t films require censorship for festivals? “Some do, some don’t. We screened it at the Mumbai Film Festival (MAMI), Bangalore Film Festival, Hyderabad All Lights Festival as well as in   in Kerala. At Bangalore they bypassed the rule by screening it in the World Cinema Section. But we missed many including the Pune Film Fest, which wanted to screen it but required a censorship,” he says.
  
  
 The festival authorities need to get an exemption from the   for a screening. However, five renowned local persons — from cinema, literature or media — need to certify that they have watched the movie and it is fit for screening.
 The director says that the film received amazing responses at all the screenings and at MAMI, it got a standing ovation. “We had given up all hope of getting a clearance from the AWBI but on seeing these responses, I now wish to get a mainstream theatre release for it as well. We are planning to approach the AWBI again within two weeks,” says Jiju. ‘’Since the film is set in Mumbai, it has more Hindi and Marathi than Malayalam, so we would like to release it in Mumbai as well.’’ 
 
 When we reached out to the AWBI, the Chairman, SP Gupta, said that the office of the AWBI has shifted to Delhi from Chennai and so the records for the film are currently unavailable.
 
