Prominent singer Ghazal   was arrested on charges of sexual harassment by the   police on Tuesday. According to preliminary reports,   had been associated with a campaign called ‘Save Temples’ for some time now, for which he had been running a web radio called  . On December 29, a radio jockey working with Srinivas, filed a complaint alleging that Srinivas had been subjecting her to sexual harassment for nine months now. She also submitted video clippings as evidence. Based on the complaint, Srinivas was arrested in the early hours of January 2 and taken into custody. 

 “The complainant had joined the web radio in June. Things were fine for the first two months. But then Srinivas started targeting her, she said in her complaint. Apparently, he would call her into his office and ask her to give him body massages; he also forcibly hugged her and tried to kiss her. Unable to put up with it anymore, she approached us and filed a complaint on December 29. Based on the complaint, we have arrested him today and will produce him in Court,” said Sub-Inspector  , investigating officer for the case. 
 
 Sources say that it was also mentioned in the complaint that a woman who worked as an attender in the office used to ask the complainant to cooperate with Srinivas saying she would have a good future. Ghazal Srinivas though, has denied all allegations. Speaking to the media after being taken into custody, he said, “I have immense respect for women. I used to treat the complainant like my daughter. Seeing her spiritual inclination I gave her a job. It is completely untrue that I had harassed her in any way. I don’t know why she is doing this to me. In fact, recently, when she had taken away my office keys along with CCTV footage, everyone had asked me to file a complaint against her.” Explaining the video evidence against him, Srinivas said, “I had met with an accident recently, my neck and leg were injured and I was taking treatment for it. One day when the therapist did not turn up, this lady (complainant) insisted on doing the massage on my neck herself. I swear that I did not behave in any vulgar manner with her.”
 
 The case has been booked under section 354A, 354 and 509, which is for sexual harassment, Assault or criminal force and word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman respectively. The court has sentenced the accused to 10 days in remand, however as all three sections are bailable offences, the Guiness world record holding singer would be able to evade the sentence.
 
