KOCHI: Conservation activists in the state have raised concerns over the central government's move to give the  , a 500-year-old heritage structure, to the   ( ) under the Union government's 'adopt a monument' scheme. 

 
 It is the first monument in the state to be identified for 'adoption' under the scheme, in which more than 90 monuments across the country have already been included. Under the scheme, private companies would become 'Monument Mitras' and will provide amenities like public conveniences and other tourist services as their 'corporate social responsibility.'
  
  
 Besides providing amenities like seating facilities and toilets at the Mattancherry Palace, TCI will also look after beautification of the site for the next five years while the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) will maintain control over the conservation of the monument.
 
 Archaeologists have pointed out that the scheme should be implemented cautiously without letting the private players to 'take over' the structure in the long run. "If the agency follows the footsteps of the Agha Khan Trust for Culture, which took part in the restoration of  's Tomb, it is a good initiative. The Agha Khan Trust does not profit directly by charging the visitors and they put up their name only in the brochure. But the government has been implementing the project in a hush-hush manner. The agencies, which 'adopt' the monuments do not have expertise on maintaining heritage structures," K K Muhammed, former ASI regional director, said.
 
 "Earlier, the work at ASI regional offices used to be decentralized. It has become more centralized, leading to standstill of ASI's activities," he added.
 
 However, the TCI is likely to face some challenges after 'adopting' the Mattancherry Palace. Only the first floor of the palace is under the ASI. The underground chambers of the palace and the land are under the control of the Cochin Devaswom Board (CDB). The ASI's efforts to improve the basic amnesties at the palace could not take off after some tiff with the CDB. Currently, the ASI is in the process of sorting out the issue. "We will have to settle the issue with the CDB before signing an MoU with the TCI, which has evinced interest in adopting the Mattancherry Palace," said an official with the tourism department. 
 
 The TCI's activities should be carried out under the ASI to prevent the monument from falling under the custody of corporates, said professor N Ramaswamy, member of the State Art and  . 
 
 "The ASI has not been doing anything at heritage sites except erecting their mandatory blue boards. I feel any move to improve facilities for increasing the number of visitors should be welcomed. The work conducted by private companies should be reviewed in a time-bound manner," he said.
 
 Meanwhile, CPI state secretary   slammed the move while inaugurating a human-chain protest in front of the palace. "Those who sell out public sector companies have begun selling monuments based on financial interests," he said.
 
 
