CHENNAI: The Justice Arumughaswamy commission probing the circumstances leading to J Jayalalithaa’s death on Saturday released a diet and medical chart of the former chief minister as submitted to it by her personal physician Dr KS Sivakumar.

 
  
 
 The chart has details of her diet and her blood pressure and sugar levels as noted down on August 2, 2016, prior to her admission to Apollo Hospitals. Raja Senthoor Pandian, counsel for Jayalalithaa’s close aide VK Sasikala, said Sivakumar has given a booklet containing Jaya’s health complications, diet and medical treatment from September 16, 2016 onwards.
 
 The chart was reportedly hand-written by   herself indicating that she used to note down her diet and medical details on a daily basis. It has detailed notes including her glucometer and blood pressure readings and even the exact measure of the liquids she consumed.
 
 Pandian said Veeraperumal, the personal security officer (PSO) to the chief minister, has said in a separate statement that Jayalalithaa herself used to dictate what she ate.
 
 The commission also released a short audio clip of Jayalalithaa talking to those attending on her on September 27, 2016. In the audio clip, the patient (Jayalalithaa) can be heard saying her voice sounds like the fans in first row of a movie theatre that whistle. She is also heard saying her blood pressure readings.
 
 Pandian said this is the last recorded voice of Jayalalithaa. This is reportedly one of the last few times she spoke before she underwent tracheostomy, Sivakumar told the commission, sources said. The audio clip was given in a pen-drive to the one-man commission.
 
 “Jaya asked Sivakumar to download an app and record her breathlessness and send it to Dr Narasimhan,” Pandian said, quoting the cross-examination of Sivakumar held on Saturday.
 
 Speaking to TOI later, Pandian expressed shock as to how the commission could release the documents to the media, when earlier they had censured the release of Jaya’s video by TTV Dhinakaran’s aide P Vetrivel.
 
 Addressing the press after cross-examining Sivakumar, Veeraperumal, retired bureaucrat Shanta Sheela Nair and Raj Bhavan staffer Srinivasan, Pandian said Veeraperumal gave reasons as to why the Black Cat commandos were not posted for Jayalalithaa at the hospital. 
 
 “He also changed his statement regarding all ministers seeing Jayalalithaa in the hospital,”Pandian said.
 
 
