MUMBAI: Two nephews of   came to Mumbai from Dubai to meet the don's younger brother  , who is lodged in  . 

 Kaskar's son Rizwan and Anees Ibrahim's (Dawood's other brother) son Aaris met Kaskar during mulakat (meeting time) in Thane Central jail late last month, police sources said. 
 
 Kaskar was arrested by the Thane crime branch and booked under the stringent act of Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) for running an extortion racket in the name of his fugitive brother, believed to be hiding in Pakistan. 
 
  While Aaris had a UAE passport, Rizwan holds an Indian passport, though he is mostly based in Dubai and hardly travels to India. Aaris travelled on a tourist visa and they flew to Delhi and proceeded to Mumbai by train, a police officer said.. The duo do not have any criminal record nor are their names on the Interpol list. 
 
  
  
 
 
 Sources said that Dawood has been worried about his brother's security in jail. He kept this information closely guarded and only his confidantes knew about it. Rizwan and Aaris returned to Dubai safely in the first week of January.
 
 After arriving in Mumbai duo had a brief meetings with Iqbal twice on alternative days at the jail through a distant relative. "I don't remember the exact date but duo had come to city, stayed at a friend's place in Gamdevi area in south Mumbai, hired a cab to Thane met Iqbal Kaskar on two occasions," said a police source. A close relative of theirs assisted them, the source said.
 
  He added that on meeting Iqbal, the two became very emotional and Rizwan wept seeing his father in jail, particularly due to his deteriorating health. 
 
  He also reportedly told his father that he should not have returned to the country. He was deported to the city in 2003 and was booked in a case of land grabbing, a charge that didn't hold water during the trial. 
 
 Sources said that the duo did not to go to their ancestor's house in Damarwala building on Pakmodia street or aunt Haseena Parkar's building at Gordan hall at Nagpada to avoid coming under radar of the Mumbai police. During the course of meeting, Aaris is believed to have conveyed Dawood's message to Iqbal. Aris told Iqbal that Dawood uncle was very upset over his revelation about the family to the police particularly regarding Dawood's only son Moin,'' said sources. 
 
 Police inspector   who is probing the extortion case against Kaskar had then said, "Moin is understood to be against his father's illegal activities which have given the entire family a notorious reputation worldwide and made many of them wanted fugitives.'' Iqbal Kaskar during interrogations had told police that Moin had turned away from worldly pleasures and had taken to religion.
 
 On the duo's visit, Pradeep Sharma declined to comment. who is probing the extortion case against Kaskar declined to comment.
 
 Iqbal Kaskar is the younger brother of notorious underworld don Dawood Ibrahim. He was arrested along with three others- Mumtaz Shaikh, Israr Sayyed and matka operator Pankaj Gangar by the   in September last year after a builder complained against him of repeated extortion demands.
 
 In 2003, Iqbal was deported from Dubai to India to stand trial in two cases-a murder case and the   illegal construction case. He was acquitted in both cases in 2007. After being deported, he made the Damarwala residence of the Dawood family as his home.
 
