PUNE: DY Kokane has been with the state forest department guards for his entire professional career and turns up duly in his police-style uniform at the Manikdoh leopard rescue centre, a short drive from  , towered over by the   fort.

 As part of his daily routine, he has to comfort and feed Ganesh, Radhika, Jiya, Jaya, Guru, and 30 other leopards, while also looking after their well-being.
 
 If names are deceptive, it is true to no end here. The forest guards have affectionately named all the rescued leopards that are being treated here, some of which have possessed man-eating tendencies. Many of the leopards were rescued from nearby sugarcane fields, after they had scared the wits out of the farmers, often as cubs. Operators of the rescue centre — atleast six of them are always present on campus — also tag the big cats with GPS chips to monitor them after they are released into the wild.
 
 The rescue centre, which the state forest department runs jointly with NGO Wildlife SOS, was actually born out of the proliferation of sugarcane fields and a nearby dam that only fuelled the human-wildlife conflict. Very few are allowed access into the complex, given its sensitive nature.
 
 “Leopards are not naturally forest-dwelling creatures. They actually live and breed in grasslands. There are large expanses of grasslands in most parts of  , but dams have been built on the rivers of the region. Moreover, there has been a lot of sugarcane cultivation, even outside the rescue centre. These factors have only amplified the conflict between man and the wild,” said  , chief conservator of forests for Pune region.
 
 On Saturday, also observed as World Wildlife Day, Khandekar inaugurated a new enclosure for five more leopards, built in a way that the space resembles their natural habitat.
 
 “We have to take all things into account. While we make efforts to reunite cubs with their mothers, or release the grown-ups back into the wild, we have to ensure that the old, infirm and the man-eating leopards are kept at the centre, often for their entire lifespan,” said   of Wildlife SOS.
 
 Khandekar said that having rescue centres like the Junnar facility will not help minimize the risk alone. Leopards roaming around the area are often seen scaling the boundary walls of the facility and climbing trees to make their way into the centre. The CCTV cameras installed at the premises have recorded such incidents.
 
 “A population study of the leopards in and around the region has been long overdue. Their movements, habits, activities and behaviour need to be tracked and documented. Based on such studies, we can develop comprehensive population control measures, like castration, or temporary release into the wild,” he added.
 
 
