CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government on Friday approached the Punjab and Haryana high court against the single judge bench’s order quashing retired bureaucrat Suresh Kumar’s appointment as chief principal secretary to chief minister Captain  . The appeal is expected to be heard by a division bench next week.
 
 In its appeal, the government has stated that the findings of the single bench of the high court, while setting aside Kumar’s appointment, are factually incorrect and against the principles of law. It has been submitted that the single judge incorrectly concluded that Kumar was enjoying “inherent powers”. The plea states that the judge has not mentioned which sovereign function Kumar can perform in the absence of the chief minister.
 
 It has also been argued that the single judge has failed to appreciate that Kumar could not act on anything unless it was first decided by the chief minister.
 
 In his order on January 17, setting aside Kumar’s appointment, Justice   had observed that it was unusual for a contractual employee to be given the powers of the chief minister and that ideally, these powers should go to an elected representative.
 
 
 “The factum of giving rank and status of cabinet secretary to   conveys that he would be higher in rank to the chief secretary which may create anomaly in the hierarchy of the administrative secretaries in the state,” the court had observed.
 
 
 In its appeal on Friday, the government stated: “…even in such limited and rare disposals as per telephonic instructions, a second layer of protection is built into standing order in the form of an ex post facto approval, so as to ensure that the directions conveyed by the CM to the Suresh Kumar are executed in their true spirit and no part of the instruction are lost in transit nor lack of communication.”
 
 
 
 
 
 The appeal also stated that the judge erred in interpretation of the standing order regarding his powers. There was no delegation of power as found by the single judge.
 
 
 The Punjab government has also questioned the local standi of the petitioner – Mohali resident   – who had challenged Kumar’s appointment.
 
 
 Kumar was appointed as chief principal secretary immediately after Amarinder came to power in March last year. He was one of the most powerful decision-makers in the Punjab government for the past 10-odd months.
 
