We have seen actors going great lengths to pull off their characters perfectly but acting as woman would probably need to elevate themselves another level, literally. Stars such as Charlie Chaplin, Alec Guinness, Robin Williams and Kamal Haasan have cross-dressed to play memorable characters. While some essayed out-and-out female roles, a few others used the feminine avatar as a disguise. So, fitting were their makeover – right from their make-up and dress to gestures and expressions – they left a lasting impression.

 As Jayasurya and Unni Mukundan are the latest to flaunt their feminine side in their upcoming movies Njan Marykutty and Chanakyathrantram respectively, we take a look at some of the others too in Mollywood who surprised with their transformations:
 
 
 In the first look of his upcoming movie, the Mollywood hunk, known for his macho roles, looked stunning in a pink sari complete with long curly hair, luscious lips and even a nose ring. The makers had released a video of the actor’s transformation – right from waxing his body to threading his eyebrows.
 
 
 
 
 The latest look of ‘Mr Perfectionist’ of Mollywood for director Ranjith Sanker’s Njan Marykutty has made waves – just like the wavy hair his character sports in it. The actor, who will be playing a transwoman in the movie, and judging from his previous characters, it’s quite evident that he would have done in homework to make the role stand out.
 
 
 
 
 Arguably the most famous drag queen in Mollywood was portrayed by Dileep. The actor, who had earlier acted as an effeminate man in Chanthupottu, transformed himself as Mayamohini . He perfected the voice, expressions and even the body language of a woman, that the audience couldn’t find any similarity with the actor.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Who would have guessed villain-turned-comedian Baburaj could pull off a character dressed as a woman? That’s exactly what he did in Dileesh Nair’s Tamar Padaar and Akku Akbar’s Ulsaha Committee. While those avatars only had limited screen time, the actor looked gorgeous and even managed to tickle the funny bone with his avatar, draped in a sari complete with jewellery and jasmine in Tamar Padaar. The scene also had Chemban Vinod’s character as they joined to celebrate Chamayavilakku, a unique festival in Chavara, Kollam, where men dress up as women.
 
 
 
 
 Krishna convinced the audience of his acting skills as Sreelakshmi in Thillana Thillana, which released in 2003. The actor, who also played the role of Bobby in the movie, was lauded for his performances man and woman in the movie. His female character had to wear high heels, a variety of dresses and also had different hairstyles.
 
 
 
 Jagathy’s female version in Hitler Brothers was styled after Kamal Haasan’s Avvai Shanmughi, and many could argue that Jagathy probably did it better. His character takes on the guise of professor Shanmughi towards the climax of the movie to unite its male and female protagonists. Probably, no other actor has managed to play an elder, graceful woman like Jagathy did. 
 
  
 
 
