HYDERABAD: Clearly, it doesn’t practice what it preaches. On one hand, the state government says it wants to provide a corruption-free administration, but, on the other, it is sitting on files to prosecute its own ‘tainted’ officials, especially those in police and fire departments.

 State government has kept at least five corruption cases, registered by   ( ) against police and fire department officials, ‘pending’ for years without granting permission for prosecution.
 
 Files remained ‘under process’ in 50% cases
 
 This came to light when an NGO obtained status of 10 ACB cases, where police or fire department personnel were accused. In 50% cases, files remained ‘under process’ with the government for several years after ACB sought permission to prosecute the corrupt government servants.
 
 A sub-inspector (SI) of police, K Nagendra, and police constable K Suresh of Lingampet police station in Nizambad district were caught by ACB officials on February 9, 2012 at the police station accepting ?8,000 bribe from a complainant, and arrested.
 
 ACB recommended prosecution. Vigilance Commission, too, advised the same. But almost six years later, the case hasn’t reached a logical conclusion. In response to the   petition filed by  , appellate authority and deputy secretary, home (special) department, Telangana, gave a response on January 30, 2018, saying “on recommendations of DG, ACB, and advice of Vigilance Commission, file is under process.”
 
 The government gave a similar response while providing information under RTI Act on the case status of few other police officials arrested by ACB.
 
 In a 2012 disproportionate assets case against then SI of Chaitanyapuri PS P Praveen Kumar, government response was: “On receipt of remarks from DG, ACB, and after examining the same, the file was sent to Vigilance Commission for its advice on December 1, 2017 and its return is awaited.”
 
 “By keeping ACB case files pending for years, government is protecting corrupt officials,” Forum for Good Governance (FGG) secretary M Padmanabha Reddy said.
 
 
 
 
 Two victims approached ACB recounting their ordeal while dealing with accused   director  . He’s still absconding and police checked with international airport and confirmed that he did not leave the country.
 
 Reddy has been on the run after a disproportionate assets case was registered against him for the second time in nine years on January 10. During raids sleuths unearthed ?25 crore worth disproportionate assets.
 
