NEW DELHI: The central security establishment feels a “unilateral” ceasefire proposed by the   government coinciding with   and   can be a doable proposition as long as counter-terror operations can be conducted on specific tip-offs and in case forces are attacked.

 
 Well-placed sources feel a ceasefire will also reveal if a respite can create the space for normalcy and some political initiatives after stepped-up counter-terrorism in 2017 and 2018. There is a view that the offensive, while eliminating several top terrorists, has encouraged new recruits to join terror ranks. The possibility of a ceasefire is also seen in the context of hints of a fresh engagement with Pakistan with some positives and reports suggesting Pakistan army chief   is willing to back “comprehensive and meaningful” dialogue. 
 
 In a sign of a likely shift, it was also reported that   recently invited the Indian military attache to the Pakistan Day military parade in Islamabad in March while Indian commentators see a reset in ties in the context of India’s renewed zeal in ties with neighbouring countries, including China.
 
 A ceasefire where security forces do not initiate operations but do not hold back if attacked or where a high-value terrorist is “spotted” can be considered. “If terrorists still attack security personnel, the latter will retaliate. Also, if there is confirmed intelligence on a dreaded, Pakistan-trained terrorist forces will not hold back from active engagement,” said an officer.
 
 In fact, this was also the template during the unilateral ceasefire declared by the then PM A B Vajpayee in 2000. Though the ceasefire was declared only for Ramzan, it was extended for the next few months only to be withdrawn in May 2001, essentially on public demand as terrorists moved freely in civilian areas and were insisting on being “accommodated” in houses and were creating a “nuisance”. An intelligence operative explained that since the maximum action is happening in and around Pulwama and Kulgam, a nuanced and focussed policy can be followed and implemented, said the officer.
 
 While conceding that declaration of a Ramzan ceasefire is essentially a political call, an intelligence operative said it could be a timely course correction considering that separatists are using counter-terror operations to boost recruitment. As per estimates, around 25 locals are being recruited each month. 
 
 At the same time, the concerted operations have hit the leadership of terror outfits and the pressure can make them more receptive to a ceasefire. The sustained and heavy retaliation to cross-border firing by Pakistan may also play a role in ensuring the Pakistani military sees some merit in exploring talks. The unabated encounters have seen stone-pelters target even tourists, threatening to hurt the local economy for a second year in succession.
 
 As many as 213 terrorists were neutralised in 2017 and more than 60 have been killed so far this year. However, local recruitment continues to be high. An intelligence officer said that while the number of terrorists active in the Valley was 150-200 last year, it is estimated to be close to 300 now. “A ceasefire may be a better option to tackle the local sentiment and anger that is pushing local Kashmiris to militancy despite the ‘success’ of counter-terror operations in terms of terrorists neutralised,” said an officer.
 
 
