It was a rainy season and I was on my way to my gym at Vytilla, when I noticed two abandoned   on the roadside, shivering in the cold. When I came out of the gym, they were still there.

 I felt sorry for them and took one of the puppies to our house. We used to have dogs at home when I was a child but my husband and children were always reluctant to have one at our house. In fact, they hated the stray dogs they came across on the streets.
 
 So my husband didn’t like it at all when I brought in the puppy but finally he relented. My younger son, who was celebrating his 12th birthday, 
 decided to take the puppy as a birthday gift from his mother.
 
 But within a day or two, the entire family had become her fans and she was named ‘Lily’, as she was from the wilderness. By the next day, my family were so much in love with the puppy that they asked me to bring the other puppy also home. I went to the same spot but to my dismay, found the lifeless body of the puppy in the NH road; it had been run over by some vehicle. Every creature in this world has a God-given destiny, we realised.
 
 Lily slowly started gaining strength and by the third month, we took her to a veterinary hospital, where we came to know that she was a crossbreed. We took all the necessary vaccinations for her.
 
 Lily was dear to each one of us, but what amazed me was the massive change she brought about in our children. Earlier, my children used to stay hooked to the mobile phones, playing games all the time but now they spend their leisure time playing with Lily and petting her. This was something we could never achieve as parents, to divert their attention from gadgets. She also changed our notion of dogs in general and we noticed that the street dogs we encountered earlier had started to become close to us.
 
  
 Lily is two years old now. I was someone who wished to have a daughter, but I was blessed with two boys. I feel that Lily is a God-given daughter to our family. She is the darling of our house and protects us by patrolling our house at night. She can be ferocious and never allows strangers to come close to us.
 We spent this Valentine’s Day with our sweet Lily, and took her on a long stroll to her favourite playground nearby.
 
  
 
