KOLHAPUR: Former union minister of finance   on Saturday said that the state of our children, especially their health and nutrition, is a matter of shame. 

 Speaking at the sixth convocation ceremony of D Y   held at D Y Patil Hospital premises, he said that former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi’s path breaking and far-sighted idea led to the creation of  . “The idea seems to have been abandoned. Today, our idea of human resource development seems to be minus child development, minus child health and minus child nutrition. Education will unleash the potential of the child only if he/she is well-fed and healthy.
 
 Hailed the National Family Health Survey (NFHS) as a comprehensive survey providing data on population, health and nutrition,   said that in 2015-16, only 62% of children had been fully immunised. “Among children below the age of five, one out of two is anaemic; one out of three is underweight and stunted and one out of five is wasted. The reasons are inadequate food, low nutrition, bad drinking water and appalling sanitation,” said the ex-finance minister. 
 
 Talking about population growth, he said that the country’s efforts to moderate population growth has yielded splendid results. The total fertility rate has come down to 2.2 which means each child-bearing woman will bear 2.2 children in her lifetime. The replacement rate of TFR is 2.1 and we are close to achieving that rate, he added.
 
 “In a few decades, India will stabilize its population. Demographers have estimated that between 2045 and 2050, the population will stand at 1600 million. The question is what next? In my view, along with the goal of a stable population, we must pursue the goal of a healthy population. In a stable population, every new-born child must survive and every surviving child must be healthy and grow into a healthy adult,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, 230 degrees were conferred to the students, which included 129 degrees to the MBBS graduates, 24 to the doctor of medicine (MD) and 10 to MS students along with other faculties. The university felicitated Arun Kumar Agarwal with DSc degree and Shahu Chhatrapati with DLit degree.
 
 
