No artists, no dance performances, no star presence – the   National Day celebration held at the Pakistan   in Delhi on Friday was subdued if not a quiet affair. The High Commission, that had invited singers like   and other renowned artists in past on its   Day, this year chose to go with a huge screen highlighting Pakistan’s journey of 70 years.

  
  Harinder Sidhu, High Commissioner, Australia greets Syed Haider Shah, Deputy High Commissioner, Pakistan
 
 
 
 Sohail Mahmood, Pakistan High Commissioner to India, who returned to the city on Thursday night, (for Friday’s celebrations) a week after he was recalled by the Pakistan government, hosted the evening. When asked about the highlights of the celebration this year, he underlined that they have not invited any artists and no performances have been scheduled. He said, “I don’t have much to add to my speech. We will be organising some exhibitions in Delhi, celebrating 70 years of Pakistan.” Earlier in the evening, he called for improving ties with India and said,“Since the Independence in 1947, Pakistan and India have completed 70 years as free nations. At the time of Independence, our founding fathers had envisioned an amicable relationship between the two countries. The relations, however, evolved on a different trajectory.”
 
  
  RS Jaura and Sohail Mahmood
 
 
 
 While the High Commissioner was busy meeting guests, his wife Mahwish Sohail spent most of her time with her yoga teacher. When asked if there’s anything about Delhi she likes or dislikes, she said, “The list is very long, but I won’t say which list – of likes or dislikes. We came here in August last year and even as there aren’t too many outings, we go to cinema halls to watch movies.” Which movies? “English, mostly. Somehow, I have not been able to watch any Bollywood movies in Delhi. I wanted to watch Padmaavat because of all those controversies but I was busy with other things at that time.”
 
  
  Joining in the festivities: Counselor Jiang Yili and Luo Zhaohui, Ambassador, China
 
 
 
 The gathering was huge with diplomats, businessmen and people from Delhi’s social circuit. The diplomats and defence attaches of several countries were present with their wives who were dressed in ethnic wear. While the chief guest, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, MoS, Agriculture, stayed briefly. Most of the attendees expressed their concern to Pak diplomats about Indo-Pak relations and when someone cracked a joke on WhatsApp security, a senior Pak diplomat commented, “We can’t block anything, we are not the US.” 
 Luo Zhaohui, Chinese ambassador to India, whom we spotted at a food stall, had only good things to talk about Pakistan. Even as he refused to talk about the food on his plate, he said, “China and Pakistan have cordial relations and so I came to show my support to them.”
 
  
  Tariq Karim, Political Counsellor to High Commission for Pakistan, with Aasma
 
  
  Mahwish Sohail
 
  
  Adnan Mohammad Jaber Abualhayjaa, Ambassador, Palestine
 
  
  Nalin Gupta
 
  
  Mini Bandra
 
 
  
 
