LUCKNOW: For Samajwadi Party’s national president  , winning over his party’s arch   chief   is no less than pulling off a   as he can now put up a brave fight against BJP in bypolls.

 Despite, both SP and BSP facing successive defeats at the hands of BJP in elections, even political pundits had not imagined that the arch enemies would manage to turn the bitterness between them into some bonhomie.
 
 Akhilesh was raised in a political atmosphere which was largely anti-BSP and hence his joining hands with an arch enemy is a stunning political development. Akhilesh stands to gain if he can win the bypolls with BSP support.
 
 Akhilesh gets the credit for striking this understanding with BSP since even after becoming chief minister he never caused any harm to Mayawati, her party leader or officers close to her despite being armed with vigilance and CAG reports that indicted her for the scandalous construction of lavish parks and memorials, controversial sale of sugar mills and scam in health department.
 
 Governor Ram Naik repeatedly exhorted Akhilesh to take action on reports of Lokayukta, CAG and vigilance, but he maintained a strategic silence and allowed the reports to gather dust. In a way he granted amnesty to Mayawati by closing the vigilance report against her government.
 
 In contrast, when Mulayam Singh Yadav was campaigning for 2012 assembly elections, he had promised to bulldoze the statues and memorials constructed in the regime of Mayawati. But when Akhilesh became chief minister, he did no such thing. Instead, when SP supporters beheaded Mayawati’s statue in Lucknow, he got it replaced with a new statue within 24 hours despite Mulayam’s opposition.
 
 Whenever Mayawati slammed or ridiculed Akhilesh, he responded cheekily by referring to her as ‘bua’.
 
 Immediately after losing 2017 assembly elections and getting dislodged from power, it was Akhilesh who first extended a hand for friendship to Mayawati to collectively fight against BJP. His slow and steady efforts finally matured into an alliance in less than a year.
 
 Akhilesh has not only managed to patch up with his arch political rival, but he is also wooing back the sulking seniors within  . He recently called upon SP’s founding member Beni Prasad Verma on his birthday after winning over his estranged father Mulayam after a family feud when he wrested all power and authority in the party.
 
 
 As SSP, OP Singh saw BSP-SP split, as DGP, he sees their coming together
 It can be termed a fantastic coincidence. While DGP OP Singh is the head of the police force on a day the SP and BSP are coming together, he was SSP Lucknow when the two parties broke ties 23 years ago. When the infamous state guest house incident took place in June 1995, Singh as SSP had drawn severe criticism for letting the incident happen. Mayawati had survived the assault by SP members as senior BJP leader Brahm Dutt Diwedi had challenged SP leaders and walked up to her room to rescue her. Singh as DGP now is the choice of chief minister Yogi Adityanath who had recommended his name to the Centre. 
 
 
