AHMEDABAD: A seemingly disturbed   on Tuesday rejected the request for  , who is currently  . The high court, however, advised the Centre to draw   of advanced fetus in   and effect changes in law to enable doctors to perform their duty properly.

 Expressing grief over the physical and mental trauma that the young rape survivor has to undergo, the HC wrote, “For centuries, religion has been trying to answer the question - how a loving and just god would allow his children to endure such suffering. However, a convincing answer continues to elude this court.”
 
 Justice J B Pardiwala rejected the 14-year-old's plea to allow her to abort the 32-week foetus in wake of medical advice by eight doctors from Ahmedabad and Himmatnagar civil hospitals against the abortion citing risk to the teen as well as possibility of live childbirth.
 
 The judge termed it the toughest decision. “The toughest decisions the judges have to make are really those that involve a potential life changing situation for the litigant.”
 
 After a prolonged debate, the HC said, “Though the medical community is still debating the ethics of late-term abortions, it is important for India to have the discussion.
 
 USGs miss 2nd fetus, woman loses a baby
 It was supposed to be a straightforward delivery. But as Meena gave birth to a girl, there was an unforeseen complication. She had a second fetus in her womb, a boy. Meena had two ultrasonography reports when she was admitted to the General Hospital in Gurgaon on January 21, both saying she was carrying one child. The government hospital team was, therefore, taken aback when she went into labour right after delivering the girl. Another child, they realised, was on its way. But the baby could not be saved. P 14
 
 
 
 
 After a prolonged debate during proceedings that the doctors were not sympathetic to the cause of the minor's suffering and their reluctance to terminate pregnancy, the HC said, “Though the medical community is still debating the ethics of late-term abortions, it is important for India to have the discussion and for the government to draw up clear guidelines for all unwanted pregnancies beyond 20 weeks. Cases cannot be left entirely up to the discretion of the doctors whose opinions may not be based on medicine alone.”
 
 The court discussed United Kingdom guidelines for abortion beyond 21 week pregnancy, where doctors can give injection to cause foetal death before the foetus is evacuated. "Even Indian government was urged by the Common Wealth to provide guidelines for safe and legal abortions to rape and sexual abuse survivors, especially for children", the court said.
 
 The HC has ordered the state government to sensitize police department, lower judiciary and lawyers about urgency in termination of pregnancy in rape cases. The judicial officers should be made aware of the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act (MTP) and urgency involved in dealing with these cases. The HC ordered the government to pay Rs 1 lakh to the rape survivor’s father, and to take care of her and her foetus by providing all medical facilities and counselling without making it burdensome to her. The HC asked the authorities to bring the girl to Ahmedabad civil Hospital for the delivery, and in case the family does not want the child, proper measure should be taken to give the baby in adoption.
 
 
 
