MUDHOL/NIPPANI:   national president   on Friday asked his party leaders to shun differences and work unitedly for another 29 days to ensure the party's victory in the state assembly elections.

 
 "There is no scope for differences in the BJP. Whoever is the party candidate, work for him or her in the interest of the nation and Prime Minister  ," he was quoted as telling a party workers' convention in Mudhol town of Bagalkot district.
 
 "The party's victory in the Karnataka assembly elections will be the precursor to the 2019 parliamentary elections," Shah said. Shah had asked media persons to leave the venue before beginning his speech.
 
  
  
 Addressing a women's convention in Nippani town of Belagavi district later in the evening, Shah said AICC president   was asking for an account of the four years of the Narendra Modi government, but people of Karnataka want an account of what the Nehru-Gandhi family has given the country. Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi, Rajiv Gandhi and Sonia Gandhi had failed to give LPG cylinders and stoves to poor village women during the 55 years of   rule, he said.
 
 Shah said Modi, who came from a poor family, knew the plight of poor women and freed 6.75 crore women from cooking on a traditional 'chullah' by giving them LPG cylinders and stoves. Since open defecation is shame, especially for women, the central government constructed over 7.50 crore toilets in the past four years. This is the commitment of the BJP government to women, he said.
 
 Accusing the Congress government in Karnataka of little concern for the safety of women, Shah said, "When I was in Bengaluru and Dharwad, women complained to me about rowdies attacking them in daylight."
 
 Shah appealed to all women who had gathered for the convention to call at least 50 people and ask them to vote for the BJP.
 
 Earlier in the day, the BJP president likened his party's fight against corruption to the struggle of Rani Chennamma and Sangolli Rayanna against the British.
 
 He was speaking to media persons after visiting the tomb of Sangolli Rayanna in Nandagad village of Khanapur taluk, Belagavi district. He also visited Kittur fort, where he garlanded a statue of Rani Chennamma.
 
