PUNE: City-based surgeon Tejas Baijal recently endured a nightmarish experience while crossing the ghat section near   on  .

 
 Baijal, who was returning home from Mumbai, was caught in a traffic quagmire caused by heavy vehicles that had occupied all three lanes of the expressway.
 
 “We were stuck behind these vehicles for 15 minutes,” Baijal recalled. “There was a long queues of cars behind these vehicles. Traffic police deployed in the ghat section were attempting to clear the first lane. At one point, they even succeeded in moving one truck out of the lane, but before we had a chance to move, a bus from the middle lane switched lanes and we got stuck again,” Baijal said. 
 
 For the Highway Safety Patrol (HSP), lane-cutting and the flouting of lane discipline by heavy vehicles in the ghat section, especially near   bridge, remain a major cause for concern. Multi-axle vehicles and trucks drive in all three lanes — especially at night — leading to a slowdown in traffic. Many a time, heavy vehicles cut from the third lane to the first to avoid traffic jams; several trucks use the specially-demarcated ‘small vehicles only’ lane at Amrutanjan bridge. 
 
 Vijay Patil, deputy commissioner of police (HSP), told TOI that while invisible policing has proved useful in reducing this menace, the ghat section remains an area of concern. “Trucks, private and Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) buses cut lanes frequently. We take action against these vehicles, and tell MSRTC and private operators to counsel their drivers,” Patil said.
 
 The HSP has set up nine posts across Bor ghat to ensure trucks and multi-axle stay in their lanes. HSP inspector Dattatreya Gadhave, in charge of this 94km stretch, said they have deployed additional manpower to monitor the ghat section 24X7. 
 
 “A policeman from the HSP, along with personnel from  , man these nine spots in shifts. Also, personnel deployed at Khopoli exit, Monkey Hill, Dattawadi, Battery Hill and near Duke’s Hotel are involved in invisible policing,” Gadhave explained.
 
 He said golden hours — introduced by HSP in September 2016 — has proved useful. During golden hours, heavy vehicles are stopped at toll plazas to make way for light vehicles. “We stop Pune-bound vehicles from 5-8pm on Fridays and from 8am to noon on Sundays. Mumbai-bound vehicles are stopped before ghat starts, between 4-8pm on Sundays and 6-9am on Mondays,” he said.
 
