Ludhiana: Civic authorities are offering dwelling units to people who will be displaced by removal of   on Jagraon Bridge. But this has not gone down well with the residents, who want 50 square yards of land each. Encroachments are to be removed to facilitate construction on part of Jagraon Bridge. Construction work on the bridge will start only when these encroachments are removed. Even though the land belongs to the railways, MC will remove illegal structures. Before that, officials have been asked to prepare a rehabilitation plan. 

 On Thursday, Congress MP Ravneet Singh Bittu, along with Congress MLAs Surinder Dawar, Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Sanjay Talwar, mayor Balkar Sandhu, senior deputy mayor Sham Sunder Malhotra and area councillor Rakesh Prashar visited the area. They had to walk from the bridge to encroachment sites due to traffic jam on Jagraon Bridge. 
 
 Congress leaders talked to the people who have been living in the area for the past several years. While MP Bittu and officials convinced some of them to get MC flats in Giaspura, others pressed the demand for small pieces of land in the city where they could construct houses at their own expense.
 
 Area resident Ashok Kumar said, “We bought this house for Rs 2 lakh. Four families live here but the flat being offered by the MC is merely 50 square yards, with small rooms.” He said it is difficult to stay in such small rooms with big families, so the government should either allot one flat to one family or allot land. He said it would be difficult for them to manage their day to day life otherwise. 
 
 Another resident, Veena Devi said they earn their livelihood by working at other people’s houses and have spent money on the construction of houses here. If they are shifted to Giaspura or Mundian, she said, they would not be able to visit the city every day and their children studying in schools in the area would also suffer. Moreover, she said, the flats are inadequate for the families living here for over 50 years. 
 
 MP Bittu said, “It has been two years since the bridge was closed by the railways. Almost one year has passed since payment of Rs 24 crore to the railway department for work.” Now that the contractor was assigned the work of constructing part of the bridge, he highlighted the issue of encroachments, he said. 
 
 According to Bittu, the land belongs to the railways and they were pressing for the removal of illegal structures first. But they (the government) wanted to provide relief to people. “We brought the forms and allotment letters along but now these people have raised the demand of land instead of flats. So we will have to discuss this with the administration, after which a final decision will be taken,” he said. 
 
 Officials said there are 97 encroachments in the area and they had prepared a list for rehabilitation in 113 flats as a few families demanded more than one flat. 
 
 Box: Weekly review of project work
 
 MP Bittu said Jagraon Bridge is the lifeline of the city and people have been facing problems for the past two years. Therefore, the bridge would surely be constructed by December, the deadline fixed by the railways. He said they hope to get work done by January or February next year and will conduct a weekly review of the project work. 
 
 Box: Bittu woos voters
 
 MP Bittu’s attempt to convince encroachers on Thursday is being seen as a bid to woo voters for the upcoming MP elections in 2019. Bittu spent one and a half hours with people, listening to their grievances and taking refreshments at their homes. 
 
 MLA Rakesh Pandey skips meet
 
 Despite this being his constituency, MLA Rakesh Pandey was conspicuous by his absence in the area. The other three MLAs, Dawar, Ashu and Talwar reached the spot. 
 
 
