One of the weaker sections of the economy is agriculture which provides employment to 49% of the population, agriculture scientist M S   said, adding that contribution of agriculture to GDP has been going down and is now at 16%.

 Here is what he has to say about the budget: Both climate variability and market volatility affect the income of farmers. The Economic Survey points out that farm income may decline by more than 4% in a year. Heavy rainfall reduces income by 13.7% and 5.5% for kharif and rabi crops respectively.
 
 The budget provides for greater use of clean and renewable energy sources but does not deal with the management of climate change in relation to farming. It is important to set up climate risk management R&D centres at the block level. Such centres should be supported by trained climate risk managers. Climate change could become a mega catastrophe and there is need for immediate steps both in the areas of  .
 
 The budget has provisions which can insulate farmers from   and  . The finance minister has announced minimum support price (MSP) for all unannounced crops of kharif at one-and-a-half times of their production cost. If income is less than the support price, the government has said that it will make efforts to buy the surplus produce of the farmers.
 
 More allocation will be made for building warehouses and for upgrading 22,000 rural haats into grameen agricultural markets. The budget sets apart ₹2,000 crore for an agricultural market and infrastructure fund. Several steps have been proposed for promoting sustainable agriculture such as organic farming. Horticulture will be promoted with greater attention to the marketing of tomato, potato and onion and similar perishable commodities through ‘operation greens’ with ₹500 crore allocation.
 
 Another welcome feature is to integrate attention to fisheries and animal husbandry with kissan credit cards.
 
 The national bamboo mission will be restructured in order to enhance the cultivation and consumption of bamboo products. The emphasis placed on self help group formation, cooperatives and other organisational methods which can provide the power of scale to the small scale producers is welcome.
 
 The priority given to rural infrastructure and irrigation will help impart stability of income and employment. Malnutrition is another serious problem and we need to promote symbiotic linkages among agriculture, nutrition and health.
 
 On the whole, the budget addresses some of the “hotspots” in the field of farming, the most important being the   and the market.
 
