Vadodara: Concerned over the spike in incidents of chain-snatchings, the city police formed separate squads and focused on patrolling to look out for suspects. The initiatives taken last year seem to have worked as incidents of loot in 2017 have dipped as compared to the previous year. The incidents of thefts too have reduced between 2016 and 2017 though the high number of burglaries still remain a cause of concern for the police department. This has been revealed the data of crime in written replies in the question hour during the ongoing Assembly session. 
 
 City police commissioner Manoj Sashidhar credited the strategies planned and executed by the police for the reduction in crime graph. “We have ensured that our teams patrol majority areas of the city, especially in nights. The biometric attendance that we introduced ensures that the patrolling squads don’t skip their routes and visit every point assigned to them. Also, the supervisory officers have the power to carry out independent checking at any time.” 
  
 “One of the reasons for reduction in chain-snatchings is our constant monitoring of the suspects and vehicle checking. We have controlled the local criminals and are now going after those coming from outside. The city limits are expanding so we are working on strategies to monitor more areas now,” he told TOI. 
  
 While the cops have managed to bring crime incidents down partially, they fare poorly when it comes to detecting burglaries and thefts. Of the 389 burglaries registered in 2016, only 88 were detected and mere 48 off 383 burglaries from 2017 could be detected. The figures are same for thefts where 70 per cent of the crime hasn’t been detected in both 2016 and 2017. Sashidhar admitted that their detection rates have been very low. “We need to improve on detecting crimes and it is going to be our focus now,” he said. The police officials cited staff shortage and cops being busy in security arrangements as the reason behind low detection rates. Sashidhar, however, was all praises for his staff as he said that all the complaints are being registered now. 
  
 “The easiest way to reduce crime graph is by not registering complaints. But we have been registering each and every complaint. Also, there are no delays in registering crime incidents too. Despite this, we have managed to reduce many crime incidents and it is commendable,” he said. Police department has also set up a co-mmand centre to monitor many city areas through CCTVs and this, cops believe, has helped them improve policing. 
  
  
