KOLKATA: The life of  ,   general of India and collector extraordinaire, will be celebrated at the Indian Museum on Saturday through a live music concert titled Yatra. 

 Arriving in India at the age of 29 as an officer in the Madras Engineers, Mackenzie was captivated by the cultures of India and spent the rest of his life travelling, exploring, surveying and documenting the ancient cultures, arts, architecture, mythology and natural history of India. In 1815, he was appointed surveyor general of India with headquarters at   in Kolkata. He died here on May 8, 1821, and was buried in South Park Street Cemetery.
 
 A collector of antiquities and an orientalist, he surveyed southern India, making use of local interpreters and scholars to study religion, oral histories, inscriptions and other evidence initially out of personal interest and later as a surveyor. His collections consisting of thousands of manuscripts, inscriptions, translations, coins and paintings, were acquired after his death by the India Office Library and are an important source for the study of Indian history.
  
  
 
 Yatra, the concert co-organized by Indian Museum Kolkata, British Council and An Lanntair, a multi-disciplinary Arts Centre in Stornoway on the Isle of Lewis, located close to where Mackenzie was born in 1754, aims to make the audiences travel through time. It promises to take them on a musical journey between countries and cultures, histories and the present, all set to a backdrop of moving imagery.
 
 The music and visuals will chart Mackenzie's journey through traditional Gaelic vocal songs of islanders travel, seafaring and military service through to the traditional Indian raagas and music, which Mackenzie would have experienced and encountered during his life in India. It also tells the wider story, a historical journey made alive and presented through artists working now, representing traditions in a progressive and innovative way.
 
 Yatra is the signature concert of the international Purvai project - festival of South Asian Art and Culture that engages audiences with the rich history that exists between India and Scotland. Bringing Yatra back to India and for it to be performed at The Indian Museum is poignant and befitting for the project, as Colin Mackenzie life's work and collection was dedicated to documenting, sharing and understanding the ancient art and cultures of India. The collection is recognised as one of the most important archival sources in existence about the late pre-colonial periods of Indian history.
 
 The Mackenzie's Collection provides the context and inspiration for creative collaborations between artists, writers and musicians. The concert will be accompanied by a special exhibition of Mackenzie Collection material presented by the Indian Museum.
 
 Debanjan Chakrabarti, director British Council (east and northeast India), said: "The year 2018 marks the 70th anniversary celebration of British Council in India. Colin Mackenzie's story of being inspired by India, its ancient mathematics and its culture, in the 18th century from a remote part of Scotland - the Outer Hebrides - still casts a magic spell on our imagination in the 21st century. Yatra is a musical tribute to the epic journey Colin Mackenzie made to India and immersed himself in its culture and people while mapping its landscape."
 
 Yatra is supported by Creative Scotland and the British Council through their   2017 fund. It is one of nine Scotland-India projects that has been co-ordinated by the British Council in Scotland in partnership with Creative Scotland and the Scottish Government.
 
 Dalbir Singh Rattan, one of the leading tabla players in the UK, leads a diverse collective of musicians to create and perform this score. The other musicians involved in this project are Aziz Ibrahim, Kathleen Macinnes, Kaviraj Singh Dhadyalla, Neil Johnstone, Rhona Johnstone and Jane H Macmillan. 
 
 
