NEW DELHI: The   on Saturday said in a   that the   needs to   on its plan to fill up vacancies instead of  . 

 This came as a rebuttal to the department’s claim that the white paper on the LG brought out on the government was a “misleading portrayal”. The government had on Wednesday tabled the white paper in the assembly, highlighting an average of 50% vacancies in key departments. On Friday, the services department had issued a press statement, which was later shared in the official WhatsApp group of LG’s office by officials in charge of media. But it wasn’t issued by the LG’s official email for press statements. 
 
 But since the statement came on the official WhatsApp group, the   government has opened a new front in its attack on LG. “In this press release, the services department has not talked about any plans to fill the vacancies in the Delhi government and has rather chosen to beat around the bush. It is very surprising that the department of services has chosen to ignore its core duties in a press release issued on the directions of its political masters,” the government release said. 
 
 “While the chief minister and the deputy chief minister have repeatedly written to the LG asking him to ensure that officers attend meetings, there has been no response from him. With this press release it is now obvious why the LG has not been trying to resolve the situation or taking action against officers violating service rules,” it said. The LG office hadn’t countered it at the time of filing of this report. 
 
 The services department had in its press statement claimed that between February 2015 and August 2016, the services department was being handled by the elected government. Even though there were 23,137 in February 2015, the elected government hadn’t moved for a single appointment, the services department had said. It had also stated that if these vacancies had been notified then, these would have been processed. 
 
 It had added that it was only after it came under the LG that nearly a third of the vacancies were advertised and work on filling up of the rest undertaken.
 
 
