A division bench comprising acting Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice K Vijaya Lakshmi on Monday recused from hearing the appeals filed by the state of Andhra Pradesh and its police who were accused of committing   on tribal women at   near Paderu in Visakhapatnam district. 

 The appellants said they were aggrieved by the order of the single judge who directed the state to appoint senior advocate Palla Trinadha Rao as special public prosecutor in the trial court, to assist the court in the Vakapalli case. The bench referred the matter to the registry to post it before another bench. Trinadh Rao shared the dais with Justice Ramesh Ranganathan in a programme conducted by the Srikakulam district legal services authority in the past and this was cited as the reason for the recusal.
 
 Earlier in the day, the bench heard the matter for a considerable length of time where the bench expressed a prima facie opinion that there is nothing wrong in appointing Trinadh as special public prosecutor. When the victims themselves are seeking his appointment and when the law provides such a facility to the victims, it can be done, the bench said. 
 
 Explaining to the government pleader (Home) the need for inculcating a sense of faith in the system among the tribals who were living in abject poverty and were leading miserable existences, the bench said that further delay in conducting trial in this decade-old case will not be fair. If the victims have faith in Trinadh Rao, how does it affect the accused police or the state, the bench asked. The bench also expressed doubts about registering a fresh case against Trinadh by police and asked the state counsel as to why the state is aggrieved in the matter. 
 
 “How are you affected? Your job is to bring the perpetrators to justice,” the bench asked the state counsel. The state counsel replied that Trinadh may not act impartially. Pradyumna Kumar Reddy, the counsel for accused policemen, said Trinadh is an activist who has written several books seeking justice for tribals and works for the tribals and hence may work only for the alleged victims while the job of the court is to find out whether any crime was committed at all or not, he said. 
 
 Justice Ramesh then recalled having seen Trinadh at a meeting in Srikakulam. Justice Ramesh and Trinadh were part of the meeting and hence the bench recused from hearing the matter. The case may now come up for hearing before another bench.
 
 
