Yamunanagar/Kurukshetra: After active participation in the Bhiwani Jail Bharo Andolan, the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD)-Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) coalition would take equal part in subsequent programmes. This was decided at a joint meeting of the parties at Kurukshetra on Wednesday.

 The meeting, first of its kind since the alliance between the two parties was struck, saw the leaders of both the parties discuss the prevailing situation in Haryana. The ‘insult’ to the players who had won the medals at the Commonwealth Games was strongly condemned.
 
 Besides discussing the outline of ‘Jail Bharo Andolan’ to be held at Yamunanagar on May 4, six resolutions were passed.
 
 Talking to mediapersons, INLD leader Abhay Chautala said among other things, one of the resolutions demands compensation to the farmers who have lost their crops to fire and a waiver of interest on farm loans.
 
 He said despite the Supreme Court verdict in the Satluj-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal case, the state government had failed to bring water to the SYL, forcing the   to start the Jail Bharo Andolan.
 
 The Bhiwani open jail set up by the state government in response to the Jail Bharo Andolan on May 1, lacked the basic facilities. “Now during the Jail Bharo Andolan at Yamunanagar district on May 4, our workers will not come out of the jail till the state government gives a written assurance to provide basic facilities in the jails,” he added.
 
 Besides Abhay, the meeting was attended among others by INLD state president Ashok Arora, Hisar MP Dushyant Chautala, BSP state in-charge Megh Raj and BSP president Prakash Bharati.
 
 The resolutions seek:
 
 Withdrawal of cases registered against the Dalits during the April 2 Bharat Bandh.
 
 Withdrawal of ‘bogus cases’ registered against farmers during the Delhi Andolan.
 
 Check on rising prices of cooking gas, diesel and petrol
 
 Disbanding of the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC)
 
 CBI investigation into recruitments done by the HSSC
 
 Reward as announced for every medal winner of the CWG
 
 
