NOIDA:   has sealed 11  , which are of six to nine floors each in   in the city on Friday. Located near sector 70, the   was carried out across 20,000 square meters (5 acres) of land worth more than Rs 80 crore by  . The buildings, which are in varied stages of construction have been declared unauthorized by the Authority and after giving due notices have been sealed. These buildings also face demolition, Authority officials told TOI.

 According to Authority officials, the buildings were being constructed on Noida’s notified land. “No one other than Noida Authority can give permission for the construction on this land and no permission has been granted by us to the buildings being built on Khasra numbers 319,329,328,362,357,361,359 and 365 measuring almost 5 acres of land,” said Rajesh Singh, Officer on Special Duty (OSD), Noida Authority. 
 
 “As per our Master Plan 2031, the land measuring 20,000 sqm has been earmarked for residential use. Authority had earmarked the said land for distribution to farmers as 5% developed plots in lieu of acquiring their lands,” he explained. “The sealing drive was carried out amidst heavy police presence. More than 150 personnel participated in the drive,” he added.
 
 Singh further said that Authority had pasted warning notices to stop all construction in the area as it was unauthorised and illegal, but the unauthorized builders have not paid any heed. “Hence on Friday we have sealed 11 buildings so far,” he said. “This drive will carry on till all encroachment is removed from Noida’s notified land,” he said. “We will also not shy away from carrying out demolition of these illegal buildings,” he added.
 
 On January 3 last month also Noida Authority had sealed 16 unauthorized buildings in village Garhi Chokhandi in the city. Located along the Faridabad-Noida-Ghaziabad (FNG) e-way, the unauthorized construction had been carried out across nearly 7 acres of land worth more than Rs 200 crore by illegal colonisers. “We have not yet demolished these buildings as some colonizers have gone to court, while others are in process of making representations against the sealing. Further action will be taken after due diligence to ensure no injustice is carried out,” he promised.
 
 Following the incident and toughening his stand against land sharks duping innocent people, Chairperson and CEO of Noida Authority Alok Tandon has further directed officials to work in co-ordination with the GB Nagar police and district administration against all illegal use of Noida’s notified land. The CCEO has also issued strict instructions to not “spare unauthorized colonizers who are busy taking unsuspecting people for a ride”. He further cautioned the public not to get taken in by fly-by-night property operators.
 
