KOLKATA: The shed built over three acres in New Town’s Action Area I to reign in stray cattle is still empty, but a raging bull is eyeing for plush air-conditioned space further down the expressway in Action Area II. Italian supercar manufacturer Lamborghini whose outrageous cars are adorned by the raging bull logo is scouting for showroom space at the city’s new auto retail hub near Rajarhat’s Eco Park. 

 Not just Lamborghini, Lexus and Kia Motors are also keen on establishing a footprint in Kolkata and are checking out the 500-metre stretch with glitzy buildings reserved for auto retail. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 The much-touted finance hub at the satellite township may have not taken off yet, but   appears to have hit a jackpot with the auto retail hub as some of the industry’s biggest names vie for space in this zone. 
 
 Several auto majors have set up showrooms on the 7-acre plot that was distributed among seven auto retailers from the city. Honda was the first to arrive, followed by Hyundai, Maruti, Tata Motors and Jaguar Land Rover (JLR). Many more, including BMW, are expected to drive in soon. Renault has also reserved space, while Volvo is next in queue.
 
 Binod Agarwal, the principal dealer in Kolkata for JLR, Tata Motors and Renault, has set up a 1.25-lakh sqft auto mall with a 50,000sqft basement that can park 200 cars. “World class cars need to be displayed in classy properties situated in smart neighbourhoods. In Kolkata, such locales would be difficult to come by and will be expensive. Not so in New Town where the auto retail hub has come up. The freedom of space has encouraged us to invest and experiment,” he said.
 
 The facility has impressed JLR India president and MD Rohit Suri. “This is one of the best JLR showrooms and certainly the largest among luxury brands in Kolkata. The roads are also perfect for customers to take cars for test drives,” he said.
 
 Sanjay Patodia, who has set up the nine-storied Austin Tower next door, says each dealer has invested close to Rs 45-50 lakh to create top-of-the-line sales infrastructure.
 
 On the other side of Auto Mall is the Bengal Hyundai showroom set up by  . There’s a large plot allotted to the Toyota dealer as well. Amit Manektala of Toyota Topsel said, “We have only just finalised the plans and submitted them for sanction. The building should be ready by 2020.”
 
 
