TIRUVANNAMALAI: After conducting an inspection along the Girivalam path around Annamalai Hills in Tiruvannamalai on Thursday, district collector K S Kandasamy categorically denied the allegations that the trees had been injected with acid. He said the trees had withered due to “stem borer attack”.

 The inspection, however, revealed that the state highways   had failed to protect and maintain the trees along the Girivalam path. Several other trees were facing death.
  
  
 Of the total 1,185 trees on either side of the 14km Girivalam path, 62 trees have withered on three stretches – Kanchi Road, Hill Round Road and Krishnagiri-Puducherry Road. 
 
 “Of the 62 trees, 56 have died and six others are on the verge of death due to   attack for nearly two years. We are taking measures to retrieve six trees,” said the collector who conducted an inspection along with assistant professors V Radhakrishnan (entomologist) and M Sivaprakash (forestry) of Agricultural College and Research Centre, a constituent college of Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU).
 
 Officials from the state highways, revenue, and forest departments had also accompanied the collector. The inspection was carried out after activists and environmentalists had alleged that miscreants had injected acid and chemicals into the trees to kill them. “We also took soil samples from all the 62 wilted trees, but there was no sign of foul play,” he said. The 56 dead trees would be uprooted. In the meantime, a survey would be carried out to assess the situation and identify spots to take up tree plantation in large scale along the Girivalam path, said the collector.
 
 “We will also take efforts to conduct periodical inspections to check the condition of the trees to avoid such incidents again,” he added.
 
 Assistant professor Radhakrishnan said the stem borers would lay around 100 eggs on the base of the trunk portion of a healthy tree. “At the second stage (grub), the   will drill numerous holes and enter into the stems and remain there till they turn adults. It will eat the tissue and hollow the trunk out. An early sign is – the branches start to dry and wilt. The trees would have been under the insect   for not less than six months to one year,” he said. 
 
 He said the activists had mistaken the liquid (discharge of the insects) oozing out from the holes on the dead trees as acid or chemicals.
 
 “Techniques like swabbing (mixing cold tar, kerosene and paint around the trunk) and closing almost all holes with clay and stuffing one hole with insecticide-soaked cotton can kill the insects,” he said. Officials in the state highways said that no tree had been felled by the department in the last five years as environmentalists were against it. Hence, the dead trees remained untouched. All of a sudden, people noticed the dead trees and started questioning.
 
 “Though we have permission to remove 11 trees on the Girivalam path, we did not take up the work to avoid problems,” said a state highways official. However, he didn’t have an answer when asked why the department failed to protect the trees from insect attacks.
 
 Retired professor of botany D Narasimhan said that once a stem borer gets inside a tree, it will eat the tissues. As a result, the tree won’t be able to pass on the nutrition to its branches and other parts from trunk portion. If the insects are found in one place, it can be controlled by injecting insecticide. “If the insects are spread over the trunk portion, we have to cut the tree and go for a new plantation,” he said.
 
 
