HYDERABAD: Overflowing   bins, flooded wash rooms and filthy wards littered with medical waste — these are the first sights that catch the attention of those walking into the city’s two prominent government hospitals — the Osmania General Hospital (OGH) and the  . Known for drawing the maximum footfalls, a thorough two-hour tour of these medical facilities paint an alarming picture with its sanitation levels being abysmally poor. That both these hospitals have a persistent overbearing stench that makes it extremely difficult for visitors to stay inside the premises for too long, is another story.

 And this is despite the state health department launching a mega plan to refurbish government hospitals to bring them on par with corporate facilities. But, as it turns out, it is the same department that has been sitting pretty on a crucial decision to improve the sanitation standards and security staff at the hospitals for close to 10 years now.
 
 
  
 
 Sample this: the Gandhi Hospital which is a 1,012 -bedded hospital on paper, in reality accommodates as many as 2,000 beds. So, while the hospital — as per its current strength of patients— must have at least 300 sanitation staffers, it has just about 156 of them working at the facility now. With this limited workforce the hospital also caters to at least 5,500 outpatients per day in addition too 2,200 inpatients coupled with a large count of attendants. Yet, there is no movement being made to enhance the strength of its sanitation staff. Similarly, the OGH too is awaiting an increase in count of sanitation workers.
 
 Apart from the acute shortage of maintenance staff, the negligent attitude of patients’ attendants too adds to the mess in these hospitals. “Since most the patients come from districts, they are often accompanied by four to five attendants. The attendants spit on the walls, throw food waste right outside the window in the wards and bandages right beside the patients’ beds. This gives rise to the problem of cats, dogs and rodents coming into the hospital in search of food,” said  , of   that works in the hospitals.
 
 PS  , president of the   (JUDA-OGH) seconded his claim. “Over the years, even the heads of departments and superintendents have got used to the scenario and do not do much. The sanitation standards are very poor in most government hospitals in the city,” he added.
 
 Hospital officials admit to sanitation being a serious cause for concern and rue how they are struggling to get more sanitation and security staff on board. “At Gandhi Hospital the sanctioned strength of sanitation workers will have to be doubled. Also the 20 lakh square feet area of our hospital is currently manned by just 103 security staff, which is too little. This leads to lot of thefts and must be addressed,” said Dr P Shravan Kumar, superintendent of Gandhi Hospital.
 
 The superintendent of the OGH was unavailable for comment.
 
