BENGALURU: In a bid to cut out the hassle of passengers waiting endlessly for a bus,   ( ) has hit on the idea of 'bus-pooling'. The state-run bus corporation will soon launch an on-demand bus service, allowing passengers travelling in a group to book a service through an app. 

 Under this service, BMTC will pick up customers from residences or offices and ferry them to destination by the fastest route with as few stops as possible. Passengers who possess monthly bus passes can request a pick-up at their location provided there are at least 20 passengers who will board the bus.
 
 BMTC admits that in its launch phase the service will not have the technology to connect with a passenger looking to travel in the same direction. But it will facilitate other passengers from bus stops headed in the same direction.
 
 Apart from convenience, the new service is expected to ensure 'friendly' seating arrangements for passengers travelling in a group and also reduces travelling time.
 
  
 
 
  A similar service is available in major foreign cities such as Helsinki in Finland, Chicago, New York and Washington in the United States and Sydney in Australia, but this is the first time a state-run bus corporation in the country is attempting this idea. 
 
 "On-demand bus services will allow passengers to choose routes instead of running on designated routes," said V Ponnuraj, managing director, BMTC. "We are planning to deploy 40- seater buses for this doorstep service. The only rider is a minimum number of passengers (20) with monthly passes to ensure patronage for these services. We can start a service on a new route only if there is a demand from passengers."
 
 Ponnuraj revealed BMTC passengers can soon hire buses on casual contract through the app for trips to places like  . "At present, they have to approach depots and make payment to hire a bus for a trip. We will soon initiate app-based booking as well as cashless payment," he said.
 
 BMTC officials claim the fare will be lower than app-based taxis. This will also help BMTC to identify potential routes that are high in demand. Once the booking is confirmed, the user gets the details of the bus and can track it on the app. She can then reach the pick-up point in time to board the bus.
 
  
 
 
  Many app-based bus aggregators have been forced to wind up operations in the city after the transport department seized their buses for plying without a licence. 
 
 BMTC has exclusive rights for stage carriage permit in the city and private operators are not allowed to pick up or drop passengers from different points.
 
 The transport department had earlier cracked down on app-based mini bus operators like Zipgo and   citing violation of permit rules. However, cab pooling services like   and Uber Pool also pick up or drop passengers from different points. 
 
 Private app-based AC bus services like ZipGo, Shuttl and Cityflo are popular in cities like Delhi, Mumbai, Hyderabad, and Kolkata. Shuttl, for instance, operates about 450 buses on 75 routes in Delhi, mainly as Metro feeder services.
 
 
