PUNE: Thousands participated in agitations organised across the state in support of Sambhaji  , the chief of Shri Shivpratishthan Hindusthan, but the presence of Rahul Fatangale’s mother Janabai Fatanagale at the Pune rally drew special attention. Rahul was the lone victim to have died in stone-pelting during the Koregaon Bhima violence earlier this year.

 Though Janabai attended the rally for a short while, she demanded strict action against those who instigated the violence that led to her son’s death. “My son was innocent and was not involved in the violence. He was just returning home from work and was killed. Rahul should get justice and the main culprits should be arrested,” she said while addressing the crowd on the riverside road near Shaniwarwada.
 
 Sanjay Jadhar, the Pune district chief of Shri Shivpratishthan Hindusthan, said, “The government should subject Prakash Ambedkar to brain mapping tests to find his links with the Naxalites and his role in the pre-planned violence on January 1.”
 
 Bhide’s supporters demanded the withdrawal of cases against him in connection with the Koregaon Bhima violence. They pointed out even chief minister  , who is also the home minister, had told the state assembly that so far, the investigation agencies had not found any evidence against Bhide.
 
 In Pune, the supporters had to drop their plan to take out a rally from Shaniwarwada to the Pune district collector’s office as the police denied them a permission. They instead gathered at the riverside open area and raised slogans in support of Bhide and Milind Ekbote, the Samasta Hindu Aghadi leader who has been arrested in the same case.
 
 Surprisingly, the turnout at Sangli, Bhide’s hometown, was comparatively low. While the organisers had expected more than one lakh supporters, according to officials of Vishrambaug police station, around 7,000 to 8,000 people attended the rally. Heavy bandobast, however, had been deployed at Sangli as posters in support of Bhide had come up at several places. Most youths from nearby areas such as Kavathe Mahankal, Jat and Miraj participated in the Sangli rally. Interestingly, teenagers participating in the rally were unaware of the nature of the case against Bhide. They just believed that Bhide was innocent and had no role in the violence.
 
 Nitin Chougule, the secretary of Shiv Pratishtan Hindustan, said, “A campaign has been initiated on social media to defame Guruji. I want to tell people posting things against Guruji that they should come forward. We are ready for an open fight.” Addressing the rally, Chougule said they had kept mum for the last three months. “Now, chief minister Devendra Fadnavis has said there is no evidence against Guruji. We will continue our protest till all the charges levelled against him are withdrawn. Prakash Ambedkar, Jignesh Mevani (Gujarat MLA) and   (JNU student leader) made provocative speeches which led to the violence,” he said.
 
 A relatively low turnout was also recorded at the rally in Kolhapur.
 
 
