MUMBAI: The Bombay high   on Friday directed the chief fire officer (CFO) of Mumbai to submit a report on the changes that need to be made to ensure fire safety in four residential skyscrapers in central Mumbai.

 A division bench of Justice   and Justice   was hearing petitions on alleged unauthorised constructions at   in Parel.
 
 The HC sought the report from the officer so that the developer and residents had an opportunity to give an undertaking that they would remove obstructions voluntarily.
 
 The four residential towers—three are 31 storeys high and the fourth is a ground plus 49-storey structure—have around 1,036 flats and six duplex penthouses on the top floors. In January 2017, the high court had ordered the CFO to visit the towers and submit an exhaustive report after examining “the fire safety measures installed, whether fire-fighting equipment /vehicles have free access from all sides of these buildings and if they comply with the developmental control regulations on fire safety.”
 
 
  
 In the report, the officer said the open spaces on the north, east and west sides of the towers were found covered as the podium was filled with soil and lawns and gardens were laid. “As such, there will be obstruction to movement of fire appliances,” the report said and recommended removal of obstructions. This effectively meant the garden and lawns set up on the driveway had to go. The report also said electrical cable and wet riser fire-fighting systems should be made accessible from the lift lobby, and the fixed fire-fighting system should be kept in good working condition.
 
 Lawyers for the developer and some of the residents contended the entire lawns need not be uprooted and only the area required to manoeuvre fire brigade engines could be cleared. “You cannot decide what you want to remove,” the bench responded.
 
 On a query by the bench, senior advocate A Y Sakhare, counsel for the BMC, said the CFO would submit a fresh report on the exact nature of changes required.
 
 The court was hearing petitions, including one by the society against the BMC’s decision to regularise unauthorised construction in the four towers. They have sought demolition of the illegal structures. The society claimed portions of the common area, including terraces, swimming pools and lobbies had been illegally enclosed and sold to those who had purchased the penthouses. The society also raised questions about fire safety and claimed that the irregularities and illegalities had jeopardised the safety and life of its members. In December 2014, the developer had submitted four applications seeking regularisation of the illegal alterations. In January 2015, the BMC had cleared them. The matter will be heard again on January 16.
 
 
