PUNE: The Shivajinagar court on Saturday remanded a homeopath in magisterial custody for 14 days in a case of alleged medical negligence resulting in the death of a 16-year-old on May 24, 2017.

 D M Kolhe, the sub-inspector of   police station, told TOI, “The   experts’ committee gave us a report. It said professional misconduct and medical negligence caused the girl’s death. Based on the report, we filed the first information report (FIR) and arrested the homeopath. He was produced before the court.”
 
 “The homeopath got the girl admitted to his 15-bed hospital and administered allopathic medicines. Though he should have referred the patient to a doctor of modern medicine, he kept her at his hospital.”
  
  
 The 16-year-old girl, a resident of  , had complained of ear and throat pain after vomiting at 11 pm on May 23, 2017. Her father,  , who is a scrap dealer, said, “We had just returned from our native village. We ate our meal together. My daughter vomitted and started complaining of ear and throat ache. We took her to a hospital, which is run by the homeopath, at midnight.”
 
 The attending staff examined the girl and advised the parents to get her admitted. She was put on intravenous fluid. “In the morning, the homeopath asked us to get her screened at the pathology lab on Karvenagar Road and said we should get her ears examined at Shashwat Hospital. After the tests, we returned to the hospital at around 2.30 pm,” Babar said.
 
 The doctors asked the girl to eat some food. “We fed her rice and daal. Within half-an-hour, she started complaining of stomach ache. The homeopath told his staff, over the phone, to put my daughter on an antibiotic drip,” the father added. The girl got some relief. “But soon she again started complaining of severe stomach ache. Another dose was given to her. However, she fell silent and stopped moving. The doctor said he had administered a sedative and told us to take her to Mai Mangeshkar hospital. When we got there, she was declared dead on arrival,” Babar said.
 
 
