Equity Linked Saving Schemes or   (as they are commonly called) are the great options for tax saving investment. But if you are considering investing in the   then you should know everything about it. Here's we give you five points that you should know about ELSS funds before you invest into one of these funds:

 
 
 It is a fact that ELSS, the tax saving mutual funds, have the shortest mandatory lock-in period as compared to other investment options available under Section 80C of Income Tax Act. For example, an ELSS has a lock-in period of three years, whereas a Public Provident Fund (PPF) account has 15 years of the lock-in period. However, ELSSs should not be considered a short-term investment product. Your investment horizon in ELSSs should be of at least five to seven years. 
 
 
 
 
 What puts off most of the new investors from ELSS is the fact that it invests mostly in stocks and hence carries a higher risk. But you can minimize the risk by having a long-time investment horizon in ELSS. And that's why it is advisable to keep investing in ELSS even after 3 years of the lock-in period. The only way to beat the volatility of the market and to make superior returns from stocks is by staying invested for a long period. 
 
 
 
 
 ELSS is an ideal way to begin your investment in the equity market. Since ELSS come with a mandatory lock-in period of three years, it gives investors a chance to get used to the volatility of the stock market. It would be a good equity market debut for many investors for their future investment in other equity mutual fund schemes.
 
 
 
 
 The Section 80C of the Income Tax Act allows you to claim the tax deduction on investment up to Rs 1.5 lakh only. The Section 80C is an overcrowded section where many investment options qualify for tax deduction, for example, PPF, EPF, FD, NPS, NSC, ULIP etc. So, you need to calculate before finalizing the amount you would be investing in ELSS funds because, if you invest more than the required amount, it won't give you extra deduction under Section 80C.
 
 
 
 
 Yes, ELSSs hold strong potential to offer good returns because they invest mostly in equity stocks. However, you have to be realistic about your expectation from the returns. For better returns, you need to be invested for a longer term. 
 
 
 : Calculate your Tax 
 
