GURUGRAM: A workshop on road safety for   was conducted on Tuesday as part of the   campaign which aims to reduce road fatalities. 

 A total of 115 persons died and 273 were injured in 286 accidents between January and March 2018. Earlier in 2017, 481 persons died and 1,189 were injured in 1,214 accidents across the district.
 
 
  
 The campaign was launched in May 2017 after transport department officials realised road fatalities were not just a traffic policing issue but also required changes in road engineering. Nearly a hundred engineers from civic departments, including  ,  ,  ,  ,  , attended the workshop which included sessions on inclusive streets, universal accessibility, child-friendly streets, making of space while ensuring safety of road users, rethinking urban highways, planning streets for all, etc.
 
 The death rate in accidents in the city was 14% in 2016, which reduced to 11% in 2017, thanks to efforts by traffic officials. But a series of experiments by officials working with the Haryana Vision Zero campaign across 10 districts, including Gurugram, Ambala, Kurukshetra, Karnal, Panipat, Sonipat, Rewari, Jhajjar, Rohtak and Hisar, from May 2017 till date revealed that road engineering flaws caused a number of accidents. There are 48 danger spots across the 10 districts, including 15 junctions, which require improvement. A few of these junctions are Sector 17/18 T-Point, Hanuman Chowk, Palam Vihar Mod T-Point, Bakhtawar Chowk and Jwala Mill T-Point.
 
 “Every month, different 40km stretches were examined. Investigations at nearly 415 accident sites across Haryana have been conducted in the past 11 months and 270 engineering changes have been implemented in these areas,” said  , head, integrated transport, WRI India. 
 
 Vinay Pratap Singh, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, said the safety of road users depended on road infrastructure and design. “The way a vehicle is driven on the road depends on the engineer as much as it depends on the driver. If the engineering can compel people to drive in designated lanes, it will reduce accidents. Even slight changes can give big results,” he said.
 
 V Umashankar Singh, CEO, GMDA, said that engineers needed to redesign junctions and internal roads, keeping pedestrians, vendors, two-wheeler vehicles and cyclists in mind. “Often the roadsides are encroached upon by vendors and pedestrians. Proper design will give ample space to all categories of road users,” he said.
 
 Yashpal Yadav, MCG commissioner, said, “There should be separate lanes for cyclists, two-wheelers, small and heavy vehicle-users. Most roads in the district are wide enough for separate lanes but become narrow as the roadsides are used for parking. A road should ensure easy movement of traffic and the MCG will provide assistance to engineers for the same,” he said.
 
 According to the transport department officials, cities need roads and highways but the same have been planned out in a few cities only. “Urban highways should prioritise the rapid movement of sub-urban and inter-city buses and trucks. It should have exclusive lanes for buses to ensure high-capacity passenger movement,” said R K Singh, secretary, RTA, Gurugram.
 
 Raj Kumar, a road engineering expert and member of Haryana road safety association, said, “Road engineering is one of the main reasons behind accidents. While building roads, flyovers and underpasses, there is a need to focus on it.”
 
 
