NEW YORK: Holed up in a swish Marriott hotel suite facing New York City's Central Park with his cell phone switched off and receiving no calls,   could well be contemplating the rise and fall of India's first globally branded diamond business, exemplified by his boutique store right around the corner at 734 Madison Avenue.

 
 To the right of the Nirav Modi store is Kwiat, a family-owned house of diamond jewelry design going back to 1907. To the left is the luxury Swiss watch manufacture Vacheron Constantin, founded in 1755. Across the street is Chanel, Givenchy, Roberto Cavalli and other pricey brands that form the core and lore of the world of high fashion.
 
 According to an NDTV report, there was much activity at the apartment on Wednesday night, when many people gathered there around the same time the news of the giant bank scam broke in India. Hotel staff claimed to have seen 48-year-old Modi, who is unusually reticent, well into the night. Wife Ami was seen entering and exiting the building frequently during the day.
 
 On Thursday, staff at the swish Marriott apartment said Nirav and Ami were out, only his children were home. "The news is only in India, he is safe in America right?" an employee questioned.
 
 On this bleak winter day, the Nirav Modi store was open and a store manager, who gave her first name as Tatiana and politely declined to give her last name, had a spare, cryptic statement about the man said to be on the lam from India after allegedly defrauding one of the country premier banks: "This matter has no affiliation, legal or otherwise with Firestar International Ltd which is the flagship enterprise of Mr. Nirav Modi," she said rapidly.
 
 No other questions were entertained and the conversation was terminated abruptly when she was asked if Modi would address allegations relating to his transactions with the  .
 
 Of course, it is not hard to trace Tatiana Waldman's association with Nirav Modi. She was a sales associate with Cartier for eight years before joining Nirav Modi in January 2016 as a ''high jewelry specialist'' after a brief stint with De Grisogono. That would have been just months after the Mumbaiborn, Antwerp-raised Indian diamantaire opened his first stores in New York City and Hong Kong. Stores in Beijing, Macau, Mumbai, New Delhi, Hawaii, and Las Vegas followed, in keeping with Modi's ambitious vision to open down a staggering 100 stores worldwide by 2025, a feat that would have eclipsed even the legendary Harry Winston.
 
 
