KOLKATA: Kolkata on Wednesday witnessed its first public display of “ghar wapsi” with 16 members of a Muslim family, who had “been re-converted to Hinduism”, being showcased on the dais of rightwing outfit Hindu Samhati.

 Hindu Samhati founder   said his outfit had been doing this “ghar wapsi” programme for some time but now decided to bring “reconverted people” onto the public stage as “the time was right”. He borrowed from the title of a 1996 book by American political scientist  , ‘The Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of World Order’, to explain why the “time was right”: “The world is witnessing a clash of civilisations,” he said.
 
 “I appeal to our activists to reach out to villages and bring back to the mainstream all Muslims who were forced to give up their original faith and religion under threat,” Ghosh said.
 
 But the fact that the organisers were not looking for too much of public scrutiny became evident — painfully for a section of the media — a little later into the event, when some of the organisers chased mediapersons and thrashed one of them for “daring to talk” to the family and ask them if they had “become Hindus again” under any pressure.
 
 Cops later arrested Ghosh and three others for the attack on media and indulging in hate speech. CM   criticised the attack on media and the outfit’s efforts to divide communities.
 
 The outfit lined up 16 members of a Muslim family on the dais at  , claiming that they had reembraced the Hindu religion. “This is not a conversion but a homecoming for these people who were Hindus at one point of time,” Ghosh said.
 
 Things were fine till the media tried to talk to Hussein Ali and his wife, Mayna Bibi, who were sitting on the dais. Some Hindu Samhati members, wearing saffron bands, chased the journalists and thrashed one of them for getting too close to the family and asking them their names and whether they had “reconverted” under pressure.
 
 Organisers of the “ghar wapsi” event chased mediapersons and thrashed one of them for “daring to talk” to the family and ask them if they had “become Hindus again” under any pressure
 
 
