MUMBAI: All residents of Ajitkumar co-operative housing society in Goregaon (E) are set to get 25% extra carpet area owing to the redevelopment project they’ve recently taken up – a project many builders earlier refused saying it was financially not feasible. 

 Similarly, 12 members of Chitra CHS in Chembur are to get one additional flat after redevelopment besides a Rs32 lakh corpus each, which will make the society maintenance-free. As society members own the plot, ownership and development rights will stay with them even at the time of reconstruction. 
 
 Though the   (Mumbai Bank) mooted a selfredevelopment scheme for cooperative housing societies in 2015 so societies could acts as developers by appointing architects and contractors instead of looking for a builder, it is only now that the scheme, the brain child of town planner Chandrashekhar Prabhu and implemented with the help of government agencies such as   and Mhada, has got a push, with CM   issuing directives to Mhada on Monday to extend planning and processing support for it. 
 
 
  
  
 
 Experts said 10,000 of Mumbai’s 40,000 societies could benefit, with the bank willing to extend a loan of up to Rs50 crore for every project. 
 
 “Had we given the job to a developer, he would have sold the additional flats to earn profit and earned from development rights and ownership of land in the long run. Also, flat possession would have been at his mercy. These disadvantages have now been negated,” said Krushnakant Kadam, secretary of Chitra CHS. 
 
 Ajit Thakur, secretary of  , said processing of project approvals has been fast, and so is construction, as the bank, as a government entity, has tied up with state agencies to expedite formalities. The bank has third-party experts to scrutinize project proposals before giving loans. 
 
 “A society can appoint a consultant to prepare a plan. Premiums to be paid to BMC/Mhada, shifting and other costs are being taken care of by the bank. The scheme’s only limitations are that all society residents need to unanimously pass the proposal and make repayments in 7 years,” said an expert. 
 
 Fadnavis said the government will make matters easy for societies by bringing all authorities under a single-window system. “All permissions will be brought under one roof to ensure people do not have to run from one government office to another,” he said at an event organised by Mumbai Bank. 
 
 The CM said the state will appoint Mhada as planning agency. He said some developers had reduced Mumbaikars to being ‘dhobi ka kutta, na ghar ka na ghat ka,’ and his government was looking to change this. Kadam and Thakur said since all society members had got benefits in terms of space and finances, it would be easy to repay loans. “More space means families will stay closer and together without having to buy flats far away,” they added.
 
  
  
 
