JAIPUR: Cash-strapped   (JDA) is likely to write a letter to   (NHAI) seeking funds to acquire remaining land for the   project.

 The amount provided by the NHAI will be deducted from Rs 350 crore which is proposed to be given to JDA in 10 years. A JDA official source said, “At present the financial condition of JDA is critical. As per agreement, NHAI would provide Rs 35 crore to JDA every year. It would also provide 8% interest to the authority. The JDA will receive total amount of Rs 515 crore. We will request NHAI to provide the amount in advance so that land acquisition can be done.”
 
 Due to financial crisis, the JDA has failed to acquire 26 hectares of land for constructing clover-leaves and flyovers. According to sources, the NHAI will spend Rs 238 crore to construct clover-leaves and flyovers. The JDA had earlier proposed an overbridge to cross Tonk Road. Similarly, construction of clover-leaf interchanges was proposed on Agra and Ajmer roads.
 
 “As land was not provided on time, the NHAI was not able to invite tenders for these structures along with transport corridor. Now, it would take minimum four months to complete the entire tender process. To avoid further delay in the project JDA has sought NHAI’s financial assistance,” added the official.
 
 A senior JDA official informed TOI that farmers whose land will be acquired to construct clover-leaf on   have agreed to surrender their land. These farmers will be provided with developed land in the project as compensation. However, the civic body is facing difficulties to acquire 12 hectare land at Agra Road end.
 
 “As land of many commercial establishments, including a petrol pump, will be acquired, the farmers are demanding cash compensation. It would be nearly impossible for cash-strapped JDA to provide compensation of Rs 150 crore approximately,” the official added. 
 
 Sources in the department said there will be no utility of the Ring Road project till the time overbridges and flyovers are constructed. For Rs 810 crore Ring Road project, the NHAI has awarded work to Haryana-based firm, Gawar Construction.
 
 An official said, “On November 1, the NHAI opened the bid to finalise the company. Around 15 companies participated in the tender process. Work was awarded to Gawar Construction, which quoted the lowest bid.”
 
 
