HYDERABAD: Two years after signing a Memorandum of Understanding, the ‘Hyderabad Security Cluster’ ( ) is all set to take off next month, making it the first cyber security cluster in the country. While a search for a physical space for housing this intended cyber security ‘magnet’ is on, three institutions have readily offered ‘space’ for the same.

 Once launched, the HSC will bring together security agencies of national and international importance, governments, research and knowledge institutions and cyber security businesses — much on the lines of   (HSD) that is currently the largest cyber security cluster in the world.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Experts said that this move to bring all stakeholders and security agencies onto one platform will help in effective collaboration to deal with cyber crime and warfare. “Right now, the biggest challenge in cyber security is the lack of coordination, which the HSC will address. The HSC’s work is at quite an advanced stage and as per the discussions with our core team, we are planning to launch it next month. There is a huge potential in terms of innovation, new product development and cyber warfare with all institutions coming together,” said  , head of solutions,  , and one of the founding fathers of the HSC. He added that any company or institution which has a cyber security need can reach out to the HSC for a solution.
 
 Giving a sneak peek into the kind of projects that the centre would handle, task force member and founder of E2 Labs, Zaki Qureshey said, “The HSC will be working in areas of cyber forensics, critical infrastructure, national security, counter terrorism and electronic warfare. Also, a lot of research and innovation will happen on a collaborative model. The HSC will become the hub for cyber security and help in setting up satellite cyber security clusters in Tier I and Tier II cities across the country. Cyber warriors will also be trained to combat cyber threat to   security, banking and the like.”
 
 The first initiative of the HSC —   Summer school — will be kickstarted in July. “The HSD and the Netherlands will hand hold, share knowledge and work closely on the alliance between HSD and HSC for setting up the cluster. The basic aim of the HSC is to build an imperative ecosystem on cyber security, focus on capacity building and the PPP model which the Netherlands has expertise in. HSD and HSC have scheduled to organise a summer school in July. A softlanding programme for Dutch companies who want exposure in the Indian market and vice versa are also being planned under this corporation,” said Vikas Kohli, senior policy advisor, The  , adding that the initiatives would give a cutting edge to cyber security students and young professionals.
 
