GURUGRAM: High drama prevailed at a prominent shopping mall on MG Road on Wednesday evening when a 32-year-old man was nabbed by visitors for allegedly molesting three women. The accused, a plywood   in Gurugram, was subsequently handed over to police by MGF Metropolitan mall’s  . Cops said he was booked on charges of sexual harassment, and produced in a city court on Thursday, which sent him to judicial custody for 14 days.

 One of the three women was a 26-year-old woman, originally from Gurugram but currently pursuing her higher studies in the US. She came to the mall along with her friends. The woman alleged the accused touched her inappropriately.
 
 A middle-aged man, riding an elevator with the woman and her friends, also raised a similar complaint after seeing the accused groping another woman rider.
 
 “Around 7 pm on Wednesday when I was on the second floor of the mall, the man molested me. Sensing it to be an intentional act, I and my friends followed him to third floor where we saw her groping another woman. We subsequently followed him to the elevator where he molested another woman. A man who was also on the elevator witnessed it,” the woman said in her complaint to the police.
 
 But, according to the women, the mall security guards initially disregarded their complaints and refused to take any action.
 
 “Initially they were not ready to intervene. Only after we and other visitors caught the accused, that they took him to the security control room. The mall’s security guards told us they had called police but even after 40 minutes nobody arrived. So we dialled 100. Cops arrived at the scene promptly and nabbed him. What’s the need of having security guards in malls if they can’t protect women? I want appropriate action against the accused,” the woman said in her complaint.
 
 However, the security head of the mall, Hanuman Goswami, said that   footage did not show any indecent act of the accused. “We only have visuals of the man pleading to the woman and her friends that he had mistakenly touched her and seeking pardon. We detained him and handed him over to cops,” he said.
 
 An FIR has been registered against the accused under Section 354 A (sexual harassment) of IPC at DLF-II police station. “The accused is a resident of New Colony area. He has confessed to his crime. We will also serve a notice to the mall management to provide us the footage of CCTV cameras inside,” said SHO Gaurav Phogat.
 
 
