KOCHI: Senior police officials say that of the 1,725 missing children tracked down by state police, none were ‘abducted’ as part of major crimes – read pushing them into begging or for harvesting organs.

 Purposes for actual abductions as per data from the   ( ) include: forceful marriage, illicit intercourse, murder, unlawful activity, adoption, ransom, revenge, prostitution, begging, slavery, sale, selling of body parts and other purposes.
 
 However, according to officials, most of the ‘abductions’ in the state fall under the ‘other purposes’ category which include eloping by teenagers and parental disputes leading to filing of false abduction complaints.
 
 As per NCRB statistics, over 60% of child abductions in the country itself are for ‘other purposes’ and officials say that in the state, this rate is much higher with the number of actual abductions being minuscule.
 
 “The definition of kidnapping as per IPC is taking any minor away from the custody of a lawful guardian without the guardian’s consent. Hence, kidnapping cases recorded in the state can be due to technical reasons. In my experience, a case where a child being abducted for a purpose like begging or other criminal activity has never come to my notice,” said P  , IG (admin).
 
 
  
  
 
 Special juvenile police unit (SJPU) officials cite instances where children run away on their own as another reason for many missing cases.
 
 “A father, a daily wage earner, had recently approached us with a child missing complaint. He had managed to give his son school education from a private institution, never let his son knew about any financial crunch. When he completed schooling, the boy wanted to apply for a course in Canada, which the family couldn’t afford. After the family refused his demand multiple times, he entered into a scuffle with them and even assaulted his mother before running away,” said Ashraf. The SJPU later traced the boy from Aluva Manappuram.
 
 Even as the officials cite the number of traced children to dismiss the scaremongering, they are at a loss regarding the reason for disappearance of at least 49 children yet to be traced.
 
 “There may be a few genuine cases where children are actually missing and are yet to be traced. It is not possible to say the exact reasons why they went missing as of now. In certain cases the parents could’ve filed the complaints themselves. Anyhow, the recovery rate is very high and we are trying to trace the remaining missing children as early as possible,” said  , DGP North zone.
 
 However, officials say that children rescued from child labour who later go missing from care homes remain untraceable.
 
 According to experts, in regions like   in  , they have come across incidents where teenagers leave the place seeking jobs and end up remaining untraceable. “They would be registered missing cases. However, such cases are only a handful,” said an official.
 
 Sources said that registration of ‘technical abductions’ are even promoted by police officials to “fill the quota” on the number of special law cases to be registered. However, police officials deny the allegation. Registering such cases could backfire as they would remain unsolved, said an official.
 
