The Maharashtra government has extended the deadline to implement plastic ban to help vendors and shopkeepers utilise their existing stock. Mumbaikars, however, are in no mood to wait for the official implementation and want to be the change themselves. So, some of them have gone ahead and started making lifestyle changes to make a smooth transition to a plastic-free world.

 
 
 While shopkeepers have found a solution to pack dry items in cloth or paper bags, fish, meat and milk sellers are yet to find an alternative in a plastic-less world. In fact, people have started carrying metal utensils to buy milk or non-vegetarian items like chicken, meat or fish. Says  , an environmentalist, “A group of us in the neighbourhood have always carried our own cloth bags to buy vegetables and fruits, so the introduction of the plastic ban didn’t make any difference to us. In fact, we have also started carrying tiffins to buy stuff like meat as it’s inconvenient to carry it in paper. We also use utensils to pick up milk from dairy.”
  
  
 
 
 Carry your own plate to make a difference to the environment, suggests  . The young mom is a regular visitor to the organic food market held over the weekend at Juhu. These days she has started carrying stainless steel plates to use it whenever she feels like eating from the many stalls put up there. Her friend   does the same when she visits the Chembur organic market on Sundays. Says Kysha, “I always carry my own cloth bag to pick up stuff from the farmers’ market. For some days now, I have also started carrying a plate and spoon with me to avoid eating in disposable plates.”
 
 
 
 For those who find cloth bags used from grand-mom days plain, it is time to take another look at the cloth bags that are now available in the market. Bags made of denim, jute, canvas and crochet are quite popular. Made out of natural material, not only are these bags eco-friendly but also sturdy. Navin Singh, a management student, says, “Earlier boys would avoid carrying cloth bags, but now there are so many trendy options to choose from. I have started carrying a denim bag that looks cool, while my mom has pulled out my grandma’s handmade crochet bags which are in fashion again!”
 Bags made from starches and vegetable wastes are also available; they are stronger, more durable and of course, bio-degradable. Says home-maker, Kusha Wadhwa, “After segregating dry and wet waste in different dustbins, our society has gone a step further — they’re now encouraging us to use dustbin bags made from potato starch which are bio-degradable. We have completely stopped using the black plastic dustbin bags.”
 
 
  
 
 
 Much before the ban was announced,  , a young designer, started making bamboo and stainless steel straws in January to reduce the usage of plastic ones. Many cafes and restaurants are now using the same. “So many plastic straws are used and discarded on a daily basis, but now that people are forced to make the switch, we hope that more will join in the cause,” she says.
 Many households have also started buying eco-friendly straws to use at home. Says Mitali Narayan, “My daughter uses a straw to sip milk and other liquids, but now I have switched to bamboo and steel straws. They come with a special brush to clean, which can be maintained easily and are re-usable for a long period.”
 
 
 
 These days food parcels come with bamboo plates and spoons. Foodie and blogger   was in for a surprise, when she asked a restaurant to parcel the leftover food. “They packed it in a terracotta pot and closed the lid tightly. They didn’t give a plastic bag to carry it, but told me to hold it straight to prevent the contents from spilling out. It was a re-usable pot, so I have planted some herbs in it now,” she says. 
 For some people like  , who’s into food catering, the ban has made them look at alternatives to plastic. “We intend to replace all plastic bags with bio-degradable corn starch bags. Even though plastic containers are not banned yet, we are looking for an eco-friendly replacement,” she says.
 
