With   virus scare gripping the country, state health department has given the go-ahead for upgrading one of its three laboratories (for virology testing) to the bio safety level (BSL) 3 from the current BSL 2. At present, the labs at Gandhi Hospital, Fever Hospital and Institute of Preventive Medicine (IPM) are at level 2 and conduct tests for contagious viruses, including swine flu.

 
 As per plan the laboratory at IPM will be upgraded to level 3, which, in other words, means the set of precautions required to isolate dangerous virus would be made even more stringent. The BSL 3 entails having a highly filtered air flow for even air going out of the lab, fabricated roofs, sophisticated equipment, highly restricted entry with requirement of cleaning every time a person enters, thorough cleaning and filtering of all other materials to kill chances of spreading of the virus.
 
 
  
 
 “With the upgrade of the IPM lab, we will be equipped to test samples for Nipah virus, Ebola virus and even   virus. The upgrade of the lab was approved by the state government during a high-level meeting a few days ago and a detailed proposal is being prepared,” said Dr K Shankar, director, IPM, Hyderabad.
 
 For the upgrade, estimated cost would be between ₹2 crore and ₹3 crore. It will include bringing in high-end equipment, training of staff to conduct tests, apart from following all safety precautions.
 
 At present, the state With is not equipped to test suspected samples of of Nipah virus. So, the be suspected samples have to be sent to Na- Ebola tional Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, which has the highest bio-safety level laboratory — BSL 4. So far, two suspected cases were reported in the state and the samples had to be physically carried to  , Pune. The samples were taken in triple-layered packing to prevent contamination or leakage. Apart from NIV, Pune, there are three more laboratories in the country, which are at level 3 and 4 and equipped to carry out tests for Nipah virus. Once upgraded, the IPM lab will be the fifth in the country at level 3.
 
 
