Eight beauty queens from around the world joined   2017   as she kick-started her ‘Beauty With A Purpose’ tour with the ‘Feminine Hygiene Awareness’ campaign in Hyderabad on Thursday. The initiative seeks to educate women about the importance of menstrual hygiene management. “The ‘Beauty With A Purpose’ campaign began in 1974. I had travelled to Singapore and there, I saw an old lady who would wash and feed children, who were basically destitutes. Everyday, I watched in amazement as this lady bathed and fed the children. When I asked her why, she said ‘Is it not better to light a candle in the dark, than to not see at all?’. I was inspired by these words and that’s when we started this campaign,” shared Julia Morley, Chairman and CEO, Miss World. 

 The eight Miss World winners — Stephanie Del Valle (Miss World 2016), Magline Jeruto (Miss World Africa), Ha Eun Kim (Miss World Asia), Annie Dian Evans (Miss World Oceania),   (Miss World Europe), Solange Johnson Sinclair (Miss World Caribbean), Alma Andrea Meza Carmona (Miss World Americas) — also spoke about their experiences and explained why menstrual hygiene is a global cause.
 Manushi, whose project ‘Shakti’ is about educating men and women in rural areas about menstrual hygiene, said she was surprised to see the lack of awareness about sanitary pads. 
 “Many of them didn’t even know about sanitary napkins; those who did, couldn’t afford them. I was amazed to see the kind of things women had used as substitutes for sanitary pads. Some of them used ash, others used cardboard or cloth. Around 70 per cent of the women felt that menstruation was dirty,” Manushi said, adding, “Apart from creating awareness, through this initiative, we plan to set up manufacturing units for sanitary pads. The idea is to bring people together and make sanitary pads accessible to all women.” 
 
 Manushi’s initiative has received support from Aakar, an NGO that aims to create a sustainable community-led model to promote menstrual hygiene awareness and provide low cost, compostable sanitary pads in rural and urban India. Joining hands with the Miss World in her mission is the   government. “the best place to make an impact on improving the lives of girls and women is in water, sanitation and feminine hygiene awareness. We are happy to support this cause,” said Jayesh Ranjan, Principal Secretary for Industries Department, Government of Telangana.
 
 To participate in  , log on to www.missidia.in and mail your pictures and profiles to missindiaorganization@gmail.com
 
