KOLKATA: Taps ran dry in large parts of south Kolkata on Saturday due to urgent repair works of pipelines at  . However, the repair work — considered to be the last one before the onset of summer — will benefit at least 10 lakh south Kolkata residents who face acute water shortage every summer.

 “This was the last major planned repair of pipelines and valves carried out before summer. The repair was necessary to plug loopholes in the water distribution system. This kind of repair work will go a long way in ensuring uninterrupted supply of filtered water to some dry pockets in south Kolkata, especially in added areas,” a   water supply department official said on Saturday.
 
 Residents living in areas such as Watgunge, Kidderpore, Senpara, Sakuntala Park, Parnasree, James Long Sarani, Kasba, Jadavpur, Bagha Jatin and   will benefit from the water augmentation and modernization programme undertaken by the civic body.
 
  
 
 Explaining how the civic body would tackle water scarcity this summer, a KMC official said that the repair work undertaken on Saturday would ensure supply of additional water to some areas. “This apart, we have undertaken an augmentation of water treatment plant. A new plant is coming up at the same site. The plant with a capacity to supply 25 million gallon of filtered water every day will be instrumental in ending water crisis in parts of south Kolkata,” a KMC water supply department official said.
 
 In fact, the KMC water supply department had in 2015 planned to set up four water booster pumping stations to supply additional potable water to the crisis zones. Construction of these pumping stations at Watgunge, Behala Parnasree, Regent Estate and Bansdroni is complete and they will receive more water from Garden Reach water treatment plant. “Our infrastructure in added areas such as Garden Reach, Behala, Jadavpur and   has undergone a great change. Now we are concentrating on arresting water loss in the distribution system. Once we achieve success, we will be able to mitigate water crisis in the worst affected areas” a civic official said.
 
 However, there is still a threat. According to a KMC official, water theft is on the rise in the added areas, especially in places where highrises are coming up in large numbers. “We have to keep water theft in mind and take steps accordingly,” said a civic official.
 
