PANAJI: A report prepared and submitted to chief minister   by the victim assistance unit ( ) reveals the shocking extent of   in the state of Goa.

 From March 2017 to February 2018, Goa saw 273 child abuse cases in the state — more than five a week. Of these, 68% were girls and 32% boys.
 
 Of the total cases handled by the VAU, 68% comprise five types of abuses — sexual, witnesses in criminal proceedings, kidnapping, verbal and assault. Nonetheless, 51% of children abused are in the 0 to 15 years age group.
 
  
 Panaji, Mapusa, women's   station, Old Goa and Porvorim were the police stations that registered the highest number of cases--72%. The least number of cases have been registered at Sanguem, Saligao, cyber crime cell and Cuncolim police stations, which is less than 4% of the total cases registered in the state.
 
 “In addition to the 707 cases in the first three years (2014 – 2017), we have assisted 273 cases from March 2017 to February 2018. Of these, 86 were boys, while 187 were women and girls. Many cases of women who were rescued from prostitution, rape and abuse were also reported to this unit. We have assisted in all 980 individuals in the past four years. Most of the cases are ongoing as we are still to depose before the court,” VAU coordinator Emidio Pinho told TOI.
 
 Sexual abuse cases among teenagers were the highest in the state, followed by kidnapping, assault, verbal and domestic violence, according to the VAU report. The other cases handled by the unit were suicide, begging, murder, trafficking, child labour, rescue, accidents, abandoned, drug abuse, child marriage and that of missing children.
 
 Since the past four years, VAU has assisted victims of abuse, provided socio-legal support and carried out counselling and vocational guidance sessions for them. It has also worked towards placement of children in need of care and protection and in conflict with law.
 
 “Currently, we have a VAU for the entire state and through our efforts there is a total change in the child protection system in Goa,” Pinho said.
 
 To speed up various procedures, VAU now has a police officer (PSI rank) so that registration of complaints, recording of statements and medical examination of victims can be carried out under one roof.
 
 
