KOCHI: The meeting convened by Kochi mayor   to examine ways to resume the   (RoRo) services, suspended on the inaugural day, failed to make any headway. The officials of the Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation ( ) who attended the meeting sought more time for resuming the service. 

 KSINC sources said conducting services through estuary was highly risky. "There are only three drivers who are qualified and can be deployed for the purpose in the state. Of these, one person works abroad. We appointed two. One of them requires more training. On the inaugural day, we conducted service using the only driver. It is difficult to conduct services using a single driver. So, we will have to train our staff. We are ready to resume the services after May 10," said a KSINC official.
 
 The KSINC also blamed the corporation for failure to ensure proper facilities for the smooth conduct of the service. "They failed to barricade the ferry. There wasn't any furniture in the ticket counter. All such facilities should be arranged and only then the services can be conducted," said the official.
 
 The criticism that KSINC conducted services on the inaugural day without proper registration and certificates was examined at the meeting. "All the papers were there. As the registration had expired on April 26,   had extended the certificate till May 6. The department conducted an inspection on Monday and the registration would be renewed soon," said a corporation official. The KSINC officials also raised the issue of non-renewal of firefighting licence for not starting the services. But, corporation officials said that the firefighting licence has been renewed.
 
 Opposition councillors staged a sit-in protest in front of the corporation office demanding inquiry into the alleged corruption in the construction of jetties. They wanted the mayor to resign over the issue.   said KSINC officials who attended the meeting had agreed to resume services from Tuesday. "Later, they backed out due to unknown reasons. Tom Jose, KSINC managing director said he was unaware of the decision to start services only after May 10," she said.
 
 
 
