Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Friday that the UP Budget was development-oriented and aimed at holistic development of every section of the society.

 “It is a ‘vikas-parak’ (development-oriented) budget, which has been prepared keeping in mind the interest of every section of society — farmers, women and youth, and for holistic development of the state,” Yogi said while addressing media after budget presentation.
 
 The CM congratulated finance minister Rajesh Agrawal for making substantial budgetary provisions for all important sectors.
 
 Sharing the salient features of budget, Yogi said energy sector has been given Rs 29,000 crore, which was 54% more than last year. Similarly, Rs 1,716 crore has been earmarked for roads, a 22% hike over previous year. Likewise, irrigation department’s allocation has been increased by 54% to Rs 10,938 crore for completion of long-pending Arjun Canal, Madhya Ganga Canal project etc.
 
 The CM said that Rs 250 crore each have been allocated for startups and one district, one product scheme.
 
 Yogi tried to put an end to ‘shamshaan ghat’ and ‘kabristaan’ politics by announcing that government has given Rs 100 crore for ‘antyesthi sthal’ (place where last rites are performed), irrespective of caste, creed and religion.
 
 “Jahan jaisi jaroorat hogi waisa budget ka prayog kiya jaayega (Budget would be used as per the need and requirement),” he said.
 
 The chief ministrer said that effort is on to bring transparency in all departments and for this e-office needs to be set up for which a total of Rs 30 crore has been earmarked. Yogi said that 22 departments have already been computerised and remaining would be done by April 1.
 
 Replying to a question on budgetary provision on police reforms, Yogi said that the government is ensuring that .303 rifle given to cops will gradually be replaced with   automatic gun.
 
 “The police department is being armed with modern weapons. A   has been constituted,” he said, adding that an additional provision of Rs 1,500 crore has been made for modernising the police force.
 
 “The budget provides Rs 35 crore for Special Police Operation Team (SPOT) under   (ATS) for purchase of equipment and gadgets. The government has already decided to restore 54 companies of the PAC that had been closed,” he said.
 
 Similarly, budgetary provision of Rs 641lakh has been made for purchase of vehicles in security fleet of VVIPs at CM’s home town Gorakhpur and Ghaziabad.
 
 The CM said that Rs 1,500 crore has been earmarked for   and Rs 200 crore for Varanasi Cultural Centre. Varanasi is the Lok Sabha constituency of Prime Minister  . Besides, Rs 100 crore have been earmarked for Brij Vikas Board, Yogi said and added that Rs 70 crore has been kept for promoting tourism, heritage walk, etc.
 
 The chief minister said that Rs 250 crore have been earmarked for mass marriages, and Rs 478 crore separately for marriage of the poor.
 
