After the Ram Navami violence, Saturday’s   may turn out to be the new BJP-Trinamool flashpoint. The ruling Trinamool, which has stepped into this religion-induced social engineering in the state, can’t just step out of it.

 
 Trinamool minister and MLA from Howrah Uttar, Lakshmi Ratan Shukla, was candid. “I have a political compulsion. I can’t leave it to the   to grab the issue. I participated in the Ram Navami programmes. And on March 31, I am going to organise the Hanuman Jayanti rally. Participants will carry maces and there will be a chariot with a Hanuman idol on it. We will appeal to citizens to read Hanuman Chalisa and stay away from violence,” the minister said. Trinamool’s Howrah Dakshin president Massod Alam Khan has planned a mega rally on the Amta Road on that day.
 
 The Vishwa Hindu Parishad that led the rallies in Bengal a year ago, has changed its strategy this time. Having a natural advantage as Hanuman temples are spread across the state, the   will concentrate on pujas in temples with an eye on including the Dalits and Scheduled Castes in the larger Hindu scheme of things. 
 
 “Our main focus will be on ishtonaam jopwith sadhus in temples and popularising the demand of building the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya,” VHP state spokesman Sourish Mukherjee said. The impact can be gauged if one counts the Hanuman temples. In Birbhum’s Suri, a possible flashpoint, there are as many 20 temples in 18 wards, leaving Trinamool leaders in a fix over ways to counter the VHP bid without hurting sentiments. 
 
 The Sangh Parivar-sponsored Anjani Putra Sena has planned 130 pujas across the state. “We will use microphones in temples during the puja,” said state president Surendar Verma. When pointed out that police may not allow use of microphones while the HS examination is on, Verma said: “We will court arrest if the police want us to take off microphones. We will then tell the devotees that the government didn’t allow us to celebrate Hanuman Jayanti.” Verma pointed out that police do not stop the daily azaans over microphones at neighbourhood mosques.
 
 Tension is building up at trouble-torn Raniganj-Asansol, where BJP district president Lakshman Gorui said that the Hanuman Jayanti plans are on. “The triangular flags will remain till March 31,” Gorui said. Earlier in the day, a BJP delegation led by Raju Banerjee submitted a memorandum to Asansol CP against “Trinamool atrocities” on Ram Navami. Asansol mayor and Trinamool leader Jiten Tewari said the party would take its decision accordingly.
 
 Trinamool isn’t leaving space for BJP at Kharagpur. Party’s Kharagpur town president Rabishankar Pandey has planned a motorbike rally at Traffic Maidan on March 31 apart from the cultural programme that began on the Ram Navami day. Police have already held meetings with parties, clubs and organisations to avoid confrontation on the occasion of Hanuman Jayanti.
 
 
