JAIPUR: The Special Operations Groups ( ) of the Rajasthan police on Tuesday arrested two more persons for their alleged involvement in online cheating during the Rajasthan police constable recruitment examinations.

 SOG’s DIG Sanjay Kumar   told TOI that SOG arrested a candidate Ram Dev Kichad (25), a resident of  , and  , a resident of  .
 
 “Kichad is a beneficiary in the case and he was given assurance that he will be selected in the examination. He did not even know how to operate the computer and merely sat before the computer in the examination centre, this was proved with the help of the CCTV footage of the room,” Shotriya said.
 
 Another accused has been identified as Rajiv Dabas who lured candidates into the racket and collected money from them. DIG Shotriya said that SOG has picked up several clues while investigating the case.
 
 The racket was busted on Monday busted the racket and arrested six persons. The accused allegedly charged Rs 3 to 5 lakh from each candidate to facilitate cheating during the online exam and set up a 'control room' merely 500 metres away from a centre. The online cheating was done by hacking into the local area network (LAN) using routers. A team of SOG officials visited the place and found that the fraudsters had set up a parallel computer centre at a restaurant nearly 500 meters away from the exam centre
 
 The sources informed TOI that the sleuths are also probing the role of a Nagaur based coaching centre owner in the case and more arrests are likely to be made in next few days.
 
 According to the SOG, the gang carried out the online cheating by gaining remote access to computers at the examination centre. The sources said that other such examination centres are also under it scanner.
 
 The officials informed TOI that the examination centre,  , has had a dubious past. “It was set up in New Delhi and moved to Jaipur where they rented building etc. There is little information about its credibility, hence it’s a matter of investigation as to why the contractual company roped in Sarswati infotech for exams,” the official said.
 
 
