Thanjavur: Carnatic music has retained its religious form, traditional nature and its cultural purity as it has been handed over from generation to generation, said governor Banwarilal Purohit after inaugurating the 171st Thyagarajar Aradhana festival at Thiruvaiyaru in Thanjavur. The special element of Carnatic music had been the spiritual content of the rendering. The devotional element in the music made it unique and divine. Thyagarajar was a true reflection of the meaning of his name, which meant king among renouncers, he said. “Thyagarajar never aspired for wealth or fame, but was content in giving vent to his bhakthi through his compositions,” the governor said. While complimenting GK Moopanar for the services rendered to the Sabha with his 36 years of continuous association from 1996 to 2002, the governor said that it was during his time that the Aradhana became an international festival. “I congratulate GK Moopanar for carrying forward the legacy of his elder brother, and GK Vasan, who is the chairman of the board of trustees. They have devoted themselves unconditionally for the success of the Sabha and the Annual Aradhana Festival in honour of Thyagaraja,” he added. Meanwhile, DMK staged a demonstration near New Bus Stand where the governor reviewed Swachh mission. The party criticised him for visiting districts and meeting officials. They alleged that it amounted to interfering in the state’s rights. A large number of police personnel was deployed for the governor’s security. Meanwhile, culture minister K Pandiarajan described Purohit as a ‘people's governor.’ “People’s governor has come from orange-growing Nagpur to paddy-growing Thanjavur,” he said while speaking at a function held at the Tamil University in Thanjavur to unveil a statue of former chief minister MG Ramachandran. At the function, Purohit paid tributes to MGR and lauded the late leader’s noon meal scheme. Earlier in the day, he participated in various programmes. He visited the Thanjavur Brihadeeswarar temple and Hanuman temple in the city. He then inspected the Swachh Mission at the new bus stand. He visited the shops and some residences and reviewed the cleaning process executed by Thanjavur Corporation. He also participated in the review meeting at the Circuit House in the city and received petitions from the public.