To benefit mariners and fishermen, the directorate of lighthouses, government of India, has approved a new lighthouse to be built at Kuthenkuly coastal village in Radhapuram taluk. The lighthouse to be established at Rs 8 crore will be the first in Tirunelveli district that has a coastline of 49 km, between Kanyakumari and Tuticorin districts.

 There are two light houses each in neighbouring Kanyakumari (at Kanyakumari and Muttom) and Tuticorin districts (Tuticorin and Manapad). The nearest lighthouses from Kuthenkuly are the one at Kanyakumari that is 39 km south and Manapad that is 40 km north.
 
 Officials in the lighthouse and fisheries department said there was no lighthouse for a stretch of 75 km between Kanyakumari and Manapad. Muttom lighthouse is 68 km away, while the one in Tuticorin is 93 km away. Director of the department of lighthouses, Chennai, D Venkataraman in a written reply to TOI said that the Tirunelveli district collector has handed over the 3,500 sqft land required for the lighthouse at Kuthenkuly. "Soil investigation and environmental clearance have been cleared at the state level," he said.
 
 The director said that it had been forwarded to the ministry of environment and forest, New Delhi, for the final approval. Preliminary works such as design of the lighthouse is being carried out by the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras. Construction of the 45 metre tall structure with lift facility is likely to commence in July, 2018, after obtaining the final Coastal Regulation Zone clearance, and would be completed in 18 months.
 
 With the completion of the work, there will be five lighthouses in the 161 km coastal stretch from Muttom to Tuticorin at an average of a lighthouse for every 32 km along the coastline in the three southern districts. This continuity would pave way for easier navigation for ships, industry sources said. The lighthouse would be visible up to 20 nautical miles away for ships. It could be a little lesser for fishermen in the country boats to spot it as they are much smaller in size. Officials in the fisheries department said that there are 15,000 fishermen in the seven main and a few other small coastal villages in the district for whom fishing is the prime occupation.
 
 
