PUNE: The   Zoological Park, popularly known as   zoo, has seen an increase in visitors in the past nine months (April to December 2017).

 More than 14.29 lakh people visited the zoological park in the last nine months of the current fiscal (April to December 2017) as against previous year’s footfall of 13.12 lakh recorded in same period, registering an increase of 1.17 lakh visitors. The increased rush has pushed up the monthly footfall at the zoo beyond 1.50 lakh for the first time.
 
 Revenue collection at the zoo, which houses more than 410 animals, birds and reptiles, went up by Rs 23 lakh to reach Rs 3.19 crore from previous year’s revenue of Rs 2.96 crore recorded in April-December 2016, authorities said.
 
  over an area of about 130 acres, the Katraj zoo has a snake park. Apart from the animal enclosures, a lake located at the back of zoo is a major attraction for tourists.
 
 
  
 
 Sources said the two Asiatic lions brought to the zoo in April 2017 could be the reason behind the increase in visitors besides other reasons like expansion of services in the zoo area to make the trip more comfortable for visitors.
 
 “Though the zoo has many animals, the lions were brought to the park for the first time in two decades. They were introduced at the beginning of this financial year in April, which was also happened to be the time of summer holidays. Around this period, visitors’ footfall remains at peak. Moreover, Katraj zoo is the only zoo in the state which has Asiatic lions,” sources said.
 
 Zoo director   said over 17 lakh people visited the zoo during 2016-17. There has been a steady rise in the footfall. “The administration is in the process of extending more facilities at the zoo to ensure better experience for visitors,” he added.
 
 “There is a plan to introduce changes in the entry gate and upgrade ticket windows to avoid rush. Instead of the existing one entrance gate, there will be multiple entry counters to cut down long queues. The administration is also planning to set up automatic self-operating ticket kiosks,” he said.
 
 The   recently introduced a facility wherein visitors can book tickets through online portal. The online facility for advanced booking has received fairly good response, the administration has said.
 
