NEW DELHI: India's top swimming hope   is all geared up for the upcoming   Games in  , Australia and considers the event as a perfect platform to test his preparations for the "more challenging" Asian Games later this year. 

 
 
 
 
 
 Khade became the youngest ever Indian swimmer to qualify for Olympics when he made it to the Beijing Games in 2008 at the age of 16. Although, he failed to make it to the semis in his events, he did set a new national record of 50.07 seconds while competing in the heats of 100m freestyle. 
 
 Two years later, he returned home with a bronze medal from the Asian Games in Guangzhou, China in the 50m butterfly category. However, being a government officer, he was forced to take a break from swimming after being posted in coastal Konkan region. 
 
 With just about two weeks remaining for CWG, Khade is steadily returning to his best as was evident from the gold medal (50m freestyle) he won at the 49th Singapore National Age Group Swimming Championships. 
 
 In his column for TOI, the 26-year-old expressed confidence in putting up a good performance at the CWG considering the way he is shaping up for the event. "For me, the upcoming Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast will be an ideal stage to test my preparations for the more challenging Asian Games. I will be participating in two events in 50 metres — freestyle and butterfly—and given the way I have shaped up, I think anything is possible. But one cannot discount the swimmers from Australia, Great Britain and South Africa, who all have won medals at a much bigger stage — the Olympics," he wrote.
 
 He pointed out that the Australian and the British swimmers will be the biggest challenge but he's not under any pressure having prior experience of competing at the highest level. "In Commonwealth swimming, I would say Australian and British swimmers are the fastest and probably the toughest to compete against. As I said, if you delve into the competition in my events, one never knows who would be the winner as short distance events are the toughest to predict. Everyone plays hard, but if I swim half-a-second faster than my best, I would be right up there with them. This time though, I feel no pressure as I have competed at this level before," he observed.
 
 The gold medal from Singapore has surely added to his confidence and the five-month training stint with coach Nihar Ameen has put him in good stead. "I have been among the top 50 FINA swimmers when I was swimming consistently and I will be looking to get back up there in the coming few months. In that sense, this gold medal in Singapore at the Asian Age-Group championship adds to my confidence."
 
 "My training in Bengaluru with coach Nihar Ameen has been on for five months now and I feel, to be a real contender, one has to stay injury free and that is what my coach and I have been working on," he wrote.
 
 While Khade's first aim is to make it to the finals of his events and should he be able to do that, winning a medal won't be an impossible dream. "My first target is to qualify for the finals, and if that happens, I will try my best though I know winning medals is difficult if not impossible. Though India is fielding only a three-member team including Sajan Prakash and Srihari, I feel we have a chance especially since Srihari has filled the void of India’s weakness in the backstroke," he signed off.
 
 
