QUEPEM: The chief town planner (planning) has directed the deputy town planner,  , to initiate necessary action against a multi-storeyed commercial-cum-residential building near   junction. The direction pertains to a case where a private road was shown as an access to the building.

 A group of villagers have raised strong protests, alleging that the project promoter has shown their private road in the building plans. The structure of the building was recently completed.
 
 The citizens, under the banner of  , on Wednesday blocked the road used by the builder by dumping stones and warned that they would prosecute him if he trespassed. They alleged that the town and country planning (TCP) department had approved the construction plan based on the private road as access and that the Xeldem panchayat also issued a construction licence based on the false information.
 
 “The existing private road, strictly for six houses in survey numbers 18/12 and 18/22, belongs to the forum members. How can the TCP department give approval when it is not acquired by the government and not shown on survey records?” forum member  , said.
 
 A sanad issued by the   collector on April 16, 2013, mandated that the applicant use the land for only residential purpose. “The builder has violated this condition and built a two storey-building with 15 flats and shops, thus using the land commercially,” the members alleged. The illegalities were brought to the notice of the Xeldem panchayat in 2014, leading the local body to issue a stop-work order. “But later, the structure was completed with the panchayat’s blessings,” forum members claimed, adding that the original builder, who had applied for licences, sold the land to a new builder despite there being a case pending against him before the directorate of panchayats. 
 
 Xeldem sarpanch  , told TOI the panchayat had issued a construction licence based on the approved plan from the TCP department, and that the latter was the appropriate authority to decide on the issues raised.
 
 
