PATIALA: A 40-year-old man had been allegedly raping his 17-year-old niece since November last year and got her pregnant thrice in six months. Every time the teenager, who turned 18 in April, got pregnant, he forced her to undergo an abortion, according to a police case registered in   on Saturday.

 
 
  
 
 On other occasions, after raping her, he made the girl down a morning-after pill to avoid pregnancy. The uncle’s torture came to an end when the girl, after another rape, phoned the police’s helpline for women and filed a complaint on Saturday. The investigating officer said they had arrested the accused within 24 hours of the complaint. He has since been produced in court and remanded in twoday police custody. The accused is unmarried and the brother of the girl’s father. He allegedly used to threaten her with “dire consequences” if she revealed the crime to anyone.
 
 As the survivor was a minor when the alleged rapes started taking place, police have charged the accused with sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. He has also been booked for rape, causing miscarriage without woman’s consent, and criminal intimidation. Police have said the initial reports of the medical examination of the survivor had confirmed rape. However, reports of the chemical examination are awaited.
 
 The investigating officer said the girl had alleged that the accused first started exploiting her sexually after he came to know about her relations with a boy and complained about it to her father. While her mother is mentally unfit, her father is a drunkard. The girl has alleged that the accused would buy liquor for her father, so that he could exploit her. “The rape survivor has passed Class XII. She was repeatedly raped and threatened. We have nabbed the accused after registering a case. The accused shares agricultural land with her father. The family are marginal farmers with around 2 acres. Her statement has been recorded in court,” the investigating officer added.
 
 
