PILIBHIT: Pilibhit tiger reserve (PTR) lost its third big cat in a span of 21 days with the discovery of the carcass of an adult male tiger, aged around five years, from Mahof forest range on Thursday morning.
 
  The tiger had multiple deep injuries on its neck apparently inflicted by sharp-edged weapons. The carcass has been sent to the Indian Veterinary Research Institute in Bareilly for an autopsy.
  
  The nature of injures point to poaching as cause of death, said forest officials.
  
  Conservator of forest, Bareilly circle, Pinaki Prasad Singh, who inspected the site, ordered immediate arrest of the three villagers who were injured in a tiger attack on Wednesday, on suspicion of poaching. While the two villagers who were admitted to the district government hospital have been arrested, their third accomplice who was shifted to   in Bareilly in a critical condition will remain in custody of the forest department.
  
  After inspecting the site, conservator PP Singh said he along with PTR DFO   and divisional director of social forestry Adarsh Kumar had inspected the spot in   village. The trio had claimed that they were mauled by a tiger while working in a sugarcane field there. “We could neither find any blood in the sugarcane field nor was the crop trampled to show the tiger’s movement and assault,” said the forest officers.
  
  However, within a radius of 2 km of the spot where the tiger carcass was found, the forest department team found seven bicycles, food packets, nylon cords, four axes, other sharp-edged weapons and blood clots at different places, the conservator said.
  
  Piecing together the evidence, forest officials believe that seven trespassers entered Mahof forest range allegedly to kill a tiger but something went wrong and the tiger mauled three of them while the others fled. The tiger died eventually due to the wounds it had sustained.
  
  Following their leads, foresters interrogated the injured men in hospital and have collected the particulars of the remaining four, Singh said.
  
  “We have booked all seven under provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. The other four poachers were absconding when the forest force raided their houses,” the conservator added.
  
  The three arrested were identified as Shri Krishna, Roop Lal and Om Prakash. Shri Krishna is the son of   who served eight years in jail for poaching, the conservator said.
  
  An inquiry has been ordered in the matter. Mahof range officer VK Gupta has been attached to the DFO office while forester Vashishth Kumar and forest guard   have been suspended for negligence in protecting wildlife. Range officer of Mala Dilip Shrivastav had been given additional charge of Mahof range, the conservator said.
  
  Earlier, the carcass of an adult male tiger had been found in Sharda Sagar dam on March 29. Prior to this, a sub adult tigress was found dead at the outlet canal of Sharda Sagar near Madhotanda on April 11.
  
  In addition, an adult male tiger had been spotted near a canal close to PTR on March 25 with a snare wire embedded in its neck. Though the whereabouts of this tiger is yet to be traced, its chances of survival are remote.
