Nagpur: A team of 19 SB Jain Institute of Engineering have done the city and their college proud by independently manufacturing a go-kart which stood sixth in the national level ‘Student Kart Design Championship held in Hyderabad, recently. The model was made using a 125cc motorcycle engine over a period of nine months. The SB Jain team ‘Abhyuday’ was the only one from the city to participate in the contest organized by Society of Mechanical and Automotive Engineers. Over 30 teams participated in the event from across the country. Students Kart Design Challenge is an initiative of Society of Mechanical and Automotive Engineers. Its objective is to motivate engineering students to design and manufacture a Go-Kart without any assistance from teachers or experts. The two-stage challenge involved a virtual round followed by the finals. Several tests on the model were performed leading to successful elimination of contestants. Faculty members FS Hussain, R Bijwe and S Biyani congratulated the team. “The experience gained in developing the model would help students understand the application of theory,” they said. Abhyuday captain Vivek Gurve said the challenge brought out the best in each of the team member and helped them realize their strength and weakness. “Students honed management skills by preparing cost report, CAE report and preparing an entrepreneurship plan. Similarly, by manufacturing the go-kart in the college workshop , we came to know the importance of team work,” Gurve said. Go-karting, he said, is a fun activity and can be used to create awareness among kids about traffic safety. “It is also a good option for kids who wish to take up racing and other motorsport,” he said. Gurve said Abhyuday also secured best coordination team award. “The team is grateful to the HoD of mechanical department HS Bhatkulkar and all the faculty members of the departments for their continuous support. We are also grateful to CEO Sanjeev Agarwal and principal SL Badjate,” he added. The team Vivek Gurve, Shantanu Bankar, Avinash Barve, Paresh Setiya, Himanshu Gotmare, Gyanprakash Yadav, Yash Rathi, Anjali Meshram, Nikita Jambhulkar, Gaurao Tapre, Chinmay Salkar, Atul Dhakne, Gaurav Sirsam, Akshay Khandalkar, Tejas Bhiwgade, Sahili Nagrare, Mohnish Dhole, Chetan Raut, Aquib Hashmi