PATIALA: The mortal remains of DSP  , who shot himself dead, were on Wednesday consigned to the flames with full state honours. 

  director general of police  , along with a battery of senior police officials, attended his last rites that were held at Tripuri crematorium. 
 
  
  
  Sandhu, who was posted at Jaito in Faridkot, had shot himself dead with his service revolver on Monday while trying to resolve a dispute between two student factions. 
 
  
  
 Known as an honest officer, Sandhu had joined the state police as an assistant sub-inspector in 1993 and remained posted with the anti-theft police station of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited. He had been promoted as deputy superintendent of police about six months ago and was posted at Jaito, which was his first posting as DSP.
 
 During his last rites, a contingent of the Punjab police fired shots in the air as a mark of respect while his son, who is settled in Canada and had returned home on Tuesday, lit the pyre. 
 
 Sandhu's father Dev Singh said the entire family has been devastated by the untimely death of Bajinder. He said the void left behind by his son could never be filled. 
 
  
  
 His mother   said she was proud of his son "who had always performed his duties with integrity and grit". Shocked by the death of her husband, Kulwinder Kaur said that Sandhu was an honest policeman who always stood as a protector of the law. 
 
 DGP Punjab Suresh Arora said that the state police had lost an upright officer and the entire police department stood with the family in its hour of grief. He also laid a wreath on the mortal remains of Sandhu on behalf of the Punjab police. 
 
  
  
 Among those who attended the funeral were Patiala mayor Sanjeev Bittu, IG Patiala zone AS Rai, IG and head of organised crime control unit of the state police  , DIG Patiala range Dr  , Patiala deputy commissioner Kumar Amit, SSP Dr S Bhoopathi and SDM Patiala Anmol Singh Dhaliwal. 
 
 Meanwhile, the family members said that Sandhu was a very strong-willed man and he could never commit suicide. Suresh Arora said the police have already registered a case against unidentified persons and the matter was being investigated. He said the details of police investigations was awaited.
 
