MUMBAI: Three Nigerians and a   resident have been arrested for allegedly duping at least 10 people from across the country of Rs 2 crore in the last six months in a herbal seed fraud.   said the accused would approach victims on social media posing as representatives of a fake UK-based pharmaceutical firm looking for herbal seed suppliers in India. They would promise huge returns as commission.

 Police suspect the number of victims may even touch 100.
 
 On March 21, police arrested the mastermind, Daniel Chukwuanu (42), from his rented apartment at  . His tourist visa had expired four years ago. He led them to Eaze Sthepine alias Ezva (35) and Prine Kane alias Ambute (50), who would pose as the company executives who would approve the seed quality. They were arrested from Mira Road on Saturday. Nitin alias Anil Vishwakarma (35), who posed as the local seed supplier, was nabbed on Sunday. Police have frozen their bank accounts and seized Rs 2.5 lakh.
  
 
 The fraud came to light after   Arjun Kasana (24) lodged a complaint on March 9 claiming he was duped of Rs 4.2 lakh between September 2017 and March 9, 2018. 
 
 In his complaint, Kasana said, “I got in touch with the fraudster on WhatsApp after I came across an email for herbal seed suppliers in September 2017. Chukwuanu introduced himself as an executive of UK-based Short Health Care Ltd, which manufactures medicines using herbal seeds. He said they were looking for an Indian dealer. He also provided contact details of an agent in Navi Mumbai who could help me with the seeds. I was told to meet a Nigerian representative at a hotel in Nariman Point to get the seed quality checked and get a certification. I realized I had been duped when he kept demanding money, but did not purchase the seeds.”
 
 Based on the complaint, DCP (zone X) Navinchandra Reddy set up a police team including senior inspector Shailesh Pasalwar and assistant inspector SY Kamuni. 
 
 “We kept tabs on the 12 bank accounts where the victim had transferred money. We then tracked down the ATMs in Bhayander and the western suburbs from where money was withdrawn. We retrieved the CCTV footages of the Nigerians withdrawing the money,” said a police officer. “The gang has duped victims in Mumbai, Kerala, Hyderabad, Gujarat and Madurai among other cities. Till now, 10 victims, including Kasana, have been identified who have lost between Rs 4 lakh and Rs 10 lakh. The gang operates from Mira Road and Bhayander.” The three Nigerians are in police custody till Monday, while Vishwakarma is in police custody till April 4.
 
 
 
