Noida: Although three weeks have passed since the ordinance on fee structure was passed in UP, a committee is yet to be formed to address parents’ grievances on   in schools. 

 While some of the schools, such as Cambridge and  , have sent emails to parents saying they had received a copy of the ordinance and were looking into the details, most schools are yet to come out with any such notice.
 
 A meeting of joint directors (education) of Meerut, Agra and   and 15 district inspectors of schools falling under these divisions was held under the chairmanship of additional chief secretary   in Noida’s Sector 58 on Saturday where the implementation of the provisions of the ordinance was discussed at length. 
 
 The secretary specified that the fee charged by the schools in the first quarter will have to be refunded or adjusted in the second quarter if it exceeds the level allowed in the ordinance. However, there was no clarity on the fee regulatory committee.
 
 TOI reported on April 8 that many schools have increased fees more than allowed in the ordinanceUnder the ordinance, fee revision will take place as per the cumulative percentage index, which would take into consideration the average percentage per capita increase of monthly salary of teaching staff of previous year, provided fee increase shall not increase by latest available yearly percentage increase in consumer price index. There can be an increase of five percent in the fee increased according to the ordinance. The base year for calculation of increase fee is 2015-16 and if parents have paid more than what is required, the extra amount will be refunded. As per this, fee would not increase by more than 7-8% annuallywith many resorting to a hike higher than mandated in the ordinance which takes 2015-16 as base year for the hike. It states that fee hike can be “equivalent to average percentage per capita increase of monthly salary of teaching staff of previous year, provided the hike shall not increase by latest available yearly percentage increase in consumer prive index+ five percent of fee realised from the student.”On Saturday, parents met the secretary after the meeting and sought more clarity on the ordinance and the plans to form a committee.
 
 
