 is a magical time that every woman awaits to have in her lifetime; it brings the joy of being able to nurture an angel inside her. It is true that pregnancy and childbirth leave an album of lifelong memory. However, there are certain complications and unpleasant experiences associated with pregnancy. One such condition is high blood pressure during pregnancy and it’s prognosis. 

 According to a recent preliminary research presented at the American Heart Association’s Scientific Sessions in 2017,   who develop Hypertensive disorders during pregnancy are more expected to experience cardiac problems within few years of giving birth. Researchers from University of California, San Francisco conducted a study on nearly 1.6 million Californian women and tracked their time to hospitalization from heart failure (a condition in which the heart cannot pump well) and heart attack.
 
 Hypertensive disorders occurring during pregnancy or post-partum include preeclampsia, gestational   and pre-existing chronic hypertension. Preeclampsia is a multisystem disorder of pregnancy, generally defined as new hypertension at or after 20 weeks of gestation.
 
 Results showed that women who had any kind of pregnancy-related hypertension i.e. gestational hypertension, preeclampsia, chronic hypertension and chronic hypertension combined with preeclampsia were more frequently hospitalized due to heart failure compared to women who did not have high blood pressure during pregnancy. However, the probability of hospitalization due to heart failure was affected by patient’s racial background: Black women had the lowest probability of hospitalization due to heart failure whereas Asian/Pacific Islander women had the highest probability. The probability of hospitalization for White and Hispanic/Latina women fell between the two groups.
 
 Likewise, women who had gestational hypertension, preeclampsia and chronic hypertension were also more likely to be hospitalized for a heart attack, but the probability of hospitalization for heart attack was not influenced by racial background. This analysis demonstrates that racial background influences risk of heart failure hospitalization but not in women with pregnancy-related hypertension.
 
 
 
 1. https://newsroom.heart.org/news/pregnant-asian-women-who-develop-high-blood-pressure-at-highest-risk-for-heart-failure-hospitalizations?preview=7ec8
 
 
 , M.D., Chairman, Department of Medicine, Vice Chairman, Board of Management, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, New Delhi
 E-mail: byotra@yahoo.co.in
 
 
 
 
 
