JAIPUR: Former MLAs Amra Ram, Pema Ram and farmer leader Charan Choudhury said chief minister   and her ministers would be barred by farmers from entering villages. This will be done to show political leaders that if ordinary farmers cannot gather in the state capital, then they too cannot enter villages easily. Amra Ram said when Prime Minister   visits   on March 8, farmers from Sikar, Churu and Jhunjhunu will meet him to remind him of promises made ahead of the 2014 Lok Sabha polls and tell him how the   government in the state has reneged on promises made to agitating farmers in September last year. 

 Amra Ram said permission is being sought from the   for the farmers’ meeting with the prime minister. Earlier, on February 22, farmers had decided to gather in Jaipur from across the state. However, the government clamped down on the protest and arrested over 2,000 farmers. The farmers are demanding that the state implement loan waiver, grant Rs2000 pension to aged farmers and take care to see that stray cattle do not destroy standing crops.
 
 Chief minister Vasundhara Raje announced waiver of loans up to Rs50,000 in the state budget earlier this month but it was restricted to loans availed from cooperative banks.
 
 Amra Ram said farmers will be busy harvesting crops in the next few days. “After that, if the promises are still not kept, we will prevent all district collectorates from working on May 1. We will come out in strength to protest the anti-farmer and anti-worker stances of the Centre and state. If the Centre, in the last three years, could waive over Rs17 lakh crore in taxes to industry, why cannot it take care of the Rs12 lakh crore that it would lose if it granted loan waiver to farmers? Whether wheat, mustard or chickpea, farmers are being forced to sell all crops at less than minimum support price. Dairy farmers are incurring losses of up to Rs15 per litre on milk, when those buying milk are not getting it at a lesser price.”
 
 Asked if the   was serving as an effective opposition, Amra Ram said, “At a time when farmers are suffering, all that the political leadership of this state can discuss are ghosts in the assembly! When the farmers were in agitation mode in September last year, we did not receive any support at all from Congress. The farmers are coming together, though. It is clear the government can no longer ignore farmers. Last year, we announced our protest against the electricity tariff hike and the government immediately rolled back the hike.”
 
 The CPI-M leadership said it would ally with all those seeking a government that did not follow the economic policies of the BJP and the Congress. “The Congress is just Team B of the BJP. We will see if we can contest all 200 seats in the state assembly in the polls later this year by gathering together like-minded people,” he said.
 
 
