PANAJI: The directorate of   services has floated a tender to select an   company to execute its modified cashless medical insurance scheme,   (DDSSY). Under the modified scheme, even persons residing in Goa for two to four years will be eligible to apply, subject to the condition that applicants pay the full premium prescribed for the family unit.

 
  
 
 Earlier, only those who have been residing in Goa for five years and more were eligible to avail benefits under the scheme. Also, the number of procedures or interventions covered have been increased slightly to 456 as against the earlier 447. The modified scheme also lists 19 diagnostic procedures, and 20 ayurvedic procedures.
 
 Some of the scheme’s interesting features include no cap on the number of family members enrolled and no entry or exit age restrictions for members of a beneficiary family unit. A directorate of health services official said the scheme will be further revised/modified as and when the central government launches the National Health Protection Scheme.
 
 With an eye to increase cost effectiveness and reach out to more beneficiaries, the scheme has been further modified and streamlined to make it more user friendly and beneficial. An official said the cost of some interventions has been hiked by over 20%. This includes cardiology and cardio thoracic procedures, which some doctors were demanding for lowered costs, the official said. 
 
 He said the private hospital lobby worked hard to get the cost of interventions raised. The modified scheme, the officer said, has been more specific about what kind of service is expected from the empanelled hospitals.
 
 “It is good enough that the government has put on paper what is expected of the hospitals that would be empanelled. Some hospitals were taking advantage of the ambiguity under the old scheme. One premier private hospital was even issued a showcause in this regard,” he added.
 
 Introduced in September 2016, and executed through the  , the contract with the company was renewed on completion of the one-year term, and thereafter extended twice for a three-month term each. The extended term ends on March 31, 2018.
 
 
