MUMBAI:   directed the BMC on Thursday to state what action it has taken against a developer whose “poor quality”   of a 32-storey   at   caused cement plaster and debris to fall on the adjacent   that belongs to former attorney general  .

 The court was hearing a   by Sorabjee (88) and son Dr Jehangir Sorabjee, head of department of medicine at Bombay Hospital, which stated that falling construction material, including cement slabs, heavy stones and long rods, from Aashiana Cooperative Housing Society has posed a threat to their bungalow, Hill Side Villa, and imperilled lives of its occupants. Their petition, which was mentioned for urgent relief on Thursday, has alleged inaction on the part of civic authorities against the developer, Rohan Lifespaces Ltd.
 
 A bench of Justices Abhay Oka and Riyaz Chagla directed the assistant municipal commissioner (D Ward) to “immediately make a site visit to ascertain if the danger complained of exists”. It also directed the executive engineer and the deputy chief engineer (building proposal, city) to file affidavits stating whether any action has been initiated. “If no action is initiated, they shall state reasons for not initiating action,” it added. 
 
 Sorabjee’s petition said since construction of Aashiana started in 2006, he and his family have been facing “some or the other nuisance” due to the construction activity being carried out “in a most dangerous, careless and callous manner”. 
 
 Debris allegedly began to fall from 2015 when construction work started for the higher floors. In October 2015, a huge cement slab fell on the roof of the bungalow and damaged its tiles. Sorabjee’s wife lodged a complaint with Malabar Hill police station, which acknowledged the incident. Thereafter, heavy “stones” kept falling. In March 2016, long steel rods crashed, “severely piercing the tiled roof” of the bungalow.
 
 “Shocked and alarmed”, Sorabjee wrote to the municipal commissioner who admitted to serious lapses by the developer in his reply but took no action. Again in August 2016, a massive five-foot-by-10-foot cement plaster came crashing from the 30th floor and extensively damaged the bungalow’s roof, staff quarters, the car shed and four cars. In July 2017, Sorabjee complained to the police when windows from the building fell on his bungalow. His petition said the developer undertook remedial measures but did nothing.
 
 Sorabjees’ advocates Nikhil Sakhardande and Prahlad Paranjape said the assistant municipal commissioner (AMC) carried out a site inspection. In his report, he recommended that the executive engineer take stringent action against the developer but no action was taken. They said their clients now dread the approaching monsoon.
 
 The judges, in their order, noted that “a prima facie” opinion is recorded by the AMC that work carried out was of poor quality and may cause danger to the lives of nearby residents and passersby.
 
 The developer’s advocate said replastering will be done and a new contractor has been appointed. “We put nets so that nothing falls on the bungalow,” he added. But the judges admonished the developer. “It is your responsibility to see no nuisance is created,” said Justice Oka. The judges have sought the BMC’s replies at the next hearing on March 28.
 
 
