HYDERABAD: It's a long cherished dream come true for thousands of Sikhs in Hyderabad. The magnificent   will be opened on January 28. The new   stands on the premises where Hyderabad's first Gurudwara was constructed 185 years ago. The old Gurudwara was damaged in a lightning episode in 1950 and since then it has been the dream of the Gurudwara Prabandhak Committee to rebuild it.

 Gurudwara Sahib Baram Bala is located at Sikh Chawni in Kishanbagh, a 10-minute drive from pillar No 143 of PVNR Expressway. The proposal to rebuild the Gurudwara gained momentum about three decades ago, but finally took shape now. The inauguration of the Gurudwara coincides with the 388th birthday celebrations of Guru Hari Rai Sahib.
 
 The new Gurudwara can accommodate about 4,000 devotees. It is the largest Gurudwara in  . The old Gurudwara, in fact, was also the first Gurudwara south of the Vindhya ranges. It now stands on a sprawling 1960 sq feet. There is a spacious 'Langar hall' where over 3,000 devotees can partake food at a time. The holy Guru Granth Sahib would be kept on the first floor of the new Gurudwara. The main hall on the first floor can accommodate about 4,000 devotees.
 
  
  
 
 There are three mini platforms for singers (Thada) to recite Keertans. Two separate chambers, one for   and another for preparation of Kadah Prasad were also set up in the rear side. The Prasad is prepared with wheat flour, sugar, ghee and water and distributed to the devotees.
 
 A separate ramp on the left side of the main temple is also constructed for the benefit of senior citizens and physically challenged persons. They can reach the first floor in a vehicle.
 
 Head priests from various Gurudwaras including Akal Takht, Keshgarh, Damdama, Sach Khand, Dal Baba Bidhi Chand, Nanded, and   would participate.  , the person behind the new Gurudwara, would also attend the event.
 
 Sangath from all Gurudwaras in the city and other parts of Telangana will arrive on January 27 and take part in  . The Prabandhak Committee has made elaborate arrangements for the devotees.
 
 
