A section of the art deco Liberty Cinema in the city was packed with parents and pyaar on Saturday afternoon. As a part of  , a bunch of parents had heart-to-heart discussions about coming-out as parents of   kids at a meet organised by the Mumbai-based parent-driven support group, Sweekar. It was reassuring to see these rainbow parents — most being above 50 — opening their hearts and most importantly, their minds on the subject.

 
 
 As equal rights activist  , who was present at the gathering along with his mother, said, “What we don’t understand is that as kids come out of the closet, parents go in the closet. We need to give them their time and space to deal with this.” And this is exactly what the group aims to do.
 The name ‘Sweekar: The Rainbow Parents’ — which means acceptance in Hindi — says it all. Formed last year, it’s an informal support group, which meets once in three months. It serves as a confidential space for parents who know of their kids’ sexuality, but don’t know how to tackle those around them; they often feel a void within or are in some sort of denial. Talking about the group’s inception, theatre personality and film director,  , also a member of the group, said, “While I came out as a parent in 1993, I felt lonely even though there were things that kept me busy. I would run into the same set of parents at every other community event. I felt there was a need for more parents to come on-board. When (festival director) Sridhar Rangayan came up to me with the idea, it felt like he read my mind and that’s how we all got together. It has been a great platform for all of us to connect. No outsiders are allowed here.” 
 Aruna Desai, another active member of the group, adds, “Even when parents accept their kids, there are apprehensions and several doubts. We have a lot of questions coming our way — be it the problems faced by parents or kids.”
 The group, which started off with eight members, has now gone up to a modest number of 44. Harrish’s mother, Padma Iyer, said, “I was an introvert and always worried about what will happen to my son and how the family will receive the news. I wanted him to settle abroad, so I could say, ‘Hey, he’s out of country’. That never happened and he’s here, out and loud. He took me out for a stroll one day — it was some sort of an acceptance-meet where we met several others. It gave me courage to reciprocate the gesture.” 
 
 
 
 The group emphasises that they are not a counselling group. “We aren’t professionals,” shared Chitra, adding, “But when parents come out to share their stories, we lend them support and help fill in the blanks. We provide them with information on the community and dispel all myths and misconceptions around it. At some point, we will call in experts like psychiatrists, doctors and lawyers to conduct workshops and create awareness.”
 Nilakshi Roy, another parent added, “While there’s a counsel manual available, parents need to take the first step. On our part, we ensure to keep the communication fluid to sensitise people. While we are all ears, we don’t necessarily talk about stories. We participate in interviews, debates, short films, videos and podcasts. Recently, we met a lawyer to start a think-tank. That’s how we try to reach out.”
 Through WhatsApp groups, e-mails and video calls, the group reaches out to people from various parts of the country and world to lend support and guidance.
 
 
 
 Amidst the discussion, it was interesting to see a grandmother, Dheera Sanyal, 75, express support for her grandson Debendra. She said, “I love these gatherings. I am proud of my grandson and support his choices.” Talking about how she broached the subject of Debendra’s sexual orientation, his mother, Arundhati shared, “We showed her (Debendra’s grandmother) some movies and explained what being a member from the community meant. Living up to the image of a grandmother, she can now explain terms relevant to the community far better than most of us.” On his part, Debendra added, “It is wrong to assume that our parents won’t get it; I have been blessed to be accepted just the way I am.” 
 Summing up her coming-out phase as a parent of a rainbow child, Sridhar Rangayan’s mother Yadu Narain, who had had especially flown down for the session, said, “Just by looking at Sridhar, you’ll know I have accepted him.”
 Besides parents, youngsters from different parts of the city, including Bengaluru and Chennai also participated in the discussion. True to the group’s aim and spirit, the discussion ended with the slogan: ‘Jo bhi hain achche hain, yeh humaare bacche hain; Jo bhi hain sachche hain, yeh humaare bacche hain.’
 
