A week after the first FIR was lodged against JNU professor   for allegedly sexually abusing his students – during which he has been arrested and released on bail – the students continue their protest.

 
 After a group of nine JNU students protested in campus for several days, an FIR is lodged against JNU professor Atul Johri in   for allegedly sexually abusing female students in class.
 
  
 
 JNU students protest outside the police station, demanding the arrest and strict legal action against Johri. “Police is intently favouring the accused, trying to safeguard him from the charges,” says JNUSU President  . 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 Students continue their protest against police inaction. “Four days after eight women students came forward with sexual harassment complaints against the professor, no action has been taken, and just one FIR has been lodged,” says JNUSU vice-president Simone Zoya Khan. Police officials say the accused professor was asked to join the investigation, “but he hasn’t joined till now.” 
 
  In a statement, the JNUSU says, “The   has postponed the recording (of statement) of Atul Johri till tomorrow. This (recording) could have been done today itself. We believe that the postponement was done to give him more time. Since an FIR has been registered, he should be interrogated in custody and not given time to protect himself. By giving him more time, the Delhi Police is actively protecting him.”
 
  
  
 
 
    for Women issues a notice to the police, seeking a status report of the case and reasons for not arresting the accused. Another notice sent to JNU Registrar, seeking details of the complaints against the professor and the action-taken report thereon.
 
  Accusing the police of disregarding procedures, 54 JNU professors demand registration of separate FIRs in all complaints of sexual harassment filed against Johri.
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 Police registers eight more FIRs against Johri for alleged sexual misconduct. “A notice has been issued to the professor to cooperate in the police investigation. He had failed to appear on Monday. We have summoned him today (Tuesday),” a senior police officer says.
 
  Johri detained for questioning, and then arrested and produced in court. He is later granted bail by the court. 
 
  “I’m a victim of politics,” Johri tells court during hearing. In his bail plea, Johri says, “In order to ensure that the applicant (Johri) is unable to take any action against them owing to their attendance issues, the complainant (student) herein in connivance with certain other female students, while levelling upon various frivolous allegations, got the present false FIR registered against the applicant.” He adds that the allegations levelled pertains to 2013-14 but the FIR was registered in 2018. 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 JNUSU organises a press conference against the bail granted to Johri. “We are outraged by the bail granted to Prof Atul Johri at   court. The accused was granted bail in eight cases of sexual harassment in 15 minutes. This is unprecedented,” reads a statement issued by the union.
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
