VADODARA: M S University may permanently debar  , a former student of faculty of fine arts, who on Friday had set the university head office here on fire. 

 Taking a step further, the university may also write letters to other universities across the country requesting them not to admit or enrol Chandra Mohan in any academic programmes or activities. 
 
 Chandra Mohan, who was at the centre of the ‘obscenity row’ that rocked the famed faculty of fine arts in 2007 for drawing nude paintings of Gods and Goddess, had on Friday afternoon poured petrol on the door of the chamber of MSU vice-chancellor (VC) leading to a major fire at the university head office. 
 
 The former final year student of master’s of visual arts had even admitted that he had committed the crime as he had got ‘frustrated’ with the delay in the declaration of his results by the university for the last 11 years. 
 
 Even as MSU officials on Saturday were coming to terms to the incident that rocked the campus again, a group of syndicate members decided to move a proposal whereby the former student would permanently lose his right to seek results. 
 
 “There is no question of declaring his results now. In the forthcoming syndicate meeting on February 19, I will move the proposal so that he is permanently debarred from the campus,” said syndicate member  . 
 
 “The question of pardoning such a treacherous and cowardly act does not arise now. The university will deal with this case with utmost strictness. We will withdraw the right of giving degree to him as well,” said another syndicate member  . 
 
 While Chandra Mohan had claimed that he had made at least 40 representations in writing before the university officials to declare his results, MSU VC professor Parimal Vyas refuted the claims. 
 
 “We have not received a single representation either in writing or verbally from him,” Vyas told TOI, adding that he has made a personal appeal to all the members of the university fraternity not to react to the episode without having full information. 
 
 Sources suggest that just a couple of days ago, Chandra Mohan had met a deputy registrar who had advised him to submit a fresh application before the university so that his case can be considered. 
 
 But sources in the university’s syndicate body, most of them affiliated to right wing, suggest that Chandra Mohan’s act has also poured cold water on bleak chances of pending dues of professor Shivaji Panikkar getting cleared. 
 
 After the obscenity row that had rocked the faculty on May 9, 2017, Panikkar, the then in-charge dean of the faculty, had decided to support a decision taken by students of the faculty to put up an exhibition dealing with the long history of erotica in both Indian and Western art. 
 
 He, however, faced ‘disciplinary action’ after he refused to abide by the directives of the university officials to close down the exhibition. 
 
 The professor, who was later suspended by MSU, is currently working with the   and Creative Expressions at  , Delhi but is awaiting to get his pending dues cleared from MSU. 
 
 In December last, the report of the departmental inquiry headed by retired district judge A K Vaishya against Panikkar was placed before MSU’s syndicate members but the decision was deferred. “While the report is expected to be placed in the next syndicate meeting, the prospects of clearing his pending dues seem grim now,” said a syndicate member. 
 
 
