NAGPUR:   is getting better with each passing round. Bringing his run in the Asian Youth Chess Championship back on track, second seed Sankalp posted a hard-fought victory in the seventh round of the U-16 category to share the joint second position in Thailand on Friday.

 
 While Sankalp moved ahead, Mrudul Dehankar and Divya Deshmukh had mixed luck in the U-14 girls’ group on the seventh day. The nine-round qualifying meet for the World Chess Championship is being played in six age categories and organized by the  .
 
 On the third table of the U-16 open section, Sankalp made the most of his opening advantage with white pieces to get the better of Concio Michael Jr from Phillipines. The marathon battle saw Sankalp playing with the regular Kings Pawn opening move to outplay the Sicilian defence of Concio.
 
 With five points in his kitty, Sankalp is still in medal contention and is a point behind sole leader and 10th seeded Vatsal Singhania of India. In the eighth and penultimate round, Sankalp will defend with the black bits against top seed and compatriot Koustav Chatterjee on the second board.
 
 In the U-14 girls’ group, fifth seed   ( ) Mrudul Dehankar suffered a draw, while second seeded Women Fide Master (WFM) Divya Deshmukh posted a facile victory.
 
 On the fourth board, Mrudul failed to utilize her opening advantage to the fullest but managed to play out a draw against inform Nityata Jain. Splitting the points, however, halted the march of Mrudul a bit. With 4.5 points in her kitty and just two rounds remaining the 14-year-old is still stuck at the joint third position with Chinese master Wang Xuwen. Eight players are at the second position behind the sole leader WCM Jyothsna L, who is leading the pack at 5.5 points.
 
 For 12-year-old Divya, the seventh round gave world’s youngest WFM a much-needed victory. On the 11th board, Divya defended well with the black pieces to get the better of WCM Ding Dao En of Malaysia. With this fluent victory, Divya garnered four points and jumped to the joint fourth position. Still in contention of winning a medal in the Asian meet, both the city masters are required to give their best shot in the penultimate round. While Mrudul will be up against top seed   on the sixth board, Divya will be eager to open her account with the white pieces when she meets WFM of Vietnam on the seventh table.
 
