NAGPUR: The indefinite strike by drivers, conductors and other employees of the Nagpur Municipal Corporation ( )-run bus services crippled the transport infrastructure, affecting thousands of citizens and school going students, whose board exams are scheduled to begin from Wednesday. The harried citizens expressed anger and displeasure over the strike and urged the corporation to act immediately.

 A smirking 68-year-old Vijay  , who commutes daily from   to Kadbi square, said, “Buses stand still and autorickshaws are overcharging but work cannot be avoided. For a senior citizen like me with meagre income, it is very difficult to make both ends meet and in such a scenario there is no other option but to walk to the destination. Anger towards the corporation has turned into a feeling of hopelessness now.”
 
 Kamble added, “The NMC had enough time to resolve the issues of the employees of the bus services as notice of the strike was given in January itself. Failure to resolve the issue only suggests casual attitude of the NMC officials who do not have public welfare in mind.”
 
 While the NMC admitted that not a single bus out of the 375 plied in the city, over 1.60 lakh commuters, who solely depend on public transport daily, had to fend for themselves, particularly those who were travelling from the city’s outskirts to the central locations.
 
 TOI surveyed major city bus stands at Mor Bhavan and   and observed that autorickshaw wallahs overcharged as usual while some tried to get to work by car or autorickshaw-pooling. Some preferred to take the app-based taxis, though outer Nagpur areas were badly affected. The strike, however, proved to be a field day for e-rickshaws and cycle rickshaws wallahs who were getting more commuters than usual.
 
 Rashi Malviya, a student, told TOI that the strike has affected her schedule for extra classes and tuitions. “Several students were forced to use personal vehicles or turn to autorickshaws and cabs. The strike comes against the backdrop of exams and commuting has become very difficult.”
 
 Rashi was among the thousands of students who faced hardships due to the callous attitude of the civic officials as they preferred to ignore for months the simmering discontent among the transport services employees.
 
 Another student   said the strike has resulted in increase in the fares of other means of public transport. “Fares of cab services have seen a rise of around 15 to 20% and the autorickshaw drivers are charging exorbitantly. This only shows lack of empathy among the people.”
 
 Housewife   said the middle class, as always, is the worst-affected section due to the strike. “The strike can be termed as failure of the corporation and bus operators to take control of the situation. Moreover, the strike by the employees seem to be correct to some extent as they have a right to protest against any kind of injustice.”
 
 Working class also expressed anguish over the strike. Sunny Singh, who works at a private firm, said, “The public is the real victim. Our daily routine is drastically altered as we have to find other modes of transport. Not only should the corporation immediately resolve the matter, but also take necessary steps to avoid such nuisance in future.”
 
 
