Nagpur: Air fare from the city’s Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar International Airport has increased with the imposition of User Development Fee (UDF) on each ticket for the first time. TOI had on October 19 reported that Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India (AERA) is likely to approve MIHAN India Limited’s (MIL) multiyear tariff petition seeking rise in aeronautical charges along with introduction of UDF. Senior airport director and chief operating officer of MIL VS Mulekar told TOI that landing, parking and housing (LPH) charges (aeronautical charges) to be levied on airlines have been revised with effect from December 16, 2017. “AERA approved the tariff, followed by clearance from Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). MIL revised the charges as per sanction. We don’t know exact revision in air fares by airlines,” he said. Mulekar added UDF, introduced for the first time at Nagpur, is Rs377 per ticket for domestic flights and Rs227 per ticket for international flights. “UDF will be levied by airlines on each and every ticket. Airlines will credit UDF amount in MIL’s account,” he said. Mulekar also said now MIL can think of earning enough from the airport to show no-profit, no-loss on its balance sheet within six months. “The airport could make profits within a year.” The city’s airport was running in losses even before it was taken over by MIL in February 2009. Airports Authority of India (AAI) was operating the airport before that. Charges for the airport were last increased in 2007. MIL, comprising of 51% share of Maharashtra Airport Development Corporation Limited (MADC) and remaining 49% of AAI, planned revision in charges as it was not able to bear the hefty losses. The multiyear tariff approved now will be applicable till March 31, 2021. The revised charges will help MIL find private operator for upgradation and modernization, followed by operation and maintenance of the airport. The process to rope in a private operator is underway. As per revised tariff, the LPH charges have been increased by 50%. Airlines are recovering revised charges from passengers by hiking air fares. As per private booking agencies, air fares have increased to a great extent. AERA has not revised fuel throughput charges, though. As per AERA, the charges are highest in the city as compared to other airports. Also, AERA continued waiver of landing charges for aircraft with a maximum certified capacity of less than 80 seats and operated by domestic scheduled operators. Also, AERA approved waiver of landing and other charges in line with National Civil Aviation Policy under regional connectivity scheme.