NAGPUR: Deeply pained by PM Narendra Modi’s remarks about Indian doctors taking kickbacks from pharma companies, national president of   (IMA) Dr   described the statement as “made in a bad taste”. He also strongly opposed the National Medical Commission (NMC) Bill during a press conference at IMA Hall on Sunday.

 Discussing the NMC Bill, the IMA chief said they are demanding an end to wholesale privatization of medical colleges, and are proposing ‘one drug, one value, one company’ policy.
 
 Dr Wankhedkar said during the conference, “The government should put a stop to health policies that are anti-medical and harmful for people at large.” On similar lines, Dr Wankhedkar said, “While making health policies, and ensure their implementation at the grass roots level, the government should collaborate with the IMA, which is the largest medical association of the country, with some three lakh registered members and over four lakh indirect members.”
 
 Commenting on medical education, Wankhedkar said, “Instead of letting private medical institutions decide on MBBS fees, the government should withdraw the proposal immediately. More and more government medical colleges should be opened, so that any aspirant who wishes to study medical programme will have a fair chance. This will automatically put a check on medical education expenses. If the current scenario continues, only the ultra rich population will be able to afford medical education. The professional course might soon not have enough students, if the common man is not able to apply for it due to financial constraints.”
 
 The proposed National Medical Commission is supposed to monitor medical education and practice. It will also determine fees for up to 40% seats in private medical institutions and deemed universities. There have been various arguments on fee capping by experts. It has been recommended by some experts that fees should be capped to enable access to medical education for all. On the other hand, it has also been suggested that fee capping would discourage entry of private colleges.
 
 About standard price and quality of medicines, Shankar Khobragade said, “After a survey and observation, we have seen that more than two companies manufacturing the same medicinal drug charge consumers differently. Therefore, to stop this exploitation of consumers, we are proposing ‘one drug, one value, one brand’.”
 
 
