BENGALURU: The suspense over  , Madikeri, and Kittur   candidates continued for the fourth day on Wednesday amid protests from supporters of contenders in these constituencies.

 
 A decision on the three constituencies and Jagalur, where sitting MLA H P Rajesh has been replaced by A L Pushpa, will be taken after AICC president   returns to New Delhi from Amethi on Thursday. Party sources said the names of Haris and Syed Yasin for Raichur had been cleared but they were yet to collect the B forms. With this, the total number of tickets given to Muslims is 17.
 
 Protests in Badami by supporters of Dr Devraj Patil, who was given the ticket but not the B form, intensified with a youth slitting his hand. Police rushed him to hospital. There were counter-protests by sitting MLA B B Chimanakkati's supporters, who had agreed to give up the seat only if chief minister   would contest.
 
 However, the CM, who was campaigning in Chamundeshwari, told reporters in Mysuru that he's under tremendous pressure to contest from both Chamundeshwari and Badami. He sought to distance himself from the KPCC decision to withhold the B form to Patil. "On Tuesday, people from Badami asked me to contest from any North   segment," he said. But he refused to say whether he's considering their demand, saying: "I cannot be subjected to cross-examination."
 
 This contradicts his earlier statements where he had ruled out contesting from Badami.
 
 Later in the night, Siddaramaiah met AICC general Secretary K C Venugopal and KPCC chief G Parameshwara at a private hotel in Mysuru. Sitting Badami MLA B B Chimmmanakatti also took part in the the closed-door meeting.
 
 KPCC president G Parameshwara, who has been issuing B forms from a resort in Yelahanka, told reporters that a report had been sought on party nominee from Madikeri, H S Chandramouli, in the wake of reports that he had represented PNB scam accused Mehul Choksi in a cheating case in the Karnataka high court in 2016. The Congress was hoping that by fielding Chandramouli, a Lingayat, the party could garner the community's votes along with that of Muslims and Scheduled Castes in Madikeri, which has become a BJP bastion.
 
 
