NEW DELHI: Opposition parties keen to present an alternative to   should urgently begin identifying seats that will need to be shared for a united contest and the constitution of a committee will help in getting the proposal off the ground,   MP   has said. 

 
 The well known lawyer, who led Congress’s legal fight in the   case, said the presence of several opposition leaders for the swearing-in of the Janata Dal (S)-Congress government indicated the viability of the anti-BJP project but concrete steps will be needed to settle conflicting claims. 
 
 “The possibility that Congress and JD (S) could have won 52% of seats if they had contested together speaks for itself. The leaderships of opposition parties have to take the decision to ally before and not after polls. BJP does well when the opposition is divided and the opposition’s credibility will rise if it allies before hand,” the MP said. 
 
 Singhvi felt a national-level committee will get opposition leaders to focus on the issue while smaller committees consider claims on specific seats. “If all parties contest separately, the voter does not know whether it is fish or fowl. Optics of Samajwadi and   leaders sharing the stage must not be lost,” he said. 
 
 While Singhvi’s views reflect the thinking of sections of Congress and the party leadership had also sought to engage other opposition parties during and after the Budget session of Parliament, contradictions remain with Trinamool Congress’s rivalry with the Left and Congress’s adversarial role as regards AAP in Delhi among other examples. 
 
 “It will certainly require a submergence of egos. But why fight the polls separately and spend a month attacking each other? An alliance will reduce friction and this is what the BJP is really worried about,” he said. 
 
 On the tricky question of who will be seen as PM nominee, the MP felt that if Congress were to emerge with the numbers among opposition parties, the matter of leadership will not need much debate. “The issue should not be a thorn at present. Alliances can be forged if we recognise the larger goal. A pre-poll understanding will not be accused of opportunism and will be appreciated,” he said.
 
