MOHALI: Two armed men broke into four houses in Ananta Housing Society in Ghazipur area of   on Sunday, pointed a gun at a resident and escaped in a getaway car with cash and jewellery in a broad daylight burglary.

  
  
 
 Three burglars entered the housing society in a Maruti Swift Dzire car at a time when the entire police force was busy providing security for President   at IISER around 12.30pm. One of them waited in the car while keeping the engine idling, the two went about breaking locks of the houses. Occupants of three houses were away. The fourth house too was locked, but the son of the owner was sleeping inside.
 
 “I heard some unusual sound. I presumed it to be coming from the construction going on in nearby area. I just woke up to check, when I saw a man standing in front of me with a pistol in his hand,” said  , the resident who was threatened. “Before I could realise anything, he asked me to go away, but his accomplice ordered him to kill me. He brandished the pistol at me and told me to move. Without wasting any time, I locked myself up in the washroom,” said Rohit. His parents had left just 15 minutes before the robbers struck.
 
 Jyoti Sidana, president of the housing society, said houses of Krishan Kumar, Rajiv Kaushal, Neha Bhalla and Ashutosh were targeted. The owners of the flats claimed they lost gold and silver jewellery and Rs 2.5 lakh to Rs 3 lakh in cash. Bhalla said gold and silver jewellery worth Rs 1.5 to 2 lakh was stolen from her house.
 
 Sidana said, “It seems the burglars knew the owners were away as they targeted only these flats. We saw the grey Maruti Swift Dzire car parked under the towers around 12.30 pm. They executed the crime between 1pm and 1.40pm.”
 
 Residents said the car bearing registration number GJ-12-BF-3155 was registered at Kutch area in Gujrat in the name of Bhagwati Kumar S Dave.
 
 Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Satnam Singh, the investigating officer, said police received a call from the residents at 2.15 pm and immediately rushed to the spot. “We have recorded the statement of the victims. An FIR has been registered at the Zirakpur police station. We will procure the CCTV footage of the car and circulate it to other states,” said Satnam Singh.
 
 
