It’s a Saturday morning but not a sluggish one in Akola. With the rising of sun, men, women, kids and the elderly are taking brisk steps. All the alleys lead to  .

 A large part of it is green, with no vestige of clean water. The remaining is shining as sun rays fall on it. The ‘river of waste’ is flowing towards a resurgence.
 
 The ones, who nearly killed it with irrational dumping of waste over the years, are now dirtying their hands to remove the many feet-high debris of toxic waste and water weed.
 
 The morning shows how an idea can bring about a social movement, to which Prime Minister Narendra Modi got “magnetically attracted”. Launched under the Swachh Bharat Mission, the ‘Clean Morna River’ campaign has been witnessing participation of thousands since its start and has now won half the battle with over 60% of the river being free of waste and weeds. 
 
 The river originates in the hills of Ajintha but the movement originated in the mind of a young IAS officer who is now fondly called the ‘Morna Man’ by the locals. April 25, 2017, was the day when Astik Kumar Pandey came to Akola, as its district collector.
 
 While his car was on an overbridge, Pandey saw a long stretch of water body completely covered in green-coloured weed, plastic and other solid waste. “I asked my driver about it and he said this is the heritage river of Akola,” recalls Pandey. Having seen rivers like Godavari and Wainganga during his postings, Morna “did not seem like a river” to him.
 
 Every year, the “cash-strapped” Akola Municipal Corporation would give a tender of about Rs40 lakh to an agency for cleaning the river. But in vain; the river, which merges into Purna River, would get polluted again in no time.
 
 There came a time when Pandey got additional charge of Akola’s municipal commissioner. During his last week in the civic agency, the file of Morna River’s tender was moved to his table. “I decided to stop the tender and instead use the amount for repaying pending wages of employees,” says Pandey.
 
 Around the same time, Pandey in a press conference, was asked if the river will ever get cleaned. That same night, he made up his mind to rejuvenate it but through public participation. “I didn’t want it to be a normal government programme and get burdened under red tape,” says Pandey.
 
 In a city like Akola where many political groups hold the sway, uniting everybody for one cause was a challenge. “The first step was getting all the stakeholders together — NGOs, teachers, Zilla Parishad members, corporators and others. After some brainstorming sessions, we chalked out a plan to start river cleaning from January 13,” tells sub-divisional officer Sanjay Khadse, who is also the project’s nodal officer.
 
 14 locations within an area of 4km on both sides of the river were identified, where the water was most covered with weed. “While publicizing about the campaign, we went out to the streets as well as made best use of social media. Every other day, we would release a video of some political leader or public figure urging people to participate,” says Pandey who, not wanting to “disturb people on a Sunday”, chose Saturday as the D-Day.
 
 The district administration was hopeful but never expected a crowd of more than 7,000 on the campaign’s first day. Every Saturday since then has been the same.
 
 The day starts around 8am with some groups voluntarily distributing gloves. Last Saturday’s campaign was dedicated to women and saw participation of hundreds of Anganwadi workers who came from surrounding villages.
 
 The women, school and college students, families and government servants — all have a dedicated spot along the banks of 5-6 kilometre long river stretch that flows through the city. Soon, Pandey arrives, and with a team of firemen, starts surveying the area which is to be cleaned.
 
 The flotsam of garbage on the river is so thick that the collector and some workers are actually standing on it. “The river has turned into a swamp and judging the depth can get difficult. Some days back, a poclain machine almost sunk while cleaning the river,” tells Pravin Shirsat, the collector’s bodyguard.
 
 Now to ensure safety of citizens, they are not allowed to get inside the river but clean the banks. “Every day is a learning day. We have not hired any experts and are ourselves figuring out new cleaning techniques,” says fireman Vishwanath Dage, who with his team member is using a thick rope to gather all the weeds and waste on the river’s edge.
 
 While a group of men are pulling out plastic waste buried deep inside the river’s banks, women are busy forming a human chain some meters away. Soon, they start passing on the collected trash which is finally loaded into trucks. “We are not disposing the water weeds as the officials are planning to make compost out of it,” says Sunanda Gaikwad, an anganwadi worker. 
 
 70-year-old Saraswati Paikrao is also standing in a line of young women. “I hope to see the river as it was during my childhood — clean and refreshing. Though the stench now made it impossible to stand near it, decades ago we would spend hours playing here,” she says. 14-year-old Sanmeet Khadse has always seen the river full of trash but has the same desire as Saraswati. He is digging out waste to “see how good the river can look when clean”.
 
 So does animal husbandry department’s assistant commissioner Dr Namrata Babulkar, livestock officer Dr Komal Kade and snake rescuer Bal Kalne. “We are lucky that the river flows through the heart of our city,” is one thing they all agree upon. 
 
 The day when the initiative was lauded by PM on Mann Ki Baat was celebrated like a festival. “The campaign became talk of the town. People are coming forward to contribute in any way they can. Many contractors have offered to provide JCBs free of cost,” officials say.
 
 Apart from unregulated dumping of garbage, it is believed that discharge of some “foreign seeds” led to uncontrollable growth of weed in Morna. “There used to be two cotton and a vegetable-oil industries upstream. From what we heard, many seeds would be brought to Akola from foreign countries and entry of some of them in the river led to growth of weed,” says Madanlal Sharma, retired district TB officer.
 
 Around 10am, the collector along with some officials start taking a round. They stop to applaud students of Jawaharlal Navodaya Vidyalaya who have managed to clean a good portion of the river bank allotted to them.
 
 At some distance, a young couple is seen hurrying towards the ground zero. “I wanted to sleep but my wife insisted that we should participate in the event. After all, it’s our river and we should have an attachment for it,” says the husband. 
 
 Members of Pinjar-based Sant Gadgebaba rescue team are continuously on their toes, taking care of citizens’ safety. “We have life boats and take all necessary precautions to avoid any unfortunate incident,” the members say.
 
 The movement is getting political support too. Guardian minister Ranjit Patil arrives to motivate the people. “This initiative is a perfect example of what a convergence of common men and administration can do,” he says.
 
 Also, local MLA Govardhan Sharma and MP Sanjay Dhotre have agreed to shell out money from their funds for the river’s development. “Dhotre, Sharma and another MLA Randhir Sawarkar have given Rs15 lakh from their MP and MLA Fund on my request,” says Pandey.
 
 People are hopeful that the river rejuvenation will help fight drought-like conditions in Akola. “Since we started cleaning the river, some nearby residents informed that the level of groundwater in their wells has been increasing,” says Pandey.
 
 Experts feel that the cleaning drive will also improve public health. “Mosquito menace used to be a big problem for nearby residents. Over the years, the spread of communicable diseases has only increased. The cleaning of river will definitely solve health issues,” says Deepali Ghadge, the only woman sanitary inspector at Akola.
 
 Towards the end of the day, the officials take a count of amount of waste removed and plan the next week’s strategy. The administration plans to continue the drive for over a month till the remaining 2-3 kilometres of the river patch gets cleaned. “At points where major and minor drains meet the river, we will be setting-up septic tanks and small ponds in which solid waste will be collected and removed. We are also looking at technologies to ensure that no clean water enters the river,” says Pandey.
 
 Apart from this, the administration plans to build ghats on both sides of the river banks. “Gardens and hawker’s zone are also on the cards,” says Khadse. 
 
 The day’s work finally ends at noon — with selfies and revelries. A group of people are singing inspiration songs — urging people to put their gloves on and come again next Saturday.
 
 What PM Modi said about efforts to clean the river
 
 “Shri Mangesh from Maharashtra has shared a photo on the Narendra Modi Mobile App. It was such a striking photo that my attention was magnetically drawn towards. The photo showed that a grandson was participating in the Clean Morna River initiative along with his grandfather. I came to know that the citizens of Akola had organized a cleanliness campaign to clean Morna river under the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan.
 
 “The Morna river was a perennial river flowing throughout 12 months of the year but now it has become seasonal. The second painful fact was that the river was completely filled with wild grass and hyacinth. A lot of garbage was being dumped into the river and along its banks.
 
 “An action plan was chalked out and on January 13, a day before Makara Sankranti, in the first phase of Mission Clean Morna, sanitation of the two sides of the bank of Morna river at 14 places spread over an area of four kilometers, was carried out.
 
 “This noble and grand task named Mission Clean Morna involved more than 6,000 denizens of Akola, more than 100 NGOs, colleges, students, children, the elderly, mothers, sisters, almost everybody participated in this task. On January 20, this sanitation campaign continued in the same vein and I’ve been told that this campaign will continue every Saturday morning till Morna river is completely cleaned.
 
 “Mission Clean Morna shows that if a person is determined to do something, then nothing is impossible. Huge social reforms can be brought about through mass movements.
 
 “I congratulate the people of Akola, the district and the municipal corporation’s administration, all the citizens who were associated with this mass movement, I laud your efforts which are not only very much appreciated but this will inspire other citizens of the country.
 
 
