SECUNDERABAD: There seems to be no closure yet to the vexed issue as 14 public roads in Secunderabad Cantonment continue to be shut for commuters, three days after the ministry of defence (MoD) issued an order asking the Local Military Authority ( ) to reopen all the closed roads.

 
 While 25 roads were closed by the LMA a few years ago, only 11roads have been reopened since Monday’s order. “Even after three days, the LMA continues to play truant. On some of the roads, thick walls and makeshift blocks stand as a testimony to LMA’s audacity. For instance, there is a permanent wall at the defence residential quarters (Golden Palm Enclave) towards All Saints Church and another at Lakdawala (to proceed towards Rashtrapati Nilayam) which have not been pulled down. Because of this, commuters are unable to use the roads,” a resident of Bolarum told 
 .
 
 Also, the blocks at Holy Trinity Church at Bolarum and   made the matters worse for the residents. What has upset lakhs of residents is LMA going back on its promise made on Monday — stated through an official release that it would lift restrictions on all the roads and keep them open 24/7 for residents and commuters.
 
 Some of the roads which are still in “shut mode” include: Empress Road (All Saints Road-Wesley Church), RA Lines Road, Service Road under RK Puram flyover (though an R&B road, it was closed by LMA), Balaklava Road-Ammuguda/Batticaloa circle link road, Surender Marg, Puri Singh Marg and   (Amherst Road).
 
 Worried by the LMA’s dilly-dallying, the Federation of North Eastern Colonies of Secunderabad (FNECS) on Wednesday sought urgent clarity from the LMA on the number of roads that have been opened and announce a schedule for reopening all the roads. “This will benefit lakhs of citizens and commuters using these roads. We hope that bonhomie and goodwill generated by opening the closed roads will lead to better civil-military cooperation,” CS Chandrasekhar, a representative of  , said.
 
 Even as it demanded that the LMA put up signboards on the roads that were opened and remove permanent structures, FNECS office-bearers welcomed the LMA’s steps to do away with night curbs on four AOC roads — Entrenchment Road, Gough Road, Wellington Road and Ordnance Road. They also lauded reopening of Mornington Road. “We request the LMA to talk to the police brass and deploy traffic cops to man the junctions and roads to regulate traffic,” a member of FNECS said. FNECS also faulted the military authorities stopping vehicles on some of the roads and insisting on ID verification of commuters.
 
