PUNE: The   of the city police on Monday formed a   ( ) to investigate the cases involving virtual currencies. The police have registered two cases of cheating and have received 22 complaint applications since January this year. The collective cheating amount in the two FIRs — registered with   and Nigdi police stations — is more than Rs 2.20 crores.

 The SIT will be headed by inspector Radhika Phadke of cybercrime cell. The reason to form the SIT is the growing number of complainants and complaint applications. Also, all the complaint applications point towards one prime suspect, who is now based in Dubai. Phadke will be assisted by four inspectors and constables. The SIT’s priority will be to investigate cheating cases and track the online money trails.
 
 
  
 On March 15, Nigdi police had booked five persons, including a city-based promulgator of Bitcoins and other cryptocurrencies, for duping a 65-year-old person to the tune of Rs 1 crore. The suspects had convinced the elderly man from Pradhikaran to buy .93 Bitcoin as an investment. The suspects then sold the currency without the man’s knowledge, police said.
 
 Earlier, the state’s first virtual currency fraud-related FIR was registered by the Dattawadi police on January 16. A 46-year-old woman entrepreneur from Pune-Satara Road had lodged the complaint stating that a techie had cheated her of Rs 13 lakh. The Dattawadi police had arrested the proprietor of a software company, Akash Sancheti, for duping several persons by investing their money in Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies and not returning the invested amounts, nor the promised profits. The Dattawadi police team, headed by senior inspector Anil Patil, arrested two more persons, including a woman, in the case. Police had seized different virtual currencies and cash worth over Rs 2 crores. The case now has been transferred to the cybercrime branch for further investigations. Moreover, the cybercrime cell arrested three men in the Nigdi case for duping the elderly businessman.
 
 Advocate Ameya Dange, who represents the Dattawadi complainant, said, “The complainant and the suspects entered into an agreement to purchase Bitcoins. However, the suspects diverted the funds to purchase other virtual currencies. The also provided some gold coins, which turned out to be iron coins polished with gold.”
 
