NOIDA: The audit report of builders implementing projects in Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna expressway areas will be completed in three or four days and submitted to the state government, chief secretary Rajive Kumar said during his maiden visit to the district on Monday.

 “After that, criminal or civil action will be taken against the builders on a case-to-case basis, depending on the facts and findings of the audit report,” Kumar said.
 
 A draft report has been prepared by the authorities after auditing the accounts of 62 builders in the three areas.
 
 Sources said 14 builder projects involving nearly 36,000 houses had been examined in Noida and they were found to have outstanding dues worth nearly Rs 7,500 crore. In Greater Noida, 25 builder projects with about 61,000 flats had been under the scanner of the audit agency. These builders have an outstanding of more than Rs 4,000 crore.
 
 The financial and physical audit of the builder projects in Noida and Greater Noida have been carried out by an international firm called Currie & Brown, which was hired through global tenders in November last year. 
 
 The audit was conducted on 11 points, including details such as money collected by a builder from homebuyers, details of banks and other institutions, money spent on land or construction by the builders and how much money was required to finish a project. 
 
 Other details, such as availability of funds with the builder and his five-year balance sheet, were also scrutinised before the draft report was submitted to the authorities last week.
 
 In areas under YEIDA, the accounts of 23 of the total 28 builder projects have been audited, sources said. Although the details of the report are yet to be revealed, sources said the   had found irregularities in the accounts of at least two builders, who had allegedly diverted about Rs 355 crore collected from homebuyers to other sectors. The audit in the YEIDA area was carried out by a five-member committee, headed by additional CEO Amarnath Upadhyay.
 
 The chief secretary also reviewed the status of the projects in the three areas and the number of flats handed over to buyers.
 
 “By February this year, nearly 50,000 flats will be handed over to buyers,” he said. “So far, we have handed over 25,000 flats since September 2017. I have directed officials to expedite the completion of another 25,000 flats by February,” he added.
 
 Kumar was in Noida to review the status of the builder-buyer stalemate besides reviewing and expediting a slew of infrastructure projects in the three areas ahead of the Uttar Pradesh investors’ summit in Lucknow next month.
 
 “I reviewed some projects, including the Jewar airport, DMIC project, multi-modal and transport hubs, and directed the officials to remove any roadblocks in their progress,” Kumar said.
 
 
