LUDHIANA: A government school teacher has accused teachers of another government senior secondary school in   of allegedly raping a school girl and conspiring to abort her foetus when she got pregnant. 

 A whistleblower teacher has sent a complaint to the Director General of Police (DGP) Suresh Arora, the Secretary  , the director public instructions (DPI- Secondary) Paramjit Singh, The Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM- Raikot)   and the   (secondary) Swaranjit Kaur.
 
 Besides the compliant the teacher has forwarded an audio clip of 3 minutes and 50 seconds in which two men (allegedly the school teachers) are discussing the way of getting Student's abortion done. They allegedly say they would make her fell down in school and then rush her to hospital. They are also planning how they would avoid taking along a woman teacher. (TOI has a copy of complaint and the audio clip).
 
 The complainant told TOI, “I was posted in that school and got transferred about eight months ago. A few days back I received the audio clip in which I recognized the in-charge principal of school talking to another teacher about the case. I was shocked."
 
 He added, "I am not sure if they have gone ahead with the abortion. As soon as I got to know about it, I raised the issue with authorities concerned. If these teachers are not punished they can target another girl too."
 
 The complaint states that- The conversation of In-charge principal of respective school with another school teacher has been recorded and is being viral. It is clear from the conversation that the teachers have raped a school girl and are conspiring to get her abortion done. It is a serious matter for which I want a high level inquiry and quick action.
 
 Confirming the matter, the district education officer (secondary)   said, “We have received a complaint in this matter with an audio clip and inquiry has been marked."
 
 The Deputy District Education Officer (secondary) Chanranjit Singh, who will be inquiring the matter said, “I will visit the school tomorrow for inquiry. There the voices recorded in audio will be identified.”
 
 The Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Jagraon Surjeet Singh said, "I am not aware of the matter however will immediately inquire about it."
 
