PATNA: The prevailing spell of pre-monsoon showers at most places in Bihar is likely to continue for another five days as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a forecast for scattered   in all the 38 districts of the state till June 2.

 Warning has also been issued for thunderstorm with gusty winds in an isolated manner across the state over the next three days.
 
 The IMD has attributed the pre-monsoon showers to a trough running through a cyclonic circulation over Madhya Pradesh and neighbourhood to east Assam across southeast Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Meghalaya.
 
 The showers have also provided respite to residents reeling under sultry weather conditions for the past one week. Weather conditions improved slightly in the state capital on Tuesday as the maximum temperature plunged from 39 degrees C on Monday to 34.8 degrees on Tuesday.
 
 The Patna Meteorological Centre has predicted that the maximum temperature is likely to plunge to 35 degrees C by next Monday. 
 
 “The present thunderstorm activity is a local phenomenon attributed to the atmospheric instability that leads to the development of a conjunction in cloud formation. The state may experience isolated rainfall and thunderstorm for the next two-three days,” Met office meteorologist Sandeep Kumar said.
 
 Meanwhile, the IMD declared that southwest monsoon had hit Kerala on Tuesday afternoon, which is two days ahead of its normal onset date of June 1. The normal date for onset of monsoon in Bihar through the north-eastern districts of Purnia and Katihar, among others, is June 10 and it hits central parts of the state. including Patna around June 13.
 
 “We will be able to make better predictions in another five-six days by assessing if the prevailing conditions are favourable for the onset of monsoon in the state. It may hit Bihar earlier than expected, probably by June 8 or June 9,” Sandeep told TOI.
 
 The meteorologist said there were no chances of the state experiencing heatwave any more. In meteorological terms, a heatwave is declared in this part of the world when the maximum temperature exceeds 40 and is at least 4.5 degrees above normal.
 
 
