

 Swara Bhasker could not have imagined the chaos she would unleash with her critique of Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s Padmaavat. It was her use of the word ‘vagina’ rather than her argument about jauhar that got her critics all hot and bothered. Trolled, maligned, misunderstood and patronised, Bhasker stays cool, and stands her ground. “If people don’t agree with me, it’s alright. It’s a democratic country,” she has said.
 Swara is not your garden variety movie star — the daughter of a film studies professor, she is avowedly progressive, schooled in feminist politics. But she is one of a generation of female actors who are done with being sugar and spice and everything nice. They don’t want to just to be constructs of other people’s desires, or cultivate a starry mystique — they speak up for what they believe. Their positions are not timed to a movie release, or even to polish their personal brands.
 
 Think of Renuka Shahane, whose clear and free voice was a discovery to many fans. Or  , who isn’t afraid to offend anyone,  , who holds her space with dignity, or  , who refuses to be squashed. Look beyond  , and there are mainstream Malayali actors like Manju Warrier and Parvathy, who are upturning the sexist norms of their industry. Parvathy hit the headlines when she questioned veteran star   for misogynist lines in a movie — when he, as a loutish police officer tells his female boss this: “I will f**k you so hard that you will find it difficult to walk. I will hurt you so badly that your menstrual cycle will go for a toss.” She was attacked for being a chit of a girl who dared to speak as a peer to a pillar of the establishment. She remains unfazed by the rape and death threats — literally giving the finger to her abusers on Twitter.
 
 It is this new cohort of articulate   that is making up for the movie industry’s sorry record of appeasing power. For decades now, our biggest filmmakers and actors have meekly given in to street bullies, sought patronage and protection from politicians, rather than stating their own beliefs, or even sticking up for each other.
 
 We often complain about the wussiness of our stars — but the movie business only reflects the larger ethos. In the 1940s and 50s, its spirit was consciously progressive, as were its actors, writers and directors. In the confusing, contradictory 70s and 80s, there was a parallel strand of arty, activisty public figures, and the last couple of decades have reflected the cheerfully sold-out, risk-averse logic of our times. By and large, we do get the celebrities we deserve.
 
 So what has changed, and why are these women now speaking up with such force and clarity? Because sometimes, a threshold is reached. Going along is suddenly understood as more painful, more demeaning, than asserting oneself, as the MeToo contagion in Hollywood shows. This is also what the Kerala movie business is now dealing with.
 
 For the first time, women in the Kerala film industry, from highest-profile actors to behind-the-scenes technicians, have come together to form a collective. They press for a better working environment, higher pay, and institutional recourse against sexual harassment. It was galvanised when a fellow actor was sexually abused to show her her place, but the movement is pulling up older norms by the root.
 
 The Women in Cinema Collective is not just about saying sassy things, though, it is about actively expanding opportunities for its workers. It is not the glib girl power that our ads and films use to sell stuff or go viral, it is a feminist solidarity born out of bitter experience. As the feminist scholar Tara S Nair writes, this “could go down in Indian film history as a landmark event”, an “eloquent challenge” to the patriarchal status quo, and it has everything to do with a generational shift.
 
 We don’t have enough movies where women convey their own realities — where they are just ordinarily human, no more, no less, living in a world not of their making. Even our ‘feminist’ movies are made by men, for an Aamir Khan or Amitabh Bachchan or Shah Rukh Khan to showboat in, and ‘empower’ women from above. There’s a clear difference when the movie is made by women, whether it is the erotic revolutionaries of Lipstick Under My Burkha or even the home-truths of a   movie. 
 
 Movie stars matter, because the movies matter greatly. The Kerala activism is significant, not just because it gets women in the movie industry a better deal, but because they make a public argument for another way of being. Bhasker’s unpopular opinion might nudge someone to consider the politics of where the camera lingers, what it excludes. Cinema doesn’t just mirror our attitudes, it also moulds our minds. If female actors refuse to be routinely diminished, that could make for better, truer cinema, and help young people grow up with less stifling straitjackets. 
 
