PANAJI: Chief minister Manohar  , who is currently undergoing medical   in the US, has said that he hopes to return to Goa by May third week. 

 “By grace of God and all your prayers, I am recovering well. My next phase of treatment is starting from next week and I hope to return back to Goa by third week of May,” Parrikar said in a written message to   state executive members here on Thursday.
 
 Expressing his regret for being unable to attend the state executive meeting, Parrikar in his message told them to prepare the party for the general polls. “The party needs to prepare for the Lok Sabha elections 2019 and ensure that we win both the seats with huge margins,” he wrote.
 
 Goa has two Lok Sabha seats and both are currently held by BJP.
 
 He also asked the executive members to take stock of the political situation in the state and prepare for party president Amit Shah’s visit to Goa next month. 
 
 “(The party must) Conduct various programmes and activities to convey the government’s achievements to every household in the state and (show) commitment to resolve different difficulties faced by the people and the state,” Parrikar wrote.
 
 Rajya Sabha MP and BJP state president Vinay Tendulkar said he and other office-bearers spoke to Parrikar before the state executive. “This is the first time Parrikar has been unable to attend BJP’s state executive meeting,” he said.
 
 Parrikar’s message about his return and asking his party members to gear up for the Lok Sabha polls comes at a time when Congress has been vocal in trying to build an opposition against the coalition government in the state and trying to build a momentum for the 2019 elections. 
 
 Parrikar, who was diagnosed with pancreatitis, was admitted to Lilavati Hospital in Mumbai on February 15. He was discharged after a week and returned to Goa to present the budget on February 21.
 
 After spending a couple of days at home, he was admitted to Goa Medical College and Hospital. Later, he was again admitted to Lilavati Hospital on March 5 and based on the advice of the Mumbai doctors, was taken to the US for advanced treatment.
 
 On Monday, a Congress delegation had met governor Mridula Sinha and demanded that the decisions taken by the cabinet adivsory committee, a three-member ministerial panel appointed by Parrikar in his absence to advise the government, be set aside as its formation was “unconstitutional”. 
 
 They also sought regular updates on Parrikar’s   and convening of the assembly session at the earliest. The month-long budget session was adjourned on February 22, after three days of sitting, due to Parrikar’s ill-health.
 
 
