NEW DELHI:   and   got into a   on Monday during a   towards   to protest against the   being carried out in the capital. A few party volunteers as well as cops got injured in the clash when the former were stopped near Patel Chowk metro station.

 Though AAP has alleged that police resorted to “unprovoked” lathi charge on the volunteers, including women, officers said that mild force was used to disperse a group of 50-60 protesters who attacked the cops on duty. An FIR has been lodged against the AAP supporters for causing hurt to a public servant on duty.
 
 The protesters had been given a designated place to stage a dharna, but 50-60 of them decided to march towards Parliament. “Senior officers requested them to return to the place of protest, but they refused to go. A minimal force was used to restrain them. They were detained at Parliament Street police station and let off after some time. Eight policemen were injured in the scuffle,” said DCP (PRO) Madhur Verma.
 
 Those detained included AAP functionaries Ashutosh, Dilip Pandey and Durgesh Pathak, besides several MLAs and councillors.
 
 “The police action on AAP volunteers was barbaric. It was an attempt of the government to throttle the voice of the people,” alleged AAP Delhi convener Gopal Rai. “A woman volunteer sustained serious injuries in her leg and had to be admitted to a hospital. A couple of other supporters were also hospitalised after getting beaten up,” Ashutosh added.
 
 Blaming Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the sealing, the protestors shouted slogans like “Sealing nahi ye killing hai, FDI ki dealing hai” and “BJP aai, sealing laai”. A volunteer alleged that traders are witnessing the worst time under the Modi government. “Now traders will have to sell pakodas to feed their family members,” he said while distributing fritters.
 
 Rai announced that the protests against sealing will intensify from Tuesday. “AAP councillors and volunteers will protest at Civic Centre to pressure the civic bodies and the Centre into stopping the sealing drive,” he added.
 
 “It’s become clear that only the central government and municipal corporations can stop the sealing drive, but BJP is misguiding the traders,” Rai said.
 
