BENGALURU: Around 20,000   here and over 1 lakh across the state may   on May 30 and 31 as part of the   organised by the   to push for a reasonable wage revision.

 
 Nine employees’ associations have rejected the 2% wage revision proposed on May 5. Around 10 lakh employees are expected to go on strike across India. In Bengaluru, employees will stage a dharna from sunrise to sunset outside the State Bank of Mysore building on Kempegowda Road on both the days.
 
 All public sector and cooperative banks may participate, along with some old-generation private banks like Vijaya Bank, Federal Bank, Dhanlaxmi Bank, among others. No staff of private sector banks, formed after 1991, will participate.
 
 The Indian Banks Association, which has 46 member banks, represents them before the finance ministry. In the last round of negotiations earlier this month, IBA offered a 2% hike in wages as of March 31, 2017. Additionally, it also restricted negotiations on wake hike of officers up to Scale III or the junior-most employees only. “There’s no clarity on the kind of wage hike claimed by senior officers. Restricting the revision of 2% only up till Scale III is autocratic. When even senior bank officials, right up to the assistant general manager level, are subject to the same rules and laws, why are they not part of the revision?” said SK Srinivas, president, State Bank of India Officers’ Association (Karnataka).
 
 The associations said they’re being forced to pay for bad decisions of the managements when it came to writing off loans. Despite generating huge operating profits, associations claim they are given unfair wages.
 
 “We try to safeguard public money. They have the audacity to offer us a 2% wage revision after waiving loans to the tune of Rs 2,70,000 crore in favour of big ticket corporates. In the past decade, 70% of our profits have evaporated due to provisions for bad loans and non-performing assets. When volume of business has increased, inflation is uncontrolled and prices have gone up unabated, can wages be depressed?”asked H V Rai, convener, UFBU.
 
