CHENNAI: The abrupt reactions-averted eyes, prolonged stares-that are triggered every time she steps out do not bother   anymore. 

 This attention, the 29-year-old mooted at a meeting in the city on Friday, is what transsexuals like her could tap to push social campaigns from the government. 
 
 "It is unlikely my generation will see a time when people see a transsexual and not stare. We can use this to our advantage by campaigning for various schemes provided by the government," said Andrea, who has been struggling to find a job for the last five years.
 
 Andrea was among 200 people who attended the programme, jointly organised by the city police and various organisations that work for the welfare of the third sex.
 
 Once described as being the main perpetrators of harassment for the community, the city police are now reaching out by facilitating jobs. In the second such initiative in as many years, senior police officers interacted with members of the community to find out their qualifications and needs.
 
 "At least 60% of those who attended are school dropouts," said a police officer who was part of the initiative. While some wanted help in starting new businesses like catering units, beauty parlours and shops, many others, like Andrea, wanted a government job. 
 
 "They feel that they have a trait many lack in the government sector - empathy. They sought jobs as cooks and caretakers in state-run children's homes," said the officer. 
 
 In the job mela organised by the police department in 2016, at least three transsexuals had been placed in the private sector and one was employed as a teacher. The representatives of around 10 private companies and four banks had attended the programme to recruit.
 
 Activist Apsara  , who was among the organisers of Friday's interaction, said that they were on the lookout for companies that did not just hire them but were also sensitive to their needs. "We don't want to be in a place where we are ridiculed instead of being understood," said Reddy. This year's job mela, she said, would be held in a month.
 
 
