JAIPUR: The city woke up to a shock on Saturday as a major fire at a house in Sector 9 of   area claimed the lives of five people of a family.

 The massive fire at 4 am engulfed the entire two-storied independent house, burning it to ashes before anyone from the neighbourhood became aware of it. The five victims, including senior citizen   and his grand-children, are said to have woken up and cried for help after the fire spread through the house. 
 
  
  
 
 The pressure shattered the glass and blew open the windows, which were tightly shut due to the cold weather. 
 
 None of the occupants managed to escape from the inferno.
 
 While   and his granddaughters, who were sleeping in the rooms on the ground floor, were charred to death; his grandson and his cousin, who were sleeping on the first floor and had burn injuries, died due to suffocation. 
 
 
 
 Jaipur: Mahendra Garg (80), a businessman of iron roads and originally from Muzaffarnagar; Apurva Garg (23), who was pursuing MBA at St Xavier’s College and preparing for civil services exam; Arpita Garg (22), also an MBA student at St Xavier's College; Animesh Garg (16), a Class XI student at a private school; Shaurya Garg (25), a cousin of Gargs and pursuing LLB at a private college in the city, are the unfortunate victims who died in the fire.
 
 This was the second massive fire reported from the city in less than 48 hours. On Thursday, a fire had gutted a marriage lawn, Rose Garden, situated at Jawahar Cirle. After both the incidents, the firemen of the Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) came under severe criticism and scrutiny for ‘non-performance’ and failure to control the fire.
 
 Neighbours made serious allegations against the firemen for negligence and poor quality of fire tenders. Jaipur mayor Ashok Lahoty suspended three firemen for failing to respond and react in a timely manner.
 
 The incident happened in the wee hours on Saturday. Around 4 am, labourers, sleeping in a nearby house, woke up at the sound of shattering glass. Realising it was a massive fire at House No 39, owned by the Garg family, they alerted the neighbours.
 
 Sanjiv Garg, who owns a steel factory, was in Agra along with his wife to attend a wedding. He was informed about the fire by a neighbour and the couple rushed back to Jaipur.
 
 Police and firemen said the inferno was so massive that the inmates could not reach the exit doors. Garg’s body was found near the gate, which opens to the backside of the house while the bodies of granddaughters were found in their respective rooms.
 
 “A policeman managed to enter the house after climbing up the balcony on the first floor and unlocked the balcony door. Sanjiv’s son Animesh was rescued but succumbed on the way to hospital,” said Rajesh Meel, additional deputy commissioner of police (north).
 
 “Three members of the Garg family, who were sleeping on the ground floor. They were charred to death. The two people on the first floor died due to suffocation,” he added.
 
 
 
