GUWAHATI: The ongoing budget session of the assembly witnessed huge uproar on Monday as members of both the ruling party and the opposition raised the gruesome rape and murder of a Class V student at   in Nagaon district during Question Hour. Congress members even staged a walkout after their plea for adjournment of the day's business for a special discussion to devise stricter laws for rape convicts was turned down by deputy speaker Dilip Kumar Paul, who was in the chair then. 

 Last Friday, prime accused   had raped the girl at her home in front of two minor boys and classmates of the girl when her parents were out on work at  . Later, the trio set her on fire. She received 90% burn injuries and died early on Saturday while being brought to Gauhati Medical College and Hospital.
 
 During Question Hour, some members raised slogans demanding new laws that provide death sentence to those found guilty in rape cases while some others wanted life imprisonment. But everyone was united in one aspect - to make the existing laws tougher. Ruling party legislator  , who represents the Batadraba constituency where the incident took place, was not allowed to speak on the issue by the deputy speaker despite her plea. 
 
 Veteran Congress leader Tarun Gogoi, who also joined the protest, said outside the house, "It's time the government adopted new laws that will ensure maximum punishment for those guilty of rape." He added that chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal, who also holds the home portfolio, has failed to provide security to women. "BJP's beti bachao... slogan is just a mere slogan. The   government of   is least concerned about women's security." Referring to the government's decision to close down a women's university in Sivasagar district, he said said the government is not serious about empowering women. 
 
 Leader of the opposition,  , said, "We make laws here. So, we wanted adjournment of today's business and hold a special discussion so that we can initiate steps for tougher laws to prevent rape convicts from escaping by using the existing loopholes." 
 
 Talking to the media, Sonowal said, "The government will take strict action to ensure that the guilty are not spared. Some elements are trying to commit crimes across the state and we have instructed police to go all out in curbing such incidents." He added that the government would examine the demand for stricter laws. 
 
 There have been widespread protests across the state against the Nagaon incident and a large section of people is demanding death sentence for rape convicts. The protest reached the assembly, which reassembled after a few days of recess, on Monday.
 
 
