MUMBAI:  , the country’s largest private sector company in terms of revenues, along with several global firms, will invest over Rs 60,000 crore in the next 10 years to set up India’s first-ever integrated digital industrial area in  , its chairman   said on Sunday.

 Ambani said that more than 20 global companies including Siemens, Cisco, Dell, HP, Corning, Nvidia and Nokia have agreed to collaborate and coinvest in the venture.
 
 This initiative, he said, would give a big push to disruptive technologies such as artificial intelligence, robotics, blockchain, virtual and augmented reality and make Mah arashtra the cradle of the fourth industrial revolution. “What China could achieve with its manufacturing revolution, India can achieve much more and quickly in the services-led fourth industrial revolution,” Ambani said at the global investor summit, Magnetic Maharashtra.
 
 
  
 He, however, didn’t reveal any details about the proposed integrated digital project.
 
 Anand Mahindra, chairman of  , revealed a Rs 500 crore MoU with the state government for manufacture of e-vehicles. Maharashtra recently announced an electric vehicle policy with a slew of benefits for both manufacturer and consumers. Mahindra also announced the building of a Bollywood-themed entertainment destination on the company’s own land in Kandivli at a cost of Rs 1,700 crore. The company will also invest Rs 125 core in an all-green tech park in Nagpur that is expected to generate 2,000 jobs. Mumbai is a jewel in the crown of the country, but that is also a double-edged sword, said Mahindra. “If Mumbai continues to groan under its weight, it will drive away investors.”
 
 Prime Minister   said the BJP government in the state as well as the Centre has ushered in policy reforms to develop an atmosphere conducive to bringing in foreign investment. “These investment summits are an example of co-operative, competitive federalism. Every state is trying to showcase its best to draw more investments,” he said.
 
 The PM said that when the country entered the trillion-dollar economy club, the media had gone to town. “But then after that, all we could hear about were scams. Forget trillion-dollar, people were then talking about India as part of the fragile five,” said Modi. He said things had changed a lot in the last 3.5 years of BJP governance and now the government was aiming to take India to the $5-trillion economy club by 2025.
 
 “So far we have sanctioned Mudra loans worth Rs 4.6 lakh crore to boost self-investments,” said Modi.
 
 Industrialist   said that for several years the industrial revolution had outpaced the state’s capacity to provide infrastructure. But now the government was laying importance on infrastructure again.
 
