It’s been a year since   retired from professional   and kind of moved on in life, involving himself in different initiatives for kids and sports development. Of late, he’s taken it upon himself to promote   among fitness enthusiasts. We spotted him at IIT-Saarang last weekend as a part of the obstacle race that was put up during the campus fest. In a freewheeling chat with Chennai Times, he opened up on life after retirement, why India still fails to produce a top-class singles player, the rise of badminton, and this year’s  , among other things. 

 
 Everything I do these days is to change the way sports and fitness are viewed in India. After having travelled around the globe, lived abroad and played at the international level, I felt that something was missing among the fitness communities in India. There’s a lot of misconception around fitness in India. Fitness is not just about going to a gym and doing a few bench press to build your chest. That’s when I stumbled upon obstacle course race which was picking up really well in other parts of the world, but not in India. One of my best friends, Vikram Menon, is an avid obstacle racer. So, with a few of others, we decided to come up with this initiative called ‘Wild Warrior’ to bring the entire fitness community of the country together and offer them something to look forward to. So, what we put up in IIT-Madras during Saarang was a small-scale event. We wanted to get it done there, for, the place was teaming with enthusiastic youngsters, who would get what we talk about. There are bigger events in the pipeline in the coming months. 
 
 
 Well, I have been busy with all these initiatives I’ve already spoken about. Also, I work as an advisor to the government with regard to matters concerning tennis and a few other sports. I really have my hands full. 2017 was an eye-opening year for me. On one hand, I retired, but on the other hand, I had to work harder because I was up to things I was really new to. To be honest, I have no regrets about retirement. I was in the perfect stage of my life to move on. But I am still in touch with the game, I follow it and catch up with Davis Cup guys when they are here in Chennai.
 There was a lot of talk doing the rounds that you would take up the responsibility of coaching India’s Davis Cup team. What are your plans on turning a coach?
 That was a rumour regarding Davis Cup. I really didn’t have any interest being the coach of the Davis Cup team. In the future, it’s definitely something that might interest me. As of now, I have my hands full.
 
 
 One of the ways to measure the progress is to see how you’ve improved in the last 15 to 20 years. If you ask our national federation or state federation, I am not sure if they can give any positive answer. Before we talk about the players and why they’re not doing well, we really need to look around and see the condition of the sport in our country. In my view, they could be doing a lot better. Because the systems aren’t set and we are never really preparing our players for the right things. 
 
 
 Not really. My argument is that countries with much worse facilities do a lot better than us. We can talk specifically about tennis, but it’s true in the case of other sports as well. For example, if you look at athletics, see how well Kenya, Ethiopia and Nigeria are all doing. They don’t have adequate facilities or foreign coaches. But they’ve a fantastic culture of winning, hardwork and sports. In those countries, everyone is encouraged to pick up sports, which is not the case in our country. So, I think a lot of things needs to change.
 
 
 That may be solution for an individual to go get that specific training from where it is available. But that’s not the answer for a federation or the government.
 
 
 A league won’t hurt. It will definitely help. But more than that people who make decisions need to be making long-term decisions, should have goals and should know how to reach those goals. If none of these exist, then it’s not run in a very professional manner and we’re not going to get long-term results. 
 
 
 It’s fantastic! The rise of badminton actually happened after Gopi (Pullela Gopichand) really put his head together and came up with this concept of professional hard work. He kind of took it over himself. Clearly, what he’s doing is working very well — it’s different from what’s happening in other sports. Taking Gopi as an example, we see how structured hardwork, discipline, infrastructure and making the right system for the kids are proving successful. That’s what we require in other sports as well. 
 
 
 I think anybody who loves tennis would like to see Federer and Nadal. They have such an amazing on-court rivalry. They both had good seasons last year. The entire tennis world, including the experts, counted them out. But between the two of them, they won all four slams last year. 
 
