MUMBAI: While fewer   had to seek   as compared to last year,   had to be rushed to   after one suffered a   and another a stroke. Four others had to be hospitalized for severe dehydration.

 Bengaluru resident Pramod Girase had a cardiac arrest as he crossed the finish line. “His heart had stopped. We revived him... He regained consciousness and had normal vital parameters during transfer to hospital,” said Dr Vijay D’Silva, medical director and director of critical care, Asian Heart Institute.
 
 Amit Binniwale, Girase’s friend, said, “At 8.30am, he joined me beyond the finish line. He sat next to me and collapsed. He has participated in marathons before.” His family reached the city in the afternoon.
 
 It has been learnt from Dr BK Goyal, director, cardiology, Bombay Hospital, that Girase is in ICU and the next 24 hours are critical. Girase’s relative, Bhushan Rajput, said: “He’s been running for about five years and does not have any medical history.
 
 The other runner, Sukesh Kabra (44), collapsed after he collected his medal. “He was brought to the medical camp and revived. He was then sent to Bombay Hospital,” said Dr D’Silva.
 
 Dr Vibhor Pardasani from Bombay Hospital said Kabra had a stroke. “It looks unrelated to the marathon he ran,” he said.
 
 The medical camps treated 2,324 patients—most of them with complaints of dehydration, muscle cramps, sprain and exhaustion. “Four had severe dehydration. They were admitted to nearby hospitals and later discharged,” said Dr D’Silva.
 
 Asian Heart Institute had set up 11 medical stations on the route for first aid, two base camps at the start and finish. The hospital deployed 11cardiac ambulances, each with a doctor and a nurse to ply on the route.
 
 Stroke patient’s wife had to pay Rs 4k for ambulance
 Relatives of Sukesh Kabra, who suffered a stroke, had to pay Rs 4,000 to ferry him from the medical camp to Bombay Hospital, a 1.5km distance. “I was shocked when I was told to pay Rs 4,000 for the ambulance. I was not carrying a lot of cash, but his life was more important. I had no time to complain, but want to ensure nobody else goes through this,” said his wife Monali.
 
 Asian Heart Institute said they had outsourced ambulance services and were unaware that the patient’s family had to pay. “A staffer at Dr Priya’s Ambulance Service wrongly charged the patient, something unknown to Dr Priya and Asian Heart.” Dr Priya Fernandes said the company would apologize to the family and return the money. T
 
 
