BENGALURU: When   police recovered the body of a woman near the Shivagange mountain near   on February 14, 2014, they were at a dead end. 

  The woman's face had been bashed to make identification difficult and there were no material clues they could pursue. But they caught a huge break when police in Kamakshipalya, who were out  , unwittingly took the killer into their custody four days later. 
 
  Meticulous work by the police resulted in the IX additional district and session court sentencing  , 27, a resident of Basaveshwaranagar, to life in prison for murdering and  , a 38-year-old homemaker. The police secured the verdict despite the victim's family turning hostile. 
 
  Four days after the woman's body was found, Kamakshipalya police flagged down a red Honda Activa near Sunkadakatte. On being asked to produce vehicle documents, Shivaraj, the rider, fumbled with his answers. With suspicion growing, police took him to the station for questioning. 
 
  While Shivaraj was being questioned, other officers discovered that the Activa belonged to Leelavathi, a home guard and a beautician from Basaveshwaranagar. They also learnt that Leelavathi's family had filed a complaint stating that she was missing and that her mobile phone was switched off. On further interrogation, it was revealed that Shivaraj was a neighbour of Leelavathi. 
 
  Kamakshipalya police handed Shivaraj over to Dobbespet police who arrested him on charges of  . In their chargesheet, they stated that Shivaraj, who had had an illicit affair with Leelavathi, took her to Shivagange on the pretext of performing a puja and murdered her. He then fled with her phone, gold jewellery and the Activa. 
 
  "At the trial, family members of the victim, including her son and daughter turned hostile," said Ramesh Banoth, then superintendent of police. The family claimed they had doubts if Leelavathi had gone with Shivaraj. "But we were confident since we had solid circumstantial and material evidence." 
 
  HS Parameshwar, then police inspector at Dobbespet station, revealed, "We argued the case on three points: Shivaraj had Leelavathi's Activa, he had pledged her jewellery and there were blood stains on his clothes which FSL confirmed was her blood." 
 
  Quoting from the judgement, police said, "Even though independent witnesses turned hostile, circumstances corroborate each other which leads to one conclusion of the guilt of accused." 
 
 
