Stalemate on funeral of activist and former militant  , who died on Tuesday evening after jumping off a 70-foot-high water tank at Thaska Ali village in Haryana’s  , seems to have finally ended.

 The BJP legislator from Assandh, Bakhshish Singh Virk, claimed late on Friday night that the Khattar government had agreed to all demands made by   and Panthic leaders.
 
 
 The Haryana government on Friday had asked Virk to intervene and resolve the three-day standoff. The MLA along with ADGP RC Mishra and Kurukshetra DC SS Phoolia held a meeting from 5.30 pm with Panthic leader and one of the parallel jathedars Baljit Singh Daduwal, who has been asked by the Khalsa’s family to put forth their demands, in Khalsa’s village.
 
 Virk said the Haryana government had agreed to transfer Kurukshetra SP and Pehowa DSP and assured the family that the two SHOs named by them would be suspended. A magisterial probe will also be ordered into death of Bhai Khalsa, the MLA said.
 
 Daduwal admitted the Haryana government had assured relatives and supporters of Khalsa that their demands would be fulfilled.
 
 
 
 
 
 A final decision regarding Khalsa’s cremation would only be taken after concrete action is taken, said Baljit Singh Daduwal.
 
 The meeting was held after the Haryana police booked Khalsa’s relatives and supporters in a case of wrongful confinement, extortion and obstructing the government servants from performing their duty on Thursday.
 
 The case was registered at Ismailabad police station on the complaint of a cop who was on duty on the   that was blocked by Khalsa’s supporters seeking a probe into his death.
 
 Angry relatives of Khalsa have been demanding registration of abetment to commit suicide against cops as well as local administration after the former militant jumped to his death on Tuesday evening.
 
 Three cases have been registered after Khalsa jumped to his death. A case of attempt to commit suicide was registered against Khalsa when he climbed the tank for his hunger strike. The second case of murder was registered against unidentified people on the complaint of Khalsa’s son after his death. Khalsa’s son had also sought registration of case of abetment to commit suicide against cops and officials, but the police had registered a murder case instead.
 
 The third case was registered by cops against Khalsa’s son and hundreds men and women who had blocked roads on Tuesday. In the third case, the cop, identified as Dinesh Kumar complained that the accused had laid siege on the road and were demanding an illegal amount of Rs 20 lakh. “They laid the siege on the road and did not remove the barricading. They even attacked the officials who made a foiled attempt to lift the siege. These people had blocked the road from 10am in the morning till late evening. They made an illegal demand of Rs 20 lakh and action against cops,” he said in his complaint.
 
 Kurukshetra SP Abhishek Garg remained inaccessible but police spokesperson I   confirmed registration of three cases, including the third case against the villagers. “Though the cases have been registered, no investigations could start due to agitation by the villagers. Our priority is to ensure law and order situation is under control and kin perform the cremation of deceased Gurbaksh Singh Khalsa. Our officers are pursuing the family as well as the villagers,” said Mamta Singh.
 
 Khalsa’s son reiterated that the family will not cremate the body until their demands are met. “This is not our decision but of entire Sikh Sangat. The representatives are interacting with officers,’’ he said and expressed ignorance about the cases registered by the police.
 
