CHANDIGARH: There seems to be no end to the controversy between parents of some students of the   and the school management. During meetings organised between the school principal and individual parents, the latter were asked to submit a written apology and give an assurance in writing which the parents refused. According to the parents, the principal said their chidlren would not be allowed to attend classes unless they apologised. 

 The parents after meeting the principal said that they would continue to send their wards to the school until the authorities give in writing that they cannot attend classes. Parents also alleged that the principal asked them to withdraw the court cases, but the latter refuted such allegations while speaking to TOI. “We want the children to continue, but we want the parents to follow the school’s code of conduct,” said principal  .
 
 “Protesting for children’s rights cannot be termed indiscipline. We are in a legal battle, so why drag children into this? We never raised slogans but staged a silent protest,” said the parents adding, “They asked us to give a three-month notice before removing the children from the school. They messaged us 15 days before the new session. 
 
 The parents had alleged that on Wednesday, the first day of the new session, the school had removed the names of students from roll calls and did not give them the diary and the magazine. It had also sent a message to parents asking them not to send their wards and to come themselves for a meeting with the school principal. 
 
 The school authorities said they would decide on whether to allow the students after getting a reply from parents. “Parents have said they would inform us about their decision,” the principal said. However, the parents denied it. “We gave our answers then and there. We never told the principal that we would reply by the evening. We will not give anything in writing until we get anything in writing from the school. We are approaching the court against the school’s decision to punish our kids for no reason,” said  , parent and president Mount Carmel  .
 
 
