Nagpur: Ram Gadkari Foundation and Aadhar Bahuddeshiya Sanstha on Saturday organized an audio-video event titled ‘Denaryane Det Jave’ at Kavi Kulguru Kalidas Auditorium to pay tributes to renowned Marathi poet Govind Vinayak Karandikar, popularly known as ‘Vinda’. The event was presented by Arya Communication and Videos, Pune.

 The programme, which included reading and musical presentation of his poems along with audio-visuals of Karandikar reading out a few of them, was directed and anchored by Madhavi Vaidya. Karandikar was the third Marathi littérateur after VS Khandekar and VV Shirwadkar to be awarded the Jnanpith award in 2003. 
 
 Yogesh Soman, Madhuri Vaidya and Dhiresh Joshi brought Vinda’s poetry alive with their strong and expressive presentations from his famous poetic works like Svedganga, Dhrupad, Sanhita and Adimaya. Describing him as a highly creative and learned poet, Vaidya said that experimentation formed the core of his poetry. He had also translated his poems in English which were published as ‘Vinda Poems’ in 1975.
 
 Bringing out the benevolent side of the poet, the narrators said, “He received over 30 national and international awards but always gave away the prize money, including Rs1.5 lakh in cash which he received on getting the Kabir award. Once when he heard a man singing on the road outside, he called him into the house and presented his new harmonium to him,” said Vaidya.
 
 Along with Vasant Bapat and Mangesh Padgaonker, Karandikar formed a trio who gave public recitals of poetry across the state. Karandikar’s concerns for socio-economic situations in Konkan in particular and society at large were reflected in his poems. This fact was brought out by Dhiresh Joshi as he read ‘Maza mana bandhghad’ and ‘Janata amar aahey’. Another of his poetry ‘Data pasoon data kadey’ showed how Muktibodh and Kavi Anil had influenced his writings.
 
 “He played tabla very well and titled one of his poems Rupak,” Vaidya said, reciting it on the beats of the taal. Presenting some of the poems like ‘Thodi sukhi thodi kashti’ and ‘Majhis tu sangoo kiti’ as musical compositions was singer Amruta Kolatkar and Rahul Ghorpade who had also scored the music. 
 
 Dr Sushma Deshmukh, gynaecologist and writer, was felicitated at the event.
 
 
