NEW DELHI: A 24-year-old doctor pursuing a   in medicine at   was found   outside his room at a rented house in  . Police found three insulin   in the room and have detained his roommates for questioning. An inquest under section 174 CrPC has been initiated.

 S Sharath Prabhu from Tiruppur, near Coimbatore, joined the post-graduate course at University Medical College in May last year after completing his MBBS from Coimbatore medical college hospital.
 
 The incident was reported at 10am when Prabhu’s roommate Arvind, a post-graduate student from Chennai, found him lying face down near the washbasin outside their room with a syringe lying beside him. He informed their other roommate Karthikeya about the incident and took Prabhu to GTB hospital where he was declared dead on arrival.
 
 “We were informed by the hospital authorities after which an investigation was initiated. We have lifted some evidences from the room and are probing into all angles. The cause of death can be ascertained after the autopsy,” said Nupur Prasad, DCP, (Shahdara).
 
 Police recovered two more syringes from the room, beside Prabhu’s bed. Arvind and Karthikeya told the officers that Prabhu had dinner with them around 11pm, after which he went to bed after chatting a few minutes. They said that he was talking to someone on phone before going to sleep. Arvind and Karthikeya are being questioned further. 
 
 Police are also probing whether he had an argument with someone, due to which he may have committed suicide. Officers, however, said that the possibility of foul play has not been ruled out since Prabhu had an injury on his forehead and an injection mark on his right hand. Some vials were also recovered from the room.
 
 The body has been sent for postmortem at GTB hospital and would be handed over to his parents on Thursday.
 
 “My son spoke to me yesterday night around 9pm, during which he did not seem upset. He was a topper in the district. We suspect a foul play in the incident,” said Prabhu’s father Selvamani, who reached Delhi on Wednesday evening.
 
 
