LUDHIANA: In one of the biggest seizures of narcotics in  , the Special Task Force ( ), Ludhiana unit, on Sunday arrested an Amritsar-based farmer with 40kg heroin worth Rs 200 crore in the international market. The contraband was hidden in apple boxes.

 Officials said the accused, identified as  , 30, has links with Pakistan-based smugglers and he used to contact them over WhatsApp call. Gurlal had procured the heroin from the cross border smugglers.
 
 Travelling in a Swift car, Gurlal, belonging to Manjh village in  , kept the contraband in 40 packets of 1kg each hidden under apples in four cartons.
 
 Following a tip-off, sub-inspector  , in-charge, STF Ludhiana unit, set up a checkpoint at Kirti Nagar. The police party signaled him to stop the vehicle at the checkpoint when he was coming from Jamalpur side. However, the smuggler tried to escape by reversing his car. The police team gave him a chase and nabbed Gurlal.
 
 Assistant inspector general (STF)   said, “On frisking, the police team found four apple cartoons at the rear seat of his car. On asking, the accused said he was taking apple boxes for his friends. On further checking, the police found 40 packets of 1kg heroin each from boxes that were hidden under the apples.”
 
 AIG Sharma said, “This is the single largest recovery by police in city areas of Punjab. With the arrest of accused, the police would manage to crack a major chain on drug smugglers. Further the police will identify how the accused managed to smuggle heroin in huge quantity from Pakistan.”
 
 Sub-inspector Harbans Singh said the accused started smuggling of drugs three years ago. His father Dilbagh Singh is lodged in jail in a murder case for the past 23 years. His brother Palwinder Singh is also in jail for the past one-and-a half years in a case of smuggling. The police had caught him with 17kg heroin.
 
 The sub-inspector said on all 40 packets, ‘123’ was written with a black marker which could be a code. The police will crack the code after questioning the accused.
 
 
