LUCKNOW: From the new academic session,   will offer students more on-campus facilities as compared to last year.
 
 The infrastructural changes come with other ‘firsts’ as the university has introduced the semester system, student login facility and taken fee payment totally online this year.
 
 Students will no more have to sit in overcrowded classrooms as the buildings of commerce, education,   and other departments with less space have been extended. LU began its admission process on Monday for the academic session 2018-19.
 
 Besides, it would be after a gap of 13 years that the university will revive its students’ facility centre to help them with postal, bus and railway ticket booking services.
 
 The facility will especially help hostel residents who won’t have to rush to railway and bus stations to get tickets booked.
 
 Facing problems like lack of clean drinking water and good food, LU has come up with three open-air canteens and installed five water coolers on the campus.
 
 The menu of the new canteens will be on the lines of those in popular cafés. Last year, the university had shut four of six canteens on its campus. While two canteens were running illegally, the other two were shut down following a students’ clash.
 
 The only canteens now functional are the science canteen and one near the administrative building.
 
 “The university has worked on development of its infrastructure so that students need not go out of the campus. All student- related services like canteen, water, washroom, librarys, stationery and classroom are being maintained,” said LU vice-chancellor SP Singh.
 
 He added that the canteen will offer five different types of tea, snacks, and healthy and rich protein meals for sports students.
 
 Funds sanctioned by   have been utilized for the purposes.
 
 Singh said the university will also provide e-library facility and an art museum at   to students of LU and its 159 affiliated colleges from the next session.
 
 The building of the library is being extended for the purpose and work has already begun.
 
