AMRITSAR: In another incident of hate attack in the UK, Ludhiana-based Ravneet Singh, South Asia manager of a non-government organization  , was attacked and his turban was pulled at while he was waiting to meet the Sikh MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi. 

 EcoSikh president   informed TOI on Thursday, "Ravneet was attacked and the attacker not only tried to pull off his turban but also used racial slurs and profane language. He was heard saying 'Muslims go back.'"
 
 He said Ravneet, along with Jaspreet Singh, was waiting in queue to meet Dhesi, Labour MP from Westminster, at the time of the incident. He said the EcoSikh team was supposed to meet Dhesi regarding the upcoming 'World Sikh Environment Day' on March 14 to establish EcoSikh as an environmental charity in the UK.
 
 Dhesi condemned the attack and tweeted, "Disgusted to discover today that someone filled with hatred tried to pull off the turban of one of my guests standing in line outside @UKParliament. I hope the @metpoliceuk /authorities will take urgent action."
 
 Ravneet said the police had recorded his statement and it was informed that the incident was caught on a CCTV camera.
 
 EcoSikh chief Rajwant is spearheading the   (NSC) in the US to bring awareness among fellow Americans about the distinct identity of Sikhs.
 
 In an email sent to TOI, Ravneet said, "I was in the queue outside   and this guy ran up to us. Just before we got to the entrance he came up to me and attacked me. He was pulling at my turban strongly. It half moved and I grabbed it. Before he could do anything else I shouted at him and he ran."
 
 Ravneet expressed hope that such incidents do not recur in future and his attacker is brought to book. "I pray for all the racists who attack people, and I feel worried for many more innocent people who will face attacks, if racism is not stopped and ignorance not countered. This must be stopped."
 
 Both the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee ( ) president and the Akal Takht Jathedar have condemned the incident of the racial attack on a Sikh in the UK. They have asked the UK government to take strict action against the person responsible for the unpleasant incident.
 
 
