As much as he’s excited about Vikram’s get-up in  , director   says the film’s antagonist, played by  , has his own character graph. The director tells us that   has three looks in the film. 

 He says, “Bobby’s character’s called Ravanapichai; he sports three looks in the film, and each one is distinctly different from the other. We trace his character from his 20s. He spent over six months to work on the looks.” While the first two looks are ready, the third one is yet to be shot.
 
 Hari insists that Bobby is not the villain in the film, and adds, “His character is pitched opposite Vikram’s. Usually, in a cop story, there’s a baddie who is a menace to the people in the neighbourhood. But Bobby’s character has a history. He might be a bad guy for 100 people, but he respects his mother. Uyir ponalum erangi vara mattan. He is someone who would fight one-on-one and doesn’t care if the guy he’s taking on is a top cop.”
 
 We hear Bobby was Hari’s first and last choice for the antagonist in the film. “I’d seen Neram, and I loved the way he’d played Vatti Raja. He owned the character. When I scripted this film, I could think of no one else, but him to play this role. I immediately called him, and he said, ‘Naan doorathula irukken sir’. I told him, ‘It doesn’t matter, I’m already in the car to meet you.’ I met him outside a café, and told him that I have a script and that he should do the role if he liked it. I called him another day to narrate the story and he was happy to come on board,” says Hari. 
 
 All praise for the actor, the director says, “He grew a beard for three months and didn’t take on any other film so he could maintain that look. He is a dedicated artiste. If I tell him that this is his seat for the day, he would just stay there for the whole day. He’d eat there, rehearse there and rest between the shots in that same spot.”
 
 There are reports that the film takes off from where   left and deals with sons of Aarusaamy (Vikram) and Perumal Pichai (Kota Srinivas Rao). Ask Hari about it and he maintains, “I can only say that the film is set in Tirunelveli, but the story travels to Delhi and   among other places. We shot an action sequence between Vikram and Bobby in the desert sand for over 10 days and that will be a major highlight.”
 
