CHENNAI:   has been retained by   and he will feature in the first half of the   which is scheduled to start in the first half of July. According to Dindigul Dragons officials, Ashwin will play a few games before he leaves for the Test series against England starting on August 1. 

 
 “Ashwin is keen on playing a few matches for us this season and has been in constant touch with us to know the schedule of the tournament. He will play in 3-4 games for us. Ashwin has always been keen about playing whenever he has got a chance. From getting to know the players who are part of the squad to team composition — Ashwin has been a guiding force for Dindigul Dragons in the last two years,” an official from the team management told TOI.
 
 Interestingly, Ashwin — in the first season — shrugged off jet-lag and turned up to play for Dragons after his return from the United States on that very day. It was also learnt that the franchise will continue with Venkataramana as their coach for the upcoming season.
 
 Apart from Ashwin, N Jagadeesan, B Aparajith, B Indrajith, KB   and K Bharath Shankar were among the prominent state players to have been retained by franchises. However, some of the star players who have not been retained by their franchises are Dinesh Karthik, Murali Vijay and Abhinav Mukund. “It will help us to start with a clean slate. Also, with the tournament taking place in July, the availability of players too has become crucial. Players such as Dinesh Karthik and Vijay Shankar are part of the India and India ‘A’ sides respectively and will be on national duty at that time,” said one of the team owners.
 
 The players draft is likely to be held by the end of this month and the tournament is slated to commence in the first or second week of July and go on till mid of August. “We are still in the process of finalizing the tournament schedule and the dates for the players’ draft,” said a   official. The squad strength of each team should not exceed 19. At the end of the players’ draft, every franchise must fulfill the criteria of having a minimum of 2 players each from the districts and in the U-19 category. In case of a player being unavailable due to injury or selection in the national side, the franchise can seek replacement from the unpicked player pool.
 
 
  Tuti Patriots: Subramanian Anand (Uncapped), Akash Sumra (uncapped), M Ganesh Moorthi (Uncapped); Chepauk Super Gillies: S Karthik (Uncapped), R Alexander (Uncapped), U Sasidev (uncapped); Lyca Kovai Kings: R Rohith (Uncapped), Pradosh Ranjan Paul (uncapped); S Ajith Ram (uncapped); Madurai Super Giant: KB Arun Karthick (capped), Shijit Chandran (uncapped), R Karthikeyan (uncapped); Ruby Trichy Warriors: B Indrajith (capped), K Bharat Shankar (capped), K Vignesh (uncapped); VB Thiruvallur Veerans:B Aparajith (Capped), R Silambarasan (uncapped), R Sanjay Yadav (capped); Dindigul Dragons: R Ashwin (capped), N Jagadeesan (capped), R Vivek (uncapped); Karaikudi Kaalai: M Shajahan (uncapped), R Rajkumar (uncapped), S Mohan Prasath (Uncapped).
 
