MUMBAI: The well-known Sion-koliwada is nowhere near the sea now, thanks largely to reclamation of land. So part of the koliwada has been redeveloped by the BMC and another part in recent years was declared a slum and redeveloped. 

 But a number of koli families continue to stay there and resist the attempt to club them with slum dwellers. Some of these families, who consider themselves the original residents of the islands of Bombay, have old traditional homes, but fear that they may not survive the onslaught of builders. 
 
 With CM Devendra Fadnavis’ recent visit to Delhi to urge relaxation of conditions for slum redevelopment in coastal areas, alarmed residents of the koliwadas are again demanding that their villages be demarcated before any slum redevelopment takes off in the coastal areas. 
 
 “The state government is yet to demarcate the koliwadas. Without clear demarcation, our villages will easily be made part of a slum scheme,” said  , a resident of Moragaon village, Juhu, and research advisor, National Fisherfolks Forum. 
 
 There is no consensus on the number of koliwadas even among the kolis. While Mangela claimed there are 48 koliwadas, Rajhans Tapke, Machchimar Mahasangh Versova, said originally there were only 27 and their numbers may have gone up by a few. The confusion is because koliwadas are not being marked in the city’s draft Coastal Zone Management Plan nor in the draft Development Plan -2034. The revenue department is yet to complete the survey and demarcate land for the koliwadas and allied activities.
 
 “Recently, the chief minister in the assembly promised koliwadas and gaothans will have separate Development Control Regulations. He must make good his promise. We are the original sons of the soil. The government must not displace us,” said  , vice-president, Koliwada Gaothan Vistar Kruti Samiti. 
 
 Mangela said for the last two decades, there have been several attempts to bring in slum schemes on land reserved for fishing activities in Juhu. As the city grew and migrants moved in, many settled on land meant for fishing activities. These hovels began to be taken over by slum lords, and soon the lines between slums and koliwadas began to blur. Shweta Wagh, faculty,  , said ambiguity in boundaries between slums and koliwadas could result in some koliwada land being taken over for slum redevelopment.
 
