SHIMLA: Two persons have been arrested for the murder of   Singh Pal (51), a cousin of former   MLA from Doon Ram Kumar Chaudhary. The incident had happened in Baddi area of Solan district around 8pm on Sunday evening. Agitated local residents blocked the Baddi-Nalagarh highway and also protested outside the hospital. On the other hand, the Congress has questioned the deteriorating law and order situation under chief minister Jai Ram Thakur-led BJP government. 

 Chaudhary himself had hit the headlines when he was arrested in Jyoti murder case in 2012. But in September 2014, a Panchkula court had acquitted him of all charges.
 
 A land dispute is being cited as the reason for the gruesome incident. In a statement issued on Monday, the Baddi police has stated that a local cable operator, Ramesh Dhawan, first had a heated argument with Harjinder Pal Singh that led to a scuffle. At that time Ramesh was accompanied by four-five persons. The accused took out sharp-edged weapons from the vehicles in which they had come and they attacked Harjinder on head, arms and legs. When Harjinder fell down on the ground, the accused ran their vehicle over him.
 
 When the victim was taken to the community health centre at Baddi, he was declared brought dead by doctors. After registering a case of murder at Baddi police station, Ramesh Dhawan and his son Vinay Dhawan were arrested. After conducting a post-mortem examination, the body of the deceased was handed over to his family members. The police have launched a manhunt to nab the other accused involved in the crime.
 
 Expressing concern over the deteriorating law and order situation in the state under the BJP regime, former chief minister Virbhadra Singh said that it seemed that a deliberate attempt was being made to disrupt peace in the state. Recent incidents at Kasauli, Kangra (where two youths were gunned down) and Baddi had exposed the poor law and situation prevailing in the state, he said. The former CM further said that the BJP government was yet to come out of celebration mode and had failed to pay attention to improve the law and order in the state. 
 
 State Congress president Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu said that under chief minister Jai Ram Thakur-led government the law and order situation in the state had deteriorated. He said that since the BJP came to power, criminals had no fear of law. He said that it seemed to be a well-planned conspiracy to murder the cousin of the Congress leader. 
 
 
