AMRITSAR: An appeal by the SGPC to Union home minister Rajnath Singh for taking up the issue of construction of a corridor between Dera Baba Nanak in Gurdaspur district and   in Narowal district of Pakistan with the government there has given hope to those pursuing the matter for the last nearly three decades.

 Encouraged by the SGPC’s initiative, activists of   (SLK), an NGO spearheading the movement for the construction of the corridor, and residents of various villages around Dera Baba Nanak gathered close to the international border on Thursday. They offered prayers while looking towards Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib, which on Thursday had a clear view under the bright sun, some 4km away from international border across the Ravi in Pakistan.
 
 “At least, the SGPC has conveyed to Rajnath about the significance of the corridor for the Sikhs,” SLK president B S Goraya said. He said SLK activists and residents of Dera Baba Nanak and nearby places had gathered close to the international border to offer prayers for the construction of the corridor. “This is how we can peacefully raise our voice,” he said.
 
 On March 13, SGPC president   had asked the Union home minister for the construction of a corridor ahead of the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev.
 
 After completing four journeys, Guru Nanak had reached Kartarpur Sahib in 1522 and lived a simple life working in the fields for nearly 17 years before leaving for heavenly abode in 1539. Goraya stated that in 1999 the then Pakistan President,  , had offered to construct the corridor but no formal proposal was sent to the Indian government. Former President   in his capacity as the external affairs minister had visited Dera Baba Nanak in 2008 to assess the feasibility of the corridor for the convenience of pilgrims.
 
 Gurnam Singh, a local resident, said that presently, the Sikhs who were not able to travel to Pakistan for paying obeisance at Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib, reach Dera Baba Nanak and offer prayers while looking towards the shrine with folded hands from the international border. “A corridor will fulfil the religious wishes of lakhs of Sikhs,” he said.
 
 In 2010, the Punjab assembly passed a resolution, asking the Union government to take necessary measures for the construction of the corridor. Puran Singh, a resident of Batala who was on pilgrimage to Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib in recent past, said that Sikhs in Pakistan were also keen to have the corridor so they could simply walk to Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib, pay obeisance at the Golden Temple and return the same day.
 
 
