BENGALURU: Infosys CEO Salil Parekh is moving a human resources veteran to the US at a time when the company is on a major localisation drive.

 
 Srikantan Moorthy, the company's executive vice-president and head of application services, will now be the head of talent acquisition for the US. Moorthy was previously the group head of human resources and prior to that, the head of education and research, where his primary responsibility was talent development through competency building. Infosys had announced a plan last year to hire 10,000 people in the US in the following 18-24 months. 
 
 Satish HC is likely to oversee Moorthy's application services portfolio in addition to his existing role of executive vice-president of data and analytics. Sources said that Anurag Vardhan Sinha, industry head and senior VP of communication, media and entertainment (CME) for the   might be named the service offering head for engineering services. As a service offering head, he would be responsible for driving solutions, cost efficiency, automation and offshoring.
 
 Sudip Singh, who heads engineering services, was recently given the additional responsibility of energy & utilities, the portfolio that was with Rajesh Krishnamurthy, who quit the company earlier this year. When TOI asked Infosys about these changes, the company said it doesn’t comment on internal organisational changes other than those of key management persons.
 
 Moorthy moves to the US at a time when Infosys is trying to hire more locals in that country and establish development hubs closer to its clients. It has set up four technology and innovation hubs in the US. The first came up in Indianapolis, Indiana. This was followed by one in Raleigh in  , and a design and innovation hub in   in Rhode Island. The company opened its newest tech and innovation hub in Hartford, Connecticut, with plans to hire 1,000 American workers there by 2022. 
 
 Infosys COO Pravin Rao recently said in an investor call that the company hired 700 engineers in the US in the past year. The company wants to replicate the US localisation model in Europe. For some job roles, it is making it clear that it intends to hire only locals and will not sponsor visas. In North Carolina, Infosys has 84 open positions and the job description for a project manager for financial services reads: “US citizens and those authorized to work in the US are encouraged to apply. We are unable to sponsor at this time.”
 
 Infosys has about 20,000 employees in the Americas, spread across the US, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, and Costa Rica.
 
