CHANDIGARH: A Chandigarh district court arrested two persons from Delhi in a case related to duping a city-based businessman of Rs 10 crore by investing in the name of investing in cryptocurrency. The two accused were produced in Chandigarh district court from where they were send to three days of police custody on Friday. However, the police requested for 12 days of police custody .The two arrested are identified as Sanchit, resident of Delhi and   alias alias Raju, native of  , who was said to be living in Delhi .

 Both were arrested from Delhi and the police said that they both had direct links with main accused. They were involved in transferring funds from various fake accounts to the company of main accused,  . They both developed code language and also transferred more than Rs 30 lakh to various accounts of Amit.
 
 Police wanted to interrogate them as there are many accused who are yet to be arrested.
 
 Cyber cell of UT police has registered first FIR in connection with duping city-based businessmen of Rs 10 crore by investing in cryptocurrency. Police have booked Amit Bhardwaj and others, who have already been arrested by the Delhi Police and lodged in Pune jail. Acting on the complaint of ex-Army man, cyber cell police have booked Amit Bhardwaj, owner of Gain   and other nine persons for duping him around 1.5 crores by luring him handsome return on investing in Bitcoin. Amit and his brother Vivek had duped around 8,000 persons at the tune of Rs. 2000 crore across India. Earlier, both were arrested by the police from   last year. Both had been lodged in Pune jail since their arrest. As per the police, complainant said that he had met Amit Bhardwaj thorough a Sector 49 resident at Dubai in 2016 and he lured him by offering a high profit if he would buy and invest in bitcoins.
 
 Complainant told that when he heard the news that the Pune police has arrested Amit Bhardwaj and others for duping thousands of people, he checked his online account but his account was not showing any single bitcoin in his account. He registered a complaint with the cyber cell police and after investigating the complaint, cyber cell police registered a FIR against Amit and other eight persons in the case. Now, police said that they would bring Amit Bhardwaj on production warrant from Pune for further interrogation. Police said around 12 persons from tricity have approached to them and gave complaint against the them in this regards so far.
 
 
