PATIALA: Against doctors’ advice, the   district child welfare committee (DCWC) has sent the 13-year-old   to her native place in West Bengal. Doctors had the 24 weeks pregnant minor under observation due to excessively low haemoglobin levels. 

 The girl was admitted to the Ambala civil hospital on March 22 after she was rescued by the members of the district child protection office (DCPO) and district child welfare committee (DCWC) from the house of her mother’s sister. Her uncle there had been raping her for months. 
 
 The doctors at civil hospital said the girl was being treated for anemia and low haemoglobin level. “We did not discharge the patient. Rather she was taken away by the CWC members after they had gave us in writing about shifting her. The rape survivor was in trauma after she learnt about her pregnancy,” said Dr  , chief medical officer (CMO) at Ambala civil hospital.
 
 “She had pleaded for abortion but we did not have any legal permission from the court as she was already 24 weeks pregnant. She had started recovering in our hospital. We hoped to bring her haemoglobin levels further up in next two days but she was taken away on Tuesday,” he added.
 
 Ambala DCWC member   claimed that the girl was shifted to her native state as her mother was recently traced by WB police. “She was in good health and improved a lot following which she was handed over to the CWC members in the West Bengal who will further look into the case,” she said.
 
 After rescuing her, the DCWC had asked doctors to explore the feasibility of aborting the foetus. However, the doctors found that she was 24 weeks pregnant and not 22 weeks as was reported earlier. They declined to medically terminate the pregnancy as they could not do it without court’s permission as dictated by the Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) Act.
 
 Earlier, it was expected that DCWC would file a petition in the court for due permission for abortion on behalf of the rape survivor as they failed to trace her permanent guardians. Meanwhile, efforts were being made to contact her immediate family in West Bengal. After, her mother was finally contacted, the DCWC decided to send the minor to her family. 
 
 When asked why the panel decided to shift her against doctors’ advice, Ambala deputy commissioner Sharandeep Kaur Brar said that DCWC members had powers vested with them to take decision for the betterment of a minor rape survivor.
 
 District child protection officer of Vardhman district in West Bengal, Sudeshna, said, “The girl was brought to us by train and was accompanied by the members of the district child protection unit and police. The rape survivor was taken to a local hospital here where doctors thoroughly checked and gave her some medicine. At present, the girl is staying at   in Vardhman district.”
 
 “If the need arises, she would be moved to the hospital. Her mother lives in a remote village of the district and she will able to meet us on Monday, following which we will take a final decision about abortion,” she added.
 
 
