Gurgaon: Police on Thursday said it is taking the recent cases of crimes against women very seriously, and has ramped up night patrolling in the city. Cops on the ground have also been instructed to be more careful in preventing such crimes, and to be more sensitive while investigating them.

 A police spokesperson said the roster of duties for night patrolling now includes DCPs and ACPs who have been allocated certain days of the week to monitor the patrolling. Seven officers who have been allotted these duties are DCP (east) Kuldeep Singh, ACP (traffic, east) Pankhuri, DCP (headquarter) Deepak Gahlawat, DCP (west) Sumit Kuhar, DCP (south) Ashok Bakshi and ACP (Civil Lines) Mahinder Singh. In addition, 12 ACPs and an inspector have been allotted night patrolling duties in various areas, along with area SHOs and police station staff.
 
 Commissioner Sandeep Khirwar will himself make random rounds at night to keep an eye on the night patrols. “If people want to report a case and are unable to reach the police control room (100), they can also reach out to the officer in charge on that particular day, or officers in charge of their area,” said the spokesperson. The force has also circulated the roster via its Facebook and Twitter handles.
 
 Police added they are also restarting Operation Durga, the state-wide campaign to curb crime against women. In a meeting of ACPs, DCPs and SHOs chaired by the police commissioner, instructions were laid out to up the ante against such crime. “We’ve instructed cops to assist women in distress, and to take swift action in such cases. No laxity will be tolerated. We’ll also make use of the women’s force of the rapid action force,” said a police spokesperson, citing proceedings of the meeting. The relaunched Operation Durga will target sexual harassers on the streets, while being sensitive to affected women, police said.
 
 Complaints about crime against women, received at police stations and posts, will also be shared on the women’s helpline (1091), the spokesperson said.
 
 To improve night patrolling, cops are being asked to keep a watch for suspicious people, especially in areas known for prostitution, and to book them for immoral trafficking. “We’re also renewing verification of maids and people living in guest houses and hotels. Women PCRs will be deployed near schools and colleges with women students,” police said.
 
 For the protection of cops deployed on patrol duty, PCRs will be covered with reflective tape, and cops will be asked to wear reflective jackets and cross belts. 
 
 Shut down of alcohol shops after midnight will be strictly enforced, and challans will be issued to anyone found drinking in public, they said. “In the coming days, we’ll follow a zero-tolerance policy,” said Gurgaon police PRO Ravinder Kumar.
 
 According to sources, the Haryana DGP, B S Sandhu, has issued instructions to ramp up security and patrolling in the light of several recent incidents of rape in Gurgaon and nearby areas.
 
 
