WITH PIC

 Nagpur: Flashing of Naxalite banners near   Wildlife Sanctuary daring tourists to visit the park perhaps considering year-end revelry has put wildlife and police department officials on high alert.
 
 Two banners tied to a display board of a resort were found on Sakoli-Pitezari Road, 3km from Pitezari gate on Sunday morning. One banner mentioned ‘Nagzira Bandh. Lal Salam’ and another challenging tourists ‘Dum Hai To Nagzira Aaye. Lal Salam’ (If you have guts then come to Nagzira). The banners have been seized by Bhandara police.
 
 The banners seem to have been tactically put up ahead of New Year celebration when most tourists visit the park. Over 153 sqkm Nagzira, 125km from here in Gondia-Bhandara districts, is now part of Navegaon-Nagzira Tiger Reserve (NNTR) and has been witnessing frequent visitors owing to regular tiger sightings.
 
 Talking to TOI, Bhandara SP Vinita Sahu confirmed the development and said it might be a hoax and mischief by some local elements to deter tourists from visiting the park. “Yet, we are not leaving any stone unturned and tight vigil is being maintained by our staff,” she said.
 
 The senior police official feared it to be a handiwork of some local Naxalite sympathizers to get their demands fulfilled. “We are also coordinating with the forest officials and have launched an operation,” Sahu said without going into the details of it.
 
 NNTR officials told TOI that the jungle safari was business as usual. “On Sunday, 34 vehicles entered the park from 5 gates in the morning and 35 in the evening. It included 348 tourists from the region, 18 students and 8 foreigners. Tourism will remain open on January 1. Protection is being given to all tourists,” said NNTR’s deputy director (core) Amlendu Pathak.
 
 “We strongly feel it is pure mischief. The banners can’t even be attributed to   as nothing is written about them. Yet, when we were informed by police we are taking all precautions for safety of tourists, especially foreign tourists,” he said.
 
 According to veteran officials, a Naxalite Dalam was active in Nagzira in the 80s & 90s. However, police crushed its activities. TOI talked to a section of former officials posted in Nagzira who say Naxalites can never set up their base in Nagzira.
 
 However, there have been sporadic incidents of alleged Naxalites setting up forest protection camps afire in the past. In January & February 2010, a protection camp at Tippat and another at Mangezari inside the park was set afire by alleged extremists.
 
 In 2012, Naxalites had also opposed expansion of Navegaon National Park by carving out Navegaon Wildlife Sanctuary. The proposed area had their random presence as forests connected Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Jharkhand further.
 
 Later in March 2014, seven armed people dressed like outlaws set afire a forest camp in Pangdi in core area of Nagzira and had also thrashed a van major Madaram Shyamkumar. Former officials posted at Nagzira say Naxalites can never make tourist-friendly Nagzira as their permanent base.
 
 Former divisional forest officer (DFO) Ajay Pillariseth said, “At one time, Navegaon was Naxalites’ area of operation but after relocation of all villages they won’t come now. In Nagzira as there are no villages they won’t come.” 
 
 Ex-DFO Ashok Khune feels these are fake Naxalites. There are no tendu interests in Nagzira that can tempt extremists. These may be locals, spreading fear among the tourists.
 
 
