Chennai: “Make Tea not War” “I Am What I Am”, many such catchy oneliners are found often on T-shirts worn these days.  More often than not, millennials these days wear a t-shirt that reflects pop culture or self-expression. T-shirts, which were initially considered casual wear, are now becoming a style statement. Be it a reflection of their belief or a line from their favourite sitcom, merchandise startups such as the Souled Store, Campus Sutra and Fully Filmy, are seeing about 60% of their total sales coming from their T-shirts segment. “The most popular form of expression is relating to the profession. T-shirts that saw ‘Lawsome’ or ‘doctor-to-be’ are the ones that find many takers. Besides selling online, we have set up a store near MS Ramaiah medical college in Bengaluru to attract youngsters,” said Aditya Agarwal, co-founder, Campus Sutra. He adds that college students are the target customers and over 65-70% of the youngsters’ t-shirt segment is occupied by message t-shirts. However, 60% of the sale is seasonal, industry players add. The release of a film or the launch of a sporting event accounts for a 20% spurt in the number of orders for these e-commerce players. Campus Sutra, which entered into a partnership with Kolkata Knight Riders, now sees sales picking up for KKR t-shirts, with the team being qualified to enter the playoffs. To cater to a segment with limited disposable income, which includes students or entry-level professionals, these companies are keeping the pricing affordable. The T-shirts start at as low as Rs 500 per piece.  “The age group of buyers is between 18-24 years or sometimes higher. We operate in the price segment of Rs 499 per T-shirt. People want quality, affordable t-shirts, as opposed to the fake ones doing rounds in the market,” said Vedang Patel, co-founder, Souled Store.  The bootstrapped startup sees a 100% y-o-y growth and has t-shirts citing cultural references see takers all year round, besides the seasonal sale. “Sitcoms which have a fan following in India such as Friends and Game of Thrones have consistent movement in the metros,” adds Patel, who sees 90% of the total sale happen from their own website. Organised retail stores such as Splash also sees 30-35% of their T-shirt sales from those making statements on pop culture or their favourite team or superhero. “We have entered into a licensing agreement with Disney to have t-shirts of Marvel fans. It reflects the style and belief of the consumer,” adds Abhinav Zutshi, chief operating officer, Splash. Analysts point out that while the evolution of t-shirts representing cartoons during childhood to conveying a point for adults is seen, players need to move to retail stores to scale up further. “Statement tees are definitely a trend. However, purchasing t-shirts is usually out of impulse, and I see the trend grow further. Only those who are used to purchasing online will take to the e-commerce websites and to achieve greater sales, players have to diversify to offline channels,” said Arvind Singhal, co-founder, Technopak Advisors.