BENGALURU: The   is designed to restrain political parties from resorting to unhealthy practices. But the common citizen is paying the price for what they call overzealousness of election authorites citing the code.

 
 Complaints abound about the enforcement of the code hindering not only private events but also public events. Static and mobile teams have been accused of affecting traffic movement by haphazardly erecting checkposts. People are being asked to explain why they are carrying huge amounts of cash and even arrested if they fail to produce relevant documents.
 
 On Sunday, civil society activists who wanted to protest against the  , near Maramma Circle, Malleswaram, were denied permission, citing objections from the Election Commission. Finally, the organisers, Family and Friends of Indian Institute of Science, shifted the protest inside the IISc campus. Protesters wondered what the   had to do with an apolitical event like a candlelight vigil.
 
 "We understand we must not display political placards or party flags. We don't understand why we're not allowed to organise an event which has nothing to with politics or elections," Deepti Shastry, a protester, said.
 
 On Saturday, 17 Goabound tourists, including 11 foreigners, had a harrowing experience after their three cars were stopped near Hubballi by a mobile squad. The team was held up as the tour organiser was carrying Rs 97,000 in cash. No explanation helped and one team member was arrested. The team resumed its journey after obtaining bail for the accused.
 
 A 50-year-old agriculturist from Dakshina Kannada district, Steven Monterio, eager to celebrate the betrothal of his niece, landed behind bars on Saturday. He had stocked up several litres of beer, whisky and other alcoholic beverages to serve guests at the engagement and was accused of not having the required excise licence.
 
 Raghu M R, a bill collector with a cargo company, said: "Every time I carry a bag while riding, I'm stopped by police and have to explain why I'm carrying so much cash. At   checkposts, I have to produce documents that the money I'm carrying does not belong to any political party."
 
 Late Monday afternoon, there was a huge traffic jam on Dickenson Road as election officers began an impromptu search of cars.
 
 The Election Commission has clarified that there is no restriction on private events like weddings, naming ceremonies and organisers of such functions need not take permission. "The Election Commission is being flooded with applications seeking permission for weddings and betrothals which is not required," said chief electoral officer Sanjiv Kumar.
 
 There is a 2.3-litre cap on individuals carrying or stocking liquor. "However, there're no limit on consumption at pubs and bars," said Rajendra Prasad, joint excise commissioner.
 
 "If any election official tries to stop a private event on the pretext of the poll code, it amounts to infringement of individual rights. We'll take action against such officials if people complain to us," said K G Jagadeesh, additional chief electoral officer incharge of implementation of model code of conduct.
 
