INDORE: Early   and intervention and going to the right doctor are extremely important in case of   and lupus, said Paras Hospitals, Delhi, senior consultant rheumatologist Dr Indrajit Agrawal.

 He was speaking to patients at an   organised by a local hospital on Sunday. Over 200 patients with several queries attended the programme.
 
 Busting the biggest myth of patients about spondylitis  , Dr Agrawal said, “Majority of the time, when there is an early intervention, regular physiotherapy works. If you don’t consult a qualified rheumatologist the outcome might be different.”
 
 Agrawal, who has an experience of over three decades under his belt added, if the regular exercise is followed on time and the disease is diagnosed on the early stage, the battle becomes half and one can lead a normal life.
 
 Other queries that were asked by the patients included, whether ankylosing spondylitis is a rare condition and only affect patients’ back or it always results in a fused spine. Patients’ also wanted to know if by changing eating habits they can have a normal life. Also, an orthologist can treat a patient of arthritis, he said.
 
 Pointing towards these myths, rheumatologist of Fortis Hospital, Delhi, Dr Bimlesh Dhar Pandey said, “Ankylosing spondylitis is a systemic disease and is not limited to the joints alone. People with the condition also may have fever, fatigue, and loss of appetite. In rare cases, it also affects the lungs and the heart.”
 
 Speaking about lupus, Pandey who has an experience of more than a decade added, it is extremely important for patients to know that if lupus is not treated in time, it can be dangerous. The factors and reasons may differ in each patient so they shouldn’t depend only on google and should consult a qualified rheumatologist for the same, he added.
 
 Both the doctors said that the patients should adopt a healthy lifestyle, avoid alcohol, smoking and stress, prevent direct sunlight and stop depending only on google for remedies.
 
 Senior consultant and head of department of rheumatology and immunology of a city-based hospital, Dr Sourabh Malviya said, biological therapy is a good option for the treatment for this disease.
 
 
