PUNE: Nearly 1,000   listed by Pune Metropolitan Regional Development Authority ( ) will soon be pulled down.

 Sarang Awad, the newly-appointed the controller of   constructions in PMRDA’s jurisdiction, said he will rope in police personnel from Pune city and rural and the appointed private agency for the task. The structures are largely spread out in the Haveli and Mulshi talukas. 
 
 
  
  
 
 Awad, who is has been deputed to PMRDA for three years, will oversee prevention, identification and demolition of illegal structures on PMRDA lands and in reserved zones. PMRDA had long demanded a separate officer to monitor illegal construction activities in its jurisdiction, spread over 7,000 sq km. 
 
 PMRDA chief Kiran Gitte said a detailed action plan has been readied by the cell. PMRDA had earlier appointed an agency for this purpose. The contractor will be paid Rs570 per sq mt and the amount will be reclaimed from the illegal buildings’ owners. 
 
 “Plans are afoot to check illegal construction, mainly along the   bypass and ring road, for which a survey is being carried out,” said Awad, who had earlier served as Pune’s deputy commissioner of police (traffic). “Three days ago, we demolished three structures at Marunj in Hinjewadi. Slowly, with additional manpower, we will ensure that all the listed illegal structures are demolished,” Awad added. 
 
 Two teams of engineers are carrying out surveys on a daily basis, and every day, 5-10 structures get the “illegal” tag. 
 
 The PMRDA had earlier prepared a list of 1,658 illegal structures, of which more than 600 fell into Pune Municipal Corporation limits. PMRDA has sought a dedicated 15-member team from the city and rural police departments to provide cover for the demolition drive. “The cell will first pull down unoccupied structures, followed by under-construction buildings. It will turn its crosshairs onto occupied structures after evacuating the buildings,” Awad said.
 
 The survey involves checking for building permissions and other clearances. The additional later files an FIR against the owner of the structure deemed illegal, after which the cell makers arrangements to demolish it. As things stand, illegal constructions built till December 2015 can be regularized by paying penalty and compounding charges and PMRDA has invited applications.
 
 
