Ludhiana: In 2018 Budget, Union finance minister   had announced a relaxation in the tax slab and exemption from any taxation for interest of upto Rs 50,000 earned on fixed deposits. Jaitley had also announced that TDS will not be deducted on fixed deposit schemes. The announcement had received mixed response from the senior citizens in the city as some welcomed the step. However, there are some of them who demanded that there should not have been a tax slab for the senior citizens because they are not salaried employees.

 As per the Budget announcements, the exemption of interest income on deposits with banks and post offices will be increased from the current Rs 10,000 to Rs 50,000. Similarly, TDS will not be deducted on such income u/s 194A.
 
 Senior citizen   Walia said it did come as a relief to a certain extent that senior citizens will not have to pay any tax up to Rs 3 lakh income. He also said that he is relieved that for bank deposits, too, there will be no TDS deduction. “But this budget did not give me enough satisfaction,” he said. He further added, “Senior citizens are retired persons and are dependent either on their pension or their children for survival. So, the government should not keep any tax slab for them.” He demanded that they should be exempted from the income tax.
 
 Meanwhile, a dentist who has just joined the senior citizen club, Dr   said, “It is a balanced budget and government did not take any impetuous decision keeping in view the elections next year.” He said even for senior citizens, it was a relief in terms of tax rebate and no imposition of TDS on the deposit. He said it will encourage the senior citizens to deposit more money in the banks.
 
 Another senior citizen   said the budget was “balanced” and an announcement of deduction of tax limit on health insurance premium and medical expenditure incurred by senior citizens has been increased to Rs 50,000 and in case of critical illness, it has been increased to Rs 80,000 for very senior citizens. He said that senior citizens spend much of their deposits in the health sector, so it will provide a great relief for them.
 
 This was the last full budget of the BJP-led NDA government before the 2019   polls.
 
 
