THANE: India’s first woman private detective   was arrested on Friday for allegedly procuring call detail records ( ) illegally for her clients. TOI was the first to report on Thursday that police had busted a gang of detectives and arrested four of them for illegally sourcing and selling CDRs. 

 Pandit (54), the daughter of a former police officer, was picked up from her Dadar home after an arrested detective,  , told police he had sourced CDRs on her instructions and delivered it to her for a hefty price. A police officer said there was strong evidence to show that Pandit had demanded and bought CDRs of at least five people. Apart from her, two others were arrested on Friday.
 
 Thane police chief Param Bir Singh said, “Pandit’s role has been clearly established. Those involved in the scam will not be spared.” 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Apart from Pandit, police on Friday arrested two other detectives—Santosh Pandgale (34) and   (34)—from Navi Mumbai, taking the number of arrests to six. Four detectives—Makesh Pandian, Prashant Palekar (49), Jigar Makwana (35) and Samresh Jha (32) aka Pratik Mohpal—were arrested on Thursday.
 
 “During questioning, it came to light that Pandit had procured five CDRs from Jha. Her statement has been recorded and we are questioning her for any leads in the racket which seems to be much bigger,” DCP (crime) Abhishek Trimukhe said. Police officials said more arrests were likely in the coming days as they had found that most detectives brazenly promise CDRs to their clients for a premium. They added that the arrests may just be the tip of the iceberg. “The probe is in the right direction and forensic analysis of the material seized from the accused may expose the dark trade,” an officer said.
 
 Police have also zeroed in on a Delhi man who was reportedly providing CDRs to the accused. “A team will soon be dispatched to Delhi to nab him as he seems to be a key member of the racket,” said senior inspector Nitin Thakre. 
 
 Meanwhile, police have started technical analysis of the CDRs seized. A senior officer said they will soon summon the 177 people whose CDRs have been found in possession of the accused to make a watertight case.
 
 
