MUMBAI: About 70km from Mumbai, one of the metropolitan region’s largest contiguous   parcels has been marked as a “growth centre” in the new MMR draft plan (2016-2036). The area, in Vasai, is seven times the size of the Mahalaxmi racecourse and mainly comprises wetlands where   visit. Crucially, the 1,560-acre land demarcated for development by the MMRDA is a rainwater sink, which prevents monsoon flooding in the Vasai-Virar region, say environmentalists.

 Vasai’s residents and activists have raised the red flag over the growth centre proposal, which local MLA Kshitij Thakur describes as a project much larger than Bandra-Kurla Complex. The proposal is contained in the draft plan, published by MMRDA in September.
 
 The land was earlier designated as a salt pan. In 1989, the state government leased it to the firm Gogate Salt Chemicals for 25 years for salt production. When the lease expired in 2014, the government took the land back and the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) reversed the reservation of the no-development zone.
 
 “The government has the right to change land use since it’s in the people’s interest,” said Thakur, a two-time MLA from the Bahujan Vikas Aaghadi. A 13-minute video shows him hard-selling his “vision for development of Vasai taluka”.
 
  with residential townships, a healthcare ‘city’, education centres, a sports complex, entertainment hubs and employment-generating industries on land till recently designated as salt pan. Thakur says his development proposal is awaiting the state government’s approval.
 
 Global property consultancy firm Knight Frank has prepared a vision document, laying out the potential to exploit the land parcel for a “mega-commerce centre”. Former MMRDA chief town planner Vidyadhar Phatak, who was on the panel to hear citizens’ objections and suggestions on the MMR plan, said Vasai-Virar’s local development plan can override the MMR plan. “If the local corporation desires, it can put the 1,560-acre land to some other use. We have always maintained that the local plan will be given preference over the MMR plan,” he told TOI.
 
 Uma Adusumilli, who heads the MMRDA’s planning division, said the MMR plan has been sent to the Metropolitan Planning Committee headed by chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. She refused to comment on the proposed Vasai growth centre.
 
 Former zilla parishad member and activist Samir Vartak said, “In Vasai-Virar, developers have become politicians and elected representatives. So, who do we complain to? Two decades ago, when Cidco had jurisdiction over this area, its development plan had earmarked this land as a plantation zone.”
 
 Vartak said 63,000   have objected to the new MMR plan.
 
 Father Eric Alphonso of Vasai’s ancient Holy Ghost Church said villagers still do not have basic civic amenities, like water connections. “First create infrastructure for locals, instead of dumping industries here,” he said. “The question is who is planning for whom? The government cannot take people for granted.”
 
 Father Francis D'Britto, who formed an environment protection committee to counter the MMR draft plan, described it as “builder-driven” to destroy Vasai’s green zone. “Most green belts have been proposed as development zones. We have been fighting against reckless development for three decades.”
 
 
