KOCHI:   department here seized around 500 grams of a drug suspected to be a combination of Amphetamine and Cocaine from a courier addressed to a Kochi resident from Hong Kong on Tuesday. The drug has a market value of at least Rs 1 crore, sleuths said.

 "A test kit supplied by   ( ) was used to confirm that the seized substance is a narcotic drug. The substance is valued at Rs 2 crore per kilogram. We have sent the seized substance to a laboratory for chemical analysis to determine the exact combination of the drug," said  , customs commissioner. 
 
 The parcel which was labelled as glass artefact had as much as 120 vials stashed inside bubble wraps. According to senior customs officers, the youth to which the parcel was addressed to claims that the order is for consumption in connection with body building.
 
 "Upon preliminary investigation we have found that the capsules contain amphetamine. But as the youth is claiming that the tablets are for usage related to body building, the seized goods would undergo chemical analysis. Even if the claim is true, smuggling in narcotic substance illegally is a punishable offence. No arrests have been recorded yet," said a senior customs official. He added that it is highly unlikely that a person would order such a huge quantity of drugs for consumption. 
 
 The packet was seized by the customs unit attached to the postal appraisal department to check international mails and packages.
 
 According to sources, the youth has been identified but is yet to be arrested. "The phone number on the courier was an   number. The youth was identified after searching the address," said sleuths.
 
 Officials said they will increase the scrutiny of such packages in the future.
 
 "International consignments normally go through scanners at a checking point. Contents inside these packets are mostly determined based on a risk analysis test after an x-ray screening," said an official.
 
 The regulations for shipment of packages are not being strictly followed in many places, said sleuths. "Lack of monitoring equipment like scanners and high dependence on random checking are the reasons for smuggling through postal route unnoticed. An additional scanner is set to be installed at the postal checking centre soon," said an official.
 
 "Recently, Euro currency worth Rs 5 lakh was seized from couriers. Minor currencies smuggling had also been foiled by our officers recently," said commissioner Sumit Kumar.
 
  In 2016, the customs sleuths here arrested a Nigerian national for attempting to smuggle out drugs worth eight crore rupees to foreign countries through a courier service agency in Kochi. 
 
 Officials had seized 4,000 grams of heroine valued at Rs seven crore and 300 grams of Methamphetamine valued at Rs one crore upon scrutiny of courier parcels.
 
 
