CHANDIGARH: The   wants more clusters like Chandigarh Region Innovation Knowledge Cluster (CRIKC) across the country.   (PU) vice-chancellor (VC) Prof   said it was a matter of great pride for PU that an initiative taken by them will be implemented across the country for innovations. 

 "Around 10 days ago we received a letter from the Government of India asking us to expand this cluster for the North-west region of India and they also expressed their demand to have similar clusters across the entire country. They desire to have 10 similar clusters all over the country. I think the students and faculty of this university can take pride that an initiative which started from the PU campus has been accepted and will soon be adopted by the nation," said PU VC Prof Arun Kumar Grover. He made the announcement while adressing a gathering at the 2nd Urmi Kessar Memorial Oration held in the university on Tuesday.
 
 The university last week convened the inaugural meeting regarding 'linking of universities with national research laboratories (northern region)', where it was decided that the universities need to be linked closely with national research laboratories for improving the education and research facilities of universities, sharing of resources of national research institutions and preparing quality manpower as per the needs of Indian industry.
 
 Moreover, it was decided that the department of science and technology centre for policy research, Chandigarh will be the nodal centre for the activities of the forum. The principal scientific advisor (PSA) to Goernment of India had asked PU VC to convene a meeting since the latter is the chairman of the forum comprising of Panjab University, Punjabi University, Kurukshetra University and Guru Jambheshwar University of Science & Technology and six national research labs IMTECH, CSIO, NABI, CIAB, INST and SCL. 
 
 It was also decided that each member institute would nominate one senior scientist or professor for managing the activities of the forum and scientists from the national laboratories should be encouraged to work as adjunct faculty in the universities. Moreover, it was decided that every member institute should set aside a dedicated fund for performing the activities of the forum. The amount of the fund could be based on the size of the institute as well as the financial deficit being faced by the institute. 
 
 
