Breaking the Tamil independent music scene is  , the first single launched under Gautham Menon’s label, an initiative to produce independent music in regional languages. This peppy number, rendered by  , composed by   with lyrics by  , has been creating a buzz, what with Gautham giving us some great visuals, too. In a ‘urayaadal’ with us, Gautham, singer-composer Karthik, lyricist  , and producers Venkat Somasundaram and Reshma Ghatala, chat about Koova, backing independent music in the south and so on…

 
 
 
 : We spoke about the idea of doing something like this four-five years ago, but we were unsure how we would do this. We, as producers, wanted to put out our stuff; even Karky wanted to something on similar lines. Karthik and I have been collaborating on various ideas and projects. So, somewhere, all of us have been talking about bringing out a song and putting it out on the right platform. In fact, a few years ago, we worked on something... a tune that I had in mind. Reshma picked it up and got Karky to write the lyrics, which I wasn’t aware of. Karthik did the music and we put it up on Karky’s platform later. But, this time, we connected after a long time. Karthik and I worked on about 8-10 songs, got Karky in and gave him different situations to write the lyrics. Then, when I took it back to Reshma and Venkat, they eventually agreed to put it out. 
 
 : Speaking of how this started, we had shot a promo for the same concept in 2013. It was just great music, which we wanted people to hear. Back then, we weren’t sure of how it would reach the listeners. It is a boon that our channel has now got a lot of subscribers and that there is an audience that we could reach out to and access.
 
 : Having said that, it is still non-film music. If the same song had any actor featuring in it, the reach is more. But we didn’t think on those lines and went ahead to shoot the video. We spent as much as we would have spent for a song. In fact, I don’t want to call them ‘videos’, they are like short films. We are shooting another one, too. We are just very excited... I just don’t want to be more excited than the feature films I am working on (laughs). 
 
 : There is a lot more creative liberty when you are doing independent music. For starters, we don’t have anyone’s date issues (smiles). 
 
 
  When you work on a song, there should be a starting point, right? So, Gautham came up with such small stories and one story was this. It delves into the frustration of a man. He wants to dance and let his feelings out by playing a song that speaks his mind. I wrote these lines in folk style and gave it to Karthik. He set the whole tune in a certain mood, eventually creating this beautiful number.
 
 
 
  I like to give names for my songs... it is like naming your baby. It gives an identity for my songs; it needn’t be a word, it could even be a concept. I try to use words that we haven’t heard enough to make it more popular. ‘Koova’ is one such word... it was there in our ancient Tamil literature and this is used mostly in Tirunelveli dialect, which is why I have the song written in that style.
 
 : I never expected this dialect would be used for the song. After writing the lyrics, Karthik came with the genre. Three thoughts came together and we created this one. Later, Karthik suggested Chinna Ponnu for the song, who gave it a quirky twist.
 
 
 That is the freedom that I enjoyed. Someone’s frustration is not pleasant to listen to. Here’s this guy, who is frustrated, and contemplating about so many things. It could have turned out to be a not-so-interesting concept. But Gautham said it would be a dance song, and this lent a lot of energy to the track. To make it quirkier, we took the liberty of him playing the song on a speaker from his phone. So, this one could be anyone.
 
  If we were doing a song for a film, we would have to think if the singer’s voice would suit the hero/heroine. But here, there was no such pressure.
 
  We have the space to go all out and make a song. Everything was done in a matter of few minutes. We wanted a rustic, folksy voice, and Chinna Ponnu was apt. She simply came and rocked it. She learnt the song in 10 minutes and recorded it that quickly.
 
  The way she was rendering made me feature her in the video. She always has this charming smile, irrespective of what the genre of the song is. We gave her something similar to what   wears in Chicago. She was sweet enough to go through this makeover. Her husband, in fact, was shy to see her in this look!
 
 
 We are looking at this as a long-term project. We are not going to stop with Tamil, and are looking into doing something similar in Telugu, Malayalam and Kannada. The idea is to do a song every month. The ambitious plan is to do 24 songs this year; if not, at least 15 songs. This will also be used as a platform to promote new talent. We are planning to launch a campaign where people can upload their videos or songs, and Gautham, Karthik and Karky would select them.
 
  Rather than restricting ourselves by just looking for the next singer, musician, we are looking for the next unit. We want the next bunch of people to come together as a unit, who can put together the song, lyrics and the video. Of course, Gautham and Karthik would mentor them.
 
 
  Frankly, independent music in the south hasn’t picked up at all. And in the north, it is going through a revival of sorts. Once this came out, so many people wrote to us congratulating and wanting us to help put out the song. 
 
 
  Even for Achcham Yenbadhu Madamaiyada, we spoke to various labels, but we were not happy with the offer that we got. We decided to put it out ourselves as we didn’t want to undermine that product. At that time, this platform was a new channel and we didn’t have too much content.   gave us the permission to go ahead and put it out ourselves. We didn’t worry about the amount of money we would be making. This is more of an investment for the future.
 
 We are not expecting the returns in a certain period of time as that won’t happen so quickly. People come to our channel to watch good stuff and that’s why we are not cutting back on quality. 
 
  That was started as a platform to bring in musicians to give fully, composed songs without any visuals. But this idea, with Gautham, is something that we have been talking about for a few years. These are songs with concepts, tunes, lyrics and visuals, which is given good direction by Gautham. So, this is different. But ultimately, the goal is the same — to promote independent music.
 
 That’s the idea. All the songs should be used in my films or someone else’s films, with a different video, of course. The stories themselves work as great scripts. There is one on a Carnatic singer and a classical dancer falling in love with a rock musician. We’ve come up with so many ideas that we could do this as a musical. The one that’s coming out next is a love song, which we will be releasing on February 14.
 
 In fact, the teaser of our next song, Ulaviravu, was the opening lines in Koova. This is a term that I coined, which means date night. It is about a couple who go on a date, old-school style. 
 
 The term playback singing won’t be there for too long. The game has changed in the music scene. The way songs are portrayed today is changing; they are being part of a film’s narrative. What is expected out singers has changed, too. Today, you want singers to be multi-talented. You are expected to contribute in multiple ways. It is not only about sruthi, it is also about how well you can perform in the other areas as well. I am one guy who has witnessed this change over the years. And to produce your own music is the way to go, just like how its been done in the west. 
 
 
 
 
