RANCHI:   on Sunday took potshots at   in   for " " despite his newfound   in Bihar. 

 Kumar, who attended a daylong state level meet of JD(U) workers here in Dhurwa, also pitched for complete prohibition of liquor and an end to dowry and child marriages in Jharkhand. 
 
 "The demand for complete prohibition on alcohol is getting stronger among women in Jharkhand. I had said this during my previous visits in Ranchi and Jamshedpur and I will say it again. It takes courage to implement such tough decisions," Kumar said, without naming BJP or chief minister Raghubar Das. 
 
 The JD(U) on Sunday pledged to add more than two lakh members in its fold before the 2019 parliamentary polls and set its footprints on the gram panchayats. Kumar spoke on the social changes being brought about in Bihar.
 
 "I was given the opportunity to serve Bihar in 2005. We brought 50% reservation for women in gram panchayats. The literacy rate among girls was improved by distributing uniforms and bicycles for free. Bihar's roads were the butt of all jokes and electric cables were used to dry cloths. A lot has changed since then," Kumar said.
 
 "On the other hand, we had hoped that Jharkhand will become the numero-uno state with its rich mineral reserves, hard-working people and interest for agriculture. But we all know what happened here," the Bihar chief minister stressed.
 
 Urging JD(U) workers to campaign against dowry and child marriages, Kumar said, "We do not have to speak for ourselves in Bihar, such is the improvement. It must happen in Jharkhand now." 
 
 The JD(U) president's statement was seen by many in the party ranks as a "dig" at the Das government's penchant for self-publicity even with "little development on the ground". 
 
 Eyeing increased presence of JD(U) in Jharkhand, Kumar aimed to woo the tribal community by demanding tribal status for the state. Reminding how he opposed the state government's efforts to amend the Chotanagpur and Santhal Pargana Tenancy Acts last year, Kumar batted for Scheduled Tribe status for the the Kurmi community. 
 
 
