CHARMINAR: Lack of infrastructure, staff and basic facilities has crippled the functioning of the  , popularly known as Government   near the historical   in OldCity.

 Even six years after the proposal to renovatethehospital, which was established during the reign of Nizams, no efforts have been made to start the work, medical representatives at thehospital said.
 According to Dr A A Khan, the state general secretary of   (TUMOA), the government Unani Hospital had at least1500outpatients per day until 2015, but currently the number has come down to as low as 500or 600 per day.
 
 “While there are enough people in the city who are still loyal to the Unani system of medicine, with the lack of basic amenities, it appears as if they are forcing even the most faithful to think twice before they come here for treatment,” Khan said, while also remarking on a deficit of ward boys, attendants and other classfour employees. Apart from that, outsourced employees have also been reduced due to lack of budget. Eightoutsourcedemployees, including an electrician, were sacked recently.
 
 “We experience a lot of electrical problems now, since the only electrician of the hospital was removed,” an attendant at thehospital said. A couple of visits to the hospital revealed an unhygienic and untidy set-up that is more likely to attract diseases than drive them away.
 
 “There are cobwebs and paan stains at every nook and cranny of this hospital. But what is more disheartening is that, it is a heritage building and thebiggestUnani Hospital in Asia,” said a ward boy on thecondition of anonymity.
 
 “There are no toilets for non-teaching staff. We have to ask permission and use the one’s which are meant for the teaching staff in their office rooms. Most of us don’t feel comfortable asking for permission every time,” hesaid.
 
 The staff and patients of the hospital complain that the tallclaims of thesuccessive governments regarding health care may be theoretically sound but in reality, they are in shambles.
 
