PANAJI: Despite not officially participating in the ongoing cab strike, the black and yellow taxis that have a counter outside the Goa international airport in  , did little to provide respite to people looking to travel comfortably.

 This comes after Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC) chairman   tried unsuccessfully to convince the members of the united taximen’s association to operate their vehicles. Despite assuring them that no untoward incident would happen, offering to travel along with a black and yellow taxi, and even promising one police escort vehicle per ten taxis, the drivers stuck to their stance. 
 
 But, the reason the association chose not to ply their taxis during the day appeared to have little to do with the fear of their vehicles being stoned, with president Sanjay   saying, “If we allow our taxis to run today, the newspapers will carry headlines stating that the black and yellow taxis were running in full swing. This may not get us into trouble today but in the future, the private tourist taxi operators will hold this against us.”
 
 “Our taxis will transport senior citizens, persons with disabilities, pregnant mothers and those with children,” Naik told reporters.
 
 “They’re unnecessarily hand in glove with private taxi operators. They’ve already installed speed governors and shouldn’t be supporting the striking taxis,”   said, adding that the drivers of yellow and black cabs had no guts and alleging they’re colluding with the striking drivers. 
 
 “If this behavior continues, we will not support them any further and will open the counter for other taxi operators too,” he said, adding that tourism in Goa comprises more than just taxi drivers and they were bringing a bad name to the state.
 
 Meanwhile, commuters at   railway station managed to avoid any major inconvenience, with the black and yellow cabs providing subtantial service along with KTC buses, motorcycle taxis and autorickshaws. 
 
 Even as a team of officials from the directorate of transport, led by assistant director Sandeep Dessai, kept watch at the station alongside police personnel, there were a few cases of touts cajoling groups of tourists to hire their vehicles, whether cab or motorcycle taxi. 
 
 
