She may have done just three films in a span of seven years. but model-turned-actor  , who won rave reviews and a lot of love from the audience for her role in the romcom  , says she’d rather do quality work than sign films just to be visible. During her recent visit to Hyderabad, the Delhi girl took time out to sit down for a chat with Hyderabad Times and opened up about everything from working in Bollywood to visiting the city of Nizams for the very first time. 
 
 Excerpts: 
 
 
 
 (Laughs) Yep, even I can’t believe it took me so long to visit this gorgeous city! I’ve heard such a great deal about the city and always wanted to come here. I’ve heard so much about the food and the culture, but unfortunately, this is a fly-by work trip so I’m not getting any food or culture fix. but I am not heading back without sampling some of your famed biryani and haleem. I heard it’s haleem season... I can’t wait to step out in the city and try some.
 
 
 That film has just been fantastic for my career. since then, I’m getting recognised everywhere, across the country! Here too, a lot of people recognised me even at the airport. there’s a lot of love pouring in. it’s all so overwhelming. I’m getting a lot of calls for work and reading a lot of scripts. So, let’s see if anything good comes my way.
 
 
 It’s hard, trust me. especially for a new girl to be here without any connections, it’s tough. In a way, I feel fortunate that I have gotten to do some great work without really having any godfather or powerful connections in the industry. I genuinely believe that you get recognised for the work you do, irrespective of how long it takes. 
 
 
 
 Fortunately or unfortunately, I’ve only done rom-coms so far, that’s true. but hey, all three films have been successful. And, I enjoyed doing all of them. That said, yes, I’d like to try out other genres as well. I would love to do a love story or a film where I can dance. 
 
 
 
 Absolutely. Slapstick or forced comedies just don’t work anymore. You need something more to keep the audience engaged and to make them laugh. There needs to be a sense of relatability. Today, for romantic comedies to be successful, you have to be hysterically funny. 
 
 
 
 Yes, being in a multi-starrer is difficult because you have to work doubly hard to make your presence felt. Fortunately, my role in Sonu Ke Titu Ki Sweety was a meatier one and so I was not overpowered or lost. It’s all about how effectively you perform and how you manage to stand out in the screen space given to you. 
 
