BENGALURU: Back in the day, ticket cost didn’t run into thousands of rupees, there were no swanky corporate boxes with hospitality or plush bucket seats. On offer were two-anna tickets, concrete flooring which doubled as seats, and puffed rice, roasted peanuts and masala chai for refreshments. 

 The contrast between a fan experience then and now is sharp, and fan culture too has changed over the years.
 
 Until a few decades ago, stadiums were a rarity and sport was essentially played at grounds. Each of them has a story to tell. 
 
 Be it Central College Ground which has hosted legends of cricket like Vijay Hazare, BS Chandrasekhar, EAS Prasanna, GR Viswanath and Anil Kumble, or Bangalore Football Stadium hosting local league matches, especially old foes HAL and ITI in action or the Bangalore Muslims, stadiums were always full. The Sullivan Police Grounds, where a generation of footballers drew inspiration by watching Englishmen play the sport, turned into a hockey hotbed and has even hosted the legendary Dhyan Chand.
 
 Central College Ground has played a huge role in shaping the careers of many cricket legends of the state and was the only good cricket destination in the city until M   came up in the early 1970s.
 
 G Kasturirangan, former   cricket captain, believes the knowledgable crowd and its enthusiasm drove players when the chips were down. 
 
 “The opposition feared my bouncers, but I got the maximum cheers for it from the spectators. There was no concept of security back then. Fans running on to the field when a player scored a century or a bowler took wickets, was quite normal. At least 10-15 of them would come running enthusiastically. Once they had congratulated the player, they would return to the pie seats and continue to shower unconditional love,” recalled the 86-year-old.
 
 PLAYER-FAN INTERACTION 
 
 Suresh Menon, noted journalist and author who grew up with a healthy dose of cricket at home with his mother being a cricket enthusiast, recalled that watching sport was never limited. “I thoroughly enjoyed watching athletes at the BSA meet and also loved going to football and cricket grounds. Sporting culture in schools was strong, and that really helped. My earliest fan boy memory is of holding my father's hand and going to Central College Ground to watch South Zone vs Australia, in which EAS Prasanna claimed six wickets and Bill Lowery padded up to him and claimed the spectators were distracting him, and saw his team to a draw. The aftermath of the draw was nothing short of mini riots in the stands. Another thing that stood out in those times is the player-fan interaction. I remember when we played at (St Joseph’s) Hostel Grounds during college, Chandrasekhar, GRV and Syed Kirmani would drop by to watch us.”
 
 Krishnamurthy, a former state player and secretary of  , said, “It was a different world and fandom in those days. I’ve watched an India-Pakistan hockey match at Chinnaswamy Stadium which was overflowing with people. It wasn't only international events, local tournaments in hockey and football too were much sort after. There were no sponsors, yet outstation teams’ hospitality and a nominal match fee could be paid with the gate collection. That was the volume of spectators who came to the stadiums.”
 
 Attributing the change in fan culture to lifestyle, Krishnamurthy said, “Back then, most of the teams were from the public sector, and a majority of fans worked in those places. So the companies would allow them to leave office early and even provide the company bus! Can we imagine something like that now? Also, sport was among the very few forms of entertainment people had. People knew all about HAL, MEG or ITI teams and its players because they were not exposed to Spanish, English or German leagues. They valued both local and international events equally. As kids, when we walked back from school it was a great feeling to see company buses lined up outside the football stadium or Sullivan Police Grounds. But often, the cheering of players reached us before we spotted the buses.”
 
 It wasn’t just men’s sport which drew the numbers, women’s teams too were followed. 
 
 Recalling the fan following, former India hockey captain Elvira Britto said, “The number of people who came to watch our matches was amazing. They packed every venue, from   to Sullivan Grounds. Be it an inter-school match or a state event, there were always people in plenty at the ground. It is sad that you don’t see more than a handful at a hockey match anymore.”
 
 Fans spoilt for choice
 
 Over the past decade,   fandom has undergone a massive revival in Bengaluru. What began as an addiction with Royal Challengers Bangalore in 2008, has swelled into a huge wave of passionate admiration with the advent of   five years ago.
 
 With an array of teams to call their own, sports fans in Bengaluru are spoilt for choice. The Indian Premier League may stretch for only two months, but that’s more than enough for the Virat Kohli-led RCB to hold sway. Every April and May, all roads lead to M Chinnaswamy Stadium as T20-crazy fans turn up in large numbers, armed with flags and posters, to cheer their stars.
 
 Bengaluru Bulls (kabaddi) and Bengaluru Blasters (badminton) have also played their part in sparking interest in young fans. But while the love for RCB remains a seasonal affair, the passion for BFC is through the year. With the club having made its mark at both the national and Asian level, football fans have found a balance between their allegiance for the Blues and their favourite European clubs.
 
 Match days at Sree Kanteerava Stadium are nothing less than a carnival. Vociferous fans, faces painted in club colours and with flags and scarves, chant praises of their heroes, similar to the boisterous football following seen in England and Spain.
 
 Gigantic tifos and banners are unfurled inside the stadium by West Block Blues, one of the country’s most renowned football fan bases, which can be an intimidating sight for visiting teams. Every foul is booed and every BFC goal is celebrated with Shankar Nag’s evergreen hit Santhoshakke Haadu, bringing to life the symbolic social and emotional connect the sport has forged in the city.
 
 The old might have given way to the new, but the spirit of fandom will forever remain the same.
 
 Sporting arenas
 
 Grounds which have been part of Bengaluru’s rich sporting history and drawn thousands of spectators
 
 * Central College Ground
 
 The birthplace of cricket in Karnataka, this ground is steeped in history. It’s here that some of the state's finest cricketers such as G Kasturirangan, GR Viswanath, BS Chandrasekhar, EAS Prasanna, Syed Kirmani, Brijesh Patel and Roger Binny built their careers, and K Thimmappiah became the first Karnataka cricketer to score a century, and the ground was not limited to Indian players alone. Spectators bought tickets worth 4 annas, sat on concrete floors and watched stars such as Windies’ legend Sir Gary Sobers, New Zealand southpaw Bert Sutcliffe and Australia’s Neil Harvey make merry on the ground which hosted 52 first class matches from 1941, until the M Chinnaswamy Stadium was built in 1972. 
 
 * Sullivan Police Grounds
 
 Pre-Independence era in Bengaluru is mostly remembered for British soldiers garrisoned in the city and their love for sport. One of their primary passions was football, played with much gusto by soldiers in boots and watched with equal interest by large crowds. During the 1941 Stafford Cup final between favourites Bangalore Muslims and Hyderabad City Police, such was the capacity crowd that people spilled on to the ground, camping near the touchline. Ground staff were deployed to forcefully push people back so that players could take corner kicks. Hockey, too, has had its share of history at this ground with the legendary Dhyan Chand said to have displayed his magic here. 
 
 * Garrison Grounds
 
 This ground (area surrounding Manekshaw Parade Grounds and Cubbon Road) has been the hotbed of several international and Olympian football stars such as T Shanmugam, KV Varadarajan, M Kempaiah and KP Dhanraj, who wowed spectators with their skills. In the early 1940s, it is believed that the British Army kept Italian prisoners of war at these grounds, who used to play friendlies against barefoot locals, watched by crowds in large numbers. 
 
 * National College Ground
 
 An iconic venue in Bengaluru South, it played host to the launch of legends such as GR Viswanath, EAS Prasanna, BS Chandrasekhar and Anil Kumble. Six local cricket clubs also took birth at this ground, along with Bangalore Union Football Club and several basketball and ball badminton clubs. 
 
 * Hollywood City
 
 In the early 1930s after sundown, all roads in Bengaluru lead to Hollywood City (now the grounds opposite  ) to soak in an evening of boxing. With World War II troops stationed in abundance, army bouts became a ticketed affair and soon, professional fighters from all over the world made Bengaluru their home. Bouts were also held at Sullivan Grounds, New Opera Talkies and Garrison Grounds, where fighters battled for a purse of Rs 500. Also, 50 paise gave you the best seats in the house and tickets priced between 4 and 8 annas were lapped up well in advance. 
 
 * Bangalore Football Stadium
 
 A handful of days a year when local heavyweights HAL and ITI lined up against each other -- either in the league or state and national-level tournaments -- Bangalore Football Stadium would assume the mantle of ‘the place to be’. The intense rivalry and an electric atmosphere would see fans take over the stadium, consistently over 10,000 strong, to support their team, shelling out anywhere between Rs 5 and Rs 20. Going back even further to the ’70s, 50 paise would get you front seats to the titanic local derby.
 
