NAGPUR: The historic triumph of   team has brought enthusiasm in the other sports disciplines. Coaches and officials of various sports bodies in the region believe that they can also do it. If cricketers can reach the top, why can’t we, they ask.

 Arun Lakhani, the chief architect behind the success of the 82nd Senior National Badminton Championship held at the Divisional Sports Complex in November, felt “it’s a great achievement for Vidarbha”. “It also shows   is emerging as a force in sports like cricket and badminton. City shuttlers have been dominating the national circuit in the last couple of years and that is the reason we have 5 junior players in top-10 including No 1,” he said.
 
 Chhatrapati awardee and president of Nagpur District Athletic Association, Baban Taywade said the success of cricket will help other sports to gain popularity in the region. “I congratulate   and company for achieving a remarkable feat. Credit should also go to Vidarbha Cricket Association for its professional approach too. We have abundant talent at our disposal, it only needs to be groomed. I am confident that the present team will continue to do well and some of the players will break into the national side soon,” said Taywade.
 
 Experienced swimming coach   advices the high-flying Ranji team to retain its hunger for victory. “Vidarbha is rising and Nagpur plays a vital role in that. There is a lot of talent in the city which needs to be nurtured. For this, we need to set up a good infrastructure and maintain it. A team effort is needed for the success of any sport,” said Chande.
 
 International player and reputed badminton coach of the city Kiran Makode said the government should improve the infrastructure of other sports to get success like Vidarbha Ranji team. “Good days are ahead for Vidarbha in sports. Nagpur players are doing very well in all games. We have shown that they don’t lag behind as far as talent is concerned. This should encourage government authorities to shore up infrastructure for all games in the city,” said Makode.
 
 The secretary of Nagpur District Volleyball Association and noted coach Sunil Hande regrets the lack of money in volleyball but praised the efforts of VCA. “The entire team and support staff of Vidarbha needs to be complimented for this spectacular show.   should be retained as coach for another few years,” he said.
 
 Senior chess administrator and former player Dilip Pagay said Vidarbha always had the talent but “we did not get the scope to showcase our performance”. “This marvellous feat by local cricketers has once again proved that we are not far behind from other established states. The performance of Vidarbha cricket team has opened the issue of separate state. Local chess players, particularly the sub-junior and junior lot, have been producing very good results in the last few years,” he said.
 
