MUMBAI: The   has completed raising the height of platforms at all its stations to prevent accidents due to passengers falling into the gap between the surface and the footboard of trains.

 
  
  
 
 The work was carried out on the directive of the high court in 2014 after two commuters lost limbs on falling into the gap between trains and platforms, in separate incidents, in January that year. 
 
 WR’s chief public relations officer   said, “We have raised the height of platforms at all stations to 900 mm, at a cost of Rs 30 crore.” There were a total of 145 platforms between Churchgate and Virar and 21 between Vaiitarna and Dahanu Road whose height had to be raised.
 
 The number of casualties has come down following the increase in the height of platforms. According to Government Railway Police statistics, 28 casualties were reported on WR in 2015. The figures stood at 7 in 2016 and 10 in 2017.
 
 A WR official said, “Some of these accidents happen because people lose balance while trying to board a running train. In such cases, casualties can happen even if the   is adequate.”
 
 After Kurla resident Monika More lost her arms while trying to board a running train at Ghatkopar in January 2014, the Research, Designs and Standards Organisation, the suburban railway and a HC-appointed committee of citizens undertook trials in February 2014 to ascertain the ideal platform height. The HC-appointed committee recommended an optimum height of 900 mm, saying it should not exceed 920 mm as it can lead to rakes hitting the platform.
 
 The HC had asked the committee to check if the height can go above 920 mm, but oscillation trials revealed that a greater height can lead to train edges graze with the surface of the platform. Also, as the tracks tend to sink during monsoon due to shifting of soil, the clearance level can come down and train can hit the platform. The committee also said that there is also a possibility of springs failing, which also can also cause reduction in the clearance gap.
 
 
