MUMBAI: Within days after the Rs 11,700 crore PNB scam involving   and   was exposed, the   (ED) announced it seized diamonds, jewelry and gold worth Rs 5,700 crore from their showrooms and properties.

 However, this figure has been questioned by experts in the diamond industry including jewelers and government-approved valuers, who said it is ``bloated and far-fetched’’.
 
 Even among the ED, one officer feared that the actual value could turn out to be far less than earlier estimated. But senior officers in the department were confident and said the final value will be more than Rs 5,700 crore. 
 
 “After a preliminary check, valuers said the price of diamonds could be more than mentioned in Nirav’s company records. Most of these were seized from godowns and we believe that Nirav’s companies categorized them according to their purchase value. Sale value of the diamond could be more than purchase value. Our experts are trying to ascertain their real value and it will take few days,” said the ED source.
 
 The valuables are currently stored at the government vault in Mumbai and a government approved valuer is examining the diamonds to decide their real value.
 
 A reputed jeweler from south Mumbai told TOI, "It is impossible to value this much jewelry in a day or two. The ED would have to go to a government approved valuer and the process would take at least month. It's likely they have gone by the book value of the diamonds, but this may have been highly inflated since it was probably used as collateral for further borrowing."
 
 A government-approved valuer, not wishing to be identified, agreed that the process of valuing diamonds can take over a month. "When the final valuation is done, it will be much less than what has been announced by the ED. During valuation, we do not take into consideration the labour cost and design of the ornaments," he said.
 
 How is jewelry valued? Experts said valuing diamond studded jewelry takes a longer time than valuing unset diamonds. ``First you look at the worth of diamonds in the jewelry on their quality based on their cut, clarity, colour and carat weight,’’ they said.
 
 "Secondly you estimate the weight of each stone. Since this is a liquidation of jewelry, the design and the brand become irrelevant in valuation. Hence, the price fetched in the market will be less than a sale in the normal course to a client," they added.
 
 For unset stones backed by a certificate from a reputed laboratory the valuation process is slightly faster. The valuation of precious stones is more subjective and takes longer.
 
 Another industry source said, ``Isn’t it strange that the RBI took months after demonetization to count old currency notes submitted by banks, while the ED could establish worth of diamonds and jewelry within a few days.’’
 
 “I have a basic doubt,” said one of the largest diamond merchants of the country. “If Nirav Modi had goods worth Rs 6000 crore, do you think he would have been in such a deep financial crisis? You see, this industry works on credit, and receivables are usually twice the value of stock in hand,” he added.
 
 Most in the diamond industry believe that the ED’s declaration is an ad-hoc figure, maybe the sum total of the tag price of the goods taken. “But the diamond market is such that even as merchants, we know that when new packets are bought, each stone is checked for its authenticity,” said another. A complete valuation of the diamonds seized from Modi’s various outlets may take a team of three to four people about 20-25 days,’’ said those in the trade.
 
 “We were surprised that a day after the PNB scam broke that the ED was quick to declare that goods were Rs 5,100 crore had been seized by them. It is impossible to know that unless you check the goods. The ED may have taken the value from Modi’s books of accounts or the tag prices, but that may not be the correct value,” said another diamond merchant who runs a large number of jewelry retail outlets.
 
