BENGALURU: The battle over sharing of   water ended on Friday, with the apex court directing the Centre to constitute the   (CMB) within six weeks. But the verdict marks the beginning of a fresh political battle.

 Though Karnataka has termed the decision “balanced”, not many in the corridors of power are enthused about the CMB, and are exploring legal options. Successive governments in Karnataka have been opposing the CMB, arguing that it would mean loss of control over water flow. But lower riparian state   has been demanding the CMB as it would end the haggling with Karnataka for water.
 
  
  
 
 The CMB, to be set up on the lines of the  , will ensure equitable distribution of water and supervise operation of reservoirs and regulate release of water. It’ll be headed by a full-time chairman and under the Union water resources ministry.
 
 If the CMB is set up, the state’s four reservoirs – Hemavathy, Harangi, Kabini and Krishnaraja Sagar – will come under its control and the state government will have to relinquish control over their management. Karnataka may find it difficult to go ahead with the construction of dams and other irrigation projects in the Cauvery river basin.
 
 Moreover, clearance for the Rs 5,500-crore balancing reservoir proposed at Mekedatu could be caught in legal wrangles.
 
 Chief minister Siddaramaiah on Friday deflected a question about the CMB, “The Supreme Court has decided on it. Now, let the Centre decide.”
 
 The CMB could be a litmus test for Karnataka politicians and Prime Minister  , for whom the 39 Lok Sabha seats in Tamil Nadu and 28 seats in Karnataka are crucial in the 2019 parliamentary polls.
 
 “If the Centre constitutes the CMB, the   and JD(S) in Karnataka will cry foul and accuse the   of sabotaging the state’s interests. If the Centre delays setting up the CMB, Modi will find it difficult to handle Tamil Nadu,” a former IAS officer said.
 
 Moreover, the CMB will change political dynamics in the   region where former PM H D Deve Gowda’s JD(S) and Congress lock horns.
 
 “Releasing Cauvery water to Tamil Nadu in distress is one of the reasons for the farmers’ agitation in the Mandya-Mysuru region. While the party in power consolidates its position by refusing to release water, opposition parties maintain hawkeyed vigil on the release of water. If the CMB is set up, politicians will find it difficult to manipulate the situation,” the officer added.
 
 However, the other viewpoint was that every water dispute tribunal has ordered a management board to be set up. “The board will have representation from all riparian states, apart from the Centre. Karnataka’s interest will not be harmed,’’ sources said.
 
