Pune: The Fifa World Cup is just around the corner, and football aficionados from Pune are packing their bags for Russia.

 “Watching a Fifa World Cup game live is at the top of the bucket list for any football fan. I can’t believe I am actually going to fulfil a lifelong dream when I touch down in Moscow next month,” gushed Roshan  , a football fanatic.
 
 
  
 
 Fernandez said he lucked out with the tickets. “One good thing about booking these tickets was the foreign currency conversion rate (1 rouble = Rs1.1), so they did not burn a hole in my pocket,” he said. 
 
 According to the travel agency Cox & Kings Limited, there was a 20% increase in travel to Russia. compared to the previous World Cup in Brazil. “Simplified visa arrangements between India and Russia have also contributed to this growth — travellers can get a visa in only 10 working days,” a source said.
 
 Varun Gupta, chief executive officer of travel portal Goomo said Indians are just as fond of football as they are of cricket,. “Fifa madness is definitely visible among travellers. We see a 15-20% rise in flight bookings to Russia in June, especially among travellers from Pune,” he said. 
 
 “I am a huge fan of Lionel Messi, so booking tickets for Argentina’s opener against Iceland (June 16) was a no-brainer,” said  , a city-based professional. “I will also be watching world champions Germany (vs Mexico on June 17) and   (  vs Morocco, June 20) in action, as both matches will be played in the same city that week,” she said/
 
 According to Abhishek Rajan, vice president, Paytm, a majority of people travelling to the World Cup the event are male, while nearly half are young. “Men account for almost 70% of the people travelling to Russia next month, while 48% are between 26-34 years old,” said Rajan.
 
 “Fifa matches are one of the factors propelling this increase,” felt Balu Ramachandran, head (air and distribution),  , “Year-on-year bookings with us have increased three-fold, and we have also seen a 12% rise in couple bookings to Russia.” 
 
 “Russia normally has 75% occupancy, but for Fifa, it has gone up to 100%,” said  , co-founder, Travkart.
 
 
