JAIPUR: Following a high rise in the demand for students opting for humanities subjects, the city   are becoming more flexible in introducing humanities in the senior secondary classes. There has been a considerable increase in the number of students and schools that are opening up to combinations of humanities subjects, other than the monotonous combinations of science and commerce.

 Principal of Cambridge Court High School Lata Rawat said, “In the past two years, we are witnessing a greater inclination of students towards humanities. We are introducing new sets of subjects from next academic session.” She added, “Students are scoring an all-time high with humanities subject combinations.   topper this year Meghna Srivatava and aggregate toppers are from humanities. They are not only keeping in mind the scores but also that humanities offer a plethora of career options for students.”
 
 The new generation has been defining humanities in a different way. What it has always been since the time our grandparents and parents were in schools. Leena Saxena, a parent and resident of Jaipur, said, “I was too very un-supportive of my daughter opting for humanities fearing her career choices as this what has always been an image for the humanities subjects in our times. It was a subject that nobody preferred due to lesser vocational choices and science was the first preference for everyone, followed by commerce.” But now as I see it looks like humanities is the next competitive stream with a vast number of professions to offer like civil services, law, journalism, etc,” she added.
 
 City schools have also been flexible with students from commerce opting for a subject from humanities as their optional field of study. Karuna Yadav, prinicipal of Kapil Gyan Peeth (KGP) shared that “seeing a significant rise in past two years we introduced humanities in senior secondary last year only, and number of students opting for humanities has been growing day by day. Yadav says, “Last year, I had a batch of 24 students when humanities was introduced and now the number has gone up to 40. My own bright students who scored tremendous in 10th board sciences and mathematics are taking up humanities aiming for civil services or economic honours from DU. It is pleasing to the eyes seeing children thinking beyond medicine and engineering as one of my students in counselling sessions told me that she wanted to become a content writer, and some wanted to go for intellectual property or cyber law,” added Karuna.
 
 Schools are also becoming flexible with the combinations of subjects that students can study. A teacher of KGP said, “Students these days are moving away from conventional league of subjects such PCM, PCB or commerce with mathematics, as one of our students from commerce left accountancy and opted for psychology instead”. Psychology, one of the most preferred subjects in humanities has significantly been a subject of interest for many students irrespective of their stream whether it is science or commerce.
 
 
