PATNA: At least eight persons died in separate road accidents in Patna, Chhapra, Begusarai and Samastipur districts on Wednesday. More than two dozen cases of road accidents, including six in the state capital, have been reported in the last two days as the state is observing Road Safety Week from April 23 to April 30.

 One Dina Singh (50) of Fatuha died when a tractor rammed into his motorbike near Sherodhpur under the Khusrupur police station area in Patna district on Wednesday. Khusrupur SHO Mrityunjay said the driver escaped with his tractor. “Dina’s body was sent to NMCH for post mortem,” he said.
 
 Munna Baitha (30) of Hansrajpur under the Ekma police station area, Dasrath Manjhi (50) of Siswa and   of Eksaar under the Doudpur police station area in Saran district died and nine others were seriously injured when a speeding pickup van carrying 13 orchestra artists turned turtle near Banwar railway crossing on NH-85 (Chhapra-Siwan) on Wednesday. The injured were admitted to Chhapra Sadar hospital for treatment. The orchestra party members returning from a marriage ceremony at Pandeypur under the Durounda police station area in Siwan district and were headed to Karnpura village in Vaishali. Saran SP Har Kishore Rai said two of the injured, Guddu and Purabia, have been referred to PMCH.
 
 In Begusarai, one   and his mother-in-law   were run over by a truck at Rasidpur under the Bachhwara police station area at around 3.30pm when they were returning from Jhampatia. They belonged to Muzaffarpur. Begusarai SP   said the truck was seized but the drive managed to escape.
 
 One Munni Devi (50) and a police constable Ramanand Paswan (36) died on the spot after the police jeep carrying them overturned near Jituapur Kothi under the Muffasil police station area in Samastipur district on Wednesday morning. Munni was the paternal aunt of Pankaj. Their bodies were sent to sadar hospital for post mortem.
 
 Meanwhile, six schoolchildren and an auto-rickshaw driver got injured after a head-on collision with an SUV near Bihta roundabout on NH-30 on Wednesday morning. The auto-rickshaw was turning towards the school when the SUV driver dashed against it. 
 
 
