New Delhi: Suresh Narayanan, chairman and MD of  , talks to TOI about how ‘Power of Print’ (POP) can #HelpParentsKnowGoodFood. In the 2017 edition, the Swiss food giant used Times Group’s   initiative to attract creative agencies to work on promoting the cause of #EducateTheGirlChild. After the successful campaign, Narayanan is now upping the ante by using the print medium innovatively to spread credible information about children’s nutrition.

 What was the impact of the first edition of Power of Print, which centred on sending more girl children to school?
 
 It was a pioneering initiative for both Nestle and TOI. We took on a theme that was important to build some collective responsibility and inspiration around the campaign of sending more girls to school. Print continues to grow because it is tangible and has credibility. Print builds opinions over a period of time. We were very heartened by the response we had on the first POP.
 
 Why did you choose to focus on children’s nutrition in the second year?
 
 It goes back to the roots of the company. In the current over-informed society, we noticed that there is a paucity of credible and authentic information on nutrition. As a country, we have a dual problem of nutrition, which is obesity on one hand and on the other, we have children who are deprived of basic levels of nutrition. The whole area of nutrition needs to be objective, factual, proactive and helpful to consumers. Instead, it sometimes turns out to be emotive, less accurate, and fake news.
 
 Will we see a change in Nestle India’s strategy with respect to children’s nutrition?
 
 For us, improving the nutrition content of our products has been a continuous journey, whether it’s the reduction of sugar levels or the reduction of salt in   range of products or even fortification of our products. We are striving to ensure the nutrient credentials that we shall offer over a period of time continue to improve.
 
 What is the difference between developed markets and India with regards to the 
 
 children’s nutrition?
 
 The level of awareness in developed countries of what is good nutrition and what is adequate or robust nutrition for children is well understood because of the levels of education and dissemination of adequate information. It is also due to the involvement of the government and other interest groups. In India, awareness of nutrition is becoming stronger day-by-day although it’s largely an urban phenomenon. That’s why we looked at this theme for POP.
 
 When should organisations similar to yours use print as a medium of 
 
 communication?
 
 For me, there are compelling reasons why marketers should use print. If you take the spread of print in this country, the fact of the matter is, print provides a platform for communicating brand related information in a targeted manner. Second, there are many ‘Indias’ within India. The country has regional and local nuances which are best capitalised with print medium. The time for print has been there, continues to be there and like an evergreen hero, print will be around for a long time. 
 
 
