TIRUVANNAMALAI: The   police on Friday arrested a 29-year-old   for allegedly circulating a message through WhatsApp which led to some incidents of   in  . It is the first arrest made in the state for circulating rumours that resulted in lynching of five people in Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts in the last three weeks.

 Tiruvannamalai superintendent of police R Ponni told TOI that police department’s cybercrime wing had tracked the origin of the rumour that said   were on the prowl and two children had been kidnapped. “He circulated an audio message with pictures, either on April 21 or on April 22. It went viral in WhatsApp groups and spread to Cheyyar, Vandavasi, Arni and other parts of the district,” she said.
 
 Following several hours of checking the messages, the police tracked down R Veeraraghavan, a native of Purisai village in Cheyyar taluk. The police arrested him on Friday morning and registered a case against him under sections 505 (statements conducing public mischief) and 507 (criminal intimidation by anonymous communication) of the Indian Penal Code.
 
 “The cyber wing has been instructed to conduct a detailed inquiry and identify people who circulated such malicious messages. We will make more arrest to check circulation of such rumours,” the SP said.
 
 
 
 
 Following the arrest of 23 men, who allegedly lynched 65-year-old Rukhmani of Old Pallavaram on Wednesday, people in Athimoor, Thambikottan Paarai and neighbouring villages went absconding, fearing arrest. “We will arrest all the people involved in the incident and launched a search for them,” said the SP and hinted that over 50 people would be arrested in connection with the case.
 
 The police have invoked sections 147 (riot), 148 (riot, armed with deadly weapons), 294 (b) (using abusive language), 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), 307 (attempt to murder) and 302 (murder) and several other sections of IPC against the accused people. 
 
 Gajendran, one of the victims of the Wednesday’s lynching incident in Athimoor village who was admitted to Christian Medical College Hospital, was operated on Thursday for the injuries he sustained on his head. He was shifted to ICU and his condition remained critical, the SP said. Chandrasekaran, 33, was shifted out of ICU after his condition improved, while S Mohankumar, 45, was discharged from hospital.
 
 
