MUMBAI: On Sunday, the Saifee Burhani Upliftment Trust ( ) created a decade ago for cluster redevelopment of   will take out a peace march through the congested area, home to scores of old and dilapidated buildings. The march that will see the participation of children from the neighbourhood is to urge around 700 tenants who are yet to move out to make up their mind on shifting.

 
 Last year’s Hussaini building collapse that claimed 33 lives has prodded the SBUT to identify old and dilapidated buildings and take up their demolition.  , head of tenant management for the trust, was arrested in March this year for culpable homicide not amounting to murder in the case, and is still in jail. Since the tragedy SBUT has been issuing notices to tenants of old and dilapidated buildings to vacate voluntarily or be forcibly evicted. MHADA officials said that if tenants do not vacate, they would be forced to seek police intervention to move them out.
 
  
 “We identified 250 old and dilapidated buildings. So far we have demolished over a hundred buildings but there are more than a hundred others that are still occupied, with residents refusing to move though we have increased the (transit) rent to Rs 30,000 per month and are giving two years rent in advance,” said a SBUT spokesperson.
 
 Syed Jalaluddin, head of NCP’s minorities cell who filed a public interest litigation demanding accountability in last year’s building collapse, said residents want to move out. “The issue is whether the Trust is providing adequate rent or alternative accommodation. SBUT has not registered a majority of the agreements it has signed with tenants. There is no clarity on when tenants would return to Bhendi Bazaar and on which floor they will be housed. The government must enquire into the non-registration of the agreements as it is losing revenue by non-payment of stamp duty,” he said. He said the trust and the government must use force if required to evict tenants so that no lives are lost.
 
 Local residents declining to be identified said they are unable to find houses on rent in the area and the Trust is not providing alternative accommodation. A cycle repair shop owner has served a notice on the SBUT as he has been promised a shop on the second floor of the redeveloped building. Residents asked: “Who will carry the bicycle two floors up to be repaired?”
 
 The uncertainty of returning to Bhendi Bazaar after the redevelopment is also one of the prime reasons for the reluctance to move out.
 
 An SBUT spokesperson said the redevelopment of cluster one and three is underway and will be completed next year. “We will be shifting back 600 residential tenants and 100 commercial shops next year. Cluster 2 is also being readied to be reconstructed,” he said.
 
