Social media has been abuzz for the past couple of days about the 3D horror film  . The film, which is being produced by cinematographer-turned-director  , will be directed by debutant  . The makers have roped in   to play the lead in this horror film, which will be shot in Tamil and Telugu, and dubbed in Hindi. 

 “Usually, horror films have a bunch of elements — a haunted place, a few friends, a ghost with overdone makeup, the ghost throwing people across the room, a revenge angle and so on. We have tried to step away from such clichés with this film,” begins Raju Viswanath, who has worked in the story department of many films, especially in the Telugu industry. He has also worked with 24 director Vikram Kumar. 
 
 On why he chose Anjali for this project, the filmmaker says, “She is one actress who can speak Tamil. We began this as a short-term project, so we needed someone who could speak both the languages effortlessly and handle the workload of shooting in two languages simultaneously. Usually, we see Anjali in roles that have her as a middle-class or lower middle-class girl, but in this film, she plays a modern girl, a brave one.” 
 
 He clarifies that the film’s title is not a throwback to the yesteryear horror film, My Dear Lisa. “We considered over 200 titles and at one point, I got frustrated. One fine day, this name struck me. Only certain names sound Gothic and give that scary feel, and Lisaa is one such name. So, we decided to go with this as the title,” he explains.
 
 While Muthiah himself will be handling the cinematography of the film,   will be scoring the music. 
 Muthiah says that they decided to shoot the film in 3D to stand out from other horror films. “It has been a long time since a horror film has been made in 3D. In fact, in Tamil, there are hardly any. We looked at a few options — converting to 3D in post, using the technique used in Ambuli and so on… But finally, we decided to shoot it in 3D just like how they do abroad. We have used the same rigs that have been used to shoot 2.0. In fact, we are going to shoot in Helium 8K camera, which is even more advanced,” he says. 
 
 The team, which has shot for a day with Anjali recently, will be resuming shoot by mid-June. While the initial scenes will be set in Hyderabad, a major portion of the film will be shot in Kodaikanal. 
 
 
