CHANDIGARH: Barely a week before Canadian prime minister Justin Trudeau’s visit to India, two of his most prominent Sikh ministers have distanced themselves from news reports in India which called them   sympathisers. According to a report in The Canadian Press, Canadian defence minister Harjit Sajjan and infrastructure minister Amarjeet Sohi have said that it is ridiculous to say that they espouse the Khalisatani cause.

  chief minister Captain  , who has often called some Sikh Canadian ministers ‘Khalistani’, welcomed Sajjan and Sohi’s statements. “This indicated that the Canadian Prime Minister had clearly sent out a strong signal within his party and the government that he would not allow his country’s soil to be used for any anti-India activities,” Amarinder said.
 
 Trudeau’s cabinet has four ministers with roots in Punjab – Sajjan, Sohi, Navdeep Bains and Bardish Chagger. He will be in India from February 17 to 23 and will visit the Golden Temple at Amritsar as well. However, he is not expected to visit Chandigarh and, so far, a meeting with Amarinder is not in his itinerary so far.
 
 Sajjan’s statement said that Sohi and he “neither sympathise with nor espouse the Sikh nationalist movement, which is bent on creating a separate country called   in India’s Punjab region”.
 
 
 
 The report quotes Sajjan as saying, "If there is a small segment of people in Canada who talk about separation, who talk about the creation of Khalistan, if they do that in a peaceful way that is their right to do so but this is not an issue that I hear in the community."
 
 He added, “I've been a police officer, I've served my country and any allegations like that is absolutely ridiculous and I find it extremely offensive as well.”
 
 Amarinder had last week said that he had no problem meeting Trudeau but he would not interact with two to three of his ministers, including Sajjan, as they were ‘Khalistani sympathisers’. In April last year, Amarinder had refused to meet Sajjan during his visit to India.
 
 On Thursday, Amarinder said the latest statements had paved the way for better relations with Canada which shares strong roots with India because of the sizeable Sikh diaspora settled there. He added he had always found Trudeau to be a fine human being and he looked forward to meeting him later this month.
 
 Singh, as   Chief in 2016, had written a strongly- worded letter to Trudeau, lodging a protest for denying permission for interaction with   in Canada in run-up to the Punjab assembly elections and had called it a “gag order”.
 
 
