UDAIPUR: A day before the commencement of the holy month of Ramadan, some miscreants tried to create a commotion outside a mosque at the Chetak Circle in the wee hours of Wednesday. Few men, who came in a car, fled after abandoning a burning gas cylinder outside the masjid gate. Luckily, the Bohra community people who had risen for ‘Sehri’ witnessed the incident and immediately reported to police. The fire fighters arrived in time and thus an explosion was averted.

 
 The incident is quite shocking as the mosque is situated on one of the busiest streets in the heart of the city, with the police station located just around 100 meters away. There were a few cars parked on the road sides and eyewitnesses said if the cylinder had exploded, the flames would have spread in a larger area and caused great damage.
 
 The entire incident was caught on a CCTV and the police have taken the footage to identify the miscreants and know their intention behind the act. The incident has triggered panic and anger among the Muslim community which alleged that authorities are taking the act in a casual manner and have not even registered a case against anyone.
 
 The incident took place around three am when some men arrived at the Paltan Masjid at Chetak Circle and left a burning cylinder on the main road. The members of the   Committee met SP Rajendra Prasad Goyal and gave a memorandum demanding stringent and swift action. The Sadar of Paltan Masjid   said such an act is highly condemnable which perhaps was aimed to terrorise the community men ahead of the holy Ramadan month.
 
 “It is really unfortunate that miscreants have no fear of the police and they dared to make an explosion so as to frighten the community ahead of Ramadan. The area which is under 24 hours watch and vigil of the policemen, seems not to be so safe,”   of Anjuman Talimul Islam society said.
 
 The office bearers also said that the authorities are taking it quite casually and if they do not arrest the guilty in three days, the community would hold protests. “There are over 50 cameras installed on the street between Hathipole and Chetak Circle however, police have not been able to identify anybody in the case so far,” Riyaz Hussain informed. Meanwhile, SP Rajendra Prasad Goyal said that the incident was not too ‘serious’ and perhaps committed by some mentally sick person with no profound intentions. He also said that the gas cylinder was empty and the fire was superficial.
 
 
