BENGALURU: She was attacked and sprayed with bullets during a highway robbery in Lagos, Nigeria, on December 22, 2017. The 40-year-old Nigerian banker was brought to Bengaluru with an injured face on a breathing tube and a feeding pipe. 

 A team of maxillofacial surgeons — doctors who specialize in treating diseases, injuries and defects in the head, neck, face, jaws and maxillofacial (jaws and face) region — at Bhagwan Mahaveer Jain Hospital, Vasanthnagar, operated on her in the last week of January.
 
 While her face was reconstructed after a 10-hour surgery, she had no clue of her daughters who were killed by robbers in the attack. Her family had requested doctors in Bengaluru not to tell her during treatment and increase her trauma. She was told only recently after going back home. 
 
 “She underwent procedures to remove foreign particles and infected bone in her jaws and reconstruction of her lower jaw with a vascularized bone flap from her lower limb. She was in the ICU for two days and later shifted out where she stabilized and recovered. No details about her children was revealed during her stay here,” said Dr   who headed the team.
 
 Every time she asked about her daughters, her family said they were doing good. 
 
 Maxillofacial Surgeons’ Day 
 
 On February 13, Maxillofacial Surgeons’ Day is observed by the   and Maxillofacial Surgeons of India (AOMSI). 
 
 “The face is the most exposed part of the body and vulnerable to injuries. In a developing country like India, road accidents account for nearly 60% of injuries to the face and jaws followed by falls and assault. Facial injuries can be devastating as they lead to scars with significant disfigurement and functional problems. Most of the time, it is associated with trauma to the brain and spinal cord, making it a multidisciplinary management,” said Dr  , president, AOMSI, Karnataka chapter. 
 
 Maxillofacial surgeons play a significant role in treating facial fractures involving orbits, cheek bone, nasal bones, upper-lower jaws with associated soft tissues and teeth.
 
 
