In the latest episodes of  ,   and   are extremely worried as they don’t know how to fight with  .

  is cautious about the security of the giant’s kingdom. Knowing that Parul would arrive at any moment, Mallicka decides to stay at the entrance, the way to enter the garden .
 
 Recalling Hirimbamalla's words about Tarasur, Parul gets an idea. Parul takes sea foam and throws at Tarasur the moment the solar eclipse commences. The giant becomes still. 
 
 Parul and Raghav happily resume their journey. They approach the forest but they couldn’t find the tallest tree from where they can go further. Parul gets upset and requests the trees to help them. Her request gets fulfilled.
 
 Mallicka is eagerly waiting for Parul and Raghav. Other giants start feeling sleepy as the solar eclipse has begun. But Mallicka doesn't feel affected by solar eclipse as she is not a complete giant.
 
 Parul and Raghav near the entrance, where Mallicka is waiting for them. Suddenly a giant attacks Parul. Raghav helps her to get rid of him.
 
 Mallicka starts feeling unwell. Parul and Raghav observe Mallicka from a distance. They understand that Mallicka might have guessed their arrival. 
 Mallicka realises something is wrong and starts for Suryanagar. The moment Parul observes the entrance is empty, she wants to go inside.
 
 On her way, Mallicka understands that she shouldn't have left the entrance unattended. She decides to go back. Seeing her, Parul and Raghav hide themselves.
 
 Later they start their journey again and reach a vast water body. The moment they go nearby, they realises that it's a hotspring.
 
 Surendra is in trouble as he witnesses fume coming out from the staircase of Suryanagar’s palace. The king gets worried as there is none around to help him. He goes inside and finds out a pomegranate from where the fume is originating. He realizes that someone has planted it. Mallicka's life is kept inside the pomegranate.
 
 Parul is worried about crossing the hotspring. Suddenly she gets an idea. Parul turns Raghav into a giant frog and asks him to take her on the back and jump.
 
