CHANDIGARH: Ahead of students' council elections,   launched their biggest ever team in   on Monday. This year, the ABVP will have 75 members and in what can be seen as its first, the student party will cover all the departments and faculties. 

 "So far, this is the biggest team of ABVP in the campus. We have decided to work at the departmental level too. There would be separate teams for departments and faculties," said  , an ABVP member. The party will have six vice presidents. Last year, their team was of 53 students. 
 
 Similar to the last year, the party will contest only for presidential post. ABVP presidential candidate for the next academic session is a law student. "We are not going to divert our focus from the presidential post because when the alliances happen before the elections, the individual interest takes priority. So, our focus is clear. After last year's students' council elections, we are positive to win the presidential post this year," said  , organising secretary of ABVP, Chandigarh. 
 
  Chandigarh: Ahead of student council elections, ABVP launched their biggest ever team for the elections in Panjab University on Monday. This year, ABVP's team will have 75 members and in what can be seen as its first, the students' party will cover all the departments and faculties. 
 
 "So far, this is the biggest team of ABVP in the campus. We have decided to work at the departmental level too. There would be separate teams for departments and faculties," said Krishan, an ABVP member. 
 
 The party will have six vice presidents. Last year, their team was of 53 students. 
 
 Similar to last year, the party will contest only for presidential post. ABVP presidential candidate for the next academic session is a law student. "We are not going to divert our focus from the presidential post because when the alliances happen before the elections, the individual interest takes priority. So, our focus is clear. After last year's students' council elections, we are positive to win the presidential post this year," said Saurabh Kapoor, organising secretary of ABVP, Chandigarh. 
 
 
