KOLKATA: The foreigner regional registration office ( ) has swung into action to inquire about the ‘inhuman ordeal’ that a Bangladeshi national, married to an Indian, had to face at   immigration hub on Saturday.

 The woman, Arpita Dasgupta, who sought to enter India with a Bangladeshi passport, was in advanced stage of pregnancy and bled profusely while she was made to stand for several hours in the sweltering heat. She was finally rescued by the officer-in-charge of Petrapole police station, who rushed her to   on Saturday afternoon.
 
 A day after the incident, the husband, Ananda Dasgupta, received several calls from FRRO inquiring why she was denied entry into India. The officer inquiring expressed doubt whether the immigration officer at Petrapol immigration hub actually demanded bribe.
 
 Ananda said: “I clearly told him the exact condition of the passport when we travelled to   on March 23. There was no problem with the condition of passport then. Then how can the immigration officer say the passport was damaged during our return by bus. I told him there was an adhesive tape on the passport.”
 
 “The inquiring officer also wanted to meet me in person. Due to the immense mental strain I underwent on Saturday, I was not in a mental frame to meet the officer at that time. But I managed to tell him how badly we were treated and my wife would have died bleeding,” said Ananda.
 
 Ananda added that his wife’s condition has actually deteriorated and he could not take her for ultrasonography. “The doctor has traced the pulse rate, but that is not sufficient to tell the exact condition of the embryo,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, Petrapole police has also started gathering evidence on which a case against the immigration officer will be made. “We will record the statement of the victim once she recovers completely,” said an investigating officer.
 
 On Monday, the victim’s father-in-law, Gautam Dasgupta, wrote to the President of India seeking justice against the inhuman treatment. “We have also tweeted to the Union home minister seeking justice, apart from informing the state and national human rights commission” said Ananda.
 
 Ananda said his faith in the government machinery has not changed.
 
 “When we were going to Dhaka on March 23, a BSF officer arranged wheel chair for my wife and asked me to take care of her and wished us safe journey,” said Ananda.
 
