PATNA: Bihar State Pollution Control Board (BSPCB) has issued show-cause notices to 177 industrial units and closure notices to six such units across the state for violating environmental and pollution norms. Eight industrial units, on the other hand, have been asked to explain why they should not be closed for violating pollution norms.

 Of the 177 industrial units, 163 are brick kilns, eight rice mills, a tobacco unit, a hot mix plant and an oil manufacturing unit. Six industrial units, including two sugar mills, two biofuel units, a rice mill and a food oil unit have been served closure notices for violating pollution norms.
 
 Under Section 33A of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, a bank guarantee of Rs 20 lakh had sought from Riga Sugar Company Limited in Sitamarhi and two other industrial units. Riga Sugar Company Limited was charged with continuously discharging harmful effluents into the Manushmara river. Closure notices have also been issued to Majhaulia Sugar Mill in West Champaran and New Swadeshi Sugar Mill at Narkatiyaganj in West Champaran for polluting the Kohara and Harbora rivers, respectively.
 
 “The Riga Sugar Company has already paid the bank guarantee and promised to mend its ways. The two remaining industrial units have so far not submitted the bank guarantees,” BSPCB public relation officer Birendra Kumar said.
 
 Also, two biofuel units – HPCL Limited, Sugauli (East Champaran) and HPCL Limited, Lauriya (West Champaran) – have been marked under ‘proposed closure notice’. Six more industrial units, including Pawan Stone Works at Tehta in Jehanabad, Ashok Metal and Lohaani Metal Store in Patna have also received closure notices.
 
 “The industrial units which break the environmental norms are first issued show-cause notices. In the second phase, if they do not respond to the first notice, a ‘proposed closure notice’ is issued to them. If the units concerned continue to cause adverse effects to the environment, we issue closure notices to them,” Kumar added. 
 
 
