NASHIK: National Youth Day - birth anniversary of youth icon Swami Vivekananda - was celebrated in   with series of cultural, literary and academic events held at various institutions and universities.

 Schools and colleges also paid tributes to Rajmata Jijau Saheb on her birth anniversary on Friday.
 
 Yashwantrao Chavan Maharashtra Open University (YCMOU) had organized a lecture by veteran industrialist Hanumantrao  , the chairman and managing director of BVG India Limited - the country's largest integrated services company.
 
 Gaikwad explained how thoughts of Swami Vivekananda inspired him to start his own business. "It was Swamiji's message of 'Realize your potential' that inspired me to think big. A village boy who used to roam around on a bicycle dreamt of starting an industry. Today, BVG group is associated with many institutions holding highest esteem in the country," he said.
 
  (MUHS) also paid tributes to Swami Vivekananda and Rajmata Jijau during a function held at their Nashik headquarters. Pro-vice chancellor Dr Mohan Khamgaonkar spoke about Swamiji and Rajmata Jijau.
 
 Swami Vivekananda Vivek Yuva Vichar Week is being organized in the city where all leading colleges from Nashik are participating by organizing various events.
 
 On Friday, the week-long celebration began at Raosaheb Thorat Hall on Gangapur Road. A seminar on 'India in Swamiji's Dreams: Opportunities and challenges' was held where many young orators expressed their views.
 
 On Saturday, V   will host a lecture by Dr Rahul Khade, assistant director of Maharashtra police training Academy at 10am. He will speak on 'Role of Youths in National Security'. Seven leading colleges in Nashik will be hosting seminars at 10 am daily during the week.
 
 Schools also celebrated the day by hosting various events.   (DPS) invited  , senior journalist and former director of  , to participate in an interactive session with students.
 
 Urmilesh answered series of questions asked by students on today's media, nationalism, and role of media in building a good society. 
 
 
