HYDERABAD: Cyberabad police on Tuesday announced the arrest of three persons involved in the brutal killing of a pregnant woman and later chopping her body into pieces, before dumping it in two gunny bags at Botanical Gardens. The victim was identified as Bingee alias Pinky, 32, a resident of   village of Banka district in Bihar.

 The arrested trio were identified as Mamta Jha, 37, the kingpin,  , 75, husband of Mamta and Amarkant Jha, 21, son. All the accused lived at Siddique Nagar, Serilingampally.
 
 
  
  
 
 Vikas Kashyap, both Bingee and Mamta’s paramour, was also  , and is still absconding.
 
 According to police, the victim, was staying with Vikas since January 2017 in Mohana Malti after leaving two kids, Dev,10, and daughter Nandini,5, with her husband Dinesh. “She shifted with Vikas along with her eight-year-old son, Jatin. While, Vikas was staying with the victim, he had an affair with Mamta his neighbour in the village ,” said Commissioner of police  .
 
 After a few months, in-order to get Bingee out from Vikas’s life, Mamta sent Vikas to Hyderabad along with her son, Amarkant, who was already working there in a pub.
 
 After some time ,   and Anil also shifted to Hyderabad to live with Vikas and her son in a rented house at Siddique Nagar.
 
 “Pinky, who was alone in her village, somehow managed to get her lover’s address and reached Hyderabad along with her son, Jatin, 45 days prior to her murder,” said Shandilya.
 
 Trouble broke out when Pinky learnt that Mamata was taking all the earnings of Vikas, who used to sell pani puris in the city to eke out a living.
 
 “So both Mamta and Vikas along with Anil and Amarkant hatched a plan to kill Bingee,” Shandilya added.
 
 On January 27, Mamata was beaten up and kicked on her vital parts, which resulted in her death and they kept the body in their house. The next day Vikas and Amarkant then cut the body with an electrical saw in the bathroom and put them in two bags. On the early hours of January 29, Mamta and Amarkant abandoned the bags near Botanical Garden.
 
