AHMEDABAD: A 50-year-old trader has been accused of raping his daughter over a period of seven year, from when she was just ten years old. The man violated the girl whenever her mother and younger sister stepped out of the house.

 Overwhelmed by the trauma of being violated over and over again, the girl, now a class XI student at a local Hindi-medium school, finally opened the floodgates and told her mother and maternal uncle about the rape. They confronted her father and handed him over to police when he accepted that he had indeed been raping the girl.
 
  police have arrested him for rape and criminal intimidation. “We have arrested the man. He confessed to the crime before us. This is a heinous crime and we will gather strong evidence to have convicted,” said inspector A D   of Meghaninagar police station.
 
 According to the FIR lodged by the girl, the family hails from Udaipur district of  . 
 
 The family has four children. One old sister is married and lives with her husband in   district. The victim’s 21-year-old brother left the house some years ago never to return.
 
 “This left the survivor, her 13-year-old sister, mother and the father in house. The trauma girl’s trauma began when she was kist ten years old and in class four at Udaipur. Her father had already made advances towards her. One day, when her mother left the house after a quarrel to go to her parental house in Rajsamand, at around 11pm, her father woke her up. He then stripped and raped her,” said Gohil.
 
 The father threatened her, saying that if she opened her mouth, he would kill her mother and maternal uncle.
 
  “Her mother returned the next day after things were sorted out between the couple, but the girl could not tell her what she had been through,” said a police source.
 
 Police officials said that after a year, the survivor and her younger sister lived at their paternal aunt’s house for a while. 
 
 “Unable to make a living, the accused moved to Ahmedabad with his wife in 2015 and later brought the girl and her sister to the city. The family lived at a rented house in the Meghaninagar area,” an investigator said.
 
 The FIR mentions that in June 2017, during the summer vacation, while her mother went to drop her elder daughter to her in-laws house in Rajsamand, her father again raped her. “She finally could not take any more and told her sister about her ordeal over the phone,” added a police official.
 
 Gohil said in January 2018, the survivor’s elder sister told her husband, mother and maternal uncle about her father’s crimes. “The man broke down when confronted by them. They had no option but to hand him over to us. We have booked him under the most stringent laws and will see to it that he is convicted,” said Gohil.
 
 
