 
  
  One of the most versatile Indian stars in the industry today, Nawazuddin Siddiqui, was in conversation with veteran actor Annu Kapoor at an event in  , where he spoke about how he spent years being broke, homeless, and accepting one-scene roles in films to achieve his   dream.
  His journey as an actor began at home (Muzaffarpur, UP), though it was much later that he realised he wanted to be a theatre artiste. “We were a family of farmers and my parents weren’t educated. So, any time I attempted to do something, they never understood what I was up to. We were a joint family. Sometimes, mimicking someone from the family was a source of entertainment for us. Though I was studying, I wasn’t sure what I wanted to do. After many years, when I saw a play in the National School of Drama, I realised that’s what I wanted to do. The chemistry between the actor and the audience fascinated me and I decided to join theatre,” he says.
  “Farmers in my village have a lot of spare time. So, everyone gets together to pass time. When I told my aunt I wanted to be an actor, she said, ‘shakal toh dekh le apni’. The perception of an actor in everyone’s mind was a six-foot tall, handsome and fair man, so according to them, acting was out of my league. I was conditioned to believe that acting was not my cup of tea,” he says.
  He talks to us about his first gig ever. “I got a small role to enact at a mock parliament session in college. They were selecting actors. However, since I was a shy person, who would usually sit at the back, I slyly told my friend to mention to our teacher that I would like to act as well. She dismissed him, saying ‘yeh baat hi nahi kar sakta, toh dialogue kya bolega’. I got a few lines, and I practiced them over and over. When my turn came, and I said them, many people appreciated me.”
  He adds that was the moment when he knew he could practice harder and do it even better – “That is when I started believing in myself.”
  He went on to pursue a Masters in Science (Chemistry). “I started looking for a job after graduation, because my parents thought you get a job once you pass out from college. So, I kept looking for a job, and finally found one as a chemist,” he says.
  Nawaz’s passion for acting finally took him to Delhi. “I wasn’t happy at work. I made a friend who was a theatre artiste. I started watching plays with him and slowly began participating in them. Initially, I would get just a few lines. However, I fell in love with theatre, quit my job and plunged into it full time. Then, someone suggested I go to Delhi, because they have Hindi theatre there. While at a urinal in Delhi, I happened to see an ad with a vacancy for a security guard and decided to apply for the job. From 10 am to 5 pm, I would work as a security guard and then I would go to my play rehearsals. I had to find a job because theatre didn’t pay that much,” he says.
  That was in 1991.
  “In two years, I was selected by the National School of Drama where I got a scholarship and my expenses were taken care of. I was told getting admission in NSD is very difficult since they only select 20 students from all over the country. However, since I had already done theatre for a while, I got selected in my first attempt,” he says.
  After passing out from NSD in 1996, he says, “I started participating in street plays, because that paid well. I did over 5,000 shows in different places for the next five-six years. TV wasn’t so popular back then, so companies would approach street play groups for advertisements. We were a group of five-six actors. We would create a story ourselves, enact it ourselves and would earn `50-60 in the evening. Back in the day, having a daily income of `50-60 was a big deal, so I put my heart into it and earned enough money to come to Mumbai,” he says.
  He moved to Mumbai in 2000, and started living in a rented apartment with a bunch of NSD ex-students. “We stayed in a very small room, which had a kitchen and bathroom within. There were five actors sharing the room. After a few months, I exhausted my money and was unable to pay the rent, so I had to leave. I had a senior living in Mumbai, who let me stay with him on the condition that I cook for him in exchange. So, I would make breakfast, lunch and dinner . At the end of six months, I realised that I was becoming more of a cook than an actor. That’s when I left his apartment,” he says.
  “That was the toughest phase of my life. I didn’t have money. I’d stay anywhere. I started getting very weak and suffered from hairfall. I started doing smallish roles in TV serials. Later, I got a few scenes in films as well. After performing one scene in many films for six-seven years, I realised that I need to now start doing at least two scenes. So, I started telling people who called me that I’ll act only if they give me two scenes,” he says.
  “Then, Anurag Kashyap said he would give me three scenes in his film. He was in his struggling days then. He promised me that he would give me bigger roles in bigger films later. I was hopeful about Black Friday, but it was banned. By then, there were many new directors coming up, though they only worked within a limited budget. Since I had worked in Black Friday, I got a major role in Patang, which went to festivals. When my films started going to Cannes film festivals, I started getting better offers like Kahaani, Talaash and  . Eventually, Anurag Kashyap kept his promise, and in a year I had three releases,” he says.
  He says Gangs Of Wasseypur was his first brush with stardom. “I got 200 film scripts after that. There were times when blank cheques were kept on my table. But I didn’t sign any of those films. I am glad I didn’t. The offers were very tempting for someone who came from a middle class background, but by then I was used to sitting idle and not having work. So, I decided to wait for a good film – a film that I wanted to work in,” he says.
  Today, Nawazuddin is essaying the role of Balasaheb Thackeray in an upcoming film, and he says it is his most challenging role so far.
  “I have never worked this hard to essay a particular character before. It’s a bilingual film, in Marathi and Hindi. A month back, I couldn’t speak Marathi at all, so I had to join tuition classes. It was very challenging to learn to speak with the ease and speed that he does.”
  
  
