AICC general secretary   in-charge K C Venugopal admits that contesting polls, which he used to do from schooldays, is no challenge when compared with the responsibility he is now tasked with: ensuring the party coasts to victory.

 
 In an interview to TOI, Venugopal spoke on CM Siddaramaiah’s alleged influence in ticket distribution and the   factor in the upcoming elections.
 
 Excerpts from an interview.
 
 
 
 The CM and the party are confident he will win the Chamundeshwari seat. His presence in North Karnataka as a candidate will give extra boost to the party’s candidates. This is the opinion of not only leaders from North Karnataka but also others in the party.PM   contested from Gujarat and Varanasi in UP during 2014 Lok Sabha polls.
 
 
 
 At that time, Siddaramaiah and we were in the opposition and there were a lot of issues. Now he is the game-changer. The Siddaramaiah of 2006 and 2018 are not the same? He is now contesting as a CM who has taken up a lot of social welfare and developmental activities. There is a positive energy with him.
 
 
 
 Nothing like that. We undertook a lot of exercises, commencing with two-three surveys. The observers’ reports were discussed with each and every senior leader. Nobody can say they were not part of these exercises. I agree with you that there were some differences about the winnability of some candidates. Siddaramaiah has been very accommodative of others’ views. Hence, one cannot say Siddaramaiah got a majority of the tickets for his people and others got less.
 
 
 
 As far as the party is concerned, Ambareesh is an important personality in Karnataka politics. Our understanding is that his presence is good for the party. As an MLA, he has done a lot for the constituency. Due to health issues, he was not able to attend the assembly regularly. You cannot say Ambareesh has not done anything for the constituency.
 
 
 
 Not at all. What is the role of Modi here in Karnataka? This is about good governance and bad governance. This is a fight between a good party and a bad party. This is a fight between Siddaramaiah government and the earlier Yeddyurappa government.
 
 
 
 I am not belittling the personality of the PM, but in the present context, as a person, Modi’s role in Karnataka politics is only that of a party leader. Not any bigger. I am told the BJP is giving the responsibility of taking care of Karnataka to 400 leaders.
 
 
 
 Modi came earlier too. He came to Mysuru, Davanagere and Bengaluru. What Modi delivered in the last four years is a matter of debate now in the country. He misled the people saying he is going to bring about change all over India. We don’t care about Modi now. On the contrary, the Congress in Karnataka has fulfilled 90% of the promises it had made to the people. It is with this confidence and courage that we are going to the polls.
 
 
 
 We don’t see the JD(S) as an enemy because the contest is between the Congress and BJP. The first priority of the JD(S) is to defeat Siddaramaiah, make way for the BJP by cutting into the minority votes. The entire JD(S) machinery is against Siddaramaiah. Just see how many days JD(S) chief H D Kumaraswamy is spending in Chamundeshwari. It’s a clear case of match-fixing by the BJP.
 
