CHENNAI: The   on Thursday slammed the   MPs in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha for not gheraoing Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the boiling Cauvery issue. Instead, they were only threatening to commit suicide, said DMK principal secretary S Duraimurugan on Thursday. He said the AIADMK had failed to pressure the Centre to set up the Cauvery Management Board as both chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and deputy chief minister   were afraid of meeting Modi and demanding Tamil Nadu’s rights. They were more keen on protecting their posts, he said.

 “What is the point in stalling both the Houses every day? Instead, all the 50 MPs must have gheraoed the residence of Prime Minister. At the most, they would have been arrested,” Duraimurugan told reporters. He said Tamil Nadu government was still toeing the idea of pleading before the Centre.
 
 “Will a government wait till the last minute to decide on the future course of action? That is what our chief minister has done in the case of Cauvery. If the Prime Minister had refused to meet an all-party delegation, then at least the CM and deputy CM must have camped in New Delhi and met Modi,” said Duraimurugan.
 
 He said filing a contempt petition in the SC against the Centre for not constituting the Cauvery management board would not help the state. “If the state government files a contempt case against the Centre, the case will go on for many more months. Meanwhile, the Centre also wants to go to the court seeking clarification on the order. Why didn’t the Centre seek the clarification immediately after the order was delivered by the SC?” asked Duraimuragan.
 
  president   said both the state and Central governments had cheated Tamil Nadu farmers on the Cauvery issue. “Congress will soon consult other alliance parties and call for a one-day bandh on the Cauvery issue. We will prove sections in the state are together on the Cauvery issue,” said Thirunavukkarasar in a statement.
 
  founder S Ramadoss, in a statement, said Tamil Nadu people would not pardon the state and Centre for the delay in constituting the Cauvery management board. “The state government and the Centre must be thinking that the people will forget the issue and forgive them. Both the governments will have to face the wrath of the people,” he said.
 
 
