 president Rahul Gandhi may formally launch campaign for the 2019 Lok Sabha election from north   later this year, officiating state party president   tells TOI’s Piyush Kumar Tripathi in an interview. Excerpts: 

 
 
 He is a down-to-earth person and believes in working at the grassroots level. I am glad he agreed to participate in the first leg of Amantran Yatra, which is aimed at reviving the bond with old party workers across the state.
 
 
 
 
 We are already in poll mode with the launch of Amantran Yatra as we want to strengthen the organizational structure of the party. Thereafter, we are mulling to hold a mega rally of party president Rahul Gandhi, probably in north Bihar, later this year.
 
 
 
 I agree the party is weak at panchayat level and district presidents at many places are holding the post for quite a long time. We want to strengthen the party at district and block level, so that the message of the party leadership is conveyed to the masses.
 
 
 
 
 Though it is premature to say anything on this, but we don’t want to depend on the alliance partners. Alliances change as well. We are strengthening our party structure to increase our bargaining power. I would like to make clear that we will not go to the elections as ‘B or C team’ with our alliance partners. 
 
 
 
 
 Party is intact. It is unfortunate for us as well as for Choudhary that he left the party. But he will not be able to make any damage. The MLAs about whom he claims to be on his side have been associated with the party for the past many decades. They may be having personal relations with Choudhary, but they are loyal to the party and not even think of leaving it.
 
 
 
 Nothing is predictable and everything is possible in politics. I have said on the issue of recent communal clashes in Bihar that Nitish has a secular image and he should maintain it by taking a stand. Tejashwi is also an open-minded leader and I believe he will also agree if Nitish wishes to come back to us. Our rivalry is not personal, it is based on ideologies.
 
 
  
 
 I never knew about my appointment as officiating president nor do I thing about being made permanent. I do no work with an attitude of being an ad hoc person, rather I always intend to fulfil the responsibilities given to me by party president Rahul ji in the most earnest manner.
 
 
