LUCKNOW: The last year had been too severe on the health of Lucknowites who got to breathe ‘good’ quality air for 17 days only. Though the high air pollution issue hogged news headlines only in the month of November, the air quality in the state capital had been of ‘very poor’ and ‘severe’ quality for 76% days of the year, says a report by   (CEED).

 An analysis of Air Quality Index (AQI) data released daily by   (CPCB) by CEED further revealed that city recorded high pollution levels for 61consecutive days in 2017 with November being the most polluted month followed by December and July the least. Analysis reveals that air quality was ‘satisfactory’ only for 19% of days in 2017 with AQI ranging between 51to 100 — enough to cause minor breathing discomfort to sensitive people. AQI is average of values of pollution levels recorded from various locations in city. For seven days in November, city was amongst most polluted in country figuring under ‘severe’ air quality category with very high pollution level that affects even healthy people and impacts those with existing diseases.
 
 
 
 
 Pollution levels were seven times higher than the national safety limits with AQI over 400. The state capital also attained the dubious distinction of twice being the most polluted city in the country in November.
 
 
  
 
 Lalbagh was the most polluted location in the city among the three monitored by CPCB. The annual mean PM2.5 concentration here was 130 microgram per cubic metre of air followed by Talkatora with 129 and   with 104. “Burning of wood, continuous construction and heavy vehicular load deteriorates air quality of the city. In November and December, air pollution level spiked due to non-dissipation of particulate matter,” said   director Alok Dhawan.
 
 He said that besides particulate matter PM10 and PM 2.5, traces of ultra and superfine particles were also monitored in Lucknow’s air by IITR. “There is a need for remedial measures to improve Lucknow’s air. These could include halting construction work and reducing automobile load,” he added.
 
 “High pollution levels in the city throughout the year is a serious concern. The state government should chalk out an affirmative Clean Air Action Plan with a time-bound implementation to control pollution,” said CEED CEO Ramapati Kumar.
 
 
  
 
 
