NEW DELHI: All   in the country, including   and  , were supposed to get   and   by   

 While the work is on in different states, experts believe that unless there is real-time tracking and monitoring of these vehicles, simply installing GPS devices would be an exercise in futility. 
 
 Suren Uppal, a Supreme Court lawyer associated with NGO Rahat, said it has been more than five years since the Nirbhaya case shook the nation’s conscience but public transport is still not a safe option for women across the country. “The tragic episode was followed by public outcry but there has been no action and just mere words,” Uppal said.
 
 “Even if GPS is installed, there is no recognised government mechanism or backend system in place to track these vehicles or respond to emergency calls,” he said.
 
 Professor Sewa Ram of the transport planning department of School of Planning and Architecture said the country needs control rooms with a proper network for effective use of GPS technology.
 
  “When it comes to panic buttons, the question arises of the accessibility of these panic buttons unless one is placed at every seat of a bus. Apart from these measures, there should also be CCTV cameras in buses, which should be linked with a control room where the feed can be monitored in real-time,” Ram said. 
 
 Dr Kamaljeet Soi, chairman of NGO Rahat said, “A large section of working women use public transport to commute and these vehicles need to be tracked. We also need to have control centres for tracking vehicles, which should be integrated with the police helpline so that in case of an emergency the vehicle can be easily tracked. GPS in vehicles without monitoring is like having a pistol without bullets.” 
 
 Kalpana Vishwanathan, co-founder of SafetyPin, a women’s safety application, wondered about the efficacy of the concept. “The idea of tracking is a good one in principle but we have millions of vehicles in the country. How it is going to be actually carried out is not clear,” she said, adding that it needs to be ensured that a driver cannot turn off a device. 
 
 Vishwanathan said that the idea hasn’t been thought through. “There is a rush to have technology fixes without thinking it through. We are running to install CCTV cameras without thinking about what we are going to do about the footage and how effective it is in preventing crime,” she added.
 
 
