DEHRADUN: The picturesque little town of   in   district was wracked by communal violence, for the first time in years, on Friday following a rumour that spread on social media that a minor local girl had been gangraped by boys belonging to the minority community.
 
 Shops belonging to members of the other community in Agastyamuni market were singled out and burnt by a mob as angry protesters led by right-wing groups hit the streets of the quiet hill town.
  
  
 Heavy police force has been rushed to the town to ensure peace and a manhunt launched to nab the culprits.
  
  
 Ashok Kumar, additional director general of police (law and order), said, “A few people caused the unrest in Agastyamuni town. It was triggered by a fake message circulating on WhatsApp which claimed that a 10-year-old girl had been raped. No such incident ever took place while mischievous elements tried to flare up the situation.”
  
  
 Local residents said they hadn’t seen violence on such a scale in the quaint hill town in decades. “I have been living here for over two decades and I never seen such an incident taking place. People here are largely peace loving, or so I thought. I don't know who flared up the unrest here. Strict action should be taken against such hooligans,” said Rahul Rawat, a local trader.
  
  
 District magistrate Mangesh Ghildiyal and superintendent of police   later made an appeal to the people in a video message that they should not pay heed to rumours and fake message on social media.
  
  
 According to senior police officials, the accused used the picture of a couple in a compromising position along with the post and claimed it to be the gangrape of the minor girl.
  
 “People who indulged in violence and circulated the message have both been identified on the basis of CCTV footages and phone surveillance and cases have been registered against them,” the   said, adding that the situation is fully under control now.
  
  
 They have been booked under IPC’s section 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot) and 505 (public mischief) and section 66 of the Information Technology Act.
