LUDHIANA: Punjab’s local bodies minister   admitted it has not been easy to curtail corruption in his department. However, he sounded optimistic and said the satellite mapping technology can help in tackling the menace.

 Sidhu was here to inaugurate the national conference on ‘role of geo-spatial technologies to bridge the rural-urban divide’, which is being organised by   and   at   (PRSC).
 
 While addressing a gathering of media persons, Sidhu said, “It’s been difficult for us to control the level of corruption prevailing in the local bodies department for the past several years. But with the use of satellite mapping technology, the menace of unauthorised constructions and encroachments will come down to some extent.”
 
 Sidhu claimed ‘satellite mapping’ is the only way to keep a tab on 8,500 illegal colonies which have mushroomed across the state — mostly during the Badal government tenure — and punish tax evaders and officials, who gave a platform to such offenders.
 
 “In a recent survey related to encroachment on government property or illegal colonies across the state, we came to know about properties worth thousands of crores which was encroached by several powerful persons with the help of officials of the department. Satellite mapping technology will not only help map all illegal constructions in the state, but also generate huge revenue through collection of all types of taxes from such illegal buildings, which usually go unchecked in the absence of a strong mechanism,” said the minister.
 
 He also added, “The Punjab government will sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with PRSC to take a step forward in this matter. The cabinet minister appreciated the presentation made by Sandeep Tripathi, CEO of Odisha Remote Sensing Centre, in which he said how remote sensing technology was helping the government in each sector.”
 
 Elaborating on the subject, PRSC director   stated, “The local bodies department will soon get help in the form of satellite mapping and drone mapping, which is already going on in Odisha and other southern states. We are covering almost every district, providing a transparent mechanism to the government to overcome the problem of mushrooming illegal colonies across the state. Still, the local bodies department lacks proper technology related to mapping the land covered by several offenders, and it will provide the exact data and show a mirror to tax evaders.” 
 
 
