HYDERABAD: In what could cheer residents reeling under a severe cash crunch, ATMs will be filled twice a day depending on cash supplies. Also, cash availability in ATMs which is at a low of 52% will go up to 75%.

 The cash management committee (CMC), comprising 10 major banks, took these crucial decisions after a meeting here on Wednesday. In another key decision,   has decided to monitor equitable distribution of currency to banks in coordination with Reserve Bank of India. Banks have also been told to furnish cash balances and ATM availability daily to CMC.
 
  
  
 
  (SBI) chief general manager of Hyderabad circle J   told TOI: “We discussed steps to augment cash supplies and stop accelerated withdrawals. All banks, both in private and public sector, have been told to ramp up availability in ATMs with available cash. They will have to take steps to move cash from other cash-surplus locations from outside the state. Each bank will have to furnish cash balances and ATM availability daily to this committee.”
 
 He said the CMC will meet once a week and review the situation till normalcy is restored. CMC will work with RBI regional office to distribute cash available with RBI among banks in an equitable manner. “We expect the situation to ease in next two to three days. Cash is also trickling in from the local RBI office. We are loading ATMs twice a day,” Swaminathan said.
 
 Currently, cash availability ranges from 50-55%. “We are hoping to increase it to 75 per cent. Even during normal days, availability of cash is around 80-90% and at least 10 per cent ATMs do not function due to system errors and other technical reasons,” he explained.
 
 Claiming that withdrawal of cash was more because of festival season, he confirmed that fear of shortage has also resulted in accelerated withdrawals leading to more scarcity. “Too many people are rushing to ATMs at the same time to withdraw cash. Petrol pump owners and other utilities who take cash from customers are not depositing in banks. Now, we are requesting them to bring cash back into circulation,” he said.
 
 He went on to say that RBI is printing ₹500 notes and they have enough reserves in their chests and vaults. “They have also allowed inter-state movement from surplus states to deficient states,” he added.
 
