KOLKATA: The bashing up of a private chartered bus driver by auto operators at the   intersection has laid bare the problem of non-availability of transport for Sector V employees late at night.

 According to police sources, the assailants noticed the bus driver picking up passengers from Technopolis over the last few days. On Monday, they protested, which led to an argument. “The two men beat up the bus driver and forced him to ask the passengers to deboard. The bus driver was so traumatized that he locked his vehicle’s door from inside and waited for the police to arrive,” said an investigating officer.
 
 The police have now decided to speak to both   ( ) and the transport department explaining how these unregulated autos and the rush at night was aiding some drivers (who are not route regulars) in maximising profits.
 
 The Electronic Complex police have arrested two auto drivers — identified as Biswajit Naik and Sanajay Malakar — for allegedly assaulting the driver on Monday around 9.30pm.
 
 Daily commuters who travel to Sector V for work said there was a need for regularised routes for autorickshaws in Sector V along with designated stops. Tamal Pal, an IT executive working in Sector V, said, “Autos and buses will co-exist, because there are dedicated passengers for both forms of public transport. Many people prefer autorickshaws as these can ferry them quickly. However, Designated auto stands must be set up.”
 
 Pal added that auto drivers have divided the zones among themselves. Autos servicing Technopolis, for example, do not pick up passengers from College More. Tathagata Mukherjee, another IT major employee in Sector V, said government buses comprise around 50% of those plying to Technopolis.
 
 “But buses from   and   and heading towards Gariahat, Park Circus and Ultadanga become scarce after 9pm. The last bus on route S3W towards   leaves Amity University around 7pm,” he said.
 
 Officials of the NDITA conceded that there are no designated auto stands in Sector V. “The issue would be looked into,” an official said. Transport department officials said two recent policy changes will ease travelling from the IT hub at night. “A policy for autos is being prepared. In addition, the government buses providing night service from Howrah will ply through Sector V before terminating at New Town. The service was introduced on Wednesday night,” an official said.
 
 Sector V Stakeholders Association vice-president   said, “Such incidents should not occur in Sector V, which is showcased as the state’s IT hub. Though there is no specific auto stand in Sector V, running autos ferry passengers. We shall discuss this issue in our forum,” he said.
 
 
 
  
 
