COIMBATORE: Many of us romanticise the city weather by calling the haze in early morning and night hours mist or fog. But, the right word for it is smog—a mix of fog and a layer of polluted air—said researchers at the the   at  , who have also found a solution to the malady–trees.

 “The situation in the city is becoming worse due to vehicular and industrial pollution,” said  , an associate professor of  . “For the last two years, we have been collecting pollution levels at various locations in the city using a mobile ambient air quality monitor. For every pollutant, we have also found specific varieties of trees that could be planted,” he told TOI.
 
  
  
 
 It has been scientifically proven that trees absorb pollutants and are the best bet against them, said A Balasubramanian, professor and head of the Silviculture department. “We have prepared a detailed proposal that includes a list of trees that can be planted for specific pollutants present at various locations in the city. We plan to tie up with the city corporation and plant the saplings under the smart city project,” he said.
 
 The researchers said that while trees use carbon-dioxide for photosynthesis, they also absorb other pollutants. “If we plant them at highly polluted locations, we can help reduce pollutant levels in the area,” said Prasanthrajan. “We conducted tests at the forest college campus and found that the trees successfully reduce pollutants. We will make recommendations to the civic body for these specific varieties to be planted along roads,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, corporation officials said they also plan an extensive plantation drive in reserve sites to improve air quality. “The city’s climate has changed in the last few decades. To bring it back, bio-remedies are the best bet,” said an official.
 
 The researchers also used data from the 30 air quality monitors in the city, corporation officials said. “The researchers are working our various bio-remedies for water and air pollution inside the city limits. They are also developing pollutant resistant trees that could be planted on the lake bund,” an official added.
 
 
