Ludhiana: City-based women athlete   (40) is a shining example for those female athletes, who leave their sports activities after getting married, as she has not only secured a gold medal in discus throw at the 39th National Masters Athletic Championship in the 35-40 age-group, but has also qualified for world athletic championship that will be held in Spain in September. 

 Rajwinder Kaur, who is gearing up for her first international-level championship, is happy with her decision to continue with her sports activities even after getting married to another city-based sports player. 
 
 While speaking to Times of India over her recent success, Rajwinder said, “After marriage I continued with mu sports for a few years, but after becoming a mother my responsibility towards the family increased and I decided to leave the game. I took a break of at least eight years from 2005 to 2013. During these years, I felt that I was missing something and I also developed thyroid problem. Later, my doctor suggested me to again take up sports. In 2013, my husband forced me to start practicing and by that time as my both kids were also grown up, I decided to go back to the stadium,” she said. 
 
 “I am happy with my performances in the recently concluded 39 national-level athletic meet as I clinched gold medal as well saved berth for my first international tournament, I want to become a source of inspiration to those women, who leave sports activities after getting married,” she added. 
 
 Rajwinder stated that she had entered sports when she was in Class VI and since then she has participated in several tournaments both at state and national level, but never got a chance to participate at an international championship, which was her aim. 
 
 “Here I met SS Pannu, a qualified coach of Punjab Institute of Sports. He has improved my performance level. The way he teaches is something different. Under his guidance, I am going to achieve my ream,” she said. 
 
 Before participating in Spain, Rajwinder will take part in the first National Masters Games to be held in Chandigarh from April 3-8.
 
 
