JAIPUR: Despite Cairn India and Focus energy producing   in Rajasthan, the footprint of the green and cheaper energy is almost non-existent in the desert state. But that is set to change. The   (PNGRB) is offering 12 districts (six geographical areas) in the state for bidding to build networks and infrastructure for making available city gas distribution (CGD) and setting up CNG stations.

 “Under 9th round bidding, 12 districts will get CGD and CNG station infrastructure. This will cover almost three crore population in the state,” said  , managing director of PNGRB at a roadshow in Jaipur aimed at inviting investors to participate in the bidding.
 
 Sarraf said the bidding closes on July 10 and the winning bidders will be awarded the projects in October this year. “In the 9th CGD bidding round, 86 GAs spread over 22 states and union territories are offered which is the highest in any round and it covers 29% of India’s population. They have been identified keeping in view their proximity to gas pipelines,” added Sarraf.
 
 The oil ministry is targeting to increase the share of energy sourced from gas to 15% by 2040 from the current 6.2% against the global share of 24%. In fact, Rajasthan’s neighbouring state Gujarat gets 25% energy from gas. Natural gas in India is consumed across various sectors with CGD accounting for 17% of total gas consumption. But the government set a target to connect 10 million households to   by 2020.
 
 The successful bidders will be required to lay pipelines, set up CGD infrastructure and CNG station and retail natural gas. Sarraf said the winning companies will be given eight years to build, operate and provide the services.
 
 “Only in   GAs will be given 10 year time for the operation. Since the companies would be investing huge sums of money, the duration of 8-10 years of exclusive marketing rights is necessary for them to recover the money,” added Darraf.
 
 It is expected that for each district, an investment of Rs 300-400 crore is required to build the infrastructure.
 
 In the last eight rounds, 91 CGD networks have been awarded to 36 entities covering 19% of the country’s population and 11% of geographical area. It has benefitted 42 lakh domestic consumers, 33000 industrial and commercial establishments and now providing CNG to 30 lakh vehicles through 1,300 stations.
 
 
