Kerala is surely one of the most literate and progressive states in the country but it is also a land that is steeped in traditions, some of which are rooted in faith and therefore not always finding favour with the rationally minded. These rituals, thought to be a mode to seek blessings from various deities, are increasingly being questioned because the original purpose behind these practices has either become outdated or unclear with the passage of time. 
One such practice, the   ritual at the Attukal Bhagavathy Temple, was dubbed a crime against children by none other than DGP (Prisons) R Sreelekha recently. It has sparked a controversy and ignited a debate. We take a look at some of the unusual ones that are followed by devotees in Kerala.
 
 
 
 
 It is a ritual observed across the temples in South Kerala in the Malayalam month of Kumbham (February-March) where Goddess Shakthi’s various forms such as Durga and Kali are worshipped. Parents make boys below 12 years practise the ritual at these temple festivals in which the boys are believed to represent the wounded soldiers of Goddess Durga. 
 On the third day of the festival, the boys receive the prasadam from the temple priest and start a seven-day penance to purify their body and mind. During this phase, they have to adhere to physical and mental discipline such as sleeping on mats, observing strict diet and staying within the temple. Besides these, the boys have to prostrate before the deity 1008 times after their morning and evening nivedyams. On the final day of the festival, their bodies are pierced with a silver wire. Later they join the procession and circumambulate the sanctum sanctorum. The ceremony ends by pulling out the pierced wire.
 
 
 
 
 
 This ritual is observed in various Lord Muruga temples of South Kerala. A spear or vel is pierced through the cheeks or tongue of the devotees who also carry a kavadi during the Thaipooyam festival in Kerala.
 It is observed to commemorate the gifting of a vel to Lord Muruga by his mother, goddess Parvathi, to vanquish a demon. The devotees, who include children, undergo 41 days of penance to perform kavadi as per the rituals.
 It is believed that the devotee who performs this ritual is cleansed of evil thoughts and deeds through the painful act of self-punishment, just the way Murugan vanquished the demon. Young boys get their bodies peirced with the vel to appease the god. The length of the vel may vary from centimetres to a few feet. 
 
 
 
 This is another form of kavadi performed by the devotees by walking on a pit of burning coals. The devotees, after observing a fast, perform the ritual as part of the kavadi offerings to Lord Muruga. Teenagers also do a fire walk to fulfil their pledge to god. It is believed that their feet won’t get burnt if they follow their ritual with ardent faith and devotion.
 
 
 
 
 A popular ritual observed at Sree Bhadrakali Temple, Kollamkode, in Kanyakumari district, which borders Thiruvananthapuram, the thookkam is an offering to the goddess on the Meena Bharani day festival.
 Married couples form the major devotees, who offer Thookkam for their children who are less than a year old. On the third day of the festival, the thookkakar are appointed by those who do the offering and they are then made to undergo a medical check-up before the ritual.
 They are instructed to reside in the temple premises until the thookkam ends. The babies are wrapped in a cloth with a protective anti-slippery shield. They are then tied and handed over to the respective registered thookkakkar who is tied to the villu (long pole of the chariot). He is also made to wear a safety belt. The chariot may hold two to four thookkakkars. They along with the babies are lifted on the chariot to a height of more than 30 feet. The chariot circumambulates the temple and the people are then brought down. Though there are no casualties till date, once a baby slipped out of a thookkakaran but did not sustain any injury. Thanks to the goddess, they say!
 
 
 
 
 This unique offering is performed by the devotees to appease goddess Kali. It is mostly observed in temples in Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam districts. The Garudan Thookkam at Elamkavu Devi temple at Vadayar in Vaikkom is the most popular. The devotees are pierced at their back with hooks and are made to hang like eagles from a shaft. They are then taken around the temple for a procession along with chenda melam. According to the myth, Lord Vishnu sent Garudan to quench the thirst of goddess Kali as she could be pacified only after drinking drops of Garuda’s blood.
 
 
 
 
 
 Circumcision popularly known as chela karmam or sunnath in Kerala is a practice observed by the Muslim community. According to the beliefs, circumcision is a matter of cleanliness, purification and control over one’s self. Usually reserved for boys, the practice is also said to be observed among females in some parts of Kerala and it has received mixed responses from those in the community.
 K Jamida, state general secretary of the  , says: “It’s shocking that it is also forced on females. It is female genital mutilation. In Kozhikode there was a Sunnath Clinic which was closed down last month. There is no such practice prescribed in Quran. In Islam, there are manuscripts called Hadis which were written 200 years after the time of Prophet Muhammad. And in that there is an illogical mention of this sunnath” she says. 
 Jamida also reveals that the practice still prevails in the society though WHO strongly urges health professionals not to perform such procedures as it has no health benefits for girls and women. “Female circumcision is still practised secretly in Kozhikode, Malappuram and Thiruvananthapuram. This is an unhygienic practice which may even cause death due to bleeding. It is said that circumcision in females is done to curb the sexual desire in them. The procedure is done on girls between the age of four and puberty. Even babies who are just seven days old aren’t spared. When I was blinded by religious beliefs, I was also forced to perform sunnath on my nine-month-old son, years ago. And I regret it now. It is high time that we stop these uncivilised practices done in the name of religion,” she says.
 
 
