At a time when love is delightfully driven by choices, deliciously indulged by the chase and decidedly open-ended, Valentine’s Day becomes undoubtedly the one day in the calendar year when lovers can unabashedly celebrate their love with that special someone (other days can be open for that not so special everyone).

 If the way to a man’s heart is through his stomach, then the way to a woman’s heart is dining at an exotic restaurant with an enchanting ambience. And while you’re at it, walk behind her, hold doors, tell her she is beautiful or, better still, make her feel beautiful (diamonds always work) make her laugh, be confident and submissive, take charge and let go, be consistent yet spontaneous, and always order a luscious glass (or bottle, if you are really committed to the character, seriously want to get lucky or with me) of Pinot Noir.
 
 It may come to you as no surprise at all that I am single and officially the oldest spinster in the family. For my family, I am well over my fertility stage as well (let’s say in my late 20s). At this point, they have resigned to the fact that my wedding might be a distant dream. My grandma got hitched at 12 and my ma at 17, to whoever was presented to them, selected by family — matching education, family background with a higher or astronomically higher financial status. It was called an arranged marriage with all the added benefits (diamonds and designer wear) which organically and obviously evolved into love.
 
 A great achievement for their generation, and a greater achievement for mine, for holding out till we have swirled out all the potential hook-ups to ‘wine up’ with the perfect pin-up gentleman (with the perfect date, dating etiquette, boudoir personality, emotional and mental compatibility) endorsed by some of the most profound literature of my time — a fashion magazine.
 
 I might not have a man right now, but in my mind, I have it all! The perfect gentleman might sound like an oxymoron and this type of man might be as fictional as my photo-shopped bikini bod profile pic, but feminism is always optional or overrated. In a digitally-connected world, a single girl can now choose and chase from a catalogue of perfect gentlemen available online. Such as:
 
 
  As much as I like my man to worship me and my signature moves while calling to god for creating the perfect wholesome, knock-able girl in me, I always run from this type of man because a real man will never brand his religion. Faith and religion is always personal and private, unless, of course, you are  !
 
 
  The rise of the metrosexual man has posed a greater threat to India than inflation, population, low GDP, rising food prices, global warming and  . This has not only led to a serious intellectual deficit, but also monetary deficit. Stop gyming and start working, man. Money can buy my love.
 
 
  If this has something to do with size, please note my emergency contact number.
 
 
  An Indian guy has no choice in this matter. So, if he is in love or obsessed with his family — run, jump, fly or relocate, not to Boko Haram, hopefully, but there is a better chance they are less fanatical than our families.
 
 
  This character has gone extinct ever since   was taken off the market and President Barrack (like   calls him) replaced by a clown.
 
 
  Please! Can you just shut-up and listen?
 
 
  …
 
 
  ….
 
 As it stands (pun intended) love might seem like a glass half-empty, half-refillable kind of a deal, with most men online trying to out cool the others with regard to meals, brands, dates, ideas, fantasies and holiday destinations, all of which he can or cannot afford. I will never know because authentic online profiles are as common as personal boundary is to parents, honesty is to politicians or commitment is to the millennials. So, it may come as no surprise at all that the most action I have got in the past decade are the cyber pokes online. Tchin-tchin!
 
 —  , by invitation
 
