MUMBAI: In an order by consent, the   on Tuesday sent a dispute between the   ( ) and Singapore Stock Exchange ( ), much tracked by investors, to arbitration.

 Recently retired chief justice of Punjab and Haryana high court, Shiavax Vazifdar, has been appointed as the sole arbitrator. The HC also directed SGX not to launch its proposed Nifty-based new derivatives product till the arbitrator passes interim orders in the dispute. SGX can continue with the existing licensed product, however, under an agreement it shares with the NSE. The NSE and SGX have a business relation since 18 years.
 
 Indian exchanges, in an attempt to curb migration of traders, had decided to bar overseas bourses from trading in Nifty derivatives. India Index Services and Products (IISL), a NSE subsidiary that provides index-related services, had eight days ago dragged Singapore Exchange Derivatives Trading to the HC to prevent it from launching “an unlicensed financial surrogate product” from June 4. The order, passed by a vacation bench of justice S J Kathaalla, said that if the SGX wants to issue a fresh circular introducing fresh products relatable to its April 11 circular, it will have to give a notice of seven days to IISL.
 
 Justice Kathawalla had earlier stayed the SGX from launching its proposed Nifty-based product and adjourned the hearing to May 31 after both sides failed to agree to terms for sending the dispute to an arbitrator.
 
 On Tuesday, however, both sides did agree and the arbitrator was appointed. “This order is in supersession and substitution of all earlier orders passed,” said the HC. The current licensed product uses the Nifty 50 index. SGX is not licensed to use this index for the proposed product.
 
 In February, IISL terminated, with effect from August 12, 2018, its existing licence contract with the SGX. The NSE alleged that the SGX attempted to breach a licence agreement of 2014, twice amended, in 2016 and 2017. On April 11, the SGX announced a launch of three new proposed derivative contracts called SGX India Futures, SGX Options and SGX Indian Bank Futures. The NSE said that the proposed products by the SGX amount to “alleged misappropriation of its proprietary creation, Nifty 50, one of two most well-known share indices of India”.
 
 All disputes connected to the licence agreement will now be referred to the arbitrator. The HC order set out a proposed timeline for the arbitration and said he should decide a plea for interim relief in the matter, by June 16.
 
 An NSE spokesperson said later, “The NSE remains committed to providing open and ease of access to Indian markets for international investors and to facilitate an orderly transition of liquidity from the SGX to Indian markets onshore or in NSE IFSC in GIFT City.” 
 
 
