BENGALURU: Women play a significant role in the growth story of Karnataka, one of India’s leading industrialised states. Data shows that nearly 250 of every 1,000 micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in   are owned and run by women, much higher than the national average of 190.

 This means that of the 20.5 lakh MSMEs in Karnataka, according to industry figures, 5.1 lakh are owned by women. Interestingly, of the 50-odd lakh employees in the   sector in the state, 40% or 20 lakh are women, data with the ministry of MSMEs shows.
 In another 20 years, these facts won’t surprise you. Then, there will be as many women as men running enterprises in the state, and hopefully across India,” says  , state president, Confederation of Women Entrepreneurs.
 
 Rupa thinks women in Karnataka still have a long way to go. “There’s a lot of help coming from the government. But things are not easy in what’s still a gender-biased society. There are enough windows of opportunity and women should go, grab them,” she adds. From packaged pickle and masala powder to finished garments, and from manufacturing spares for machines to running agriculture related firms, the unbridled entrepreneurial spirit has given Karnataka womena clear edge.
 
 Usha Prasad, who is on the verge of starting her own manufacturing firm, says: “I am confident of running my own business because there are enough schemes to back up women entrepreneurs. But I couldn’t say the same thing about seven years ago, when I first thought about it. Not that these schemes are foolproof, but if you have the zeal, there are opportunities.”
 
 Reshma Gurusiddappa, MD of readymade garments unit  , is currently getting her business done through outsourcing. Federation of Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industry president  , while arguing that MSMEs are the largest employers, says: “The increasing women participation and ownership in the field is a sign of a stronger future and we believe this number would grow further.”
 
 Karnataka lags behind almost all the northeastern states, most of which have more than 30% of the enterprises run by women proprietors, and even   and   fare better than the state.
 
