VARANASI: In order to counter the 'red' threat from   groups a 'green' brigade of women has emerged in the naxalite-affected   of UP. Dressed in all green, these women will not only help the police in putting an effective check on naxalite activities but also fight against domestic abuse and social evils like gambling and liquor addition.

 
 The women's green groups in 10 villages were launched by the Mirzapur SP   at function organized at Dhanseria village in Rajgarh block on Sunday. Tiwari gave them important tips how to control crime in their respective villages. A total of 150 trained women, 15 from each village, have joined the green brigade to help police. This experiment will be replicated further in other villages.
 
 "Mainly they will focus on the elimination of social ills like gambling and   prevalent in their villages. Besides, they will also be an important source of information about any abnormal or naxalite activities in their respective areas,” said the SP adding that initially the green groups have been formed in 10 villages in Madihan police station area. There are 106 naxalite affected villages in Mirzapur district.
 
 The 10 villages, where Green Groups have been formed, include Bhawanipur, Rajgarh, Sarson, Simri, Hinauta, Bhiti, Rampur, Kudi, Dadra and Nadihar. A Varanasi based organization of youths -Hope Welfare Trust is behind this initiative. They had been working in Mirzapur villages for last three months to convince the women about their new role, said the key member of Hope Welfare Trust Divyanshu Upadhyaya.
 
 The students from several academic institutions including Banaras Hindu University and Mahatma Gandhi Kashi Vidyapith joined hands for social works forming the Trust in January 2015. They succeeded in forming women's green group in Khusiyari village in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Kashi constituency to make the village drug and liquor-free. Later, similar groups also came into existence in some other villages to motivate people for social cause. They also took active part in motivating people for voting during 2017 assembly polls. Their success story caught the attention of Mirzapur police. 
 
 
