PUNE: Officially, winter ends in February in India. However, a   starts after January 15 with the northward movement of earth in the celestial sphere after winter solstice on December 22. 

  begins to experience warm days around mid-January but this year, winter in the state will linger well into February. 
 
 While  , may witness increasing   from February 8 till 14, Maharashtra is likely to see below normal day and night temperatures during this period, an extended range forecast by   (IMD) has said.
 
 Both day and night temperatures would be one to two degrees celsius less than the normal in parts of the state. Weather models show a sharper dip in day temperatures in Maharashtra between February 8 and 14.
 
 The extended range forecast showed that between February 1 and 7, parts of the state may witness below normal night temperatures, but above normal day temperatures.
 
 Experts said between February 8 and 14, the minimum temperature in the state may be normal to slightly below normal, but it is the maximum temperature that is showing a dip across most parts of the country during this period, more so over parts of Maharashtra. 
 
 “From February 8, days are expected to be cooler due to cloudy skies, Rain is also indicated on February 7 for parts of the state. Whenever the skies are cloudy during the day, temperatures tend to dip as less solar radiation reaches the earth’s surface,” a weather expert said.
 
 Another meteorologist said temperatures would begin rising in many parts of the country. “ Day temperatures have already begun to rise in Maharashtra with the easterlies,” he said. Easterlies are moist winds that blow from the southern peninsula, and tend to cause an increase in temperature.
 
 “A little clouding is expected during the next few days, followed by isolated rain, so weather may warm up a bit. We see some moisture incursion after the next one or two days. Night temperatures in Maharashtra may only be slightly below normal, but the day temperatures may fall from February 8 owing to cloudy conditions,” he said.
 
 
