The episode of Kumkum Bhagya and Kundali Bhagya Mahasangam begins with Karan assuming that Prithvi was wanting to tease him by showing engagement card. Both of them pass comments and get annoyed at each other.

 Prithvi challenges him to ruin their engagement while Karan promises to do the same. Karan asks Prithvi to leave his room when he misbehaves. Meanwhile, in Kumkum   (Who is Simonika's lookalike) asks Pragya to transfer her house and office on to her name. Pragya says she needs time. Simonika gives her the property transfer papers and says once Pragya signs on it, she will prove   innocent in court. Pragya thinks of  , Dasi and others.
 
 
 Pragya comes home.   comes there and holds her as she stumbles. Pragya cries hugging her and says she needs her support. Pragya says that it is difficult to manage everything all alone. Sarla boosts her morale. Sarla says Pragya's kumkum shines on her forehead and that she needs to do everything just for Abhi. 
 
 
 Sarla says everybody can stay together happily even if they don’t have a house. Dadi too tries to lift Pragya's morale and says that she can get upset, but not accept defeat. Pragya says that she asked for answer, but they showed her a clear way out. She vows to get Abhi out of the mess.
 
 
 In Kundali Bhagya, Sherlyn is speaking to Prtihvi when Kareena calls her up. She takes her call and Kareena asks Sherlyn to ask her mother to meet them soon for finalising the wedding date of Rishabh and hers. 
 
 Sherlyn says they should wait for Prithvi and Preeta to get engaged first. Kareena asks Sherlyn to speak with her mother soon. Karan decides to not let Preeta get engaged to Prithvi. In Kumkum Bhagya, Pragya is seen thinking about how she cannot save Abhi's home. She says it is more important to save Abhi's life than his house.
 
 Avantika calls up Pragya and tells her that she will take money to save Abhi's life. 
 
 Back in Kundali, Karan's dadi and mother tell him that they have a special birthday gift for Kareena bua. Karan thinks of a plan and decides to host a party for Kareena. Karan's mother gets worried how will they manage to make Kareena attend her surprise birthday party. 
 
 Karan thinks party will be the easiest way to expose Prithvi. Preeta and Srishti are having fun with dadi at their home when Karan knocks at their door. Karan invites Srishti and Preeta to their house for the party. Preeta declines saying that she has to get ready for her own engagement. But Karan manages to convince Preeta and asks her to bring along Prithvi. 
 
 
 In Kumkum Bhagya, Abhi gets bail, Purab and Pragya get to leave for Avantika's (Simonika) home to get the deal going. Abhi gets worried not seeing Pragya at the police station. He worries for Pragya's safety. Pragya goes to the court to transfer property papers but Purab asks her to think once before making such a move. 
 
 
 Avantika comes to meet Pragya at the court so that she can check the papers herself. Avantika asks Pragya the reason for not having signed the property papers. Pragya says she will sign the papers once Avantika has signed the legal papers she has gotten ready. Avantika refuses initially but agrees to it later. In Kundali, Karan is happy that he will expose Prithvi in the party. Preeta comes out to hand over a phone to Karan but realises it is not his. 
 
 Preeta asks Karan why doesn't he speak to her politely and why is he rude with her all the time. The two share a romantic moment and Preeta gets intimidated. 
 
