NEW DELHI: The long-awaited   airport in Greater Noida, which got the Centre’s final nod on Monday, could be connected by at least two different train systems to Delhi. The UP government is examining the feasibility of having a dedicated Rapid Rail Transit System (RRTS) corridor from   to the proposed airport site. Three RRTS routes have already been approved from Sarai Kale Khan hub to Meerut, Panipat and Alwar.

 The Jewar RRTS is being considered in addition to the Greater Noida metro which will be extended to the airport site and another direct link between   to Delhi’s second airport, for which a train is among the various possibilities. The airport will also be connected to the Eastern Peripheral Expressway, which connects Palwal with Kundli, bypassing Delhi. This site will also get an Aerocity like Delhi’s IGI Airport.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 “We are working simultaneously on connectivity to Jewar airport and the timely completion of its first phase in financial year 2022-23. We have asked the   (NCRTC, which has begun work of RRTS) to examine the feasibility of having a separate line from Sarai Kale Khan to Jewar airport. This rail is faster than metro due to fewer stations where it needs to stop and is well suited for the airport,” Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority chairman Prabhat Kumar told TOI. YEIDA is the nodal authority for building the Jewar airport.
 
 The cost of connectivity — expected to be in several thousands of crores — is separate and not connected to airport financing. Aviation secretary R N Choubey on Monday gave the final nod to Jewar airport and now the Centre and UP government are working in sync on the project for both connectivity and airport construction.
 
 “We will issue the bids for constructing the airport by July. A concessionaire will be chosen by September and foundation stone-laying will take place in October. The actual construction on site will begin by the end of this fiscal, that is by March 2019. The first phase will be ready by 2022-23,” Kumar, an experienced aviation hand who earlier headed DGCA, said.
 
 The Jewar airport will be built in four phases with total construction cost estimated at Rs 15,000 crore. The cost of land acquisition is another Rs 4,000 crore that will be borne by UP government. “In the first phase to be operational by 2022-23, we will have a terminal, parallel taxi-way and a runway that will cost Rs 4,000 crore. The airport will open with an annual capacity of 1.2 crore passenger per annum,” Kumar said.
 
 With 5,000 hectares or over 12,350 acres earmarked for Jewar airport, the site will have three to four runways which will be built as per growth of air traffic. UP government will appoint a global consultant for having an Aerocity near the Jewar airport.
 
 While work is on for Jewar, the Airports Authority of India ( ) has also issued tenders for developing a civil enclave at Hindon Air Force Base so that this place, right next to Delhi, could be used for regional flights as the IGI Airport is completely choked due to a crippling infra crunch.
 
