Shimla: Congress legislators created ruckus in the House on the issue of BJP supporters raising slogans outside the assembly building. Congress Legislative Party (CLP) leader Mukesh Agnihotri said that people were entering the assembly complex carrying BJP flags and raising slogans. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur responded by saying that during previous regime, Congress workers used to sit in the visitors’ gallery wearing party symbol. This lead to utter chaos in the House.

 The matter was raised by Congress’s Kinnaur MLA Jagat Singh Negi at the beginning of the Question Hour. He said that people coming to meet chief minister and other ministers are raising party slogans. He claimed that even political speeches were being delivered inside the assembly complex and all this needed to be stopped immediately.
 
 Parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Bhardwaj said that matter relates to Vidhan Sabha and instead of issue being raised in the House, member could have discussed in the chamber of the speaker.
 
 Agnihotri said that opposition had given in writing to Speaker and it would have been better had the parliamentary affairs minister had better coordination with Speaker.
 
 Speaker Rajiv Bindal said that he had received the letter on Tuesday. He assured the assembly members to resolve the matter.
 
 Afetr this when Negi tried to make some point, speaker did now allow him. Soon the house witnessed noisy scenes.
 
 Thakur said that large number of people had come to meet him on Monday and they raised slogans for chief minister but no slogan was raised for the party. He said that during previous regime, supporters wearing party symbol had even entered inside the visitors’ gallery.
 
 On this, Agnihotri stood up to make his point. Members from treasury sides also stood up and once again noisy scenes were witnessed. Agnihotri said that dignity of House should be maintained as now right outside people were playing drums and raising slogans.
 
 The CM said people would come to meet the chief minister and ministers as it was “people’s government”. He said that there is space crunch and no proper place to meet the huge delegation in the assembly complex.
 
 
