BHOPAL: While the Union government has gone on an overdrive with its “Jago Grahak, Jago” campaign, to make consumers aware of their rights, the consumer redressal forums across   portray a dismal picture.

 Most forums, including the one in Bhopal, are headless and cases are piling up each day.
 
 Surprisingly, not a single district forum out of the 51across the state have presidents since September last year.
 
 More than 500 new cases have been registered with Bhopal consumer disputes redressal forum between September 2017 and January 2018.
 
 “Since members of the forum have no authority to take any decision, all old cases are pending and new ones are adding up each day,” said sources.
 
 “Food and civil supplies department which is authorized to make appointment of presidents to the   is presently in the process of framing new rules and it might take some more time,” said principal secretary, law department, who is also a member of consumer forum’s president selection committee.
 
 Bhopal district consumer forum has been without a president for the last five months after the former president   was transferred to his parent cadre in civil court.
 
 Sources said not only presidents, but many districts do not even have members. Bhopal, too has a vacant post for a member.
 
 Under the Consumer Protection Act, consumer disputes redressal agencies — a district redressal forum, a state commission and a national commission — are set up to look in to disputes between consumers, manufacturers and service providers.
 
 In a district forum, a bench must comprise a president who is usually a retired district and session judge and two members, both graduates and one of whom is a woman. For hearing and disposal of a case, presence of the president and one, if not two members, are mandatory, said sources.
 
 As of now, the members have the authority to only issue notices to the parties and give new dates thereby extending the time. They do not have the power to dispose a case.
 
