NEW DELHI: Canadian Prime Minister   was mocked on social media for his choice of attire during his visit to India.
 
 
 Trudeau, who arrived in India on February 17 for a week-long visit to India, was ridiculed by politicians, media and social media users for his dressing style, which was described as "choreographed", "fake" and "annoying".
 
  
  
 
 Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister   was among the many social media users to criticise the Canadian Prime Minister’s "choreographed cuteness".
 
 "Is it just me or is this choreographed cuteness all just a bit much now? Also FYI we Indians don’t dress like this every day sir, not even in Bollywood," he tweeted along with photographs of Trudeau and his family, dressed in traditional attire, greeting people with folded hands.
 
  
  
 Following criticism, Trudeau defended his dressing style and said he was famous for wearing traditional clothes to a broad range of events in different communities in his country and elsewhere.
 
 "Reaction of people on whether I'm wearing traditional clothing or suit and tie is extremely encouraging in Indo-Canadian friendship," Trudeau said.
 
 A Twitter user termed Trudeau fashion faux pas a "Mehendi laga key rakhna, doli sajakey rakhna" look.
 
 A reference to the famous Bollywood film of the 90s, “Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge”, which was known for its colourful and animated attires and sets.
 
  
  
 International media was even less forgiving in its criticism of Trudeau's "Bollywood adventure".
 
 Comedian  , the host of the Comedy Central's talk show "Daily Show", poked fun at the Canadian PM and said that he looked like he is auditioning for "Jai Ho", a song from the Academy Award-winning movie "Slumdog Millionaire".
 
 Justin Trudeau tried way too hard in India, and it backfired spectacularly," wrote the digital media website, Mashable.
 
 The US-based Washington Post termed his trip to India "a total disaster". 
 
  
  
 "How did Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, the world’s favorite liberal mascot — a feminist man, with movie-star good looks, a 50 percent female cabinet and a political lexicon that has replaced “mankind” with “peoplekind” (making millions swoon) — end up looking silly, diminished and desperate on his trip to India this week?" The media outlet questioned.
 
 American news and opinion website, The Daily Wire, flashed the headline - "Justin Trudeau makes a fool of himself again, insults entire nation of India with flashy, condescending attire".
 
 Author Taslima Nasreen, however, took an alternate view of the entire episode. According to her, Trudeau wore Indian dresses to express his love for the Indian culture.
 
  
  
 
