KOLKATA: The overwhelming response to the Tejaswini programme — where 156 women between the ages of 12 and 40 took a five-day intense self-defence training last week — has led officials of the Kolkata Police Sergeants’ Institute to plan the launch of a academy that will provide a regular course in self-defence. The modalities of the programme will be worked out in a meeting scheduled next Monday.

 
 According to   sources, three things will be kept in mind while opening the academy based on the feedback from Tejaswini.
 
  
  
 
 Firstly, the training will be restricted to weekends so as to allow students and working women to participate. Secondly, the training will be imparted for around three hours each day and finally, it will be scheduled so as to avoid clashing with the other two KPSI programmes — cricket and basketball.
 
 “The weekend timing was the main demand from participants and women wrote saying they were forced to let go of the opportunity as the training was stretching into week days. Also, this time there is no pressure to adhere to deadlines like last time,” said a source.
 
 Police sources said that since the basketball training usually takes place between 7am and 9am on weekends, the self-defence training is likely to be pushed into the 9am-12pm slot. The cricket academy runs in the evening. The cops said they are also looking at capping the maximum number of trainees.
 
 “The number of slots available, the need for a fee and other modalities will be discussed in our upcoming meeting,” said the source.
 
 The sudden spurt of crime against women in public places has made Kolkata Police come up with a unique training programme to train adolescent girls and women how to tackle such incidents. The self-defence training, as of now, will essentially include the basics of self-defence and will be taught by tutors holding black belts (second dan).
 
 “When women step out of their homes, they are sometimes subjected to unwanted touches or obscene behaviour. There are certain individuals who try to take advantage of situations. Our training will make women more confident in tackling these incidents,” the cops wrote on their Facebook page.
 
 
 
