CHANDIGARH: Failure to put a check on transmission and distribution losses has cost Chandigarh electricity department Rs 3.13 crore. The distribution loss has been recorded at 13.65% as compared to 13.25% approved by the   ( ) in its order dated May 4, 2017. Unhappy with the loss, the commission said that the impact of additional losses will be borne by the  . The loss cannot be passed on to the consumers. The disincentive has been calculated at Rs 3.64/kWh.

 As per regulation, 10 of the multi-year tariff (MYT) regulations 2014, an incentive is given to licensee achievement of norms of distribution losses while   is imposed for not achieving the target set by the commission. The department in its defense contended that T&D losses have been stagnating between 15.24% and 13.65% from the year 2013-14 to 2016-17.
 
 One of the main reasons for stagnation given by the department is the increase in the number of domestic consumers. The department contended. “For reduction of T&D loss, it is well-known that voltage level has to be increased but since in Chandigarh 87% consumers are under the domestic category, the electricity wing is facing difficulty in reducing the loss.”
 
 The electricity department caters to 2.28 lakh consumers, who are divided into nine different categories. As per official figures, 1.99 lakh consumers are domestic users, accounting for more than 87% of the overall figure. Remaining 23% consumers are divided into commercial, small power, medium supply, large supply, bulk supply, public lighting, agriculture power and temporary supply categories.
 
 Expressing dissatisfaction with the response of the department, the commission was of the view that the intra-state distribution loss in the similar urban distribution companies, like BSES   ( ), BSES Yamuna Power Ltd (BYPL),  , where majority of the sales is happening in domestic, is lower than the intra-state distribution loss of the UT power department. There is a significant potential for intra-state distribution loss reduction in Chandigarh.
 
 During the public hearing session held in March, city residents had criticized the department for its failure to put a check on high T&D losses and passing them on to the consumers.
 
 The UT’s electricity department does not have a mechanism to pinpoint issues that are causing high transmission and distribution losses in the city.
 
 The ill-equipped department only has an overall figure of losses and its inability to identify the causes has emerged as the main hurdle in putting a check on these. The department has failed to install smart metres at all 66 KV and 11KV nodal points for the energy audit. 
 
 
