CHANDIGARH: Firms operating from   (IT Park) has accused the municipal corporation ( ) of illegally sending them property tax notices, as  , they said, does not fall under municipal limits.

 The civic body had recently issued property tax notices ranging from Rs 25 lakh to Rs 1 crore to around 15 build-to-suit (BTS) sites and a hotel. The MC had calculated the tax from 2005 till December 2017 and included interest component as well. The   has taken up the matter with UT adviser Parimal Rai seeking directions to the civic body for immediate withdrawal of notices.
  
  
 To support their contention that IT Park is outside the MC limits, the association has submitted relevant documents – land record of the area and demarcation of MC limits — which they have obtained under Right to Information Act 2005 — to the adviser.
 
 Terming the notices slapped on the IT firms as “illegal”,  , co-president of the association, questioned: “How can they impose property tax when the entire area is not under MC limits?” He further said the documents procured by them under RTI corroborate their assertion.
 
 The corporation, on the other hand, claims otherwise. MC commissioner Jitender Yadav said the corporation is providing services to IT Park and are well within their rights to impose property tax. He said there is no clause in the allotment letters of the IT firms which states they are exempted from property tax.
 
 UT special secretary engineering Mukesh Anand maintained that the IT Park is with the administration and is being maintained by the engineering wing of the administration.
 
 
 
 The UT administration in 2003 had taken a policy decision to exempt IT Park from property tax for a period of 30 years. The order approved by then administrator Lt Gen J F R Jacob (retd) read: “In case the   continues to remain outside the boundaries of the MC, it shall be the commitment of the administration not to levy property tax. It is made clear that this will not preclude the administration from levying any user charges or any charges that may be levied by the administration under Section 7A of the Capital of Punjab Act 1952.” The order further stated: “In case during this period of 30 years the IT Park is included in the boundaries of the municipal corporation, then this commitment shall be binding on the corporation for the above period.”
 
 BOX:
 
 The UT department of information technology had written to the MC in March 2013 for including IT Park, around 110 acre, in municipal limits for providing civic amenities and solid waste management services on a regular basis. These services include sweeping of roads, common area, and removal of unauthorised temporary encroachments, placement of garbage bins and collection and disposal of garbage.
 
 
