SILCHAR: With train services being completely suspended due to the 48-hour bandh at  , passengers left stranded at the   on Saturday ransacked the station building, damaging the unreserved ticket system office, furniture and machineries. As many as 1096 passengers have been stranded at   station for the past three days, in extremely cold weather conditions with very little food on offer. 

 The 48-hour bandh, starting from 5am on Friday, was called by different Dimasa bodies in protest against the police firing at Maibang station on Thursday in which two protesters were killed and eight others injured. 19 policemen and a district official were also injured in the clash between police and protesters during the12-hour bandh called by Jadike Naiso Hosom (JNH), the apex body of the Dimasas, Dimasa Students Union, Dimasa Mothers Association and other organizations against reports of a draft plan of the Naga peace agreement which suggested including Dima Hasao in the proposed Nagalim. 
 
 Sources said the passengers of the Silchar-Guwahati special passenger train, who had been dragged out by protesters at Maibang station on Wednesday, were brought to New Haflong under security cover provided by the administration. But they now remain stranded with many of them complaining that though   Rifles personnel have been cooking and distributing khichdi among them, the food on offer is insufficient. At least five passengers have fallen ill during the day and they have been admitted to a local hospital, sources added. 
 
 Deputy commissioner (Dima Hasao) Debojyoti Hazarika rushed to the station on Saturday and brought the situation under control after holding a discussion with the angry passengers. Talking to TOI, he said the protesters on last Thursday had removed railway tracks in a number of places and did not allow the authorities to repair them. However, repair of the tracks have been completed by Saturday afternoon after a flag march by the security forces who continue to maintain a strong vigil in the area. 
 
 
