

 
 
 
 
 In a few weeks, the world’s biggest sporting spectacle will unfold in Russia and I, along with millions of football lovers, will be eagerly watching every moment of it. Memories of Germany’s brilliance in Brazil four years ago are still fresh in my mind, especially one man and his heroics between the posts — Manuel Neuer.
 
 Neuer was more than just a world-class goalkeeper. He built play from the back, intercepted through balls and his prowess as a ‘sweeper-keeper’ in Germany’s defensive third was par excellence. The match against Algeria where he created an impenetrable shield around him gave the world a glimpse of the future of goalkeeping and how the role has changed. It also established Neuer as the modern, complete goalkeeper — one not afraid to take risks while also keeping a clean sheet.
 
 The modern-day goalkeeper is more involved, someone who can start attacks and has become better with reaction, agility and speed. I think it’s a great advantage because today every single player contribution matters. If a goalkeeper can do more than just protect his net and build counterattacks, keep the ball and help his defenders push forward, he is a valuable asset to the team.
 
 Of course, every position has its own dangers and risks. In such a high intensity role of ’keeping, you need to think outside the box and at the same time, leave no room for errors. Decision-making will be split-second, so one wrong move can cost you. The mantra is to be offensive and smart.
 
 During my time with Norwegian club Stabaek in Europe, I had the privilege to learn different styles from some of the best in the business. Under former US and Swansea coach Bob Bradley, we were groomed to be a mix of both offensive and defensive. Each coach had his system, but we had the freedom to adopt whatever style we wanted.
 
 While training and playing in Europe, the speed, training and understanding of the game was at least two to three levels higher than what you get in India. There, you’ve got to open your mind, let your chi flow, learn to look at the game from a different perspective.
 
 I grew up watching Edwin Van der Sar, Gianluigi Buffon and Iker Casillas, goalkeepers who inspired me to take up this role. There is a lot to learn from them — I used to think I had a similar frame as Van der Sar’s, tried to imbibe Casillas’ bravery in one-on-one situations in my play.
 
 Neuer may not feature in Russia but that does not negate the quality of goalkeeping that will be on display in Russia. Especially for Germany, who have  . He has been exceptionally good for Barcelona, and with his game intelligence and excellent footwork and could prove the game-changer for Die Mannschaft.
 
 Spain have the masterful  , whose brilliance between the posts cannot be summed up in words. Ederson is another sweeper-keeper who will impress for Brazil, if he manages to pip Alisson Becker to the job. While the former doesn’t shy away from making those risky passes and rushing out his box for Manchester City, Roma’s Alisson is less attacking, but highly productive.
 
 Buffon will be missed. The Italian legend began his career at a time when football was different and the way he changed his game to adapt to the demands of modern football over the years is commendable.
 
 In my opinion, it would be tough for someone to match Neuer’s attacking legacy at the World Cup this year. But don’t take your eyes off the likes of Ter Stegen, De Gea and Ederson, who will surely be the ones to watch for their fearless, new-age goalkeeping. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Some of the world’s best shot-stoppers will look to emulate their impressive club performances in their nation’s World Cup campaigns. Here’s looking at a few who will be in the battle for the Golden Glove…
 
 
 
 
 (Spain/Manchester United)
 
 Age: 27 I EPL appearances: 37 I Clean sheets: 18 I Saves: 115 I Sweeper clearances: 6 I Punches: 6 I Goals conceded: 28
 
 Replacing two legends — Edwin Van der Sar and Iker Casillas — at Man United and Spain respectively were pretty large gloves to fill but the Premier League Golden Glove winner has aced the roles to perfection. One of the best shot-stoppers in the business, he is quick on reflexes, good with his feet and has great ball distribution skills.
 
 
 
 (Germany/Barcelona)
 
 Age: 26 I La Liga appearances: 36 I Clean sheets: 18 I Saves: 96 I Punches: 14 I Clearances: 26 I Goals conceded: 28
 
 He is the best man to shoulder Germany’s title defence in the absence of Manuel Neuer. His growing dominance as a sweeper-keeper — one that helped Barca pull off their greatest ever comeback wins against PSG — will boost Die Mannschaft’s aggressive style of play. Apart from good anticipation skills, he is calmly brilliant in one-on-one situations and commands authority in the box.
 
 
 
 
 (Brazil/Manchester City)
 
 Age: 24 I EPL appearances: 36 I Clean sheets: 16 I Saves: 58 I Punches: 14 I Sweeper clearances: 40 I Goals conceded: 26
 
 His record £35m move from Benfica to City raised eyebrows but his performance this season has justified the price tag. Intimidating, fierce and never shy to rush out of his box, Ederson also impresses with his mighty kicks and highly-effective ball distribution qualities. For Pep Guardiola, he’s the perfect goalkeeper, but for Brazil coach Tite, Ederson’s risky, sweeper-keeper abilities may not be enough over Alisson Becker.
 
 
 
 
 (Brazil/AS Roma)
 
 Age: 25 I Serie A appearances: 37 I Clean sheets: 17 I Saves: 109 I Punches: 17 I Clearances: 39 I Goals conceded: 28
 
 He’ll be feeling the pressure, with Ederson waiting on the bench. But given his mental fortitude and composure in pressure situations, it is safe to say Alisson will ace Brazil’s top job. He has been Serie A’s top ’keeper and among the best in Europe with impeccable reflexes and positioning skills. He Conceding just three goals in 11 games in the qualifiers was enough to earn Tite’s faith.
 
 
 
 
 (France/Tottenham Hotspur)
 
 Age: 31 I EPL appearances: 36 I Clean sheets: 15 I Saves: 86 I Punches: 20 I Sweeper clearances: 37 I Goals conceded: 35
 
 Coming off a creditable season in England, the skipper shoulders the additional responsibility of leading a relatively young, ambitious team to glory. Consistency has been an issue but his agility, pace and reflex saves make up for his rare errors. A ’keeper who excels at sweeping behind his defenders and driving play upfield, Lloris can, on his day, leave a lasting impression.
 
 
 
 
 (Belgium/Chelsea)
 
 Age: 26 I EPL appearances: 35 I Clean sheets: 15 I Saves: 76 I Punches: 9 I Sweeper clearances: 12 I Goals conceded: 34
 
 In a squad that has all the right elements to make it big at the World Cup, he is the icing on the cake. His 6-feet 6-inch frame and acrobatic dives are a treat to watch. He possesses good aerial prowess and interception skills and in one-on-one situations, Courtois is composed and never afraid to put his body in harm’s way to stop a goal.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
