KOCHI: It seems, the fortunes of old   road bridge is about to change with PWD planning a 700m walkway with tourist attractions, eateries, a toilet complex, a resting place for the public and a corner for fishing.  , an independent agency under PWD, has mooted this plan and sought government approval for the same.

 The old bridge has been lying unused for two years after traffic was diverted through the new parallel bridge. “Cochin Port Trust, which owned the old bridge, handed it over to PWD We don’t have plans to pull down the bridge. We don’t have one for its protection as well,” said PWD executive engineer P Shaiju.
 
 An official of Aswas said the firm had prepared a preliminary proposal. “We are yet to work out the detailed project report (DPR). Once we get government nod, we will work on DPR and cost details. A walkway all through the length of the bridge, eight or nine kiosks selling spices and other objects, a couple of eateries, a small park, play equipment for kids and a toilet complex would define the project in a nutshell,” he said.
 
 As of now, the road is being used by pedestrians as there is no walkway on the new road. Some urinate at the entrance to the bridge. Fishing is an important activity on the old bridge now. “There would be at least 100 persons who come here for fishing. For some it is a job. Engineers with Metro rail, Navy officers and people from different walks of life cast a line here every day,” said an officer in the  , adding that the bridge lacks lighting facilities.
 
 Those who fish earn up to Rs 1,500 a day. “Some come in the morning and stay here till noon while others prefer evening. We fish after considering the tides,” said Jacob who runs a stall in Kaloor.
 
 The PWD agency has earmarked a certain area for fishing. “We like to encourage those who fish here. We have suggested the fish caught here can be cooked by proposed eateries on the bridge and served on a platter to customers. The bridge can become a happening place for leisure activities,” said an official said.
 
 The call to protect the bridge has been going on for some time. “During assembly elections, we started a campaign to protect the bridge. The bridge is a historical monument that should be protected,” said C K Peter, a councillor from Konthuruthy.
 
 
