PANCHKULA: The district court on Tuesday told the cops to appear before the court with the brain mapping and lie detector test reports of the accused lawyer Manmohan and set the hearing date for the same on March 6. The police officials have filed an application with the Madhuban officials seeking a date to permit them to conduct the tests in their laboratory.

 A plea to conduct the brain mapping and lie detector test of the accused lawyer Manmohan was presented before the court after he gave his nod to the cops. The court permitted the cops to conduct the tests and to present the report before court.
 
 The cops after receiving the clearance from court cops sent an application to the doctors at Madhuban seeking a date to conduct the test. The test is crucial for police and the family of victim as all the attempts to locate the body of deceased,   alias   during the 14-day police remand of accused had failed.   had been missing from her house since January 16.
 
 The accused Manmohan along with his alleged paramour   and her brother-in-law Sandeep Gill had admitted to have murdered Rajni by strangulating her with a rope. The cops have also recovered the rope from the accused but haven’t been successful in recovering the dead body of the victim. They have also seized the saree of the victim from an open drainage in Industrial Area Phase-2 of Chandigarh which is near CTU (Chandigarh Transport Undertaking) workshop.
 
 The car which was used in the crime was also recovered by the cops. The accused has given multiple statements to the cops about the body of the victim. Initially, the accused told that he hired two goons from   who dumped the body. Later on, Manmohan changed his stance and told the cops that he dumped her body in a forest area of Morni near  . In his another altered statement, he admitted to have dumped the body in an open drainage in Chandigarh.
 
 The family of the victim is still hoping to find the body of the victim regularly visit police station to get any update.
 
