Many of the arts and science colleges in the city have come up with new courses this year while trying to keep pace with the prevailing demand for pure science and interdisciplinary courses. Apart from MSc geophysics that the National College   is offering from this year, five-year integrated program on biochemistry and geology are the other courses on offer. While St Joseph’s   has started BSc visual communication course this year, it is also offering post-graduate diploma in data analytics which has become one of the sought after programs now.

 "We are the only college under Bharathidasan University (BDU) to offer under-graduate and post-graduate program in geology. This year we are introducing MSc applied geology as an integrated program," director of   (NCT) K Anbarasu said.
 
 "NCT is introducing MSc geophysics which is an innovative programme," said Anbarasu adding that none of the institutions in the state is offering this course. "The course focuses on oil and mineral exploration," he said.
 
 "We found that the students undergoing BSc and MSc biotechnology courses are unable to crack competitive exams or National Eligibility Test (NET). The five-year integrated MSc biotechnology programme was designed in a way to give a winning edge to the students," said M S Mohamed Jaabir associate professor, biotechnology department.
 
 Bishop Heber College in Trichy has planned to introduce a couple of BCom courses including professional accounting and international accounting, said its principal Paul Dhayabaran. This apart, they will also offering MA Economics and BLit Tamil. 
 
 Principal of St Joseph’s college (SJC) S Andrew said that they were introducing BSc visual communication from this year apart from the post-graduate diploma in data analytics. Holy Cross College (HCC) is introducing BA Tamil from this year apart from MSc biochemistry, BSc biotechnology and master in library and information sciences.
 
 Bharathidasan University vice-chancellor P Manisankar said that committees have been inspecting all the colleges that had requested for starting new courses and approval has been given to some of the colleges.
 
 
