AHMEDABAD: The   reared its ugly head this weekend at Pingali village, Kalol taluka when the   had to be carried for her   protected by a police escort in fear of   who didn’t want the procession to move through the village proper.

 Reportedly, the Rajputs also had enmity with the son of the deceased, who claims to be the only one to raise his voice time and again against caste discrimination in the village. A complaint under sections of IPC and Atrocities Act has been registered against 12 members of Rajput community, including  , the sarpanch of the village in Panchmahal district, for trying to block the funeral procession.
 
 According to the FIR filed in Kalol police station by Dinesh Solanki — son of the deceased woman Pushpa Solanki, 54, the atrocity took place on Saturday morning, when he along with his relatives started the funeral procession. “The accused persons blocked our way and started abusing us with casteist slurs. The Rajputs warned us not to use the village road leading to the crematorium as it passes through their settlement,” stated Dinesh.
 
 He added in the complaint, “When we opposed this discrimination, the Rajputs started beating us. Sensing the seriousness of the situation, we called for police protection and conducted the last rites in police presence.”
 
 When contacted, Dinesh Solanki told TOI, “The members of Rajput community held a grudge against me as I used to raise my voice against discrimination. So, they started abusing us and gheraoed us during the last procession of my mother. When we called the police, around four to five policemen arrived first, but they had to call in more staff as the Rajputs began pelting stones.”
 
 Solanki said Dalits are not allowed to enter into the village temple and are subjected to different types of discrimination. “I was the only person to raise my voice against those atrocities so they targeted my mother’s funeral procession,” he said, adding that the police did not arrest anyone and the accused were roaming freely.
 
 
