PATIALA: Family of the Dalit girl, who filed a complaint last year against her school teachers for caste discrimination and upper caste classmates for discrimination, intimidation and physical assault after refusing to help them cheat in a Class X examination, is too scared to venture out from home after the   government took action against her teachers.

 After 16 teachers, including the principal of the government school at   in   district, where the girl studied, were transferred amid investigation into allegations of caste discrimination earlier this month, her classmates and their parents had protested against the action taken by the Punjab government.
 
 This has forced the schoolgirl and her family members to stay confined to their home in   village, some 30 km from Patiala, as they are scared they will be targeted by the 17-year-old’s accused schoolmates.
  
  The family faced boycott after their daughter alleged discrimination by teachers. They haven't ventured out of their house in a month.
 
 The family that lives in abject poverty has complained of discrimination by upper caste villagers. They claimed some upper caste villagers have started throwing compost and keeping heaps of cow dung adjacent to their house, creating an unpleasant and foul atmosphere for them. They alleged that even the free toilet they were entitled to under the Swachh Bharat Scheme was not constructed in their house although similar toilets had been constructed in homes of all upper caste families in the village.
 
 
 
 The 17-year-old’s mother and elder sister have stopped working as dailywage labourers and simply avoid going out. Her father, Hari Singh too has stopped working as a labourer. So scared is the family of the upper caste villagers that some of their relatives stay with them during the day and others stay at night to ensure their safety.
 
 This stress and protests against action taken by the government led the young girl to temporarily drop out of school. “At once, I decided to quit my studies from this school as my fellow students and my classmates along with some villagers had staged a protest recently at the behest of the accused school teachers and the villagers who support the accused classmates. They wanted to create pressure on me to leave my studies and quit the school,” said the girl, who topped in her class last year.
 
 “I was scared that my fellow students or other classmates may harm me at the behest of the accused. I avoided going to school and even had caught a fever a few days ago. However, some officials assured me of safety and motivated me to return to my classes in the school and I rejoined school on January 19 after a gap of some 10 days,” she added.
 
 Recounting her almost year-long ordeal, the girl said, “The teachers in my class started discriminating against me on everything. I was informed about my practicals only a day before they were scheduled whereas my all classmates were informed before me. The discrimination did not end here as my teachers kept on pointing at me and used abusive casteist remarks against me. The teachers also made me to sit on the backbench. They openly used to comment, ‘Why should Dalits study when jobs are reserved for them.’ Following this, I lodged a complaint against the staff, teachers and the accused classmates with the SC commission.”
 
 Her mother   and her elder sister have not worked for weeks now. “I avoid going outside my house fearing any controversy with the villagers. From last many days, I haven’t gone to work as a labourer. This had badly affected our financial condition and we have had to borrow money from our relatives and friends,” said Sunita.
 
 Despite their long fight for justice, the family is again facing pressure to withdraw the complaint and compromise with the accused. “The administration officials are trying to convince us to opt for a compromise with the accused teachers and the boys. However, we have decided to continue our fight against the discrimination that my daughter faced for a long time. My daughter gave them enough time last year after agreeing to a compromise with the accused in police station, but she continued to face caste discrimination,” her father said.
 
 He accused his daughter’s classmates of trying to intimidate the family. “The accused boys and their friends pass near our house and honk on their bikes to tease us. We ignore them as we don’t want to land in any tussle with them and lose our legal battle against them. We know these are petty tactics being used by the accused,” he said, adding that a class divide has emerged in the village “after we started fighting against discrimination.”
 
 
