This season, dance floors are your meditation ground – and your therapy chairs. Bollywood twists or salsa moves may help you burn calories, but what’s gaining popularity this season is inner dance – a form of movement that helps you soothe your soul and elevate your mood.

 Dancer Gilles Chuyen’s inner dance classes are all about using outer movement for inner peace. “Dancing changes the energy of your body. Feelings and life experiences live inside the body and can get trapped there. It makes you surrender and feel gratitude, which loosens up all the knots in our bodies. Soul dancing charges up your sacral chakra [the second chakra associated with the emotional body, sensuality, and creativity],” says Chuyen.
 This form of dance is psychotherapeutic which enhances our emotional intellect. Psychology Today reports on the rise of ‘movement psychotherapy’ all over the world. Movement therapy can be found in ballroom dance, yoga and stretching to ‘still’ the mind. 
 
 Unlike structured dance forms like Bharatnatyam or salsa, creative dance therapy pushes people to improvise movements and break patterns. Dancing as therapy is about finding your feet and making an inward journey. Spiritual retreats and festivals around the world now have inner dancing as part of their spiritual programme. Their belief is simple: we take life very seriously. Dancing helps us lighten the heaviness around. Different rhythms, moods allow us to experience life differently. When you dance to feel good, it allows you to recognise emotion in a moving body.
 
 A recent study, published in Frontiers in Aging Neuroscience linked dancing to improved ‘white matter’ in the brains of older adults. An Oxford University study reported how dancing encourages social bonding and what psychologists call “self-other merging”. Says dance therapist Stuti Chandhok, “Dancing gives life to your moods, and helps you come out of darkness. There’s a deep link between motion and emotion. When you dance, there is enhanced lightness that emerges within the body, soul and mind. It allows the darkness to lift.”
 
 There’s a deep link between motion and emotion. When you dance, there is enhanced lightness that emerges within the body, soul and mind. It allows the darkness to lift
 
 
 
 
 
 
