NEW DELHI: Despite DDA’s decision to allow  , city   are   an   to the   ordered by the SC-empowered  . 

 The capital witnessed a largely successful market shutdown on Friday with shops at popular markets at Greater Kailash, Green Park, Karol Bagh, Chandni Chowk and Laxmi Nagar pulling down their shutters. Many shops at Connaught Place and Khan Market were partially closed. 
 
 Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) said its first priority was restoration of the status quo. “The protests were held at 100 different spots across the city, which led to a business loss of Rs 1,800 crore for us and a revenue loss of Rs 150 crore for the government,” said Praveen Khandelwal, its secretary general.
 
 Thousands of traders marched on Arya Samaj Road and Ajmal Khan Road in Karol Bagh, which was the central spot of the protest. Virender Pal, a trader, alleged that corporation officials were demanding bribes by creating a fear of the sealing drive. “Pure blackmailing is going on in the name of sealing. Will the monitoring committee also monitor the de-sealing process?” Singh asked.
 
 The traders are also sceptical about DDA’s ‘relief’ measures. “Will   be able to overrule the Supreme Court-empowered committee? Even if it does, the process will take time and sealing will continue,” Pal said. 
 
 Delhi Congress chief Ajay Maken joined the traders at multiple locations and termed the sealing exercise a blackmail. “Both BJP and AAP are in power and they should stop protesting and start governing. We had found a solution to a similar problem in 2006,” Maken said. 
 
 The trade and commerce bodies want the Centre to bring an amnesty scheme to maintain the situation as it was on December 31, 2017 and set up a special task force under the chairmanship of the lieutenant governor to tackle the problems related to Master Plan 2021.
 
 The Sarojini Nagar market remained open but the traders wore black arm bands to express solidarity with the protesting associations. Rajesh Kumar, a cloth vendor in Old Delhi, said, “While we are not affected by the sealing drive, we have joined the bandh to stand beside those affected. The traders’ community is always harassed by the government and this needs to stop.”
 
 Sanjay Bhargava, general secretary of Chandni Chowk Vyapar Mandal, pointed out that though the market came under the special area norms, sealing had been carried out illegally. “We have been assured by the SC committee that it would de-seal all shops in the area.”
 
 A procession will be taken out from Red Fort to Town hall on Saturday as part of the two-day protest.
 
 
