Nagpur: As the countdown for CBSE Std X result begins, many academicians already agree that the high scoring era under Continuous and Comprehensive Evaluation (CCE) has come to an end. Results are expected by month end and this year’s traditional board exam format, being conducted after seven years, is a departure from the CCE system where schools controlled 70% of the students’ marks.  Mukta Chatterjee, executive director of Centre Point Schools, said, “The number of students scoring 98% and above will definitely go down. It cannot be ruled out that certain schools would have been liberal with the 70% marks under their control, which led to a lot of high scores.”  In fact, even the CBSE agreed that very early in CCE’s implementation after it did a random verification in 2013. Internal analysis done by CBSE that year revealed that a shocking 50% of the assessed schools had inflated their grades in Summative Assessment-I, out of which 8.90% schools were identified for having indulged excessively in that practice.  Anuradha Sardeshpande, principal of Modern School (Koradi), said the traditional board exam pattern will ‘right the wrong’. “I feel that finally justice will be done. Over the last few years since CCE came into existence, we were seeing a sharp rise in the number of high scorers. Maybe schools felt that their students deserved those marks, or maybe it was something else. Regardless, this year we will see rationalization of marks,” said Sardeshpande.  Principals also feel that high scorers’ club will be reduced drastically. Zeenat Syed, principal of Podar International (Besa), said, “For example, if 100 students scored above 98% under CCE format then from this year onwards there will be only 40 students. High scores are going to take a strong hit this year definitely.” The other aspect which will be affected by return of the traditional board exam is admission to Std XI in state board junior colleges. Over the last seven years, CBSE students kept a stronghold on the Std XI admission merit rankings because of their high 90s scores but academicians are convinced that this will all change now.  Sanjay Charalwar, former chairman of the Centralized Admission Procedure Committee (CAPC) for Std XI, said, “Now it’s a level playing field for all and CBSE students will be put to real test. Though the curriculum for CBSE and state board was almost same, the evaluation pattern was completely opposite due to which our (state board) students lost out in the race to grab seats in top colleges. Students who do well in theory will now have the upper hand in admissions.”