Accountancy is considered one of the most scoring subjects in Class XII’s Commerce stream. St Michael’s High School teacher B P Roy advises students to solve the NCERT exercise questions and understand the illustrations. He tells TOI’s Faryal Rumi how students can perform well in the board exams. Excerpts:

 Topics that are important...
 
 Accountancy is divided into two parts — ‘Accounting for partnership firms and companies’ and ‘Financial statement analysis’. Chapters dealing with cash flow statement, admission of a partners, dissolution of firm, death of a partner, redemption of debenture and pro-rata allotment of shares are important. Students should also be familiar with the application of rules of debit and credit.
 
 
 
 
 In case, the balance sheet does not tally, revise it once and move to the next question. It is not advisable to waste time in solving one question. Examiners, anyway, give marks on each step.
 
 Important chapters to solve formula-based problems...
 
 Chapters on ‘Ratio analysis’ and ‘Comparative financial statement’ are important for formula-based questions. The first chapter carries 4 to 8 marks while the second one carries 4 marks.
 
 How to score well in boards and competitive exams?
 
 Students, who are going to take CA examination, should thoroughly revise what they had learned in Class XI. From Class XII syllabus, ‘Partnership’ and ‘Company’ are important topics.
 
 
 
 
 Solve as many sample papers as possible and clarify all concepts. Solve previous years’ papers to know the pattern of questions asked and identify your weak points. Also, practise a CBSE model paper within two and a half hours and revise it in the remaining time. Try understanding the illustrations in the  .
 
 
 
 
 Properly scan the question paper and read it thoroughly during the first 15 minutes. Select the questions you want to attempt and are sure about. Assign some space for rough work in the answer-sheet. Write answers in points to enhance visibility and highlight them using a different pen.
 
 
