BHOPAL: The presence of eminent artistes during the recently concluded 36th foundation day celebrations at the   has raised hopes that the multi-arts complex may once again become a centre of excellence in arts and culture. Eminent personalities such as Sonal Mansingh, Nadira Babbar, Ashish Vidyarthi, Jayant Deshmukh, Ragini Chandrashekhar and a host of others were present during the foundation day ceremony.

 Bharat Bhavan has been reduced to ‘Bhopal Bhavan’ in the recent past with a plethora of performances mostly by local artistes. But, indifference of the trust entrusted to govern the institution continues to be a cause of serious concern.
 
 Madan Soni, the former chief administrative officer of Bharat Bhavan, who had been associated with the multi-arts complex right from its inception, said the institute is now referred to as ‘Bhopal Bhavan’ mainly because it has deviated from its vision and the dysfunctional trust is a reason for its decline.
 
 “The trust was abolished in 2011 and after so many years, it has been recently reconstituted with Padma Subramanyam as its chairperson. An institute of national eminence should have the right kind of people to govern its activities and keep it in good shape. The trust in its initial days had people like Swaminathan, BV Karant, Habib Tanveer and Ashok Vajpayee. The institute had a different kind of aura about it,” Soni said.
 
 The fact that even after the reconstitution of the trust in November, the website of Bharat Bhavan has not yet been updated and information about its members are not available only goes to show the sad state of affairs at the multi-arts complex. Incumbent chief administrative officer  , however, disagreed with the perception that local artistes were getting too much exposure at Bharat Bhavan. “The institute belongs to the whole country and only 30% of the total performances at Bharat Bhavan are from artistes of  ,” Shukla said.
 
 “If we give importance to local artistes, we are told national artistes are not being given a chance to perform here and if we call national artistes, we are accused of not encouraging the locals. It is a very difficult situation for us but we try our best to maintain a balance,” Shukla said.
 
 Bansi Kaul, an eminent theatre personality, who has worked with Bharat Bhavan extensively in the past said that one cannot expect an institute to function in the same way all the time. There will be ups and downs, no matter even if you have a glorious past. “There are many institutes that have strayed from their basic vision and Bharat Bhavan is no exception, ” said Kaul.
 
