PADIYAN KA PURWA (RAE BARELI): The death of the 28-year-old cab driver in a car crash near the Sikanderpur   in Gurugram has left his family in his village, Padiyan ka purwa in UP’s   district, shattered. Both the driver and a security guard were killed on the spot while an   pilot was grievously injured after a speeding   in the wrong lane crashed into the cab on Sunday.

 Vinod Kumar’s wife Savita, who married him 10 years ago and was living with him in Gurugram, and five-year-old son Chahat, have moved to the village for now. Savita said, “I couldn’t even see him one last time.” She had been advised against taking a look at the body of her husband, which was mutilated in the  .
 
 She recalled the time she spent with Vinod on Saturday before he left for his night-shift duty, adding, “he spoke to me on the phone for the last time around 11.15pm after finishing his tiffin. He asked about our son and told me to go to sleep. We had plans to go shopping on Sunday.” 
 
 Chahat looked bewildered by the sudden move to his father’s village. Initially, he was wondering how and when his father would join the family in Rae Bareli till a boy from next door told Chahat that his father would never come back. Since then, the child has been so distraught that he has been constantly calling on his father’s mobile phone number. “When will papa return from night duty?” he asked everyone.
 
 Vinod’s father Ram Sagar had suffered an attack that left him paralysed about three years ago and can barely speak. Tears rolled down his eyes every time his grandson asked him about his deceased son. Vinod’s mother Ram Rati Devi lamented that some evil spirit had taken her youngest child from her. “My favourite child is no more,” said the mother. 
 
 The family is yet to receive any help from any quarters. “The taxi company where Vinod used to work has assured us of help. I hope they keep their word,” said Vinod’s elder brother Manoj who also works as a driver in Gurugram.
 
 A visit to the Yadav household is enough to figure out their financial constraints. A 1.5-bigha land, two buffaloes, a cycle, a mobile phone and a traditional thatched house are the only assets the family has. The land is no longer used for farming as there is no one to keep an eye on the work. The house is the shared space for the family and the buffaloes. 
 
 The money which was being sent home by Vinod and his two brothers from Gurugram was the only source of income for the old parents. 
 
 Vinod’s grandfather Ram Samuj could not think of answers on being asked about how the family would survive now. 
 
 “The future is uncertain but it’s just the third day... the family will take a call on whether to bring Vinod’s wife and child to the village or let the boy study in Gurugram as the fees for the current trimester have been paid. We will also discuss the matter with authorities and ask for help as Vinod died on duty,” he added.
 
 
