NEW DELHI: The promise of “alternative politics” got second wind on Friday, when the Aam Aadmi Party got the opportunity to rebuild its crumbling public image dented severely by the disqualification of 20 of its MLAs for holding offices of profit. Party insiders saw the Delhi high court order restoring the legislators’ membership of the Delhi Assembly as an “impetus” to the “Kejriwal factor” that had slowly begun to lose lustre due to the constant wrangling with the Centre, the lieutenant governor and the bureaucrats.

 With the fear of bypolls receding,   will perhaps focus its energies now on next year’s parliamentary elections, though the high court has not entirely absolved the MLAs. Friday’s order only said that the principle of “natural justice” had not been adhered to when the EC delivered its verdict and asked the poll panel to hear the case afresh. This is where the challenge lies for the party. The matter will continue to be a political hot potato in the capital, with   and Congress unlikely to stop badgering AAP about it.
 
 The high court decision boosts AAP political strategy, allowing it to reinforce the impression that it has always been the victim of the Union government, as evidenced by the fact that its MLAs were not heard by the EC before disqualifying them. The party will also ensure the   will now bolster their standing among the electorate by focusing on development work in their constituencies, party insiders said. As it is, the state government had taken up development as a priority even before their disqualification, cautious of the fact that AAP’s politics had come under scrutiny.
 
 Among the 67 MLAS who won their places in the Delhi Assembly but have since fallen out with the party, the only vociferous dissident is former minister and suspended MLA Kapil Mishra. Pertinently, he too did not make direct attacks against the government in the House in the budget session that ended on Thursday. AAP founder-member Kumar Vishwas is another who frequently waves the red flag on party governance, leadership and other issues.
 
 Unlike them, the 20 restored MLAs always stood firmly behind Kejriwal's decision to appoint them as parliamentary secretaries and never wavered in their opinion about his leadership even when they lost their assembly membership for a while. Kejriwal had chosen some of his best MLAs to appoint as parliamentary secretaries through an administrative order in March 2015. The measure was described as a step to assist the ministers in performing their duties more efficiently, thus improving administration.
 
 The office-of-profit case is, of course, a facet of the constant tussle between the elected government and the LG. The appointments as parliamentary secretaries were made not only without the LG's approval, but despite the fact that there existed no provision in the law for such post holders. The singular point that AAP stressed throughout — that the parliamentary secretaries did not derive any pecuniary benefit from being in that position — hadn’t cut much ice. This forced AAP to amend the law to provide the 20 immunity from disqualification. A lot now depends on how the party sees the high court’s decision — as a respite or as a strategic weapon against the Centre.
 
 
