CHANDIGARH: A warden at   Model  , Vivek Kaushal, had been allegedly pushing narcotics into the prison to make a quick buck from inamtes addicted to drugs. However, soon, he will be sharing cell space with them.

 Kaushal was allegedly caught with .8g heroin, 6.5g charas, and 350 tablets of habit-forming pharmaceutical drugs inside the jail on Sunday night, after a suspicious warder checked him. The accused, who was hired as a temporary worker a “three-four years ago”, has since been sacked by the jails department, said IG (jails) O P Mishra on Monday.
 
 He was produced before a court in the morning and remanded in one-day police custody. According to the complaint filed by jail superintendent Amandeep Singh, the accused had stashed the contraband, which also included a pack of cigarettes and two Rs 500 notes, in his underwear.
 
 IG Mishra said Kaushal had raised suspicion soon after he was hired and they had been observing his activities. For now, police suspect the accused used to provide a day’s supply to addicted inmates and that was why he was carrying the drugs in small quantities, after taking money from their families and friends.
 
 A case has been registered at the Sector 49 police station, under whose jurisdiction the jail falls. The SHO of Sector 49, Jaswinder Kaur, said they had sought three-day police custody of the accused, but could get only a day to interrogate him. “We will try to get him to divulge the person from whom he bought the narcotics,” he said.
 
 According to the complaint, Kaushal entered the prison’s Deodhi gate on Sunday night and requested head warder Harbilas to relive the warder at kitchen barrack as he had some urgent work. Kaushal, it has been alleged, volunteered to substitute for the warder at the kitchen barrack.
 
 Sensing that something’s amiss, another warder, Sikander Singh, searched Kaushal in the presence of search duty warder Sanjay Kumar and Rambilas. On finding two pouches hidden in his underwear, the head warder reported the matter to senior officials, following which the pouches were opened in the presence of senior officials and the contraband caught, said the complaint.
 
 Sources in the prison said most of Kaushal’s customers were drug addicts. “We are also planning to honour the warder who searched the accused and detected the drugs,” said the IG.
 
 
 
 
 A former jail inmate,   alias Rocky, filed a public interest litigation (PIL) in the   and Haryana high court in May 2017, alleging that drugs were smuggled into the jail. Sarabjit had spent two years in the prison and had filed the petition after he was released. At that time, jail authorities had rubbished his allegations and gave a clean chit to the jail staff.
 
 
