Bhopal:Up in arms against the delay in payment of Right to Education (RTE) due, private schools moved the high court challenging Rajya Shiksha Kendra’s order that mandates Aadhaar verification of students under RTE for their admission and fee reimbursement.

 In the petition, Private School Owners Association alleged, “there is no mention of the word ‘online’ but the school education department was forcibly asking schools to provide Aadhaar verification of students through the system.” Speaking to TOI, president of the school owners body Ajit Singh said that no underprivileged students will be given admission until the fee for 2016-17 academic session is reimbursed. “We have sought interim orders from the HC to be issued to school education for immediate reimbursement of dues,” he added. Over 1,008 private schools in Bhopal — which gave admissions to students under the RTE Act in 2016-17 — academic session are yet to receive reimbursement after allegedly failing to upload information on the RTE portal.
 
 RSK director Lokesh Kumar Jatav said, “Let me study the petition first and then I will decide what to do further. The process of fee reimbursement is underway and schools have to provide Aadhaar verification of children to claim reimbursement.” He said that many schools have provided verification and those who have not done it are yet to receive the dues.
 
 RSK recently made Aadhaar mandatory for online registration system to claim reimbursement under RTE. However, private schools have been finding it tough to provide student information on the RTE’s online portal. While there has been mismatch in information on RTE students available with schools on their Samagra portal and Aadhaar IDs, school education department has clearly stated that “fee cannot be reimbursed unless students’ record and information about their government approved identity is not provided by the schools.”
 
 Almost all private schools in Bhopal are under the ambit of RTE and as per school officials, RSK owes them crores of rupees from the academic year 2015-16 to 2016-17. According to RTE norms, pending payments were supposed to be reimbursed by March 31, 2016.
 
 
