Margao:   striker   had to hurriedly pack his bags and take the first available flight out of Goa on Sunday after his former club, Kerala Blasters FC, complained to the Foreigner Regional Registration Office ( ) that he was staying illegally.
 
  Sifneos had a bitter fall out with Kerala Blasters after new coach and former England goalkeeper David James took charge of the team. The young Dutch striker was lured to India by coach Rene Meulensteen – formerly assistant to Alex Ferguson at Manchester United -- but with the manager being shown the door after seven matches, Sifneos found himself alienated at the club. The club then parted ways mutually with the player but felt betrayed after Sifneos chose to accept an offer from FC Goa for the remainder of the   ( ).
  
  Sifneos, 20, made a late appearance for FC Goa in the 3-4 defeat against Mumbai City FC when he took the field for the last eight minutes of the match. FC Goa chief coach Sergio Lobera wanted to include him in the squad for the next game against NorthEast United FC on Sunday, until the Foreigner Regional Registration Office (FRRO) came calling.
  
  “Kerala Blasters have complained to the FRRO in Kochi that Sifneos cannot be in India and play for FC Goa since his (employment) visa was issued to play for Kerala Blasters. We tried to buy time but were clearly told by the FRRO (in Goa) that he must return home or face deportation,” said a club source.
  
  Sifneos has himself confessed to TOI in an earlier interview that he had no intention of returning to India after his departure from Kerala. He was mulling over options in Europe but with the international transfer window drawing to a close, his options were limited. It was then that Goa showed interest and asked him to step into the boots of Spanish striker Adrian Colunga.
  
  FC Goa will continue to miss the services of the Dutch striker for the clash against Bengaluru FC and should be able to complete the formalities only for the next home clash on February 15.
