KOLKATA: The genesis of the dispute that has deprived 35 lakh homes in Bengal from tuning into broadcaster Star India’s channels lies in a churn in the cable television market that has seen multi-service operator ( )   wean away 2 lakh subscribers from rival  . 

 Over the past five-six months, several cable operators have switched from Manthan to SitiCable and taken subscribers with them. The reason for the shift: frequent blackouts by broadcasters that was triggered by non-payment of dues by Manthan. Now, after the operators have joined SitiCable, the latter has removed Star channels from its packages that are subcribed by 13 lakh homes in the city and another 22 lakh in rest of the state. 
 
 Sources in the industry said that while   had given concession to Manthan when the latter pointed to the loss of subscribers and resultant dip in earnings amounting to nearly Rs 3 crore per month, the broacaster had been rebuffed by SitiCable when it sought to hike in payment citing the increase in subscriber base.
 
 “Till now, SitiCable has been using its dominant market position to muscle its way through financial agreements with broadcasters. The MSO has been paying half of what other MSOs forked out to Star India. In addition, it has not allowed the broadcaster to audit its subscriber base, something that all MSOs are bound to adhere to under Telecom Regulatory Authority of India ( ) guidelines. When the broadcaster pressed for increasing the contracted amount with SitiCable to bring it on par with other MSOs, the latter pulled Star channels out of its bouquets,” an industry insider said. 
 
 Despite availing of an extremely lucrative deal, rival MSOs allege that SitiCable packages are priced the same as others. “No benefit is passed to the consumer,” an MSO official said. 
 
 Multiple sources among broadcasters, MSOs and cable operators confirmed that SitiCable had flatly refused to increase the payout for the additional 2 lakh subscribers it had acquired from Manthan. It was Star India that had served a notice to SitiCable for non-cooperation in audit and threatened to pull the Star channels out of its network on Janaury 10 when SitiCable counter-attacked by removing the channels from its packages. 
 
 “We have drawn up fresh packages with new pricing. Star India channels are not part of the bouquet offerings. If a viewer wants to watch a channel, he or she can take it a la carte,” said SitiCable Kolkata director Suresh Sethia.
 
 As the two giants battle it out, it is consumers who are the worst hit as they lose out on their favourite entertainment despite paying the amount demanded by the cable operator. Those who want to subscribe to Star Jalsha or any other Star channel paying a high a la carte price are finding it difficult as call centres of cable operators are not equipped to meet a sudden spike in requests.
 
 “Not just cable operators aligned to SitiCable, even others don’t have the wherewithal to execute requests from a large number of subscribers,” said an industry official.
 
 
