MUMBAI: Hit by the ban on manufacturing and use of plastic bags in the state, members of the   on Thursday urged the government to provide a   to exit the  . During their meeting with environment secretary Satish Gavai and state pollution control board officials, they expressed willingness to accept any monolayer plastic bag, including small pouches, from consumers at   in lieu of pushing back the ban by seven years till they exit the business.

 The delegation also pointed out that the ban on plastic items will make a huge dent on the state’s economy. The members claimed that not only will the Rs 15,000-crore plastic manufacturing industry in the state be wiped out, 2,500 manufacturing units, mostly in Malegaon, will either have to down shutters or move their business to other states, rendering around 80,000 employees jobless. 
 
 “Our offer to   plastic bags will help further streamline the collection and recycling,” said Rajesh Jain of the association. “Actually, it is the dismal performance of civic bodies, led by politicians and administrators, in handling solid waste management that has led to the ban.” The association is in favour of continuing the ban on plastic bags below 50 microns.
 
 “The ban will cause huge damage to the trade and industry as plastic is a prime packaging material for both perishable and non-perishable items. It is affecting the trading and retail industry too,” said Neemit Punamiya, general secretary of the Plastic Bag Manufacturers’ Association of India. “Each plastic commodity is as essential as milk and water pouches that are exempt from the ban. Over 6.7 lakh shirts are awaiting shipment in the absence of plastic bags.”
 
 Also, around 4 lakh ragpickers and scrap dealers involved in collecting plastic waste for recycling will be majorly hit, said Jain, and cited the example of Latur where NGOs, inlcuding one led by Sanjay Kamble, made the city plastic-free with the help of ragpickers. “We seek immediate waiver on the ban on plastic bags and a seven years’ moratorium. We may eventually switch over to other businesses but till then, the stakeholders need some time to start other businesses,” Jain added. 
 
 Shockingly, the annual per person consumption of plastic bags in Maharashtra is 650, which means a family of four uses around 2,600 bags. Of the 650 bags used per person a year, 350 are for packaging edible items, mostly food. Of the 1,200 tonnes plastic received by manufacturing units in Malegaon for recycling every year, only 200 tonnes can be recycled; the rest is dumped unscientifically causing harm to the environment.
 
 
