GUWAHATI: Not ruling out the possibility of suggesting a "re-think" on the Citizenship (Amendment) Bill, the Joint Parliamentary Committee ( ) on the bill is keeping its options open after the polarized reactions it has encountered. 

 
 The 30-member JPC is headed by   MP Rajendra Agarwal and has four MPs from Assam - Bhubaneswar Kalita and Sushmita Dev from  , and Ramen Deka and   from BJP.
 
 "This is a sticky issue. Whatever recommendation the JPC makes, the fate of the bill will depend on the Centre's determination. It appears that a re-think on the amendment bill is likely to happen," a JPC member told TOI on Tuesday. 
 
 "The government may push the bill in  , but it cannot withstand the scrutiny by judiciary. The application of Article 14 of the Constitution (equality before law) may prove to be the Achilles heel for the bill. The bill clearly violates this Article," the member added. 
 
 
 
 The Citizenship (Amendment) Bill, 2016, which seeks make minorities from Afghanistan, Pakistan and Bangladesh citizens of India, has split the Assamese-majority Brahmaputra Valley and Bengali Hindu-dominated Barak Valley. This may force a Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) on the bill presently touring the state to suggest to the Centre a rethink on the controversial bill.
 
 " T his is a sticky issue. It appears that a rethink is likely," a JPC member told TOI on Tuesday. "The government may push the bill in Parliament, but the proposed amendment may not withstand scrutiny by the judiciary as it may be violative of the right to equality before law (for leaving out Muslims from the list of proposed beneficiaries)," the JPC member said .
 
 On the first day of its visit on Monday, the JPC saw an overwhelming majority of organisations and individuals from the Brahmaputra Valley coming out against the bill. Their contention was that Assam would be swamped by migrants, especially from Bangladesh, if the bill was passed. AGP, an ally of BJP, threatened to pull out of the coalition if the bill was passed.
 
 In sharp contrast, the JPC found on Tuesday that public support was in favour of the bill in Barak Valley. While the state Congress has opposed the bill, its Karimganj and Hailakandi district units said they would support the bill if it was amended to include people of all religions and wasn't restricted to just Hindus, Buddhists, Jains, Sikhs, Christians and Parsis.
 
 Meanwhile, Meghalaya's ruling alliance, of which BJP is a constituent, has decided to not support the bill.
 
 
 
