KANYAKUMARI: Crippled, and forced into  , 12-year-old Antony was living in the vicinity of   in the district where he pleaded with devotees for money and food.

 When the police and the Child Protection Unit rescued him nearly a week ago, his parents protested, hurled abusive words at them. “You kidnapped our son. Give him back,” his  , 38, cried out. 
  
 
 
 
 Antony was only able to move on his hands and knees as he suffered fractures to his leg in an accident nearly four years ago. Instead of treating him, his parents, who eke out a living by begging, saw this as an opportunity to expand their income.
 
 “Two years ago, I spotted him moving on all fours at the Asaripallam Government Medical College Hospital. I got him admitted there for treatment, but his parents took him away from the hospital,” S Jerolin, a manager with the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation, who was part of the rescue team, told TOI. 
  
 
 
 After being rescued from Vijayakumar and his wife Michelamma, 35, Antony and his six-year-old sister were put up at a government home in Nagercoil. District child protection officer S Kumuda said the boy had already been rescued three times.
 
 The first time, he was produced before the Child Welfare Committee which sent him back with his parents after obtaining an assurance from them. However, the boy was later found   at Colachel and was rescued again. “This time we lodged a complaint against his parents with the  . But they refused to take the complaint,” Kumuda said. 
  (
 
 
 Antony, who has never attended school, was the breadwinner of the family. He has two younger sisters. On most days, the family collected around Rs 1,000 by seeking alms, and on special occasions it went up to Rs 1,500. Antony, with his disability, was the main contributor, earning nearly Rs 1,000 a day. Michelamma told TOI that her son suffered multiple fractures when her brother accidentally rode his bike over the boy’s leg.
 
 The DCPO is planning a corrective surgery for the boy as the earlier operation was unsuccessful.
 
