BENGALURU: A 21-year-old   employed at the Aircraft Research and Design Centre (ARDC), a wing of defence   (HAL), allegedly stabbed his superior repeatedly at the HAL headquarters over a   on Wednesday. The youth was eventually overpowered by his colleagues and handed over to the police.

 
 HAL cops said Mahendran L,41, a resident of B Narayanapura and head of a team at the mechanical unit of ARDC, was stabbed in the stomach and on his left hand and neck by Solomon Sebastian Raj, a resident of Gouthampura, Ulsoor, east Bengaluru. Colleagues rushed Mahendran to the nearby Sakra World Hospital in Marathahalli where he is said to be out of danger. The accused and victim were employed on a contract basis.
 
 Gopal Sutar, HAL spokesperson, told TOI: “The contractor was stabbed on the HAL premises by his hired employee with some instrument available at hand. We are not sure what the issue was between the two. The man who sustained injuries was rushed to HAL hospital immediately and subsequently shifted to a super-speciality hospital. He is reportedly out of danger, and HAL has reported the matter to the police who are investigating the case.”
 
 However, police had a different take on the incident, which occurred at 1pm on Wednesday. They said Raj confessed that he stabbed Mahendran with a knife which he had on his person for withholding 15 days of his salary for no reason. Raj allegedly had intended to kill Mahendran, police said.
 
 Angry over withholding his salary, Raj went up to Mahendran and demanded to know why, police said. It led to a heated argument between the two. In a fit of rage,Raj allegedly took out a knife from his right pant pocket and stabbed Mahendran thrice. Mahendran screamed in pain and fear and that alerted his colleagues who rushed to his aid. While some caught hold of Raj and snatched the knife from his hand,the others quickly took Mahendran to hospital.
 
 “We have taken Raj into custody. Based on the statement of the victim, we have registered a case of attempt to murder against Raj.”
 
