NAGPUR: The Nagpur Metropolitan Region Development Authority’s (NMRDA) plan to develop the first-of-its-kind logistics park between Amravati Road and   at   and Pendhri is set to become a reality. The project has been divided into four parts, and hassle-free area has been identified for the two parts to be executed in the first phase.

 With revision in the project, famous resorts like  , open garden restaurants like Environment Highway, Sky Garden, Rajdhani etc are safe for some time, since their location is not part of the first phase.
 
 The project was proposed five years ago, with preparations in full swing for draft of development plan (DP) of Metro Region. Earlier, the project was planned over 20 sq km area, covering entire land parcel of Gondkhairi village in   tehsil and Pendhri village in Hingna tehsil. The same provisions were made in the metro region’s DP.
 
 However, the project was set to witness strong opposition as prime agriculture land of two villages, and private projects like resorts, open garden restaurants, hotels etc were required to be acquired.
 
 NMRDA official told TOI the project has been divided into four parts, of which part-II and III will be taken up first. “These two parts are situated on the other side of Outer Ring Road, towards Amravati. Part-II will be 3.7 sq km and part-III 4.06 sq km for a total of 7.76 sq km. Land parcels coming in these two parts are owned by very few persons. Also, there are no major constructions in these two parts,” he said.
 
 An official from NMRDA town planning department said no objections were received to the notification published declaring the boundary of two parts of the project. “Draft of town planning scheme to decide what will come where has been prepared. Detailed project report to come up with estimated cost of the project and works is under preparation. Project execution can begin once draft of TPS is approved by the state government,” he said.
 
 The official added the fate of remaining two parts will be decided after completion of first two parts. Till then, the owners of the structures and agriculture land can relax. The chances of the remaining two parts being dropped also cannot be ruled out.
 
 The project is one of the five improvement schemes proposed by NMRDA in the Metro Region. It is likely to be the second to be implemented after Sumthana-Jamtha improvement scheme meant for residential projects.
 
 
