JODHPUR: A two-storied building in   collapsed on Tuesday afternoon. Three people, including two men and a kid, were rescued alive from the debris after a rescue operation that lasted for about four hours. Two of them suffered minor injuries while all three are out of danger, said district collector  .

 “We rescued three people who were buried in the debris. Many people were feared to be trapped inside, but no casualty or injury was found after the debris was cleared,” Surpur said.
 
 Initial investigation suggests that some construction work was being carried out in a plot very close to the building. “This impacted the structural integrity of the building, leading to its collapse,” Surpur told TOI. There was a departmental store on the ground floor of the building and a house above it. The building itself was located at a busy market road of Sardpura which is frequented by traders and customers, he added.
 
 “The owner of the building has alleged that an excavator machine at the adjacent plot was digging sand just below the wall of his building due to which it collapsed, an FIR has also been filed by its owner  ,” said Saradpura SHO Bhupendra Singh. According to Maheshwari, he had also complained to concerned officials about the way the construction was being carried out, but officials paid no heed to it.
 
 Rescue teams of   (JMC), police and civil defence swung into action after Sardarpura police station informed control rooms about the mishap. “All ambulances were diverted to the site, a team of disaster relief was also sent to the spot,” said the SHO. The rescue operation lasted for about four hours, in which the men and the child were pulled out of the debris and rushed to the nearby hospital.
 
 Jodhpur Mayor   said that strict action will be taken against those who were illegally carrying out constriction near the building. “I have directed officials to check compliance and other permission of the adjacent plot where digging was carried out. If found guilty, strict action will be taken,” Ojha said.
 
 
