Nagpur: Watch out if you park your vehicle in a haphazard manner, as Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) too will tow away wrongly parked vehicles now. There is also a move to double the current fine for wrong parking. Realizing that the absence of a proper traffic management plan has become a roadblock for city’s development, NMC and traffic police have decided to team up to draw a blueprint and ensure hassle-free traffic movement. A proposal to design, build, operate and manage (DBOM) a plan to tow away wrongly parked vehicles will be submitted before the standing committee meeting on April 27. The proposal prepared by NMC’s traffic department seeks permission to invite short tenders to procure towing machines. The proposal will increase fine for vehicles left in no-parking zones. As per the Motor Vehicles Act, the fine for keeping the vehicle in no-parking zone or causing obstruction to traffic on road is Rs200. As per the proposal, NMC will levy Rs400 for towing charges for four-wheeler, while it will be Rs200 for wrongly parked two-wheelers. Towing charges will also be increased 5% every year, the proposal says. The department proposes to keep 10% of the fines collected from the illegally parked vehicles. The firm winning the contract can collect fines only through digital payment mode, says the proposal. It also says that the traffic police will develop fine collection centres and the agency will be responsible for collection of fines. Charges of the firm will be recovered from the fine amount collected. A senior official from NMC’s traffic department said apart from floating tenders for private towing contractors, a fresh blueprint will be chalked out to park lifted or towed vehicles in all five traffic zones. To a query, the official said the process to mark parking and no-parking areas in the city is in final stages. Besides this, the civic administration has submitted six more proposals for various works. The workshop department has submitted a proposal to acquire excavator, JCB machine, tipper, crane, trailer and bulldozer on rent for two years. The fire and emergency services department has also submitted a proposal to acquire 32m hydraulic platform.