Agra: In a suspected suicide pact, a couple jumped to their death before a speeding train in Mathura district on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday. The 16-year-old girl was said to be in a relationship with 22-year-old boy, who was her relative.
 
  
  
  On Tuesday morning, passers-by spotted their mutilated bodies on the railway tracks near Farah railway station, close to Raipurajat-Piprautha road, and informed the police.
  
  
  
  In the past eight months, 10 couples have committed suicide in Agra zone. Meanwhile, the bodies have been sent for the post-mortem.
  
  
  
  According to police, the girl was living at her brother-in-law’s house in Mathura district’s Township locality and had come to   village, in the same district, on Sunday to attend a family function.
  
  
  
  Farah police station SHO Virendar Singh said, “Family members of the deceased claimed that both had been missing since Monday night. On Tuesday morning, however, their bodies were found on the railway tracks. Prima facie, it appears that the couple committed suicide, but we found no suicide note.”
  
  
  
  The bodies would be handed to the family after post-mortem, he added.
  
  
  
  “Family members of the couple have, however, refused to lodge a complaint in this connection,” said SHO.
  
  
  
  Earlier, on October 17, a teenaged couple committed suicide by hanging themselves from a tree in Atush village close to Mathura-Agra border. On July 23, Yogesh Kumar Yadav (20) and Manisha Yadav (18) allegedly committed suicide by jumping in front of a train in Bachhmai area of Firozabad district.
  
  
  
  On July 11, Vikram Yadav (22) and Ruby Yadav (21) of Sirauliya village, Firozabad, too jumped in front of a speeding train. On July 6, a minor school-going couple of Snauthi village allegedly committed suicide by jumping in front of a train in a remote village area of Kasganj district.
  
  
  
  On July 5, a 21-year-old youth shot himself dead after killing a school girl, supposedly his girlfriend. On June 7, Class X students found hanging from the ceiling of a room in Transport Nagar, Agra.
  
  
  
  Earlier on May 31, Devender Kumar (23) and Krishna Kumar (20) committed suicide by hanging themselves from a tree in Gopalpur village in Etah. On May 28, two students hanged themselves from a tree in Biharipur village of   in Agra.
  
  
  
  Similarly, on May 15, Bhanu Singh (20) and   (19) from Breheru village jumped in front of a speeding train in Agra after their parents rejected their relationship.
