
 MADURAI: The ruling   will hold a   in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry on Tuesday (April 3) in protest against the failure of the Centre in setting up the   and also for letting down the judiciary, a statement from AIADMK party headquarters late on Friday evening said.
 
 The statement, not signed by the party coordinator O Panneerselvam & joint coordinator  , which is usually the case ever since the two factions merged, was contrary to the “April 2 hunger fast” announced by OPS and seconded by EPS earlier in the day while participating in a mass wedding organised and conducted by them at Madurai in the morning.
 
 Chief Minister Eddapadi K Palaniswami had then said that hunger protests would be staged by the party on April 2 in all the district headquarters in the state against the failure of the central government to establish the Cauvery Management Board and that the public and farmers should support it. He was speaking to reporters at the Madurai airport after participating in the mass wedding conducted for 120 poor couples. He said that it was important that the feelings of the delta farmers and people were reflected in the protests to be held between 9 am and 5 pm. 
 
 On being asked if the state government would file a contempt of court petition against the central government, he said that the possibilities of doing so would be explored after consulting legal experts.
 
 He said that the AIADMK members of parliament had been demanding the implementation of the board ever since the parliament session started. There had even been instances when the proceedings of the house had to be stalled due to the uproar by the MPs.
 
 Referring to the DMK’s executive committee meeting held in Chennai on Friday, he said that he had come to know that the DMK had convened an all-party meet and that his party did not have an invitation for the same.
 
  “Such meetings should be conducted only by the government as we had also invited farmers and got their opinion on the same,’’ he said. The chief minister said that the state government would continue exerting pressure on the central government to set up the CMB.
 
 
