HYDERABAD: Will an agriculture-focused   rescue farmers in   that hugged the second position after Maharashtra in suicides? Agriculture experts and lawmakers from Telangana are hoping the minimum support price ( ) and other pro-farmer initiatives announced in the Union Budget on Thursday if implemented by the Centre will help farmers in distress in the state, which has 55.4 lakh farm holdings.

 According to a study by  , 3,026 farmers ended their lives in Telangana since statehood till June 2017. NCRB data too confirmed Telangana tops the list. The state government is already working on a separate budget for agriculture sector and the Union government initiatives have come in handy for it as the state will get its share of funds in various schemes announced in the budget.
 
  
  
 
 To double farmers’ income, the Union government announced Minimum Support Price for kharif, which will be at least one-and-half times the production cost.
 
 Telangana agriculture department principal secretary   said, “The Centre announced several initiatives and schemes like operation greens, rural haats for agriculture and food processing sector. We are yet to calculate how much will be the state’s share.”
 
 TRS MP   said “the important takeaway is the MSP. This time, we hope the government will truly raise the MSP of all crops by 50% or more. In 2017-18, similar announcements were made, but the highest per cent hike in MSP was a meagre 10.8 per cent for rabi crop.”
 
 Consortium of Indian Farmers Associations founder P   told TOI: “In Telangana, MSP for paddy is ?2,200 which they increased by 50 per cent and made it ?3,300. However, there is a rider in the Union minister’s speech that a mechanism will be developed in consultation with   and state governments. If the government wants to do it, they can do so directly. It is the job of Commission for Agriculture Costs and Prices to fix MSP. There is no mechanism to identify tenant farmers. In United AP, initial estimates was 5 lakh tenant farmers, but only 20,000 are given loans.”
 
 Another TRS MP   told TOI- ,“Being the election year, the Center has come out with a populist budget, rural development and farmer-related issues have got importance. However, they ignored some critical issues, like they allocated just ?11,000 crores for Animal Husbandry and ?2,000 crores for Horticulture. In comparison, the Telangana budget is more progressive and common man oriented than the Union Budget, Telangana had allocated ?4,000 crores, for sheep rearing alone,”
 
