BENGALURU: BS Yeddyurappa’s second day in office proved to be vastly different from his first. The office he had occupied just the day before after performing a puja, was locked after the   directed that he face a trust vote at 4pm Saturday.

 
 Before the verdict came, however, senior officials were summoned to his Dollars Colony residence. A rather relaxed  , around 8.30am, was briefed on the administrative situation in the state by chief secretary K Ratna Prabha, and on law and order by DG&IGP Neelamani Raju. The meeting lasted for half an hour.
 
 Party sources said that as on the first day, Yeddyurappa sought information on the modalities of the loan waiver and quizzed the CS on when the final figures would be computed.
 
 Meanwhile, Raju was quizzed on issues related to the law and order situation in the state, in specific the situation pertaining to the possible trust vote, which when he met her, was within a time-span of two weeks.
 
 After they left, Yeddyurappa was glued to the television, waiting for the SC verdict that was very critical for his survival as CM. When, finally, the SC delivered its ruling to hold the trust vote by Saturday 4pm, his mood turned sour, sources said.
 
 He appeared irritated and was even irate with the large media contingent parked outside his home.
 
 “I have decided to call for the assembly session on Saturday, and will abide by the SC orders. I am 100 per cent sure that I will get the required support from the legislators to prove a majority in the House. We will prove our majority, despite the political drama surrounding it,” he said.
 
 The new CM visited his office in   around 12.30pm. He called Raju to ensure security to all the MLAs, as mandated by the SC. He also spoke to Prabha to make necessary arrangements for the trust vote. After spending half an hour in the office, Yeddyurappa left to join his party’s manoeuvres to ensure his survival.
 
 He spent the rest of the day planning for Saturday, with senior party functionaries. By evening he was at Shangri-La Hotel -- the same used by JD(S) MLAs earlier -- with party MLAs drawing up the action plan for today.
 
 
