NEW DELHI: Clad in trademark saffron robes of a monk, Uttar Pradesh CM   has turned out to be 'in-demand' campaigner for BJP with his status as chief priest of the "Nath Panth" temple in Gorakhpur increasing his appeal in states where the 'Shaivite' sub sect has adherents. 

 On a two-day visit to poll-bound Tripura, Adityanath is looking to tilt a significant number of Nath sect followers towards BJP and help its prospects against the incumbent Manik Sarkar government, which is a formidable foe in its bastion and remains the front-runner in the assembly election. 
 
 "Tripura has a population of Nath sect followers, who are mostly OBC," Nikhil Devnath, the chief priest at Gorakshnath Temple in Agartala told TOI. The state has two temples at   and Agartala and followers are spread across the state and the adherents are largely Bengalis.
 
 Claiming to be apolitical, Devnath, however, expects quota for the OBC community, which they are not entitled for in the state. "There is no quota for the OBC community in the state as the state government has 48% for the SC/ST. We expect that our priest will take the matter to the relevant people," he added.
 
 Yogi's stewardship of the shrine associated with the medieval saint Gorakhnath along with his enhanced profile as CM of UP saw him campaign in the recent Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh elections and he was also a prominent face in BJP's campaign against "red terror" in Kerala. He now seems set to play a fairly big role in the ensuing state polls in the northeast as well as in Karnataka thereafter.
 
 Adityanath has also visited Karnataka, another poll-bound state, where he has wielded influence in "Maths" associated with the Nath tradition such as the Jogi Math in Mangaluru.
 
 During his Karnataka visit, Adityanath had stayed overnight at  , headed by Vokkaliga seer  , which was seen as a strategic alliance. BJP had posted photographs of Adityanath and Nirmalananda Nath with a message, "Yogi Adityanath on Saturday night stayed in Bengaluru, not at any five-star hotel but at the Adichunchunagiri Mutt, which belongs to the Nath sect." 
 
 The message was apparently to woo the electorate projecting Adityanath as an austere saint. 
 
 Adityanath has already been saffron star campaigner who is effective in polarising Hindu votes and can now add a governance label too with regard to law and order, health and power initiatives.
 
 
