Mumbai: Health activists, doctors and lawyers are floating a national   to champion   rights, highlight cases of medical negligence, and prevent “gross profiteering” by  . 

 The forum privatehospitalswatch.in will offer a platform for patient testimonials’, violations by private hospitals and campaigns by public health activists to build awareness and promote patient interest. It will provide a link with patients and other stakeholders and activists working on the cause. For example, it will connect with Jayant Singh (father of Adya Singh, who died of dengue at Fortis Hospital in Gurugram) and advocate Birendra Sangwan, who have been protesting against overcharging and negligence in corporate hospitals. Sangwan had campaigned for capping of prices of cardiac stents and filed cases in Delhi high court in 2014.
 
 Dr Abhay Shukla, a public health physician working on health issues in Maharashtra, and coordinator for SATHI, told newspersons here on Wednesday, the forum will follow up on effective capping prices of cardiac stents, and intensify efforts to ensure regulation of prices of implants and devices across the country. It will launch a campaign to reform private medical establishments keeping in view a successful campaign in Karnataka, and provide inputs on National Medical Commission Bill to ensure an empowered and multi-stakeholder ethics committee with a strong representation of patients’ rights in private hospitals.
 
 Despite resistance from the medical fraternity, Karnataka Janarogya Chaluvali (KJC), a network of health activists, pushed pro-people amendments in Karnataka Private Medical Establishment Bill. 
 
 Earlier in the day, a learning exchange workshop on patient rights brought together activists from diverse campaigns and networks by their concern regarding gross commercialization of healthcare and its negative impact on people. Over 60 health activists, doctors, public health experts and lawyers are attending the workshop on patients’ rights, organised by civil society organisations SATHI and CHSJ. 
 
 Dr Pravin Shingare, director of Medical Education and Research, Maharashtra, shared details about proposed legislation to curb the practice of cuts and commission. Prashanth K S, senior consultant at National Health System Resource Centre, gave details on the status of implementation of Clinical Establishment Act in 11 states. 
 
 National Human Rights Commission, with the help of experts, formulated a draft charter of patients’ rights. Once adopted, it will be applicable to public and private hospitals.
 
 
