BHOPAL: In a unique experiment   has decided to provide space to paintings by students on cover pages of its textbooks. It is aimed to keep students’ interest going in textbooks.

 Now lakhs of textbooks meant for class 1 to 12 students will feature paintings by children with their and school’s names on cover pages.
 
 The state school education department will send the information and paintings of students selected through a state-level painting competition to Madhya Pradesh   for printing.
 
 “Our students are very talented and we want to give them a platform where their skills would be encouraged. We have already selected the paintings through a state-level competition which we are soon going to publish as cover page across Madhya Pradesh,” said   director  .
 
 “Around 50 paintings have been selected from a state-level exhibition for the 43 textbooks prescribed by the department.”
 
 These textbooks will go to all the schools which follow state board,” he added.
 
 Besides encouragement, this move will help students to develop interest in studies and instill a competition among them to excel and get their names on state board’s textbook cover pages,   told TOI.
 
 The new textbooks will be in market from new academic session 2018-19. All the paintings were selected by an experienced committee comprising of artists from over 800 paintings collected from government schools across the state.
 
 The competition began from July to October last year. Of 800 paintings, 50 paintings have been selected which will be placed on the cover page of approximately 10 million books including subjects like English, mathematics, Urdu, Hindi, social science, environment, science and Sanskrit.
 
 In view of the talent of these students, the   is also planning to organise special painting classes for them during summer break. The classes will be held by famous artists.
 
 This is for the first time that the cover page of textbooks is being replaced by paintings made by students.
 
 Textbook Corporation of MP prints textbooks worth Rs 300 crore every year.
 
 
