CHANDIGARH: BSP supremo   is expecting the NDA government at the Centre to call for early Lok Sabha elections after BJP’s shock defeat in the by-elections in Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday. Addressing a rally in Chandigarh, one day after her gamble of backing   (SP) paid off, she said, “There is every possibility that the general elections could be held before the scheduled time in 2019.”

 The rally, attended by BSP supporters from Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, J&K and Chandigarh, was organised to mark her mentor Kanshi Ram’s 84th birth anniversary. It is being seen as a symbolic move given that   was a Punjabi from Ropar.
 
 To a thunderous applause from the crowd, she said, “BJP ki neend udi hui hai (BJP is having sleepless nights). They are apprehensive that things could get worse and may have elections before time. Before the next Lok Sabha elections, seven to eight states are going to have elections. After the two setbacks (in UP), BJP can have general elections with these assembly polls. They know the more the delay, the more the damage. We need TO start work on a war footing.”
 
 Mayawati told the large gathering in Chandigarh that all political parties want to phase out the reservation. “Reservation in promotion is already being reduced by the BJP government. It says BSP doesn’t talk about backward classes, but our party made the effort to implement the Mandal Commission’s report....”
 
 
 With her party wanting to expand in the northern region after UP, Mayawati tried to strike an emotional chord by saying, “I was being stopped from speaking in the   and thus I resigned as MP in July last year. Now we will have to take revenge for this in the upcoming general election. It will also be your tribute to Kanshi Ram, who worked in this region.”
 
 The former UP chief minister also said that the current government has been using central agencies like   and CBI against political opponents with the intention of weakening them. She also accused BJP of running a dictatorial government which had weakened democracy.
 
 BJP can’t make a new Bharat because it talks only about Hindutva and it is against the minorities, she added. “BJP has only made false promises. They had promised to bring the black money back within 100 days, which also proved to be a lie. Now, they have started make false promises afresh since elections are nearing,” she added.
 
