NEW DELHI: Her family was eagerly awaiting her return after dropping her eight-year-old son at a tuition centre in Begumpur near   so that they could leave for a wedding on Saturday evening. What they could never expect was that 40-year-old Darshana Vinayak wouldn’t be able to get decked up in finery and, instead, meet a tragic end after getting impaled by a 15-foot iron rod that fell from the second floor of an under-construction building next to the tuition centre. 

 The impact of the rod’s fall was such that it entered through her head and came out of her stomach.
 
 While the incident took place around 5.30pm on Saturday, Vinayak’s son, Shreyashth, was unaware of his mother’s death until Sunday noon. He was seen gleefully chatting with his tuition teacher, who was trying hard to hold back her tears after getting news of the tragedy. Shreyashth was excitedly telling her about hearing screams outside her house and how a prank was being played on someone. His world toppled when his father broke the news to him.
 
 A few years ago, when the child’s grandparents passed away his parents told him that they had become stars and would always shine down on him. His father told him the same thing about his mother.
 
 “But I wanted to share a joke with mummy. Wo sachi mein merese milne nahi ayengi ab? (Will she not come to meet me again?)” cried Shreyashth, while hugging his father as they brought home his mother’s body from the mortuary.
 
 An eyewitness, Yogesh, who rushed Vinayak to a hospital told TOI that even his wife had a close shave. “Darshana ji and my wife were close friends. Every time she would come to drop off Shreyshth for tuitions, they would chat for hours. But as she had to attend the wedding, she left early on Saturday. My wife was closing the door when she saw the rod falling on her and screamed. I rushed to see what had happened and couldn’t believe my eyes,” he added.
 
 Police said that a labourer was tying the rod around a concrete slab when it suddenly came off the metal binds and fell on her.
 
 She was rushed to a private hospital near their house, but seeing the gravity of the case they didn’t admit her saying they weren’t well-equipped to handle it. She was then taken to Saroj hospital where doctors declared her brought dead. She was subsequently taken to Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospital for autopsy. Her body was handed over to the family on Sunday afternoon.
 
 Around 12 labourers were working at the construction site at the time, but only one stayed back to help the woman. He tried to cut the rod, but in vain. A few people even tried to slowly pull out the rod, but seeing her writhing in pain they stopped. Someone then went to her house to inform her family.
 
 “While we were taking her to hospital in a car, it was difficult to close the rear doors because of the rod. One of us led on a two-wheeler while the others followed in cars,” said Suresh Vinayak, the victim’s brother-in-law.
 
 Vinayak had done her PhD in Sanskrit and was teaching Hindi at a private school near her house. Her husband is a senior bank manager. They live in Pocket 10 in Rohini Sector 21.
 
 A police source said that one person has been detained in the case. DCP (Rohini) Rajneesh Gupta said they have lodged a case of causing death due to negligence.
 
 
  
 
 
