NOIDA: A 48-year-old man fell to his death on Sunday morning from the third floor balcony of his house in Sector 27 after allegedly being pushed by his daughter and her boyfriend when he got into a fight with the latter. 

 His daughter has been arrested, while her boyfriend is on the run, police said.
 
 Vishwanath Sahu, who later died of injuries he suffered in the fall, had found his 21-year-old daughter with her boyfriend Dharmendra in her room around 4 am on Sunday. 
 
 He first started scolding the duo and then got into a physical fight with Dharmendra. His daughter jumped into the fight to save her 27-year-old boyfriend and the two beat up Vishwanath, leading to the fall, family members said.
 
 “My father was pushed from the balcony of the third floor of the building and he fell into the space between our building and the one right next. My sister and Dharmendra immediately fled the spot. We suspect her involvement too because even she did not stay back to check my father’s condition,” Vishwanath’s son Sanjay told TOI.
 
 The sound of Vishwanath’s fall and his screams woke up his wife Gayatri. She immediately took her husband to the district hospital in Sector 30 from where he was referred to Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital.
 
 “Doctors at Safdarjung hospital told us there was only 5% chance of his survival as he had a serious injury leading to clotting of blood in the head. He passed away around 2.30 pm on Sunday at the hospital,” Sanjay said. Family members said the woman and Dharmendra, a sales executive in a mobile showroom in  , were in a relationship for the past two years but he had been reluctant to marry her.
 
  “He would always dilly-dally when it came to marriage. At times, he would say that his mother was unwell and make different excuses,” said Sanjay. 
 
 Based on Gayatri’s complaint, an FIR has been lodged against Vishwanath’s daughter and Dharmendra under Section 304A of IPC (death by negligence).
 
  “The woman was arrested early on Monday morning from near her house in Sector 27. Dharmendra is absconding. We are trying to nab him too,” said SHO of Sector 27 police station, Anil Shahi.
 
 
