Nagpur: Divisional commissioner Anoop Kumar feels merely considering   as a national language will not promote it, rather bind it in official boundaries. “Hindi is a language of communication which connects our country, it is the language of the people. It is the third most-spoken language in the world,” he said.

 Kumar was speaking at the inauguration of the two-day international-level conference and research   organized on the occasion of International Hindi Day, at Rajiv Gandhi National Institute of Intellectual Property Management, Civil Lines, on Wednesday. International Hindi Association, (IHA) USA, Maharashtra, Bharat Chapter, Nagpur, has organized the event for the first time in Nagpur.
 
 Dr Girishwar Mishra, vice-chancellor of Mahatma Gandhi International Hindi University, Wardha, said, “It has taken 1,200 years for Hindi to take to its present form. Hindi is like a family, which includes Bhojpuri, Awadhi, Braj and others which have made it strong. It encompasses different traditions,” he said.
 
 The seminar was inaugurated by Yagyaprasad Tiwari, while Sushila Mohankar presided over. Mohankar stressed how abroad little children are first taught Hindi over other languages. “This has strengthened roots of the language,” he said.
 
 One of the highlights of the event was the launch of the website, www.ihaindia.org, created by member of IHA and IT professional Vicky Kumar. “The website will enable small children to learn Hindi while youth can gain job-oriented knowledge,” he said.
 
 Nine Hindi books penned by writers from Nagpur and other states were released and local bodies working towards promotion of Hindi language were felicitated.
 
 A panel discussion on ‘Hindi as a national language and personality skills’ was moderated by Dr Ashok Tripathi, former director of Prasar Bharati. Pradeep Dixit, president of IHA Uttar Pradesh branch, Hindi writers Ila Kumar and Nalini Purohit of Baroda discussed how Hindi was restricted during the Mughal and British era, yet prospered as a language of expression.
 
 “In Nagpur, most people communicate in Hindi. At this event, we have delegates from New York, New Jersey and Australia, apart from other states including Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Goa, Tamil Nadu and others,” Veena Dadhe, secretary of IHA Nagpur Chapter and professor at Nagpur University’s Hindi department told TOI.
 
 A slide show on the foundation of IHA and its history was shown, followed by a cultural programme. Artiste Supantha Bhattacharya presented a play ‘Babul Mora’ while Dr Sharad Suneri recited poems.
 
 
