CHANDIGARH: Chandigarh administration has framed rules for regularising operations of saw mills and   industry operating in the city. The rules namely Chandigarh Regulation of Saw Mills, Veneer and Plywood Industries Rules have been framed by the department of forest and wildlife.

 At present a large number of saw mills are running illegally in the city. Under the rules, the administration has imposed restriction on establishment of saw mills, veneer and plywood industries. The administration has imposed a ban on operation of such units without licence.
 
 Any person seeking a licence under these rules will have to make an application to the deputy conservator of forest. The licence will be granted for a period of one year which will be renewed. For renewal of the licence, the applicant will have to apply within a period of six months before the expiry of the period for which licence was granted along with prescribed fee. In case, the renewal of licence is refused, the deputy conservator of forest will provide an opportunity of being heard to the person concerned and record the reasons for refusing renewal.
 
 The rules requires licencee to maintain proper record of the receipt and disposal of timber and will have to produce the record for scrutiny and checking of the timber whenever required by the deputy conservator of the forests or any other officer authorised by him. Deputy conservator of forests has been given the power of revoke licence of those who fail to comply with the laid down norms. Those not following the rules will be liable for punishment of imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months or with fine, which may extend to two thousand rupees.
 
 Last year, Chandigarh   ( ) had initiated action against 38 saw mills for allegedly violating environment norms. As per norms, the consent to establish has to be obtained before establishment of an industry, operation or a process, while consent to operation has to be obtained prior to the commission of an industry and for continuation of discharge of emission and effluents.
 
 
