Goodbye holidays, hello work! It’s time to get back to the grind after the Christmas to New Year week of fun and partying. But that apart, December — and the chill it brings — is also the perfect month for holidaying. So workouts take a backseat, and people pile on the calories.

 “Losing the extra kilos post the festive or holiday season becomes a bit difficult as coming out of that relaxed mode takes quite a bit of time,” says actress  . 
 
 With every New Year, we take the resolution of losing weight and staying in shape, but how many of us actually fulfill the resolution? We hit the gym for the first few weeks of the New Year, but motivation ebbs and   doesn’t happen. “In this festive season, there is a massive calorie surplus which can increase body weight by two to five kg. This is mostly abdominal fat, comprising of subcutaneous and visceral fat,” adds celebrity wellness expert, Dr Supratim Akaash Paul.
 
 The doctor’s words are echoed by youngsters. “We love to party and gorge on junk food, but when it comes to losing weight, we are extremely lazy. Every year, many of my friends take the resolution of losing weight but very few succeed in fulfilling the resolution,” says  , a thirdyear student of Bhawanipur Education Society College.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Every morning, have a glass of lukewarm water mixed with two tablespoons of edible extra virgin coconut oil on an empty stomach
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 After drinking the detox tonic, one can do High Intensity Interval Training (HIIT) for 20 minutes which will boost your metabolism and give you a total body workout. You can use the treadmill, the stair mill, rowing machine, spin bike or the Jacob’s ladder.
 
 
 
 
 Have a healthy and filling breakfast, which includes egg, protein shake and whole wheat bread with cheese
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 To burn the extra holiday calories, your body should get into a fat loss mode. Diet should comprise high calculated protein, high good fat, soluble and insoluble fibre and no carbohydrates. This should be a 21-day routine
 
 
 
 
 All problems start from the gut. Take probiotics in the form of fermented food in your diet like yogurt, kombucha, kimchi salad and kefir. These will help to create and maintain a healthy gut
 
 
 
 
 Drink a glass of warm skimmed milk mixed with pure cinnamon powder. This will help you get sound sleep and reduce your cortisol levels and balance your serotonin levels. This will stop you from binge eating and will also help you burn your fat while sleeping
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The simplest way to stay in shape is to do skipping every morning. Also, if I party a lot and eat outside on one evening, I make sure that I balance it off the next day by eating home-cooked food for breakfast, lunch and dinner and avoid binge eating while I am in college 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 Due to our erratic lifestyle, the cortisol level is always high in today’s individuals. So, when one gives their diet a miss during the festive or holiday season, emotional eating takes place. The serotonin hormone, or the happy hormone, increases, making one feel euphoric. The result is gorging on all your favourite dishes that tickle your taste buds
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 In order to get back in shape after the party season, one should keep a tab on their regular diet for the next one month. Start your day with a lemon squeezed in warm water with a dash of honey. Also having green tea twice or thrice a day helps in losing fat. Go low on carbs and jog for 10 minutes every day for three weeks 
 
 
 
 
 
 
