PATNA: Darbhanga has emerged as the strong contender in the state for commercial flight operations under the Centre’s much-ambitious regional connectivity scheme (RCS).

 If   (AAI) sources are to be believed,   has won the bid to operate flights from Darbhanga airstrip. The private airline has planned flights to Delhi, Bengaluru and Mumbai from Darbhanga.   sources said the bidding was held three months back in the national capital in which Kishanganj airstrip was also in the race. However, no airline showed interest to operate flights from Kishanganj. Sources said after Darbhanga, Purnia might be the second airstrip in the state from where commercial flights would operate in the near future.
 
 The commercial flights from Darbhanga are likely to operate from the Indian Air Force (IAF) base spread over an area of 400 acres on the outskirts of the town. The runway at Darbhanga is at least 8,000-feet long in which aircrafts like A-320, extensively used by domestic carriers, can easily operate. “In comparison to   airport, the runway at Darbhanga is at least 1,000-feet longer,” they said, adding the basic infrastructure will be of IAF and the Indian Oil Corporation has agreed to supply fuel to commercial aircrafts through browsers (oil tankers).
 
 According to official sources, the first commercial flight may take off from Darbhanga within 10 months.
 
 Captain D K Singh, director (operation), state civil aviation directorate, said the state government had sent proposals to AAI for commercial flight operations from Bhagalpur, Kishanganj, Madhubani, Saran, Purnia and Darbhanga airfields under RCS. “However, except Darbhanga and Purnia, proposals for rest of the towns were rejected as their runways are hardly 3,000-feet long,” he said.
 
 Singh said after Darbhanga, IAF base at Purnia would be developed for civil aviation purpose. “A sum of Rs 20 crore has been allocated to Purnia district administration for acquisition of 50 acres of land,” Singh added.
 
 AAI sources said the runway length at Purnia is 9,000-feet and it can handle variety of aircrafts.
 
 Patna airport director Rajender Singh Lahauria said the IAF might take up concrete re-carpeting work of Darbhanga airstrip runway phase wise to increase its strength to handle commercial aircrafts.
 
 The jump in civil aviation sector in state could be gauged from the fact that 31.1 lakh flyers were handled by Patna airport last financial year against 21.2 lakh flyers handled in 2016-2017. The airport has the capacity to handle just seven lakh flyers annually.
 
 AAI sources said while capacity of terminal building of Patna airport would be increased to handle 45 lakh flyers annually in future, the upcoming Bihta airport will handle 30 lakh flyers annually.
 
 AAI sources said almost all the districts in state have airfields. The ones at Kishanganj, Muzaffarpur and Raxaul are owned by AAI, while Darbhanga, Bihta and Purnia have IAF bases. Patna and Gaya have two full-fledged civil airports.
 
 
