PATNA: The  , which has an alliance with Lalu Prasad’s Rashtriya Janata Dal ( ) in the state, on Sunday announced that it will not take part in the bypolls to Araria   and Jehanabad Assembly seats. The party, however, is keen to field its candidate for bypolls to Bhabua Assembly constituency.

 Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) acting president Kaukab Quadri said the RJD had won Araria Lok Sabha and Jehanabad Assembly seats in previous elections and there was no logic for Congress to throw hat into the ring.
 
 “Former RJD MP from Araria late Mohd Taslimuddin and former Jehanabad MLA late   had a strong support base in their respective constituencies. Hence, we decided to stay away from these two seats. Since Congress and RJD are together in the state, we will try to contest the bypolls with mutual understanding,” Quadri said.
 
 He, however, added the party was keen to field its candidate in Bhabua Assembly constituency. “JD (U) had fielded its candidate in Bhabua in 2015 when it was a part of the Grand Alliance. However, BJP’s Bhushan Pandey won the seat,” Quadri said, adding the Congress high command will soon hold talks with RJD to finalise candidate for the Bhabua seat. Former BPCC president Ashok Choudhary too said the RJD should leave Bhabua Assembly seat for Congress.
 
 RJD too seemed to be soft on Bhabua seat, with its national vice-president Shivanand Tiwari saying the party will take a final decision only after holding talks with the Congress.
 
 Sources said the two sons of ex-Jehanabad MLA Mundrika Singh Yadav – Uday Yadav and Sujay Yadav – are staking their claims on the seat. However, if sources are to be believed, the seat will go to Sujay’s kitty.
 
 In Araria parliamentary constituency also, late Taslimuddun’s elder son Moquimmudin and second son Sarfaraz Alam had decided to contest. However, Moquimmuddin withdrew from the race after his younger brother agreed to leave JD (U) and join RJD.
 
 Byelections to the three seats will be held on March 11 and the process for filing of nomination papers will begin on February 13. The last day of filing of nomination papers is February 20. 
 
 
