PUNE: Villagers of   and   on Friday demanded compensation for the damage on January 1, saying that they were being painted the villains when they were the victims of the violence.

 They also blamed the administration and the police for not doing enough to prevent the damage, especially when they knew that trouble had been brewing since the conflict in   village after the samadhi of   (Gaikwad) was vandalized. 
 
 They said they should not be harassed in the name of investigations and false cases should not be filed against them. “We will start a jail bharo agitation if we find that our youths are being implicated in false cases,” deputy chairperson of Sanaswadi gram panchayat   told TOI. She addressed a news conference near Koregaon Bhima gram panchayat on Friday. 
 
 The villagers also demanded that police must find the real culprits who had come “prepared” from Mumbai, Marathwada and Vidarbha and torched vehicles, damaged shops and threatened the villagers. They said they had no animosity towards the dalits in their villages where people live in harmony.
 
 Jaiprakash Shinde, whose automobile showroom in Koregaon Bhima was damaged in the violence, said “youths carrying blue flags” targeted certain shops and establishments . “They also attacked the police,” he added.
 
 Shinde said every year the villages offer food and water to dalits who come to pay their respect at the memorial in Koregaon Bhima. 
 
 “This year, we decided to keep our establishments shut because of the escalating tension after the Vadhu Budruk episode,” he said 
 
 Organizers of the programme to celebrate 200 years of the battle should be held responsible for the violence and they, along with the administration, should pay compensation, Shinde said, adding that both villages have been tarnished for no fault of theirs. 
 
 Shinde said they will assist the dalits when they visit the memorial next year provided the state government gave it in writing that there will be no repeat of this year’s violence.
 
 Hargude told TOI villagers and shops in Sanaswadi were ready to offer their hospitality to the dalits on January 1 but decided to close their shops when they heard that establishments and hotels in Koregaon Bhima were damaged and the mob, after attacking the villagers, was moving towards Sanaswadi.
 
 “Youths from Sanaswadi stood guard at the village entrance and saved us. There were no policemen so we had to defend ourselves from the rampaging mob which also damaged the village temple,” she said. 
 
 They have CCTV footage of the attacks, she added. Hargude said sections of the media were saying that Koregaon Bhima and Sanaswadi villagers started the violence. “Why would we burn our vehicles and shops? When people started pelting stones and burning vehicles, we had to stop them.” 
 
 The senior officer, associated with the probe, said, “We won't take a call on arresting Ekbote and Bhide unless we come across clear evidence about their roles in the violence. From the video and audio clips examined till Friday afternoon, we have not come across such evidence.” Investigators have nearly 600 video and audio clips for scrutiny.
 
 The rural police have adopted a more circumspect approach. The officer said, “On Thursday evening, a team of Rural police had gone to arrest a suspect after confirming his involvement in the January 1 violence. When our vehicles reached, all the villagers gathered near the suspect’s house and did not allow the team to take the suspect into custody.”
 
 
