Chennai Times! That’s what 2018 will be remembered as by cricket lovers. The much-awaited comeback of our beloved Chennai Super Kings and the fabulous exploits of our homies, our very own Chennai boys in the Nidahas Cup have been the toast of the town. How cool was it, to hear machi and parava illai on the pitch! Thank you, Dinesh, Washington and  , for making Tamil camaraderie fashionable! 

 While   players would regularly find berths in team India, their stints would invariably lonely and short-lived. So it’s really exciting to see the Chennai triumvirate doing so well for themselves. For the very first time (as far as I can tell at least), TN players are the dominant rising stars in the national side, as well as in the Indian Premier League. With three players in the national side and several more rocking the league format, TN seems to have well come into its own against its more acknowledged competitors. Bombay and Delhi have always been considered the traditional powerhouses of Indian Cricket, right from the days of the British Raj. And then of course, there’s Bengaluru — Karnataka actually holds the distinction of producing the maximum number of team India caps ever! Remember when the Karnataka quartet of Dravid, Srinath, Kumble and Prasad held sway over the Indian team? It’s sweet irony that today, the Royal Challengers Bangalore team has no one from Karnataka, but features two young men from  ! 
 
 Without a doubt, the rise of TN players to prominence has been fuelled by the high-octane success of TNPL. Who would have even imagined three years ago that the absence of CSK would actually result in more cricket than ever in this region? Who could have prophesied the unearthing of an entire generation of talented youngsters from all across TN! Three years down the line, it is now quite impossible to ignore our boys in any selection or auction. TNPL finds have been swooped up by virtually every   team, with our very own Chennai Boys Dinesh Karthik and Ashwin captaining two of them.
 
 With the exception of Venkataraghavan, K Srikkanth and Ravichandran Ashwin, Tamil Nadu cannot really boast of too many cricket superstars…the kind that fans, statisticians and advertisers love alike. Now, it looks like time to catch up. With our boys really rocking it, be it for team India or the IPL, the next big thing to hit the marquee in all probability will be a Chennai king, whichever way you slice it.
 
 My money is on Dinesh Karthik. Man of the match, Man of the moment. The man who set all of India snake dancing in glee; The man who sent every cricket fan on a hunt for Tamil lessons. They say it only takes a moment to change a life. For Karthik, that moment was eight balls long. That incredible last ball six that won us the Nidahas cup has reignited a lot of comparisons to MS Dhoni. Actually, the similarities between the two wicket-keeper batsmen run deeper. I don’t suppose many may remember that Dinesh and Dhoni both made their international debuts in 2004, and that Karthik is actually senior to Dhoni. It took one of the best wicket-keeper/batsmen ever to have helmed India, to supplant Dinesh.
 
 For fourteen long years, Dinesh has patiently waited for his moment in the sun, holding up resolutely and in the giant shadow of MS Dhoni. He walked over every hurdle, professional and personal front, with a smile on his lips and hope in his heart. And now, his time has come. And as they say, “Jab Bhagwan deta hai, tho chappad phaadke deta hai”....“Kudukkura deivam, kooraiyai pichchukittu kudukkuthu ippo”.
 
 If a book on perseverance and conviction in the face of adversity were to be written, Dinesh Karthik would be the perfect protagonist. People who know him talk about his incredible cheer and positivity as much as his cricketing chops. Dinesh Karthik is a role model, not only for his on field heroics, but also for gratitude and humility. He has never failed to credit his mentor, Mumbai’s Abhishek Nayar, for shaping his mental and physical fortitude. He has repeatedly acknowledged his parents, who stood by him through thick and thin. This humility, in my mind, is the essence of “being Madrasi”.
 
 You know how they say all good things come to those who wait? The romantic in me cannot stop sighing fondly over the couple pictures of Karthik and his wife, Squash superstar Dipika Pallikal. No stranger to the capricious world of international sport, she has most certainly hugely influenced Karthik’s continuing rise.
 
 This IPL season, when the lions in yellow walk out into Chepauk stadium to meet Kolkata Knight Riders, we will be cheering our Chennai team just as much as the Chennai boy leading the other side ! 
 
 (Views expressed above are the author’s own)
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
