GURUGRAM: India Meteorological Department ( ) on Sunday issued a   warning for Haryana and other states, including J&K, Himachal and Punjab, as a western disturbance was approaching these regions. 

 Officials said moderate rainfall activity will take place in Gurugram city and other parts of  . “An active western disturbance will affect Western Himalayas and the North-West Indian plains on May 6 through May 9, with peak activity expected on May 8,” an IMD official said.
 
 He added that along with rainfall, there could be high-intensity wind squalls across NCR. Wind speed, he said, is likely to exceed 50kmph. Dust and hail storms are expected in Haryana and Punjab on May 8.
 
 Following the warning, in a letter issued to district education officers and elementary education officers, Rajiv Rattan, the Haryana special secretary for school education said, “In view of the western disturbance alert, the government has decided all the educational institutions/schools (government and private) will remain closed between May 7-8, 2018.” 
 
 As a result, around 350 private schools and 575 government schools across the city will remain closed. Principal Aparna Erry of DAV School, Sector 14, said, “We’ve sent out messages to parents. It’s inconvenient for us, but we have to look at the safety of students.”
 
 Vaibhav Kapoor, principal of Ajanta Public School, said, “We came to know of the order on Sunday evening. This is not the first time we’ve received an intimidation so late, but we’ll still close our school.” 
 
 Nirmala Sheoran, principal of the Gwalpahari government school, said, “We’ve asked teachers to tell parents who live nearby that the school will remain closed.” 
 
 About a World Red Cross Day programme to be held in the city on May 8, Red Cross Gurugram secretary Shyam Sunder said, “This is a state-level function and won’t be cancelled. Additional deputy commissioner R K Singh said, “We will take a call on the Red Cross event on Monday morning.”
 
 With Inputs from Shakir Mir
 
 
