Vasco: Residents of Air Vice Marshal E W Pinto Marg (  road), Chicalim, had to be evacuated early Friday morning after a tanker carrying 15,000 litres of   overturned and leaked. While the leak was contained within half-an-hour, the tanker was set upright only by 9am. One elderly citizen was rushed to Cottage hospital, Chicalim, and was later discharged

 Sources said that it was tanker driver Dada Vithal Choudhary, a resident of Zuarinagar, who alerted the directorate fire and emergency services, at 2.42am, which in turn alerted the   fire station. 
 
 “The ammonia-loaded tanker was on its way to   Chemicals Ltd (ZACL). In attempting to avoid collision with a speeding taxi, the driver applied the brakes, which caused the tanker to overturn,” public relation officer, ZACL, Anand Rajadhyaksha said. 
 
 At 2.50am, when the first water tender from the Vaso fire station reached the accident site, the ammonia fumes were so thick that visibility was rendered poor. A total of nine water tenders had to be pressed into service to control the leak, including two belonging to ZACL and one to MPT. Fire tenders from Panaji and Margao were also called in.
 
 “Ammonia is lighter than air and, hence, we had to take several necessary precautions, including donning chemical suits and using breathing apparatus. Also, in order to reduce the toxic effect of the gas, we had to first dilute the fumes by spraying a fine mist of water,” station fire officer Francisco Mendes said.
 
 It took fire fighters half-an-hour to control the leak. Meanwhile, the Vasco and Verna police cordoned off the airport road and diverted traffic. ZACL officials were also present at the site.
 
 Police personnel also went house-to-house in the vicinity requesting residents to vacate the area. Officials, however, said that many failed to understand the gravity of the situation and some even refused to open their doors. Deputy collector Mahadev Arondekar had to instruct police and fire fighting personnel to continuously sound off the sirens on their vehicles so that people understand the emergency of the situation.
 
 By 9am, the tanker was set upright and doused with water to prevent any leakage from spreading, before being towed away ZACL premises.
 
 The driver of the tanker has been arrested by the Vasco police and his version of the speeding taxi being investigated. 
 
 The three schools in the vicinity of the accident site — Regina Mundi, Navy Children School and Vidya Mandi School — remained shut for the day. 
 
 
