PANAJI: North Goa planning and development authority’s (NGPDA) nod for a commercial-cum-residential building in a 5,839 sq m plot of low-lying paddy field has upset farmers, as yet another cultivable parcel of land is set to disappear.

 The planning body has permitted landfilling under Section 17-A and regularization of land already reclaimed earlier under Section 17-B of Town and Country Planning (TCP) Act, 1974, in the plot under survey number 292/1 of   panchayat.
 
 ‘The conversion sanad has been issued by additional collector dated March 10, 2017,’ states the copy of the approval letter issued to the property developer. Various conditions to carry out the filling as per the drawing, maintain drainage to ensure uninterrupted flow of water, among others, have been stipulated in the grant of permission.
 
 The project, on completion, will stand almost cheek-by-jowl with Taleigao church in the foothills of Nagalli, once a verdant watershed area, now losing its green cover for development activity.
 
 Villagers aware about the transformation of their area into an urbanized suburb of   are worried about the shrinking paddy fields. “The Nagalli   below the hill range are experiencing flooding for about a decade due to blocking of streams of St Inez creek,” Xavier Almeida, a local activist, said.
 
 The creek originating in Nagalli hills has silted heavily. “Any reclamation here has to be assessed for its environmental impact due to displacement of water,” Almeida said. Agreeding with him, Candido Dias, a progressive farmer said that the inundation of fields will worsen due to siltation of St Inez creek.
 
 “We will not be able to cultivate what remains of our fields in a once-beautiful village,” he said.
 
 The plot near the church and cemetery is being reclaimed for a few years. Complaints by villagers led to the arrest of a truck driver for dumping mud while another person was arrested for levelling the field using machinery. This culminated in the withdrawal of the first information report. While the police had cited helplessness in filing the chargesheet in the landfilling case due to lack of cooperation from TCP, NGPDA had urged them recently to withdraw the case, as land conversion has been carried out.
 
 The property developer had purchased the land from an earlier builder, who had denied knowledge of the reclamation in his property.
 
 The paddy fields under survey number 292/1 had been shown as agricultural land (A-2) in Regional Plan (RP) 2021. But NGPDA has claimed that in an order issued to the project developer, the zone of area as per outline development (ODP) for Taleigao is settlement zone.
 
 Village activists, who obtained information under the Right to Information Act, also learnt that the cultivable land under the same survey number had been converted for non-agricultural purpose by then chief town planner (CTP) R N Ray, in a letter dated November 25, 1998. “But these conversions in 1998 notified in the official gazette lack legal sanctity, as they were done under Section 39 (2) of TCP Act, which allows only minor changes in land use and not heavy constructions,” a villager said.
 
 
