Salem: Flyers from Salem and its surrounding areas have a reason to rejoice as their long-pending demand for a direct flight to Chennai would finally realise on March 25. Turbo Megha Airways Private Limited, the low-cost regional airline, would operate a flight between Salem and Chennai. The flight will take off from Chennai at 9.50am and land at Salem at 10.40am. It would then leave for Chennai at 11am and reach there after a 50-minute journey at 11.50am. The fare is fixed at Rs 1,499, inclusive of all taxes. Bookings would commence on Tuesday and one has to log on to www.trujet.com. “The Turbo Megha Airways Private Limited operates flights under the brand name of Trujet,” said an airport official, who didn’t want to be named. Talking to TOI, he said the regional airline was based in Hyderabad. The Salem airport was established in 1993. NEPC was the first private airline to operate flights between Chennai and Coimbatore via Salem. The airline, however, stopped its operations, citing low passenger traffic. The airport was subsequently shut for more than 16 years. In 2009, Kingfisher Airlines operated flights from Salem to Chennai via Coimbatore as a result of combined efforts by Salem Productivity Council, Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industries and BJP. This service too was stopped in 2011 and the airport was closed again. However, it was in use by companies such as JSW Steel Limited, Triveni Group of Companies, Kalyan Jewelers, TVS Group of Companies and people with their own chartered flights.  With 6000ft long runway, Salem airport can handle flights such as ATR-72 and B-737-200. The airport can also park two aircrafts at a time. Local travel agents pointed out that Salem city has a good traffic potential, particularly from the business community who regularly travel to Chennai, Bengaluru, New Delhi, Kolkatta and Hyderabad, and student population, thanks to the mushrooming number of educational institutions in and around the district. “All will be benefitted if Salem airport resumes flight services,” said K Srinivasan, one of the travel agents. Goods booking agents, meanwhile, pitched for air-cargo facility at Salem airport. “All the goods are being transported through train and by road. The businessmen will be benefitted if air-cargo started at Salem airport,” said K Jagadeesh, another travel agent. BJP Salem district president R P Gopinath thanked prime minister Narendra Modi, Union civil aviation minister Ashok Gajapathi Raju, minister of state for finance and shipping Pon Radhakrishnan for their support to resume flight services from Salem airport.