NAGPUR: Former BJP MP   on Thursday alleged that a cousin of chief minister   had threatened a lawyer for filing a petition against CM’s election irregularities in Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court. He demanded Fadnavis’ resignation on moral grounds.

 Addressing a press conference, Patole said that CM, in his election affidavit for 2014 assembly election, had mentioned that 22 police cases were registered against him. “Whereas the fact is that 24 police cases are going on against him. One of the cases was registered under Section 420 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and a lower court had granted bail to the CM. The case is still going on in the court,” the ex-MP said.
 
 A controversial lawyer Satish Uke had filed a PIL against Fadnavis in this case. He was being represented by Abhiyan Barapatre. CM’s cousin   called up Barapatre and threatened him to withdraw the petition. Patole played the recording of the call in the press conference.
 
 Patole further said that Barapatre had lodged a complaint with Ajni police but a case was yet to be registered against Sanjay Fadnavis. “The police should immediately book him,” the ex-MP demanded.
 
 The ex-BJP leader also slammed the then Nagpur district collector for not disqualifying Fadnavis for providing misleading information in his election affidavit.
 
 Meanwhile, the HC on Thursday adjourned the hearing on Uke’s plea (WP No. 983/2016) challenging the election of the CM, after State Election Commission (SEC) sought time to file reply. The CM fought assembly from the   constituency in 2014. A special division bench comprising Bhushan Dharmadhikari and   adjourned the hearing by four weeks.
 
 The petitioner, who appeared in-person, challenged Fadnavis’ elections under Section 100(1)(d)(i) and (iv) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, for improper acceptance of his nomination papers by returning officer. He contended that the CM deliberately suppressed pendency of two criminal cases against him in affidavit, thus misleading the voters.
 
 Commenting on the controversy, an official from chief minister’s officer (CMO), said, “The petitioner did not get any relief from HC in this matter. At present out of the 22 cases, 20 cases have been closed and only one private complaint is being heard in the court. Patole is making an issue out of nothing.” 
 
 
