BENGALURU: A class 8 dropout with a personal collection of over 500 crime movies from Sandalwood to Hollywood, his civil services aspirant-brother and their two associates have been arrested in connection with four jewellery shop heists and three bike-lifting cases.

 Police have seized gold worth Rs 43 lakh and four four-wheelers and as many twowheelers worth Rs 57 lakh from the quartet, saying they expect more recoveries.
 
 Police commissioner T Suneel Kumar on Friday said that   alias Samrat alias Shivamurthy, 30, a resident of Kothanur, his brother  , 26, associates  , 29, from Whitefield and  , a resident of Sangli in Maharashtra and owner of a silver melting unit in Chennai, were arrested when cops were pursuing a botched bid to loot   in  .
 
 Shivu used only stolen two-wheelers in all the robberies. Three of the four successful heists targetted Chemmanur outlets.
 
 
 
 
 Police said Shivu, the mastermind, and his brother had almost escaped after looting three jewellery shops in 2011-12 and disposing of the booty with Jagadish’s help for Rs 1.4 crore in Sri Lanka. But the duo’s decision to employ a new modus operandi after blowing up the fortune proved to be their undoing. After watching movies and YouTube videos on heists, Shivu decided to shift from pepper spray to petrol bombs and bullet-proof vests. He thought the vests would safeguard them from flying debris when the bombs exploded, officers said.
 
 The novel strategy worked the first time in   in July 2017 where the brothers, aided by Nivesh and Jagadish, looted a Chemmanur Jewellers outlet after lobbing a petrol bomb into the premises. But the smoke restricted the booty size and they could flee with only 600gm gold.
 
 Then they decided to try their luck at Chemmanur Jewellers in Rajajinagar. On February 19, astride three Bajaj Pulsars, the quartet hurled petrol bombs towards the outlet. They also attacked and injured a guard with a sword but another guard opened fire. Shankar was injured in the leg when the bombs exploded, and the gang fled empty-handed.
 
 DCP (north) Chetan Singh Rathor formed four teams to nab the culprits. They analyzed CCTV footage and found the bikers had sped towards Devanahalli. The top cop announced a reward of Rs 2 lakh for the team which apprehended the gang.
 
