NEW DELHI: A day after the AAP government tabled a white paper in the assembly,   Anil Baijal’s office hit back with a strongly worded point-by-point rebuttal. It said that the “so-called” outcome report contained “incorrect and misleading information”. 

 Read also: 
 
 
 The LG office highlighted that 97% of 10,000 files received from the elected government since it came to power in 2015 have been “approved as received in the LG office”. On the remaining 3%, the LG said “decision-making would be much faster if the elected government followed rules and did due diligence”. It was a sort of advice to the Arvind Kejriwal government. 
 
  “Files or proposals which are pending with the elected government for a long time have been shown to be pending with the office of the lieutenant governor, which is incorrect,” the LG office said. 
 
 It also pointed out cases that were not included in the   government’s report. One of them was the case of   where “the file remained pending with the minister for more than two years (768 days) without any reason”. 
 
 The LG office also asserted that it has “not received a copy of the so-called outcome report and has also not been consulted while making the report”. 
 
 Detailed case studies on file movement have brought out LG’s side of the story and given insights into the governance challenges before Delhi. The LG’s ‘factual account’ begins with an assertion on the constitutional position. It’s done by pointing out that Delhi has a special status and is a Union territory with the roles of the Centre, LG and the elected government clearly defined. 
 
 “It may be noted that this scheme of constitutional governance has been in existence in Delhi since 1993 and past governments have shared a harmonious relationship with the office of the LG. However, the present elected government has deliberately and persistently chosen to act in contravention of scheme of governance,” the LG office has said. 
 
 It has also argued that the AAP government’s stance that the LG “is not supposed to carry out any due diligence on matters referred to him is not correct”. “Only those proposals which have been submitted by the elected government in violation of the laid down procedure or with incomplete details are referred back for clarification.” 
 
 The LG argues that this is important “as a large number of decisions of the elected government have been declared null and void by the high court”. The LG has cited examples of notifications for constituting commission of inquiry, appointment of nominee directors of discoms and minimum circle rates to buttress his point. 
 
 The LG has also highlighted the mohalla clinic project and pointed out that in the pilot project itself a number of serious complaints about “favouritism to AAP volunteers in selection of sites of clinics, lack of transparency in selection and deployment of doctors, data rigging for inflating the payment to the doctors and staff, (and) exorbitant rents for the rented sites had been received”. The vigilance department had found merit in those complaints, so some files were returned on July 5, 2017. The files were resubmitted on August 31, and the proposal was approved by LG “without delay on September 4, 2017 (within two working days)”.
 
