KOLKATA: Forty-eight hours before the expiry of the stipulated threemonth deadline, the detective department on Wednesday submitted the charge sheet in the case of sexual abuse of a four-year-old girl, allegedly by two of her teachers, on the school premises last November. The two accused teachers have been charged with gang-rape.

 The incident, reported from a reputable English-medium school in south Kolkata on November 30, had sparked massive protests across the city and stood out as an example for others, who reported similar cases in the following few weeks.
 
  
 
 The   was filed at the special Pocso court at Alipore, the second such chargesheet concerning child abuse in school in two successive days. The police have named the physical education teachers —   and Md Mofizul — as the two accused, who had allegedly sexually assaulted the girl in school. The cops have slapped sections 4 and 6 of the Pocso Act, along with Section 376D ( ) of the IPC.
 
 The charges include the stringent aggravated penetrative sexual assault section, which invites punishment for a minimum of 10 years to and a maximum of life in prison. The cops have named 27 witnesses in this case, all of whom are crucial in establishing the circumstances of the case. The charge-sheet documents run into 287 pages.
 
 Both the accused have been in jail custody since their arrest, and have been consistently refused bail. “The   — a confidential statement before the magistrate — will be our biggest evidence in this case. Several forensic reports have also been attached to the charge-sheet,” a source said.
 
 “We are happy with the investigation since the investigating officer was changed on court orders,” said the father of the girl. “However, this is a charge-sheet and trials will begin. We are keeping an eye on developments here and will act accordingly on the case in high court,” he told TOI.
 
 The difficult case saw the women’s and children’s wing of the detective department take over the case from the local police. Among those questioned about the incident were the school principal, other teachers and some nonteaching staff. Incidentally, the principal subsequently was relieved of her duties after a case was lodged against her for disclosing the name of the girl. Some of the people questioned have been cited as police witnesses.
 
 The cops also said that their probe into the exact sequence of events is finally over. According to sources, the chain of events began when the child, along with other classmates, was visiting the toy room. “The girl was in this room for a few minutes before she wanted to visit the toilet around 2.45pm on November 30. She searched for a teacher or a female attendant and strayed away from the toy room. It was then that the two accused accosted her and said they would help her, luring her with chocolate. Both of them had entered the toilet before  ,” a source claimed.
 
