BENGALURU: The vexatious triple talaq issue is set to dominate the poll scene in Karnataka with both the ruling   and BJP determined to play it up to get an upper hand. 

 The Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Bill 2017 that outlaws the instant divorce practice was passed in   in December 2017 without any opposition. But   has been stalled in Rajya Sabha with the opposition parties raising objection.The Bill is expected to come up in Rajya Sabha on February 9. 
 
  
  
 
 Prime Minister  , who addressed a BJP rally in Bengaluru on Sunday, had accused the Congress of being a stumbling block to the reform. On Tuesday, some pro-Muslim organizations staged a protest in the city, opposing the criminal provisions in the Bill, mandating three-year jail term for a Muslim man pronouncing triple talaq.
 
 
 “As such we are not opposed to the Bill. In fact, we want triple talaq to be scrapped as the Supreme Court as already banned it. But we are against the provision, criminalizing Muslim men. The BJP is playing politics over the issue and the criminal provisions of the Bill are against the interests of the Muslim community. It should not be passed in Rajya Sabha,” said Nagma Shaik, president, Karnataka Muslim Mahila Andolan, which launched the protest along with other Muslim organizations like Bangalore Peace Organization.
 
 The Karnataka Muslim Mahila Andolan has sent a memorandum to the Prime Minister and President Ram Nath Kovind, urging them to ensure the Bill is not passed in the Rajya Sabha. The delegation of the Muslim organizations has submitted a copy of the memorandum to chief minister Siddaramaiah and governor Vajubhai Vala.
 
 The BJP, however, cried foul alleging that the protest was instigated by the Congress for electoral gains.
 
 “The protesters hit the streets just 48 hours after the PM deplored the Congress for its anti-Muslim women stand, and it is not very difficult to read their political design. They think that they can win minority votes by playing with its sentiments, but they will not succeed,” said BJP general secretary N Ravikumar.
 
 Muslim votes account for 14% in the state and are crucial in at least 40 out of the state’s 224 assembly seats, especially in Hyderabad-Karnatak region and parts of coastal and southern Karnataka. The BJP is hoping to win over Muslim women, highlighting this much-debated issue.
 
 “We will go the Muslim women with the message that the BJP is there to protect their interest and they have a protective brother in Narendra Modi,” said Ravikumar.
 
 Congress leaders, on the other hand, said they are ready with their plans to expose the BJP’s political ploy tending to confuse Muslim women.
 
 “When the marriage dispute is a civil one how can you frame criminal charges on a man for pronouncing talaq, that too when it is invalid. The BJP is making an issue out of talaq to get electoral benefits. We will not allow it to happen in Karnataka,” said Congress MLC Rizwan Arshad. 
 
 “The Congress will campaign against the BJP’s communal agenda of harming the Muslim community by criminalizing marriage disputes. This is definitely going to be one of the main poll issues in Karnataka,” said Salerm Ahmad, AICC member and special representative of Karnataka government in New Delhi.
 
 
