MUMBAI/KOCHI: Sunday brought a test of nerves for the loved ones of the   who perished in Saturday’s  . As they laid the bodies to rest, they were overwhelmed by the shock and grief.

 Shortly after noon, hundreds of people thronged Parsiwada cremation ground in Andheri (E) for the last rites of deputy general manager P N Sreenivasan. Given the condition that the corpses were recovered in, his identity was ascertained by the jewellery he was wearing. His friend P Surendranath (58) said, “We could identify his body by the face and by his wedding ring which had his wife Jayshree’s name inscribed on it. He was also wearing a gold chain with a Krishna locket.” 
 
 His son Arjun (29) sat numb as relatives offered condolence. The family learnt about the accident from news channels and because Sreenivasan did not make his customary call from his workplace. 
 
 At a crematorium in Santacruz (W), the body of Pankaj Garg (50) was cremated after his father and relatives landed from Lucknow around 4pm. A colleague said, “His wife Anjali identified the body by his wedding ring and the colour of his shirt.” Earlier in the day, around 200 people gathered at his residence at Silver Square, Kalina. ONGC chairman and managing director Shashi Shanker also paid respects.
 
 This is the second shock in three months for the Gargs. Pankaj’s mother had passed away three months ago.
 
 The remains of DGM (production) R Saravanan were despatched to his hometown in Madurai for the last rites on Sunday. The 50-year-old is survived by his wife, daughter and son. Neighbours in ONGC enclave in Poonam Nagar, Andheri (E), accompanied the corpse to the airport.
 
 Jose Antony, deputy general manager in ONGC, was laid to rest at St George’s Cathedral in Kothamangalam in Kochi on Sunday noon after his elder brother, brother-in-law and an ONGC official brought the body from Mumbai. 
 
 N A Khanvilkar, general secretary of the Petroleum Employees Union, said, “Such accidents are taking place too frequently. We may appeal to the Centre to stop using Pawan Hans helicopters to ferry ONGC employees. Else we may refuse to travel aboard these choppers.”
 
 
