‘
 ’ starring   and   in lead roles, with Devi Sri Prasad’s music released today amidst much fan-fare. 

 
 
 
 The film marks Mahesh Babu’s debut in a 
  
  which will see him play the role of a CM. After ‘Mirchi’, ‘Srimanthudu’ and ‘Janatha Garage’   is back with another socially conscious film. ‘Bharat Ane Nenu’ marks the second collaboration between Mahesh Babu and the director. However, Koratala Siva has made it clear in interviews that the film is neither a commentary on the present scenario nor a satire on the state of things. Mahesh Babu too, who has so far stayed away from anything remotely political, reportedly okayed the film convinced by the story.
 
 
 
 The promotional material of ‘Bharat Ane Nenu’ has been received exceptionally well, be it the posters, teaser or the music. The title song of the film,  , has rakes in more than 10M views since its release. The song Vachaadayyo Saami too has raked in more than 6.7M views since its release. The pre-release event of the film titled ‘Bharat Bahiranga Sabha’ was also received well, with the event attended by Jr NTR. 
 
 While Mahesh Babu’s character is said to go through a change, starting out light-hearted and peppy, veering towards politics for a reason later on, Kiara Advani who plays his love interest brushed off rumours that she plays his PA in the film. She also revealed to   that the film has an inherent message that will force viewers to think. 
 
 
 
 ‘Bharat Ane Nenu’ also marks Devi Sri Prasad’s debut in a political drama and he called the film’s music ‘creatively satisfying’. Talking about what can be expected from the BGM of the film he told Hyderabad Times, “Expect lots of strings, wing instruments and brass instruments that give a royal feel.” 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 'Bharat Ane Nenu' released today amidst high expectations, let’s see what the Twitterati has to say about it…
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
