NEW DELHI: Days after the   greenlighted country-wide screening of  , the film appears to have run into fresh problems as two states rushed to the SC for an urgent hearing on restoring their right to suspend exhibition of the movie if the law and order situation worsened.

 Madhya Pradesh’s additional advocate general Saurabh Mishra and his   counterpart S S Shamsharey mentioned applications filed by the two BJPruled states — which have seen sporadic violence against the film scheduled for release on January 25 — for urgent hearing before a bench headed by Chief Justice  . The SC will hear the two applications on Tuesday. 
 
 “There cannot be any doubt regarding the duty of the state to maintain law and order and to provide protection to persons involved in the film, or in the exhibition of the same. However, this duty of the state to maintain law and order cannot be seen in conflict with the power of the state to suspend exhibition of the film. Doing so would render Section 6 of the MP Cinemas (Regulation) Act, 1952 otiose (irrelevant). The power under Section 6(1) is available despite the state’s obligation to maintain law and order,” Mishra said. 
 
 On January 18, the CJIled bench had stayed the orders passed by four BJP-ruled states — MP, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Haryana — banning screening of the controversial film. The court had also restrained other states from banning the film and said once the censor board cleared a movie for public exhibition, states had no authority to ban it. 
 
 Appearing for the director, producer and distributor of Padmaavat, senior advocate   said it was unfortunate the way things were turning out despite a clear direction from the court on January 18. 
 
 However, the two states held on to the rider provided by the SC on January 18, “If a substantial ground is established in law by the states, there may be a different perception, for we are passing an interim order, considering prima facie case and having due regard to the fundamental conception of right of freedom of speech and expression.” They now want to show in law that they are entitled to suspend exhibition of Padmaavat to prevent possible law and order complications.
 
 
