KOLKATA : The performance of the app, which was launched about a month ago to take care of your parking pangs, has been far from being satisfactory all this while. While most of the city’s parking lots are yet to be covered by the new system, its functioning has been erratic even at the few ‘privileged’ areas.

 To pile more pain on motorists, even the mechanized parking-fee calculation system, which was introduced in 2015, is on the verge of collapse. The result has been obvious — carowners are getting fleeced and the parking attendants are having the last laugh.
  
 
  
 Regulars at the New Market area, for example, continue to get harassed as parking here — and the entire JL Nehru Road stretch — is a traumatic experience. Rarely does a motorist find a parking space free in the   area. Even if there is one, parking burns a hole in the pocket. Though the car parking agency has been officially given the right to charge Rs 10 per hour for a four-wheeler, often the carowners are charged three times more.
 
 Some times, even government officials are not spared. Excise department officer Sunandan Sen had come to New Market for shopping a few days back. But he got involved in a brawl with an attendant while parking his car on JL Nehru Road. As the attendant asked for more, Sen insisted that the fee be generated through the automated machine. The attendant refused to park the car, following which Sen lodged a complaint with the KMC authorities.
 
 The situation is no better on Rashbehari Avenue. From Deshapriya Park to Gariahat, the attendants still stick to the “manual mode”. Nabin Biswas, one of them, conceded that of the 16 attendants, only 50% have automated machines for generating a car-parking fee. The KMC parking department had in 2015 made it clear that no attendant will be allowed to generate parking fee slips without a machine. But the attendants’ inability to buy the machines have spelt doom for the new system. “And those who have it sometimes need to pay frequently for repairing the machine. It is not possible as the agency does not pay us,” said an attendant at Gariahat.
 
 “Inevitably, I pay extra whenever I park my car in city’s shopping areas — be it New Market, Gariahat or Hatibagan. The situation is nearly the same everywhere. The attendants also abuse you if you remind them of KMC rules,” alleged Manoj  , a bank manager.
 
 Sharma’s inference is not far from the reality. Even at the parking lot between Hatibagan and  , there is no attendant with a machine. Suman Gharai, the only parking attendant found at Hatibagan, pleaded helplessness in generating automated fee, leave alone using the newly launched app. “We were given an hour’s training on the use of the app. But the training is not sufficient. Add to that non-availability of automated machines. It has compelled us to issue manual fee slips,” Gharai said.
 
 Reacting on the harassment of carowners, a KMC car parking department official said: “We are keeping tabs on the activities of some agencies manning parking lots. If specific allegations are proved, we may have to blacklist the errant agency.”
 
 
 
  
 
