Ludhiana: City-based star weightlifter Vikas Thakur (24) who recently clinched the bronze medal for India in men’s 94kg weightlifting competition at Commonwealth Games, 2018 also known as Golf Coast 2018, has expressed his disappointment over the present attitude of the Punjab sports ministry as they have not made even a single attempt to honour his achievements at international level.

 Thakur expressed his resentment during one of the press meets held to honour his latest achievement in the weightlifting arena on Sunday. Thakur has brought laurels to the nation on foreign soil with his continuous hard work and dedication. 
 
 Moreover, Thakur alleged that Punjab sports department has not paid him even a single penny from the past three years. “I have grabbed medals for the country in 2016 SAF Games (South Asian Games), in the Commonwealth championship-2017, the recently concluded Commonwealth Games-2018 and as per the sports policies in state I deserve to be rewarded with a prize of over Rs 15 lakh but due to lack of proactive approach and the ignorant treatment meted out to me, I did not get not even a single rupee from the Punjab sports ministry till date,” complained Thakur.
 
 Reflecting on the state of affairs, Thakur said, “After my recent success in Commonwealth Games, my due amount prize has gone above Rs 15 lakh. The sad part is it is not only me who is facing the apathy of the sports department here. There are more like me.”
 
 He added that even this time, not even a single representative from the Punjab sports department contacted him to extend congratulatory wishes on the ocassion of his victory at the Commonwealth Games-2018.
 
 “It was in 2015 when I received Rs 6 lakh as a reward prize for my best performance in 2014 Commonwealth Games in one of the state-level functions to honor the prominent sports personalities of the state by Badal government. Since then I have not received any financial assistance from the state sports ministry till date,” he said.
 
 Assistant to director of Punjab sports department, Kartar Singh Sehmbay, said, “The issue of rewarding Vikas Thakur has already been forwarded to the Punjab sports ministry to receive an early feedback and a solution to the problem in delay in getting prize amount after his successive performance at international level.”
 
 In the recent concluded Commonwealth Games, Vikas clinched a bronze medal for India in men’s 94kg weight event as he achieved the feat by lifting 159kg in snatch and 192kg in clean and jerk for a combined lift of 351kg.
 
 In 2017 Commonwealth championship , Vikas secured a bronze medal as he achieved total weigh 340 kg, wherein he holds a Snatch of 150 kg, clean and jerk of 190 kg, which further helped to secured international medals in the 94 weight kg event matches.
 
 
