KOLKATA: State environment minister and mayor   on Friday called a press conference and flaunted air quality index (AQI) data collated from state pollution control board’s manual stations to refute reports that the city’s air had turned more toxic than Delhi in recent days. However, the data only reinforced concerns of environment scientists, doctors and citizens that the air was foul and harmful to breathe. Going by PCB data, there wasn’t a single day between January 1 and 15 when   was below 300. Above 300, the air is categorized ‘very poor’ by the PCB and ‘hazardous’ by the US consulate.

 Chatterjee furnished different sets of data, one from an automatic air quality monitoring machine at the US consulate on   and others from unspecified PCB’s manual monitoring stations in the city to show that the latter’s readings were always lower than the former. “I have already written a letter to US consulate, pointing to the data disparity,” said Chatterjee.
 
 However, PCB chairman Kalyan   did not directly refute the readings from the station at the US consulate. “We are not saying that Kolkata is in a very comfortable position as far as its AQI is concerned. But what we emphasise is that a single station’s data (that of US consulate) gives a skewed picture of the city’s air quality,” he reasoned. 
 
 US consulate general Kolkata’s spokesperson and   director Jamie Dragon agreed with Rudra’s contention that data from a single monitoring device cannot be applied to an entire city. At the same time, he backed the robustness and authenticity of the data to override Chatterjee’s hint that the data may not be correct. 
 
 “The raw air quality data collected by the consulate device is fed back to the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and translated into actionable information by the EPA’s NowCast algorithm. This algorithm converts raw PM 2.5 readings into an air quality index (AQI) value that can help inform health-related decisions,” he said.
 
 The data that Chatterjee cited was also contested by a section of experts who pointed out that manual readings of PCB were susceptible to human interference and manipulation and aren’t even recognised by the Central Pollution Control Board. “Kolkata does not even figure in the national AQI table because the automatic machines have been out of operation for long,” said green activist Subhas Dutta. 
 
 Others took on Chatterjee’s contention that the proximity of high traffic Chowringhee to the US consulate led to spike in AQI while its station in Delhi was located in Chanakyapuri, a relative green zone. They argued that Ho Chi Minh Sarani where the US consulate is located hardly has any traffic as the access is controlled. Also, the sprawling Maidan beyond the JN Road helped dissipate the pollution from emission.
 
 Chatterjee said the government had initiated a source apportionment study of pollutants to work out a detailed combat-strategy. “We have accepted all the recommendations of NGT and would be implementing the graded response action plan to combat air pollution,” he said.
 
 
