Chennai: When septuagenarian A P Krishnamurthi began building a humble one-storey house at Egmore, he was prepared to spend within `40 lakh. A year later, with 85% of the work done, his spending has long crossed the initial estimate and he is staring at a bill that can go up to `50 lakh. All because of the high escalation in construction costs over the last one year. 

 "We had worked out the construction cost as `36 lakh and an escalation of additional expenses of `3 lakh. However, the costs have already gone up by 16% of our initial estimate because of the steep rise in the price of  ," said the former publisher.
 
 Sharp rise in cost of material has left individual buyers, with limited savings, in the lurch. While   prices skyrocketed due to scarcity of the material, retail prices of steel and   are going through the roof. A bag of Portland Pozzolana Cement (50kg) is sold at `340 to `360, depending on the brand. Its price in early 2017 was around `300. 
 
 Similarly, the cost of a tonne of 8MM steel sold at `40,500 earlier, has gone up by `9,000. M-Sand rates too have almost doubled in a year’s time after ban on river sand mining.
 
 R Veeraraghavan, a builder who is constructing his own house at Virugambakkam, said scarcity of sand and rising cost of construction material was causing financial stress on those dreaming of building a house.
 
 "Construction of my house has been delayed by six months. Several people building houses avail loans and they are most hit due to delays," he added.
 
 Developers’ associations charge that the hike is being orchestrated. On the prices of steel, he said local steel manufacturers were fixing international rates for the retail sale in the country. "Steel prices witness a gradual increase of 2% to 5%. Now, this graph is going north of 10% to 15%," said Ramaprabhu, honorary secretary of the Builders’ Association of India’s Southern Centre. He further said there is no reason why cement prices should soar. "There is a cartel which controls the price of cement," he alleged.
 
 In this crisis, the state government’s Amma Cement scheme was a relief to people. At `190 for a bag (50kg), the product is considerably cheaper than other brands in the market. But, Ramaprabhu claims the subsidised cement is hardly available. "People are finding it difficult to access cement under the ambitious scheme," he said.
 
 When contacted, official sources at Amma Cement said 17706.55 tonnes of cement were sold through the scheme in the city between April and December 2017, proof that the scheme is doing well, said a government official. 
 
 Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (Credai) Chennai chapter vice-president S Sridharan said construction costs had shot up by 30%. 
 
 "This is unprecedented and developers are in a fix because we cannot revise the price of apartment units for which builders have entered into an agreement with the homebuyers." However, the cost of unsold units in ongoing projects is bound to increase, he added.
 
 
