The Othakalmandapam town panchayat comprises just 5% of the size of  . But it spends more than five times on its water pipeline leakages than the corporation, reveals the   audit report.

 The panchayat, located 18km from the city, has spent `38 lakh for purchasing spares to fix leakages and another `45 lakh to maintain the pipelines in just one year - 2014-2015. As per the documents that are available for five years from 2011 to 2016, the panchayat with an area of 13.60sqkm spent more than 50% of its total revenue on maintaining its water supply system.
 
 The panchayat gets about `20 lakh from water tax and it spent more than `25 lakh every year on maintaining the water supply. While the panchayat did not reveal its records on the length of the pipeline, officials at the   said the numbers were appalling. "The Othakalmandapam town panchayat does not have an exclusive water supply scheme, so the maintenance is very less. We spend only around `50,000 for big pipeline leakages and less than `500 for small maintenance work. This amount for such a small area is shocking," said a senior TWAD board official.
 
 The panchayat gets 12 lakh litres of water every day from the   project. When asked, residents in the panchayat said they reported a leakage only once every three months. "I have been living here for the past 60 years and in the past 10 years all the mud roads have been converted to tar roads. We make just five or six leakage complaints a year," said K Nataraj, a resident.
 
 A former councillor in the panchayat alleged that senior politicians got a lion’s share of the money. "We agree this is a small panchayat, and so much expenditure points to corruption. But it is not the officers alone who are responsible for this," he said. A former officer in the panchayat said they were forced to pay for expenses of party functions. "How can we make these payments from our pocket. We have no other choice but to use panchayat funds and claim them as bills," said an official.
 
 Activist Daniel Jesudas, who got these reports through the RTI Act, said corruption in panchayats was rampant. "We were shocked when we went through the audit reports, as each year the same items were mentioned. It is surprising that senior officials, especially the town panchayat assistant director, did not take any step to stop this or order an enquiry. This proves that he is also equally involved in this," alleged Daniel.
 
 Despite several attempts by TOI, assistant director of town panchayats P   could not be reached for comment. Executive officer S Indhumathi, who was the EO in 2014-2015, said she had no idea about the audit. "Such expenditure take place in every town panchayat and I have been responsible for various good projects being implemented in the panchayat," she said.
 
 The collector is not marked as a respondent in the CAG audit report. But when his office was contacted, he was not available for comment.
 
 
