Anchor   welcomes the contestants, grand jury and the main judges.

 Renu Kumar and her mentor Raul Sipligunj kickstart the latest episode of Freestyle round with Vachchadayyo Saami (from Bharat Ane Nenu). The entire house pays respect for Ram Jogayya Sastry, one of the main judges of the show, who penned the lyrics. Judges   and Karthika laud Renu’s performance calling him the ‘star of Sa Re Ga Ma Pa’. Meanwhile Rahul announces that he is going to rope in Renu for his upcoming music video.
 
 Lokesh and Anjana Soumya perform Andam Indolam remix (from Supreme). Impressed with his performance, Rama Jogayya Sastry renames Lokesh as ‘Rockesh’.
 
 Mentor Lipsika and Sree Haripriya deliver a decent performance with her item number Rajasekhara (from Leader).
 
 Sindhuja and her mentor Madhupriya charge up the show with her impressive rendition of the popular item number Babu Rambabu (from Kevvu Keka). Anchor Sreemukhi shakes a leg with one of the male mentors for this riveting performance.
 
 The main judges compliment the signing duo calling Sindhuja ,one of the best contenders of the show. Sreemukhi plays a special audio visual of Sindhuja wherein she talks about her past, present challenges and goals. Sindhuja’s mother and sister appear in the audio visual revealing about her hidden dancing talent. Sindhuja further talks about her weight issues and how she overcame it.
 
 Prabhas and his mentor Bhargavi Pillai render Yedhane Koyyake (from Surya S/o Krishnan). All the three judges point out the lack of confidence and practice in Prabhas’ rendition.
 
 Boom Boom (from SPYder) by Deepika and her mentor Damini draws appreciation from all over.
 
 Sameera Bharadwaj and Neelaveni take the audience by surprise with their performance Petarap (from Premikudu). The judge panel appreciates the attempt by Neelavani which displayed her drastic transformation.
 
 Vaaji Vaaji (from Sivaji) by Muralikrishna and his mentor Satya Yamini fails to impress. Surprisingly, Muralikrishna missed and made few mistakes regarding the lyrics. While Ram Jogayya Sastry found fault in Muralikrishna’s choice of song,   made a suggestion on the ‘throw’ that the song needed.
 
 Based on the performance in this episode and scores from the previous ones, Chinmayi, one of the main judges, announces the list of four participants who slipped into the ‘Danger Zone’. The list includes Prabhas, Muralikrishna, Jayaraj and Haripriya. 
 
 Wishing them good luck ahead in the contest, Chinmayi announces Renu as the ‘Best performer of the day’.
 
