BHOPAL: Amid confusion over   and the re-test recently announced by   ( ), some rumour mongers have allegedly started spreading a   which says that the board has decided to roll back its decision to conduct a re-examination for Class XII economics examination. 

 However, the board has sent an internal communique to all its affiliated schools including those in Bhopal and sought help to put an end to the rumours which is adding woes to the already messed up situation.
 
 "It is my request to students not to pay any heed to this rumour because it is not true at all. It is a fake circular and whosoever is found to be spreading this circular will be taken to task and we will be monitoring it," said Sojan Joseph, secretary Sahodaya Group of Bhopal.
 
 He said the rumours will put students under extreme pressure and the situation will be even worse if it is not stopped.
 
 Reliable sources said that CBSE sent an internal communication to all the principals and asked them to keep a strong vigil on WhatsApp groups and other social media platforms.
 
 "We have been alerted through regional office to keep a note of such frivolous messages that are making rounds on social media. We have also been told to keep the record of person, account details of those who spread such rumours," said a school principal wishing not to be named.
 
 The message sent stated that effort should be on focussed on tracking down the original sender.
 
 "The chain may be sent to the sender of the message and the chain may continue till the original sender is tracked down," CBSE's message said.
 
 As per the fake circular doing rounds on WhatsApp, "CBSE has 're-examined' the happenings of the recent events and come to the conclusion that CBSE Class XII Economics paper leak was a hoax."
 
 The frivolous circular added that the board would now conduct a re-examination of only Class X mathematics examination.
 
 Meanwhile, the CBSE has announced the re-exam of class XII economics paper officially through a press conference of MHRD on Friday.
 
 "Economics re-test will be held on April 25 and it is official. But no decision has been taken on Class X maths paper yet. I again request students not to believe on rumours and instead get official confirmation from board's website," Joseph told TOI. 
 
 He advised all the parents and students concerned not to fall prey to such devious news that may confuse them further.
 
 
