Mumbai's air quality will continue to be poor on Thursday before weather conditions alter to bring relief to the city the day after. The city's air quality index (AQI) dipped on Wednesday owing to a spike in pollution combined with weather factors.

 Officials from the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), which measures AQI, said air quality will improve from Friday. "While the air is in the poor category now, we are expecting it to improve as the day progresses. There is a western disturbance which is pulling in a lot of moisture, but as the sun comes up, its heat would reduce moisture and pollution levels, thereby improving air quality," said Dr Gufran Beig, project director,  .
 
  
  
 
 An AQI of above 300, as recorded at various places in the city on Wednesday, falls in the very poor category and people with heart or lung diseases, older adults and children should avoid prolonged or heavy exertion.
 
 Marine Drive resident Mahendra Hemdev, who travelled widely during the day, said haze was spread across the city. "I was in Bandra and then in the evening came towards south Mumbai and noticed that the haze was everywhere. It was difficult to see things at a distance. The weather has been very gloomy and if felt that it would rain too at some point. The kind of weather Mumbai has been witnessing has not brought any respite from heat," he said.
 
 Meanwhile, humidity levels recorded at Colaba and Santacruz were 80% and 51%. Explaining the rise in minimum temperatures in Mumbai, IMD scientist Ajay Kumar said, "Winds are easterly to north easterly in the night, which bring in warm air. Owing to this, temperatures are on the rise. Besides, there is a westerly trough, which is moving northwest of the country. This is pulling in a lot of moisture from the Arabian Sea."
 
 A forecast of thunderstorms (including hailstorms) has been issued for Vidarbha and Marathwada between February 10 and 13. This could have an impact on Mumbai's weather conditions to an extent as skies may continue to be cloudy. The intensity of thunderstorms will decrease from February 14 onwards.
 
 (With inputs from Sanjay Banerjee)
 
 
