PUNE: Tomatoes, in one of the state’s biggest   at Narayangaon, about 75km from Pune, cost as low as Re 1 per kg, but the consumer continues to shell out much more in the retail markets across the city.

 An excess harvest and comparatively less demand for
 
 
 It the kitchen staple is being viewed as the cause behind the wholesale price falling to such a low, leaving farmers staring at huge losses.
 
 Jalindar Thorve, a trader from  , told TOI over phone, “Between February and April last year, farmers got lucrative returns from   production. This prompted many more farmers to switch to tomato cultivation and this resulted in a glut in the market, disturbing the demand and supply equation.”
 
 The consumer is not benefiting either, a senior official from the   (APMC) in Pune said. They were paying between Rs 10 and Rs 20 per kg in the local markets across the city. 
  
 
 “The huge price difference in the wholesale and retail market is due to the absence of any price control mechanism over the retailers. We have tabled this issue in the past in our general body meetings but, a proper solution could not be found,” the official said.
 
 He said many   were of the opinion that the government should set up a body, which can control vegetable prices at retail markets. “For this, all retail markets should register with the APMC and then it would be possible for us to keep a tab on the price difference that affects consumers. In the absence of such a mechanism, retailers continue to exploit the consumers,” he said.
 
 In Pune, the wholesale price of tomato at the APMC from where most vendors buy vegetables for retail sales, was in the range of Rs 3 to Rs 6 per kg. Almost 100 crates of 20kg each were sold in the market.
 
 Satish Kulkarni, a buyer on Apte Road, said, “The difference between wholesale market prices and vendors’ prices has always remained high. The government should introduce a mechanism to check prices at retail markets.”
 
 Dhananjay Jagdale, a software professional from Navi Sangvi, said, “Prices of all vegetables in APMC have come down in the past two weeks but consumers are still buying vegetables at high prices.”
 
 Tomato is a cash-intensive crop. An acre of crop requires Rs 50,000 to Rs 70,000. Baban Tope, a farmer from Chakan, said, “With the current market prices, we will not get back the input price. Thousands of farmers will face huge losses. Last year, we sold one crate between Rs 150 and Rs 200.”
 
 The response from traders outside Maharashtra was dismal, said Sanjay Kale, chairman of APMC, Junnar market which has a Rs 200 crore tomato turnover annually.
 
