CHAMARAJANAGAR/UDUPI/ CHIKKODI: Prime Minister   hit the campaign trail in   on Tuesday, targeting the Siddaramaiah government for its “culpability in promoting ease of doing urders” and accusing   of promoting a “culture of family politics”. Without taking chief minister Siddaramaiah’s name, Modi, who began with a public meeting at Santhemarahalli in Chamarajanagar district, said: “It is 2+1 and 1+1 in Congress.” 

 
 While “2+1” was a reference to the CM contesting from two segments and his son from the Varuna seat, the “1+1” jibe was aimed at ministers and Congress netas who had got tickets for themselves and their children. “It is CM’s political innovation,”   said, asking if the Congress had run out of leaders to contest the polls against  . 
 
 “Where there is Congress rule, all roads to development are blocked. There is only family politics, corruption and lack of harmony,” the PM added. He also made fun of Siddaramaiah, saying he goes to sleep on the dais at public events. 
 
 “Sleeping on the dais when people are looking at you is the height of irresponsibility,” he said. Modi said there is no law and order in the state and even the Lokayukta is not safe. In his Udupi address, Modi came down heavily on what he said were murders of Hindu activists in Karnataka, alleging that the Siddaramaiah government was apathetic to these killings. The world is hailing India for its rise in ease of doing business rankings, but Karnataka is in the spotlight for “ease of doing murders”, he said. 
 
 “There can be no future for Karnataka and its youth if this trend is allowed to continue. If we don’t stop this violence, Karnataka will not prosper,” he said. Modi said the culture of political killings had reared its head in the state under the Congress government. He said mainstream media may not have highlighted cases of atrocities on women, especially those from economically backward sections of society, but truth has its own way of reaching the people through social media. 
 
 Letters from senior police officers to the chief secretary have held a mirror to the state of law and order in the state, he added. Modi said his government has acted decisively in providing for capital punishment to those who sexually assault minors. “Ours is a government that acts decisively,” he said. “On the other hand, there is a government in Karnataka where mafias thrive in every department,” he added. 
 
 Modi assured Dalits that reservation facilities provided to them in accordance with the Constitution will not be withdrawn under any condition. He described as false Congress claims that BJP would scrap reservation for Dalits and change the Constitution. He also said Congress had tried to defeat Dr BR Ambedkar in elections.
 
