Vasco: The car rental service counter being launched on Monday at the Goa International   by the Airports Authority of India (AAI) is a “passenger-centric facility” that will ease commuting woes, Goa International Airport, director, B C H Negi said. 

 Negi said the car rental/maxi cab service contract, which has been awarded to Taj India Tours, has been done as per the AAI Act, 1994, which allows AAI to start such facilities at airports managed by them. As per the act, ground transport facilities at any AAI managed airport is a basic essential facility required for passengers. 
 
 Negi pointed out that passenger growth at Goa International Airport has clocked a mere 7% overall growth rate in the current financial year as compared to the last financial year’s 25%. “This negligible passenger growth rate is definitely a cause of concern. AAI is trying its best to bring more airlines to start operations at the Goa airport,” Negi said. 
 
 Commenting that AAI has taken up infrastructure development works worth nearly Rs 500 crore, including improved passenger experience at the naval-controlled airport, Negi said, “With all these passenger-friendly initiatives, AAI will transform Goa International Airport despite the challenges and constraints that exist.”
 
 It may be recalled that on Saturday, sensing possible law and order problems at the Monday launch, AAI officials had called for a meeting with the United Taximen Association, asking them to co-operate and not to take law in their hands. The association said that they do not have an issue with the counter so long as it works exclusively as a car rental and does not provide destination to destination service.
 
 The service was supposed to commence in October 2017 after completing all required formalities including obtaining of all mandatory regulatory approvals required from state and central government authorities. “Due to a delay in getting these approvals, the agency approached the high court which issued a direction to the government to issue necessary approvals. Based on the court’s direction, the agency was recently granted licence by the state road transport authority,” Negi said.
 
 Negi said that AAI is spending close to Rs16 crore to modify the existing terminal building to address the shortcomings and constraints and thus provide passengers with facilities that are on par with those available at other international airports.
 
 
