How can you show visuals of a girl winking her eye at her lover, when the song is narrating the relationship between our   and  ?” asks Abdul Kauser.
Abdul is one of the six-member youth group, who lodged an FIR at the   against Omar Lalu, director of Malayalam film Oru Adaar Love, which features India’s latest Internet sensation, Priya Prakash Varrier. The song  , that shows Priya Varrier’s now-famous wink, narrates the story of how Prophet Muhammad met his wife Khadeeja Biwi and the events leading to their wedded union.
 The FIR, which was lodged under section 295(a) of IPC for hurting religious sentiments, at the Falaknuma Police Station, on the eve of Valentine’s Day, states that the lyrics of the song and the way it has been portrayed is blasphemous. “We don’t understand why there is a song on the Prophet and Biwi. We are not against the Kerala community, but are against this song,” says Abdul, defiantly.
 Having registered the FIR after the initial complaint, the Falaknuma police stated that they will investigate the incident, and will seek the opinion of the entire community before proceeding further.
 “We have lodged the FIR against the director Omar Lulu, since he has made this film. The complainants have found the usage of Prophet Muhammad and Biwi Khadeeja’s names objectionable. However, the Malayali Muslim community has been singing this song for years, so we will take the opinion of Islamic clerics and scholars to translate the lyrics. An entire community’s opinion is not represented by one or two people so a thorough investigation is required,” said Syed Faiz, ACP Falaknuma.
 
 
 Malayalis, however, maintain that the song that Abdul and his friends find “objectionable”, is actually a popular Muslim Folk song. Popularly known as the Mappila song, it is an integral part of the Malayali Muslim community. 
 “The Mappila songs are made on different themes, like the Prophet’s love, compassion, kindness, and valour. In fact, some even describe historic battles, including the battle of Badr led by the Prophet and more recent ones like the Malabar Rebellion of 1835,” said a scholar from University of Hyderabad, on the condition of anonymity.
 Incidentally, Malayali Muslims state that they have a treasure trove of songs on Prophet Muhammad’s relationship with his wife, as he was revered as a very gentle husband. The song from Oru Adaar Love roughly narrates how Khadeeja Biwi, described as the best flower, the best pearl and the pride of Mecca was attracted to Prophet because of his truthfulness. Reportedly, the song which was released in 1978, was written by PMA Jabbar and composed by Rafeeq and was broadcasted via Akashvani then and became a hit.
 
 
 
 While acknowledging that it may be a folk song in Kerala, complainants maintain that it cannot be shown on the big screen. “Even if Keralites sing this song, let it be restricted to marriages alone. It should not be displayed on the big screen, and we shall appeal to the Censor Board to remove any references to Prophet Muhammad,” adds Abdul.
 
 
 Meanwhile, the protesters hinted at contacting local politicians and parties to get support for their war cry. Aamer Javeed, Secretary of the AICC Research Department, maintained, “If anything hurts religious sentiments, one must carefully deal with it, without making it offensive.”
 Another government official, who practices Islam, said Hyderabadis had nothing to do with Malayali muslims and their culture. “The song is simply speaking about the divine relationship. Maybe the cinematography was explicit but there is nothing to get enraged about as long as the Malayali Muslim community has no issues. If they are liberal and 
 tolerant to it, Hyderabadi Muslims must not question it,” the official said.
 
