KOCHI: The state Responsible Tourism (RT) Mission plans to launch 20 experiential tourist packages here in July this year.

 
 K Rupesh  , state convener, RT Mission, while speaking at the expo organized by the state government as part of their second-anniversary celebrations, said they are in talks with various municipalities and grama panchayats to set up links with local stakeholders and the tourism industry .
 
 “Today, tourists are looking for something organic and this can be provided by the local residents in each region in a holistic fashion. There is a lot of tourist potential in things we take for granted such as farming,” said Kumar.
 
 He said their plans for experiential tourism include fish farming in Chellanam, Pokkali farming in   and cultural tourism in Amballur.
 
 “In Chellanam, there aren’t too many sources of income other than fishing.RT initiatives will allow them to set up other modes of the income from their existing skill set,” said Kumar.
 
 “Now, we plan on developing the experiential tourism packages centered on  , which has a reasonable number of homestay facilities. We plan to make Kumbalangi a part of the experiential farming tourism packages,” he said .
 
 He said the RT Mission aims to get local residents in each region involved in the tourism industry in various capacities like homestay providers and storytellers.
 
 Kerala tourism director   said the packages will be greatly beneficial for  . “Ernakulam has enormous tourism potential as it is accessible by air. But several tourists don’t stay once they arrive as they head towards Athirapally or Munnar. The packages give them a reason to extend their stay in the city,” he added.
 
 To ensure that all the packages are made accessible to the homestays, hotels and tour providers, the RT Mission has recruited around 70 resource persons. Their sole objective is to link the tourism packages which are rooted in grama panchayats and municipalities to the tourists.
 
 Kumar also said that they will be operating this project without profits and they are willing to support private tour operators who are willing to the provide responsible experiential tourism packages to the tourist.
 
 “The objective of the government should be able to create an environment for sustainable tourism,” said Gopinath P, founder of The Blue Yonder, which has been providing experiential tourism packages since 2003.
 
 The expo on Thursday was attended by several panchayat leaders, who were willing to suggest the idea to the tourism department to promote their panchayats.
 
 “We have been following the experiential tourism initiatives closely. There are several beautiful farmlands and we want to open it up for sustainable tourism,” said P A Chandrika, Ezhikkara panchayat president.
 
