HYDERABAD: Describing a career in IAS as a full ‘thali,’ outgoing chief secretary   remarked that IAS has all the ingredients that aspiring youth look for, in an exclusive interview to TOI on the last day of his service.

 “There is action, dignity, self-respect, service, status and fulfilment. One can do wonders as an IAS officer. I enjoyed every moment of my 35-year long service by serving the people.”
 
 Singh said that post retirement, he wanted to hone his music skills and spend more time with his three grandchildren. Singh, known for his songs at   parties and association gatherings, is also a cricket player. He represented his state, Bihar, in his college days and earned a good name at state cricket matches.
 
 To a question on his most satisfying achievement, he replied that the Hyderabad   and   are wonderful achievements, adding that the recently concluded land record updation was a ‘herculean’ task he completed within a short time. As an IAS officer, SP Singh has headed all important departments except finance.
 
 Singh fondly recalled his work as special officer of   (GHMC) and principal secretary of municipal administration department. “Those were the days when I worked for construction of metro rail, outer ring road, fly overs, road widening etc. That work has transformed the face of the city,” said Singh. He acted as founder chairman of Metro Rail, ORR project committees and also for Mission Bhagiratha.
 
 On challenges facing the state government, the outgoing CS said the completion of irrigation projects would be a major hurdle. “If completed on time and within the estimated cost, the irrigation projects will change the future of the state,” he said.
 
 On the great idea he came across from a politician, Singh said “The Rs 8000 per acre financial assistance to farmers is one of great idea. That came from CM KCR. That is simply out of the box thinking. We know that will rejuvenate the agriculture sector and boost all round growth.”
 
 On his successor  , Singh said, “The state is in safe hands. He has determination to produce results, he has had a wonderful journey and deserved the elevation.” He described the people of Telangana as ópen minded’ and said he intends to settle down in Hyderabad.
 
