Aarti.Kapur@timesgroup.com

 Zirakpur: With sanitation staff deployed for door to door collection of   going on strike to protest against non-availability of land for disposal, residents will have to make their own arrangements to dispose of household garbage.
 
 Residents of Dhakoli and Baltana have been at the receiving end with no sanitation staff making door to door visits to collect garbage. The problem is compounded by the failure of local authorities to take action.
 
 A visit to various housing societies showed bags full of stinking garbage lying outside houses in the society. Residents said since they have no idea when the sanitation staff will collect garbage, many people are dumping it on the roadside at night. According to Dhakoli residents, the municipal council has deployed only six sweepers for 20 societies and they visit houses only during festivals to take money. They said the sanitation staff rarely clean roads and other areas.
 
 G S Verma, executive member, Wellington estate society, Dhakoli said they do not know why sanitation staff members are not visiting the area despite being paid regularly.
 
 P S Dhiman, a resident of Dhakoli expressed fear of garbage piles causing diseases. 
 
 Shameshar Singh, president, Punjab Safai Majdoor Federation said from April 21, 2018 no sanitation worker will collect garbage from residential and commercial areas. If authorities do not agree to the demands of the staff, they would block the road on May 1, he declared.
 
 Admitting that they have not been collecting garbage from residential areas of Gazipur, Dhakoli, Peer Muchalla and Baltana, he said they do not have space to dispose of the garbage. He also said for the past fortnight, authorities have been assuring them that land will be provided soon but no decision has been taken and officials asked them to dump garbage on vacant land.
 
 Referring to the garbage processing plan, he said authorities told them they would be awarded 12 points for disposal of garbage in different areas of Zirakpur but they are yet to allocate land to them.
 
 Photo quotes:
 
 We have been raising the issue with authorities for the past eight days but in vain. 
 
 Kulbhushan Sharma, president, Unified Residents Welfare Association
 
 For the past four days, garbage bags have been lying outside their house as there is no place to dispose of them 
 
 Karamjit Singh, general secretary, Unified Residents Welfare Association 
 
 There has been no space to dump garbage here ever since the place was developed as a residential area 
 
 Rajesh Pathania, resident of Dasmesh Enclave, Dhakoli 
 
 In the dock:
 
 Manbir Gill, executive officer, Zirakpur said while authorities are trying to expedite the process of the land allocation to the company, a decision has not been taken yet. He said authorities are trying to make temporary arrangements for garbage disposal. 
 
 Timeline: 
 
 - In February, the Punjab government claimed to have acquired 10 acres of land at Samgoli, Dera Bassi where solid waste management plant will be set up.
 
 - In March, the municipal council claimed the company has allocated four acres of land free of cost for garbage processing in Lalru, against which company staff will lift and transport garbage.
 
 
