KOCHI: Letters and packages booked for speed post, including passports and certificates, are lying heaped up at the National Speed Post Centre, Kochi, on Wednesday as the nationwide India post employees' indefinite strike entered its ninth day. 

 
 The strike, which began on May 22 demanding better wages and benefits to   (GDS) as per the recommendation of  , is yet to be addressed by the central cabinet.
 
 "The GDS employees, earlier known as extra department employees, are posted to rural areas for a paltry wage of Rs 6,000-7,000 per month. But department officials like us, who do the same work as them, are given Rs 25,000-35,000 as salary. This is despite the committee suggesting revision of their wages and benefits in 2016," said A N  , department postmaster at Malippuram.
 
 All India Post employees in the state, except for some, have joined the strike in solidarity with the GDS employees who number to over 15,000 state-wide and 2.63 lakh nationwide, at the cost of their own salary being cut.
 
 "The GDS employees are recruited on the grounds of offers such as promotion through tests within a year's time, which would mean a significant hike in salary as well. However, rarely are such tests called and the employees continue to labour in the hope of getting promoted to the department office staff's level. The GDS employees have to pay even the rent of the office buildings in their panchayat," said V R Anil Kumar, national federation of   employees' (NFPE) state convener.
 
 Benefits such as maternity leave or sick leave are also not provided to GDS employees.
 
 Meanwhile, banking sector in the state was paralyzed on Wednesday as the bank unions across the country started a two-day strike till Friday after the talks between the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU) and Indian Banks' Association (IBA) on wage revision failed.
 
 According to UFBU, employees had received 15% hike in last wage bill, but this time IBA is insisting on only 2% hike as the net profits of banks are down. 
 
 Various trade unions like AIBEA, AIBOC, NCBE, AIOBA, BEFI, INBEF, INBOC, NOBW and NOBO are participating in the strike.
 
 "Today, the strike affected the operations of commercial banks in the state, except for Co-operative and Grameen banks. Business was disrupted in 5,300 bank branches in Kerala on Wednesday. We held demonstrations, dharna and public meetings at all district headquarters and major towns, which witnessed massive participation of employees. The meeting in   was attended by 600 members and similar numbers were registered in other major towns too," said C D Josson, state convenor, UFBU.
 
 
