 expert Vijay Kumar Choudhary says students should avoid silly errors while solving questions in the CBSE’s Class XII examination. Faryal Rumi jots down the tips the Baldwin Academy-Patna teacher has to offer to the examinees:

 Which are the scoring chapters in geography?
 
 All the chapters are important and I suggest students to follow only the NCERT book. Students should not miss out on the chapters like Transport, Communication and Trade, Human Settlements, Human Activities, International Trade, Resources and Development.
 
 Important diagrams, maps and data-based questions…
 
 Almost all the chapters have diagrammatic representation. Data- based questions from population, census are important. Many questions are based on maps. Students must practise sample papers, questions of previous year and model papers issued by the CBSE.
 
 What are the silly mistakes students make while writing the paper and how to minimise them?
 
 Map and data-based questions are important. Students must have a clear concept about the maps and practise the India and world map daily. I have seen even the brightest students take the maps lightly, which brings down their score. Maps and cities can be tricky to visualize. There are terms that can get mixed up in your head. I, therefore, advise students not to take it lightly. Make a flow-chart diagram covering all chapters’ data in a sequential way. It will help students memorise the data.
 
 Last-minute suggestions…
 
 Go through the important topics every day. Revise as many times as possible before the examination. Make flow-charts for quick revision. Prepare a time schedule for every subject as each one is important. Good sleep, healthy food and exercise will help students keep fit for the examination.
 
 Things that should be kept in mind while writing the paper...
 
 Students should read the question paper thoroughly. Excited to see ‘easy’ questions, many students miss out on the sub-parts of questions. In order to substantiate answers, students should try to add examples wherever they can. The answers should not be in long paragraphs. Point-wise answers fetch good marks. Maps should be attached inside the answer booklet, and not at the end.
 
 
