MANGALURU: The NEET-2018   written by over 13 lakh candidates was tough, but the overall examination was much easier than the previous year, as per the analysis of academicians.

 Rajshekhar Ratrey, vice-president, educational content, Toppr.com, commenting on the paper, said that in terms of difficulty level, this year it was slightly easier than last year’s papers. “Most questions were not time consuming. There were similarities between the weightage of marks in the exams, and the class 12 syllabus,” he said.
 
 Physics was the toughest section amongst the three. There were 24 questions asked from the class 12 syllabus and 21 questions from the class11 syllabus. This section had two difficult questions, nine moderately difficult questions and 34 easy questions. There were many calculation-based questions.
 
 The chemistry paper was moderately difficult, opined academicians. It was not lengthy. There were 20 questions asked from the class 12 syllabus and 20 questions from the class 11syllabus. This section had one difficult question, 20 moderately difficult questions and 24 easy questions. Most of the questions were based on simple concepts.
 
 The biology paper was the easiest amongst the three. It was not lengthy. There were 46 questions asked from the class 12 syllabus and 44 questions from the class 11 syllabus. This section had 9 difficult questions, 33 moderately difficult questions and 48 easy questions. However, this section was easier than last year, and had very few application-based questions. Most of them were directly from NCERT curriculum and were concept based. Most students found the paper moderately difficult, and expected marks in the range of 350-400.
 
 UdayNath Mishra, chief academic officer, BasicFirst (an aptitude-based, omni-channel training initiative) said this edition of NEET was easy to moderate, with 170 questions based on the NCERT curriculum, and only 10 questions were found tricky as two topics were interlinked. Minimum marks expected to qualify NEET for any college is 135+-5. However, students opting for government colleges would require 510+-5. Out of the total 180 questions, 110 questions were found easy; 45 questions were of moderate difficulty level, whereas 25 questions were of high difficulty level.
 
 
