PUNE: The civic administration is planning to construct a kilometre-long flyover to ease traffic congestion in the Gultekdi-Market Yard area. 

 The flyover will come up on the  , between Apsara talkies and Maharashtra State Warehousing Corporation. Thousands of motorists who travel towards Market Yard, Bibvewadi and Kondhwa through Nehru Road will be benefited, as they will no longer have to stop at multiple traffic signals.
 
 The   ( ) has started the tender process for the project. Officials expect to complete the necessary documentation over the next two months, following which the civil work will begin.
 
 The two-lane flyover will be 1,040m long and open to traffic coming from both directions. Each lane will be 4.5 metres wide. The estimated cost of the project is Rs31.77 crore.
 
 Officials in the PMC’s traffic department said the main aim of the flyover is to streamline vehicular movement in the Gultekdi Market Yard area, especially on the arterial roads along Dias Plot, Salisbury Park and Mukundnagar. In addition, there are three major chowks on the Apsara talkies-Market Yard Chowk stretch, which add to the chaos.
 
 They expect nearly half the traffic to use the flyover, thus lessening a great deal of burden on the road. The flyover will also provide vehicles direct access to Market Yard, Bibvewadi, Kondhwa, Gangadham Society.
 
 Ramesh Jaju, who often goes to Market Yard, welcomed the idea and said it was much-needed, considering how much traffic has increased over the last few years. “Nehru Road has become a crucial link because people use this road to reach Bibvewadi and go further towards Kondhwa, instead of travelling through the Cantonment areas. All these vehicles have to stop at traffic signals right up to the Market Yard Chowk, which makes for constant snarls. The flyover could eliminate these halts and thus free up the road,” Jaju said. 
 
 Vidya Raman, a local resident, said Nehru Road also suffers from encroachments near Dias Plot. “There is not much space in the slums and road, and which leads to rampant encroachment. This stretch of the road is not safe if one wishes to commute on a daily basis,” Raman said. 
 
 Sources in the traffic police department said it is not only private vehicles, but also heavy vehicles, that use the road to go to Market Yard and Timber Market. “The road is terribly congested in the peak hours (evenings). The flyover will also benefit the   (MSRTC) whose buses can use the flyover to skip all the congested spots,” an official said.
 
 An official from the traffic department said that the design plan of the flyover was almost ready, with basic diagrams and details having already been sketched out.
 
 
