GAYA: A crucial meet to discuss the bifurcation issue of three universities including the   is scheduled to be held in   on Monday. Besides the vice-chancellors of parent universities, the newly-appointed VCs will be also participating in the meet.

 To be chaired by principal secretary to the governor-cum-Chancellor, Vivek Singh, the meet will be also attended by senior officials of the education department.
 
 Sources said that several contentious issues concerning the distribution of assets and liabilities between the parent university and its off shoot have been identified and officials have been working overtime to present a uniform formula and draft MoU to be signed by the VCs of the universities affected or created on account of bifurcation.
 
 Earlier, on April 9, the government issued a gazette notification bringing the new universities into existence with retrospective effect. Issued on April 9, the notification has been made effective from March 18.
 
 Though there are several problems common to all the affected universities, the issue of MU guest house located in Patna has been identified as a bone of contention between MU and Pataliputra Universities. MU authorities favour the retention of the guest house for more than one reason including the need to have a place of its own in Patna to address the issues concerning students of colleges located in Patna and   districts admitted prior to the creation of  .
 
 The   meet, according to sources, will also take a call on which university will conduct exam of the ongoing sessions. In case, it is decided that the parent university will continue to conduct exams of students admitted before the establishment of the new university, the issue of dichotomy is likely to crop up, says the principal of a Patna-based college.
 
 In the event of parent university continuing with the conduct of examination of students admitted before the creation of the new university, students will be taught by the teachers of the new university and examined by the teachers of old university. Attendance certificate will be issued (75% attendance is compulsory as per rules) by principals over whom the examining university has got no administrative control. 
 
 On the other hand, if new universities are entrusted with the responsibility of conducting exams of the ongoing sessions, on account of infrastructure and skill deficiency, a mess will be created, says  , former director of higher education, directorate in state education department.
 
 Earlier, MU came out with a formula under which, headquarters employees on the verge of retirement and those having serious health issues would be retained and 73% of the remaining employees would relocated on the basis of their position on the roster with three of every four employees shifted to Pataliputra university.
 
 
