KOLKATA: Cops probing a complaint of harassment by a Kalighat resident who had opposed the bursting of crackers outside his home at the dead of night said such instances were very common after football and cricket matches, over which one should not make a “fuss”. 

 “Kolkata Knight Riders (KKR) had won their first match, and that is why people were celebrating by bursting crackers. One should not make much fuss about it,” said a senior officer of Kalighat police station on Tuesday. But isn’t the bursting of noise- making crackers illegal? “That is a different issue. Let’s not go into that,” was his reply. Even local MLA   said there was a need to “adjust”, and asked the complainant not to call up the cops over “trivial issues”. 
 
  
  
 At 12.30am on Monday, an hour after KKR had beaten   at the Eden Gardens, Kaushik Das, 42, a resident of   off   in Kalighat, had called up the police station after at least two chocolate bombs were burst outside his house. Das was frantic because the crackers had woken up Rudresh, his one-and-ahalf- year-old son, who was unwell. Das had not mentioned anyone in particular during his call to the police, but the cops came in and questioned some men who were watching TV in an adjacent Trinamool office. Soon after, the men, led by Jagannath  , allegedly visited Das’s house and threatened him for daring to call up the cops. The next morning, Das lodged a complaint naming Shaw, saying he had led a group of people to his house and threatened him. 
 
 He even sent a letter to chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s home and another letter to Subrata Bakshi, the national party secretary. Nothing has been done yet, he said on Tuesday. “The cops told me they would take action, but nothing has been done. I can see the persons still enjoying themselves at the party office, while we feel threatened at home,” said Das, who runs a business of supplying housekeeping staff. TOI visited the party office mentioned in the complaint on Tuesday afternoon and found a bunch of people watching a movie.  , named in the complaint, was also there. “We have settled it with the police. The man himself is at fault. 
 
 Some kids were bursting crackers and he made an issue out of it,” Shaw claimed. When TOI asked police why they hadn’t arrested Shaw even though he was still at the party office, the officer replied: “We cannot arrest people for such an offence. We have started an investigation and sent notices to the persons mentioned to appear before the police.” 
 
 Das said he had even called up local MLA Sovandeb Chattopadhyay, but he had asked Das not to call police over trivial issues. “Nowadays, every household has chocolate bombs stored. Bombs were burst even outside my house after the match had ended. Would I call police and report every time that happens? The neighbourhood and its mentality has changed over the years. We now need to adjust ourselves to the changing situation,” Chattopadhyay said.
