Ludhiana: The building with a   near Rakh Bagh is suddenly in demand after MC proposed to set up an integrated command and control centre there. Aspiring shooters have also approached the civic body to build a shooting range at that place. As of now there is no other shooting range within the city limits and shooters go to Narangwal to practise. The civic officials are yet to take a call on this proposal. 

 The court was set up after demolishing a squash court in the Guru Nanak Sports complex to facilitate the synthetic track in the stadium. The foundation stone of the squash court was laid by the MC in 2002. But, work was stalled for over a decade and it was completed in 2014 at a cost of Rs 50 lakh. An additional Rs 7 lakh was spent on the court's repairs and it was inaugurated in September 2015 for the second time but MC once again locked the building. After spending a significant amount on its construction, officials complained there are not many players to avail of the facility.
 
 District shooting coach Gurjit Singh said that there are over 25 players who go to Narangwal almost daily to practise and hence they requested the MC officials to set up a shooting range in the building. He said that players find it tough to visit the Narangwal shooting range in Narangwal especially in winter and monsoon.
 
 Meanwhile MC Commissioner Jaskiran Singh said they have received both the proposals but the final decision would be taken keeping in mind the suitability factor. 
 
 Fate of shooting range at Sunet village hangs fire
 
 A proposal to establish a shooting range in Sunet near BRS Nagar has been hanging fire for the past many years. The MCL had allotted 5500 square yards of land to the District Rifle Association for the construction of a shooting range way back in 2008. But the land could not be handed over to the association despite the fact that the MC general house had approved the construction. The file went missing and the project was dumped by the department. 
 
 
