MEERUT: A 34-year-old newly appointed history professor at the Chaudhary Charan Singh University (CCSU) in Meerut has received an anonymous letter containing death threats and warnings of acid attack for taking up the “post reserved for other backward classes”.
 
  Rattled, the professor,  , told TOI: "I had heard about acid attacks and the vulnerable condition of women in  . I am forced to reconsider my decision to join this new post.” The university administration has lodged a complaint with the local police.
  
  According to varsity authorities, Dasgupta's job is under the general category as she does not belong to any reserved class. Officials added that they were clueless why Dasgupta was sent such a threat letter. 
  
  Dasgupta, a Kolkata native, was an assistant professor at the University of Gour Banga in Malda prior to joining CCSU on January 9. She found the letter, which was slipped under her office door, on Saturday morning. It claimed that she should immediately “return home or be buried alive.”
  
  The professor subsequently wrote to the varsity’s registrar, Gyan Prakash Srivastava, citing danger to her life and detailed the letter’s "abusive language". A non-cognizable report (NCR) under section 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC was lodged at the   police station here.
  
  “Our investigation in the matter is underway. The letter was undersigned 'OBC Sena'. It is unlikely that such an outfit exists,” said  , station house officer (SHO) at the Medical College police station.
  
  Meanwhile, the varsity administration has provided personal security to Dasgupta who lives alone in the staff quarters. Security inside the CCSU premises has also been beefed up and CCTV cameras were installed outside the history department on Monday.
  
  “This is the first time that we have come across threats to any faculty member. Dasgupta is new to the varsity and we are extending all possible help to her,” said  , head of the history department, CCSU.
  
  Another faculty, on the condition of anonymity, claimed that the threats could be made by aspirants eyeing for the post.
