NEW DELHI: Malfunctioning of VVPATs (paper trail) counts marred 
  with the Election Commission forced to use over 1,200 reserve machines and announcing that it will take a call on the extent of repolling on Tuesday after recieving reports from its observers.
 
 As per convention, if polling is disrupted for over two hours, it is taken as a valid reason for ordering a repoll in that particular polling booth.
 
 The poll panel has also asked engineers to study reasons VVPAT malfunctions with officials pointing to their use on a large scale and the unfamiliarity of those superintending elections as a possible reason besides high temperatures in areas like the   Lok Sabha and   assembly seats in UP. On the other hand, the malfunctioning of EVMs was well within the normal range at 1%.
 
 BJP and the opposition both demanded repolling on several booths. The SP-BSP-Congress combine as well as BJP met the election commission calling for a repoll even as EC officials said its experts will examine if the faults were due to malfunctioning of sensors due to heat, any other technical snag or improper installation or handling of machines by the polling staff. 
 
 The EC will examine if polling staff was properly trained, especially with regard to VVPATs. In Kairana Lok Sabha seat comprising 1,705 polling stations, 355 of 488 ‘reserve’ VVPATs were used. In Bhandara-Gondiya, 413 of 429 ‘reserve’ VVPATs replaced malfunctioning machines. As many as 279 of the 339 ‘reserve’ VVPATs were used up in Noorpur assembly segment in UP. 
 
 An EC factsheet said percentage of VVPATs that had to be replaced in Kairana was 20.8%, in Bhandara Gondiya 19.22%, in   assembly segment 13.16%, in   assembly constituency 12.37% and in   assembly seat 11.02%. Across all four parliamentary seats and 9 assembly seats where bypolls were held on Monday, 11.6% VVPATs had to be replaced, even as the percentage of EVMs replaced was less than 1%.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 There were complaints of delay where machines had to be replaced with candidates calling for an extension of polling. When contacted, Chief Election Commissioner O P Rawat told TOI that the reason for VVPAT malfunction would be known only after the observers report is received. “We had last witnessed a large-scale VVPAT malfunction during the assembly poll in Punjab. In one constituency, it was as high as 35%. In most constituencies that went to bypolls today, VVPATs were used for the first time.”
 
 Rawat said unlike EVMs which the polling staff is well trained to handle, there may be issues relating to handling of VVPATs during first-time use. “All faulty VVPATs were replaced today and polling went on smoothly. EVM malfunction was well within the normal range of 1%. While the highest rate of replacement of VVPATs was in Kairana at over 20%, the average during Himachal Pradesh poll last year was 20-25%. We are still assessing as to how long the polling was disrupted today,” he said.
 
 The observers deployed by EC are to study the polling pattern, including how many voters left without voting and for how long the process was interrupted. “We expect the observers’ report by Tuesday afternoon,” said Rawat.
 
 The Commission, while deciding on the repoll, will also factor in inputs received from the returning officers, state chief electoral officer as well as feedback from the candidates and other stakeholders.
 
 Former CEC H S Brahma said VVPATs had been successfully tested in all weather conditions including regions like Leh (extreme cold), Jaisalmer (extreme heat) and Shillong (extreme humidity) in 2011-12. “But VVPATs need adequately trained staff to ensure right sequencing in connection. EC must ensure proper training to the polling staff, especially as it intends their 100% deployment in Lok Sabha poll,” he said. 
 
 Rawat insisted that EC was fully geared up for holding the 2019 general election with VVPATs. “There is no doubt whasoever. We are prepared in every way,” he said. 
 
 
