NEW DELHI: A passenger recently flying from Delhi to Hong Kong discovered that his cabin bag with gold worth Rs 30 lakh was missing. He raised an alarm and the airline crew immediately stopped   from getting off the aircraft. A search of the plane led to the recovery of the bag and a suspect was also identified and handed over to the local police. 

 The incident occurred on board   on March 26. “When the passengers were getting ready to alight from the Dreamliner, an Indian flyer seated in economy class raised an alarm about his cabin bag kept in the overhead locker being missing. The cabin crew, especially staffer  , acted with amazing swiftness. He ran to the aerobridge and asked for the de-boarding to be stopped and for the local police to be called in,” said a crew member who operated the flight. 
 
 
  
 By this time, business class passengers had already alighted. When the police arrived, they said passengers seated three rows ahead and three rows behind the passenger must stay and the rest could leave. The police then started their search. 
 
 “The bag was recovered from underneath a seat away from where its owner was seated. A passenger of foreign origin was detained and taken away by the police. The theft was foiled by the alertness of the crew, especially Nagari,” said a source.
 
 Airline officials said airports maintain a list of ‘repeat offenders’ and match the passenger list on flights where such thefts of cabin baggage are reported with that list. “This list may have also helped in detaining the suspect,” said the source.
 
 Due to favourable winds, AI 314 had landed in Hong Kong half an hour before schedule that morning. “The entire sequence of events — from the time the passenger reported the theft till the time it was recovered and the suspect detained — happened in 30 minutes. So by the time everyone left the plane, they did so in time for their scheduled arrival and did not face any delay,” the source added. 
 
 Air India did not comment on this at the time of filing of this report. 
 
 
