The final SmackDown exclusive pay-per-view,  , saw AJ Styles retaining the   Champion in the six-pack challenge main event in a frantic match that saw Styles hit the phenomenal forearm on   for the pin and take the 1-2-3 victory. 

 In a fast-paced match,   started with a bang delivering four Attitude Adjustments on Sami Zayn, Owens, Baron Corbin and Dolph Ziggler before Styles and Cena went to blows. Seeds of a possible Wrestlemania feud was also sowed when Owens, in a bid to Super-kick Zayn, accidentally, laid it SmackDown commissioner Shane McMahon who was ringside for the main event. 
 
 McMahon then denied both Zayn and Owens later on as he pulled the referee out of the ring after Owens hit a pop-up powerbomb on Ziggler and followed up by pulling Zayn out to prevent him from pinning Ziggler after a Heluva kick. 
 
 Styles then prevailed after Corbin cleaned the house with the steel steps. Cena then took Corbin out with the steps before being driven to the mat by Owen’s pop-up power bomb. But before Owens could go for the cover, Styles hit his finisher for the win, ensuring Shinsuke Nakamura vs Styles at Wrestlemania. 
 
 
 
 
 WWE SmackDown Women’s champion Charlotte Flair retained her title against Roitt Squad’s Ruby Roitt on expected lines with a sphere but the big reveal was when Auska, the First-ever women’s Royal Rumble winner, came out to announce the championship she will be going after at Wrestlemania and it will be the SmackDown women’s title. This makes for a high-profile match with Asuka’s undefeated streak on the line against arguably the best female wrestler in recent times- Charlotte. 
 
 
 
 
 In what looked liked to be the best match on the card, the Usos and the New Day delivered yet another fantastic match but it ended in a no-contest with the Bludgeon brothers - Harper and Rowan - laying out the tag champs and all three members of the New Day in a violent manner. This clearly makes way for a multi-team Wrestlemania match for the tag titles at Wrestlemania 34. 
 
 
 
 
 Randy Orton claimed his first-ever United States title thus becoming a Grand Slam champion by beating Bobby Roode. In what was a dull match, Orton caught Roode off the second rope when the Glorious One was going for a leg drop and hit the RKO for the victory. Jinder Mahal then tried to jump Orton and Roode but it was Roode who stood tall as he hit his patented DDT on both Mahal and Orton. This could lead to a triple-threat for the United States Championship at Wrestlemania 34. 
 
 
 
 
 Shinsuke Nakamura def. Rusev via pinfall:
 
 Natalya & Carmella def. Becky Lynch & Naomi via pinfall:
 
 Tye Dillinger & Breezango def. Mojo Rawley, Chad Gable & Shelton Benjamin via pinfall (Kickoff Show) 
 
 
