BENGALURU: Large, big and huge are qualifiers that sit easily on Bengaluru South assembly constituency. Spread across a swathe of land that extends from Mysuru Road in the southwest to Hosur Road at the other end, Benglauru South is the largest assembly constituency in the state when it comes to size of the electorate. The winning margins too have been huge here (more than 30,000) since its formation post 2008 delimitation.

 
  
  
 
 The nearly six-lakh strong electorate is a microcosm of Karnataka, ranging from dwellers of ultra-modern apartments to cheek-by-jowl houses in densely populated pockets to tiny hutments in villages. The general category constituency comprises eight BBMP wards, besides zilla panchayat segments and gram panchayats.
 
 Booming real estate has resulted in most original inhabitants of the constituency converting their agricultural land parcels into residential layouts or apartments. But the unbridled development has resulted in multiples woes like encroachment of public spaces, creaking road and water infrastructure and wanton destruction of green spaces like lakes and parks. Citizens in some pockets like Uttarahalli are daring political parties on social media to campaign from such black spots so that they come face to face with the ground realities.
 
  candidate M Krishnappa, 57, a former zilla panchayat member, is eyeing a hat-trick this time.   is known to bury his opponents under huge margins. In the last elections, he defeated real estate developer   from JD(S) by about 30,000 votes. In 2008, he trounced   candidate M Sadananda by a margin of about 34,000 votes.
 
 Krishnappa’s partymen say he has a great connect with the masses and his chances this time are reinforced by programmes such as free meals for senior citizens, development of lakes like Uttarahalli and Dorekere, construction of temples and granting of title deeds to the poor. He has also provided Cauvery water to some pockets, they say.
 
 Congress candidate RK Ramesh, a former president of Bangalore Dairy, is eyeing the Reddy community’s votes in the constituency. He is being helped by Congress leader and minister Ramalinga Reddy in his campaign.
 
 JD(S) has fielded Prabhakar Reddy, the losing candidate in the last polls. “Unlike previous elections, there is no Modi wave or other factors supporting BJP. Vokkaliga voters, who dominate the constituency, are favouring our leader HD Kumaraswamy for the chief minister’s seat this time,” Reddy said.
 
 BJP, which is heavily dependent on middle class votes, is running a campaign targeted at apartment-dwellers.   and Muslim votes could tilt the results and Congress is hoping they do so in its favour. JD(S) is also trying to woo the Reddy community.
 
 
