By Suresh Gundu Amonkar

  In 1967, Goans underwent a trial by fire to protect  , the unique identity that defined them. In that struggle, Konkani—the soul of Goa—was their strength. Somewhere down the line Goans failed their mother tongue, and it begs to be saved
 
 After Goa’s Liberation, as per the assurances given by Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru in the  , we had a referendum, which was diplomatically termed as the ‘Opinion Poll’. And the future of Goa as a separate entity was decided by the people of Goa. It was then that it became inevitable that we would have the status of a state in the Indian Union.
 There have been a number of claimants to the epithet ‘Father of the Opinion Poll’. The Opinion Poll would never have been a reality had Nehru not made a commitment to Goans to decide their own political future as a state in the Indian Union. I feel that only Nehru can be called the father of the Opinion Poll.
 
 Purushottam Kakodkar impressed upon the   leaders and the Congress Parliamentary Party the solemn commitment that Nehru had given to the people of Goa.
 Personally, I feel that when statehood was granted to Goa, neither were adequate preparations made administratively, nor was a proper debate held by Goans about its functioning. Considering the small size of Goa, both, in terms of area and population, was there a need to constitute a 40-member assembly? In the last 50 years have the legislators made the best use of statehood to protect the interest of Goa? What have we done about the status of Goa’s official language,  ? Are we going to make Goa an English-speaking state or are we going to make it a state where concerted efforts are made to safeguard the interest of Konkani?
 
 
  
  
 
 The legislators should have been unanimous in prescribing Konkani as the medium of instruction, at least at the pre-primary and primary stages of education. As a result, Goans would have a feeling of Goenkarponn, which everyone talks of today more as a gimmick than to safeguard the soul of Goa.
 
 Most states of India have made stringent efforts to safeguard their interests through their state language. Why have Goans failed to achieve this objective?
 Language is considered the umbilical cord to a culture. Our language tells us about our culture, our history, and our roots. But, Goan parents consider themselves pundits when it comes to choosing the medium of instruction at the primary stage. Stalwarts the world over think the mother tongue alone should be the medium of instruction. In the absence of this, Goans don’t master their language.
 
 One of the reasons Goans migrate in search of employment is because our education has failed to create a commitment in the minds of Goan children to serve Goa and make it a prosperous economy by working in the land of their birth.
 
 Our mentality is to just seek government employment, which people feel gives them a pension without working seriously. The next favourite option is to migrate. As a result, the rate of migration is so high that there is a huge vacuum created, which is naturally filled by people whom we call ‘bhaille’. But who is to be blamed for this?
 
 If we want to build a great state and state economy, we will have to keep Israel as a model before us. Though they, too, had a diaspora, we have only followed in the footsteps of the Jews as far as migration is concerned. But the Jews launched the Zionist movement and appealed to Jews settled all over the world to return to the homeland and build its economy through the pursuit of their mother tongue, Hebrew, which they never gave up.
 
 Goans, particularly diasporic Goans, complain with anguish that Goa is being flooded by outsiders. But who is responsible for this? Aren’t they themselves responsible? Why do most of them migrate just to work at some ordinary jobs abroad, considering it as ‘greener pastures’. Goan migrants have to really slog abroad, suffer insults as second-rate citizens. Their money doesn’t have much value in the city of their option, it only has value when they return home. In the olden days, even during Portuguese times, Goans built their own economy, launched hundreds of small businesses and, in the worst of situations, kept the spirit of enterprise alive. That was their commitment.
 
 The legislators will have to take strong measures to strengthen the status of Konkani as the official language, to give praise for Konkani as a medium of instruction, and make certain that every outsider who comes into Goa learns to speak and write in Konkani. Otherwise, with the trend of the sons of the soil joining the Goan diaspora, the future of Goa as a state of Goenkars will be a bleak dream.
 
 Are our politicians really free to take up policy decisions without succumbing to the centres of power in Delhi? The answer will have to be given by Goan politicians. Many a time, grants that are given to Goa are linked with proposals that safeguard the interest of Delhiwalas.
 
 We have already lost 50 years. It is high time we change our strategy and take a quick decision in this regard.
 
 (The writer is a Padmashri awardee, author, and educationist. He spoke to 
 Gauree Malkarnekar)
 
 
 
 January 23, 1965 | Then MGP government passed a resolution for merger of Goa with Maharashtra 
 
 March 10, 1965 | Maharashtra assembly passes resolution in favour of merger
 
 March 15, 1965 | Karnataka assembly opposes resolution of Maharashtra assembly
 
 
 December 7, 1966 | Parliament passes the Opinion Poll Bill
 
 January 16, 1967 | Is fixed as the poll date by the election commission
  
 Constitutional validity of the Opinion Poll is challenged in court, at Panaji. Court rejects the writ petition, says poll is not constitutionally void
 
 * Pro-mergerists choose flower as symbol
  * Anti-mergerists choose two leaves
  * Polling takes place without any violence
  * Nine out of the 28 constituencies see over 90% voter turnout
  *   sees the highest polling percentage of 96.66%
  * Mormugao is lowest at 73.48%
  * All constituencies see at least 70% turnout
 January 17, 1967 | Counting begins at 9am at Institute Menezes Braganza, Panaji; pro-mergists take lead on the first day of counting
 January 19,1967 | Counting ends in the afternoon with win in favour of maintaining 
 the Union territory status for Goa
 
