NAGPUR : Senior cadres of banned outfit Communist Party of India (Maoist) are now being booked under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection) Act, 2015, for recruiting minors in their formations to carry out various tasks. In 2017-18,   police have invoked provisions pertaining to misuse of minors on four occasions, using sections that attract imprisonment of seven years and fine of Rs5 lakh.

 The red rebels are generally booked under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for their militant activities, and also under various provisions of Indian Penal Code (IPC) in routine course. The Gadchiroli police have now devised a strategy since last one year of incorporating two crucial sections to protect juveniles.
 
 First, cops invoke provisions of Juvenile Justice Act for roping in children for militant and subversive purposes. Second, they name the top orders in the FIRs, beginning from  , alias Ganapathy, who is general secretary of the outfit, and others in the Central Committee (CC), especially those active in the region like   and Narmada Akka.
 
 SP, Gadchiroli, Abhinav Deshmukh said section 83 of the JJ Act is being invoked against Maoist leaders for using minors in their outfits. “During interrogations, we have come across several instances where surrendered or arrested rebel cadres claimed they were drawn into the movement at the tender age of 12-14 years by some leader. We immediately proceed to register an offence against the recruiting cadres under JJ Act,” he said. 
 
 According to a reliable source in the district, Maoists are known to follow a concept of ‘Bal Sangam’ in which they form groups comprising young boys who are used as safe couriers and also for intelligence work. The Maoists also use these minors from the adjoining villages as shields against security forces during firing. Experienced sources from security networks said the Maoists later groom these minors into armed guerrillas, who are known to deliver better than others, as they are well-acquainted with the outfits’ functioning styles and strategies. Being locals, the minors also turn out to be better aware of the topography and are acquainted with the local population. 
 
 Raghu, a senior divisional committee member (DVCM) active in south Gadchiroli, is learnt to have been spotted with a group of underage children at Korpe village, which is around 8 to 10 kilometres away from the Kasnasur-Rela-Boriya forest, where the security forces had gunned down 33 Maoist cadre on April 22.
 
 
