BENGALURU: The Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the murder of journalist-activist   will file the first chargesheet in the case before the Ist Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate (ACMM) court on Wednesday. The preliminary chargesheet, running into 650-odd pages, pertains only to the role played by Maddur gunrunner K T Naveen Kumar, the only person to be arrested in the case, in assisting the killers.

 The document is said to be silent on the identity of the killers and their organisational and ideological affiliations.
 
 According to SIT, the chargesheet had to be filed to meet the 90-day mandatory deadline after the arrest of Naveen.
 
 “The chargesheet is first and preliminary. More will be filed as our investigation progresses. This chargesheet mainly talks about the role of Naveen. We’ve charged him under IPC sections 118 (concealing design to commit offence,) 120B (criminal conspiracy) and 35 (whenever an act, which is criminal only by reason of its being done with a criminal knowledge or intention),” sources said.
 
 The chargesheet contains statements of 131 witnesses, including experts from  , doctors from Victoria Hospital, police officials who first visited the scene of the crime, family members, including Gauri’s mother Indira and brother Indrajit Lankesh, colleagues and staff at   office in Basavanagudi, locals from RR Nagar and friends of Naveen.
 
 It quotes Naveen as stating that one Praveen sought his assistance in eliminating Gauri. “He said he will be sending four men who are assigned with the task of eliminating Gauri Lankesh and asked to help them in tracing her house, office and other places. I agreed. We met near a park in Vijayanagar (west Bengaluru). Later, I took them to RR Nagar and showed Gauri’s residence. A few days later, we met again and this time I showed them her office,” Naveen’s statement reads.
 
 “The public prosecutor is going through the chargesheet. There are some changes to be made before it is submitted,” an officer said. 
 
 The biggest challenge of SIT is recovering the country-made pistol and identifying the shooter. “When it’s done, the case will reach an important stage,” SIT sources admitted.
 
 SIT zeroed in on Naveen after he told his friends that he had participated in the “big task” of killing Gauri. “Anil Kumar, friend of Naveen Kumar, has stated before the court that Naveen boasted of his role in the killing. Anil confirmed that Naveen had brought unidentified youths to Gundyal dam in Kollegal and discussed the murder plot of a Mysuru-based rationalist,” sources said.
 
 4 held for plotting to kill Bhagwan
 
 SIT has arrested four men for allegedly hatching a plot to eliminate Mysuru-based rationalist K S Bhagwan. According to M N Anuchet, deputy chief, SIT, the quartet is being questioned to know whether they have any links with Gauri’s murder. 
 
 The accused are   alias Sujit Kumar, 37, of Kappanahalli in Shikaripura, Shivamogga, Amol Kale alias Bai Saab, 37, of Pune, Amit Degvekar alias Manohar Degvekar, 38, of Sindhudurgh in Maharashtra and Manohar Edave alias Manoj, 29, of Vijayapura.
 
 SIT is yet to ascertain whether this is the same Praveen who commissioned Naveen to help Gauri’s killers. 
 
 
