HYDERABAD: The engineering student,  , who ran her car over a cobbler sleeping on the pavement at Kushaiguda on Monday, was sent to Chanchalguda   remand on Tuesday. Meanwhile, excise sleuths have sealed Up The Roof Top Lounge for serving liquor to the friends of Ishanya who were below the age of 21 and initiated steps to suspend the license.

 
  
  
 
 Police arrested 20-year-old Ishanya Reddy on Monday and produced her before the magistrate in the evening. She was booked under Section 304-a (causing death due to rash or negligent act) of the Indian Penal Code and police opposed her bail.
 
 The engineering student was sent in judicial remand for causing the death of a cobbler, K Ashok at   in Kushaiguda during the early hours of Monday.
 
 Kushiaguda police have also booked the management of Up The Roof Top Lounge in AS Rao Nagar under Section 188 (disobedience to an order lawfully promulgated by a public servant) of the IPC for serving liquor to Ishanya’s friends who were below 21 years of age.
 
 “The staff at the lounge claimed that they served liquor to the girls only after checking age proof,” Kushaiguda inspector   said.
 
 On Tuesday, excise sleuths visited the lounge and sealed the facility for serving liquor to people below 21 years of age. “Law and Order police are investigating the case and the bar served liquor to girls who were 19 and 20-years-old. We have sealed the facility and their trade license also is being suspended under Section 31(1) (b) of the Telangana State Excise Act,” said K Pradeep Rao, Malkajgiri excise superintendent.
 
 The suspension of license will remain in force for over a week and Greater Hyderabad Muncipal Corporation (GHMC) officials have also planned to take punitive action against the management of the Up The Roof Top Lounge. “The lounge management obtained permission from   to operate as a Bar and Restaurant. But we came to know that they were playing live music and operating as a pub which is a violation. We will take appropriate legal action against the management and inform police as well as the Prohibition and Excise departments,” GHMC deputy commissioner, Kapra Circle, N Yadagiri Rao said.
 
 
