BENGALURU: Call him duty-bound, a philanthropist or simply a man with a conscience, but for  , a 35-year-old with a rare blood disorder, Shridhar B S will always be considered a saviour.

 Shridhar, a 58-year-old   based in the city, travelled to Vellore, Tamil Nadu on Tuesday just to donate blood to Polaki. Until 24 hours previously, Shridhar did not know Polaki even existed, but his motive was simple: The two share the rare Bombay blood type (or the HH group since they lack the ‘H’ antigen) and without it Polaki would die.
 
 
 
 
 Polaki hails from Paralakhemundi, a region on the Odisha-Andhra border. Until a month ago, Polaki worked as a construction supervisor in Visakhapatnam when life as he knew it changed for the worse. Polaki found he suffers from a rare blood disorder characterised by abnormal production of haemoglobin. His haemoglobin levels had dropped drastically and he was shifted to the hospital in Vellore for treatment.
 
 On May 7, doctors decided on blood transfusion for Polaki since his haemoglobin levels had plummeted to just 5 gram per decilitre against the normal 12-16 gm/dl. But his blood type made it difficult to find donors.
 
 Still, Polaki’s caretakers began a frantic hunt and eventually got in touch with Shridhar in Bengaluru through blood banks and WhatsApp groups.
 
 Less than 24 hours later after hearing about Polaki, Shridhar, a resident of Malleswaram, was on his way to Vellore by train. He was back home that same day, boosted with a healthy dose of serotonin, the happiness chemical, knowing he had perhaps saved another human being’s life.
 
 Shridhar revealed he learnt about his rare blood type only in 2002 and, although a person can donate blood only once in three months, he has made the most of it, He had made over 45 donations in several cities including Tirupati, Hyderabad, Chennai and Coimbatore and his recipients include cardiac, thalassemia and blood cancer patients. 
 
 “It was a great of Shridhar to travel to Vellore and donate blood,” G Srinivas Rao, who is taking care of Polaki, told TOI. “Polaki requires two more units. He was constructing my sister’s house in Visakhapatnam. He was not aware of his rare blood type until a month ago when his condition worsened after getting O positive blood. We brought him to Vellore for further care on May 4. The doctors have told us that he is suffering from thalassemia.”
 
 Polaki is married and has two children. The family is now swamped with medical bills for his treatment and are finding it difficult to make ends meet. They say they require at least Rs 15 lakh. 
 
 
