Ambala: The Ambala mayor has announced to move the court against the Haryana cabinet’s decision to abolish the municipal corporation. The decision may affect the corporation with stoppage of grants from the Centre but the residents believe that setting up of municipal councils for Ambala City and Ambala Sadarit might bring as the distance between the city and Sadar areas is around 11km.

 Ambala mayor Ramesh Mal said that he had made up his mind to file a petition against the government decision in the court and for that legal formalities were being done. “I would file the petition against it as this is a totally incorrect decision. The Ambala Municipal Corporation will not only face financial losses by not getting grants from the central government it will also prove to be a hindrance in the development of the city. It is the first ever decision in the country where a government is trying to turn a city into a village. There are around 4,000 municipal corporations in Indian but the name of Ambala will be deleted from that list. The municipal corporation was formed in 2010, and in 2013, we won the elections. Since its formation, the corporation has got grants worth Rs 100 crore.”
 
 Meanwhile, Haryana cabinet minister Anil Vij, who represents Ambala Cantonment area in the state assembly, hailed the decision. He said it was done to assist the local residents who had to cover a long distance to reach the city with their problems.
 
 Congress leader Himmat Singh
 
 Abolishing of the Ambala Municipal Corporation will make it ineligible for the Union government’s grants as there is no provision to provide the grants to councils for various schemes like ‘Smart City’ and housing projects. Besides the loss of funds, there will be staff shortage. In AMC posts of eight JEs were sanctioned but now with the division into councils the posts will also be lowered and hence the developmental work will be affected. The government will throw out the outsourcing employees making them jobless.
 
 Ambala Ex-Servicemen Welfare Committee president Atar Singh Multani
 
 I appreciate the decision of the government. The earlier decision to make the municipal corporation in Ambala was purely political. Ambala City and Ambala Sadar area remained divided and the mayor has to sit two days each at both places. Villages were also included in the corporation limits. Now, the residents will be able to approach their councillors and civic chiefs easily.
 
 Amabala Club chairman Sunil Mohan Trikha
 
 The decision is good but there will be a loss of grants for the new civic bodies. The state government should chip in to make up for the shortfall as the development of urban areas should not be affected. That is what the residents want.
 
 
