PUNE: Prominent developer D S   and his wife, Hemanti, were subjected to some intense grilling by the special investigation team of the Pune police regarding the financial transactions they did with the money collected from a large number of depositors and also the source where the money was routed. 

 The SIT made an attempt to track the money trail and it is likely that the police have obtained many clues during the questioning.
 
 Kulkarni, also known as  , and his wife reported to the SIT in view of the Bombay high court’s order on February 5 directing the couple to cooperate with the ongoing probe into a case of cheating and offence under the Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors Act, lodged by several depositors. Deputy commissioner of police (ecnomic and cyber)   is heading the SIT, which comprises assistant commissioner of police Nilesh More, five officers and a forensic auditor, among others. The questioning will continue for the next three days as per the HC order.
 
 Hiremath said, “We want to know what has happened to the people’s money and will continue to question them on the same.” 
 
 A senior police officer said, “The police are assessing their assets and the worth of other articles. Many fresh developments, which never came to the fore in the last three months, have come to light”. 
 
 The officer said, “DSK used to look after property development and SEZ affairs of the DSK group of companies while Hemanti used handle the administrative and financial affairs. It is suspected that the money was invested in different assets.” 
 
 It all started on October 28 last year when   (65), one of the investors, lodged a complaint with the economic offences wing alleging that DSK had failed to return Rs 4.4 lakh which he had deposited with one of the group’s companies. This opened a floodgate of complaints by several other depositors who approached the EOW. Over the last three months, 4,020 depositors came forward and recorded their statements and the collective amount of cheating alleged in these complaints is over Rs 280.58 crore.
 
 
