 and  , who reigned supreme in Kollywood, also gave Hindi cinema gems like ‘Sadma’, ‘Hey Ram’, ‘Andha Kanoon’ and ‘Bewafai’. But with the duo starting a new innings in politics, will their sayonara to films end the crossover of   heroes to  ? 

 Critics say given the current trend, only a few in the industry are inclined to spread their wings to other industries. The reasons are many — increased global visibility of south Indian cinema, actors’ comfort in Kollywood or a sheer lack of confidence to test new waters are a few to name. 
  
 
 Film historian Subaguna Rajan says actors in a patriarchal filmdom often like to stick to their own territories, unlike Kamal and Rajinikanth who were brave enough to explore beyond Kollywood. He, however, adds that the two stars had age on their side to shuttle between Bollywood and Kollywood. "Kamal was a child artiste and Rajinikanth started acting in Kollywood when he was in his 20s. Both were in their early 30s when they made their foray in Bollywood. They experimented with roles till they achieved stardom in Kollywood," he says.
 
 But film producer G Dhananjayan feels there is no need for actors like Ajith, Vijay or Suriya to enter Bollywood as they have already created a niche in Tamil film industry. "Times have changed. It is not mandatory for Tamil heroes to do Bollywood films. Kamal and Rajinikanth started their careers in Kollywood when actors like Sivaji Ganesan and Sivakumar were the stars. That gave Kamal and Rajinikanth the impetus to experiment in other languages. But even though Kamal and Rajinikanth did Bollywood movies, their place in Kollywood was safe, which may not be the case today," he says.
 
 "Vijay has political ambitions and will not venture into any other industry. Ajith, worked in Hindi film ‘Asoka’ (2001), but not with an intention to migrate to Bollywood," Rajan says. 
 
 Film historian Vamanan says unless a producer from north comes with a golden platter, no Tamil hero will agree to migrate or even do a couple of films. "By golden platter, I mean an excellent script, great remuneration and a key role. There is no effort from top rung ‘heroes’ to do other south Indian languages, leave alone Bollywood." 
 
 He attributes the change in attitude to the increased global reach of Tamil cinema today. "Those days Bollywood was considered superior, it had sub-continental reach. But now, Tamil movies are released abroad for the diaspora audience. Heroes no more need other industries to promote themselves," Vamanan adds. 
 
 Insecurities and the question of acceptability also keep many from venturing to other industries, say critics. Dusky women from the south are more acceptable than a mustached actor in Bollywood that swears by the no-moustache policy. 
 
 Even as many southern actors are wary about being relegated to playing the second fiddle in other industries, critics say, if the right efforts are made, an actor can create his own fan-base in an alien industry. Take for instance Telugu actor N T Rama Rao, who created a fan-base for himself among Tamil audience with his mythological roles in the 1950s and 1960s. "There are also actors like Prakash Raj, who do not aspire for central characters, but look for scope in roles that are offered to them," says Rajan.
 
 Dhanjayan, however, believes, given Tamil cinema’s advancement in the past decades, there should be more of an exchange of talent between industries instead of blind actors to Bollywood.
 
 "Actors like Nivin Pauly, Dulquer Salmaan and Dhanush are doing Hindi films, because they want to. But, when we are questioning Vijay and Ajith’s decision to not migrate, why don’t we ask the same question about Ranbir Kapoor, Ranveer Singh and Shahid Kapoor? The mentality is that Bollywood is superior, but in reality all industries are equal. We can proudly say south heroes are bolder compared to them," he says. 
 
 
