CHENNAI: On every weekend, for the past 10 months, thousands of suburban train commuters, especially those from the outskirts, have been inconvenienced as   cancelled several trains to carry out track  . Many commuters were unable to come to the city and several had to cancel outings to the zoo or the beach. But   show that the collective suffering has probably been worth it for track safety and reliability have gotten a boost.

 Data shows that in the first nine months of this fiscal, there has been an 11% drop in the number of rail fractures and welding failures — where tracks crack into two — in the Chennai division compared to the previous year. Railway engineers could renew 33% more tracks and almost 100% more sleepers, the   on which tracks are laid.
 
 Railway tracks are the weakest at interchange points. But compared to last year, there has been a 500% jump in the maintenance of these points this year. Along with men, track relaying train (TRT) and ultrasonic flaw detectors have been employed more this year.
 
 All this has been made possible because of the dedicated weekend blocks — when trains were cancelled to make way for maintenance work. The blocks enabled railway engineers repair tracks for four to eight hours at a stretch during daytime. Railways made a system of integrated daily traffic block programme, where maintenance works were identified through the week and scheduled so that passengers could be informed to avoid inconvenience.
 
 The effort, though, comes at a time when residents are shifting to neighbouring districts due to cheaper rents thereby pushing up the demand for trains to the city on weekends.
 
 “Trains are cancelled during weekends but this was done so that the tracks are in good shape to carry the maximum load on weekdays,” a senior railway official said. Though the number of trains at night is less, maintenance work is preferred during daytime as the quality of welding is better when the temperature is between 30°C and 40°C. Also, workers feel safer.
 
 Maintenance has not only improved the quality of tracks, but also made better train operations as permanent speed restrictions where tracks were weak were removed on seven locations. This increased the speed of trains over 48km from 75-90kmph to 100-105kmph, said officials.
 
 Also, due to variations in temperature, rails expand and become weak. While this is accounted for and a gap between two rails joined by fishplates is kept, during blocks, such tracks are cut to release the stress and replaced. Engineers also check the thickness and quality of track ballasts that cushion the load. Over time, ballasts grind against one another become less compact and need require refurbishment to ensure optimum thickness.
 
 
