Noida: Moti Lal Goyal (64), who was shot dead at a construction site in Sector 49 on Monday evening, had been declared a top land mafioso by the Ghaziabad district administration by 2005. 

 With several cases of land grab lodged against him that went back all the way to 2004, Goyal was arrested by the CBI for the first time in 2011, in connection with a Ghaziabad land fraud case, but released on bail soon after. According to police, Goyal was well known in Ghaziabad — where he lived in a joint family with his father, brothers, wife and two sons, in their family home in Navyug market — as well as in Gautam Budh Nagar, where he also operated.
 
  Goyal, who studied up to Class X, belonged to a middle-class family. He used to assist his father at his shop in Ghaziabad before foraying into property in the 1990s, but flew under the radar till 2004. 
 
 Police have released a list of 13 cases pending against him, for offences under Sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 469 (forgery for purpose of harming reputation), 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record), etc, of the IPC. 
 
 Seven of these cases are lodged in the Sihani Gate area of Ghaziabad alone, all of which are from 2004-05. Two other cases are lodged in Dadri — one each in Kasna and Indirapuram. All of these involve land grab and cheating, in areas like Manakpur and Bhowapur in Ghaziabad. 
 
 While he had good relations with politicians across the spectrum, the first legal action against him was taken when, in 2004, then district magistrate (DM) Santosh Yadav and ADM (finance) Rajesh Prakash initiated an inquiry into his dealings. In 2005, a case was lodged against him under sections 2/3 of the Gangster’s Act at Sihani Gate police station. 
 
 In 2006, a case of land grab that took place in 2005, involving around 52 hectares in Ghaziabad’s Arthala, was handed over to CBI. Subsequently, he was also accused of grabbing government land worth crores in Dadri. In 2008, CBI filed its chargesheet against Goyal in the Arthala case. 
 
 An inquiry ordered by the Ghaziabad DM in 2012, revealed Goyal’s collusion with government officials — including those in tehsils, UP Housing and Development Board (UPHDB), municipal corporations, etc — and led to termination of service of UPHDB executive engineer Suresh Chandra.
 
 Sector 49 SHO Pankaj Pant said that in the recent past, Goyal had a fallout with his friends, who he had given space to carry out businesses. They include Brij Pal, Vikram, Vijay and Anil, who is the son of slain Congress functionary Phire Lal. Goyal’s elder son Utkarsh (30), who handles his property business, said though his father had some cases against him, they had never taken possession of any land belonging to private individuals. “All his cases involved possession of government land,” he said.
 
 
