HYDERABAD:   (IRS) officer   has topped the civil services examination 2017, results of which were announced on Friday by the   (UPSC). Anudeep is currently working in Hyderabad as assistant commissioner (customs and indirect taxes). He belongs to the 2013 batch of Indian Revenue Service.

 Other Telangana candidates who made it to the top slots are Srisailam Sai (43 rank),   (100 rank), G Madhuri (144 rank), Vivek Johnson (195 rank), Sai Praneet (196 rank), and Yadavalli Akshaya Kumar (624 rank). Sai Praneet, who cleared the exam in first attempt, is the son of former IPS officer Lakshminarayana, who served as the joint director of CBI in Hyderabad. Akshaya Kumar is the son of police constable Y Dayakar attached to Mamnoor police station in Warangal.
 
  
  
 A native of Metpally village in Jagatyal district, Anudeep is an engineering graduate from Birla Institute of Technology and Science (BITS), Pilani. He hails from a well-educated family and his father Manohar is an assistant divisional engineer with the Northern Power Distribution Company Limited of Telangana. He opted for Telugu in Indian language paper for the civil services examination. He also chose anthropology.
 
 28-year-old Anudeep is a man with commitment and does not leave the race till he achieves the goal. His selection to the IAS speaks of his “never quit” motto. This was his last attempt and he succeeded. Anudeep had appeared for the civil services examination four times. Though, he could not make it in the first attempt in 2012, but was selected the next year. He appeared in 2014 and 2015 as well, but could not clear it.
 
 In his fifth and last attempt in civil services examinations 2017 , Anudeep made Telangana proud by emerging as the topper. Prior to joining the IRS, he served as a product quality analyst with Google in Hyderabad. He is an enthusiast of artificial intelligence.
 
 “It’s exciting,” Anudeep said, adding he has not yet come to terms with this news. “This time was my last attempt for the civil services and I had studied hard to realise my goal of making it to the  ,” an elated Anudeep said, recalling his rigorous daily study schedule. He topped the list of 990 candidates recommended for IAS, IFS, IPS and other Central services. Anudeep has opted for Telangana cadre to “serve his native state”.
 
 Anudeep studied in Sri Suryodaya High School and later in  . He graduated in electronics and instrumentation engineering in 2011. During training in the IRS, he stood first in the batch in weapons training programme held at the National Industrial Security Academy (NISA), Hyderabad.
 
 As many as 9,57,590 candidates applied for the civil services examination and of them, 4,56,625 candidates had appeared. In all 13,366 candidates had qualified for the main examination held in October-November last year. Of them, 2568 candidates had qualified for interview held during February-April this year.
 
