NEW DELHI: Already low growth projection for 2017-2018 would be even lower if   were calculated using the old method, said the  , slamming the government for “hype”, “hyperbole” and “headline management instead of “solid work”.

 
  The Congress was joined by the CPM, which called the government’s economic policies jumlanomics". The CPM, too, was talking about what it believes is hyperbole on the part of the Narendra Modi government.
 
  Yesterday, the Central Statistical Organisation estimated that the country's economy will slow 6.5 percent in 2017-18, lower than the year-ago period's 7.1 percent.
 
  
  
  Congress leader Salman Anees Soz was referring to the fact that in June last year, the statistics ministry had changed the base year of national accounts to 2017-18 from 2011-12 after completion of the household consumer expenditure survey and labour force data by the end of 2018.
 
  In a press release, the Congress party held finance minister Arun Jaitley and PM Modi responsible for "dealing a catastrophic blow to India's growth story".
 
  "'Hype', 'Hyperbole' and 'Headline Management' cannot be a substitute for grim reality on the ground," it said.
 
  
  
  Congress president   said the economic slowdown is a result of "finance minister Arun Jaitley's genius and PM Modi's Gross Divisive Politics (GDP)".
 
  
  
  The Congress blamed GST and the note ban for the grim situation.
 
  "The double whammy of the ‘Modi Made Disaster of Demonetisation’ and the implementation of a flawed GST (Gabbar Singh Tax) are squarely responsible for economy's downturn,” the Congress added, referring to the name Congress president Rahul Gandhi gave the unified tax regime.
 
  The Congress also accused the Centre of "manufacturing international reports" that talk of India's positive economic growth. In March last year, the Congress had questioned the reliability of the US-based international rating agency Moody's upgrade of India's sovereign rating from Baa3 to Baa2.
 
  Senior Congress leader   cited GDP figures from the last three years to assert that there has been a slowdown in economy.
 
  
  
  "Will government continue to claim that India's growth rate is robust? In a slowdown, how will jobs be created? And how will the promised two crore jobs per year be created? It is time government stops making tall claims and bends down to do solid work," he said in subsequent tweets.
 
  In fact, CPM leader Sitaram Yechury said that social harmony and amity are a prerequisite for economic growth.
 
  "Social harmony and amity are a prerequisite for economic progress too. You can't polarise a society and spread hate while seeking votes and hope for high economic growth," he said in a tweet.
 
  "Will Modi answer or will it be met with his usual tactic of going silent on issues that really matter? #Jumlanomics," he said in another tweet.
 
  BJP’s Rajya Sabha MP, Subramanian Swamy, said that India would need to grow at the rate of 10 percent annually to reduce poverty to zero in the next ten years.
 
  
  
 
