Indore: Water scarcity issues in over 70 residential colonies in city would be resolved soon as chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan laid the foundation stone for construction of overhead tanks in eight areas on Wednesday.

 With this, a water supply network of 198 kilometre would be also laid by Indore Municipal Corporation across the city. Estimated cost of the projects is Rs76.87 crore.
 
 Among the areas where civic body would construct overhead tanks include Harun Colony Maidaan, Tapeshwari Baag, Mitrabandhu Nagar, Triveni Park, Suniket Apartment, Musakhedi, Alok Nagar and Paliwal Nagar.
 
 While overhead tanks would be constructed at a cost of Rs 18.57 crore, remaining 58.30 crore would be spent by civic body for laying water supply lines.
 
 The corporation will spend the money under Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transportation (AMRUT) with 33.33 % and 50 % of the expenses to be borne by Centre and state respectively.
 
 Mayor Malini Gaud said that with the project also includes maintenance of overhead tanks and water pipelines for the next 10 years. “Old pipelines which are being used to supply drinking water will be repaired under the same project,” she said.
 
 Gaud also claimed that construction of the overhead water tanks will not only help residents of around 70 localities but also reduce the civic body’s dependency on water tankers especially during the summers. “In most of the areas, tap water pipelines have already been laid. With construction of these new tanks, the residents will get tap water,” she added.
 
 Apart from laying foundation stone for construction of these overhead tanks and water supply network, CM Chouhan also inaugurated various development projects in city that includes - construction of 14 community halls and development of roads at Rs3.10 crore, connection of primary and secondary sewer lines at Rs1.64crore and 1.78crore respectively. Chouhan also announced that a fund of Rs14.30crore would also be spent for development projects related with compost pit, roads, community hall and schools in the same area.
 
 
