Mumbai is sweltering under unprecedented temperatures of 36-37 degree Celsius, and while people are coping with the heat and humidity, it is the animals and birds that are worst affected. So, a bunch of like-mined animal lovers have come together to help these strays across the city to beat the heat. Thoughtful Mumbaikars are placing and maintaining stone bowls in the corners of footpaths, gardens, malls and shopping plazas.

 “Summer is at its peak already and that is the reason we have begun keeping water bowls out for strays. These are heavy cement bowls, and unlike plastic ones, they stay put at one place. We had first begun doing this quite a few years ago and this year, there are many people from all over Mumbai and the neighbouring suburbs, actively participating in this drive,” says animal activist Nilesh Bhanage.
 
 And not just activists, there are also general people who are passionately involved in this initiative. Benaifer Vikamsey, an entrepreneur who resides in Wadala, had adopted a dog couple of years ago. And since then, she became a part of many animal welfare groups and her sensitivity towards stray animals increased manifold. “When you have a child (referring to pets) of your own, you suddenly begin to see children from a different point of view. And that is what happened with me. Now, I have become more aware and try to make sure that the strays are taken care of.”
 
 Sharmee Bhatt, a co-ordinator of the   for In Defence Of Animals (IDA) and a resident of Kandivali says, “We have free cement bowl collection centers in Bhandup, Kandivali and Dadar.”
 
 Summer is a difficult season for strays. Since most don’t have easy accessibility to clean water, they have to depend on filthy drain water, open, and stagnated water or stay thirsty for hours in a day. They suffer both ways — having unclean water exposes them to various diseases and staying without water leads to dehydration.
 
 “Diseased strays affect us too. So, if not for the animal, at least for their own sake, people should provide clean water to them,” states Benaifer. Gitanjali Verma, a young girl working at a popular salon chain in Powai, is a regular with   maintenance. Every morning, she cleans the bowls and fills them with water. Around two to three refills are required every day. 
 
 
 
 It all started with  , who is based in Atlanta and frequently visits Mumbai, who noticed the plight of the animals during summers. She would buy buckets and give it to shopkeepers so they could fill water and keep it for strays. “The next time I visited Mumbai, I went around checking for all the buckets I had given out in my earlier visit, but I did not find any. Those in the vicinity told me that within a few weeks of placing them, the buckets had disappeared. That is when I realised that we have to come up with something that is heavy and does not have any resale value. I chanced upon the idea of cement bowls that are sturdy and slightly heavy, so people don’t steal them easily. That’s how the Water Bowl Project began in 2010.”
 
 Talking about the movement she pioneered, Sarita says, “This project since has been successful across the country and has helped animals. In the last nine years, I have given out almost 20,000 bowls in various cities. I have my database for each city, where I work with local animal lovers and keep a check on how the bowls are doing, and whether they are being filled every day and cleaned often. I travel to these cities once a year and meet with local volunteers.”
 
 There are some groups of people in the city who collect cement bowls that is distributed free of cost by animal rights organisations like IDA in Deonar. There are also some other organisations like PAWS (Peoples Animal Welfare Society) that sell cement bowls for a nominal price. Sarita also gives away bowls after she verifies that the person asking for the free bowl is serious about the cause and will actually take care of strays. Animal lovers take these bowls and keep them at places that are frequently accessed by bird, dogs and cats.
 
 
 
 There are also some positive things that cheers up the activists. Namita Dsouza, a fashion store owner in Thane, has found that there are many young people who are keen to help the strays. “I feel that Gen Y is extremely compassionate towards animals. They not just look after them, but bathe and feed them, and also get them treated for their injuries.”
 
 
 
 “We need to teach school kids about being compassionate and inculcating respect for all other living beings,” says Sarita. She explains further, “It’s in their formative years that these values need to be instilled in them so that they start caring earlier on in their lives and help animals with what they need to, to survive safely in our environment. Children, with the right teachings, will grow up to become responsible citizens and will create a world that will be fair to one and all.”
 
  
  
 
 
 While there are many enthusiastic supporters and animal lovers who are going the extra mile to help strays in the city, there are also the usual miscreants who disrupt the activity. Namita says, “These bowls are used by dogs, cats and birds to drink water from. And it is quite strange that there are people who steal these bowls. Some pick it up to use them as planters at home, while there are also others who simply break or destroy the bowls for sheer fun. We had stopped using plastic bowls initially because rag pickers would take them away. But even these cement bowls have to be replaced often by us.”
 
  
  
 
 
 These cement bowls that are kept at various places across the city need to be cleaned and refilled daily. So, volunteers are needed to make sure that all through the season, a smooth process is followed. In order to work towards this, every Mumbaikar can have a bird feeder installed in their balconies / windows. If someone finds an injured or de-hydrated stray in the city, they can approach animal welfare groups like IDA, PAWS, Group of Animal Lovers (GOAL), Animals Matter To Me (AMTM) and Just Fur You (JFU), among others.
 
 
