In a way,   is the most democratic   – as he is of the fans, by the fans, and for the fans. In an interview with British talk show host   in 2016,   explained Deadpool’s edginess by explaining that it is rated R due to the cuss words and graphic violence in it. “I think it’s certificate 15 in the UK and in China, it is actually rated ‘Go f*** yourself’,” Reynolds added with a poker face alluding to the film being banned in China. It’s typical Reynolds, or maybe it’s typical Deadpool, because on most days, it’s hard to tell the difference between the two! The Canadian actor has virtually lived Deadpool for well over a decade.

  
    as Deadpool’s arch-nemesis, Cable
 
 
 In 2004, Reynolds partnered with writer/director   (of the Blade trilogy fame) to bring the character on to the silver screen, but the project kept hitting roadblock after roadblock. At one instance, it was a rights issue between two studios, the other time it was fans’ unfavourable response to the character’s cameo in the 2009 film 'X-Men Origins: Wolverine', and even Reynolds’ disastrous 'Green Lantern' movie in 2011. In Reynolds’ words, “It’s the best and worst relationship I have been in. Eleven years, I’ve been trying to get this movie made and we wrote a script about six years ago and shot a bit of test footage for this movie. That test footage sat on a shelf for four years.”
 It was in 2014 that a fortunate incident happened. Someone posted the near two-minute test footage of the movie online. And the internet promptly erupted. Within hours, the clip went viral with fans, chat groups, and   forums pleading with Fox to give the movie a green light. “It was super crazy,” Reynolds recalled in a 2016 interview, “It went nuts. People just kept writing, pleading for 'Deadpool' to get made.” 
 The result was that within 24 hours of the leak, Fox gave a go-ahead to the film that was languishing in development hell for over a decade. There have been several crowd-funded films, but 'Deadpool' was the world’s first crowd-driven blockbuster. In a tweet, the actor posted in 2015, he said, “People keep thanking me for getting 'Deadpool' made. I didn’t get it made. You did. The internet put Fox in a hammerlock death-grip.”
 
  
  On keeping the look of Deadpool as close as it was in the comic books, Reynolds had said, “The character’s ripped right out of the comics... You can’t promise 'Deadpool' fans the authentic Deadpool and then give him a pair of pretty blue eyes.”
 
 
 
 In March this year, the footage for a shelved 'Deadpool' animated series with Reynolds voicing the character was leaked online, once again to euphoric reactions from the fans. This was barely a week after writer/actor   tweeted the 16-page script of his cancelled 'Deadpool' animated series, prompting fans to suggest that “leaking footage and scripts is the easiest way to get the green light for a Deadpool project”. That it is even considered a plausible idea shows how much of the Deadpool’s creative process and universe is driven by fan reactions. Over the years, how the character has come up and his universe come to be shaped has largely been governed by what the fans want it to do. After the character’s appearance in 'X Men Origins: Wolverine' was derided by fans, the planned spin off decided to ignore that avatar in favour of going “back to the roots of the character known for his slapstick tone and propensity to break the fourth wall”.
 Even the character’s design and look was based on what the fans were talking about in discussion forums and fan groups on social media, according to the makers. Talking about why they chose to keep the mask’s comic book-ey white eyes even though other superheroes do away with them in the movies, Reynolds told Collider in 2015, “The character’s ripped right out of the comics – that’s what we’re going for. You can’t promise 'Deadpool' fans the authentic Deadpool and then give him a pair of pretty blue eyes. You have to make it look the way it’s supposed to look. That’s all.”
 
  
  
 
 
 The first film’s director Tim Miller attributed the film’s success to his understanding of the core fan group of Deadpool. During the shoot in Canada in 2015, he had said, “We’re fans (him and Reynolds). So we just want to be true to the original spirit of it. I feel like, we talk a lot about, like, will the fans not like this or not like that. I don’t worry about that so much, because I feel like I’m the core demographic wrapped up in one sort of semi-fat 50-year-old package. And I feel like I got a good compass for what they can tolerate... I think they’re going to love it.”
 The fans’ power in influencing major decisions about the franchise becomes evident when one looks at how various actors campaigned to be cast as Cable, Deadpool’s arch-nemesis / frenemy, who will be introduced in the sequel (and is being played by Josh Brolin, fresh from his success as another iconic Marvel character Thanos). Ever since the post-credit scene in 'Deadpool' announced that the sequel will feature Cable, a couple of actors took to social media to campaign for the role. 
 While none of the attempts were successful in managing to convince the studio executives, the fact that the actors sought the fan route to campaign for the part instead of meeting studio executives, shows how important the fans are in the Deadpoolverse.
 
  
  (Right) Avatar fame   would often post his workout routines, urging fans to rally behind him.
 Last year, Deadpool creator Rob Liefeld tweeted to Russell   asking him to audition for Cable. Crowe also tweeted an image created by an artist depicting him as Cable
 
 
 
  
  Over the years, how Deadpool has shaped up, has largely been governed by the fans. Even Deadpool’s design and look was based on what the fans were talking about in discussion forums and fan groups on social media, according to the makers
 
 
