In the latest episode of  ,   gives birth to a beautiful baby girl. Doctors inform Badshah and   about the good news. Iman’s superior doctor asks Badshah why   isn’t in the hospital. He shares that Ranajay is with   and Iman has clearly told them to not inform him about her.

 Shruti is awaiting the surgery. She is worried. The doctor informs Shruti that she will recover soon but she needs to have a strong willpower. Ranajay provides her psychological support. 
 
 Iman’s condition deteriorates. She keeps asking about Ranajay. The doctors get worried about her critical condition. They inform Badshah about the situation and ask him to inform Ranajay.
 
 Badshah reluctantly calls Ranajay but he refuses to come as Shruti immediately needs blood and there is no one else to help her. Badshah criticises him for not neglecting Iman.
 
 Iman’s situation is continuously deteriorating. Badshah visits her room where she is fighting for her life. He tries to boost her willpower.
 
 Ranajay, on the other hand, is worried about Iman too. He wants to visit her immediately but he is unable to do so as Shruti is also unwell.
 
 The doctor informs Ranajay that Shruti’s surgery is successful. Very soon she will be discharged. Ranajay informs Shruti that Iman is in a hospital and he is going to visit her. Shruti seems to have a soft corner for Ranajay.
 
 Doctors try to treat Iman with utmost care and she responds.
 
 Ranajay arrives at the hospital. Rupkotha and Iman’s superior doctor stop him from entering Iman’s cabin. But he doesn’t listen to anyone. He says that he will leave if Iman asks him to do so.
 
 Iman feels better. Rupkotha informs her about Ranajay’s arrival. She also informs her that Ranajay refused to come to the hospital when Badshah told him about Iman's state.
 
 Knowing the truth, Iman requests him to leave. Ranajay tries to explain the situation. But she doesn’t want to listen. Being a father, Ranajay at least wants to see the baby girl but Iman stops her from doing so. 
 
 Ranajay faces criticism when he arrives at home. His entire family speaks against him. Ranajay alleges that Rupkotha has provoked Iman due to which she kept him from seeing their child. Badshah supports his wife and says that it was his decision to stop Ranajay from visiting Iman.
 
 Ranajay argues with Badshah and says that he has no right to interfere in his personal life. He also suggests him to take care of his marital life first.
 
  Ranajay's father, too, supports Iman’s decision. He says that Ranajay should have been with Iman when she was fighting for her life. But he has proved to be an irresponsible husband.
 
 Ranajay says that as a father no one can stop him from seeing his child.
 
