PATIALA: Following a video showing   leader Harinderpal Singh   asking the party workers to ‘slit political opponents to win panchayat elections’ going viral, the   (SAD) has demanded registration of a criminal case against him.

 Reacting on the issue, SAD president   on Tuesday evening tweeted: “I ask CM @capt_amarinder to register a case against Congress leader Harinderpal Mann for inciting violence and instigating Congress workers to murder their Akali opponents. Mann told workers to take ‘kirpans’ from him and murder Akali workers in forthcoming panchayat elections. What can be worse?”
 
 When contacted, Harry Mann, who has recently been nominated as syndicate member of the  , said he had gone to Devigarh to address a party workers’ meeting and used the above words to boost the morale of the workers. He said the Akalis had stopped the Congress workers for over 10 years. “Now the party men need to be told that they should no longer remain fearful of the Akalis and work for the party with full enthusiasm to ensure that they win the next panchayat elections,” Mann said defending his statement.
 
 He said wherever he had gone during the last 10 months after the Congress came to power in the state, he was met with party workers who still felt dejected at the manner they had been treated by the Akalis. “I tried to lift their spirits by making them feel that they no longer need to be afraid of anyone”, he said.
 
 The Congress leader, who had unsuccessfully contested the last assembly polls from Sanour segment in Patiala district during a party workers’ meet at Devigarh had said, “Dhakka na hon dayo, ona ton dabb na jayo. Vaddh ke mere kol aa jayo. Tuhanu ungal nahi lagan denda. (Don’t let them use force, don’t be suppressed by them. Cut them and come to me. I will ensure that no one touches you).”
 
 The Congress leader is also heard saying he would go to each village and distribute kirpans to party workers and those contesting the panchayat elections and would ask them to use it on those who stand against them.
 
 Reacting sharply to the speech, former CM   said it was highly provocative and irresponsible statement given by someone who had contested the assembly polls on a ticket of a national party. He said the Congress had always subjected the Akalis to atrocities, but the party men had stood against all such butcheries.
 
 Interacting with media persons at the residence of former Akali minister Surjit Singh Rakhra, Badal said the SAD had stood against the use of all sorts of force by the Congress and it would continue to do so. He said the speech given by the Congress leader could lead to violence in the state. “Such statement speaks of the manner in which the Congress intended to win the panchayat elections”, Badal said.
 
 Meanwhile, Rakhra said the party has already demanded registration of a criminal case against Mann for provoking the public and hurting Sikh religious sentiments by claiming that he would distribute ‘Sri Sahibs’ to win Panchayati elections. He said the   had adopted   as a symbol of protection and not as a weapon for killing. He said the Congress had a tradition of vitiating the peaceful atmosphere of the state and now its leaders were openly threatening the Akali workers.
 
 Harinderpal Singh Chandumajra, SAD MLA from Sanour assembly segment who defeated Harry Mann during 2017 elections, said the statement was highly condemnable. He said such a statement could not have been given without the patronage of the top leaders of the Congress party. The MLA demanded that Mann should be expelled from the syndicate of the Punjabi University for provoking hatred amongst the people for political gains.
 
 
