MOHALI: Around 57 shops were razed and furniture worth crores of rupees destroyed in a major fire that broke out in the furniture market of Lakhnaur in   in the early hours of Friday.

 The fire started around 3am. It took 10 fire tenders from Mohali, Chandigarh and Derabassi two hours to douse the blaze. Two fire tenders were present at the spot till 11am on Friday.
 
 There were a total of 80 shops in the market. According to eyewitnesses, the fire started from an explosion in one of the shops. There is a dispute going on in a court on the land where the fire occurred.
 
 Mohali fire officer   said, “We got a call around 3.15 am and rushed eight fire tenders from Mohali fire station. We controlled the fire within two hours.”
 
 The reason behind the fire is yet to be ascertained, but prima facie it looks like a case of short circuit due to improper wiring. The Mohali fire department had to take help from nearby Derabassi and Chandigarh fire departments that rushed one fire tender each.
 
 Manish Verma, who owned a shop, said the total loss could go up to more than Rs 5 crore. “Every shop had furniture worth lakhs of rupees,” said Verma.
 
 Another shopkeeper said as most shops had paint and paint thinner stored that allowed the fire to spread quickly.
 
 Sources said the Mohali administration has been planning to shift the furniture market from Lakhnaur for some time now.
 
 Deshraj, who works in the nearby areas as a painter, said he lived in the market with his family. He has two children and his wife. His wife with his younger son was in Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh.
 
 “The explosion took place just a few metres away from my house. I started picking my belongings from the house, but the embers hit my arm and I fled with my son. My house material and cycle were razed,” said Deshraj
 
 Sonu, who owned a godown in the market, said, “Foam was stored in my godown which was burnt to ashes. I have suffered losses of lakhs of rupees.”
 
 ‘We have given this land to the shopkeeper on rent since 2002. The market was spread in three acres of land. The Mohali administration has been trying to acquire our property. Duo to this a dispute is going on in a court regarding the land,” he said.
 
 Shopkeepers and workers, who work in the furniture market, demanded compensation from the government and local administration. Munish Verma, who owned a shop, said over 500 labourers worked here. All of them lost their jobs.
 
 Residents of Lakhnaur village, who lived next to the market, spent the night on the road. Karmjeet Kaur, a housewife, said, “Our house has a common wall with the market. Around 3.15 an unknown person knocked at the gate and informed us about the incident. My whole family spent night on the road. We entered our house after 7 am.” Baljeet Kaur, a housewife, said, “Our bedroom was filled with smoke. I, my husband and three-year-old child spent the night on road.”
 
 
