Experts working on large construction projects said it was not possible to specify a uniform depth for piling works. The depth of piling for highrises are decided by soil condition and weight of the structure that will be built above it.

 “Soil testing is done before designing and inviting quotes for a building. Soil testing must be done to determine to what extent piling should be done,” said architect S Gopakumar.
 
 In Kochi, some regions are situated below the sea level. So, engineers are cautious while drilling in regions close to wetlands and marshy areas. “At  , for constructing highrises piling depth may be as deep as 45-50m. Whereas in some places like Thrikkakara, it might just be 10m deep,” he said.
 
  (DMRC), which has undertaken massive piling works in the city, said that the Metro structure’s piles have gone down to a maximum depth of 50m. “The structural engineer decides the depth of files after studying the soil investigation report. Factors like seismic activity will be considered, and Kochi falls in the zone three,” said a   engineer.
 
 According to DMRC while they could go ahead with normal piling works from   to   region, they had to drill deeper at many regions between Edappally and Vyttila. Many of these regions fall under the category of wetland. “At some areas, the water table will be high. This is another factor which decides the depth of piling works,” said a DMRC official. Even groundwater samples are collected and tested to consider the possible chemical effects on concrete and the reinforcement.
 
 While undertaking piling works for highrises, experts should also consider the structures and building in the immediate locality of the construction site. “Sometimes when piling works are undertaken at a particular site, it could cause damage or destabilize other structures in the immediate surroundings. Local bodies and other civic authorities – which issue building permits – should consider these aspects before giving approval,” said a   official.
 
