LUCKNOW/KANPUR: Chief minister   on Friday inaugurated   (Science Bus) in Lucknow. The bus has been designed by IIT-Kanpur and   (STC). 

 
 The purpose of launching the unique bus is to make students aware about science and develop their interest in it. IIT-K director Prof Abhay Karandikar was present in Lucknow during inauguration of the bus.
 
 The bus will visit schools in each and every district in the state and provide latest information regarding science and technology to the students. It will stay put at each village for atleast two days where students will get a chance to see science models, projects, apparatus and labs. They will also see science instruments such as telescope, microscope etc.
 
 Speaking on the occasion Yogi Adityanath said, "Vigyan Bus will help create awareness regarding science and technology among students. It will help students of rural areas which face electricity problems and lack of technology to learn about new and exciting developments in science". 
 
 Faculty members of the institute, Prof Deepu Philip and Prof  , who have designed the Science Bus and set up labs and other experiments with the help of their students Mayank, Rahul and Mritunjay, said that they had been working on the 'Vigyan Bus' for the last one-and-a-half year and are successful in developing and designing it as per the requirement. 
 
 Talking to TOI, Prof Roy said a Bharat Benz bus has been converted into a science bus which has several science models, projects and experiments which will help students understand the basics of science. 
 
 He said students would be able to see scientific instruments such as microscope, telescope and other such items. The bus would stay at each school for two days to give students in rural pockets an ample chance to learn through science models and instruments, he added.
 
 Prof Roy said that the students would also learn about clean environment, pollution, social awareness and work expertise with by the Vigyan Bus. About 300 video tutorials are also available on the bus which will help students learn better and faster, he added.
 
