SHILLONG: Chief minister   Sangma and state tourism minister Metbah Lyngdoh met Union minister of state for tourism KJ Alphons in New Delhi on Monday and sought his intervention to initiate "destination tourism" projects in the state. 

 The CM discussed the development of tourism infrastructure and amenities in different tourist locations with particular focus on Sohra (Cherrapunjee), Umiam ( ) and eco-tourism destinations of   and Balpakram.
 
 "We have to build tourism around Unique Selling Points (USPs) of the region and the focus of the government will be to balance tourism potential of the state in sync with creating avenues for the farming community as well as youth to take entrepreneurial activities," the chief minister said.
 
 The Union tourism minister told the chief minister that luxury tourism can also be explored in Meghalaya.
 
 "Meghalaya is a priority state for the ministry of tourism. We are going to extend all possible help to boost tourism. I will personally take up the issue of road connectivity in Meghalaya with Union transport minister for his personal intervention," said Alphons in his conversation with the CM. 
 
 Alphons also conveyed to Conrad that 12 different locations have been identified in the northeast to promote destination tourism, including Sohra, where caving will be the point of focus. "We want to develop the cave network of Meghalaya and make it a major attraction for tourists," Alphons said.
 
 Alphons also assured the CM that all pending tourism projects of the state will be be implemented in right earnest.
 
 Chief Minister Conrad Sangma also called on Union minister of rural development and Panchayat Raj, Narendra Singh Tomar in New Delhi today and sought the Centre's support for development of water harvesting and check-dams to tap the rich sources of the State and provide safe drinking water to the people.
 
 "We want to ensure that every village and household in Meghalaya has access to safe drinking water. The focus is to ensure that along all water sources, reservoirs are constructed, so that water can be made readily available to the people," the chief minister said in his deliberation with the Union Minister. On a target basis, Meghalaya wants to create infrastructure to tap water resources, so that every household and village can be covered over the next few years, he added.
 
 "The Union minister suggested that the CM make an official visit to   to take stock of the best practices of water conservation and water distribution models initiated by the Himalayan state," an official release said.
 
 The CM also sought full support for the successful implementation of Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadhak Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana.
 
 "We want to implement all Central government schemes and ensure monitoring and accountability," the CM said in his deliberation, while apprising the Union minister of the initiative to seek ground report on all projects and schemes from DCs of respective districts on a monthly basis. 
 
 
