PATNA: Deputy   Sushil Kumar   on Monday inaugurated the newly constructed building of T K Ghosh Academy, now known as   Rajkiya Uchh Vidyalaya. The first president of India, Dr  , had studied in this school.

 Inaugurating the three-storey school building with 20 rooms, Modi said all government school students must link their bank accounts to Aadhaar numbers to avail the benefits of different schemes like poshak yojana, cycle yojana, midday meal and scholarships. “The deadline to link Aadhaar is March 31. The money under the schemes will be transferred directly to the student’s bank account,” he said.
 
 He also announced the government decision to construct senior secondary schools in 4,000 panchayats of  . “Priority will be given to those panchayats which have been declared open defecation free (ODF),” he said.
 
 Modi also recalled how enrolment of girls in the state has increased over the years. “In 2005, the number of girls studying in Class IX was only 1.63 lakh. Now it is 7.13 lakh,” he said.
 
 Talking about the glorious past of the school, he said it was the alma mater of not only Dr Rajendra Prasad but also luminaries like noted parliamentarian Sachhidananda Sinha and former   CM Bidhan Chandra Roy. He also assured the school principal of all possible assistance to the institution.
 
 Established in 1869, the school has been referred to as a ‘good school’ in the autobiography of Dr Prasad.   over a little over one acre land on Ashok Rajpath opposite the Patna College, the school has been targeted by builders and land developers because of its prime location.
 
 The new building was constructed last year with a cost of Rs7.5 crore sanctioned by the state government in 2014. The land was acquired by the builders on the payment of Rs23 crore by the state government.
 
 At present, the school has 70 students in Class IX and X and seven teachers. School principal Dr   said the school had many students in the past. “But in the land dispute, students and teachers were threatened by the land mafia and rumours were spread that the school had ceased to exist. We will try to bring back the glory of this school. The school administration has also applied for the provisional affiliation for senior school certificate examination,” she said.
 
 
