CHENNAI: In a bid to sustain pressure on the Centre over setting up the   Management Board (CMB), opposition parties led by the  , at an all-party meeting in Chennai on Sunday, resolved to call for a statewide bandh on April 5.

 The parties, which decided to block trains on the bandh day, will also hold protest marches across Cauvery delta districts to underscore the state’s rights in the water dispute, and show black flag to Prime Minister   and other Union ministers during their visits to the state.
 
 Soon after the meeting, opposition party leaders led by DMK working president M K   participated in a protest at Valluvarkottam and courted arrest. They were released in the evening.
 
 Meanwhile, governor Banwarilal Purohit held a meeting with chief secretary  , home secretary Niranjan Mardi, DGP T K Rajendran and advocate general Vijay Narayanan on the law and order situation in the state. ‘Is there guv’s rule in TN or is it still run by EPS govt?’
 
 
 The governor’s half-anhour meet comes in the backdrop of the state continuing to witness series of protests over Cauvery, Sterlite’s expansion plan in Tuticorin and MDMK general secretary Vaiko’s march against the neutrino project in Theni district.
 
 
 There was no statement, however, either from the state government or from the Raj Bhavan. “The meeting lasted 15 to 20 minutes,” a Raj Bhavan official said. But, the fact that the governor had called for such a meeting was enough for leader of the opposition Stalin to raise his eyebrows. “Am wondering whether there is governor’s rule in   or is it still run by the   government,” Stalin told reporters.
 
 
 As if wanting to keep up the protest momentum on against the Centre and the state governments, the DMK on Sunday evening asked its party district secretaries to coordinate with district office bearers of allied parties and organise protests on a daily basis until the bandh.
 
 
 The decision for a statewide bandh was taken at an all-party meeting, convened by the DMK at the party headquarters Anna Arivalayam here on Sunday morning. The meeting was attended by several opposition parties in the state including the  , the CPI and CPM, VCK and   among others.
 
 
 “The all party meeting has decided to call for a statewide bandh on Thursday to protest against the Centre delaying the setting up of the Cauvery Management Board. I request all sections of people including traders and students to extend their full support to the bandh,” Stalin told reporters after the meeting.
 
 
 He also appealed to a traders’ wing, which had already given “shut down” call on April 3, to postpone it to April 5. “Since exams have been scheduled for students on April 3, I have requested the traders’ wing to postpone the planned shut down in order not to cause inconvenience to students and instead extend its support to the opposition bandh on April 5,” Stalin said.
 
