Nagpur: At a time when tall promises are being made by politicians to double the income of farmers by way of increased Minimum Support Price (MSP), and setting up food parks in every district of the country, ryots in Vidarbha have been forced to throw away their produce due to low prices. Forty-eight-year-old farmer Balwant Dadwal, who has a farm at Mandwa village near Hingna in Nagpur district, is staring at the mounds of tomatoes he has produced. Balwant, who owns around 40 acre farmland on very tough terrain, is a worried man as the prices of tomatoes have crashed. A vehicle full of tomato crates sent to Kalamna wholesale market was brought back without selling the produce, since it was fetching a very low price of Rs50 a crate, which comes to just Rs2 a kg. “The recent weather has weakened the yield and reduced its shelf life,” said Balwant, who, left with no option, decided to feed the tomato yield to his cattle. Balwant said it doesn’t make sense to sell tomatoes at Rs2 a kg as it does not recover even the basic expenses involved like seeds, fertilizers, pesticides, transportation and commission to agents. Pandurang Tarare, another villager involved in traditional farming, said he too was very depressed when he heard that the rates of tomatoes have gone below Rs50 per crate. He plans to wait another week, otherwise he would also feed the yield to his bullocks. He said the Centre should do something as farmers are facing hardships, especially in Vidarbha region. Shriram Ghadhave, president of Vegetable Growers’ Association of India (VGAI), said Maharashtra has seen a 10-15% rise in area under cultivation for tomatoes. Previously, farmers from western Maharashtra used to go for vegetable crops but in recent times farmers from Vidarbha and Marathwada too have started growing vegetables. He also attributed this growth to the good rainfall in the state last year. “As against 2.5 lakh hectares of tomato cultivation, this year we have about 3 lakh hectares,” he said. Lately, farmers have increased cultivation of vegetables as it ensures cash flow in the short term. This takes care of their immediate needs. However, as the number of farmers growing vegetables apart from their main stay crop has increased, it has led to an oversupply as well. It’s not only tomato, rates of other vegetables like brinjal, ladyfinger and cauliflower too have gone down throughout the region, said farmers as well as farm activists. Locally grown vegetables, including tomatoes, are fetching a price within Rs2-4 a kg. In some cases, it’s just a couple of rupees, say market sources. Kishore Tiwari of Vasantrao Naik Shetkari Swavalamban Mission (VNSSM) — the state government agency to tackle farm crisis — said if it’s tomatoes in Nagpur, in Yavatmal farmers have ended up in losses in brinjal and ladyfinger. “The rates of main crops like soyabean and cotton are already down. Now, there is a slump in vegetables which are grown to supplement income by farmers. There is no system of MSP for vegetables,” he said. “Farmers having irrigation facilities used to go for crops like wheat or gram. These days, vegetables are being preferred as well. This has led to a glut in Wardha. Farmers are not able to recover expenses in cauliflower cultivation,” said Vijay Jawandhia, a former Shetkari Sanghathana activist from Wardha. Vijay Ingle from Akola, a farmer who had bagged state government award for best practices, also confirmed that in his area farmers were setting aside an acre or half for vegetables. The rates are down due to oversupply, he said. Meanwhile, Nandkishore Gaur, president of vegetable traders at Kalamna Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) yard, said rates are expected to increase in the coming months.  “Tomatoes are reaped for four months, so farmers have a chance to recover their losses. Normally, the crop is grown in the month of October. However, these days large number of farmers in areas like Ramtek and Tumsar Road in Nagpur district have gone for the January crop, which will continue till April. At the same time, there are arrivals from other states like bordering Madhya Pradesh and Telangana as well. The supplies will recede after April, and the rates are expected to increase then,” he said.