NEW DELHI:   sensation   and talented Anish Bhanwala’s recent fruitful run, coupled with their successful transition from the junior to senior ranks, has led to a fresh debate - how to manage their workload and avoid burnouts.

 
 
 
 Manu, who recently shot to fame after becoming the youngest Indian to win a World Cup gold at the   in Mexico, is staring at a very busy year ahead.
 
 The Jhajjar girl will be flying out to Sydney early Saturday morning for the Junior World Cup (under-21 category). Thereafter, the 10m air pistol prodigy’s tournament schedule for 2018 will be like this - Gold Coast Commonwealth Games, four senior World Cups, trials for World Championships in Changwon and Jakarta Asian Games. Junior World Cup in Suhl, Germany could possibly be added to her itinerary. And, Manu is just 16 years old.
 
 
 
 Similarly, Anish, 15, has been named in the CWG squad and four senior World Cups. National Rifle Association of India (NRAI) would also be tempted to send the 25m rapid fire specialist to the Suhl World Championships.
 
 NRAI’s thought process is to allow Manu continued participation in senior events, but the same can’t be said about Anish which means that the Karnal boy would continue to juggle between the junior and senior categories.
 
 While NRAI may look to address Manu and Anish’s burnouts, the moot question remains - what about the bunch of other talented shooters? The federation is mindful of this fact and has started a separate programme to ensure this ‘junior-to-senior’ transition.
 
 “What was happening earlier was when the juniors were moving into seniors there were a large number of shooters who were little uncomfortable transiting from junior to senior ranks. So, for a two-year period we are trying to put them into a separate category and give them all the funding that is required for training and they will be coached by senior coaches too. They will be considered as ‘transit shooters’. This programme will be functional from the next nationals,” said Morad Ali Khan, former India shooter and member of the NRAI’s selection committee.
 
 “This programme will make them comfortable and once they find that they are comfortable, the next lot will come in. So it will be a continuous process. As of now, we are looking at 64 shooters but then events keep changing. There will be four shooters in each category,” he added.
 
 NRAI president Raninder Singh added: “We need to protect these youngsters from over-exposure. This is a very crucial period for these shooters as they make the transition.”
 
