Nagpur: Arjun Khandekar rallied back superbly to knock out second seed Jai Rajesh to storm into the Under-10 boys singles final in the Nagpur District Sub-Junior Badminton Championship, organized by the   Association, at the Subhedar Hall here on Sunday.

 
 
 The second day of the four-day tournament was quite hectic for the fancied players as they had to play multiple matches in various age groups.
 
 Unseeded Arjun, who had toppled seventh seed Parth Deshmukh and fourth seed   in the previous two matches, extended his giant-killing run by ousting Jai.
 
 In an exciting U-10 boys singles semifinal, Arjun recorded a brilliant come-from-behind 15-21, 21-15, 21-16 win to seal his place in the final.
 
 Arjun, a Standard IV student of Bhavans Triumurti Nagar, will meet   in the final on Monday. Top seed Rutva defeated third seed Sairaj Nayse 21-11, 21-11 in the second semis. Rutva established an early lead in the first game and maintained it till the end. He continued his dominance in the second game too with some solid display at the net.
 
 The U-10 girls section too witnessed major upset when third seed   shocked top seed   21-15, 21-14. In the Monday’s title clash, Ditisha will lock horns with Riddhima Sarpate, who got the better of Aditri Payasi 21-15, 21-13.
 
 Top seed Ojas Gedam, second seed Aryan Sadhankar, Sahil Jalgaonkar, Aditya Gadge, Adwait Mistri, Aryan Mandavgane, Mihir Patel and Jai Rajesh entered the U-13 boys singles quarters with contrasting victories.
 In the girls section, top seed Pinak Rokde along with second seed Krisha Soni, Tejaswi Harkare, Mrunmayee Pande, Nishika Gokhe, Avni Raich, Aditi Dhamankar and Radhika Parkhi sailed it to the last eight.
 
 There was a major upset in the U-15 girls singles when unseeded Pinak Rokde surprised second seed Aasavari Khandekar 21-12, 21-17 in the quarterfinal. Kripi Sajwan rallied back to beat   in three games. Top seed Atiti Sadhankar thumped Mrunmayee Pande, while Nikkita Joseph beat Vidhi Athilkar in the other quarters.
 
 Last tournament hero Sarthak Pakhmode, Krishna Chinchmalatpure, Devesh Jena, Arnav Arya, Arav Fernandez, Shashank Kulal and second seed Siddhant Bawankar moved up in the U-15 boys singles.
 
 
