NAGPUR: The controversy surrounding the failure in making arrests in the case of attack on crime branch squad took an unexpected turn on Thursday after gang leader   alias   and his close aide Imran Kaliya alias   walked into the court surrendering before the concerned magistrate.

 The court has now sent Ippa and Kaliya to the custody of Tehsil police till February 12. Tehsil police is learnt to have sought for seven days custody (till February 14). 
 
 Ippa and his gang had attacked one of their rivals Feroze Khan at Mominpura on December 25 following which an offence of attempt to murder had been registered at Tehsil police station. The gang had attacked crime branch squad on the following day. They had also damaged a police vehicle. Despite the gravity of the offence and it’s previous records, the city police seemed to be in no hurry to nab the offenders. 
 
 Amid various allegations highlighted by TOI, Ippa and Kaliya turned up at the court with their advocate from where the Tehsil police took their custody. In the same offence, Ippa’s accomplices Pawan Moryani and Sheikh Mohsin were also arrested but were sent to jail immediately after taking them into custody. In fact, it was reliably learnt that Moryani had spent barely couple of hours at Tehsil police station after he was brought from the custody of Pachpaoli cops. Moryani and Mohsin were arrested by Pachpaoli police station for their alleged involvement in the Ippa gang which had attacked cops. 
 
 Tehsil police, when asked about the sudden surrender of the gang that had so far remained elusive, claimed that Ippa and his accomplices must have been feeling the mounting pressure of the cops who were visiting their neighbourhood on a daily basis.
 
 TOI, in the past, had highlighted the allegations against a senior cop for intervening to get Ippa’s one of the accomplices released. The gangster was also booked in the case of attack on police squad. CP K Venkatesham had then claimed that the gangster was released as there was no evidence against him. The top cop had assured that the gangster would be rounded up once again in case some viable evidences surfaces against him in the ensuing probe. 
 
 
