GUWAHATI:   have arranged a three-layer security across the state ahead of January 26, a regular exercise to ensure safe 
  celebrations. While a high alert has been issued across the state, there is special focus on upper Assam and areas bordering Nagaland. City police have increased surveillance on 'incomers' from neighbouring states, officials have informed. 

 Preparations for the central R-Day celebration is on in full swing at the Khanapara veterinary college playground. Hundreds of people are expected to attend the ceremony.
 
 
 
 
 Already, the United Liberation Front of Western Southeast Asia (UNLFW), an umbrella group of rebel groups comprising Ulfa (Independent), Nationalist Socialist Council of Nagaland (K), Kamatapur Liberation Organization (KLO) and National Democratic Front of Boroland (S), has called for a total boycott of Republic Day.
 
 Guwahati police commissioner Hiren Nath said, "Special attention is being paid to people who are travelling here from outside the state. Miscreants from outside the city or state may act as mercenaries by rebel groups. Naka checking has been intensified at all the entry and exit points of the city." Sources said special focus is being given to people coming to the city from upper Assam, Manipur and Garo Hills.
 
 Nath added that ground intelligence, 360-degree surveillance and constant manual frisking on roads have been already put in place. City police have been constantly backed by CRPF, SSB and police commando units. River police have also been pressed for constant patrolling of river routes in and around the city, he added.
 
 Security forces are reportedly also fanning into the dense jungles along the Assam-Arunachal Pradesh border in Tinsukia, the Assam-Nagaland border in Sivasagar, the Assam-Bhutan borders in Baksa, Jorhat, Golaghat and BTAD areas, apart from maintaining round-the-clock vigil along the Assam-Meghalaya border in Goalpara district. Vital installations like refineries, railway bridges, railway stations and airports are also under special attention.
 
 Sources said two dreaded Ulfa (I) leaders - namely Udoy Asom and   - may try to create disturbances on January 26. Last year, militants had triggered at least seven low-intensity blasts on R-Day in several areas in Charaideo, Tinsukia, Dibrugarh, and Sivasagar districts.
 
 
