It’s a killer game like blue whale!’ 

 Soon after a 22-year-old engineering graduate Mithun Ghosh from Palakkad tragically lost his life, while riding to chase his dream of becoming an Iron Butt, such an allegation started doing the rounds. For a long time, he has apparently been gearing up to earn the much-coveted Iron Butt patch which requires an aspirant to ride 1000 miles within 24 hours. Unfortunately, Mithun died when he collided midway with a truck in Chithradurga, Karnataka.
 However, unlike in the case of the blue whale game, many have been raising voices in defence of the  , which is being taken up by many biking aficionados of Kerala. In conversation with the Motor Vehicles Department, Iron Butts of the State and bike experts, we find out what the challenge is all about and whether it’s a risk worth taking.
 
 
 
 The Kerala Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) feels the Iron Butt Challenge is an extremely dangerous pursuit. Dileep Kumar, an inspector with MVD, says, “Not just on Kerala roads, it is dangerous on roads anywhere in our country. It’s not about the roads, actually. These riders try to go at an average speed of 65 km per hour, avoiding even food and loo breaks, for 24 hours. Especially towards the last portion of the ride, exhaustion overpowers them physically and mentally and they are highly prone to accidents.”
 
 However, as it is an individual challenge that anyone can take up, there is hardly anything that can be done to stop it, he says. “At least, if someone else is there with you, it might help safety-wise but many youngsters undertake the challenge solo.”
 According to psychologist Dr C J John, focusing on a task for 24 hours straight is no joke, and the chances of one’s attention wavering are extremely high. “In all kinds of sports, there are people who might have done the riskiest of tasks, but that doesn’t mean everyone can do it or is prepared for it. But the youngsters, out of their adventurous spirit, take it up for glamour. They force their parents to buy them high-end bikes and race on Kerala roads. Even when they plan the route and speed, young minds can get tempted to speed up and lose control. That’s when it leads to trouble. Even in long distance marathons you have medical assistance, unlike in these challenges.”
 
 
 
 Meanwhile, bikers in Kerala, who have successfully completed the challenge, beg to differ. Thrissur-based Deepak Dev, a 25-year-old-biker, completed the third level of the challenge — 1500 miles in 36 hours — in February this year. According to him, the ‘blue whale-like allegations’ stem from a lack of awareness about the challenge, and it needs no mindless driving. 
 
 “I knew Mithun, as I have also been part of the same bikers’ groups as he was. We weren’t friends, but have communicated via these platforms. From what we have observed, it’s only been about two years since he started riding and this unfortunate incident happened due to a few mistakes on his part, which generally bikers who attempt this fete avoid,” Deepak says.
 
 He explains, “The US-based Iron Butt Association (IBA) has been conducting endurance rides since the 1960s. It has many categories of rides; 800 km in 12 hours (category named as Easy Riders), 1000 miles in 24 hours (Saddle Sour) which Mithun attempted, 1500 miles in 36 hours (Bun Burner) and 2500 km in 24 hours (Bun Burner Gold). Most people in India, including beginners, try Saddle Sour as it can be easily finished if you go at a speed of 60 km per hour. I had completed Bun Burner in February this year. All of these are legal in India. Bun Burner Gold is not legal here, as you need an average of 120 km speed to finish it and as per Indian rules, it is over speeding. If at all you attempt it, IBA won’t recognise it and even your membership will be cancelled.” In Kerala, around nine riders have so far successfully completed Bun Burner, he says.
 
 The riders take a lot of precautions before the challenge. “A week before the attempt, we start concentrating on our stamina by sticking to a good diet, avoiding mobile phones, sleeping two days at a stretch and the like. We start the ride early morning, and will have a hydration bag mixed with electrolyte powder in two litres of water. You keep sipping from it, without letting your throat go dry as there is no point in taking water then.” Apparently in the videos Mithun uploaded halfway through the trip, he is seen eating a burger. “Such food will tire you. We are supposed to stick to energy bars.” The riders say that Mithun had planned the speeds and stops with a map, but didn’t take the hallucination, exhaustion aspects into account.
 
 What about toilet breaks? “You will need only urinal, as you aren’t eating much for one week. You eat vegetables mostly. On the day before the ride you eat a bit of light food. In 36 hours of my ride, I didn’t go to toilet even once.”
 
 Family support is another aspect the riders stress on. “You can’t prepare at this level, otherwise. In Mithun’s case, we heard he didn’t have it and so, the preparation wasn’t proper.”
 
 Anand A, who is part of the stunt biking team  , had also accomplished the Bun Burner challenge recently. He says, “Every field now has many kinds of competitions, be it studies or sports. This challenge too is not different. For instance, it is not a race or something anyone forces you to do. You just take it up out of personal interest, that’s all. I did all the three levels of the challenge together as I did not feel exhausted after the first or second levels.” Anand also points out the support factor. “I could go only because I had my mom’s all-round support. For fuel alone, I had to spend around ` 8,000.”
 Thirty-eight year old mural artist Shyni Rajkumar from Thiruvananthapuram has been a rider for about 16 years, and she says she researched about the challenge for three years before attempting it. “I also ensured that my vehicle is in perfect condition before embarking on the ride. It’s always better that experienced, well-prepared bikers attempt it.” Deepak says, “When I did it, quite a few women riders had also completed Saddle Sour and they were all lauded as achievers in the media. However, it’s surprising that with one death, it has become a ‘suicide game.’ 
 
 
 
 Most Malayali bikers attempt the challenge outside Kerala, as the roads here are not suitable. Anand says, “We rode from Bengaluru via Pune and Hyderabad and back to the starting point.” Deepak says that Mithun apparently started from Palakkad and was planning to take a U-turn from Hubli. “In the video he posted, he says so and also lost his way in between. In one of the groups, some are even saying there was a robbery attempt on him. Nobody knows the truth.” Shyni agrees that on the single lane roads of Kerala, Iron Butt Challenge should not be tried. “I too started from Bengaluru and from my experience, the roads in certain other states give better support and safety for the challenge, than the ones here.”
 
 
