HYDERABAD: Residents in the city were taken by surprise after a sudden hailstorm lashed parts of Hyderabad on Saturday afternoon. Various localities also witnessed light rains and thunderstorm that brought much relief from the scorching heat. The maximum temperature in the city had touched 40 degree Celsius earlier in the day.

 
 The short spells of hailstorm were reported from areas such as Shaikpet, Manikonda, Hafeezpet among others. “After few minutes of light showers, we suddenly saw marble-sized hail falling from the sky. We were left stunned as we couldn’t believe that even during such high temperatures there could be a hailstorm,” said  , the corporator of Shaikpet.
 
 While the   ( ), Hyderabad, had predicted thunderstorm accompanied by gusty winds at isolated places in all districts of Telangana between March 31 and April 1, Saturday’s hailstorm caught people unaware. In some areas along Hyderabad’s western corridor, it lasted for a good 30 minutes or more.
 
 Within minutes of it starting, social media platforms were flooded with photographs and videos of the hailstorm, with some even being circulated on messaging apps. Groups were abuzz with users posting pictures and their accounts of having encountered the rare occurrence. “Haven't seen raining stones in the past 4years. #Hyderabad is witnessing today, a rain of stones, amid a very hot weather. This is very refreshening, climate changed! #Happy (sic),” tweeted  .
 
 While meteorologists could not confirm the hailstorm, they attributed it to the thunderstorm activity. “Due to high humidity and mercury level, thunderstorm activity occurs. The intensity was stronger in the north-east part of the city. Few areas such as Hi-tec City, Hafeezpet, Hakimpet, Kondapur witnessed gusty winds along with light rain and thunderstorm,” said YK Reddy, director of IMD, Hyderabad.
 
 According to the  , the humidity level was above 80 per cent in Musheerabad, West Maredpally, Malkajgiri, Virat Nagar, Kapra and Moulali.
 
 Private weather forecasting agencies predict that premonsoon showers are likely to hit the city over the next few days. The weather during the day is expected to be humid and warm. “These pre-monsoon activities are likely to occur due to various weather systems prevailing across the Telangana,” stated weather report issued by  , a private weather forecasting agency.
 
 
 Other parts of the state — such as Ibrahimpatnam mandal in Rangareddy district and   town — too witnessed heavy rains accompanied by lightening and hail. Crop was damaged at a few places due to unseasonal rains. The mercury which was hovering above 35 degrees suddenly dropped by the evening as dark clouds engulfed Siddipet, Vikarabad, Ibrahimpatnam, Medak and Sangareddy. At some places the heavy rain was accompanied by strong winds. Power supply was also disrupted.
 
