LUCKNOW: After conducting the state board exams under CCTV camera vigil, Uttar Pradesh government will now also have the evaluation exercise under the watch of close-circuit cameras.

 Scheduled to begin from March 17, the step is being taken to ensure examiners evaluate answer copies correctly, said an official.
 
 Results of Uttar Pradesh Secondary Education Board exams this year are expected early—in the third week of April—to facilitate further admission for students.
 
 Board secretary Neena Srivastava said, “Early exams will help in declaring early results. We are expediting the evaluation process. CCTVs at evaluation centres will ensure transparency. This year, the board will also make public the answer copies of 20 toppers each from class X and XII.”
 
 More than 5.5 crore class X and XII answer copies of   students will be evaluated from March 17 at 247 centres across the state. Close to 1.4 lakh examiners will be on evaluation duty.
 
 The BJP government in UP this year took a slew of measures to curb the menace of mass copying in UP Board exams. Equipping all examination rooms in all centres with CCTV cameras was the foremost step to check rampant cheating.
 
 Directives were also issued to dispatch answer sheets from centres in vehicles under CCTV surveillance. As a result, there were a record number of drop-outs this year—11.1 lakh for both class X and XII, as on March 8.
 
 With four days left for the class XII exams to get over, 1,139 students have been found using unfair means while FIR has been lodged against 135 centre superintendents and invigilators for abetting cheating.
 
 Early declaration of results, said officials, will also mean early classes for class XI. “Till now, results were declared in May-end or June. Session for class XI students began in July. This year, we are trying to start classes early so that there are more teaching days,” said an official.
 
 
 A total of 66.4 lakh candidates had registered for UP board examinations this year—36.6 lakh for class X while 29.8 for class XII.
 
 
