MANSA: Six protesting MLAs of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) were stopped from heading towards grain market where chief minister   launched the loan waiver scheme for  .

 The MLAs, led by leader of opposition in state assembly  , had gathered at Arvind Nagar locality in   and held protest against limited loan waiver. They wanted to march towards the grain market but detained near   and were taken to Joga police station to be let off after an hour.
 
 Apart from Khaira, AAP co-convener Aman Arora, Mansa MLA Nazar Singh Mansahia, Maur MLA Jagdev Singh Kamalu, Budhlada MLA Budh Ram and Bhadaur MLA Pirmal Singh Khalsa were detained.
 
 Similarly, farm organization BKU Ekta ugrahan also held protest against the “half-hearted relief”. Hundreds of farmers wanted to march towards grain market but were stopped near Jawaharke Bridge, where they staged a sit-in.
 
 Khaira said that the   before elections had promised complete loan waiver but had limited its scope to only small and marginal farmers. “In addition, loan of only cooperative sector was being waived off. It is like cheating the farmers as the Congress got the votes in the name of loan waiver. AAP wants complete waiver as was promised. We were stopped from marching towards venue. We condemn the behavior of the state government,” he said.
 
 Mansa MLA Nazar Singh Mansahia said that the Congress had not kept its word and they would continue protesting till the state government fulfilled its promise.
 
 BKU   district president Ram Singh Bhainibagha said that state government was befooling farmers in the name of loan waiver as names of large number of marginal farmers had been deleted from the lists of beneficiaries in several villages. “Deserving farmers have failed to get their names on the lists whereas the farmers with more landholding than 2.5 acre, who are close to the Congress leaders have got benefit of waiver,” he added.
 
 Mansa SSP Parambir Singh Parmar said that the AAP MLAs and Farmers were stopped from heading towards grain market to maintain law and order situation. “AAP MLAs were detained only for some time for the same purpose and no case has been registered against anyone,” he added.
 
 
