JAIPUR: Amid the call for  ' on Tuesday, Rajasthan remained largely peaceful with no major incidents of violence or clash being reported. There was mixed response to   call in Jaipur, Sikar and Alwar whereas Aaspur Dungarpur district remained completely closed. 

 In Jaipur and Sikar, internet services were suspended in order to clamp down on rumours and prevent processions and rallies. Additional DGP (Law and Order) NRK Reddy said that Section 144 was imposed in different parts of the state, including Barmer, Jaitran, Siwana, Alwar, Ahor, Sanchore, Gangapur city and Hinduan in   district.
 
 In Jaipur, 16 people were detained till late evening, said city police commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal. Some miscreants smashed glasses of a bus in Kumbha Marg. "City was peaceful, we detained 16 people. We assessed the situation and told internet service providing companies at 5.30 pm to restore internet. No untoward incident was reported in the city," Agarwal told TOI. 
 
 Main markets of the Pink City, including Jayanti Market, Chaura Rasta, Tripolia market remained closed till 3 pm. All majors malls remained shut till evening.
 
 In Baran district too, a suspect was detained for creating ruckus on Tuesday morning, " Situation was peaceful throughout the day," said Baran SP Dusht Daman Singh. In Dausa district, local business associations, and trader's unions had sent a letter supporting for a peaceful bandh on Monday. District SP Chuna Ram Jat said that the city was entirely peaceful.
 
 "No major incidents of violence or clash were reported in Rajasthan. People voluntary closed their establishments, but we had strictly warned against any kind of rallies or processions," NRK Reddy told TOI.
 
 Except for the beefed up security, and policemen seen at every nook and corner of the city, there was no other visible effect of Bandh in Udaipur city and surrounding areas on Tuesday. However, in Aaspur of Dungarpur district, the streets wore a deserted look and markets remain closed as the Rajput community supported the bandh call and kept their establishments shut.
 
 In Sikar district, traders in Ajeetgarh and Shree Madhopur, closed their shops in the morning to support the bandh.As many as 30 companies of central paramilitary forces have been camping in the city. Flag marches were conducted at different areas of Rajasthan on Monday night ahead of calls for Bharat Bandh. The Rajasthan armed constabulary (RAC) was also positioned in areas which saw violent incidents on April 2 during the SC/ST Bharat Bandh.
 
 The police are in toes ahead of Amberkar Jayanti on April 14, the sources told TOI that forces will remain in state for the while. "If there had been some untoward incidents on Tuesday, then we would have seen its repercussions on April 14. But we are sure that peace will remain in the state," an official said.
 
 
