BHOPAL: Two villages in MP, 50km apart, are united in grief as they mourn their CRPF bravehearts who died in the Maoist IED blast in Chhattisgarh.

 ASI Ramkishan Singh Tomar of Tarsama village in Morena and constable Jitendra Singh Kushwaha of Bhind’s   village died in the Maoist attack. Kushwaha leaves behind two children too young to understand what has happened, and no one has the heart to tell Tomar’s mother that he won’t be coming home.
 
  and Morena have a tradition of sending youths to the Army and paramilitary forces.
 
 Kushwaha’s elder brother Surendra said, “It was only day before yesterday that I bid farewell to him. He had come home on vacation. I wish we’d held him back, but who knew this would happen?” The family came to know about his death around 3.30pm. “We are shattered. Soldiers are dying but no one seems bothered,” he said.
 
 Kushwaha, 34, is survived by his wife and two children, aged 3 and 4 years. “His elder daughter started going to school this year only,” Surendra said. Fighting back tears, he said, “Jitendra was married seven years ago. What will I tell his children?”
 
 Kushwaha’s father Ramveer Singh is a retired state government employee, while two other brothers, including Surendra, are teachers at a local school. “We do not know what to do and what to say. Jitendra’s wife is beside herself with grief,” Surendra said.
 
 In Tarsama, a group of villagers has gathered around a small house since afternoon, as soon as news channels started flashing Tomar’s name among the martyrs.
 
 Tomar’s elderly mother and three brothers — Ganesh, Ramesh and   — live in the village and are involved in farming. A fourth brother, Naresh, is an Armyman. He is survived by his wife   and two children  , 20, and Vinay, 17, who live in DD Nagar of Gwalior, about 40km from Morena. Till late in the evening, his elderly mother had not been told about his death, villagers said.
 
 One of his cousins, Avinash Tomar, said, “Ramkishan last visited the village during Holi. He left after festivities and joined duty on March 11. He had a great time here and promised to return soon,” he said, even as his family members and neighbours made plans for the officer’s funeral.
 
 
