CHENNAI: At a time when the city corporation is set to revamp lighting on streets in the extended zones with LED lamps, students from Indian Institute of Technology Madras (IIT-M) have come with a solution that they say can reduce power consumption. They have developed an IoT (Internet of Things) sensor-based low-cost   that can cut down   by half simply by synchronised dimming of lights after dark when not required. The device also lets electricians keep track of faults from a remote location. 

 The team won an award at the Carbon Zero Challenge competition on Friday organised by IIT-M, Industrial Waste Management Association, US Consulate, Chennai, and  , a Virtusa company.
 
 Sushant Wadavkar, one of the four team members, said Chennai city daily used more than 27MW of power, which is around 20% of the total energy, on streetlights. This works to nearly 233 tonnes of CO2 getting released into the atmosphere every day. Globally the consumption is at 18% to 38% by street lighting. “There is a need to decrease the energy consumption and this is possible, as people won’t be using the streetlights for all the 12 hours and hence it need not be at maximum brightness at all times,” he said.
 
 This simple thought was turned into a technology that can be used in the existing LED streetlights to cut down power usage. When used with street lamps, the device can dim or brighten the light according to the presence of a pedestrian or a vehicle on the road. Wadavkar said the device or module has three main features – sensors to detect the presence of a pedestrian or a vehicle, a control unit that lets the light send signals to each other to synchronise its lighting and an LED driver that takes instruction from the control unit on the amount of power to be supplied to the LED panel to either increase or decrease the brightness of the light.
 
 While dimming of streetlights is already followed in a few countries, the   students said they have added a few other features like the ability to keep track of faults in the lights and synchronise the lighting that makes their device different. “Our module keeps sending data to a cloud server which helps keep track of any fault that may occur in the lights. This will reduce the time spent by an electrician on maintenance and repair, as the data will let them identify the exact problem,” he explained. “Our device is also made of basic components that any electrician can repair. Because of the simple components, the device is also four times cheaper than those that are available.” The students have tested the device on   campus and have received a provisional patent. They are planning to approach the city corporation soon.
 
 
