JAIPUR: The   will check if the   which were transferred to   for its operations have started producing results by improving facilities for treatment for the patients. 

 Jaipur’s Kanwatia Hospital, Jaipuria Hospital, Bani Park Satellite Hospital, Sethi Colony Satellite Hospital were allocated to the medical colleges two years ago along with various other hospitals in different districts where government has its own medical colleges. 
 
 The state government transferred the district hospitals and satellite hospitals to medical colleges to decongest hospitals which are already attached to medical colleges such as SMS Hospital attached to SMS Medical College. 
 
 “The aim was to provide improved healthcare facilities in these hospitals. Under this, the medical colleges have deployed their doctors in these hospitals like we have doctors from Sawai Man Singh Medical College now giving services in hospitals like Kanwatia, government-run Bani Park Hospital and Sethi Colony Hospital,” he said. 
 
 For better treatment to patients, there were 20 district hospitals and satellite hospitals, which were not under any medical colleges and they were independent hospitals under health department were transferred to government-run medical colleges in Jaipur, Ajmer, Kota, Jodhpur, Bikaner and Udaipur two years ago. 
 
 Now, health department has sought information on how much progress these hospitals have made in the past two years. “We have sought the details of patients getting registered before and after going in the fold of medical colleges. Also, we have asked them to send details of indoor patients, if they have increased in numbers,” said a senior health department official. 
 
  “We have asked them to send details of doctors from medical colleges deployed in these satellite and district hospitals. Also, they have been asked to send average number of surgeries, major and minor, being conducted in the hospital every month, before and after its transfer to government-run medical college,” the official said. 
 
 
