MUMBAI: With   procured from two foreign companies helping   ensure   in some areas during  , the civic body has now decided to make similar mixtures at its own plant to reduce cost. BMC aims to procure the ingredients from the two companies and make the mixture here.

 However, to achieve any result, BMC will have to first upgrade its  , wherein materials to fill potholes are prepared. The civic body is likely to allocate Rs 4 crore for the plant’s upgrade in the   to be tabled before the BMC standing committee on February 2.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 A senior BMC official said, “Last year, when we procured the two mixtures it turned out to be very beneficial. So, this year we plan to only bring in the patented ingredients from these two companies and make the mixture in our own plant. For that, we need to upgrade our asphalt plant.” Initially, BMC plans to make 40 tonnes of this pothole-filling mix per day. 
 
 For producing the mixture locally, BMC may end up spending only Rs 28 per kg, compared to Rs 130 per kg which it had paid to procure these mixes from abroad.
 
 In June last year, BMC spent Rs 70 lakh to procure 38 tonnes of pothole-filling mixture from Austria and Israel. This was used on roads having craters even when it was raining. The locally produced mixture does not sustain during rains and cannot be used when its pouring. 
 
 Officials said the overall BMC budget may see a slight increase from Rs 25,000 crore last year. The budget for the controversial roads department may also see a rise as compared to Rs 1078 crore last year. A BMC official said, “The budget for roads department would be around Rs 1,100 crore. Among the projects that may find a mention in the budget are improvements of LBS Road and beautification of Saat Rasta junction.”
 
 The BMC has 2,000km of road length under its jurisdiction, of which 753km has already been converted into cement concrete (CC) . It is likely to further propose converting more roads into CC in the budget. 
 
 Big-ticket projects like Coastal Road and the Goregaon Mulund Link Road (GMLR) may also get more funds in the budget.
 
