RANCHI: Tejashwi Yadav arrived in Ranchi on Sunday to meet his father and   chief   at   after a span of 19 days. The 28-year-old is expected to visit his father on Monday morning. 

 Sources in the party said Tejashwi is expected to accompany his father to the special   court for the latter's appearances in hearings of two fodder scams.
 
 The cricketer-turned politician was by his father's side on December 23 when Lalu was convicted in one out of the four cases of multi-crore fodder scam. However, Lalu was all by himself on January 6 when he was sentenced to 3.5 years of imprisonment in the case involving fraudulent withdrawal of Rs 89.27 lakh from Deoghar treasury in the 1990s. 
 
 "Lalu ji will feel better when he sees his son on Monday morning. The two are likely to discuss the legal steps to be taken in the coming days," a RJD leader said, on condition of anonymity. Tejashwi, who checked into a city hotel instead of the state guest house, remained unavailable for comments despite several attempts to contact him.
 
 As per the jail manual, Lalu is allowed to have three visitors in a week. Last week, Lalu had requested special CBI judge Shivpal Singh to relax the norm but in vain.
 
 The RJD leader has been behind bars since December 23. Over the past weeks, the former   chief minister has complained of feeling cold in his cell and being treated as a common prisoner despite being a politician. The state home ministry also turned down the RJD leadership's request of allowing Lalu to have meals from outside.
 
 Meanwhile, on Sunday morning, several RJD supporters arrived at the prison gate with fruits, curd, beaten rice and jaggery. The supporters claimed the items were a 'gift' to their party leader on the eve of Makar Sankranti. "Lalu ji is fond of dahi-chura. But he will not get them in jail this year. So we decided to bring these for him," Mohammad Firoz, a RJD supporter, said outside the jail. Sources in the jail said Lalu was served the delicacy in the morning.
 
 
