He entered the Bigg Boss   house in the most nondescript manner, but   has now become a household name that even landed him the second position eventually. His antics and acts were lauded by all. And this salesman has now won so much acclaim that he’s shuttling between studios, giving interviews as he enjoy’s his new celebrity life. 
We managed to get him right after he finished shooting for the popular  . “It feels surreal that everyone recognizes me. I never expected to become this popular. I entered the house hoping to stay for around two weeks and enjoy my time there. Not even in my wildest dreams did I expect to be runner-up and stay until the last moment on the show,” confesses Diwakar. 
 He says that   has been a defining moment in his life and that he is going to chart out his life carefully now. “I’m enjoying the attention. I know the media has had a great role to play too, given how they encouraged me when I was locked up inside. From just an average guy, I am referred to as a celebrity now. I plan to have a career in acting next. I won’t decide anything hastily. I want to launch myself in a lead role itself and there is work going on, as far as that is concerned,” says Diwakar.
 Recalling the best moments on the show, Diwakar says, “I think that the most memorable time was when   entered the house. It was unexpected and we enjoyed the time. I also recall the time spent during the kitchen task, when I fed everyone, it is a very special memory for me. I plan to keep in touch with all the other 17 inmates. Of course, Chandan has been my dearest friend on the show. We haven’t been able to talk much, as both of us are busy with different interviews and shows, but he will continue to remain a good friend outside the house.”
 One common grouse of many inmates is that being in the Bigg Boss house allows them rationed food, which is exhausting. “Yes, I agree that there is very little food given in the house. But it isn’t bad. We are busy with tasks and those delay the time we eat. That can also be exhausting. But these aren’t big hurdles. The show has been a great experience and I am glad I got to live it,” he signs off.
 
 
 
 Diwakar acknowledges that troll and meme pages played a significant role in his popularity. Quiz him about the film still that one of them picked up that 
 featured him and he replies, “I don’t know how they got hold of that. I had accompanied a friend to a film set, where he was to do a small role. The team there said that they needed more faces for a particular scene and asked me to join in. Honestly, I don’t even recall which film that is,” he laughs.
 
 
