Breaking away from its 21-year-old tradition of awarding city monuments to highlight the priceless heritage of the state, the Hyderabad chapter of Indian National Trust for Cultural Heritage (INTACH), this year bestowed honours on over 40 Hyderabadis for their contribution to protect the heritage structures to mark the World Heritage Day celebrations held at Salar Jung Museum on Wednesday.
“We decided not to have any heritage awards this year, as the existing monuments, open spaces and rock formations are supposed to be maintained by the government, so we’d rather cherish the work of those
 individuals who have actually put in efforts to save our rich heritage,” said historian and INTACH co-convener, Sajjad Shahid. 
 
 Among those who were honoured included MA   and   for their efforts to protect the Spanish Mosque in Begumpet and the Osmania University Library, respectively. The trustees of Chenoy Fire Temple on Tilak Road, Balapur Dargah, and Sri Sita Ramachandra Swamy Temple at Ammapalli, were also felicitated for their exemplary and tireless conservation efforts on the occasion.
 
 Describing the identification process, INTACH coordinator, Anuradha Reddy said that the entire process was initiated three months back. “Initially, we had shortlisted over 100 individuals, but later zeroed in on 50 winners, and many of them came to receive the awards today.” “Hyderabad has heritage in its heart, and each awardee worked really hard to conserve their respective heritage buildings,” added Anuradha. Hailing it as a major step towards conservation,  , who has received laurels for his tireless effort to preserve the Ibrahim Palace in Secunderabad said, “It is very significant that our conservation efforts have been recognised by the conservation body. It is not that people do not want to conserve the heritage they have grown up with, but the monetary aspect is also very crucial. To maintain the Ibrahim Palace in its original form, we have to find architects who can do the same kind of work on limestone. Thankfully we were in a position to do so, but not everyone can do it, and that’s where government should step in.”
 
