MUMBAI: For the first time since women began petitioning the courts in the country for   beyond the permissible  , a 37-year-old woman was allowed to undergo the procedure in a private hospital.

 So far, courts have directed pregnant women to undergo termination at   only.  , who guided most of these couples through the  , said at least 30 women have moved the courts for medical terminations beyond the deadline in the last couple of years.
 
 
  
 On Friday, a 37-year-old woman, who was 27 weeks pregnant, underwent medical termination at Cloudnine Hospital, Malad. “As we were guided by Dr Datar through our dark moments, we felt better and safer if he performed the termination,” said the woman's husband. 
 
 The couple realised there was a problem after an ultrasound scan in the 24th week showed the baby had microcephaly or smaller than normal head. “As our first-born daughter has severe medical issues, we immediately got worried about the second one too,” said the husband. Their elder daughter too has microcephaly, poor vision and suffers four to five seizures a day. “She can't recognise either of us to date,” he said.
 
 The couple was directed to Dr Datar, who advised a fetal MRI before taking any decision. “The scan showed that most parts of the brain were not developed. The brain matter was smooth instead of having wave-like formations,” said Dr Datar. The couple then moved the high court on May 14 and the matter came up for hearing on May 21. The parents were absolutely clear that they did not wish the baby to suffer if born alive. “As there are no Indian guidelines, we followed international guidelines,'' said Dr Datar
 
 Dr Datar said the presented many legal and ethical problems. “There are no Indian guidelines for performing a medical termination in 27 weeks, so we look at World Health Organisation and British Royal College guidelines,'' he said.
 
 As there was a high likelihood of a 27-week gestation baby to be born alive, the doctors followed the international guidelines of first performing foeticide by injecting a medicine into the foetus's heart. Thereafter, an operation was performed complete the termination. “The draft of the revised Indian Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act in 2014 mentioned that medical termination beyond 20 weeks would only be allowed for foetus with certain conditions, but this case highlights that there are anomalies which are syndromic and can't be classified in a list. They can be very serious,'' said Dr Datar.
 
 
