Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) recently-started sterilization drive for stray dogs might again become an exercise in futility. Animal activists have lodged a complaint with police, alleging that a stray dog died at the Animal Birth Control (ABC) centre due to negligence.

 On Monday, activist Reena Singh lodged a complaint with Gittikhadan police, demanding action against the animal deaths at the ABC centre set-up at the animal shelter run by NGO Nagpur SPCA at Friends Colony. Cops assured to look into the matter.
 
 According to the activist, around 300 stray dogs have been operated at the centre in over a month out of which operations of 250 dogs have been failed. “In many cases, the stitches opened up after the operations. When I visited the centre, I was shocked to see a dead dog,” said Singh.
 
 She further alleged that breaching the ABC (Dogs) Amendment Rules, 2010, an “untrained” doctor was performing the operations. “NMC did not constitute the mandatory ABC monitoring committee. No post-operative care of dogs is being taken,” she added.
 
 The activist has demanded that operations should be immediately stopped at the centre. “The matter should be investigated and strict action should be taken against the NGO members and doctors. The NGO should be blacklisted,” she said.
 
 NMC officials said that the operations have been stopped temporarily. “We have conducted a post-mortem of the dog and depending on the report, we will take appropriate action against the NGO,” they said. 
 
 Around two weeks back, TOI reported that the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) had slammed the same NGO for putting environment and human health in danger by violating Bio-medical Waste Management Rules, 2016 at the centre. Following a complaint filed by activist Ankita Shah regarding generation of large quantity of bio-medical waste at the shelter without authorization, a team of board officials had inspected the shelter and found that bio-medical waste was not stored in a scientific manner. 
 
 
