PATNA: Altogether 145 candidates remained in the fray for 28 posts in   (PUSU) after the last date of withdrawal of candidature on Saturday. The   election is scheduled for February 17.

 There are 15 contestants for the post of president. They are Priyanshu Priyadarshi, Md Sufiyan, Mukesh Dayal, Chandani, Radheshyam Mishra, Sangeeta Sharma, Mitu Kumari, Rahul Roy, Vivek Kumar, Gautam Kumar, Hrishav Kumar, Kumari Shashibala, Mukesh Kumar, Divyanshu Bhardwaj and Kunal.
 
 Fourteen students are contesting for the vice-president’s post. They are Manohar Kumar, Ankit Kumar, Prashant Raj, Manish Kumar, Ranjan Kumar, Yoshita Patwardhan, Vidya Kumari, Pratyush Shubham, Khusboo Kumari, Sadab Alam, Shubham Kumar, Abhishek Kumar Singh, Ravi Prakash and  . 
 
 As per the final list, 12 candidates — Ashutosh Kumar, Bipin Kumar, Md Yashir Javed, Sudhanshu Bhushan Jha, Manish Kumar, Mukesh Kumar Yadav, Vishal Kumar, Swan Kumar, Ambuj Kumar, Ahmad Hussain Arzoo, Bhaskar Kumar and Rishav Raj — are in the fray for general secretary. 
 
 Krishna Murari, Rajiv Ranjan, Neera Kumari, Md Azad, Sanjeet Kumar, Mrityunjay Kumar, Moti Lal Ray, Nandita Bharti, Ajit Kumar and Santosh Kumar will lock horns for the post of joint secretary while Amrit Kumar Deepak, Juhi Perween, Anant Kumar, Ashish Kumar, Khushi Kumari, Nivedita Shaekhar, Ashish Kumar, Devesh Madhav, Ashish Kumar, Md Danish Anwar, Surabhi Suman and Nitish Kumar are vying for PUSU treasurer. 
 
 Moreover, 23 executive council members will be elected from the 82 boys and girls in the fray.
 
 PU election committee is also contemplating to organize an open house debate for all the candidates contesting for the post of president. Chief election officer P K Poddar said the date and venue of the debate would be announced shortly.
 
 Meanwhile, poll fever gripped Patna University (PU) campus which was reverberating with purposeful footfalls, high-pitched sloganeering and counter-sloganeering.
 
 The electioneering activities on Saturday included distribution of handwritten pamphlets and candidates’ visit to different colleges and hostels for meeting their voters and explaining their election manifestos. 
 
 The student wings of different political parties, including the ruling JD(U) and  , have fielded their candidates. Leaders of all student organizations, namely, Chhatra JD(U),  , NSUI, All India Students’ Federation (AISF), All India Students’ Association, Chhatra Lok Janshakti Party, Chhatra RJD, All India Democratic Students’ Organisation and All Bihar Students’ Association, are campaigning vigorously for their candidates. Some of these outfits are also using vehicles in campaigning despite ban as per the election code of conduct.
 
 
