AHMEDABAD: Joint commissioner of police,  ,   told the media on Sunday that   had misbehaved with cops while he was being detained near Saraspur. Bhatt said that the police will send a detailed report to the assembly speaker with evidence such as   and news reports. The self-immolation of a Dalit activist, Bhanu Vankar, on the premises of Patan collector’s office earlier in the week had triggered widespread protests across the state. Mevani had called for a bandh in Ahmedabad on Sunday and had urged people to gather around Dr Ambedkar’s statue at Sarangpur Circle.

 Before Mevani could reach the site of the agitation, he was detained by the police. The detention sparked off sporadic violence in the city. A bike and a car were torched in Juva Vadaj. This is the second time that Bhatt has found himself at the centre of media attention. Earlier, Praveen Togadia — the international working president of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad — had called the crime branch a “conspiracy branch”. The crime branch had been probing the curious case of Togadia’s disappearance when Rajasthan police was camping in Ahmedabad with a warrant against him. Togadia was later found unconscious at Chandramani hospital in Shahibaug.
 
 As for Mevani, Bhatt denied the allegation of rude police behaviour towards an elected representative. Bhatt said other Dalit activists had assured him of peaceful protests. “We had to detain Mevani along with his close aides in public interest and will release him and others at an appropriate time,” Bhatt said. Eventually, Mevani and several others were released on Sunday night. Bhatt said: “In all, 148 Dalit agitators were detained from different areas of the city.” While 70 protesters were detained from Shahibaug, CTM Crossroads, Amraiwadi, and Naroda; 78 were detained from Vadaj and Sarangpur.
 
 Bhatt said that while Mevani misbehaved, police kept their cool and treated him with respect. Bhatt warned of strict action against agitators who resorted to violence and vandalism.
 
 
