GAYA: More than 3700 teaching and non-teaching employees of Magadh University’s postgraduate departments, varsity headquarters, 36 old constituent colleges, four government-funded minority colleges and eight colleges converted into constituent units in the fourth phase have not been paid their salary for the last four months. The last pay packet received by the employees was for September' 2017.

 The sufferers include 1,412 teachers and 2,317 non-teaching employees. The employees get salary from grant sanctioned by the state government. The university awaits salary grant for the period September 2017 to January 2018. According to the president of Federation of University Teachers’ Association Kanhaiya Bahadur, “The state government is to be blamed for the pitiable condition of university finance and non-payment of salary.” 
 
 If the government cannot pay salary to the employees when nearly 60% of the teaching posts and about 30% of non-teaching posts are vacant, one can very well imagine a situation in which all posts are filled up. As per government records, as against 3,093 sanctioned post of teachers in  , the number of working teachers was only 1,412. The remaining 1,681 post of teachers are vacant.
 
 Similarly, in case of other employees, the total number of sanctioned post is 3,186 (excluding grade III lab personnel). The number of working non-teachers is 2,317, while 869 posts are vacant. A few years back, the government took a decision to outsource non-teaching positions and outsourcing process is underway.
 
 As per available statistics, the university needs Rs 23.49 crore per month for salary payment. Another Rs 18.22 crore per month are required for pensioners including family pensioners. Delay in the payment of post-retirement claims including pension and gratuity is the main cause of litigation. There are about 400 writ petitions pending in the Patna high court. The number of contempt petitions too, is estimated to be about 100.
 
 According to the vice-chancellor, Prof Qamar Ahsan, “Pension payment was university's top priority. As per the university syndicate resolution, the university will arrive at some arrangement with the Central Bank of India, the university's principal banker, to ensure regular pension payment even in case of delay in the receipt of government grant.”
 
 Asked about the salary payment, the VC said the government has released grant for October and November 2017 and payment will be made as soon as the money is received by the university.
 
 
