Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is thinking about linking the registration of on-site construction workers to building permissions.

 Private developers, before seeking building permissions, will need to ensure that all the workers on his site are registered with the labour department. The proof of registration will be mandatory to get permission for construction. Even those working on civic projects will need this certificate. A proposal to this effect has been tabled before the standing committee and is expected to be discussed on Tuesday.
 
 The proposal says the state government, in 2009, had issued a circular establishing a welfare board for construction workers. The board was given 1% of the revenue generated from building permissions as cess, and at present, a corpus of around Rs 12,000 crore is available with it. This money is expected to be used for the welfare of labourers who are registered with the labour commissioner’s office. But there has hardly been any response in terms of worker registration. PMC should make it mandatory for contractors of civic projects to employ only registered labourers and include this condition in the contracts. The details of the registration should be furnished with tenders. In the case of private builders, building permissions should only be allotted after labour registration certificates are furnished.
 
 “Many labourers have died while working on construction sites. They could not benefit from the welfare scheme because they were not registered. Worker registration should be made mandatory for the developers and civic departments,” said Sidhardha Dhende, Pune’s deputy mayor.
 
 PMC officials said the civic body allots 4,000-4,500 building permission each year generating revenue of Rs 500-Rs 700 crore.
 
 “The initiative is good. Registration should be done for workers’ benefit. However, the process should be designed in such a way that it does not affect their job prospects,” said Nitin Pawar, an activist working for construction labourers.
 
 “We will wait for the standing committee’s decision. Steps on the adding such a condition in the tenders will be taken in due course of time, based on the committee’s decision,” said a senior official of PMC.
 
 
