AJMER: 23 candidates will contest the  , so two units of   will be placed at every polling booth in the constituency. 

 This is the first time when so many candidates are contesting from this constituency. Considering the large number of independent candidates,   will be under stress and BJP is expected to get an edge in the election.
 
 On Monday, the last day of withdrawing nominations, just three candidates quit from the bypoll. The remaining 23 candidates were later allotted symbols by the election office. A total of 30 candidates, including two Congress and BJP candidates, filed nomination for Ajmer Lok Sabha bypolls. Four of these nominations were later cancelled, while three candidates withdrew nominations on Monday.
 
 According to district election officer and district collector Gaurav Goyal, only 16 candidates can be allotted symbols in one EVM machine. Since 24 buttons, including one button for NOTA, will be required for  , two EVMs will be needed at every booth. Goyal added that along with the EVM machines, one VVPAT and one central process machine will be kept at all polling centres.
 
 He added that symbols have been distributed to candidates and from Monday code of conduct for candidates was imposed. They have to give the account of their expenditure every day to the election officer. He added that vigilance has been stepped up and observers will keep a watch over expenditure of candidates.
 
 Sources said that Congress tried to persuade some independent candidates to withdraw nominations, but failed. Most of the independent candidates are from castes that generally support Congress and six independents are Muslims. In 2013 assembly elections, independent candidate Babulal Sangaria got around 20,000 votes of Dalits in Kekri constituency which led to defeat of Congress candidate Raghu Sharma.
 
 One of the independent candidates Shiv Bhagwan registered a complaint with police that he got threat on his mobile to withdraw his nomination. Police said that they are investigating the matter.
 
 “Six candidates are Muslims and two are Gujjars, therefore, it will damage Congress and not the BJP,” claimed a BJP source.
 
 BJP is now propagating that if every independent candidate is able to get 5,000 votes, it will help the BJP.
 
 Experts said the contest was directly between Congress and BJP, so the independents will play the role of damaging the prospects of party candidates.
 
 
