AHMEDABAD: The city crime branch, which is investigating a case of alleged misappropriation of funds involving   and her husband  , on Monday told a local court that literature produced by them was “lethal to national unity”.

  The submission was made in connection with the plea for anticipatory bail filed by Setalvad and Anand. The crime branch had registered a case on a complaint accusing Setalvad and Anand of “fraudulently” securing grants of Rs 1.4 crore from the Union government through their NGO Sabrang Trust between 2008 and 2013.
 
 The crime branch affidavit, submitted by deputy commissioner of police  , says: “The accused have instilled hatred, discord, animosity and enmity through dissemination of literature published under the Khoj Project (a project run by the NGO for which grants were given by the ministry of human resource development).” Jhala goes on to say: “Besides, allegations and statements were made on the Indian Republic, the Constitution and judiciary. This is lethal for national unity.”
 
 The complainant in the case of alleged misappropriation is a former close associate of Setalvad, Raees Khan Pathan. 
 
 He has said that the grants meant for educational projects were misused and materials were printed and distributed that could cause communal disharmony. 
 
 Police had taken into account the report from a panel of the human resource development ministry, which said that a prima facie case could be made out against Setalvad under sections 153A and 153B of the Indian Penal Code for promoting enmity on the grounds of religion and for making imputations and assertions that were prejudicial to national integration.
 
 Special public prosecutor   opposed Setalvad’s bail plea stating that a large amount from the ministry’s funding — given under the National Policy on Education — was used between 2008 and 2014 on the Khoj Project and the Peace Building and Conflict Resolution project of the Sabrang Trust in Maharashtra and Gujarat. Setalvad has refuted the charges and submitted that the complaint filed against her and Anand was politically motivated. She has contended that she should be granted protection by the court. Additional sessions judge   will pronounce the order on the plea on May 23.
 
 
