HYDERABAD: The Centre will soon pass a legislation in Parliament to set up a national river water disputes tribunal merging all existing tribunals. The Bill related to this will be presented in the House during the budget session, said Union minister of state for water resources, Arjun Ram Meghwal, during a meeting of irrigation ministers of southern states here on Tuesday. 

 Speaking to the media, the minister also announced that the Centre will soon establish the   and   as directed by the   in its recent judgment.
 
 "Various tribunals at the state level and for each river are resulting in unnecessary delays and loss of time and money. The Prime Minister is very specific about finding a resolution to river disputes. States are being requested to work on settling their disputes out of court and in tribunals so that the execution of water projects can be expedited," said the Union minister, asking all states to prepare a road map to end water disputes. 
 
 The minister also announced that the resolution at the end of the southern region irrigation ministers' meet will be called 'Hyderabad Declaration'. 
 
 During the meeting, Kerala water resources minister   demanded minimum entitlement of water from the Manacadavu weir and review of water sharing between Tamil Nadu and Kerala from the Sholayar dam and Manacadavu.
 
 Tamil Nadu requested Karnataka to release 15 TMCft water to save standing crops. It also requested the Union minister to restrain Karnataka from unilaterally executing lift irrigation schemes and constructing reservoirs and anicuts across   and its tributaries without the concurrence of the other co-basin states. 
 
 Tamil Nadu also requested the Centre to resolve pending issues related to Chennai water supply scheme.
 
 Both Karnataka and Telangana have demanded additional share in Krishna waters after Andhra Pradesh diverted Godavari water through the Pattiseema project. 
 
 Telangana also demanded speedy resolution of the Rajolibanda Diversion Scheme dispute and asked the Union minister to prevail upon AP to agree for an inter-state meeting. 
 
 
