Gandhinagar: Despite repeated instructions from the government of India to from a state wetlands authority, to preserve ecologically important wetlands in the state, the Gujarat government has ignored them. It had formed a state wetlands authority in May 2017, but that remains on paper only, as the body has not started working. 

 Not a single meeting of the high-powered committee of the authority, which is chaired by the state forests and environment minister, Ganpat Vasava, has been held. The authority is mandated with implementing The Wetlands(Conservation and Management) Rules 2016 and 2010, but nothing has progressed since the body was formed last May.
 
 The authority comprises of the forests and environment minister and has the MoS (forests and environment), the chief secretary, additional chief secretary (ACS forests and environment), secretaries of other key departments, Isro and other government and private experts. In more than six months, it has not met once to discuss priorities for wetlands conservation.
 
 G K Sinha, (principal chief conservator of forests - wildlife) said, “Due to the election code of conduct, the state wetland authorities has not met yet, but we expect it to meet shortly.”
 
 “There are 1,4000 wetlands in Gujarat that larger than 2.5 hectares. Our strategy is to prepare a detailed working plan for conservation of wetlands of national importance. We will then prepare a conservation plan for wetlands notified as sanctuaries and national parks and then prepare a monitoring and conservation working plan for all unprotected wetlands,” he added.
 
 The Government of India implemented the National Wetlands Conservation Programme (NWCP) in collaboration with the concerned state governments in 1985/86. The Government of India provides financial and technical assistance for conservation of wetlands across the country. 
 
 Financial assistance under NWCP is provided for two components i.e. a management action plan (MAP) and research projects. Under the scheme, 100% assistance is provided for conservation activities. Conservation and management of wetlands is primarily vested with the states/UTs. After identification of wetlands under the scheme, the state/UT is to submit a long-term comprehensive management action plan (MAP) for a period of 3-5 years, preferably 5, coinciding with the plan period. 
 
 State governments are advised to define objectives after considering factors responsible for degradation of wetlands. The MAP should also have short-term objectives to address immediate problems and immediate rectification measures. The Gujarat government is yet to prepare its MAP.
 
 
