HYDERABAD: There is no guarantee that even heavyweights in the   will get tickets in the 2018-19 Assembly polls in Telangana. Only candidates with good winning prospects — whether they are junior or senior — will find favour with the party high command this time, sources said.

 The   is getting an in-house survey done to identify the most likely winning horses in all the 119 Assembly and 17 parliamentary constituencies in Telangana. Congress president   has decided not to solely depend on the pradesh Congress committee and party seniors’ feedback, but to go by the survey reports to finalise the candidates.
 
 Both AICC and   will get surveys conducted by two different nationally-reputed independent agencies, and based on the findings, candidates with better winning prospects will be picked up to contest the elections.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 The move is aimed at taking on the K Chandrasekhar Rao-led ruling TRS which emerged victorious in 2014, despite the Congress staking claim to having granted the new state.
 
 The TPCC has already sought quotations from agencies to conduct the survey. The sample size is being finalised by senior leaders in consultation with the high command.
 
 Though sitting MLAs expressed confidence that the party would not deny them tickets whatever the surveys’ outcome is, sources in AICC said none of the candidates including seniors and veterans can take their seats for granted. The surveys will start in March.
 
 Sources said Rahul Gandhi is very particular about the surveys and wants to know well in advance the party’s position and winning prospects of candidates based on which the election strategy would be worked out. “After the elections in Gujarat, Rahul Gandhi has decided that surveys should be conducted to know top three candidates of the party from each constituency and who has the most chances of trouncing the opposition,” a source in AICC said.
 
 “Though the TPCC will be taken into confidence while finalising the candidates, the party leadership will not blindly go by what the TPCC says. It will have its own survey report to cross check the winning prospects of the candidates,” said asenior Congress leader.
 
 Unlike the past, the plan is to give party ticket to the winnable candidates in advance and not in the last minute, so that they get time to mobilise resources and work in the constituency.
 
 “There are several Assembly and   constituencies from where there is not much competition within the party. We have asked the candidates to start their election work in such constituencies. In the constituencies where there are more than two candidates aspiring to contest, surveys will help in picking the best,” said a senior Congress leader.
 
 
