Ludhiana: After a scuffle broke out between the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Congress party workers outside a polling booth located in BRS Nagar, with gunshots too being fired, both parties claimed that workers of the other party were involved in the firing. The parties are now leaving no stone unturned to rake up the issue, which is likely to throw up a challenge for the police.

 Meanwhile, Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu — who visited the firing spot immediately after the incident — has levelled several accusations against SAD workers, claiming that more than two shots were fired at moving vehicles, and passers-by as well. Bittu made several claims which contradict the police version.
 
 He said: “This incident has now proved that SAD and their associate, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) are habitual goons, as only 15 minutes had remained for the close of voting, and since they knew that the Congress was heading for a thumping victory, they tried to capture this booth by hiring goons, who attacked our workers with weapons and fired at them. As per my information, they fired 3-4 shots on our workers and their cars. When our workers tried to escape, more shots were fired, and one of the bullets even hit a car passing through the area. Several of our workers are injured, and 2-3 even suffered head injuries. One of them is in a serious condition, and admitted in DMCH (Dayanand Medical College and Hospital), though as of now, I do not know if anyone has sustained bullet injuries.”
 
 Launching an attack on SAD candidate Sukhminder Kaur Bhinda’s husband Bhupinder Bhinda, Bittu said: “Bhinda was trying to disturb the law and order situation here ever since the voting began, because he knew his wife was going to lose miserably. Therefore, in a well-planned conspiracy, he tried to capture booths just before polling ended, and roped in hundreds of goons with weapons and guns, and attacked our workers.”
 
 Refuting allegations of SAD that Congress was involved in the gunfire, and its workers were trying to capture the booth, Bittu said: “It is a totally baseless and false propaganda by them. Booth capturing was attempted by them with the motive of instilling fear among people.” When questioned whether or not the violence was a failure of the administration, that in spite of the guidelines issued about the deposit of weapons, they were not adhered to, he said: “It will only be clear after police investigation as to where from the weapons were brought, and whether they were legal or not.”
 
 
