CHANDIGARH: From a small 12x12 room that housed five family members to cornering glory in Belgrade,   boxer  's story is one that is a testament of human will crossing all hindrances.   brought laurels to the country by winning the gold medal in men's 49kg weight category at the prestigious 56th Belgrade International Boxing Championship.

 
 The 21-year-old was one of the three Indians, who won gold at the championship. The other two were Olympian Sumit Sangwan (in men's 91kg) and   (in women's 51kg).
 
 Himanshu defeated African champion   of Algeria by a unanimous 5-0 decision in the final. It was his first international tournament and he didn't show any nerves or jitters.
 
 "My mission was to get there and win gold, nothing else. I hit my opponent a four-punch combination in his face to seal the match," Himanshu told TOI.
 
 The youngster has battled abject poverty and tough conditions at his home on his way to the medal.
 
 "I stay in a 12x12 room along with my parents, grandfather and two young siblings. My father is a truck driver, mother works in different houses as a housemaid. My grandfather suffers from chronic illness. There have been days when I have had to go hungry. We are always at a struggle to get three meals a day," said Himanshu.
 
 But even during his trying circumstances, Himanshu never left his pair of boxing gloves. "During those times when everything looked bleak, I always looked at my boxing gloves and that gave me strength to keep going in life."
 
 He dedicated the win to his coaches and his mother. "My mother keeps the oil burning in our house. She works all day and has spent all her precious savings on me. I want to repay her in every way possible," reflected Himanshu.
 
 The formation of   (BFI) in 2016 gave Himanshu and several boxers like him a new lease of life. "Lack of funds was always a problem. I never got the required diet that is necessary at the top level. The   has rejuvenated my career. It has supported me with equipment and funds," said Himanshu.
 
 The Patiala lad possesses an attacking game. "Whenever I get inside the ring, I think of decimating my opponent and not giving him an iota of chance."
 
 He is presently sweating it out at the national boxing camp in Patiala, before departing for a 10-day camp in Ireland. "My aim now is to win a medal for the country at the Jakarta Asian Games," he concluded.
 
