On the second day of our   against driving on the wrong side of the road, here are two stretches in Gurugram that witness this violation most frequently. Clearly, poor urban planning has a big role to play in instigating commuters to violate traffic laws, but innate defiance of laws among people plays a big part in it becoming a habit among residents.

 
 
 
 Near Sikanderpur underpass is one of the city’s most infamous ‘wrong turn’ stretches. Vehicles coming from MG Road have to go all the way to Cyber City to avail an U-turn to go to Nathupur village, or take the route from the Neelkanth Hospital side, which is equally long. Instead, commuters take the short-cut by driving under the Mehrauli-Gurugram flyover, take a left turn in the wrong direction against the flow of traffic, to reach Nathupur, reducing travel by 4 km. During peak hours, the number of cars in this wrong direction is so high, it obstructs traffic coming from Cyber City and going towards Delhi via Mehrauli-Gurugram Road. According to locals and traffic police personnel, auto-rickshaws and commercial vehicles are the most frequent law-breakers on this stretch, which has emerged out of convenience and lack of planning for people living in Nathupur. 
 
  
  
 
 Geetanjali Kaur, an IT firm executive, said, “Driving against traffic down the wrong side on this stretch not only causes traffic jams, but also often leads to road rage and quarrels.” Senior police officials recognise the problem. They said they regularly fine commuters for breaking the law, but that doesn’t stop others from doing it. Experts said the reason why taking the wrong turn is so common on this stretch is convenience and lack of planning for Nathupur residents.
 
 
 
 
 Many regular commuters from Delhi and Sohna, using the expressway and Sohna road, on reaching Rajiv Chowk, drive on the wrong side to reach residential areas like Shivaji Nagar, Om Nagar and Khandsa. Instead of heading all the way to Old Railway Road, they take a left from Rajiv Chowk on the wrong side, then a right towards Shivaji Nagar and head for these areas, reducing travel by 4-6 km. The wrong turn is almost a necessity on this stretch, as Old Railway Road is perennially gridlocked, what with the number of public offices along it, and the traffic headed for Sadar Bazar also merging on this road here. But with the ‘wrong side’ drive is on the highway, it’s extremely susceptible to accidents.
 
 “I don’t want to travel another 4-5 km, or go towards Old Railway Road, which is always very crowded,” said Rampal, a resident of Om Nagar who admits to driving on the wrong side frequently. Authorities believe with the U-turn under Hero Honda flyover opened recently, it will encourage more people to take the U-turn, reducing the numbers of those who break the law.
 
 
