CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh international airport will be closing for operations till May 31 from Saturday. Residents of Chandigarh feel the authorities should have shifted the closure dates after summer vacations. Rajat Budhiraja, a resident of Panchkula, said, "We had planned to fly to Dubai for holidays, but the airport closure has dashed our hopes." 

  
 
 
  The   (AAI) on Friday informed the   and Haryana high court that it is ready to bear the cost of installation of advanced navigation aid (CAT-III) at the airport and installation work can be executed by the IAF through any agency. 
 
 
 
 
 At a time when a lot of parents were planning to fly to their favourite destinations with their children following their summer holidays, closure of the Chandigarh airport from May 12 to May 31 has left them high and dry.
 
 The Tricity residents said that the airport authorities should have kept summer vacation in mind before announcing the closure dates.
 
 “We had plans to fly to Dubai for holidays but airport closure has dashed our hopes. Boarding a flight from Delhi is inconvenient and costs more,” said Rajat Budhiraja, a resident of Panchkula.
 
 Similarly, Adarsh Singh of Chandigarh said that his family had planned to fly to Bangkok for holidays. “But now, we will have to go to Delhi first, which is inconvenient,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, showing their resentment, the airport authorities have said that they will face huge losses due to this closure. Earlier, the airport had remained closed from February 12 to 26 for repair works.
 
 With a monthly foot fall of 1.6 lakh passengers, the UT airport’s closure for another 20 days will make passengers opt for alternate travel options.
 
 Chandigarh International Airport Limited (CHIAL) CEO Sunil Dutt said, “The closure is likely to impact more than 1 lakh passengers. However, this closure will also help facilitate long-haul flights from Chandigarh to destinations like Europe, United States of America, Canada and the United Kingdom.”
 
 To cater to the passenger rush, the railways have already announced to attach an additional coach to Shatabdi Express. Not only this, the number of Volvo buses to Delhi from Chandigarh would also be increased.
 
 
