NEW DELHI: The controversy over the Supreme Court appears set for escalation, with political parties, including a ruling NDA ally, seeking discussion in Parliament on issues emanating from the public outburst of four senior-most judges of the apex court.

  MP Naresh Gujral has asked the government to allocate time to discuss the crisis in the apex court.
 
 Gujral told TOI that differences within the SC collegium can lead to difficulties like blocking the appointment of judges which can have serious consequences. “I asked the government to earmark time to discuss the issue in Parliament,” he said on Monday, reiterating his demand.
 
 As the two Houses opened for the budget session, Congress sought to up the ante by pressing for a debate on the judicial controversy.
 
 Also, the lead opposition party said the proposal for removal of Chief Justice of India Dipak Misra, as floated by CPM general secretary   last week, would have to be examined.
 
 When asked, deputy leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Anand Sharma told reporters, “Opposition leaders will deliberate on the issue. There are concerns about functioning of judiciary and Parliament is the right forum to take up the matter. But it (removal of CJI) is also a sensitive issue and that is why in-depth deliberations and examination of the matter is required before a final call can be taken. But surely, Parliament must discuss.”
 
 Sources said if the government does not schedule a discussion in the two Houses, Congress and opposition MPs would seize upon the “Motion of Thanks” to the President’s joint address to speak about judiciary.
 
 A Congress MP sounded the government and sought time for debate in the Rajya Sabha. However, the senior Union minister who was approached could not offer any assurance, responding that it was for the BJP leadership to approve any demand for debate relating to top judiciary in Parliament.
 
 Meanwhile, opposition parties have begun coordinating their stance to corner the government in Parliament.
 
 UPA chief   will convene a meeting of the joint opposition for brainstorming this week. The decision was taken in the deliberations hosted by NCP chief   on Monday evening, in which Congress, CPI, National Conference and expelled JD(U) leader Sharad Yadav participated. The talk revolved around “threat to the Constitution”, on which Pawar led a march in Mumbai on the Republic Day, apart from “price rise”.
 
 Pawar held a detailed discussion with Congress chief Rahul Gandhi in the Central Hall after the President’s joint address to Parliament.
 
 
