BANKA: Pradeep Kumar Hembrom, a resident of Maoist-dominated Hirantand village under Belhar block in Banka district and the first graduate from his village, had never thought that one day he would be selected in   (TCS) and would be working for the prestigious company. Not only Pradeep, his parents as well as his co-villagers had never dreamt of it.

 All this was made possible with the help of ‘Unnayan Banka’, a novel initiative of Banka DM Kundan Kumar in providing a platform to the deprived and underprivileged youths for their training and personality development and making them employable and this placement programme by TCS is a part of that initiative.
 
 Like Pradeep, Soma Kumari, Sonali Priya, Shashikant Marandi, Simran, Mukesh, Chandan and others who received support from the ‘Unnayan Banka’ got selected for the highly acclaimed organization TCS. Majority of the successful youths were registered with District Registration and Counselling Center (DRCC) at Banka and were picked up for training by Unnayan.
 
 Altogether 17 youths belonging to economically poor strata of society, for whom study and employment is the last thing in the priority list and survival is the primary objective, were selected by TCS after an exhausting 25-day ‘Special Employability Bridge Programme (SEBP)’, organized at the initiative of Banka district administration. 
 
 “The youths were selected by the company on January 8. Depending on their skills, these youths will be engaged in the company for different kind of work,” said the DM. The DM said that talented youths coming from the underprivileged section of society and registered under Kushal Yuva Programme, Student Credit Card and other schemes at DRCC under the ‘Mukhyamantri Saat Nischay Yojana’ were given all-round training by the TCS to make them employable through skill development, personality grooming and corporate etiquette training. “Success of the programme is gratifying asmost of the selected youths belong to vulnerable sections of the society,” added the DM here on Wednesday.
 
 
