Trichy: Aspiring for a better future, when a couple of Kashmiri youth reached the Central University of Tamil Nadu (CUTN) in Tiruvarur district for the first time, they felt as if they were in a different country. Exposed to a diverse culture and different people with no similarities to the region they belonged to, the youth thought their journey would perhaps be more difficult than in the valley. Two years down the lane, their apprehensions have vanished and they are happy to have adapted to the conditions. While they credit their achievement to the friendly gesture of the people within and outside the university, they were also determined not to let go an opportunity that would help shape their future. It is a fact that the never-ending unrest in the Kashmir valley has been pushing many youth keen on pursuing higher studies out of the state. While a majority of such students from the valley go for higher studies in cities like Chennai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad, Sheik Aasif Majeed and Irfan Ahmed Lone opted for Central University of Tamil Nadu in Tiruvarur. They made the choice despite securing seats in the central universities of Jammu as well as Kashmir.  “We will be in our fifth semester after summer vacations here, but many of our friends in the University of Kashmir will still be in their third,” says Aasif who will be advancing to the third year of his five-year integrated MSc programme in Mathematics. The university in Kashmir was closed for over a month in the last two months because of unrest, he says, adding that many of his friends were regretting not having gone out of the state for studies. “Whatever bad happens around you would certainly affect you and your morale goes down,” says Irfan Ahmed Lone, 21, who will be moving to the third year of the five-year integrated MSc program in Physics after summer vacation. “There are a lot of restrictions back home unlike here,” he says. They realized that language could be a barrier here unlike in the north where Hindi was a common language which was more or less similar to Urdu, their mother tongue. However, the students managed to conquer the language barrier by choosing Tamil as their elective subject.  With students from Tamil Nadu and Kerala in a majority at CUTN, they are aware of the basic words required to converse with people in a shop or whenever they go around. “I had never seen idlis until I came to Tiruvarur. But now, dosa and idli have become our favourite food. It took time for us to shift to the food habits prevalent here, especially in getting used to spicy food,” said Majeed.  The students wish to continue their higher studies here and want to take a positive message back home to encourage more students to come down south to study. Asked about their future plans, they said that they wanted to do something for themselves first and help train many students to join good universities. The duo spent a whole year preparing for the entrance test after their schooling.  “There are many students who cannot afford coaching and we want to help them clear such entrance tests,” said Irfan while urging the government to encourage students from Jammu and Kashmir by way of giving scholarships which they are not entitled to now. Francis Philip Barclay, faculty in the department of Media and Communication, says it is a privilege that CUTN presents a good option for the youth in the strife-torn valley. He said it was laudable that people of such cultural differences met thousands of kms away from home and still felt at home. 