CHANDIGARH: After its muchawaited decision on Friday to add nine new ministers to the Cabinet, the   government will introduce an ordinance soon to appoint its MLAs as “legislative secretaries” to assist ministers.

 The chief minister, Captain Amarinder Singh had announced last week that his government would create a new post to accommodate party MLAs.
 
 Though the   and Haryana high court had in August 2016 quashed the appointment of Punjab’s chief parliamentary secretaries, stating the decision had “bypassed the constitutional mandate,” the Amarinder government seems confident that its proposed ordinance would stand judicial scrutiny.
 
 Punjab advocate-general   told TOI that the state will legislate within the powers given by the Constitution to the state government. “It is a process which is very carefully carved through and we have seen whatever limitations have been imposed on us by the court (while quashing appointments of the chief parliamentary secretaries). I am sure it will stand the test of constitutionality with the court, in case it is challenged,” Nanda said.
 
 
 
 
 A senior officer privy to the developments in the case told TOI, “Earlier, the cabinet branch had prepared the draft ordinance. It has now been sent by the chief secretary to the parliamentary affairs department.”
 
 The ordinance would come up in the next cabinet meeting, but its date is yet to be finalised.
 
 The legislative secretaries would be attached to ministers for assisting them in legislative business without being involved in administrative work. Compared to the chief parliamentary secretaries, who were given rooms in the secretariat, the legislative secretaries would be accommodated in the   building.
 
 The legislative secretaries would not get any extra pay and allowances and would get no new facilities other than those they are drawing as MLAs. They would only be get secretarial staff for smooth functioning in the assembly.
 
 The Congress government’s move to please its MLAs by appointing them as legislative secretaries has already attracted opposition criticism. Leader of opposition and AAP MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira has termed the proposal “grossly erroneous and unconstitutional methodology.”
 
 He said new “unconstitutional appointments” are being made on similar lines of defunct posts of chief parliamentary secretaries.
 
 Advocate  , one of the petitioners who had moved the high court against the CPS appointments, sent a demand notice to the Punjab chief minister on April 14, questioning the proposal. Citing the high court judgment of August 11, 2016, Arora said, “By inventing a new nomenclature, your government, or the Punjab vidhan sabha, cannot be permitted to create posts of ‘legislative assistants’ for keeping the ruling party MLAs in good humour.”
 
 In case, the state government tables any such legislation, Arora clarified he would be compelled to challenge it in the high court.
 
 
 
 Some Congress legislators think that by appointing them as legislative secretaries, their government was handing them lollipops and are worried the court might quash their appointments in future. One of the MLAs, who did not wish to be named, feels appointment as head of a board or corporation is a better deal.
 
 
