AHMEDABAD: Nimisha, a school teacher from  , hot herself tested when she kept falling ill. When she was told that she was HIV+, her world changed. When she told her in-laws about it, she got another shock. Her husband was an   patient and the fact had been hidden from her.

 
 Jagruti, a resident of Anand, could not believe her ears when she was told by the hospital that she was HIV+. The revelation came when her husband underwent a similar test and found to be positive. Her in-laws later told her that they knew it for long. The couple’s child, 18 months of age at that time, was also found to be positive. The husband died but Jagruti had to fight with not only her in-laws but also school authorities when one of the teachers identified her son as ‘AIDS patient’ in a classroom.
 
 When HIV+ and AIDS still evoke horror in the society, these are just a few cases out of over 100 compiled in ‘Stars of the Ground,’ a book published by   of People living with HIV+ (GSNP+) in collaboration with Gujarat State AIDS Control Society (GSACS), chronicling struggles of women living with HIV+.
 
 Daksha, founder of a Surat-based GSNP+, is HIV+ along with her husband. “Our purpose is to put forth the plight of the women who face double discrimination due to their positive status and more often than not being at the end of accusations of being the cause of the disease for their husbands and even questioning their character. They find it difficult to get jobs or even social acceptance once their status is known. But we have to address the elephant in the room and create awareness. We chose to tell stories of these women who braved all odds and are today living with their heads high,” she said.
 
 The book covers a wide range of women, right from a former sarpanch of a village to teachers, social workers, a diamond polisher and a former sex worker. What connected the narratives is the collective horror they went through. According to the book, Junagadh collector had to intervene in a case where a village ostracised a woman with HIV+ after death of her husband and threatened her of dire consequences if she drew water or worked in farms. In another case, a woman from Surat district tried to kill her on pretext of giving her medicines.
 
 Gaurang Jani, a city-based sociologist who was advisor on the project, said that the need of the hour is creating awareness about HIV+ so that preventive tests can be encouraged. “Gujarat has about 1.66 lakh persons with HIV+. They choose not to reveal their status, fearing isolation. In a majority of the cases covered in the book, the women are either living on their own or with their parents as they are invariably thrown out from their matrimonial homes,” he said.
 
 But all’s not bleak. Hiral, a resident of Surat, lost her HIV+ husband after which she first started a beauty parlour and is now the matron at a girls’ hostel, caring for 52 girls. Manisha, a resident of Vadodara, decided to start afresh after her husband died and married an HIV+ man. The couple are working for HIV+ couples and individuals. 
 
 (Names changed to protect identities)
 
 
