New Delhi: If anyone passed through central Delhi on Friday, they could have easily mistaken the packed buses, SUVs parked on the kerb with men advising whom to vote for, food parcels being distributed and posters, hoardings, placards strewn across the street as an ongoing election for assembly or parliamentary polls.

 But what cleared most doubts was the sea of black coats flooding the roads that lead to the  . Elections were on for 25 posts in   (BCD), which have opened up after a gap of nine years.
 
 With polling booths set up in HC premises to conduct voting on Friday and Saturday, Sher Shah Suri Marg was cordoned off for general traffic. In 2017 alone, 7,800 new lawyers were enrolled in Delhi, as per records of   (BCI) whose current chairman is a government nominee, additional solicitor general Maninder Singh.
 
 There are nearly 52,000   who will be casting their franchise in two days to select 25 office bearers out of 173 candidates in the fray.
 
 Being a statutory body, BCD wields great influence and control as it has the power to admit or reject a person as a lawyer, probe allegations of misconduct and grant/renew permission to any college to teach a law course. “We made the electoral roll as per BCI rules and SC order. Keeping in mind the figure of 52,000, we kept polling for two days. On Friday, 17,400 votes were cast,” ASG Singh told TOI.
 
 Candidates worked overtime to network and curry favour with voters in the run up to the elections. Gala dinners and grand parties were held by many in a clear sign that lawyers were not taking any chance even in polls for a bar council.
 
 “The control and influence that one wields over lakhs of Delhi lawyers can hardly be overstated. BCD also frames rules for safeguarding rights, privileges and interest of advocates on its roll,” said a lawyer, who didn’t want to sound too critical.
 
 As per Advocates Act 1961, BCD is supposed to elect members every five years. But with a string of embarrassing incidents of fake lawyers, BCI in 2015 decided to first verify if each lawyer has a valid degree and actually practises in his registered area. The cumbersome exercise, however, ran into problems prompting SC to order fresh polls.
 
 
