"I’ve had both good and bad moments during elections. I’ve had moments where we’ve not had our names on the list as a family because, we shifted houses and such. We had gone to   and our names were missing. Other than that, I’ve never had a negative experience in voting. It’s always great when you go to vote and your   wins, and they actually do something credible. That’s fantastic. Voting, in itself, is becoming a very proud moment. There have been moments where I’ve been tempted to go for the option of not voting for anybody. Overall, I feel it’s a national pride to participate and voice your opinion in the simplest of ways. I feel that there two are the primary reasons why people don’t come out in big numbers to vote. There are times when you go to vote and your name is not there as it has happened in my case. What do you do then? You are not going to fight at that moment. There have been so many situations like that. Sometimes it could be mismanagement also. Because it is such a cosmopolitan city, we have so many outsiders, who live here but have their voters’ ID back home. Most of my friends too are from different countries and different cities, so that also happens.

 Someone has to say that ‘this is my city, this is my country’ and whatever decision we are taking, it’s not just for the present, but also for the future generations. When we look at our freedom, we’ve got it on a platter due to the freedom leaders we’ve had in the past. Whether it was Mahatma Gandhi, Lal Bahadur Shastri, Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, we’ve got fantastic freedom fighters, who’ve given this to us. All we have to do is go cast our votes and stand together as a community to say that this is where we want our country to go. As citizens, if we are being a little more aware and responsible, in a way we are showing respect to what we’ve got and also we’re setting an example for future generations. So, we do it right now or we don’t complain. We always have these two phrases — Adjust Maadi or Next Time — we complain a lot. We shouldn’t be doing either of it. We need to take a chance when required and here’s an opportunity."
 
 
