CHANDIGARH: Punjab legislative assembly on Monday passed a   demanding that the Centre should either go in for appeal against the apex court’s ruling or bring an amendment in Parliament against the alleged dilution of provisions mandating immediate arrest under the   and   (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.

 Raising the issue during the zero hour,   from Jalandhar West Sushil Rinku blamed the BJP at the Centre for not defending the SC/ST Act in the court properly. He expressed concern at the way the Act had been “diluted” by the Supreme Court’s ruling. 
  
 
 
 His views were endorsed by technical education minister Charanjit Singh Channi, who demanded a resolution be passed by the House on the issue condemning the judgment. “It is a sensitive issue and will lead to sense of insecurity among Dalits. We demand that a review petition should be filed by the Centre against the verdict. A resolution should be passed,” he said.
 
 Rinku accused BJP of having “anti-Dalit attitude”. He alleged that the Centre had avoided defending the matter in the SC which led to its passing adverse observations against the Act. The Congress legislators said that a strong protest must be lodged against and registered with the government for facilitating the dilution of the act that safeguards the rights of Dalits and the downtrodden across the country.
 
 It was former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi who had brought in the special Act to safeguard the rights and dignity of the Dalits and the downtrodden, which the BJP was now trying to subvert and undermine, the MLA claimed. The Speaker later said resolution has been passed by the House unanimously.
 
 BJP legislator Som Prakash, meanwhile, said the   was yet to implement its promises made to the Dalit community.
 
 On March 20, the apex court had removed a provision for automatic arrests of those booked under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, and made it mandatory for the police to conduct preliminary inquiries within seven days of a complaint before filing a first information report. The judgment also stated that public servants can be arrested under this law only with the written permission of their  .
 
