NAGPUR: The pamphlets of the red guerrillas, which have been retrieved from certain parts of   and  , reflected the fact that 42 Maoists were killed in two encounters of last month which is two counts more than what the police department has so far claimed. 

 While Gadchiroli district police have claimed that 34 bodies have been recovered from the site and adjoining places, including  , following the encounter in the forests of   on April 22 and another six from Nainer on the following day, the Maoists have made an appeal to the tribal and other populations of the central India to organize meetings to pay homage to their 42 ‘martyrs’. One of the pamphlets, issued by South Sub-Zonal Bureau of the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist), also in possession of TOI, urged the masses to gear up to take revenge against the government’s ‘hired’ C-60 commandos (Gadchiroli) for their ‘merciless’ killings of the Maoist cadres. 
 
 SP Gadchiroli Abhinav Deshmukh said the Maoists have their own system of analysis and presenting the facts when asked about the disparity in the numbers of casualties declared by them. “Police department’s statistics is guided by the numbers of bodies retrieved from Kasnasur and Nainer, which stands at 40,” he said. “This is the first time the Maoists have so aggressively expressed their angst against the C60 commandos along with the government which is their usual target,” said the SP. “Releasing of literature on the basis of the analysis done by the Maoists is part of their known modus operandi. They take their own time but they follow the routine of analysing the incident,” said Deshmukh.
 
 Apart from casting aspersion on the C-60 commandos, the pamphlets also urged the masses to join the revolutionary movement and continue being part of it till the various issues ailing the society are eradicated. In the content of the pamphlet, the Maoists have held the government responsible for trying to usurp the land and natural resources of the tribal for handing them over to the corporate companies for industrialization. 
 
 In the meantime, sources in the district said the so-called fact-finding team of the human right activists who had gone to the spots of the encounters faced some stiff opposition from the families and kin of the victims of the Maoists.
 
 
