ALWAR: Election campaigning for bypolls in Alwar parliamentary constituency came to an end on Saturday with 11 candidates in fray, leaving their fate on 18.27 lakh voters who will cast their votes on January 29. 

 Over the past few days, both   and  , had intensified their efforts for poll battle which has witnessed chief minister   and former chief minister   holding rallies in favour of their candidates.
 
 Raje held roadshow on January 25 and Gehlot took out the roadshow on Saturday. With state assembly elections round the corner, the Alwar bypoll is crucial for both BJP and Congress. A win will instil confidence for upcoming state assembly elections. 
 
 While Vasundhara Raje boosted confidence in BJP supporters in Ajmer, it was Congress stalwart Ashok Gehlot who sought vote for Congress candidate Dr   in Alwar on the last day of election campaigning. Gehot started his road show from Company Bagh which passed through main markets of Alwar in presence of huge gathering of his supporters. While talking to newspersons, Gehlot said people have fade up with the four years of BJP government and in this by-poll, people will vote for defeating BJP. People will uproot this government. Crimes are going up, women are not safe, and rape cases are frequently being reported. He said that BJP has misused government machinery and it is trying to get votes by intimidating voters. 
 
 Besides, BJP state president Ashok Parnami said that the BJP will win all three bypolls in Alwar, Ajmer and Mandalgarh. He said that in past four years, they have completed works of Rs6668 crore in Alwar. People will vote for the works done by the BJP in Alwar. Congress and BJP have chalked out strategies for wooing voters at state assembly constituency level. In Alwar parliamentary seat, there are eight state assembly constituencies. 
 
 The election commission will set up 1,979 polling booths for bypolls. However, they have kept 100 polling parties in reserve. The election commission claimed that they have done all the preparations for elections creating an environment free from fear and without biases. Also, the election commission will deploy 25 battalion force in Alwar constituency. 
 
 Besides, the election commission has also identified highly sensitive polling booths in the Alwar constituency. According to the election commission, there are 199 highly sensitive polling booths. On such polling booths, paramilitary forces will be deployed and videography will be done. These highly sensitive booths, will remain under CCTV cameras and it will be seen live at local election commission office, state election commission office and centre election commission office. 
 
 Besides, it will be for the first time when VVPAT machines will be used for voting. With the help of VVPAT, a voter will be able to verify his vote. 
 
 Alwar police superintendent has also constituted teams under deputy superintendents which will be deployed in different areas and it will act immediately in case of any untoward incident happened at polling booths.
 
 
