BAREILLY: A mob allegedly burnt down the pharmacy of a Muslim youth who eloped with a Hindu girl, later ransacking his house in a village here on Sunday. BJP   on Monday evening gave an ultimatum of 24 hours to police to find the girl, failing which he said he would take up the matter with the chief minister. 

 Meanwhile, fearing police action over the elopement and violence, men from both communities have fled the village after police filed FIRs in connection with the elopement and violence. 
 
 According to police,  , 20, had eloped with a 16-year-old Hindu girl after Holi celebrations on March 3. Villagers said that after the girl's family came to know about the incident, they immediately approached police but their complaint was not registered. On March 5, the girl's relatives gathered the villagers and the mob set Ahmed's pharmacy on fire and ablaze accused man's shop, before ransacking his house.
 
 Police have arrested four persons on charges of rioting and intimidation, while two persons have been arrested for helping the youth elope with the girl. Circle officer Jogendra Lal told TOI that they were very close to catching the couple. Meanwhile, the entire young male population of the village, between 15 and 35 years, has left the area to avoid police action.
 
 Baheri police station house officer   said they have arrested Ahmed's two relatives Kabir and Nazim for helping the couple elope. "Besides, we have arrested four villagers, Ravi, Atul, Devesh and   for the arson and violence. We are conducting raids to find the couple and have got some leads. The matter of the girl's age will be decided once she is found and sent for medical examination. We will consider adding other sections of the IPC only after this," Tyagi said.
 
 "We have booked as many as 36 named and 20 unidentified persons, from both communities, in connection with the elopement and violence. All of them, mostly Hindu, are on the run. Force has been deployed in the village and the situation is normal now," Tyagi added.
 
 
