On May 26,   government completes four years in power. While government is euphoric about its achievements, the mood of the nation is somewhat sombre. According to   consumer confidence survey, the overall confidence of   regarding general  , employment prospects, about their income and spending has waned in March 2018 over the previous quarter. Their expectations regarding the future course too aren’t very rosy.

  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 In the four year period, the Indian economy recorded a 7.3 per cent average GDP growth. This includes a three-year low of 5.7 per cent in the first quarter of 2017-18. However, in the third quarter of 2017-18, India’s GDP jumped to 7.2 per cent on the back of sharp pickup in the services sector and a rebound in agriculture and manufacturing.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 However, despite India’s impressive GDP growth, not many households believe that economy has improved. In fact, the net opinion about the economy has been negative since March 2017, according to RBI consumer confidence survey. 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 But as far as the future direction of the economy is concerned, Indian households are optimistic, though there has been a drop in the level of optimism from the time of demonetisation. 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Inflation under   declined. It came down to 3.6 per cent in FY18 from 9.5 per cent in FY14 on the back of low crude prices, a sharp fall in food inflation and prudent fiscal policy.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Despite a decline, most people believe that inflation has increased.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 After declining to 3.39 per cent in July 2017, the monthly unemployment rate has risen steadily. In October 2017, it touched 5 per cent and rose to 6.1 per cent in February 2018, the highest monthly rate preceding 15 months, as per the data from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE).
 
 
  
  
 
 Employment prospects are a big worry for Indian households. Their opinion about their own employment prospects are at historic lows. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
