NEW DELHI: After   chief   used the hashtag 'PiyushGhotala' to attack the railway minister, Congress sought the sacking of the minister, accusing him of "impropriety and conflict of interest" due to his alleged links with private firm Shirdi Industries.

 
 Questioning the silence of Prime Minister  , Congress members Ghulam Nabi Azad, Veerappa Moily and Pawan Khera alleged that a company associated with   in the past was given a "haircut" loan waiver of 65% on the outstanding loan amount of over Rs 650 crore.
 
 Demanding a probe by a sitting SC judge, Congress said, "Shirdi Industries went to   (NCLT) and shockingly, the consortium of banks agreed to take a waiver of 65% of loan amount and settled for Rs 228.85 crore."
 
 "Surprisingly no one raised an objection that the promoter could not make a bid in view of the prohibitions contained in the insolvency and bankruptcy code amending act, 2017 which prohibits a promoter of sick company from submitting bids before the NCLT," they added.
 
 Congress members said Goyal was chairman and full-time director of Shirdi Industries Ltd from April 25, 2008 to July 1, 2010. The company had worked out a loan of Rs 258.62 crore from a consortium of banks headed by the Union Bank of India.
 
 They said that Shirdi Industries was declared sick on June 8, 2015, almost a year after the Modi government came to power.
 
 Congress members said, "Despite Shirdi Industries (of Rakesh Agarwal and Mukesh Bansal) being declared "sick", their sister company Asis Industries proceeded to grant an unsecured loan of Rs 1.59 crore in 2015-16 to Intercon Advisors Pvt Ltd, a company owned by Seema Goyal, the wife of the Union minister."
 
 "Is it not a clear case of conflict of interest and impropriety on the part of Goyal? Why did Shirdi Industries through its sister concern Asis Industries extend an unsecured loan of Rs 1.59 crore to the minister's wife Seema Goyal's company? Why did Goyal not declare this loan in his public filing on PMO website?" Congress asked.
 
