HYDERABAD: Fasting may emerge as a new tool in keeping   virus in check. It may also serve as a therapeutic intervention to keep blood fat levels at optimum level to prevent cardiovascular diseases.

 Scientists noted that fasting helps in controlling the spread of Hepatitis C virus in humans. They also found that a chemical called Kinesin regulates cholesterol and other fat levels in the blood. Incidentally, a low content of   observed after fasting helps in preventing the replication of Hepatitis C virus, reveals a research study. The results of the study were presented at the ongoing   (  - 2018) on Sunday.
 
 "We show that controlled secretion requires motor protein Kinesin to transport fat-containing particles (called lipid droplets) to locations inside liver cells from where fat is secreted out. Most interestingly, this transport is increased or decreased depending on the metabolic state of the body (fed versus fasted)," said  , a professor at the department of biological sciences, Tata Institute for Fundamental Research, Mumbai.
 
 
  
 
 He said, "Kinesin, therefore, allows the liver to control how much of its internally stored fat will be secreted, and this in turn maintains circulating fat in our body. We also found that the Hepatitis C virus takes advantage of this mechanism to replicate inside liver cells".
 
 Mallik explained that the liver secretes lipids in a controlled manner despite vast changes in its internal lipid content. This buffering function is most visible after fasting, when liver triglyceride increases drastically, but circulating serum triglyceride barely fluctuates. How the liver controls triglyceride secretion is unknown, but is fundamentally important for lipid and energy homeostasis.
 
 "However, when fasting induces massive lipid accumulation in liver, kinesin is removed from lipid-droplets. This inhibits lipid supply... Interestingly, reducing kinesin also blocks propagation of Hepatitis C virus inside liver cells," he added.
 
 To keep one healthy, the liver must secrete fat into blood in precisely controlled manner. The research study suggested that in the absence of Kinesin, freshly prepared Hepatitis C virus proteins cannot transfer, a step that is essential for the virus replication.
 
 
