In the latest episode of  , Sodhi suggests they should lock   until Sakharam (his scooter) is repaired.   rejects the idea and instead plans they should all go to work before Bhide gets down to write the 'Thought of the day' on the society's board. 

 Mehta reminds them that it is Sunday the next day. But Jethalal, Sodhi and Dr.   tell him the nature of their work doesn't limit them to working only on weekdays. They can pretend to be busy on a Sunday. 
 
 When Mehta asks them what excuse he will cite to get out of the society, Jethalal tells him he doesn't need to. It is their kids who have done the deed, so Mehta can stay in the society and keep Bhide calm when he doesn't find his scooter. 
 
 Mehta refuses to do so, but Jethalal, Sodhi and Hathi emotionally blackmail him. When Hathi asks them where they will stay until the scooter is repaired, Jehtalal tells them they can sit in their godown and have some snacks as well. 
 
 Mehta asks them if they would be able to get up in the morning, Jethalal tells him it would be difficult but they would have to manage. They all return to the society and decide to head home one by one to avoid suspicion from family members.
 
 Mehta reaches home. His wife Anjali opens the door and tells him how she was worried for him since it's already four. She asks Mehta how is his friend's wife and he tells her she is still critical. She tells him she'd go and see her the next day. Mehta switches off the light, which works as a signal for the next person to head home. 
 
 Hathi goes to his house next, where even Komal inquires about his patient. Hathi lies to her and sets the alarm for the next day. He switches off the light. And the next to return home is Sodhi. He rings the doorbell and finds his wife Roshan waiting for him. She tells him how   returned home all tensed. Sodhi tricks her and they go to sleep. However, he forgets to switch off the light.
 
 Jethalal calls him and reminds him to switch off the light, so he could go back home. When Jetha enters, Bapu Ji is seen waiting for him, Jethalal discusses business with him and goes to take rest. Later, in his room, Jetha regrets lying to Bapu Ji.
 
