 South Goa is buzzing with the feel of  , once again.
 
  The great North-South divide has been existent in Goan football for a long time now but credit where it’s due: South still rules the roost with the second edition of the Goa Sevens Premier League (GSPL), organised by   Sports Club, providing valid proof.
  
  The seven-a-side version of football played on a 60x40 metre field was a hit last year when it was held outside the Nehru Stadium in Fatorda. This year too, the Sevens League is showing the same promise and gaining momentum at the Ambelim sports complex.
  
  While the men’s league has grown from eight to 12 teams, it has created a window of opportunity for women’s football in Goa with the first six-team Women’s Football Festival held simultaneously at the same venue.
  
  “Our main aim is to promote football and take the Sevens League to every village. Soon after the successful completion of the first edition, we had decided to conduct the tournament in Ambelim. In the third edition, we will move to another village. Our success depends on local people,” said GSPL president  .
  
  These are good times for women’s football in Goa. When the Goa Football Association launched the first Goa Women’s League last year, there were apprehensions. But it turned out to be a hit, providing a platform for over 100 young footballers. The festival at the Sevens League is another giant step for the promotion of women’s football.
  
  “The league was a good initiative but the girl’s needed more exposure,” said Silva, the former Velim MLA.
  
  The women’s match is the first to kick-off proceedings at Ambelim and fans slowly made their way to the stands as Skyla Strikers took on the might of Ambelim Queens. The crowd gradually grew in numbers before the men’s fixture as FC Bardez got the better of Santa Cruz Club, Cavelossim 2-1.
  
  For the girls, this was a new experience. They didn’t disappoint and adapted to the fast-paced format. The intensity was obviously higher in the men’s clash but the women’s made up for it with precision passing and, of course, goals.
  
    was the Player-of-the-Match for her brace that helped Ambelim win 3-2 and the striker was delighted to receive her award from India coach Maymol Rocky. Someone, somewhere is certainly taking note.
  
  
  
