NEW DELHI: I&B minister   on Thursday made a strong pitch for creating a new architecture of “laws, ethics and rules” to help the media sector cope with the challenges thrown by the dizzying pace of digitisation and to thwart the risk of the emergence of a monopoly.

 
 Addressing the 15th Asia Media Summit (AMS) that opened in New Delhi on Thursday, Irani urged participants to find new ideas to strengthen media institutions, and said exponential growth of the digital space presented both possibilities and challenges for the industry. Irani said India would have around 969 million internet users by 2021. “How do we attract, retain and develop talent which frees good content from the trappings of revenue needs and bring about a balance in me- dia institutions, that is what we must consider,” she said.
 
 Referring to the growth potential of the media market,  , managing director,  , emphasised the role that media industry could play as a catalyst for change in society if it got advertising support on par with its counterparts in other countries.
 
 “The headroom for growth is enormous. Advertising is the lifeblood of the media industry, but advertising spend as a percentage of India’s GDP is the lowest among the world’s largest economies. In Asia alone, Japan is at 0.88%, China at 0.7%, Malaysia at 0.64% and Singapore at 0.6%. And India’s ad spend? A minuscule 0.33% of GDP. Increased advertising expands consumer demand, drives sales and boosts GDP. Most importantly, it helps create jobs, something this country desperately needs,” Jain said.
 
  
 Expressing concern over telecom firms, social networks and e-commerce platforms seeing themselves as media players, Jain warned, “Consolidation in the telecom industry has left just three serious players standing. With mobile becoming virtually the only screen, telcos will control what you watch, read, consume and transact, leading to a near-monopoly situation.”
 
 The government must discourage further mergers and acquisitions in the telecom sector because that would drastically limit consumer choice, the MD said. “For the same reason, it should bring laws against telcos owning and favouring its content over others, just as TV channels are not allowed to own majority stakes in cable networks,” he added.
 
 Jain also flagged the need for regulatory reforms. “For Indian media to realise its full potential, regulatory reforms are needed across the board — to make it easier to do business, remove anomalies in the system and above all, ensure a fair marketplace that benefits the consumer,” he said. 
 
 Stakeholders agreed that expansion of digital spaces, while boosting scope for conversations, also generated concerns over fake news and misinformation, Jain said. “Digital media platforms, like  ,  , WhatsApp and YouTube are enablers of great conversation, but they are also hotbeds for misinformation, propaganda and the spread of fake news. They have realised that unverified content can attract attention and revenues. India must take a more proactive stance by holding digital platforms accountable for the content they propagate, just as any other media company is held accountable for what it publishes or broadcasts,” he added.
 
 The Times Group MD said doubts that had emerged with regard to digital platforms had helped boost credibility of the print medium. “In a world where the line between real and fake news is being blurred, especially on social media, the credibility of print is being increasingly valued by discerning consumers. But sadly, the business model of newspapers is under threat with rising newsprint prices and cut-throat digital advertising,” Jain said. 
 
  
 Digital India looked to become an extension of US and Chinese companies rather than a strong standalone ecosystem and this had serious economic and political implications for India, he said. “These digital businesses will become the backbone of media, commerce, information and finance for India. Foreign companies and agencies will control valuable and extensive data about India, and that should worry us,” Jain said.
 
 Minister for electronics and IT, and law and justice  , however, sought to allay fears. He referred to   using Facebook user data to influence polls in India and said India would not be allowed to become a centre of data pilferage. He added that freedom of media was “integral to polity” and the government was committed to upholding press freedom. He agreed there was a need to segregate the real from the “fake”. 
 
 
