AGRA/BAREILLY: The Uttar Pradesh government has warned district administrative officials and those of the panchayati raj department of strict action in case of any death due to   or malnutrition across the state.
 
  In such cases, gram panchayats are required to provide immediate relief to the needy, especially to farmers in distress. Administrative officials and gram panchayats have been directed to effectively implement provisions made under the 73rd amendment of the Constitution, failing which the state government would take swift action against them, officials said.
  
  Additional chief secretary   has issued a directive to the director of panchayati raj department and all district magistrates (DMs) in this regard. According to Tiwari’s letter, if any unemployed villager or debt-ridden farmer commits suicide due to poverty, officials including the village pradhan concerned, the block development officer, sub-divisional magistrate and DM would be held responsible. Officials have been tasked with making the rounds of gram panchayats and monitor effective implementation of provisions of the 73rd amendment of the Constitution.
  
  Tiwari’s letter, dated December 2 said, “To curb hunger and malnutrition is among the top priorities of the state government. District administrative officers must ensure that no one dies of starvation or tries to commit suicide. People suffering from malnutrition and hunger should be identified and provided suitable assistance in a time-bound manner.”
  
  The additional chief secretary highlighted the fact that the 73rd amendment of the Constitution has strengthened the role of gram panchayats. “Gram pradhan and gram panchayat secretaries regularly organize meetings of gram sabhas. At these meetings, beneficiaries of rural development, social welfare, food supplies, women and child welfare schemes are identified. Gram panchayat secretaries maintain a list of extremely poor families. Officials must frequently check the status of these families and, along with gram panchayats, provide them the required assistance to relieve them from hunger and malnutrition,” the letter said.
  
  In  , in November 2017, an alleged starvation death of one Shaqina of   was reported, although the district administration had said that she died of old age-related ailments.
  
  Agra DM Gaurav Dayal said, “Working with gram panchayats, extremely poor families of the district will be identified and suitable steps will be taken to give them the benefits of various pro-poor schemes of the government. We are already working on controlling and reducing malnutrition.”
  
  A senior Bareilly district official said on condition of anonymity, “The loan waiver scheme has benefited farmers, while easy loan facilities have helped unemployed youths. To eliminate the curse of malnutrition among children and women, officers have been instructed to take several measures and to monitor such people at regular intervals. The government wants results, which is why responsibility is being fixed at every level from top to bottom in the district.”
  
  Additional district magistrate (Bareilly city), OP Verma told TOI, “We will ensure that we follow the government’s directives strictly. All village headmen are being instructed to inform us immediately if they find any unemployed person or farmer living in distress.”
