LUDHIANA: Angry with a 15-year-old girl for turning down his marriage proposal, a 19-year-old boy barged into her house in the dead of night and threw acid on the minor, leaving her seriously injured.

 The boy, identified as Manoj Kumar of Barewal road, carried out the attack when she was sleeping in her house in the wee hours on Tuesday. He fled the spot immediately after the attack.
 
 
 The teenager suffered 40% burns while her mother, who was sleeping beside her, suffered minor burns on her stomach and arm. The girl was rushed to a nearby hospital where her condition is stated to be out of danger.
 
 Police have arrested the attacker who has confessed to the crime.
 
 Police said the youth, who is girl’s relative and made his living as a carpenter, had been harassing her for the past some time.
 
 The minor’s father is a labourer at a furniture store near the bus stand while her mother works as a domestic help. The accused is brother-in-law of victim’s elder sister.
 
 The PAU police have lodged an FIR under Sections 354-D (Stalking), 452 (House-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint, 326 (Voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons or means) of the IPC against Manoj.
 
 The victim’s mother claimed the boy has been following her younger daughter since her elder daughter got married to the youth’s brother in April 2017.
 
 Speaking to TOI, the mother alleged, “The accused would often call on my number wishing to talk to my daughter. He would often visit our home, making his intention clear that he wanted to marry the girl. My daughter is too young for marriage and moreover she did not like him. But he did not understand.”
 
 The girl alleged, “Manoj often stalked me. He would stop me on the way and would harass me with his marriage proposal. Every time I would tell him that I don’t want to marry him, but he kept on insisting.”
 
 Inspector Brij Mohan, SHO, PAU police station, said on Monday night, the girl was sleeping with her mother in a room, while her father and brother were sleeping outside. The accused entered the house by scaling the boundary wall. He then went inside the room, used phone torch to check where the girl is sleeping and threw acid on her.
 
 The inspector said the police arrested accused on Tuesday itself.
 
 Box: He attacked her hours after rejection
 
 The minor’s mother said, “Since my elder daughter is married in that family, we did not approach police initially. However, I talked to his family who did not listen to us and in fact blamed by daughter for having an affair with him. On Monday, Manoj called me repetitively, but I did not answer his calls. Later, in afternoon he met me when I was on the way to work and asked me to get her daughter married to him.”
 
 “In evening, I called Manoj’s mother and asked her to stop his son from pressurizing us. Later at 7pm, she called back and asked my daughter if she wanted to marry Manoj, but she refused. Hours later when we were sleeping, Manoj came and attacked my daughter with acid,” her mother added.
 
 Box: Victim tried to nab accused
 
 The girl said though in extreme pain after being attacked with acid, she tried to nab the accused. But he escaped.
 
 ‘Wanted to marry her’
 
 Inspector Brij Mohan said that since the time the accused has been arrested, he has constantly saying one thing that he wants to marry the girl.
 
 
