KOLKATA: Between 2014 and 2017, the tiger population in the forests outside the   area has logged a growth of more than 40%. The South 24 Parganas forest division that had at least 17 animals in 2014-15, recorded a minimum of 24 tigers in 2015-17. Among these 24, at least 16 were new tigers that had not been caught in camera traps in any of the other four ranges in the Sunderbans over the period, WWF-India officials said.

 Inside the tiger reserve, or the core area, which had recorded a minimum of 68 tigers in 2012-13, the count was 65 in 2015-17, a figure considered as stable by foresters.
 
 The latest findings are part of a report — Tiger Population Dynamics Of Sunderbans Biosphere Reserve Session: 2012-17 — released by the state forest department and WWF-India on Friday. 
 
 The overall big cat population in the whole of the Sunderbans was 89, with at least 17 cubs and five sub-adults being clicked over the past five years.
 
 “The South 24 Parganas forest division supports higher tiger densities than many areas of the   Reserve, despite higher human presence in the district,” said Pranav Chanchani, coordinator, tiger conservation at WWF-India. “The reasons for this are not fully understood yet, but it is conceivable that this habitat is more productive for prey because of lower salinity levels in sea water. In contrast, salinity levels are considerably higher within the STR. The construction of the Farakka barrage has considerably reduced the influx of fresh water from the   into the Sunderbans,” he added.
 
 The report also revealed that 74 tigers photographed across the mangroves could not be found during the exercise a year after they were camera-trapped. Interestingly, no official tiger deaths have been reported from the Sunderbans in the last two years.
 
 “Tiger mortality often goes undetected and unreported even in terrestrial habitats that are more accessible. We do not have reliable information on poaching of tigers or their prey in the Indian Sunderbans. However, given the massive pressure on the species for illegal international trade and the many challenges of securing expansive wilderness areas, one can speculate that poaching also contributes to tiger mortality of tigers and their prey. A 2016 study in the   reported extensive use of snares to trap tiger prey and a few snares for tigers,” Chanchani added.
 
 WWF-India’s Sunderbans chapter head Ratul Saha said tiger occupancy in the Sunderbans varies depending upon change in weather, tidal cycles, vegetation, prey base and water availability. “All this impacts tiger activity, making tigers explore newer areas for territory and forcing other individuals to leave. Increase in number of camera trap locations and days, along with a coordinated effort with the   Sunderbans will give the best estimate for the mangroves,” he added.
 
 STR field director   said that the exercise brings to light that the tiger population in the Sunderbans is stable. “We have a stable breeding population too. The rise in tiger population in the South 24 Parganas division shows that the dispersing tigers from the reserve area are making territories there,” he added.
 
 
