SURAT: The city-based Nature Club Surat (NCS) has taken up periodic cleanliness drive at the eco-tourism sites, water falls and wildlife sanctuaries in the tribal-dominated   district to ensure the survival of wild and aquatic life in the forest region. 

 NCS has joined hands with the Oil and   (ONGC) for the full year periodic cleanliness drive and sensitizing the visitors on proper disposal of garbage and nuisance of leaving human footprints in the beautiful and serene forests in the Dang. 
 
 Some of the most-visited spots, including the eco-tourism sites such as Mahal, Padamdungri, Kilad, Kewdi, Gira waterfall, Crab and  , have been identified for the periodic cleanliness and garbage collection. 
 
 Forests of Dang are known for its dense vegetation and experience heavy tourist footfall throughout the year. The eco-tourism sites developed with the intent of giving nature lovers a chance to be close to nature are visited by nature enthusiast and adventure lovers for trekking expeditions, nature walks as well as for picnics. 
 
 The tourists and travellers leave behind a trail of garbage, including plastic bags, bottles and food items, at the eco-tourism sites, infesting the forest with non-biodegradable disposables like plastic garbage and waste.
 
 Over time, most of this garbage finds way to rivers, local streams or water bodies, endangering the life of wild and aquatic animals. The visitors also throng the   and the Vansda National Park, situated in the Dang and most of the tourist sites in these protected areas are located in remote locations where no systematic garbage disposal system is available, leading to accumulation of garbage in these areas. 
 
 “Over the years, NCS has been undertaking cleanliness drives at the those sites for removal of garbage from these eco-sensitive zones. It is a continuous activity and needs proper sensitization in visiting public too for reducing this human made pollution,” said Snehal Patel of NCS.
 
 Volunteer of NCS Ashish   said, “The garbage is segregated into biodegradable and non-biodegradable. Non-biodegradable waste will be transported to suitable locations for recycling.”
 
 
