GUWAHATI: Hollywood-based   and Mumbai-based   have joined hands to collaborate on the first ever Indo-American co-production with an Assamese director. Padma Bhushan awardee  , who has previously directed films in   as well as in England, will be the director of the film, which has been titled 'Unread Pages'.

 'Unread Pages' will be shot in   and North America. The film will get all the benefits of the new state tourism policy. The cast is yet to be decided but is expected to feature local as well as foreign actors. It is expected that the film will be completed in the next two years.
 
 'Lunchbox' producer Shahnaab Alam, representing Easterly Entertainment, said at a press conference on Saturday he has big hopes from the new project. "They (Ivanhoe Pictures) liked the project for Jahnu da's powerful storyline and they were only too happy to collaborate. As things fell into place, this naturally became the first ever international co-production of a story set primarily in Assam and to be shot in Assam as well," Alam told TOI. 
 
 Speaking at the same venue, Barua said, "I'm pretty excited for this project. It will be a new experience for me and I'm looking forward to it. To make a film alone is not easy. Filmmaking needs teamwork and to come together like this is a great move. This is a good step for Assam as well."
 
 Speaking further about 'Unread Pages', the veteran filmmaker said most of the film will be shot in upper Assam. Around 30% of the film will have dialogues in English and the rest will be in Assamese, he added.
 
 'Unread Pages' will follow the story of a happy family that is torn apart. The protagonist, having been estranged from his land and culture, later returns from New York to Assam to redeem himself and find his identity.
 
 Ivanhoe Pictures has been associated with several projects in the country before. Global executive vice-president Kilian Kerwin said the production house is looking forward to its maiden venture in Assam. 
 
  chairman Jayanta Mallah Baruah said the department will bear up to Rs 1 crore in making the film, besides doling out other benefits as per the tourism policy guidelines. 
 
 
