NAGPUR: The   has finally moved to tackle the impending water crisis. NMC’s water works department has prepared a proposal of Rs12.08 crore to keep alternate sources of water supply ready, other than present two sources — Totladoh reservoir and Kanhan river. NMC will strengthen water supply system, including cleaning of public wells, installing electric pumps, digging new borewells, and setting up hydrants.

 The proposal will be tabled before the standing committee meeting on February 9. As per the proposal, Rs 2.23 crore will be used to clean existing wells, Rs49.75 lakh for installing electric pumps, Rs 5.22 crore for mini water schemes, Rs 3.56 crore for digging new borewells, Rs 20.25 lakh for installation of new hydrants, Rs1.50 lakh for rejuvenating old borewells and Rs 18.75 lakh for rainwater harvesting.
 
 TOI had recently reported that water storage in reservoirs is very poor. This year, due to poor rainfall,   (VIDC) had demanded a drastic cut in NMC water consumption. NMC’s reservation in Totladoh is 190 mm3. VIDC says that as per norms, it should be only 106 mm3. A case is going on in Maharashtra Water Resources Regulatory Authority (MWRRA) in this regard.
 
 In all 44 proposals worth over Rs36.54 crore will come up before the standing panel meeting to be chaired by chairman   on February 9. 
 
 The other 43 proposals include one on tax system to be implemented in 2018-2019. As per the proposal submitted by property tax department, there will be no change in the existing taxation system. The department, however, has implemented imposing 1% green tax in property tax. 
 
 Though the resolution was passed in 2016-17, the tax department will start imposing green tax from this fiscal. Though the department has generated 2.16 lakh bills sans green tax, the remaining property tax invoices will be generated with 1% green tax, the proposal stated.
 
 Other proposals include allotment of parking lot at Mahatma Fule General Market Bhavan, and Shahid Maidan and Vegetable market for Rs38.56 lakh per annum, construction of shelter for urban homeless for Rs56.47 lakh, appointing 141 computer operators on contract basis at a monthly payment of Rs24,124.
 
 The general administration department has submitted a proposal to appoint civic body’s former chief engineer   as technical consultant.   retired on January 31 this year.
 
 The traffic department has finally realized the importance of zebra crossings in other parts of the city. The department has submitted a proposal to paint zebra crossings in major junctions in south, west, east, north, Indora and MIDC Nagpur at a cost of Rs2.26 crore.
 
 
