Two teams in the lower half of the table clash at the Chinnaswamy Stadium in the knowledge that a loss will pretty much mean the end of their campaign in this year’s  . Both Mumbai and Bangalore have some of the biggest names in the game but have not been able to achieve the consistency in both batting and bowling that makes the difference in the ultra-short format. Both teams have also fielded pretty ordinarily, dropping catches at vital stages which has allowed the opposition batsmen to flourish and get matchchanging scores.

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 It is hard to find a top-four batting line-up as good as the Royal Challengers, yet they have got past 200 only once so far in the tournament.They will be hoping that their talismanic batsman AB de Villiers will have recovered and is fit for this all-important contest. Brendon McCullum and Quinton de Kock are a destructive opening pair but have only got a half-century opening partnership against Kolkata. Both have not been able to go on to play the kind of impact innings that can propel the team to a huge total.
 
 
 
 Virat Kohli played a brilliant innings against Mumbai in their away game and going by the touch he displayed against Kolkata, Mumbai should be watching out for another scorcher from the Bangalore skipper. The other issue is that once these guys are out there is no finisher for the Bangalore team.
 
 More importantly their bowling is inconsistent which makes Kohli’s task even harder as to whom to bring on and at what stage of the innings. Bowling is a problem for Mumbai too, though Bumrah bowled superbly against Chennai. Markande has lost a bit of the spark that he had at the start of the tournament and the fizz is not quite there in Mustafizur, too, so far this season.Rohit Sharma is the key for when he scores, Mumbai invariably get a good score and it was good to see him bat at No. 3 ahead of the young and impetuous but talented Ishan Kishan. Both the Mumbai wins so far have come when the skipper has played a big innings.Suryakumar Yadav is batting beautifully and Evin lewis is as ferocious a hitter as fellow West Indians Chris Gayle and Andre Russell.
 
 It’s going to be like a semifinal for every game for both teams and they have to play as if their lives depend on the result. PMG/ESP
 
 
