NEW DELHI: From languishing at seventh place and staring at elimination to soaring to fourth on the   points table,   have become the talk of the tournament. With their third consecutive victory on Sunday, the Jaipur franchise has settled at fourth place with 12 points from 12 matches, and now look like a team to be reckoned with, especially with   reeling off five consecutive half-centuries and   flummoxing opposition batsmen with his clever changes of pace. 

 
 
 
 This has left the former India captain Kris Srikkanth to marvel at Rajasthan’s resurgence, which he believes is down almost squarely to the overseas pair of Buttler and Archer. On Sunday against defending champions Mumbai Indians, Archer took the wickets of Suryakumar Yadav and Rohit Sharma off successive deliveries, which played a big role in MI totalling 168/6, which was chased down with two overs remaining thanks to Buttler’s unbeaten 94.
 
 “The combination of Archer and Butler has been central in reviving Rajasthan’s dwindling fortunes. It will only be right if both are paid equal credit. To bowl four overs for 16 runs in a high scoring game, deserves special mention. The 14 dot balls from Archer were instrumental in keeping Mumbai in check and that in my opinion gave Rajasthan a target they could hunt down,” wrote Srikkanth, who captained India in four Test matches and 13 ODIs, in today’s TOI. 
 
 “There is no sight more endearing in cricket than a fast bowler rushing in and hurrying the best of batsmen with sheer pace. Unfortunately bowlers don’t get the same adulation as batsmen and Jofra Archer must be thinking what more should he be doing to gain a piece of the limelight, one that has entirely belonged to Buttler.”
 
 In Srikkanth’s estimation, the Barbados-born Archer, 23, was a throwback to West Indian fast bowlers of yore with the ability to turn matches in a matter of deliveries. 
 
 “Archer possess two weapons that will never go out of fashion in the game. An incisive yorker and a well directed bouncer. Both Surya Yadav and Rohit Sharma had to play those bouncers. Wickets in successive balls set Mumbai back from where they never really recovered. Archer laid the path and Butler complimented the effort brilliantly,” he wrote. “During my playing days (against West Indies), there will be passages of play where it would look like we were gaining ascendency but one quick and hostile spell from one of their many pacers would turn the match on the head.”
 
 As for Buttler, Srikkanth was impressed with the England wicketkeeper-batsman’s ability to close out matches. 
 
 “Making him return to the top was easily the best call from the team think tank. The Englishman is in the form of his life, but what separates him from the rest is his ability to finish matches. To bat through two successful chases is no mean task and he has achieved that without breaking a sweat,” wrote Srikkanth. 
 
 Rajasthan play Kolkata Knight Riders today at Eden Gardens, with both teams level on 12 points. 
 
 “Tuesday’s clash against Kolkata will be another virtual quarter-final for Rajasthan. On current form both units look good. In my opinion, the only weakness with Rajasthan is the strike power of  . Batting at top and going at a strike rate of 122 is not helping his team’s cause,” wrote Srikkanth.
 
 
