Chandigarh: Disc jockey Varnika Kundu on Monday faced 500 questions for nearly five hours in a marathon court hearing in the high-profile   in which Vikas Barala, the son of Haryana BJP president Subhash Barala, is the main accused.

 The cross-questioning of the daughter of IAS officer V S Kundu revealed her car had broken down a day before the incident on August 3 and she was dropped the next day in Sector 8 to pick up her vehicle at 11.15pm, more than an hour before Barala and his friend Ashish allegedly began to chase her in their car.
 
 The defence counsel, Rabindra Pandit, also claimed the mobile tower location of Varnika was found to be in Fatehpur village, Chamkaur Sahib, Ropar district, one hour before the incident. Varnika, however, denied the claim, saying “I was never in Ropar.”
 
 Pandit said Varnika had been talking to her friend Anubhav Gaurang over phone for 1 hour and 9 minutes and it was only at 12.26am on August 5 that her mobile tower location came to Sector 26, near Grain Market, Chandigarh.
 
 Varnika said her car key had got stuck in the ignition and she had parked it in Sector 8 market and went home by a cab on August 3. The next day, she was dropped in Sector 8 by the official cab provided to her father. She said she left for her home in Panchkula at 12.15 am, when on the way Barala, a student of law at Kurukshetra University, and Ashish, a law graduate, allegedly followed her and tried to stop her car.
 
 Varnika admitted an advocate, Rajdeep Takoria, was present in the police station at the time of registration of the FIR (first information report). It was told that Takoria was her paternal uncle and her father had called him. The defence counsel claimed her uncle and father wrote the complaint and her signatures were forged, allegations Varnika denied.
 
 Your favourite music?
 
 (Some of the questions Varnika Kundu had to answer in her cross-questioning in the district court complex in Sector 43, Chandigarh, on Monday)
 
 Which kind of music is liked and played by you?
 
 Did you notice or were aware about the number of CCTV cameras installed at various locations?
 
 Where is your place?
 
 When did you call the PCR?
 
 Did you inform your mother about the incident?
 
 Was one advocate present along with you and your father in the police station when the FIR was registered?
 
 Did you get the key of your car that broke down repaired?
 
 How long do you know your friend Abhinav and what does he do?
 
 Did you mention about the kidnapping to the PCR or while recording of statements?
 
 Was your mobile on recording mode?
 
 From which side did the PCR vehicle come?
 
 Urdu effect
 
 The defence counsel, Rabindra Pandit, had prepared all his notes in Urdu, which could not be read by anyone, including prosecution lawyer Manu Kakkar. He jokingly asked, “Are these notes in Urdu?” Rabindra Pandit replied in the affirmative.
 
 Body language
 
 Varnika Kundu remained confident while giving out details of what happened on that fateful night. She was particular about which word to use and at what time with full stops and commas. She did get perturbed over the long list of questions, asking for a glass of water once. However, there was drastic change in the body language of Vikas Barala and his friend Ashish, who appeared confident. 
 
 
