BHOPAL: Adding yet another feather to its cap, the   in the state capital has become the first non-cricket stadium in the country which is completely powered by solar energy. The stadium is being owned and maintained by the   department.

 With the green power, the stadium would be able to save its electricity bill by 60% per month.
 
 Sports minister Yashodhara Raje   said the decision to go green was also a part of economic necessity.
 
 “As we all know there is a need to shift towards renewable sources of energy due to the limitation of non-renewable or conventional energy. Thus, it was decided to start the project from our stadium based in the state capital,” said Scindia.
 
 In all, 375 kw solar electricity is being generated through solar panels. “We have implemented the net-metering in the stadium,” said Scindia. Net metering is a solar incentive that allows one to pass on surplus power generated to the grid and claim credit for it. When solar panels produce excess power, that energy is sent to the grid and in exchange one can draw from the grid when system is under-producing like during night time.
 
 Stadium has been paying around Rs 5 lakh per month on electricity bill. Sports department officials said it would be brought down to Rs 2 lakh.
 
 Scindia added that cost of installation would be recovered in the next four years. “If we calculate the money which could be saved after installing solar panels then it is clear that the installation cost would be recovered in next 4-5 years. Incidentally, the life of installed solar panels is around 25 years,” Scindia said.
 
  is a multi-purpose stadium. It is the base of several sports academies. Athletes of these academies stays in the stadium in different room developed for them. Football, athletics, volleyball, hockey, basketball, badminton, cricket, handball, table tennis, taekwondo, wrestling and such other facilities are available in the stadium.
 
 Sports department has now decided to install the solar panels according to the need at MP shooting academy and MP equestrian academy. Both academies are running on the outskirts of Bhopal. New ranges of 25m and 10 m were recently inaugurated. Equestrian academy had recently organised national championship.
 
 Incidentally, India’s first solar powered cricket stadium is Chinnaswamy in Bengaluru, while Surashtra Cricket Stadium was second in the country.
 
 
