KOLKATA: Rehabilitated rakes are coming in handy for   as the introduction of new ones is delayed due to technical reasons. Of the seven older rakes sent for  , three are already in service and the fourth will arrive in the next few days. The fifth will be ready in June.

 “Metro rakes have a codal life of 25 years. Seven rakes were sent for midterm rehabilitation after they completed 14 years in service. The renovation of each rake takes about four months. During the process, changes are made to the body and mechanical structure for greater safety. This is done to ensure there are no mechanical failures during services,”   Railway CPRO   said.
 
 Metro has 27 rakes, of which, 13 are air-conditioned. Of these, Metro requires 20 rakes to run 300 services every day. Two others are kept on a stand-by. Two rakes are also undergoing periodic overhaul at any point of time. According to Banerjee, efforts are made to ensure 300 services come what may.
 
 “Sometimes when a rake develops a snag and has to be withdrawn, we immediately bring in another rake to replace it. Just as we don’t want passengers to be inconvenienced, earnings are also a factor. The rehabilitated rakes have come in very handy and they haven’t suffered any major breakdown after restoration,” she said.
 
 Among the things replaced or repaired are the sole bars (these hold up the coaches and attach them to the undercarriage) and body bolsters. The coach floorings are also replaced and inside furnishings repaired or changed. The rehabilitated coaches have modern passenger information system. Vital cables that have undergone wear and tear are also replaced. New fans are installed and vestibules are repaired wherever any damage is noticed. Electrical fittings are also replaced and miniature circuit breakers changed.
 
 “The renovation is not related to any equipment failure. It is a routine process that all rakes will undergo once they are over 14 years old. This way, Metro Railway hopes to extend the lives of rakes. If we were to wait for the rakes to complete 25 years, they would be worn out for any repairs. A rehabilitated rake can be used for more than 25 years,” another Metro official said.
 
