MUMBAI: As if preparing for   wasn’t stressful enough, several students with special needs struggled to find a writer even a day before the exams were to begin. 

 “Until 8pm on Tuesday, I did not have a writer. I thought I would miss the year...I sought help from all my contacts and was finally able to find one in the evening,” said  , a visually impaired arts student from Siddharth College in Fort. 
 
 Nearly 15 lakh students in the state, including over 3 lakh in Mumbai, will begin their HSC exams with English paper on Wednesday. 
 
  must be at least a year younger to the students, but adult writers can be assigned to students as a last resort. While it is fairly easier for English medium students to find a writer, those from   face hurdles. 
 
 Organizations that help students find writers pointed out that the state board is yet to start a writers’ bank to aid differently abled students in appearing for SSC and HSC exams. “The state either needs to be more flexible in the required criteria for writers or provide them. Most younger students either have their own exams or are preparing for them making it difficult for them to volunteer as writers,” said Ummehaani Bagasrawala, founder of Pearls of Vision, a support group which connects examinees and writers.
 
 Board officials admitted they do not have a pool of writers yet. “It is practically not possible to connect writers from our end because students need to find someone who stays close to their home or exam centre. We grant permissions as soon as possible in case of last-minute change in writer,” said  , in-charge secretary of Mumbai division board. 
 
 This exam season, there will be many firsts in terms of   after last year’s question paper leak on social media. Answer sheets will have bar codes, and question papers will be sealed in bundles of 25 only and will be opened in front of students.
 
 Shakuntala Kale, state board chairperson, said curbing copying has been the top concern. “An experts’ committee was set up and based on its recommendations, the state initiated new measures,” she said. “The most important point is that students have to reach centres by 10.30am and after the final bell goes off at 11am, no student will be allowed inside the exam hall. Late entry would be allowed only in exceptional cases, with permission of the divisional board concerned.”
 
 Board officials said if a student reaches between 11am and 11.10am, the exam conductor at the centre will decide on allowing him/her inside the hall based on the reason. If a student reaches between 11.10am and 11.20am, the exam conductor will have to take permission from the divisional board before allowing him/her in. “Students know the time it takes to travel to the centre, so they must ensure they leave home well in advance. If there is an exceptional case, we’ll ensure the student is not at loss,” said Borse.
 
 (Inputs by Swati Shinde Gole)
 
 
