Remember Sylvester Stallone’s Rocky? If you do then you also remember Rocky’s coach. The quiet, serious and no nonsense guy who toiled day and night inside a hot and sweaty gym, training one boxer after the other.   is no different.

 The man from Guwahati has been coaching boxers for 26 years. He worked at the Sports Authority of India (SAI) centres in Shillong and Dimapur before he started imparting his skills at Netaji Subhas Regional Centre in Guwahati — the place where Shiva Thapa used to train — from 2008. Here he has been training junior boxers — 34 at present — twice daily along with his deputy Abhishek Sha and it is he who should be given the credit for   becoming a boxer in the first place. 
 
 The girl from Golaghat district began learning kick   in the beginning. She was not the first in the family though. Her elder twin sisters — Licha and Lima — were also kick boxers and represented their state at national age-group levels but have not taken it up as a career. But for Lovlina, boxing was her first love and she was always on the lookout for an opportunity. And it came within a few months after she started learning kick boxing. SAI was holding a trial at her school, Barpathar Girls High School, and Lovlina wasted no time in going there and showing her skills. It was here that Boro saw her, selected her and then started training. It was 2012.
 
 Cut to 2018, she is all set to represent India at the Commonwealth Games to be held at Gold Coast in the 69kg category. She has been selected for the prestigious event on the back of some brilliant performances in the recent months — gold at India Open, bronze at Asian Championships in Vietnam and bronze at President’s Cup in Astana. Despite all this success she is not thinking about a   medal yet and just wants to give off her best in Australia, where she will be facing some of the world’s best.
 
 “Kazakhstan’s Valentina Khalzova beat me at the Asian Championships and she will be my biggest challenge at CWG. Sandy Ryan from England will be another tough opponent,” said Lovlina, who is currently training at Indira Gandhi Indoor Stadium in New Delhi, alongwith the other boxers selected for the Commonwealth Games. Irrespective of how she performs, her coaches are really proud of her.
 
 Chief women’s coach  , who has been with her from the sub-junior days, said, “Her co-ordination has improved and so has her straight punches. But her biggest positive is that she can adapt well with the situation and perform accordingly.”
 
 Sandhya Gurung, who is part of the coaching team, also complimented her attitude. “She is a very hard worker and always immersed in boxing,” said Gurung.
 
 As for her parents, they could not have been happier. Her father Tiken Borgohain, a small-scale businessman, and mother Mamoni, have struggled a lot financially but still support her in every possible way. Sadly, neither of them has seen their daughter fight live but for the moment, they just want to see Lovlina finish on the podium. 
 
 “Since she has always been very tall, her friends in school used to make fun of her but it’s her height that has helped her become the boxer she is today, and hopefully, she will win a medal in Australia,” said Tiken.
 
 Abhishek Sha, who has been associated with Lovlina from 2014, already has his eyes on the Tokyo Olympic Games. “When I first came here, I started training both Lovlina and Jamuna Boro with one aim in mind and that is to see them succeed at the Olympics,” said Sha.
 
 Even though Jamuna Boro has not made the cut for this year’s Commonwealth Games, she has been in good form winning bronze at the Elite Women Nationals held in Rohtak and also at the India Open this year and along with Lovlina, has made their coaches highly proud. If Padum Boro is to be believed, Lovlina has all the arsenal in her armoury that is needed to go a step farther. 
 
 “She has a fierce upper cut. That’s what sets her apart inside the ring,” said the senior coach, before getting busy with his pupils once again.
 
 
