NAGPUR: With 23 deaths, Maharashtra stood second in   in the country in 2017 after Madhya Pradesh (25), but its   is steady at 86 in   and its buffer.

 The latest report by Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun, titled ‘Long-term monitoring of tigers, co-predators and prey species in TATR & adjoining landscape’, under Phase IV monitoring, estimates presence of 86 tigers covering an area of 1,727 sq km. WII has been monitoring this landscape intensively for over four years. The report was submitted to PCCF (wildlife) AK Misra last week.
 
 During annual monitoring and camera trapping (February-July 2017) survey, with sampling effort of 8,016 trap nights, 50 adult individual tigers were photographed in the core area exclusively, 19 individuals in the buffer area of TATR, while six individuals were using both, core and buffer area, says the survey.
 
 The objective of the Phase IV monitoring was to estimate the minimum number of tigers and leopards in the reserve using capture-recapture sampling, and density estimation of prey base using distance sampling. “We placed 334 camera traps in the core and buffer areas of TATR following a sampling grid of 2 sq km in four blocks. In each sampling block, camera traps were active for 20-25 days. The numbers were recorded during 120 days of camera trapping survey with sampling effort of 8,016 trap nights,” said Dr Bilal Habib, scientist with WII.
 
 Tiger density per 100 sq km based on spatially explicit capture-recapture (SECR) model was 5.82 in TATR. If last three years figures are considered, the   population is confined to 86-88 in core and buffer.
 
 “This only indicates that park’s tiger capacity has reached a saturation point, and unless Tadoba is expanded or three villages (Kolsa, Palasgaon and Rantalodi) inside the core are relocated, the number will mostly remain steady,” says TATR field director Mukul Trivedi.
 
 “The tiger population in TATR connects other populations in Vidarbha, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh. Hence, forests outside PAs and corridors need to be strengthened for long-term tiger conservation,” says honorary wildlife warden Uday Patel.
 
 The report states that in order to estimate prey density, 50 line transects in core area and 63 line transects in buffer area were sampled 3-7 times during the sampling period in January 2017, with a total walking effort of 700km (core) and 829km (buffer).
 
 During the sampling, overall 834 animal or bird groups were sighted. The minimum area used and daily activity pattern for each species was studied using camera-trapping data.
 
 The survey also reveals that total prey density of individual prey densities in the core area is 33.49 per sq km. In the core, the density of langurs was highest (9.89 per sq km)) followed by chital (6.69) and wild boar (3.97).
 
 Interestingly, in the buffer region, the density of wild boar (11.82) was found to be highest followed by langur (11.10), chital (11.09) and nilgai (5.22).
 
 “Each photograph obtained from the camera trap data contains time and date of capture. This information was used to evaluate population activity of species,” says Habib.
 
 
