Kanyakumari: It has been more than 30 days since their kin and friends from Vallavilai coastal village have heard anything about the 70 fishermen who set sail to the deep seas well ahead of Cyclone Ockhi in six boats. This includes 33 villagers of Vallavilai and 37 others from other districts and states who had gone fishing in boats from Vallavilai. Many villagers and church authorities of Vallavilai and nearby villages came to a conclusion that they would not return as they did not come until Christmas. St Mary’s Church at Vallavilai and churches in nearby coastal villages had even conducted a Holy Mass to pray for the souls of the more than 150 fishermen who are dead or feared dead. Meanwhile, fixing December 31 as deadline, activists, churches and families of the missing fishermen were demanding death certificate and death benefits for those families. When the five-member committee of the Home Ministry came to Vallavilai on Thursday, Shirley told the officials that their men are still alive and are waiting for help. Since four of her relatives including her brother John Bright, 32, are still missing she asked the government to expedite the search. Fellow villagers and affected families from other villages too were agitated over what she said as this gave way for officials to have a second thought at issuing death certificates to missing persons, at this stage. Kin and friends of John Bright took the lead to go in search of the missing brethren one last time. P Dickson, 33, of the village said that they consulted with the church to get permission from the government to conduct a search for the second time. As there was some hesitation the families and friends decided to carry out the search on their own. They mobilised close to Rs 12 lakh needed for the six boats to go in search of the missing. “Last time eight boats from the village went in search of missing boats on December 12. On December 22 they returned with two rescued boats with all the 22 men in them alive. It gave us hope for the second search,” said P Soosai who went for the first search. On Friday evening 34 men Soosai’s brother Alexander set sail from the Cochin Fisheries Harbour. “This includes four of them who have been part of the previous 11 day search, to ensure that the new search teams did not search in the same places where they had earlier searched,” Dickson said. Last time the search team started from Cochin and went about 700 nautical miles in the North West, then 100 nautical miles in the South West and 200 nautical miles in the South East before travelling 200 nautical miles in the North East to reach Cochin, where the search began. “This time they are going in the South West from Lakshadweep Islands,” said Dickson. The team has left with an extra stock of food, supplies such as diesel and technicians to mend the faulty boats and return to Cochin on January 5. It is the last ray of hope to trace the missing men.