Nagpur: Despite clear directives from the Bombay High Court’s Aurangabad bench, the Maharashtra government has failed to frame rules for issuing witness summons to professional doctors to avoid unnecessary wastage of time. The startling revelation came after the State Law and Judiciary Department expressed its inability to provide information on any competent authority that would make such rules.

 The department’s reply came in response to the queries sought under RTI Act by Dr Indrajit Khandekar, professor and in-charge of Clinical Forensic Medicine Unit (CFMU) at Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (MGIMS).
 
 HC had expressed the need to make such rules so that the medicos should be allowed to perform their primary duty of attending the patient rather than wasting time in the court as a witness. The directives were provided by a division bench comprising justices Indira Jain and Arun Chaudhari while hearing a case of Sanjay Shridhar Andhare versus State of Maharashtra on October 15, 2015.
 
 The RTI query was in pursuance to serious concerns expressed by the court over having a strict framework for issuing summons to medical professionals. The judges had observed that there are no fixed guidelines for issuing witness summons to professional doctors in the criminal manual, since the medical professionals have prior duty towards their patients. “Court hearings may not take place on the date due to holidays or adjournments. It becomes immense wastage of time for the doctors, who can’t attend their patients, when they are summoned as witness in proceedings subject to such uncertainty,” they had observed. 
 
 Dr Khandekar filed his queries on March 3 last year, which was transferred to the Home Department after a week. After sitting on it for a year, the queries were later transferred to the Public Health Department which eventually sent it back to the Law and Judiciary. Ultimately, it too failed to furnish the information about the competent authority framing rules for this purpose.
 
 Dr Khandekar, who has been fighting over this issue since 2016, has raised this matter before chief minister Devendra Fadnavis demanding strict action over such reckless behaviour from the state authorities.
 
 (With inputs from Subodh Sagar)
 
 
