NEW DELHI: Stung by the farm distress that has hurt BJP, the   tried to assuage farmers, promising remunerative prices by fixing minimum support price (MSP) of upcoming kharif crops at 50% higher than the cost of production, and also developing allied sectors like fisheries and animal husbandry.

 
 Finance minister Arun Jaitley’s promised increase in MSP is a break from the incremental approach in the past that was dictated by concerns that large jumps translate into higher food inflation that over time spreads to other sectors too. But the farm discontent witnessed in the Gujarat election — where a problem of plenty rather than failed crops hurt BJP — may have changed the party’s thinking.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 The Budget, however, does more than rely on MSP. It looks to strengthen rural markets, expand irrigation network and extend farm credit to ensure higher productivity, better market play and diversification.
 
 Talking of a “paradigm shift” from the earlier agriculture policy which remained “productioncentric”, the Budget spoke about focusing on value addition and tapping fisheries and livestock and promised to launch ‘Operation Green’ to promote Farmer Producers’ Organisations (FPOs). This will connect vegetable growers with consumers. Besides allocating additional funds for ongoing schemes and creating new funds for measures like upgrading 22,000 rural ‘haats’ (gramin agricultural markets), the government proposed to hike the farm credit target for the next fiscal by 10% from Rs 10 lakh crore to Rs 11 lakh crore.
 
 Calling the move on MSP a “historic decision”, Jaitley tasked the Niti Aayog with arriving at a “fool-proof” institutional mechanism so that farmers get full benefit of the announced support price. The Aayog will consult central and state governments and put in place a mechanism to ensure procurement work properly. “Increasing MSP is not adequate and it is more important that farmers should get full benefit of the announced MSP,” Jaitley said.
 
 The Aayog’s mechanism can either be direct procurement at MSP or by paying farmers the difference between MSP and market price as Madhya Pradesh does through ‘Bhavantar Bhugtan Yojana’ (price deficiency payment scheme).
 
 Fixing MSP of crops at 50% more than the cost of production was a promise of the BJP manifesto and is a major demand of farmers’ organisations. Though it is not clear which formula the government will use while fixing MSPs in future, Jaitley’s speech hints at using the same formula which the government had used to arrive at MSPs of rabi crops for the current crop year (July-June).
 
 Jaitley also announced tax incentive for companies registered as   for promoting post-harvest activities. As far as ‘Gramin Agricultural Markets’ (GrAMs) are concerned, the government decided to link them with the e-NAM platform and exempt them from regulations of APMCs (regulated ‘Mandis’) to eliminate agents.
 
