Saisharan, who shot to fame after being part of the popular reality show, Super Singer on Vijay TV, has gone on to become a professional playback singer, trying his hand with many young music directors. But not many know his Carnatic side. “Carnatic music is my home ground,” begins  , adding, “I started learning Carnatic music when I was five years old and did my arangetram at eight. After a few years, I gradually started drifting towards film music. I am happy to get opportunities to perform Carnatic concerts.”

 Saisharan says that becoming a playback singer was an accident. “I started my playback singing career when I was 18 and it’s been seven years now. But I must admit that I haven’t had a great run in playback singing. I am still waiting for a good opportunity and breakthrough. It has been a learning phase for me. The biggest challenge about playback singing is getting the right break at the right time.” He adds, “Initially, I found it difficult to bring out the emotions in the song. If you are able to make the audience empathise with the number, you are successful.” 
 
 Saisharan’s latest song is in Vijay Sethupathi’s upcoming release Oru Nalla Naal Pathu Solren, which has music by Justin Prabhakaran. “I’ve sung a song with   Gandhi. Justin guided me throughout the song and gave me freedom to experiment.”
 
 The singer believes that it is extremely difficult for a playback singer to survive in the field today. He says, “Karthik is probably the last singer who could sing most of the songs in his time. After that,   got a huge chunk of songs for five years. The story after that has been different. There are many singers in the picture today and there is a massive competition. You can’t survive exclusively as a singer and hence, have to try your hand in different industries and across different platforms (online, independent albums). The lifespan of a singer’s career has gotten shorter.”
 But Saisharan is thankful that he has experimented a bit. “I would like to be looked at as an artist who can perform everything. My only aim is to sing for AR Rahman sir,” he says.
 
 
