GHAZIABAD: Fed up with complaints against three private firms that have contracts for providing municipal services in  , the Ghaziabad Development Authority ( ) has started preparing a detailed plan to provide an effective solid waste management in the township.

 Indirapuram generates 150 metric tonnes of civic waste on a daily basis and the job of solid waste management in the township has been outsourced to three private companies for which GDA pays Rs 3 crore annually to them. But in recent times, the residents and RWAs, while expressing disappointment over the manner in which solid waste management is carried out, demanded that the development agency look for more professional companies to carry out the job. 
  
  
 Officials said on Wednesday that the GDA will shortly invite bids for the solid waste management in Indirapuram township and may hike maintenance charges.
 
 “We will shortly float tenders inviting interested companies for an effective solid waste management in Indirapuram township,” Hira Lal Singh, executive engineer in-charge of Indirapuram, GDA, told TOI. “The work will entail door-to-door waste collection, segregation and transportation, and for that we are under the process of collecting details about the nature of waste generated under the number of heads in Indirapuram township,” he added.
 
 According to GDA, Indirapuram has a population of 3,75,000 and 75,620 households generate wastes on a daily basis. The township in total generates 150 metric tons of waste daily, of which civic waste accounts to 113.50 metric tonnes, industrial and commercial waste is 19 metric tonnes, waste generated by road sweeping accounts to 7.50 metric tonnes, waste from gardens and horticulture accounts to 6 metric tons and silt waste accounts to 4 metric tonnes.
 
 “The waste generation break-up that we have collected over the last several months will enable us to manage waste in a more effective manner,” said Singh. But, this is going to come at a price as the development agency is planning to hike the maintenance charge. It’s expected that the maintenance charge will be hiked to Rs 5 per square feet from the existing Rs 3.40 per square feet.
 
 Federation of Association of Apartment Owners ( ) has welcomed the move, but have expressed reservations over the GDA’s move to hike the maintenance charge. 
 
 “These three firms managing waste in the township for the past five years, have not done their job properly and there is a lot of resentment among residents, so GDA’s move to float fresh tenders is welcomed,” said Alok Kumar, president, Fed AOA. The Fed AOA had earlier filed a complaint with the GDA vice chairperson over shoddy waste management in Indirapuram, following which the firms were fined Rs 1.1 crore.
 
 However, he said as compared to Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation, it is already high by four times. “The GDA over the years has been increasing the maintenance charge at the rate of 10% per year and it would be unfair on their part to hike it any further,” he added. 
 
 “In addition to this, the GDA has still not been able to acquire the land for a designated dumping ground and the city’s waste is being dumped unscientifically on Pratap Vihar dumping ground which is close to Indirapuram, and it has become a nightmare for residents,” Kumar said.
 
 
