GURUGRAM:   — whose houses and shops have been listed in the report prepared by MCG following a survey of structures located within the 300-metre area around the   ammunition depot in Gurugram — have been asked to file their claims and objections, if any, by May 15.

 The municipal corporation has identified a total of 5,978 illegal properties, including residential and commercial units, which are located within the 300-metre restricted zone. 
 
 The survey report, which has been published on the official website of the district administration, includes all the details of the properties — owners’ names, addresses, total size and floor distribution of the properties, as well as their usage (commercial or residential).
 
 Following the report, in a notice issued by deputy commissioner   under Section 9 of the Works of Defence Act, 1903, the administration has asked property owners to file their objections with regard to the details about property types or ownership, among others, by May 15. The claims/objections have to be filed at the district revenue office.
 
 “We have published the details of the survey, along with plans and layouts of the properties (on the website). People can submit their claims and objections within the stipulated time. Once the objections and claims are verified, the process to evaluate compensations will start,” said Singh.
 
 The notice further states that all the constructions within the 300-metre area are unauthorised as per the provisions of Works of Defence Act. Further, in future, no one will carry out any kind of construction in the zone without a written permission from the commanding officer.
 
 The DC further said the state government would send an estimate for compensation to be paid to the oustees to the defence ministry for an approval. “Once the compensation amount is finalised, demolition will start to clear the 300-metre restricted zone around the ammunition zone,” he added.
 
 Sources said the authorities had already started calculating compensation amount based on the MCG survey report, which includes details taken from the property tax records.
 
 The MCG has drawn up a three-month-long demolition drive following an order from the   and Haryana high court. In the last one month, around 50 properties, which were located outside the 300-metre area but within the 900-metre diameter around the ammunition depot, have either been demolished or sealed.
 
 But, on Thursday, MCG officials had to stop its demolition drive midway owing to stiff opposition from local residents. They started pelting stones at four junior engineers and other MCG officials when they went to raze illegal structures in an area close to Old Gaushala Road.
 
 MCG officials faced stiff resistance from local people even in the presence of a force of 500 policemen on Monday too.
 
 TOI had earlier reported that the Punjab and Haryana high court had directed the deputy commissioner of Gurugram to issue notices to those who built illegal buildings within 300-metre area around the ammunition depot.
 
 
