THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The legendary dancing couple of India-   have been selected for this year’s prestigious Nishagandhi Puraskaram, instituted by state Tourism department to honour eminent personalities in the field of music and dance.

 Doyens of Bharatanatyam, the Dhananjayans will be the sixth recipient of the award after Mohiniyattom exponent Bharati Shivaji, music composer Ilaiyaraaja, classical dancer Mrinalini Sarabhai, Hindustani musician Lalith J Rao and   exponent Dr Padma Subrahmanyam.
 
 The award will be presented during   Tourism’s signature annual event - ‘Nishagandhi Dance Festival’, to be held at Nishagandhi Auditorium on Kanakakkunnu Palace premises here from January 20 to 26.
 
 Dhananjayans, the trendsetters in the field of Bharatanatyam through choreographic innovations and creativity within the traditional repertoire, have been chosen after the department’s decision to leave the award exclusively for dancers. Though musicians were being considered for the award on alternative years, the removal of classical music from the festival (to restore the event to its original form as a dance festival to showcase classical dances of India) has now put an end to the practice.
 
 The senior most disciples of the legendary Rukmini Devi and alumnae of the famed Kalakshetra, the Dhananjayans founded Bharatakalanjali in 1968, an institution which seeks to promote and develop Indian art and culture by offering the best Gurukul system of training combined with modern approach. They also collaborate with western choreographers and ballet dancers, while retaining the traditional essence of Bharatanatyam, Kathakali and other dance forms.
 
 The Dhananjayans are also the recipient of several titles and recognitions including International Naatya Award, instituted by the American Association of Indian Dancers (AAID), Kalaimamani, Central Sangeet Natak Akademi, Kerala State Sangeetha Nataka Akademi’s Fellowship, and Nritya Choodamani.
 
 Meanwhile, this year’s Nishagandhi Festival will showcase performances in Kathak, Mohinitattam, Kuchipudi, Bharatanatyam, Odissi and Manipuri by noted dancers and institutions. They include NADAM (  and Music) featuring Murali Mohan and Nandini Mehta (Kathak) and Deepika Reddy (Kuchipudi).
 
 Among other performers are Parshwanath Upadhye, one of India’s best male Bharatanatyam dancers who hails from Belgaum, Alarmel Valli (Bharatanatyam), Vidya Pradeep (Mohiniyattam), Deepika Reddy (Kuchipudi), Parshwanath Upadhye (Bharatanatyam), Shama Bhate (Kathak) and   (Kuchipudi).
 
 Besides NADAM, the institutions taking part in the festival include Kerala Kalamandalam, Rudrakshya Foundation and Bhubaneswar and Jawaharlal Nehru Manipur Dance Academy (JNMDA), Imphal. A ‘Kathakali Fest’ will also be held simultaneously on these days at Kanakakkunnu Palace Auditorium.
 
