GOLD COAST: The recent arrest of a journalist from the subcontinent, for an alleged human smuggling offence, has led to a heightened alert in Australia ahead of the Commonwealth Games. Immigration authorities are selecting random journalists travelling to Australia to report on the Games.

 
 
 
 On Sunday, the Australian immigration officials almost stopped a journalist at the boarding gate at the Singapore airport minutes before his departure to Brisbane. As the passengers packed the terminal to board the Singapore Airlines flight, came an announcement over the public address system calling for the  .
 
 The Indian was asked to move to the announcer’s desk, and was then told that the Australian government wanted to recheck the authenticity of his passport and visa.
 
 
 
 The lady at the counter soon got in touch with the official in Australia who in turn asked her to cross-verify the passenger. “Why are you travelling to Australia? Are you a spectator?” the airline staffer was prompted to ask. When the staffer relayed back that the traveller was a journalist, more questions followed.
 
 The staffer then got in touch with a second immigration official in Australia who now did a tele-interview with the journalist. “The Australian government wants to know why you are travelling to Australia,” said the airline staff before connecting the telephone to the official who went through another set of questions asking about the number of years in service, the number of days of stay during the current trip and the disciplines the reporter was planning to cover.
 
 Asked why this sudden scrutiny, after being granted a visa by the Department of Immigration and Border Protection as early as November 20, 2017 to report on the Commonwealth Games, the official remarked, “Just that it’s your lucky day today,” before giving the go-ahead for boarding which had already commenced.
 
 The screening of this journalist continued on arrival in Brisbane after being ushered through the dedicated lane for   participants. “We need to check your passport again,” the official at the counter said before the reporter was escorted inside by another official for more checks. Three journalists travelling from Bangladesh were also subjected to extra layer of checking. The new officer continued from where his colleague left off in Singapore and now confronted the journalist in a more probing manner. He even asked about the dates during which the athletics events will be held at the Games.
 
