Panaji: The directorate of   (DoE) has reserved 10% of seats in government-aided   for allotment as per its own discretion.

 This move by the state government is part of a framework of new guidelines for admissions to schools. The admission criteria drawn up is nearly identical to the earlier one issued almost a decade ago, except that students living within a five kilometer radius of a school will now get upto 60% weightage in the admission process. Also, unlike the old guidelines, students of school staff and management, children of single parents and of transferrable employees will no longer get preference in the admission process.
 
 For the Panaji-based schools that recently shifted to the Cujira school complex, the radius will be calculated as per the original location of the school. 
 
 School managements have been told that they can allot 20% of the total seats in the school as per their discretion, but cannot collect excess fees for these seats. This is as per the earlier guidelines.
 
 DoE has also worked out different distance criteria for students at the primary, middle and secondary school levels for admissions. At the primary school level, students who live within a kilometer radius of the institute will earn 60% marks in the admission process right away. At the middle school level, children living within three kilometers and, at the secondary school level, those living within five kilometers of the school will get 60% marks in the admission process.
 
 A child will earn an additional 10 marks if his or her sibling is already studying in the same school and if parents are ex-students of the school, this will add another 10 marks to the child’s score. Both these criteria were existing as per the old admission guidelines. School managements have also been given the discretion to frame their own specific criteria, which will get upto 20% weightage. This provision was also available as per the old guidelines.
 
 The preference for students who have excelled in sports and at extra-curricular activities and who are children of ex-servicemen will also continue.
 
 ‘The headmaster of the school has to identify the habitation/localities around the school jurisdiction, of their distance, and announce on the school notice board in advance. A provisional list should be announced calling objections from parents/guardiance before finalising the admission list,’ the circular by the director of education, GP Bhat, states.
 
 Parents will have to produce a residence certificate, election card, ration card, telephone bill, property tax receipt of their residence and aadhar card for admissions.
 
 GFX
 
 On Your Marks
 
 Distance criteria for admissions
 
 Primary school
 
 0 to 1km - 60 marks
 
 Above 1 to 2km - 50 marks
 
 Above 2 to 3km - 30 marks
 
 Above 3 to 5km - 20 marks
 
 Above 5km - 0
 
 Middle school
 
 0 to 3km - 60 marks
 
 Above 3 to 5km - 50 marks
 
 Above 5 to 7km - 3 marks
 
 Above 7 to 9km - 20 marks
 
 Above 9km - 0 marks
 
 Secondary School
 
 0 to 5km - 60 marks
 
 Above 5 to 7km - 50 marks
 
 Above 7 to 9km - 30 marks
 
 Above 9 to 11km - 20 marks
 
 Above 11km - 0 marks
 
 
