BENGALURU: The much-hyped rally of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, ahead of the assembly  , was expected to make a special mention of the inter-state Mahadayi water dispute issue, but it turned out to be much ado about nothing on Sunday.

 In his nearly hour-long address, Modi did not mention Mahadayi even once, though he spoke about irrigation schemes and farmers. “The PM’s irrigation schemes are helping farmers. We work to reform, perform and transform. We will solve every small problem you face,” Modi said.
 
 
 The PM also said that farmers who grow vegetables and fruits like tomatoes, onions and potatoes (TOP) are the priority of the government. “You all know how people used to wait in queues for urea, they even faced lathis. Urea is a portfolio handled by this city’s son (H N Ananth Kumar). And therefore, there has been record production by farmers this time. The kind of sensitivity we have shown the farmers, has the Congress government ever shown that?’’ Modi asked to a loud cheer Farmers from Mumbai-Karnataka region, who had hoped to hear Modi speak on Mahadayi, looked frustrated after the PM left. Moreover, as Modi touched upon irrigation schemes and farmers’ suicides, it was expected that he would refer to Mahadayi. However, most part of his address focused on attacking the Congress.
 
 
 Ahead of Modi’s rally, Karnataka   on Sunday asked him to “find time” to resolve the Mahadayi issue with neighbouring Goa. “Narendra Modi, I am glad you are making time to visit the country’s startup and  , Namma Bengaluru today. On behalf of my people, I urge you to find the time for Karnataka’s drinking water needs and help us resolve the Mahadayi dispute #NammaKarnatakaFirst,” the CM had tweeted.
 
 “Welcome to Karnataka. You may be the son of Gujarat but you are PM of the entire country. I hope you will address the long-pending Mahadayi issue and intervene. This at least will bring some good news for the farmers of  ,” JD(S) president H D Kumaraswamy had said.
 
 On January 25, various Kannada organizations and pro-farmer organizations had observed a  , demanding the PM’s intervention in the issue.
 
