NEW DELHI: Spreading its net wider, the CBI questioned Allahabad Bank managing director and CEO Usha Ananthasubramanian, who was shunted out of   a few months ago, and ICICI Bank executive director N S Kannan on Tuesday, even as the scale of the alleged fraud committed by   and   became bigger. 

  The PNB fraud, CBI claims, has snowballed to Rs 12,636 crore, with the bank reporting more LOUs/FLCs worth Rs 1,251 crore issued to Gitanjali group of companies. Two PNB general managers - Nehal Ahad and Vimlesh Kumar - and five statutory auditors are also being questioned by CBI. 
 
  Ananthasubramanian was MD and CEO of PNB from August 14, 2015 to May 5, 2017, the time when senior bank officials, including retired deputy manager  , issued letters of undertaking and foreign letters of credit to Modi and Choksi on the basis of which the two raised funds from other banks. 
 
 Between 2011 and 2013, Ananthasubramanian was executive director of the country's second-largest public sector lender. Incidentally, Allahabad Bank had discounted LOUs of around Rs 4,000 crore issued by PNB.
 
 The Allahabad Bank CEO is also chairperson of the Indian Banks' Association (IBA), the industry lobby group. Last week, she had said there was an urgent need for banks to revisit their risk management system and plug loopholes.
 
 CBI officials said Ananthasubramanian was not being questioned as an "accused" but was called to Mumbai to seek clarifications as to how such large transactions took place and escaped the surveillance system in the bank and whether audit reports had red-flagged these transactions.
 
 Sources said she was also asked how the PNB top management ignored irregularities in big-ticket transactions involving Modi and Choksi and why collaterals were not properly verified. CBI suspects that the audit reports of PNB would have flagged the fraudulent transactions but the bank brass ignored them.
 
 On the examination of ICICI Bank's executive director, the CBI claimed it had recovered documents during searches earlier this month which showed that a consortium of 31 private and public sector banks led by the private lender had extended loans of around Rs 5,700 crore to Choksi's Gitanjali group of companies.
 
 ICICI Bank, which leads the consortium, has an exposure of Rs 773 crore through working capital or short-term loans, while PNB, which was also part of this consortium, has an exposure of around Rs 900 crore. Other banks in the consortium include Corporation Bank, Bank of Baroda, Vijaya Bank, IDBI, Syndicate Bank, Canara Bank and others with amounts ranging from Rs 29 crore to Rs 300 crore.
 
  Sources said Kannan was asked about the terms of the loans, documents provided by Choksi, financial profile of Gitanjali group as verified by the consortium and whether banks knew how the loans were actually being used. ICICI Bank issued a statement which said: “We are working capital lenders to the Gitanjali group along with several other banks in the consortium. Our exposure to the group of companies (owned by Mehul Choksi) is not the largest... in the consortium. We are fully cooperating with the investigating agencies.” 
 
 The bank denied having any exposure to Nirav Modi’s firms. “We have not issued any LoU nor do we have any buyer’s credit exposure against LoUs with respect to the Nirav Modi group of companies as well as the Gitanjali group,” it said.
 
 
