JAIPUR: Three trucks illegally transporting banned sand (bajri) were seized in a joint action by mining department and the police in Shivdaspura area of the city on Sunday morning.

 Shivdaspura SHO Deepak   said that trucks were intercepted at a toll, following which they were taken to the police station for further enquiry. The police said that mining department is likely to carry out the follow up investigation into the matter.
 
 Khandelwal said that prima facie it seems that sands were being transporting from Tonk district and were to be smuggled into the city.
 
 This is second such incident a month where trucks carrying sand which has been banned in the state, been   into the city limits. Earlier on April1, Muhana police had seized seven trucks illegally transporting banned sand (bajri). 
 
 A senior official said that it is suspected that mining mafia is swiftly expanding its base in the city. “The ban has shot up the demand for the sand in the city, there are many under-construction sites that have been lying in limbo due to shortage of sand. There may be mafia supplying sand on demand,” the official said.
 
 The mining department will now track the reason where it was to be supplied. The police said that they have been keeping a vigil at places where trucks carrying and enter into the city. “These trucks usually enter into the area in night, covered with long sheets to hide sand,” the official said 
 
 According to one estimate, the state has suffered an approximate revenue loss of over Rs 150 crore in the last few months, according to mining department sources.
 
 As per estimates, the mafia excavates sand from the river bed in Tonk and   districts and transports 800 to 1,000 trucks daily in violation of the apex court order.
 
 As sand commands an exorbitant price in the grey market, these trucks are overloaded beyond capacity. The incidents of violence have been reported across Sawai Madhopur, Dausa, and   where locals staged protest against the mining Mafia which continues to transport sand during night time.
 
 
