KOCHI:   witnesses a minimum of five fire incidents every day and yet it has only a handful of fire hydrants for the entire district to douse these fires, putting people and property at risk. Last year, there were 1,970 fires, while in the past five months 1,137 fires were reported in residential and commercial localities. The department of fire and rescue services has only five active hydrants for urgent replenishment of water in Ernakulam.

 A fire hydrant is basically a pump usually seen in streets that is connected to four water connection points, and can draw water from a main pipe when there is a fire. Now, the department has approached the district collector to set up 101 fire hydrants in various parts of the district, realizing the precarious situation. The exact number of fire hydrants has not been tabulated by the department.
  
  
 Department personnel said that fire hydrants in various parts of the district became obsolete over a period of time due to the lack of maintenance. To supply water to a hydrant, a separate line is required and water in the pipeline must be pumped at high pressure (at least 250 litres per minute) to allow water to reach the valve.
 
 “There were 32 fire hydrants under club station limit years ago. But, we could not find a single one during the inspection carried out last year. We have requested that fire hydrants must be installed at busy junctions like MG Road, markets, Broadway, Marine Drive and other areas. If a fire occurs at busy junctions and our tanks is emptied, we will struggle to procure water amid heavy traffic. If there is a fire hydrant, we can douse fire instantly. At present, we collect water from the pond at   temple,” said TP Gopakumar, who is the SHO-incharge at Club Road station.
 
 Old fire hydrants are there in Aluva, Perumbavoor and Muvattupuzha. “There were 13 fire hydrants along the sides of the road in   town. When the width of the roads increased, fire hydrants were not restored properly. Now only a few exists. Though the fire hydrants in highrises serve the purpose, it is limited. When water tank in highrises are emptied, we will have to get water from an outside source. But no such issues arise when we have a fire hydrant at hand,” said Sinoj A C, a fireman from Aluva fire station.
 
 There is also a fire hydrant in front of the water authority office in Perumbavoor. “It is necessary to install fire hydrants as water scarcity is rising in the district. If a fire starts and water availability is scare in nearby areas, fire force will have to travel more to get water. This will definitely increase casualties,” said a fire officer at Perumbavoor fire station.
 
 
