PATNA: The three kidnappings that took place in the state capital in the last 21 days have certain similarities. Police investigation has made it clear that no professional criminal gang was involved in any of the three cases. Besides, people known to the victims’ families committed the crime for money.

 In Zeyad Arif’s (14) kidnapping case on Tuesday, the teen’s neighbour,   Ashraf (30) provided vital information to kidnapper   (30), the owner of an event management firm. Waqar has known Zeyad’s family for several years and is aware of the wealth his father has.
 
 Shashi, who is under a debt of Rs 22 lakh, and his accomplices kidnapped Zeyad while he was going to catch his school bus in   for a ransom of Rs 1.5 crore. He told police school-going children were easy targets and he had been planning the crime for a month in order to get rid of the debt.
 
 Even Saurabh Raj (6), the son of contractor Santosh Baitha, was kidnapped by two bike-borne men from outside his school at Jaganpura under the Ram Krishna Nagar police station area on January 29. However, the minor was recovered from the Sonepur railway station the same night even before the kidnappers could make any ransom call.
 
 According to Patna SSP Manu Maharaaj, Saurabh’s kidnapping took place due to information provided by a close associate of his family. “We have identified the kidnappers as well as the close associate of the victim’s family. They will soon be arrested,” the SSP said.
 
 In the Raunak kidnapping and murder case, the main conspirator,   alias Vikrant was a neighbour of the victim’s family and owned a small gift shop.
 
  (14), the son of property dealer Sudhir Kumar, was kidnapped by Vicky on the pretext of filling an examination form. He was on way to catch his school bus in Maurya Vihar Colony under the Agamkuan police station area on January 17. He was murdered the same day and his body recovered from Vicky’s shop after two days.
 
 Vicky, who was under a debt of Rs 3.8 lakh due to a failed footwear business, had demanded a ransom of Rs 50 lakh. He did not have any criminal background.
 
 
