NEW DELHI: A five-judge constitution bench of the   on Tuesday decided to weigh the correctness of contradictory verdicts by two three-judge benches on land acquisition and compensation, which saw another three-judge bench questioning "judicial discipline and propriety".

 The first decision in the Pune Municipal Corporation case was delivered in 2014 by a bench of Justices R M Lodha, Madan B Lokur and  . On February 8, a three-judge bench of Justices Arun Mishra, Adarsh K Goel and M Shantanagoudar by 2:1 majority in ' ' case termed the Pune Municipal Corporation verdict 'per incurium' (decision rendered without referring to correct law or facts).
 
 On February 21, another three-judge bench of Justices Madan B Lokur, Kurian Joseph and Deepak Gupta questioned the "judicial discipline and propriety" of a three-judge bench (headed by Justice Arun Mishra) overturning another three-judge bench's verdict.
 
 At the forefront of questioning and opposing the February 8 verdict was former attorney general  , who appeared for land owners against the Haryana government. Interestingly, in May 2015, Rohatgi had appeared for Haryana government as the AG in one of the cases listed on Tuesday before the five-judge bench (Haryana vs Maharana Pratap Charitable Trust).
 
 Rohatgi faced tough opposition from additional solicitor general Tushar Mehta and senior advocate P S Patwalia, who pointed out to the court that of the five issues decided in the 'Indore' case, three were not even touched by the verdict in the 'Pune' case. When Rohatgi questioned the propriety of a three-judge bench terming the verdict of a bench of same strength as 'per incurium', the constitution bench headed by CJI Dipak Misra made Rohatgi read two judgments where smaller benches had termed larger bench verdicts 'per incurium'. 
 
 However, the bench comprising   and Justices A K Sikri, A M Khanwilkar, D Y Chandrachud and Ashok Bhushan refused to dwell on the "judicial discipline and propriety" controversy that had whipped up much debate and settled the issue by saying it would examine both 'Indore' and 'Pune' verdicts and decide which of them was correct.
 
 "We think it appropriate to state, this bench shall consider all the aspects including the correctness of the decision rendered in Pune Municipal Corporation and the other judgments following the said decision as well as the judgment rendered in Indore Development Authority," it said.
 
 However, there will not be an early settlement of which of the judgments laid down the correct procedure for land acquisition, compensation and rehabilitation because the five-judge bench said it would commence hearing on this case after completing hearing on petitions challenging validity of Aadhaar, validity of immunity from prosecution to women in adultery cases, ban on entry of women in the age group of 10-50 years into   temple and validity of Section 377 of IPC.
 
 While Aadhaar itself will take a few more weeks for completion, the petition by eminent persons who have sought recognition of right to sexual preference of LGBTQ community is expected to take months given its sensitivity.
 
 
