In his first interview after the Yogi Adityanath government decided to hand over the   rape and assault case to the CBI, Bangarmau   MLA   spoke exclusively to Rohan Dua. He maintained that rape charges against him are fabricated despite the Wednesday evening FIR that was finally registered several months after the girl made the allegations. He, however, remained silent on the brutal attack on the survivor’s father on April 3 by his younger brother and aides. Excerpts...

 
 
 The rape charges of rape are fabricated. I am delighted with the transfer of case to the CBI which will reveal two things: Girl was tutored to build the rape case against me. As far as my arrest is concerned, I am going nowhere. Let the CBI take a call. I am open to narco or medical tests. Let CBI collect audio, video evidence and any witness's statements. I personally believe no rape took place in first or second case. But now let CBI or other agencies probe it. Why should I surrender before the CBI completes its probe?
 
 
 
 
 I was under tremendous pressure from media quarters that I was absconding. I was egged on by a section of media to appear there and prove my cooperation with the agency. I had not gone to surrender.
 
 
 
 The rape charges are fabricated. The girl’s mother on June 11, 2017, had reported her daughter's abduction at Makhi police station in Unnao and an FIR was registered on June 20. After that, the police rescued her from a house and rape charges were added too. Finally, when police recorded her statements under Section 164 CrPC, they dragged names of two women. But   never found their names. The girl’s family had a dispute with those women and thought I was involved in saving the two women — Shashi Singh and Nidhi Singh. Hence they included my name in the rape allegation as well.
 
 
 
 
 I have two daughters. I don’t want to say further. Let agency probe.
 
 
 
 
 Let me tell you there is dispute even in her certificates showing her as minor. In one rape, she has produced a certificate of a school from  , and in another from elsewhere. The police did not register a case because her allegations came as an after-thought and were cooked up.
 
 
 
 
 Death is unfortunate. But the April 3 fight was a dispute between the girl’s family and her cousins, resulting in a brawl. Now that police have booked my brother, I leave it to the court to decide his role.
 
 
 
 
 The girl’s uncle used to call me up. I never knew he was recording the conversations and deceiving me. I spoke to him and invited him to sort out their family differences with us. The police have the clip, let them analyse it. Her uncle dragged her into row and got her father involved in a brawl. They ran social media campaigns and distributed pamphlets, making my caricatures as  . I was only objecting to that.
 
 
 
 
 No one has so far. But I will respect their orders if there are any.
 
