JAIPUR: It was sad and hectic day for Rajasthan police as 36-year-old sub-inspector, Mahendra Chaudhary, died on the way to a hospital in Ahmedabad while curfew was imposed at   city of   district following fresh cases of violence.

 Police till Tuesday evening arrested almost 1,200 people across the state for arson, damaging public vehicle and property and also for rioting while nearly 175 FIRs were registered across the state by the state police. 
 
 Chaudhary again got a heart attack in Jodhpur in the morning on Tuesday when the family members decided to take him to a hospital in Mehsana in  . “After doctors in Mehsana declared him dead the family took him to Ahmedabad where too he was declared dead,” said a senior officer of the Rajasthan police headquarters. 
 
 Meanwhile, central para military forces were sent to Hindaun city in Karauli where members of upper caster in protest of Monday’s violence set ablaze houses of sitting   and former MLA of Hindaun. 
 
 On number of persons arrested and no of FIRs lodged, NRK Reddy, additional director general, law and order, talking to TOI, said, “At least 1,100 persons were arrested till the evening while almost 175 FIRs were registered at police stations across the state for rioting, arson, damaging public property and rioting. The work of lodging FIR is on and police has been asked to lodge every FIR of people who have witnessed any personal damage during the violence.” 
 
 Railway and RSRTC administration too had lodged cases for the damages done by the protesters during the SC/ST bandh. “We have evaluated the damages and loss and we have also lodged cases at Hindaun city police station were our buses were damaged and set on fire,” said an official of the RSRTC. 
 
 Officials of NWR have also lodged cases at   police station of Alwar where at least seven trains were halted when protesters pelted stones on the trains including Delhi-Jaipur Shatabdi express. 
 
 Meanwhile, extra police force was deployed at   city, Hindaun city, Alwar, Khairthal and other violence hit areas in the state. 
 
 Internet services were banned at districts including Alwar, Karauli, Sawai Madhopur district while in rest other states it was restored as no untoward incident was reported. 
 
 In Jaipur except a few incidents the day went off peacefully. The deployment of extra police force continued at areas including civil lines, jyoti Nagar and other areas. “Almost 100 people who were arrested for violence were sent to jail and at least 30 FIRs were lodged at various police stations.
 
 
