PATIALA: A 60-year-old man, who works as a property dealer in  , was kidnapped and later dropped by the accused after the victim’s family blatantly refused to pay a single penny of the   demanded.

 The victim,  , who was kidnapped from his office in the local urban estate area by the accused on Monday morning, was dropped by the kidnappers in the evening on the same day. He returned home unharmed.
 
 The accused had asked the victim to show them a house on rent and offered him to come along with them in their car. Rampal agreed but the accused kidnapped him and kept driving during which they demanded a ransom of Rs 10 lakh from the family of the victim.
 
 Rampal’s son,  , who also works with his father and answered the calls, said, “The accused asked me to bring Rs 10 lakh and get my father released. Initially, I was shocked to learn that my father was kidnapped. Then the accused handed over the phone to my father. He told me that he has been kidnapped and the accused were also carrying weapons with them. The accused snatched the phone from my father and again asked me to come with the ransom soon. They told me they will inform me the exact place. When they called up again, I clearly informed that I have no money and would not be able to pay the amount. I also told them I will inform the police if they did not set my father free.”
 
 SHO of the urban estate said, “The victim’s son Rajinder was with us when the accused kept calling him. We made attempts to trace the location of the car in which the kidnappers were travelling with Rampal. Alerts to some police checkposts were sent while policemen were deployed at several areas. The accused, however, dropped the victim near Ghagga unharmed. We are investigating the case but none of the accused has been arrested so far.”
 
 After being released by the accused, Rampal narrated the entire episode to the police. He requested the accused to release him and told them he has heart disease and diabetes too. Rampal also said he might get a heart attack if he is not released. 
 
 
