KANNUR:   district collector   has said land acquisition is the major obstacle causing delay in the development project and the main cause for this is the ignorance of the people in this regard.

 
 Addressing an interaction with the media, organised by the   here on Saturday, as part of finalizing the development plan document for the district, he also said if the people are sensitized about the acquisition process and also the rate of compensation, the objections would reduce.
 
 “Now we are able to give compensation and also rehabilitate the evicts in a time-bound manner. The average rate of land acquisition for a project is nearly three times the cost of a project,” he said, adding that we should demystify the land acquisition process, and make people aware of the good compensation they get and also the development it would bring about.
 
 With the airport becoming a reality, the dreams about development has also taken a new dimension, opined the collector.
 
 District panchayat president  , who also addressed the meeting, said if the local bodies including the district panchayat take coordinated steps, we can formulate excellent projects in the field of agriculture.
 
 “We have envisaged the draft document of the development plan keeping in mind the development needs for the next fifty years,” he said.
 
 Those who took part in the debate opined that the traffic bottlenecks in Kannur town is a major problem affecting the overall development process of the district and there should be efforts to address it on war footing.
 
 Apart from the long-term projects like flyovers and bypass roads, we should also have projects that address immediate needs, it was opined. For this the smaller roads connecting the main roads should also be developed, and also steps should be taken against illegal constructions as well as illegal parking, said the participants in the discussions.
 
 The development plan will be finalized based on the inputs from different levels of discussions, said the district panchayat president, who is also the chairman of the district development committee.
 
 
