TIRUPUR: Residents of various settlements around   have opposed Hindu Religious & Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) department’s action to recover temple lands in the city. 

 On Friday, more than 500 residents staged a hunger strike against the department, which has intensified its action to recover temple lands after a Madras high court order, at Parappalayam. 
 
 Despite knowing that they could not win the battle legally, the residents were ready to fight democratically to save, as per their claims, their hard-earned lands. The opposition parties, including DMK, CPM, CPI and  , have extended their support to the protesting residents. 
 
 Sources in the HR& CE department said: “20.87 acre of temple land located on Karuvampalayam, Sheriff Colony, LRG Layout, Senguthapuram, Mullai Nagar, Palayakadu, KVR Nagar, Chellam Nagar, Ayyan Nagar, Dhanlakshmi Layout and   have been encroached. The encroached lands belonged to two temples, Visweswaraswamy and Veeraraghava Perumal temple and Nallur’s Visweswaraswamy Visalatchi Amman Subramanyaswamy temple.”
 
 The department has issued show-cause notices to 45 residents at  .
 
 “Title deeds for all these lands were in the name of deities of the two temples. If so, the properties of the deities, being considered as minors always, no one can utilize them against the interests of the deities,” said A  , former assistant commissioner of the department, who worked in combined Coimbatore district.
 
 All these disputed lands were illegally sold by the then temple trustees around 50 years ago. Many former revenue officials could also have conspired in further stages in helping to sell the lands during the periods of Updated Registry Scheme (UDR in 1980) and computerization.
 
 Muthu Palaniappan said the state government in 1990 had appointed a special officer to see possibilities of selling the disputed lands as per then government guideline value to the encroachers. But it later dropped the move as it would set a ‘wrong precedence’.
 
 “It was clear that the lands were fraudulently sold with the help of former temple trustees and officials. But now, lower middle class families have invested their hard-earned money to buy small pieces of lands and built their houses, which constitutes majority of the ‘so-called encroachers’. Moreover, whenever encumbrance certificate was verified by the ‘encroachers’, it never showed the lands were the temple’s properties or in dispute. If the government wanted to save the temple lands, it should have stopped the sales/change of ownerships four or five decades ago,” said C Thambi Venkatesan, a DMK functionary, who also ‘owns’ a small part of the disputed lands.
 
 “But the government have woken up only in 2013 and directed to stop any sale of the disputed lands. Since then, all banks have stopped providing any kind of loans in connection with those lands, it was taking toll on the lower middle class people,” said G Easwara Moorthy, CPM functionary.
 
 
