 is an addiction, says this guy who lost 43.5 kilos in 10.5 months! Initially, you might not get so passionate but once you start to drop kilos, it becomes an obsession. It was not Anshum’s intention, but his bedridden condition made him lose 6 kilos, that too in a very short duration. Being at 130 kilos, losing those 6 kilos became his point of motivation and he decided to become fit thereon. Here’s what he has to say about his
 .

 
  Anshum Mandore
 
 
  Photographer
 
 
  37
 
 
  130.2 kgs
 
 
  43.5 Kgs
 
 
  10.5 months
 
 
 My weight caused severe back problems. I was bedridden for 12 days. During these 12 days, I stayed on a liquid diet because I was too embarrassed to use a bedpan. I lost 6 kgs during that period. I saw this as a 'windfall' weight loss and felt motivated to keep it going thereon.
 
 
  2 boiled eggs
 
 
  Usually, 2 Bhakris (Rotis made from Jowar, Bajra or Ragi), veggies, dals and salad. For a change, I prepare pizza using bhakri as base. Also, quinoa tossed with lots of garlic and veggies in olive oil. 
 
 
  Anything minus carbs. Usually, a big bowl of salad, dal 
 tandoori chicken or tikka 
  something like just the bhaji part of pav-bhaji etc.
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  I don't really have cheat days. Eggs and chicken are my favourite foods and I prefer eating them every day. So, I don't feel deprived of my favourite food. I do treat myself with a good dessert, twice a week.
 
 
  Back strengthening exercises followed by 40 minutes of running on the treadmill 
 27 kms cycling outdoor.
 
 
  Pizza made on a bhakri-base (Jowar / Bajra / Ragi) using minimally processed cheese. Also, quinoa with lots of garlic and veggies. And don't underestimate the flavour or power of a nice leafy salad with some home-made tandoori paneer or chicken for that tandoori flavour.
 
 
  Working out every day is important, and besides that, try to stay on your feet for a longer duration during the day. I now work from a standing desk and it has made me super-active. Initially, your legs hurt a bit but your body quickly gets adapted. Also, reduce sugar intake. I now feel it’s worse than smoking!
 
 
  Looking at myself in the mirror now each morning and fitting into clothes that I had never dreamt of is what makes me feel motivated. I'm actually considering getting a tattoo that says "Never Again".
 
 
  I believe if you want to achieve something, you need strong determination. Nagging, pressure or advice from friends and family cannot help you get fitter unless it’s within. I've simply made getting and staying fit as my priority. It comes above everything else. I believe in the adage "health is wealth". I weigh myself every single day. If the scale stays at the same point or lower than before, it’s all good. But if it shows even 100 gms up, I find some way to compensate and correct that immediately. 
 
 
  The bashing that your self-confidence takes. The subtle jokes and blows below the belt from friends and loved ones. You don't want to go out and meet or face anyone, and yet in my line of work, I had to do it every day. Not being able to dress well, easily feeling exhausted, having knee and back problems at a relatively younger age are just a few of the other things.
 
 
  I've lost most of the excess weight but have a few more kgs to go. Thereafter, I would like to focus on strength and toning up. 10 years down the line, I would like to be the 47-year-old with the physical fitness and energy of a 25-year-old. And after what I’ve achieved, no one can tell me it’s not possible.
 
 
  I've cut carbs and sugar, moved to 2 just large meals a day and I ensure that I've had my last meal latest by 7.30 p.m. Also, I’ve moved from an extremely sedentary lifestyle to a very active one where I’m literally on my feet for most of the day and I also do a high-intensity cardio workout every day.
 
 
  Having to ask for a seat-belt extension on a flight. Never have I been as embarrassed!
 
 
  When you're holding a piece of food in your hand and as an educated individual, you already know if it is good for you or not. The question is whether you put it in your mouth anyway or look for an alternative. You don't need experts for that. You just need a little bit of determination and passion. Nothing is as motivating for weight-loss as weight-loss itself. Try it. Give it your all and aim for just 2 kgs. Drop those 2 kgs and experience how addictive it is. From an addiction for food to an addiction for fitness, the shift happens, almost seamlessly and you end up surprising yourself, just like I did.
 
 
 
 
