VISAKHAPATNAM: The Centre for Studies on Bay of Bengal, Andhra University, has completed its   and   of the port city for which it entered into an MoU with the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC). 

 The final report is likely to be submitted to the GVMC by this month-end for integration with the proposed Command and Control Centre.
 
 In addition to the data generated for the entire GVMC area, the digitalisation process also covered a detailed study in Zone-II area of the city to pave way for geo-coding of property linked to each assessment with details of property and other taxes, vacant lands, unassigned properties and so forth. The detailed study covered 80,000 assessments in Zone-II of the city.
 
 On the other hand, the state government, under a  , roped in Darashaw & Co Pvt Ltd. to cover the remaining zones of the city. The GVMC wants to have a GIS-based property tax system by concluding the detailed survey of all the eight zones in the city.
 
 Center for Studies on Bay of Bengal director   explained the technicalities of the project. 
 
 “Sensitive areas like defence establishments of the city were exempted from the digital data processing. High-resolution aerial cameras, as high as 9-cm resolution, had generated multi-dimensional photographic data with a suitable swath for 3D mapping and processing to interpret and digitalise the physical features from the photographs,” Prof Rao said. 
 
 “We have carried out a detailed study in Zone-II of the city with measurements of each building,” the Centre for Studies director added.
 
 Prof Rao further added that they sought the services of the a private geospatial services firm for the project. “Concluding the processing of data, the report will be submitted to the GVMC by this month end,” he said.
 
 Besides containing the revenue leakages of the civic body, the data provides exact measurements of a structure. This will also help the GVMC know how many signboards are there in the city, details of the drainage system, colony/ward boundaries, and so on. The GVMC has supplied the secondary data for the project.
 
 
