TIRUPUR: Heavy rain and wind have wreaked havoc in the district in the past couple of days, claiming six lives and throwing normal life out of gear. Electricity went off in many places as electrical distribution lines were cut off due to heavy wind, while motorists had a harrowing time as waterlogging on roads resulted in traffic congestion.

 In one incident, a 22-year-old woman from Jharkhand was killed and another woman injured after a portion of a rainwater-soaked wall along with shutter of a hotel on   at Avinashi collapsed on them on Sunday.
 
 The deceased was identified as T Saraswati. “The incident took place when she was coming out of the hotel after having food. She was employed with a knitwear factory,” police said.
 
 In another rain-related incident, D Sivakumar, 48, of Gandhi Chowk at Udumalpet was electrocuted on Sunday when he attempted to switch on an electrical bell-drum set. He was a temple priest.
 
 The rain accompanied by heavy wind also didn’t spare the people who took shelter in a bus terminus. A 41-year-old man, who took shelter at   bus terminus to escape the rain, was killed on Saturday after the asbestos sheet roof of a toilet collapsed on him. Another person was injured in the incident. The deceased was identified as S  , 41, of  .
 
 “The casualty would have been bigger had the 1,000-litre PVC water tank not been there under the roof. Many people had taken shelter there. Ashok was pulled out of the debris after 45 minutes of struggle and he was rushed to a nearby hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead,” said a fire and rescue services personnel.
 
 Meanwhile, K Deivathal, 62, of Seeranampalayam, was killed on Saturday after a tree fell on her tiled-roof house while she was asleep.
 
 Another two were electrocuted after distribution lines were cut off due to strong wind on Saturday. The deceased were identified as G Soundaraseelan, of Vidyalayam, and K  , 49, of EB powerhouse at Udumalpet.
 
 Soundaraseelan, a watchman with Aavin milk parlour at Veerapandi, was killed after a high-tension wire got severed and fell on him while he was on duty. Eswaran was electrocuted when he tried to untie his dog from an electrical post in front of his house, officials said.
 
 
