SANDHARSI(PATIALA): Three persons were killed and 11 injured after they inhaled ammonia gas that leaked following a massive explosion which ripped apart a huge ammonia gas cylinder installed outside a food processing and packaging unit on the outskirts of   village on the   road early on Tuesday. The victims were working inside the unit when the mishap occurred. The explosion occurred due to a sudden increase in pressure inside the ammonia container. 

 The district police registered a case against the two directors of the unit, Satish Kumar and Yashpal Singla, under Sections 404 and 336 of the IPC. Both directors are yet to be arrested.
 
 The three persons who happened to be in the vicinity of the cylinder when it exploded died on the spot after inhaling a huge quantity of leaked ammonia that quickly engulfed certain areas of the unit. They were identified as Surinder Kumar (42) of Sangohalpur village and   (22) and Gurjinder Singh (19), both residents of Bagora village. Eleven others whose condition deteriorated after they also inhaled the leaked gas were present on the premises of the unit and were rushed to Government Rajindra Hospital at the district headquarters, where the condition of four of them was stated to be critical. The unit, which is owned by   (P) Limited, is used for processing and packaging of raw vegetables, especially green peas. 
 
 The incident took place around 1.30am on Tuesday when the huge cylinder installed outside the covered area of the unit exploded. The cylinder was linked to other smaller containers by metal pipes. After the leakage was spotted, a team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and chemical experts from National Fertilizers Limited (NFL) reached the spot and secured the entire area by 12.30 pm. The response team carried an elaborate inspection of pipes inside the unit and sealed all joints. 
 
 Soon after the incident fire tenders from Patiala and adjoining areas rushed to the spot. A team of senior officials of the district civil as well as police administration, including DC Kumar Amit, also reached the spot to take stock of the situation and oversee rescue operations. 
 
 According to villagers, they heard a huge blast after which reports of   started pouring in during the wee hours of Tuesday morning. Panic-stricken residents of two villages located in the vicinity of the mishap site moved to safer places, said  , one of the villagers. The DC said the incident did not call for any evacuation in these two villages as these were located at a safe distance and the firefighters had managed to curtail the spread of ammonia gas. He said some residents moved away on their own to ensure their safety. 
 
 Box: CM orders magisterial probe and ex-gratia 
 
 Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh has ordered a magisterial probe and announced ex gratia compensation for the victims. He said the magisterial inquiry would look into all aspects and pin responsibility. He also directed Patiala DC Kumar Amit to oversee the rescue and relief operations and asked the police to extend all possible assistance to the victims. The CM announced an ex-gratia grant of Rs1 lakh each to the next of the kin of deceased, besides free treatment to the injured. 
 
 
