The   in   in Theni, which claimed the lives of more than a dozen trekkers, has come up as a wake-up call to the growing population of   in the state. Some avid trekkers and experts who have been there before, hold forth on the terrain in   hills, how this could have been avoided, official trek permits in the state and how to escape a forest fire, etc. 

 
 Looking at the intensity of the fire, it couldn’t have been something that would have blazed up in just one day. It’s been there for the last couple of days. In that case, the government or the forest officials could have intimated the trekkers about it. The problem is that unless some lives are lost, we don’t sit up and take notice of all these things. Another thing is that there’s no formal trek permit as such given in Tamil Nadu, unlike in Kerala and Karnataka. I hardly find any permitted trek routes in Tamil Nadu that promote eco-tourism. So, there are no restrictions and prohibited areas, etc. Also, no one keeps a check on the number of adventure companies that crop up every now and then.
  — Balaji Mohan, 
 an avid trekker and biker 
 
 
  
 Forest department handles forest fires by creating counter fires — removing a strip of land of all flammable materials like dry leaves, grass and such stuff, and creating a fire towards the enhancing fire. When the two fires meet, the fire will exhaust and will not further spread through the clear strip. Also department does do the following works like taking fireline, control burning prior to the fire season. In the case of an accidental fire, running is not a good option, since no one can gauge how the fire will spread and which direction. While strict action is taken against trespassers into forest (trekkers who do not have permission to enter the forest), sometimes their entry goes unnoticed as they try to enter the forest from various sides. When the forest guards or watchers are not patrolling that particular area, they stealthily get in inviting danger for themselves.
  — Forest officer
 
 
 
 Back in 2009 and 2010, I was there in Kurangani hills a couple of times to take photographs for the tourism department. Kurangani hills is the last motorable point in that stretch towards Kozhuku malai, which is the topmost point. And sometimes jeeps were also used to reach Kozhuku malai. Now, I am not sure if it’s accessible for jeeps. The terrain is quite tough. It is definitely not advisable for first-time trekkers. I’ve been to Periyar in Kerala. There the forest department organises the trek. They don’t let more than 30 jeeps per day to go up the hill and no private entry is allowed. First, you’re taken to the government guest house on jeeps, have breakfast and then people set out for trekking from there. Since treks are organised regularly on the same route, paths to climb up the hill are naturally made and you feel as if you’re walking on a plain surface even if you’re climbing the hill. There are some places in Tamil Nadu also like Topslip, Mudumalai and Nilgiris, where forest officials will take you for trekking. But as far as I know, Kurangani is not a place like that. — Dharma Chandru, wildlife photographer
 
 
  
 Generally, it is not advisable to organise trekking between March and May as most of the forest areas remain dry during this period and the chances of catching fire are more. As a part of the procedure, it very important to get the permission from the forest officials before setting foot in the forest. If we encounter forest fire during trekking, then it is advisable to always move upwind (against the direction of the wind) because the tendency of the fire getting spread is always less towards the upwind. Meanwhile, the rules of the Tamil Nadu forest department are not clear, unlike that of Karnataka, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh. In these states, there is a formal procedure before trekking. After filling up the documents, we pay the fee and get the receipt, after which a forest guide will accompany you for the trekking. As per my knowledge, this is how it is done everywhere in India except Tamil Nadu. When you browse through the trekking websites of Tamil Nadu, you don’t find a definite procedure on how to seek consent from the forest officials. I have seen many cases where trekkers bribe the officials to get an easy way out to enter the forest.
  — Ramesh Kamak, trekker from Trichy
 
 
 Before you set out on a trek, the organisers should have a contingency plan for unexpected situations. It could be a forest fire, landslide, cloudburst or animal attack. This is called a pre-hiking plan. One should also assess the risk in the area before going on a trek. One can either have briefing from the forest officials or intimate them about the same. When you suspect a forest fire, look for the direction of the wind, plan an escape route and run downhill. Never run uphill as forest fire moves upwards due to the warm mass of air. Look for an open area where there is no grass, a rock formation or boulders. Move away from any combustible material. In a worst-case scenario, move towards a water body or crawl into a hole and wait till the fire extinguishes. One can also block the line of fire by cutting fire lanes, for instance, removing the grass from the area so that the fire is controlled. An unattended campfire in the wilderness can also spark ignition. But instead of looking at escape mechanisms, it’s always helpful to have a contingency plan. 
 — Group Captain Jayashankar (Retd), a member of the National 
 Adventure Foundation (NAF), Coimbatore
 
 
 
 Before going for any trek, the first thing one must do is to get permission from forest authorities. Second, a trekking group must be accompanied by a guide who is well aware of the local terrain and knows the area closely. Without that a trek is not advisable anywhere. The Western Ghats is not a flat terrain; there are hillocks, deep valleys and one needs a well-trained person for company. Trekking during summer season is not advisable as forest fires are rampant. The forests are not only prone to forest fire, but animals also come out of their shelters looking for water in the season. Forest fire spreads very fast and they move in the upward direction. If you notice smoke coming from anywhere, be cautious. Smoke can affect visibility and you may not be able to see the terrain at all. Do not go near the fire out of curiosity. Forest fire cannot be controlled and you can never outrun it. Even when we forest officials go to a forest, we go a as a team of 30-40 members. Sometimes, when fire touches a dry bamboo stick or lemon grass, the intensity increases 10 times. Dry grass patches, too, are highly volatile. The entire Western Ghats is highly vulnerable to forest fire. When you inhale the smoke, there are high chances that you will faint. Always take a collective decision when stuck in a forest fire. Let one person lead so that there is no panic. In case someone is injured, do not carry them on your shoulders. Instead, two people should lift and carry them holding the legs and head.
  — S Ramasubramaniam, Conservator of Forests (Coimbatore Circle)
 
