NEW DELHI: The Army today killed seven Pakistani soldiers and injured four in areas along the   ( ) in retaliation for the killing of an Indian solider in Pakistani firing on Saturday.

 
 The Army's action occurred in the forward areas along the LoC in  's   district. The action comes after an 
  in Pakistani firing along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri district on Saturday.
 
  
  
 
 Meanwhile, the   said in a statement that four of its soldiers were killed along the LOC in the Jandrot, Kotli sector.
 
 Separately, the Army today also killed six Jaish-e-Muhammad (JeM) terrorists. 
 
 "We have recovered five bodies from the spot. I think six have died, one body is being searched. They belonged to Jaish-e-Mohammed and information was that they are suicide attackers," said SP Vaid, director general of police, Jammu and Kashmir.
 
 Vaid laid out how the action unfolded.
 
 "Since past few days, we were getting inputs about possible attempts to infiltrate from Uri sector. So, ambushes were laid out in that area by Army, J&K police & CRPF. In the morning, exchange of fire took place in one of the ambushes," said Vaid.
 
 Separately, addressing Army members at an event of the 70th  ,   
  to not compel India to step up its military offensive.
 
 "Pakistan Army has been continuously trying to help terrorists sneak into India along LoC in J&K. We are using our might to teach them a lesson. If we are forced, then we may resort to other action by stepping up military offensive," he said.
 
 The Army chief also talked about Pakistan's non-stop ceasefire violations.
 
 "Ceasefire violations by   happen frequently, to which we respond effectively. We will take even stronger steps against our enemies if we are compelled to do so," said General Rawat. 
 
 Any anti-India activities will not be allowed to succeed, he added.
 
 Pakistan has violated the ceasefire along the International Border (IB) and the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir more than 720 times last year, the highest in the past seven years.
 
 According to data compiled by the Union Home Ministry, Pakistani forces have violated ceasefire 724 times along the IB and the LoC till October in comparison to 449 times in 2016.
 
 As many as 12 civilians and 17 security personnel were killed in the firing from across the border until last October.
 
 Last week, Rawat said "Pakistan's nuclear bogey" will be thoroughly exposed were there to be war with the western neighbour, which often brandishes its short-range Nasr (Hatf-IX) nuclear missiles as a battlefield counter to India's `Cold Start' strategy of swift, high-intensity conventional attacks into enemy territory.
 
 "We will call their bluff. If given the task, we will not say we cannot cross the border because they have nuclear weapons," said Rawat.
 
 General Rawat also said that disputes along Line of Actual Control in the country's northern border with China are continuing, with regular transgressions occurring.
 
 "We are working to stop them," said General Rawat.
 
 As for the Eastern front, the Army chief said terrorism there has been limited.
 
 
 
 
 "Our intelligence based and people-friendly operations in the north-east have managed to limit terrorism to a large extent," he said.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
