BENGALURU: How will the votes of Dalits, who account for nearly 24% of the population, impact the outcome of   assembly elections? A few elections ago, they would have most certainly voted for the  . Not anymore.

 
 Of the 224 constituencies in the state, 36 are reserved for SCs. The 1.08 crore Dalits in a population of 6.11 crore can make a difference to the outcome in at least 60 other constituencies, which is a huge number. It’s no wonder that their support is critical for the success of any party.
 
 As per a study by the Centre for Studies of Developing Societies (CSDS), about 50 % of the Dalit votes used to go to the Congress, while the BJP’s share was only 20% in the past. Things have changed dramatically since the 2008 assembly polls when the   won 22 of 36 seats reserved for SCs in Karnataka. Though the Congress managed to bounce back in the 2013 assembly polls by winning 17, the trend of Dalit votes getting divided is the new normal.
 
 There is a strong reason for it: Dalits are divided into Left hand castes (or Madigas or “untouchables”) and right hand castes (or Holeyas).
 
 While right-hand Dalits, which Congress leader Mallikarjuna M Kharge represents, have consolidated their support behind the Congress, the Left Dalits, angry at the non-implementation of the Justice A J Sadashiva Commission report on internal reservation, are backing the BJP. Some have even joined the the JD(S) or  .
 
 The Justice Sadashiva Commission, which looked into methods of equitable distribution of reservation facilities among SCs, recommended internal reservation by broadly reclassifying all 101 castes into four groups. Of the 15% reservation provided for SCs, it recommended 6% to left hand groups, 5% to right hand groups, 3% to touchables and 1% to other SC communities.
 
 “We’ve been seeking implementation of the report for four years but the Siddaramaiah government has not heeded our request under pressure from righthand Dalit communities,’’ said C N Muniyappa, a Dalit leader. The JD(S), fighting with the BSP, threatens to woo Dalit votes in some key constituencies.
 
 All this doesn’t mean the BJP will garner all the Dalit votes. Last month’s Supreme Court verdict diluting the SC/ST Act and subsequent violence that resulted in killing of four Dalit activists in north India has angered the community. “The SC/ST Act is sacrosanct for Dalits because it’s a powerful instrument in fighting caste atrocities, especially in villages. This has given way to a general feeling that Dalits’ rights, safeguarded by the Constitution, are under threat under the   regime,’’ said Veeranjeneya, a Dalit Sangharsha Samithi activist.
 
 Union minister Anantkumar Hedge’s statement seeking to review the Constitution has worsened matters.
 
 A former BSP leader said: “The real task for Dalits remains conquering the political space rather than remain engaged with just reformist and economic work. There’s also a strong perception among people that the BJP and JD(S) have an understanding and the BSP only is helping them by eating into traditional Dalit votes of the Congress.”
 
