NAGPUR: The National Eligibility cum Entrance Test 2018 (NEET) may very well be the ‘easiest’ ever, if one goes by the version of majority of subject experts and students. The biology section was straightforward and straight out of the NCERT syllabus leaving no ambiguity, students told TOI. 

 Mansi Kewate, a student from Pandurna, said, “I was very happy to see that biology was so easy to solve. I found Chemistry a bit difficult but no so much as to hamper my chances of scoring high. Even after the paper got leaked in some areas last year, I wasn’t worried this time because I knew the authorities have tightened up the system.” 
 
 Roshan Raj, a student from Bilaspur, said, “It was a well balanced paper with a mix of easy and difficult questions. The difficult questions made me want to learn more. There wasn’t anything out of syllabus as such, it was NCERT based.”
 
 Sameer Phale, senior teacher at Dr Phale Medical Entrance Institute, said, “This was the easiest question paper that I have come across yet. Neither there were errors nor any confusion regarding the questions. I feel that the standard of exam will be lowered drastically if things continue this way. Last year they had questions on the topic of ‘frog’ which should not have been there.”
 
 Trivena Munghate, a city-based student felt an easy biology was a relief. “The paper was very easy though I was expecting it to be tougher than last year. I had worked very hard for biology anyway, so it would have been easy for me regardless of the questions. Though physics and chemistry was difficult but even then, my paper went really well.” Amin Sohal, a student from Amravati, said, “Physics was very difficult even though nothing seemed out of syllabus. I wasn’t worried about any discrepancies in the paper this time despite of the fiasco last year.”
 
 Rajnikant Bondre, owner of   agreed that the biology section was very easy. Bondre said, “Very easy questions and difficulty level was low. Hardly five or six questions could qualify as a being a bit difficult. No graph and diagram questions were there and all of them could have been easily solved by simply reading NCERT books.” He also advised students to check their own answer keys. “The question sequence is different in every set so students must not compare with each other, rather check with answer key,” said Bondre. 
 
 City based student Pragati Brahmavanshi, said, “Physics was a bit twisted as compared to the other two, but overall it went very well. There was no hassle at the centre as CBSE had mentioned everything clearly.”
 
 Atul Yamsanwar, director of PACE IIT and Medical, said, “Biology section was easier than last year, and had very few application-based questions. Physics was the toughest section among the three and compared to last time, there were more theory based questions in addition to calculation based ones.” 
 
 
