BENGALURU: It was the stuff nightmares are made of. A knife-wielding pervert allegedly sneaked into the bedroom of two women pilots of Namma Metro in the dead of night, sniffed at their innerwear spread on the clothesline and asked the women who they were, frightening them out of their wits.

 In their complaint to police, one of the two women said they lived on the first floor of the official quarters in  . On January 10, the women returned home after work around 3.15pm. “Later in the evening, we went to   to celebrate a colleague’s birthday and returned home after dinner. Around 2am, I woke up on sensing something,” the complainant said.
 
 The woman was stunned to see a man squatting on the floor. “I alerted my colleague who was sleeping in the next bed and she too saw him. Gathering courage, we asked him in Kannada who he was and what he was doing,” she recalled.
 
 “For a few minutes, he didn’t answer. We repeatedly asked him and then he replied in Kannada. First, he said that he was a watchman. A minute later, he said he was a thief and his family members had abandoned him,” the women told police.
 
 “He warned us against screaming. He stood near the balcony door for 10 minutes. He then went to the balcony, removed our undergarments from the clothesline and asked whom they belonged to,” the complaint read.
 
 The women said they didn’t know. “He held the lingerie for a few minutes. He sniffed at it a few times and was seen biting his nails,” the complainant said. 
 
 The locopilots broke down. “We started crying and he ran away,” they said. The woman rushed out and asked the security guard to accompany them to the flat. The guard found cigarette butts at the house, indicating that the pervert had spent some time in the quarters. Byappanahalli police have have formed two special teams to nab the miscreant, senior officials said.
 
 
 
 
 Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) owns residential staff quarters near Byappanahalli depot, which comprise two towers. Around 2am on January 11, 2018, an unknown person trespassed into Tower-1 of the residential complex and one of the women’s quarters, spoke of irrelevant matters for about half an hour and left without hurting anyone, said BMRCL. The staff occupying the quarters have lodged a complaint with Byappanahalli police and investigation is on. Senior BMRCL officers visited the complex and are taking steps to strengthen the security.
 
 
 
 
 Bengaluru is not new to men with fetish for women’s innerwear trespassing into women-only spaces. In March last year, officials from the hostel of Maharani’s Arts, Commerce and Management College for Women, Seshadri Road, had filed a police complaint saying that an unidentified nude person was frequently entering the hostel premises at night, donning students’ innerwear and escaping.
 
 A week later, a 31-year-old man, Abu Talim, was arrested. Police recovered dozens of undergarments from Talim’s room at Bangalore Turf Club, where he worked.
 
 
