BENGALURU: The elections are only a few days away, but several voters across Bengaluru are struggling to get hold of their ID cards. Many BBMP offices have remained closed, despite the corporation having been tasked with distributing cards to the public.

 Chief electoral officer Sanjiv Kumar said: “There’s a problem with some BBMP offices. Officials should have been there to answer queries from the public and facilitate things. Some of these issues have resulted in inefficiencies.”
 
 Residents flocking the BBMP offices to get their cards for the past two months have been told to return later to collect them. Anuraj Toppo, a resident of Bommanahalli, said: “I applied for voter ID last year and have been visiting the BBMP office every alternate day but I still haven’t received it. Though this issue has been raised earlier, no action has been taken.”
 
 While BBMP officers seem to have stalled all their routine work for election duty, they still haven’t been able to issue all cards. 
 
 “We haven’t been able to access the electoral list. People who applied for IDs in January and February still haven’t got them. The BBMP office was closed and we were told to go to another office. The employees there had shut the office for the public, claiming to be busy with election work. We have no clue about where to go and who to ask for help,” Sneha Nandihal from IChange Indiranagar said. 
 
 Residents have been running from BangaloreOne centres to BBMP offices to get their cards, but in vain. “I applied in April but haven’t got it yet. I keep visiting the BBMP office in Kacharakanahalli but it remains shut. Though it reserves the time between 3pm and 5pm for us, nobody is there to attend to us. I contacted the corporator (Padmanabha Reddy) who said he would send someone but we haven't seen anyone here. There are 30 people waiting here since morning,” Nedra M Pereira of KR Puram constituency, said. 
 
 Some people have received serial numbers and ward numbers to access their ID online, but the list does not contain their names.
 
  BBMP commissioner Maheshwar Rao said citizens could still vote using 11 other forms of identification, and that the offices were closed as the officers were printing and readying ID cards.
 
 —Priya Bhat M and Jennifer H Charles 
 
 
