Chandigarh: To provide housing for the economically weaker sections of society, Punjab cabinet approved Affordable Colony Policy 2018 for lower income groups. The state government hopes to check the growth of unauthorized colonies with this initiative.

 Under the policy, higher density and floor area ratio (FAR) will be offered to promoters who are keen to develop an affordable colony, an official spokesperson said.
 
 The new policy proposes rebate in rates pertaining to Change of Land Use (CLU), External Development Charges (EDC) and License Fee (LF) to enable construction of maximum possible number of flats over an acre of land. Plot sizes in such colonies would be maximum up to 125 square yards and their average size would exceed 100 square yards.
 
 With most unauthorized colonies found to have small sized plots that are normally purchased by Economically Weaker Section (EWS) and Lower Income Group (LIG), the state government had decided to relax certain provisions in approved colonies, including relaxation in saleable area, FAR, to make plots available to the common man on affordable rates.
 
 Under the policy, a maximum of five acres of land would be required to carve out an affordable colony in all the master plans of the state, except SAS Nagar and New Chandigarh Master Plans, wherein any activity to set up a colony is only allowed to be undertaken as per the provisions of the approved master plans.
 
 The policy proposes plotted, flatted and a mix of plotted and flatted development by the promoters. It also envisages the maximum saleable area for flats at 65% of the total project, as against the existing 50%, which would come as a major relief to builders. Similarly, under the flatted development on roads of 40 to 80 feet and above, an FAR of 1:2 to 1:3 has been proposed. Parking norms for the dwelling units have also been relaxed.
 
 Recent inventory
 
 According to a recent inventory, there are approximately 8,000 unauthorized colonies in about 40,000 acre land, which have come up without permission from the competent authority in a haphazard manner and are devoid of basic facilities such as water supply and sewerage.
 
 
