PUNE: Complaints of Aadhaar   will be taken up on   by the   IT department, for which specific guidelines have been issued to all its officials.

 Sharing this information with TOI, Maharashtra   secretary SVR Srinivas on Friday said, “We talked to the collectors and commissioners who will direct the operators to address this issue (Aadhaar deactivation). If there are any specific reasons, they will be addressed.”
 
 
  
 
 According to the IT officials,   numbers are deactivated when they have mixed or different biometric information or multiple names or if the operator’s licence is cancelled. “Sections 27 and 28 of the Aadhaar Act allows cancellation or deactivation of Aadhaar of an individual if there are multiple Aadhaars issued on a person’s name or there are discrepancies in the biometric data or documentation,” the officials said.
 
 Citizens can visit UIDAI website to verify Aadhaar issued to them. 
 
 “If the 12-digit Aadhaar number is valid, the page will be shown displaying a message confirming the status of the Aadhaar number entered. If the number has been deactivated, the page will not display it,” the officials said.
 
 
 
 A deactivated Aadhaar can be reactivated upon re-verification of biometrics, an IT official said. “This can be done after submitting the form for updating Aadhaar and providing all the relevant documents. Once this is done, the previous biometrics will be matched with the new one. Once the match is confirmed, the Aadhaar number will be reactivated with the permission of UIDAI. For this process, the citizens will have to pay a nominal fee of Rs 25 at the enrolment centre,” the official added.
 
 Meghana Mohan said she had got her Aadhaar card about four years ago. However, when she tried to link her card for a service, it showed that it has been deactivated. While it worried her initially, she was able to activate it by updating her details. “Some centres help out, while others do not and this is the major cause of concern,” Mohan said.
 
 
