After setting up a unique ‘Asthi Kalash’ bank in Kanpur, Manoj Sengar and his wife Madhavi Sengar have now planned to raise similar banks in 10 other districts of the state, including Lucknow, Allahabad,  

 The bank, set up on   three years ago, allows people to keep ‘ashes’ of their kin after cremation free of cost instead of immersing them in the Ganga to save the river from pollution. People are encouraged to bury the ashes in the ground. The first of its kind bank has served 2,500 customers.
 
 “According to Hindu rituals, ashes or ‘Asthiyan’ are not taken home after cremation. The kalash containing ashes has to be left with a purohit at the ghat who charges exhorbitantly. After a few days, while performing rituals, the ashes are immersed in Ganga. But the ritual adds to the pollution in the river Ganga or other river in which the ashes are immersed. We therefore, had decided to set up a ‘Asthi Kalash’ bank and encourage people to bury ashes in ground,” said Manoj.
 
 He said that this was never an easy task for him as it was something against the rituals of cremation. “But we got support from saints and seers including   and former city mayor Jagatveer Singh Drona and finally the bank was accepted by masses. The ‘Asthi Kalash’ bank is situated at electric crematorium at Bhairoghat. In this new year, we have pledged to set up one such bank in 10 districts. In these districts also we will encourage people to go for soil immersion of the ashes while performing all the necessary rituals,” said Manoj Sengar further.
 
 He said that immersing of ashes in Ganga is also a major reason of increase in pollution in Ganga and that the motive of his setting up this bank is to save the holy river. “We also encourage people to opt for electric crematorium for performing last rites,” he said.
 
 On being asked what he does when people who give ashes in ‘Aasthi Kalash’ bank do not turn up, Sengar said he and his colleagues perform all the rituals and bury the ashes at Ganga banks.
 
