NASHIK: The   civil hospital has decided to fill the vacant posts of neurosurgeon on contractual basis and has invited applications for the same. 

 While one post is to be filled at the Nashik civil hospital, another post will be filled at the   general hospital. The administration of the hospital is hopeful that they will get right candidates for the two posts.
 
 On a daily basis there are seven to eight accident patients that are rushed to the civil hospital. However, in case of complicated head or brain-related injuries, the patient is rushed to other private hospital as there is no neurosurgeon at the hospital.
 
 Suresh  , civil surgeon of Nashik civil hospital, said the post of neurosurgeon is not approved for the Nashik civil hospital. However, after reports about number of accident patients the hospital has to handle on a daily basis, a post of neurosurgeon was sanctioned for Nashik civil hospital by the Centre.
 
 The presence of a neurosurgeon in the hospital is necessary as even the divisional referral hospital at   does not have a post sanctioned for it. Senior officials of the hospital said due to the lack of neurosurgeon at the hospital, the patients coming to the hospital, who are mostly from economically weaker sections have to take the patients to Mumbai.
 
 The civil hospital officials said they were hopeful of getting the candidates this time as it is the second time they had invited applications from neurosurgeons from Nashik and Malegoan hospitals.
 
 Two months ago, when the civil hospital had placed an advertisement for the post, only one neurosurgeon had applied for it. Though the concerned doctor was selected, he refrained from taking the job after being told to serve at the Malegaon general hospital.
 
 Jagdale said that there were many posts they had to fill in various district, sub-district and rural hospitals. However, on most occasions, the doctors concerned refrain from taking up the job in rural hospitals.
 
 There are posts of gynecologists, anesthetist, surgeons, pediatricians, nephrologists, physicians and staff nurse, lab technicians lying vacant in various rural hospitals. With non-availability of doctors, the patients of rural hospitals either have to come to the Nashik civil hospital or visit private hospitals. 
 
 
