
 PUNE: The public bicycle sharing plan has run into a speed bump. The plan, a joint venture of   and Pune Smart City Development Corporation Limited (PSCDCL), has struck the right chord, with most citizens taking to pedalling on PEDL bikes enthusiastically. However, some feel those using the books should be a little more considerate about where the park the two-wheelers. 
 
 At the moment, the green   can be seen   haphazardly at several pavements on Fergusson College Road, Bhandarkar Road and Prabhat Road, causing an obstruction for   and highlighting the need for special stations.
 
 Mythili Gosavi, a student of ILS Law College who frequents Bhandarkar Road and Prabhat Road regularly, said dedicated docking stations will solve the problem. “A lot of these bicycles are parked on the pavements and cause inconvenience to pedestrians. The footpaths are already in a bad shape and this, coupled with haphazardly parked bicycles, force people to walk on the road. Proper bicycle stands or stations must be demarcated off the footpath so that no one is inconvenienced,” she explained.
 
 Prabhat Road resident   feels that it is important to find suitable spots. “During a visit to Belgium, I had seen dedicated space for parking of cycles. A space is carved out between the footpath and the road by reducing the width of the footpath in a way that the cycles can be accommodated. Such designated stations are already available in Aundh,” she said. 
 
 Special parking docks have been created on the smart street in Aundh-Baner to ensure that pedestrians do not have to step on to the road and then back on the footpath due to the bicycles. 
 
 Joshi further added that proper planning is required to develop infrastructure across the city. “We cannot focus only on one area to build stations. A lot more planning is required, considering the fact that cycle sharing is going to be launched across the city. I guess that over time, such dedicated stations will be developed across the city,” Joshi added. 
 
 Speaking on the issue, Nirmal NR, vice president (operations), Zoomcar (PEDL’s parent company), said that the infrastructure is still incomplete. “We have identified locations in the two-wheeler parking areas on FC Road, Bhandarkar Road and others which are cycle stations. However, on many occasions, two-wheelers are parked at these spots forcing people to park the bicycles on the footpath. We are in the process of installing signage at these locations to deter people from parking two-wheelers,” he explained. 
 
 Citing the example of Bremen Chowk, he said that while the bicycles are parked on the pavement, they do not cause obstruction to pedestrians. “While the plan is to have cycle stations in the two-wheeler parking areas, it may not be possible at some spots. At Bremen chowk, a certain part of the footpath is extended to accommodate the cycle station. Similar is the case of Oriental Bank of Commerce on FC Road. We are working with the PMC to ensure that designated spaces are available for cycles. As more people start using the cycles, the government can ensure that proper infrastructure is also developed to avoid inconvenience to any section of the population,” he added.
 
 
