RAJKOT/SURAT/AHMEDABAD: Heat wave conditions prevailed over  , Kutch and coastal   on Monday with mercury touching over 40°C in 13 towns on Monday. 

 The extreme heat conditions since Sunday claimed the life of a 70-year-old woman in Surendrangar district. Weather department forecast suggested that the heat wave conditions will continue over Gujarat state for next two days.
 
 The woman, identified as Noorjahan Ramzan Shaikh (70), a resident of Laxmipara in Surendranagar, who was on pilgrimage to Bhadiyad Peer Dargah in Dholka of Ahmedabad, fainted on Limbdi highway on Sunday. Her family members then took her to Limbdi government hospital where she was declared dead. Reason of the death was heat stroke and was declared on Monday. 
 
 Shaikh’s family members alleged that there was no facility of doctors for the pilgrims going towards Bhadiyad during Urs festival. However, CDHO of Surendranagar Dr S M Dev denied any such death and even the Limbdi police station officer said that no mortality was reported due to heat stroke.
 
 On Monday, Porbandar remained the hottest with maximum temperature touching 42.5°C followed by Surat (41.8) and Surendranagar (41.3). The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a heat wave warning in coastal Saurashtra for Tuesday.
 
 The Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) on Monday issued a heat wave warning for next two days. The civic body expects that the temperature may touch 41°C over the next two days. Citizens have been asked to remain indoors during 12 pm and 5pm. They have also been asked to consume more liquid. RMC may also instruct schools to change timings if the wave continues. The district administration in Amreli, Porbandar and   also wanted citizen about the heat wave.
 
 In Surat, the number of cases of Dehydration, mild fever with stomach ache and fainting have increased by at least 10% in last two days. Health officials at Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) said that they have given advisory to all their 40-odd health centers and other hospitals to keep vigil.
 
 Dr Jayant Sarkar, Director of IMD- Ahmedabad, said that the reason of extreme heat condition can be attributed to one anti-cyclonic circulation over North Gujarat and adjoining Rajasthan due to which dry and hot air was blowing over the state.
 
 Sarkar added that the extreme heat condition may not prevail after Tuesday as the wind patterns will be southwesterly to westerly and it will bring moisture from Arabian Sea due to which temperature may come down.
 
 
