TUTICORIN: The famous weekly Ettayapuram Goat Shanty near Kovilpatti in Tuticorin District witnessed sale to the tune of more than Rs 6 croreon Saturday. About 7,000 and sheep were brought there and more than 6,000 were sold well ahead of the closure of the shanty. Persons manning the shanty said that on usual Saturday around 1,000 to 1,500 sheep and goat were brought there and business used to be to the tune of Rs 50 lakh to Rs 60 lakh.

  
 The Saturday before   witness  , with the   being the best in the year as farmers sell their   in the harvest festival. On the other hand many people don’t take non-vegetarian items during the season for more than a month due to spiritual reasons, including Sabarimala Iyyappa season. They start consuming non-vegetarian items after Pongal.
 
 “That is why the day after Pongal is called kari naal (non-veg day),” said farmer Rajendran, 46 of Pudur, who was happy that he sold all the 20 goats he brought. He recalled that during Pongal last year they had very poor business due to demonetization and drought, which made mutton a luxury. “We suffered without fodder for goats and could not sell them as well,” he noted.
  
  
 Farmer and goat rarer Murugan, 60 of Aatrankarai near Vilathikulam, sold his 15 goats from Rs 6,500 to Rs 15,000 based on their weight. Gurusamy, 34 a farmer from Enamanikachi in Kovilpatti, said that every week he used to bring around 30 goats and used to sell 12 to 15. “I used to take back the rest when I don’t get the expected price. Today I brought 38 and sold all of them,” he said.
 
 Goats and sheep brought to the shanty are in high demand among butchers and traders from Madurai, Virudhunagar and Theni apart from the three districts in Nellai region due to the quality of meat. “Most sellers here are farmers themselves from the agricultural belts in Kovilaptti, Vilathikulam, Pudur, Kayathar, Kadambur and Kalugumalai,” said butcher Kumaresan, 50 of Aruppukotai.
 
 Kumaresan who bought 110 goats and sheep said that the animals here feed on vegetable wastes and fresh fodder. “So the quality of meat is good and is liked by customers, who don’t mind spending on mutton. Butcher Kupendran, 46 of Theni, bought 60 goats. The shanty that started around 5.30 am looked empty by 11 am.
 
