PUNE: Officials of the Pune division of the Maharashtra State   of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education were on their toes on Wednesday looking for proof about the English paper of higher secondary school ( , standard XII) board exam circulating in the social media.

 Images of the ‘question paper’ purportedly went viral on WhatsApp one hour after the official time of the exam from an exam centre at   in   district.
 
 
  
  
 
 Barshi education officer Vishnu  , who filed a report after conducting an inquiry, stated that the question paper did not go viral from the Barshi exam centre. WhatsApp images of the ‘question paper’ that a section of the media alleged to have gone viral, and the video clips circulated must be investigated by the cybercrime department, he added. 
 
 He said there were adequate security measures at the centre and the exam centre head had on statement said no malpractice had happened on their premises. Board officials received information that the paper went viral from Barshi in Solapur district from exam centre number 0440, Dnyanadeep Ashramshala.
 
 B K Dahiphale, chairman of the Pune division that includes Solapur sub-division, ordered an inquiry. Dahiphale said, "The education officer in Barshi was told to check about the paper going viral and another video that had gone viral on WhatsApp."
 
 Kamble arrived at the exam centre at 2.05pm after receiving instructions from Dahiphale. After a day-long inquiry with the centre’s officials and the police officers present there, Kamble submitted a report to the Pune division stating that the English paper had not gone viral from the Barshi centre.
 
 Dahiphale said, "In his report received late on Wednesday, the education officer listed eight points that he gathered after inquiry and inspection of the exam centre."
 
 The exam centre head, Uttam Dhotre, was present on the premises from 10.45am and has given a written statement to Kamble that no exam malpractice such as copying occurred at his centre. 
 
 Meanwhile, 62 cases of minor exam malpractice were reported from across the state on Wednesday as per the statement issued by the board.
 
 
