A couple of days ago, I was discussing several matters of import with a friend of mine, a scholar that I respect greatly. He happens to be politically inclined as well. The conversation took a more belligerent turn when we began talking about the AR Rahman incident in London, where some louts had shamed all Indians in front of the world by creating a scene protesting against Tamil songs. While he readily agreed that it reflected very poorly on the Indian diaspora and was quite an unfortunate incident, he did not take very kindly to my accusations of linguistic chauvinism. I reproduce our conversation in a point counterpoint form — him making the points, and I countering them…

 
 : Fanatics are everywhere. What’s with these Kannada language fanatics defacing public property? When English and Kannada are on the signboards, why should Hindi not be there?
 
 : Why SHOULD Hindi be there? The local language Kannada is there. The defacto global communication language is there. What purpose is Hindi serving?
 
 
 
 Bengaluru is a cosmopolitan city with many north Indians living and working there, you know, IT and all that… It’s good for them.
 
 : Are you saying north Indian techies will not be willing to assimilate and learn the local language? In any case, there is the English…
 
 
 : Oh, but what about migrant workers? Most of them are not educated or even literate. How will they survive without Hindi? This is not policy, but simply courtesy. 
 
 : Does this courtesy apply to the teeming Tamil or Bengali-speaking migrants in north India? Should the Gulf countries put up Malayalam signage at their airports by this same logic? Migrant workers, I suspect, will be more than willing to learn the language in which they can eke out a living. Many business communities in south India have demonstrated a wonderful willingness to talk and trade in the local Lingua Franca. As for the illiterate, then any script is beside the point, isn’t it? On a side note, shouldn’t we be using more Braille and universal symbols in signage across the country, instead of pushing one language? Concern for migrants is all very well, but what about tourists and the specially abled?
 
 
 : Oh, come on! This is an absurd comparison. Is Malayalam the national language of UAE?
 
 : No, it is not. You know where it actually is a national language? In India! So, should we put it in on signs across the country?
 
 
 : Hindi is more than a local language. It is taught in schools across the country. Everywhere except in Tamil Nadu, they have accepted it. It’s the majority language.
 
 : Hindi was not the official or local tongue of the majority of India in 1947. Of the 565 states that acceded to the Union of India, one could only argue that Hindi was not the majority or official language, but perhaps was popularly spoken by a significant number of people. Ironically, if West Bengal had not been partitioned, it would have been Bengali that would have been the most widely spoken language of India. Even now, it is Bengali that remains the dominant secondary language for the entire north-eastern states. The Centre has steadily promoted Hindi as a secondary language for the past 70 years through the various arms of government, introducing it in schools, and incentivising it through entrance examinations, employment opportunities and so forth. Hindi is being relentlessly thrust upon all Indians as their Identity. This has to stop.
 
 
 : You are only saying this because you are a Madrasi. You hate Hindi. It’s surprising, you speak it so well.
 
 : You are mistaken. No one hates Hindi. It is Hindi imposition that people are protesting against. As a proud Tamilian, I know a thing or two about this. I fluently speak, read and write Hindi, but I do that out of choice. I love languages, and there is so much beauty in Hindi that I am happy to be able to understand. In the beginning, I only wanted to find my way around town in Mumbai. Later, I wanted to understand the Hanuman Chalisa, and enjoy SD Burman. These are my reasons, each one has their own. But while Hindi can be a love, it cannot supplant my identity as a Tamil — by the way, stop boxing all south Indians as Madrasi!
 
 
 : But Hindi is our national language! You will accept a foreign language, English, the language of our colonial oppressors, but not our own native language? We are all Indians, no? Show some patriotism.
 
 : (emphatically) It is not our national language. It is precisely this entitled attitude that fuels our resistance. The very fact that you associate a Hindi communication with patriotism insinuates that vernacular tongues are somewhat less patriotic. How would you feel if I turned around and observed that it is Hindi that serves spies and disruptive elements from across the border? Language is a skill, perhaps a habit, sometimes need, sometimes choice, but never a duty. Even an Italian would learn to speak Hindi if the need arises. We cannot ignore the fact that the history of Hindi is the history of India’s invaders as well. Regional languages boast of a far more indigenous history. Throughout the years, the collective contribution of vernacular speakers to India’s sovereignty easily surpasses that of Hindi. While I agree that English will be a legacy of our colonial past, we are not alone. Countries like Singapore, Canada and South Africa have embraced English alongside their multiple linguistic heritages. In today’s world, it is not one’s British past, but the American future that is dictating in what language business gets conducted. Europeans speak to other Europeans in English. Africa uses English to cross beyond borders. Imposing Hindi as a desi alternative to English is simply an absurd exercise in vanity and misplaced nationalism. Nothing more. 
 
 India’s identity does not lie in a single unifying language that will strip her citizens of their unique cultures. India’s identity is her multiplicity, her diversity, her linguistic hegemony. Jai Hind.
 
 (Views expressed above are the author’s own)
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
