CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government is all set to bring the bill for establishing a regulatory authority to keep a check on private universities and colleges in the state in the budget session of the state legislative assembly to be convened in the second week of March. The proposed regulatory body would monitor quality of education, fee, number of seats and attendance of students in the higher educational institutes.

 Technical education minister Charanjit Singh   told The Times of India, "As promised in our election manifesto, we are going to come up with the bill on regulatory authority in the budget session." He said a meeting on the matter was scheduled for Thursday after which the draft bill would be put up in the next cabinet meeting before taking it to the Vidhan Sabha.
 
 The state government has constituted a three-member committee to deliberate on the issue. The committee is headed by health minister   and includes technical education minister Channi and higher education minister Aruna Chaudhary. Channi said the committee has studied the   model of the regulatory authority and is of the view that they have a better mechanism to keep a control on universities and colleges.
 
 He said the committee was going to propose a check on the fee structure in higher educational institutes through the regulatory body based on the qualities, facilities and infrastructure being provided by the institute. 
 
 Channi said the committee was going to propose physical check of the facilities being provided by various institutes by the regulatory body before granting permission to any institute to start admissions.
 
 Asked about almost two-third vacant seats in various courses in technical colleges across Punjab, Channi said, "We have withdrawn around 7,000 such seats from various colleges of those courses which had either no takers or a few." In fact the colleges themselves surrendered vacant seats and were now only running courses which have sizeable number of students, he added.
 
 Last year, hardly 76 students had shown interest in engineering courses at Giani Zail Singh Campus   of Engineering and Technology at   against 639 seats in the college for various engineering courses. The three-member committee had in September last year invited chancellors of 15 private universities and vice chancellors of nine government universities for a meeting to seek their suggestions on the proposed regulatory body. 
 
 
