Nagpur: In a breather for city  , some of which have been running low on dissolved oxygen level, the CSIR- National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (Neeri) has developed a   to rejuvenate water bodies. The cycle will be handed over to the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) for   the city lakes.

 Conceptualized and fabricated by Neeri, the cycle aims at not only cleaning the lake but also increasing the dissolved oxygen level of the water bodies. The floating cycle is equipped with a propeller which can be directed by the handle.
 
 “There is a mesh attached in the front which will collect floating debris and solid waste from the lake. The paddle wheel at the back will churn the water providing aeration to the water body,” said Atya Kapley, senior principal scientist and head of director’s research cell at Neeri.
 
 Neeri has used PVC pipes which provide the required buoyancy. “To ensure safety, riders will have to wear safety jackets. Since the cycle uses manpower, it is eco-friendly and requires no fuel,” said Kapley. 
 
 Though Neeri has not disclosed how much it would cost to assemble the cycle, Kapley said it will be very “cost effective”.
 
 On Thursday, a pilot experiment of the cycle was conducted at Telangkhedi lake during which some technical modifications were suggested by Neeri’s director Rakesh Kumar. As part of the institute’s upcoming diamond jubilee celebrations, Kumar will be handing over the cycle to NMC commissioner on Saturday morning at Telangkhedi lake. 
 
 Envisaging community participation in the first-of-its-kind project in the city, Neeri has joined hands with NGO Paryavaran Prerna. “The cycle can be modified with a two-seater arrangement so that citizens too can join the initiative. They can enjoy the experience of boating and at the same time clean the lake,” Kapley suggested.
 
 Dissolved oxygen, which refers to microscopic bubbles of gaseous oxygen that are mixed in water and available to aquatic organisms for respiration, is the most important indicator of the health of a water body. As reported by TOI earlier, the dissolved oxygen level at Futala dropped to 2.5 milligrams per litre last year after Ganesh immersions. According to experts, the level should ideally be around 6 mg/l.
 
 Stating that the baseline monitoring of Futala lake was recently conducted by Neeri scientists, Kapley said that the impact of the cycle will be studied further. “Once it starts running, we can monitor the changes in the level of dissolved oxygen,” she added.
 
 
