KANYAKUMARI : The   spent ₹9.4 crore for the techno economic feasibility report (TEFR) for the now scrapped   project at Enayam and the detailed project report (DPR) for the proposed project at Kovalam in Kanyakumari, replies to an   petition from S Stanly Casmic Sundar, an advocate, have found .

 The reply — to a set of 10 questions sent on January 24 — gave room for suspicion about misuse of public money, said Stanly, legal adviser, People’s Movement Against Enayam  . VOC Port is the nodal agency for establishing the terminal in Kanyakumari district.
 
 Stanly said ₹3.5 crore was seen to have been spent on preparing the TEFR and ₹5.84 crore on DPR. “The information officer stated it included ₹35 lakh for the inception report, ₹35 lakh for traffic and market study report, ₹35 lakh for report on alternative development concepts.”
 
 
 
 
 Another ₹35 lakh was on the report on financial returns and economic impact followed by ₹70 lakh on the draft final TEFR and 1.4 crore for the final TEFR. “It is surprising that expenses under four heads were ₹35 lakh each evenly, whereas under two other headsitwas in multiples of 35 lakh.”
 
 The port said ₹5.8 crore spent on the DPR for the ICTT, included ₹39.5 lakh for inception report, ₹63.2 lakh for report on port design including design of breakwaters, cargo terminals and other marine structures and ₹7.9 lakh for applications and documents to get prior environmental clearance from the Centre. While ₹2.37 crore was spent on report on geo technical parameters, draft port layout and firmed up traffic forecast, ₹2.37 crore was spent for the draft final DPR for Enayam site and Addendum to the TEFR for the Kanyakumari site. “In these replies, they have clubbed expenses incurred under various heads under one banner without giving details,” Stanly said.
 
 Separately, the port trust said 14.38 lakh was spent for advertising in FM radio stations on the Enayam ICTT and 4.98 lakh on creating awareness through meetings from January 18 to February 2. “Why was ₹14 lakh spent on advertisement for a project that did not kick start? We suspect 4.98 lakh was used for the BJP-backed counter protests seeking establishment of the ICTT,” he said.
 
 
