Belagavi: Leaders of   and JD(S) claimed credit for constructing the   (SVS) in Belagavi while Congress blamed both parties for failing to keep the promises made to the people of the five villages before acquiring their lands for the building. 

 Speaking at ‘Karunada Kadana’ , an interaction between intellectuals of Belagavi and politicians organized by Kannada daily Vijay Karnataka, a sister concern of The Times of India, at a private hotel here on Saturday, BJP city president   claimed credit for SVS being constructed in Belagavi. 
 
 However, JD(S) leader and former minister   said the decision of constructing SVS in Belagavi was first taken by H D Kumaraswamy when he was the chief minister. “It was the JD(S) which started holding legislature session in Belagavi and the first session was held at KLES JN Medical College,” he added. 
 
 Horatti said the building was very large, which is not needed. Besides, there is no option to shift government offices. “I suggested that 10 of the 13 meetings halls be used to run government offices but successive governments have not taken my suggestion seriously”, he added.
 
 KPCC Mahila Morcha president Lakshmi Hebbalkar gave credit building SVS to both parties but also blames them for neglecting the villagers who gave the land for the monument. “The people of Halga, Bastwad, Kondaskop, Kamakaratti and Sheganimatti were assured that there villages would be developed into smart villages and would be provided all basic facilities. The promise was never kept,” she said.
 
 Hebbalkar said Congress should be credited for 100 acres being sanctioned to KLE Society just for Re 1 by the Rajiv Gandhi government, dams being built at Rakaskop, Hidkal, Naviluteerth in the district, bringing VTU to Belagavi and upgradation of Sambra airport.
 
 BJP’s Harkuni said the B S Yeddyurappa government sanctioning Rs 100 crore for the city’s development, launching Channamma University and listing the city in the Smart City project as the BJP’s achievements. 
 
 The political leaders also answered the questions posed by delegates from different fields. The programme was conducted by Vijay Karnataka resident editor M K Hegde.
 
 
