MUMBAI: The investigation into the murder of the 21-year-old son of a police inspector at Royal Palms in Aarey Colony was transferred to unit 11 of the   on Thursday after his parents expressed dissatisfaction into the probe conducted by the Aarey police. In a six-page letter to the Mumbai   on Wednesday, the father claimed his son was ragged, tortured and sexually assaulted. He has demanded that all 30 youngsters who were at the   be “arrested for murder” and lie-detector tests be conducted on them. 

 
 The 21-year-old’s body was found next to a lake, half a kilometre from the villas where he had attended a birthday bash of a Marathi film producer’s daughter. While his body was found on May 9, forensic experts estimated that he died the previous day. There were contusions on his ribs and lungs and lacerations on his private parts. 
 
 “It’s been nine days since my son’s death but there has been no breakthrough in the case. I’m convinced that whatever happened was within the confines of bungalow no. 212 where the party was held. Youngsters who attended the party are suspects and I have mentioned the names of all 30 of them in my letter,” the father told TOI. The youth had attended the birthday party with a female friend and didn’t know the other guests. His father said his female friend got herself admitted in the ICCU of a private hospital after the incident. “She can give accurate information of what happened there, but is misleading the police. CCTV footage shows her and two other boys follow him out of the property, when he tried to run for his life,” the father claimed.
 
 After his son failed to return home from the party and his phone was switched off, the police inspector personally conducted a search for him at Royal Palms and also roped in the film producer. “The injuries...sustained cannot be caused by self harm. The line of investigation adopted by the Aarey police is not in confirmity with procedure laid down....instead of booking the culprits, they are trying to protect them as they are influential people. I do not hold any grudge against Aarey police officers,” the father stated in the letter to the police commissioner. “The questionnaire forwarded by the Aarey police to the forensic doctor involves one-sided questions for shielding the culprits. It states that my son did not sleep for three days, was exposed to the sun and had dehydration, whether he was addicted to drugs etc. The investigating team has put forth its own theories, presumptions and is being judgmental to conclude that the injuries sustained could be self inflicted. The suspects have not undergone any physical medical exam.” 
 
 The letter added: “The Aarey police lacks adequate manpower, resources, informants and logistical support to arrive at a logical conclusion...Their shoddy investigation has already destroyed vital evidence from the crime scene.”
 
