SURAT: Noble laureate   on Tuesday mooted idea for setting up of the   (NCT) in line of National Green Tribunal (NGT) for speedy trial and justice to the victims of child sexual abuse in the country.

 
 
 “It is appalling to know that every hour at least four children are sexually abused in India. For speedy trial and justice for the victim children, I appeal to the central government and the   for setting up NCT on the lines of NGT with required funds and power,” children’s right activist during his visit to the Diamond City said on Tuesday. 
 
 Satyarthi, while addressing media at the   on the sidelines of the Santokbaa humanitarian award said, “NGT has been working effectively for environmental issues in the country and industrialists are wary of that. Likewise, we need survival centric justice for the children facing sexual abuse through NCT. The speedy conviction and justice to child victims is must. Our system is such that at present rate a 10-year-old girl victimized sexually would not get justice till she is 112-year-old.” 
 
 Pinpointing at some of the industries like textiles, chocolate, mica mining, car painting, electronic industry, Satyarthi said, “Child labour is very much prevalent in these sectors. If we look at national crime bureau records, crime against children have increased by almost 14%, but there is no phenomenal increase in  . Still, I would appeal the state government to act against child labour and child sexual abuse cases.” 
 
 Talking about an incident, Satyarthi, who till now has saved more than 85,000 children from the clutches of child labour, said, “Few months ago, we rescued some Nepali girls from the clutches of the mafia who wanted them to be into flesh trade. For our act, we were severely beaten up and two of my colleagues lost their lives. Me and my son were beaten up severely and were admitted in the hospital. My whole body is marked with the wounds and I can’t lift my left hand due to injury.” 
 
 Satyarthi has appealed the parliamentarians, including the ruling BJP government and the opposition, to ensure that anti-trafficking law is passed for the welfare of children in the country. He said, “The anti-trafficking bill has been tabled in the Parliament, but it is the duty of the opposition and the ruling government to ensure that the bill is passed before the 2019 Lok Sabha election. The anti-trafficking bill will help curb human trafficking in the country,” Satyarthi said.
 
 
