MUMBAI: The   has made it mandatory for 36,000   across the state to get a complete   for submission to schools annually. The   should include eyes tests by an ophthalmologist.

 The submission is meant for road safety and should preferably be done before the commencement of the new school session this year, said sources on Tuesday.
 
 The department also stipulated that bus doors must always be closed, washing and fumigation of vehicle must be done regularly to keep mosquitoes and other pests away, and air freshner should be provided in buses.
 
 “These are mandatory as per school bus policy, but is not being observed in most buses,” a transport official said. “We want the bus operators to ensure that drivers are fit to ply buses and the vehicles are in good condition.”
 
 Father Francis Swamy, principal, St Mary’s (ICSE), Mazgaon, said the mental and physical fitness of the driver was of utmost importance as they ferried a lot of children twice a day. “We provide school bus services through our vendors but we will ensure the vendors take steps to get annual checks done,” Swamy said.
 
 Some were worried about the expense, though, and one principal from a south Mumbai school said the institution had just about raised enough funds to complete the infrastructure requirements of the school buses and expended efforts to get the police verification of all drivers done.
 
 “Getting all drivers tested annually will be another expense,” the principal said. “Our transport committee members are already conducting surprise checks to ensure that the buses are clean and safe for students.”
 
 Transport officials appealed to parents to send children by school buses and vans that had a common service agreement (CSA) with the school.
 
 “This will ensure the child’s safety,” an official said. “Avoid sending students by autos and other vehicles which do not come under the ambit of the school bus policy."
 
 Officials said every school should insist on a transport committee to look into matters pertaining to safe transportation of schoolchildren by buses. The committee is headed by the principal and its members are a PTA representative, the bus administrator of the school, a traffic police inspector of the area, an inspector or assistant inspector of motor vehicle of the area, an education inspector, a bus contractor representative and the local authority representative.
 
 
