In the latest episode of  ,   and   are trying hard to cross the mountain. They try to use the magic knife to make a way. Initially they fail but after several attempts they are able to make it.

  and   enter into the palace. Surendra wants to show how happy he is with the fact that Mallicka is the new queen. Mallicka informs that she will be out of the kingdom for a few days.
 
 Raghav and Parul are trying to climb up the mountain.
 
 Mallicka starts her journey for Khokkos Puri as she wants to kill Parul. On the other hand Nasabati is upset. She is missing her friends Parul and Raghav. Her father is trying to console her. Mallicka overhears their conversation and realises they are talking about Raghav and Parul.
 
 Parul and Raghav face a massive earthquake as they try to go further. They get worried as they might fall from the top of the mountain. Suddenly Parul identifies that a giant is coming towards them. They realise that it’s none other than Parbatrakshak. They shrink themselves so that the giant can’t see them.
 
 Mallicka disguises herself as Parul’s mother. She tells Nasabati that she is extremely worried and wants to find out Parul.
 
 Parbatrakshak can sense something is wrong. But he can’t see anything as Parul and Raghav have shrunk themselves.
 
 Nasabati is happy to meet Parul’s mother. She asks the servants to bring food for Mallicka (who is disguised as Parul's mother). But Mallicka is eager to know about Parul’s current location.
 
 She tells Nasabati that she can’t eat anything as she is worried about Parul’s safety. Nasabati tells her that she shouldn’t worry as Raghav is with her.
 
 Nasabati proudly tells how Parul saved everyone from the giant Jotabhison. Mallicka fumes inside knowing about Parul’s courage and presence of mind.
 
 Parul realises that they need to defeat Parbatrakshak in order to cross the mountain. Parul thinks of an idea, she plans to use Nidrachampak flower to make the giant drowsy.
 
 Nasabati is very happy and she wants to feed Mallicka with her hands. But the moment she intends to feed her, she senses something is wrong. Gradually she understands that Mallicka smells like a giant.
 
 Raghav throws an arrow putting a Nidrachampak flower at its tip. The giant attacks and swallows Raghav.
 
 Nasabati is sure that Mallicka can’t be Parul’s mother.
 
 Parul panics as the giant has swallowed Raghav. She finds out an idea and aims an arrow at the giant putting a Nidrachampak flowern at the tip. The giant sneezes and Raghav comes out of his mouth. Parul is relieved. 
 
 Parul and Raghav are standing in front of a river which has heavy current. They intend to jump. But Parul understands that Raghav is getting into trouble due to her. She asks him to leave. But he doesn’t want to leave her alone. They promise each other to stay together.
 
