GURUGRAM: The   has written to Gurugram Metropolitan Development   ( ) to acquire land for a trumpet interchange on the road dividing sectors 84-88. It will start from Sector 88 and end in Sector 89. NHAI technical consultant AECOM has also proposed an interchange road link to connect IMT Manesar. 

 In the letter, NHAI has mentioned that there is another proposed sector road — dividing sectors 84 and 88 — which is to be developed as an utility corridor. According to the final development plan, this road has a proposed width of 75m. Another 60m will be needed for the trumpet interchange to merge with it.
 
 According to the letter, since this road will be merging with the road to New Gurugram— providing an alternative route to IMT Manesar — it is anticipated that in years to come, traffic volume on it will be heavy, especially with traffic between Delhi and Manesar expected to rise at this particular intersection. Between Delhi and New Gurugram/IMT Manesar, this road will be an alternative to NH-8 that also has graded and separated interchange connectivity. 
 
 “The notification for acquisition of land for the trumpet interchange has already been issued by the sub-divisional magistrate. We can now proceed to acquire and give land to NHAI,” said V Umashankar, CEO, Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA). 
 
 In addition, GMDA has proposed two   interchanges on  , which the Authority expects to become the city’s main arterial road in the coming days. Earlier, there was a plan for a cloverleaf near Kherki Daula toll plaza. This has now been shifted to Sector 74A. This cloverleaf will connect Southern Peripheral Road, Central Peripheral Road and the Expressway. The design of this cloverleaf is about to be finalised. 
 
 Now, a second cloverleaf will come up at Dwarka Expressway where it crosses the Pataudi road near   in Sector 88. According to sources, the total project cost is estimated at around Rs 2,000 crore. 
 
 “There is a plan to build two cloverleaf interchanges to ease traffic flow in the city. Instructions have been issued to the concerned department to remove bottlenecks. Once these cloverleafs are built, we expect Gurugram’s traffic system to improve,” added Umashankar.
 
 
