MUMBAI: You have just one month to dispose of all the plastic bags and cutlery and thermocol that you have at home as the state-wide ban on plastics came into effect on Friday. 

 The Maharashtra government, which issued the notification, has extended the ban to PET bottles with less than 500 ml capacity. Such small bottles are widely used inside Mantralaya to serve water to visitors.
 
 However, the notification (TOI has a copy) is silent on the government's decision to levy a fine of Rs 5,000 to Rs 25,000 and a jail term of three months for violating the ban. As there is a huge opposition from several quarters against the ban, the state government, it seems, did not want to spell out the penalty at the outset.
 
 The Maharashtra Plastic and Thermocol Products (Manufacture, Usage, Sale, Transport, Handling and Storage) Notification, 2018, states that the government will be implementing the ban from the date of issues of notification, but has given traders, manufacturers and even consumers one month to dispose of the banned items in their possession. Local administrations will be asked to start collection points to accept the banned items from consumers, while traders and manufacturers will have to look for recycling facilities to dispose of their goods. TOI was the first one to report that the Maharashtra government was planning to bring a   in the state.
 
 The notification also cites a rarely used provision of the Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016, which mentions 'extended producers responsibility' to ensure creation of a collect-back system of plastic waste. 
 
 Consumers will have to pay Rs 1 and Rs 2 extra above the MRP for buying PET bottles of 500 ml and 1 litre respectively. The additional 'buy-back' price will be returned to the consumers once s/he takes the bottle back to the retailer. 
 
 “The government is looking to create a mechanism to ensure that every plastic bottle that is manufactured is recycled,” said an official.
 
 The government has also prescribed an additional charge of Rs 50paise on every  . However, the milk pouches will have to be more than 50 microns thick and diaries must make attempts to provide milk in glass bottle, the notification says.
 
 The notification mentions that the government is working on a plan to levy a refundable ‘recycle or reuse’ cess on manufacturers. If the manufacturers recycle all that they have produced, the cess will be refunded. 
 
 
