KARWAR:  ,   MLA from  , has disowned the audio clippings released on Saturday by his party colleague and MLC  . The clippings were purported to be from a recorded call allegedly made by BJP leaders to Hebbar's wife, offering Rs 15 crore and a cabinet berth to her husband if he voted for BJP in the trust vote. 

 The Congress had released three audio tapes in run up to the floor test, claiming that the BJP leaders were trying to 'poach' on the party MLAs by offering 'blandishments' so that the BS Yeddyurappa government is saved. 
 
 However, in a   post in Kanadda, Hebbar questioned the authenticity of the audio clip, saying her wife did not receive any such call.
 
 In his Facebook post late on Saturday, Hebbar wrote: "I learnt about the audio clippings of the conversation purportedly between my wife and BJP leaders later when I was in the assembly. This is neither my wife's voice nor has she received any call. I condemn whoever has released such audio clippings for political reasons. This is a fake audio tape..."
 
 The Karnataka polls threw up a hung assembly, with the BJP emerging as the single largest party, but eight short of majority. Governor Vajubhai Vala invited the BJP to form the government and Yeddyurappa was sworn in as chief minister.
 
 As the floor test approached, the Congress alleged that the BJP was indulging in horsetrading and released the audio tapes to back their charges.
 
 In the audio tape in question, B S Yeddyurappa's son BY Vijayendra and his close associate B J Puttuswamy are heard speaking purportedly to Hebbar's wife, offering money and ministerial position to her husband if he cross-voted in favour of the BJP during the floor test.
 
 Vijayendra and Puttuswamy are also heard allegedly offering Rs 15 crore for cross-voting but without a ministerial berth, or Rs 5 crore with a cabinet berth. Puttuswamy is also heard allegedly saying that cases against the wife and the son, who are facing a trial in a mining scam, would be cleared.
 
 Realising that he did not have the numbers, Yeddyurappa had on May 19 announced his decision to quit as chief minister without facing the floor test in an anti-climax to the political drama following the hung verdict in the assembly polls.
 
 Union minister and BJP's Karnataka election in-charge Prakash Javadekar had rubbished the audio tapes as 'fake.'
 
 Javadekar also had accused the Congress for releasing 'fake' audio clips to prevent the BJP from forming government. 
 
 
 
 
