KOLKATA: An altercation over 30 square feet of space in an illegal five-storeyed building on Bright Street in Karaya led to a morning shootout on the road, which left a   bleeding to death in front of his schoolgoing son, wife and sister.

 Forty-year-old Fazlur   was outside his home, on the way to drop his son to school, when rival promoter Sheikh Idris alias Bhola gunned him down in the presence of his family, associates and neighbours. The detective department arrested Bhola in the evening.
 
 The incident sparked off an angry and impromptu protest, with Rehman’s neighbours attacking Bhola’s office and garage, razing it by 11.30 am, and setting office documents on fire. They also set fire to the ground floor of his residence but cops managed to bring the situation under control. A police picket has been posted in the area.
 
 Rehman’s sister, Nusrat Begum, and business partner Md Asghar said it was around 8.10am when an agitated Bhola called out for Rehman and ask-ed him to step out of his reside-nce. “The two kept arguing over a 30-sqfoot area inside a newly constructed building that four of us, including Bhola and Rehman and me, had constructed together.,” Asghar said. In the course of the argument Bhola threatened to shoot Rehman and the latter dared him to do so. Suddenly, Bhola took out a sm-all firearm and   Rehman.
 
 Asghar said he had earlier requested both Bhola and Rehman to sit and sort out the issue. 
 
 “I told Bholabhai to settle the matter amicably. I told him not to use force, given our long association,” Nusrat said. Some of the locals also tried to break up the fight and for a few minuted it seemed saity had returned. Rehman then asked his 14-year-old son, Ehtemas, a student of class VI at Seventh Day Adventist Senior Secondary School, to finish breakfast quickly so that he could drop him to school.
 
 Another witness, Sheikh Sajid, said he was filling water from a tap right beside them when he suddenly heard Bhola saying that he would shoot Rehman. “Rehman dared him to shoot and even asked his wife,   alias Salma Bibi, to bring out his mobile so that he could record it. It was then that Bhola, who had taken out a small countrymade firearm, pointed it at Rehman’s chest and shot him from almost point-blank range,” Sajid added.
 
 “Rehman slumped to the ground. I tried to pick him up along with three others but he collapsed again after managing to walk for a couple of metres and never got up again. It was 8.40 a.m. We rushed him to SSKM Hospital where he was declared dead,” Rehman’s next-door neighbour, Sheikh Aslam, said.
 
 Cops said Bhola had returned from Baghdad on Sunday evening along and had an argument with Rehman on Monday evening. “Bhola was not a promoter but, since he owned money, we included him as one of the developers of our project,” Asghar later told TOI. But the original owners of the 800-square-foot plot claimed Bhola had no role at all while the plot exchanged hands one-and-a-half years ago. “We always knew Rehman and Asghar were the developers. We had actually turned down Bhola’s offer when he had approached us earlier,” one of them claimed.
 
 Officials said Bhola had a criminal record dating back three decades. A confidant of a senior Left Front leader, he was charged with attempted murder in a 1994 Karaya case and served a jail term after he was convicted. He also had theft cases registered against him at Gariahat, Karaya and   police stations.
 
 He came out of jail more than five years ago and then turned to promoting buildings, most of them illegal. Police said he sold off his Tiljala property and started residing with his in-laws on Bright Street, when he became close to a local Trinamool leader. “He muscled his way into this business,” explained a police official.
 
 
