AHMEDABAD: The state   (ACB) has taken a different stance against disproportionate assets (DA) cases due to which the agency has recorded eight DA cases till end of April compared to eight in 12 months of 2017. 

 Out of the eight, seven were registered in April alone. In April, cases for DA were registered against three officers of class 1, one officer of class 2 and three officer of class 3.
 
 Officials said that the new approach entails ‘one day DA’ where the officials account for the government official’s overall assets and compare it with the seizure at the spot. If the seizure is way higher than the average without any plausible explanation, ACB registers a DA case.
 
 “Vikesh Upadhyay, deputy collector posted in  , was apprehended with Rs 90,000 cash from his bag. K S Detroja, managing director of   (GLDC), was caught with Rs 1.28 lakh cash from his office and in the same case Shailesh Shah, company secretary (CS) posted as deputy manager (finance) was found with Rs 70,000 cash. In all these cases involving class 1 officers, we have registered one-day DA cases as the amount was unaccounted for,” said an ACB official.
 
 Earlier, ACB used to lodge DA case complaint after creating an inventory of the assets and liabilities of the officer in question and count the difference to ascertain scope of assets which did not have any explanation. The process would account for at least a decade or more.
 
 ACB registered two such cases in April against Chamanlal Vaghela, a primary teacher in Deesa, Banaskantha, for DA of Rs 82.33 lakh and Anil Aniyaliya, talati-cum-mantri, posted in Botad, for DA of Rs 10.29 lakh. 
 
 “Under guidance of in-charge director Keshav Kumar, the focus got shifted from the trap cases to DA and misuse of power. While the entire 2017 had 13 accused from class 1 ranks, the four months of 2018 has 11 accused. In cases such as GLDC, the officials and personnel of different classes have been found hand in glove,” said an official.
 
 
  
 
 Corruption in the times of water scarcity
 
 ACB officials said that in the recent past, they have registered a few cases directly related to water storage even as the state government has started a major campaign to save every drop this monsoon.
 
 On May 2, Bavchand Vadodariya, additional assistant engineer posted in Amreli, was caught taking Rs 1 lakh bribe at Amreli market yard earlier this month. Vadodariya had allegedly asked the money for not taking action against those responsible for construction of protective wall in farms for storage of water. Likewise, a sarpanch, her father-in-law and president of water committee were named in an FIR on April 24. According to the complaint, the accused had demanded Rs 50,000 for releasing bill amount of Rs 8.53 lakh to lay water supply pipes in Jodhpur village of  . In March, Bhuj ACB unearthed a major scam of constructing farm ponds — only on paper — where Rs 1.79 lakh was paid in Bhimasar village of Rapar taluka of Kutch.
 
 
