NOIDA: The family of a 32-year-old  , who was   in a   in Greater Noida on Monday night, has refused to accept his body for the last rites. 

 Sanjay, a resident of Haryana’s Karnal, was wanted in around 40 cases of loot and murder in NCR, and carried a reward of Rs 25,000 on his head.
 
 “He was involved in criminal activities and his family members were troubled over this. His father   passed away a few years ago. We had no ties with him,” said Babu Ram, Sanjay’s uncle. 
 
 However, Ajay Kumar Sharma, SHO of Bisrakh police station and in-charge of the anti-extortion cell that shot Sanjay, said: “We will again try to convince his family members to receive the body.” According to Sharma, the gangster had been involved in criminal activities, including extortion, for over 10 years. 
 
 The police also shared a video statement of the deceased’s village head, Vikram Kumar, in which he said local people had no sympathy for him. “He had troubled local residents. This is why we do not want to accept his body for last rites,” he said.
 
 Police investigation has revealed Sanjay was arrested in a case of theft in 2003 and sent to judicial custody. “In the jail, he met dreaded gangster Mukeem Kala and joined his gang. He later also joined hands with Anil Dujana gang and started committing crimes in Noida and Greater Noida. He used to extort money from local businessmen,” said Sharma.
 
 According to cops, the criminal had demanded Rs 50 lakh from a local BJP functionary, Pushkar Pratap Singh, in Greater Noida. The victim informed police and got a case registered at Kasna police station.
 
 “On Monday again, the accused called the BJP functionary and demanded money. A police team traced his location near Sigma 4 site at night. He was shot in the chest during an encounter. He was admitted to the district hospital where he died during treatment,” said another police officer. “His accomplice, however, managed to escape. We have recovered a mobile phone, two revolvers, a bike and some live cartridges from his possession,” he said.
 
 
