NEW DELHI: Even as Delhi health minister   himself gave out no statement on the   claiming the   of   and bank deposits slips linked to him from the residence of   registrar Rishiraj, Delhi government and Aam Aadmi Party countered the agency’s allegations and labelled them as “lies”, arguing that the papers cited had been seized last year from the minister’s residence.

 “CBI should tell us what new discovery it has made and how the documents it seized and showed in its seizure memo of August 25 after the raid on Jain's residence were found at Rishiraj's premises because the latter is not known to the minister,” a top government source said on Monday, alluding to documents that detailed the materials retrieved by the investigating agency in last year’s raid.
 
 Government sources insisted that the companies named by CBI have been regularly filing their income tax returns. Deepak Bajpai, AAP treasurer, added, “The share holdings in the properties in question were already disclosed by Jain in his election affidavit and in his tax returns, and the related documents were taken by CBI in last year's raid on his residence. His transactions were clean because no cash was involved, all of them being through cheques with no involvement of any strange account.”
 
 The government sources also asserted that this financial matter pertained to 2011 and 2011-12 when Jain was working as a professional architect and had not entered politics. “They have already questioned him (Jain) several times and have already taken all the documents and their fresh claims are a farce,” Bajpai argued. So far CBI has not approached Jain for questioning, sources said.
 
 On Sunday, CBI claimed that during its search at Rishiraj’s residence, it had recovered property documents and   for around Rs 2 crore allegedly linked to Jain and companies of which he was director. Soon after, Delhi government spokesperson Nagendra Sharma took to twitter to say that Satyendar Jain was “being framed”. He said Jain had no link with the registrar and that BJP had been unable to find anything against the minister in the other cases so far, so it was now hatching a new conspiracy. “In fact, in the other cases against Jain, the BJP government has been pulled up by the Delhi high court,” Sharma tweeted.
 
 Saurabh Bharadwaj, chief spokesperson of the Delhi unit of AAP, reiterated the papers CBI referred to revealed nothing new. “BJP government is only trying to taint Satyendar Jain’s image,” Bharadwaj declared.
 
 
