PUNE: Justice  , the former chairman of the   (NGT), believes the government, public and other stakeholders must come together to resolve the environment issues and achieve sustainable development. 

 He said the “environmental triangle” in the Indian Constitution — Article 51A (g), Article 47 and Article 21— is the complete solution to all environmental problems in the country.
 
 Talking about the solid waste management issues in Pune, Kumar said, “The city has been facing severe solid waste management issues. One can see a lot of garbage lying around in the city areas. The government bodies, public and other stakeholders must come together to address the issue. People must make an effort to segregate garbage. The solution requires a collective effort and a channelized system.”
 
 He cautioned that landfills and reclaimed lands are not the answers to solid waste management problems. Citing the example of Delhi, Kumar said, “All landfill sites in Delhi have been exhausted and reclaimed lands could not address the garbage problem. Finally, they decentralized waste disposal system. Three plants have been set up to process waste in Delhi. These plants are beautiful and they actually resemble parks. Such things are possible if one has the will.”
 
 Kumar was talking on the sidelines of the day-long conference on ‘Recent Techno-Legal Strategies for Tidy Environment’ that was organized by the   of India, in association with   and NGT Bar Association, Western zone bench.
 
 “No one is opposed to development, what we want is sustainable development. There is a need for environmental awareness and consciousness among people,” Kumar added. During his address, reminded everyone that we were once a very environmentally conscious community. “Where did we go wrong? We chant ‘Har Har Gange’ but dirty the river at the same time. It has been scientifically proven that water of the River Ganga has healing abilities that can treat dirty water. However, we continue to pollute the river. Industrialization for development is inevitable, but it leads to pollution. There is a need to make sure that it does not cause avoidable pollution,” he added.
 
 
