LUCKNOW: Toilets constructed by   fall short not only in number but also of the minimum requirement under the guidelines of   (SBM).

 Blatantly ignoring the norms set by the Centre’s programme, public toilets constructed by   lack basic facilities for the disabled and children. Besides, the corporation has been able to meet only one-fourth of the target of the mission launched in 2014.
 
 
 Building public/community toilets in areas facing chronic open defecation was the prime target of   had to survey these areas and build the required number of toilets there. LMC’s survey suggested building around 90 toilets in such areas. However, LMC has made only 25 toilets till date despite receiving Rs 1.2 crore from the Centre as the first instalment since.
 
 
 The biggest blunder committed by the corporation while building these toilets is that it has ignored the mission’s basic guideline of providing a ramp near the stairs to facilitate access to the disabled. Secondly, LMC has not made any low-height urinals mandated for children. Besides, SBM also mandates that toilets have proper arrangement of water supply, electricity and ventilation.
 
 
 TOI checked around a dozen public toilets in Hazratganj, Jankipuram, Gomtinagar and Narhi but could not find even a single one with a ramp or a low-height urinal. Even sanitary fixtures were shoddy at a few places.
 
 
 An official in charge of SBM at LMC said, “Construction has been slow because we haven’t received the required funds from the Centre. We are waiting for approximately Rs 7 crore more this year. As far as ramps and low height urinals are concerned, we will improve the toilets later when funds are received.”
 
 
 LMC had announced it would make Lucknow open defecation-free (ODF) by November 2017 but the claim fell flat in the SBM survey of 2018. The city failed to not only declare itself ODF, but also fared poorly in the sanitation parameters because the target of constructing toilets was not met. The corporation is now aiming to achieve the target by May 2018, five months before the   ends in October.
 
