MYSURU: In what is being seen by the medical community as a huge boost for  , the 350-bed Sri Jayadeva Institute Cardiovascular Sciences and Research is all set to be inaugurated by chief minister Siddaramaiah on Tuesday (March 6). However, the hospital will open to the public, and operations begin only four to five weeks later.

 The facility has been built on the   campus on   at the cost of Rs 210 crore. A government hospital, the opening of the institute in Mysuru will save patients, particularly those from underprivileged communities, the trouble of having to visit private hospitals or the   in Bengaluru for advanced cardio treatment such as open-heart surgeries, angioplasty and angiogram.
 
 Senior cardiologist and director of Jayadeva Hospital in Bengaluru Dr CN Manjunath told TOI, “While the state government has provided Rs 150 crore for the construction of the facility in Mysuru, Jayadeva Institute has financed the rest. This is unique insofar as a government institution making a contribution to itself.”
 
 He added that the new hospital would not face any shortage of staff and specialist doctors. “No patient who visits the hospital will return untreated because of money. Commitment first, money next,” Dr Manjuanth said.
 
 Since 2010, Jayadeva Hospital in the city has been operating out of the Krishna Rajendra Hospital premises, where 4.5 lakh patients have undergone treatment in the past eight years.
 
 Heart problems account for 25% of deaths across India
 
 Pointing out that heart-related problems accounted for 25% of the deaths reported across India, Dr Manjunath said, “Nearly 25% of the people in India ailing from heart-related problems are below 40. Smoking, hypertension, diabetes, cholesterol and hereditary factors are among some of the causes for heart problems. Alarming levels of air pollution too is one of the factors.”
 
 ‘Use social media to seek medical assistance’
 
 Calling upon the public to use social media platforms to seek help from doctors, Dr Manjunath said, “If doctors cannot be found, particularly during weekends, the friends and family members of the patient can use social media platforms including WhatsApp to send reports including ECG. This way, senior doctors can guide those treating the patient.”
 
 Ambedkar statue at Town Hall to be unveiled
 
 Chief minister Siddaramaiah will also inaugurate the trauma care unit, built at the cost of Rs 25 crore, and the urology unit (Rs 8 crore) at  . The urology unit will be equipped with as many as 22 dialysis units, besides which facilities for kidney transplantation too will be available. He will also inaugurate a gas-insulated station at Saraswathipuram and unveil the statue of Dr BR Ambedkar at Town Hall on Tuesday. He will also lay the foundation stone for a super specialty hospital that is being constructed at the cost of Rs 168.52 crore on KRS Road.
 
 
