For anyone who crossed the Pantheon Road in Egmore on Thursday afternoon, it was hard to miss the sea of yellow in the ground of Don Bosco Matriculation Higher Secondary School. With the cricket calendar getting busier with summer around the corner and the start of Indian Premier League (IPL) from April, fans of   (CSK) are going all out, showing their excitement about the team’s return to the league after two years. During this TV shoot they all turned up in the jersey that read, ‘Thirumbi Vandhutenu Sollu’ and interacted with CSK’s new player  , former   player   and the team’s bowling coach  . 
The trio — Rayudu, Badrinath and Balaji — was excited about sharing with the fans their thoughts about the new team, key players and interesting moments with captain MS Dhoni. Badrinath got the interaction started and said, “CSK with a mix of experienced and younger talents under MS Dhoni looks like one of the strongest contenders this season. And it feels great to interact with the team’s fans through Game Plan in Your City.” The name MS Dhoni was discussed the most by the fans and they were excited to hear more about Thala Dhoni from them. “MS is a brand in himself in Chennai. He is the adopted son of the soil. He’s is the reason for what Chennai Super Kings is today. And MS is rightly named Thala,” stated Badrinath.
 Adding to Badrinath’s comments about Dhoni, Balaji said, “Definitely, there’s no better person that MS Dhoni to lead the side. He’s someone whom you can bet on and say that he will take the team to a different level even if the team is coming back to the league after a two-year sabbatical. He creates situations and wins the game for the team.”
 Meanwhile, Rayudu opined that it is Dhoni’s quality to adapt quickly with the youngsters that make him special. “He spends a lot of time with youngsters. It comes quite naturally to him. He doesn’t have to force himself to speak to youngsters. Even they always want to be around him as he’s very approachable and they can learn a lot from him. Very rarely a country produces a sportsperson like him,” Rayudu said. He added saying that Dhoni is quite cheeky even on field. “Once, I was not anticipating the ball well in covers. And the previous day we played volleyball and Dhoni told me from behind the stumps, ‘Volleyball kadham hogaya!’ He’s has a very subtle way of putting things across,” shared Rayudu, with a smile.
 When someone mentioned that on many occasions you find Dhoni controlling the game even if Virat Kohli is the captain, Rayudu said, “It’s not only Virat, all of us have learnt a lot from Dhoni bhai, and therefore, it is natural to walk up to him for advice when you find yourself in a tough situation.” And Dhoni the power hitter? “Dhoni is the hardest hitter of the ball. Especially, during his initial years, he would hit the ball like nobody’s business. What you see today is nothing compared to that.” Then, Badrinath interrupted and shared one of those instances when he was actually hit of a Dhoni ball. “It was a match against KKR. I was at the non-strikers end. I didn’t have the time to react before it hit me. It hit my tummy so hard that I thought I died right there on the field (laughing).”
 As the interaction veered to other things, fans wanted to hear from the expert trio about the new team’s composition. “Now, when you look at CSK’s fast bowling department, it lacks a bit of experience, but that’s where MS steps in to play,” said Badrinath. And when asked how young players like Shardul Thakur and Deepak Chahar would make a difference to the team, Balaji said, “Now, Shardul Thakur is among the top few in the country. I’ve spent a lot of time with him in the Punjab team. He’s a fearless blower and someone who wants to bowl during anytime of the innings. Also, he has developed a lot of new variations — knuckleball, little bit of short bouncers, etc.” Talking about Deepak Chahar, Badrinath, said, “I’ve played against him. He has the ability to move the ball both ways. Especially, he has got good in swing. MS feels that when you have a good in swinger it adds to the T20 team.” 
 Meanwhile, both Balaji and Badrinath mentioned that Suresh Raina and Ravindra Jadeja will continue to be the key players for the team this season as well. “Raina is the best T20 cricketer I’ve seen. Whenever CSK had big run chases or setting a huge target in the previous editions, Raina had always been a key player for them. He’s like the backbone of CSK, coming in at No 3, which the crucial spot as far as T20 cricket is concerned. Another thing is that he’s an excellent runner between the wickets.” said Badrinath. “And Jadeja is just like Raina — a complete package. Ever since he has started playing for CSK, his bowling standards have improved a lot. He’s someone who create wicket-taking opportunities. He makes unconventional run outs and changes the course of a match. And when you have Raina, Jadeja and Bravo, it adds a lot of strength to fielding,” added Balaji.
 
