KOLKATA: The   on Sunday announced former Trinamool Congress MLA   as its candidate for the Noapara assembly constituency bypoll, though Basu chose to keep mum, leaving the state BJP on tenterhooks. Failing to contact her after the announcement, the BJP leaders accused the Trinamool of arm-twisting their candidate.  , however, denied the charge.

 Basu's name was announced by BJP's secretary of Central Election Committee on Sunday afternoon, after the state leadership cleared the decks for her candidature. While TOI tried to get in touch with her, repeated phone calls went unanswered. By late evening, BJP leader Mukul Roy said his party candidates were being armtwisted by TMC. "We have news that she is being intimidated by TMC. It is a slaughter of democracy. She is not even in a position to talk," Roy said.
 
 Brushing aside the allegations, Trinamool's Bhatpara MLA Arjun Singh said, "Party leadership will speak on any such allegation."
 
 Last week, the day BJP leaders expected her to formally join the party, she failed to turn up at the state BJP headquarters at 6 Muralidhar Sen Lane. The two-time Trinamool MLA had aired her grievances against the TMC and met Roy a few days back. She had also met BJP's national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya last week.
 
 The BJP is expecting a spike in votes from Noapara after the substantial gain in vote share during the last assembly election.
 
 BJP's national secretary Rahul Sinha on Sunday alleged a breakdown of law and order situation in Bengal while addressing a rally at the Uluberia. "How will the government ensure safety to people when an officer on duty is beaten up brutally?" he said while taking a dig at the attack on Shyampur officer-in-charge Suman Das. Sinha on Sunday shared the dais with Ishrat Jahan, one of the petitioners in the triple talaq case.
 
 Meanwhile, RSS joint general secretary V Bhagaiah addressed a rally at Andul after court permition. "People beating up an OC is not a usual sight. This violence cannot continue for long and people have to be united to stop such incidents," he said.
 
 
  
 
 
