Political uncertainty in the state government in 2017 left the city corporation rudderless for the first time in more than 20 years. Ever since the elected council under former mayor Saidai S Duraisamy vacated Ripon Buildings in October 2016, Greater Chennai Corporation’s day-to-day affairs have been managed by a special officer. During this period, save for the expansion of the city’s metropolitan area, there have been no watershed moments. In fact, the civic body has been mired in trouble and infrastructure development was unnoticeable because the corporation had no money to spend.

 The New Year brings renewed hope that the state government would hold the local body elections. With an elected council in place, the city’s administrators could steer the development narrative based on the following agenda.
 
 Restructuring George Town with urban renewal
 
 The expansion of the Chennai Metropolitan Area till Arakkonam, as proposed, will result in an unmanageable strain on resources like water. What is the point in extending the metropolis to include the peripheries, when it is not certain that the government can provide the infrastructure demands? The only thing expansion guarantees is more projects which offer scope to mint money.
 
 The city should look at redevelopment of older parts like George Town and embrace urban renewal as a policy. George Town has dozens of blighted buildings which, if redeveloped, could decongest the area. Urban renewal will help the city corporation conserve heritage buildings and open up lung spaces. Because urban renewal is a cumbersome process, city governments in India have refrained from broaching the topic. But residents should be sensitised to the fact that they stand to gain from such a project by becoming shareholders.
 
 An umbrella body for departments
 
 Mindless bifurcation and trifurcation of departments have brought us to a situation where inter-departmental coordination doesn’t exist. For example, in the 1970s, rural development and municipal administration subjects were dealt with by the same ministry. Today, both subjects are under two different ministries. Bifurcation also leads to dilution of intended purpose. A good example is the Tamil Nadu Housing Board which was constituted for the purpose of making available serviced plots. Bifurcation of the ministry, which initially controlled the board, led to change in objectives. Now, the board constructs buildings too. For these reasons, it is paramount that civic infrastructure-related activities are brought under one umbrella, to be planned and executed by a single agency — Greater Chennai Corporation.
 
 N V Rakhunath, former chief planner, CMDA
 
 Rainwater harvesting
 
 City residents have not learned lessons from the 2015 floods. I fail to grasp why we still haven’t embraced rainwater harvesting (RWH) which helps replenish the groundwater table. When the monsoon failed us in 2016, families who practised RWH were saved from the drought in 2017. The government should make third-party monitoring of RWH mandatory in the city and introduce penalty on defaulters. Despite decent rainfall from the northeast monsoon, water tanker movement in the city is already high. This shows that neither piped supply nor the groundwater table has improved. The focus should also shift from championing construction of RWH pits to RWH wells, because the latter is maintainable. The corporation should also encourage driveway run-off harvesting besides rooftop water collection. Water metering should be introduced. Only if a price is slapped on water will we be able to check its exploitation.
 
 Sekhar Raghavan, RWH expert and director, Rain Centre
 
 Waste segregation at source
 
 The city has left a gaping hole in terms of compliance with the tenets of Solid Waste Management (SWM) Rules, 2016. De-centralisation of waste processing, one of the key aspects of SWM, should be adopted. The government should come up with a phase-out plan for landfills. The solution to increasing waste generation is not to increase waste handling capacity at the landfills by setting up an incinerator. Incineration also requires landfill space to dump the ash and may go kaput if organic waste is not segregated. The corporation has to ensure 100% source segregation. Responsibility must be placed on the producer of plastic material, and not the consumer or the local body. This could force plastic manufacturers to explore manufacturing sustainable plastic products. Above all, the corporation should set a biennial agenda or action plan. The problem is that engineers here do not believe in social solutions and engaging the public in policy making.
 
 Dharmesh Shah, environmental activist and policy adviser to Global Alliance for Incinerator Alternatives
 
 An accountable administration 
 
 Transparency is missing among the political class and bureaucrats. For instance, holding a public meeting to discuss an infrastructure project is crucial. The corporation holds such meetings selectively only because the funding agency or the central government would have mandated it. The ombudsman for local bodies does not seem to help. The ombudsman hardly uses powers vested in it and is at risk of becoming redundant. Even when presented with prima facie evidence of corruption, a DVAC inquiry is not ordered. Within the corporation too there is hardly any departmental action or inquiry initiated based on maladministration complaints.
 
 Jayaram Venkatesan, activist and convener of Arappor Iyakkam
 
 (As told to Pradeep Kumar)
 
 
