PHAGWARA: Even as the official machinery has been trying to find a way out of ease the tense situation arisen after the violent clash between right wing Hindu groups and the local Dalits 10 days ago, various groups are meeting in town on Monday to discuss their respective future strategies.

 Two Dalit activists had sustained bullet injuries in the group clash on the night of April 13 over renaming of a roundabout in Phagwara.
 
 Meanwhile, heavy deployment of Punjab Police and paramilitary personnel continues in the town where situation is peaceful but tension is palpable.
 
 The   (BSP) is holding a protest,   leader Jarnail   and several Dalit groups are holding a separate meeting of the Dalit groups at   gurdwara.
 
 The   is also holding a meeting on the issue on Monday.
 
 Senior BSP leader Sukhwinder Kotli said apart from holding the meeting, they also intend to take out a procession to protest against the failure of the police to arrest the remaining accused and for removal of charges against the Dalit activists who were not guilty of those. “Action should be according to the guilt of a person. How can Dalit activists be booked for attempt to murder even as they were on the receiving end of bullets?” Kotli asked.
 
 However, Kapurthala DC Mohammad Tayyab said they would not allow any procession by any group or party. He expressed confidence that situation would remain normal on Monday. “We have enough deployment of police and paramilitary forces and we are keeping vigil on everything,” he said.
 
 Other Dalit groups would be holding a separate meeting at Guru Ravidass gurdwara Chak Hakeem in which some Dalit saints are also expected to participate. “The officials had promised to remove the sections wrongly slapped against the Dalit activists; to remove names of those who were not even present during the confrontation and to arrest the remaining accused from the Hindu groups who had fired at the Dalits. These promises were not fulfilled. So, in the meeting, the groups will be discussing the next strategy,” said Nangal, whose name also figures in the FIR.
 
 On the other hand, General Samaj Manch general secretary Girish Sharma alleged the police had arrested the accused from one group and no action was taken against the accused Dalits even as they had triggered the trouble by illegally installing a hoarding. “We shall be discussing our further strategy as the police action was lopsided,” he added.
 
 
