Kolkata: Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s recent visit to Wuhan has not only ironed out all creases in the India-China relationship, but has also opened the floodgates of opportunities for Bengal. 

 Modi has charted eight areas of co-operation between the countries, which the Chinese consulate here will follow while bringing investors to Bengal, consul general Ma Zhanwu said on Monday. He spoke on the sidelines of a media conference called to announce the visit of a 60-university team that will be here to promote educational exchanges on May 10-11.
 
 In the past two and a half years, Chinese investment worth several “dozens of crores” of dollars has happened in Bengal in manufacturing, power generation, machinery, food processing and electronics, Ma said, adding this will now increase manifold.
 
 “If I have understood correctly, PM Modi has given a clear-cut direction in the areas in which the two countries need to co-operate. We have welcomed the suggestions. Following that line, in Bengal, too, we will have investments/exchanges in spirituality, sports, nature conservation, entertainment, touri-sm, energy, health and healing,” Ma said. He stressed the geo-proximity with Yunnan province, which made Bengal an obvious choice for a range of Chinese investors.
 
 Soccer is an area of immediate connect for Bengal and China, he pointed out, and exchanges between players and clubs might start soon, he hinted. Films and entertainment also provide opportunities for immediate connect.
 
 If things go according to plan, Modi and Chinese President   Jinping will meet many more times in the near future to chart out how the two countries will work for peace and greater understanding. Xi may even visit India next year. 
 
 “Chinese and Indians are spiritually connected, as PM Modi has put it correctly, and even in times of tension, the deep respect we have for Indians didn’t get erased. We continued with visits of Chinese investors and delegations to Bengal without any break,” Ma said.
 
 The education expo will see 60 universities from 11 provinces participating, including Nanjing University, Xian Jiaotong University, Northwest University and Sichuan University of Science and Technology. Nearly 20,000 Indians join Chinese universities every year, at least 2,000 of them from Bengal, according to visa details available at the consulate. 
 
 
