GAYA: Chief minister   said on Tuesday his government was committed to providing basic amenities to every household with top priority to the villages dominated by people belonging to scheduled castes and scheduled tribes.

 “Do not lose your heart and don’t allow yourself to become tools in the hands of schemers. Simultaneous execution of the schemes is simply not possible and as such my government has decided to do it in a phased manner to complete it during the coming four years,” Nitish said while addressing people at Lao village in   block after inaugurating and laying the foundation for 225 schemes worth Rs506 crore. Whereas 56 of the schemes have already been completed at a cost of Rs87.51 crore and were inaugurated, foundation was laid for the remaining 179 schemes with an estimated outlay of Rs418 crore. 
 
 The CM took a round of one of the eight wards of Lao village to inaugurate its conversion into model colony with facilities like toilet, power connection, tap water and concrete lanes and drains. “Providing these amenities is a part of our ‘Saat Nishchay’ programme,” he said.
 
 Eulogizing the importance of decentralized/micro planning, the CM said even if the government used all its resources, not more than 22% of the population would have got tap water through macro development route. Decentralization was the only way and, as such, the people would have to cooperate and bear with patience, he said.
 
 “We involved the panchayats and urban local bodies and asked them to target two-three wards under their jurisdiction in a year, with the localities having a greater population of SCs and STs being accorded the top priority,” the CM said. “This way, we will cover every nook and corner of the state in four years. This cannot be ensured if I remain in Patna. Hence, I undertake such yatras to review the progress of the schemes,” he said on the first day of his fifth phase of ‘Vikas Samiksha Yatra’.
 
 Warning bootleggers, the CM said prohibition was here to stay and those tempted to smuggle liquor would come to grief. 
 
 Earlier in the programme, Aurangabad MP Sushil Singh demanded further strengthening of the prohibition machinery.
 
 Nitish also approved local MLA Abhay Kushwaha’s demand to construct a check dam on Morhar river. He also directed officials to conduct excavation work in Lao village to unearth its heritage. “Lao is the land of saint Lavanya and the village has Sundershahgarh mound where two statues of Lord Buddha and several antiquities have been found. I have instructed the officials for its further excavation,” Nitish said. 
 
 The CM said the government would help organic farmers and spend Rs1.54 lakh crore on the execution of the agriculture road map in the next five years. It would also benefit landless agricultural workers and sharecroppers, he said.
 
 
