Hyderabad: Former Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Duvvuri   on Wednesday batted for the controversial Financial Resolution and Deposit Insurance (FRDI) Bill, which is yet to be tabled in Parliament but has already caused a great deal of anxiety among the masses, who fear loss of deposits in the case of banks going bust. 

 “I am supportive of the Bill for the reason that in public finance, suppose a bank goes down the drain and the government comes and supports it… if the government puts in … say for example Rs 5,000-10,000 crore to rescue the bank and protect the depositors, where is this money coming from? It is from the tax payers. So what you are saying is that that depositors of a bank must be protected at national expense?,” he said while fielding a question after delivering a lecture on ‘RBI: Making a Difference To Everyday Lives’ at the ‘SR Sankaran Memorial Lecture’ at the National Institute of Rural Development and Panchayati Raj in Hyderabad.
 
 The FRDI Bill is an outcome of global consensus that every country must have a mechanism for bank resolution and the depositors must accept liability for their deposits, he said, citing the example of Cyprus, where in 2012 the EU had resolved that bank depositors too will have to pay the costs of stabilizing banks. 
 
 “I think we must accept the principle that bank depositors must accept the liability…they won’t be the first charge, as the first charge will be on the owners of the bank capital, then secured creditors, unsecured creditors … but to believe that the government must rescue every bank at the expense of the exchequer, I think is wrong,” he explained.
 
 On demonetisation, he pointed out that there has been “intense criticism” as well as “enthusiastic praise” of the bold move. The former RBI chief said that demonetisation came at a time when the economy was slowing down and the move further hit the economic growth of the country. However, in the long-term, he expects demonetisation to benefit the macro economy as the move is expected to reduce corruption, shift physical savings to financial savings and transition to digital economy (which brings efficiencies). “These macroeconomic benefits will come only if we are able to choke the regeneration of black money…what demonetisation did was to kill black money, if at all and at a point of time…,” he added. 
 
 Speaking about crypto-currencies such as Bitcoin, he said there are several opinions but he feels the time is not apt to take a decisive action on these crypto-currencies. 
 
 BOX:
 
 SUBBARAO ON MALLYA 
 
 “NPAs are a result of a number of developments in the country and not just crony capitalism….Although Vijay Mallya is one of the most high-profile symbols of crony capitalism, he is not the worst corny capitalist. They are many others who have defaulted much more. Vijay Mallya, because he was very flamboyant and high-profile, has become a symbol of crony capitalism.”
 
 
