SURAT: Sachin GIDC, which houses textile, chemical, engineering, textile processing and textile ancillary units, is weaving a success story of becoming Gujarat’s first model industrial estate in the next one year. 

 Sachin   (SICSL) and the notified area authority have embarked upon to undertake physical, social and service infrastructure development works worth Rs 300 crore. 
 
 At present, about 2,000 LED streetlights have been installed in the estate at the cost of Rs 3.25 crore. All main roads, lanes and bylanes in the estate are marked with signboards displaying plot numbers and directions. 
 
 Recently, the state government approved underground cabling network of low and high tension cables for the entire 11-kilowatt overhead electricity lines of the estate at the cost of Rs 44 crore under the assistance to industrial infrastructure (AII) scheme. 
 
 The state government will be providing a grant of Rs 25 crore, chief officer of Sachin notified area authority will spend Rs 10 crore and Dakshin   Vij Company Ltd (DGVCL) will contribute Rs 8 crore for the underground network.
 
 Apart from this, construction of 1.8km long cement concrete (CC) entry roads is going on in full swing. Out of the total 34,500 sq mt CC road construction, 20,000 sq mt is already completed. Moreover, the lanes and bylanes have already been re-carpeted with asphalt roads. 
 
 SICSL secretary   told TOI, “Sachin GIDC is first to have a foolproof network of high-resolution CCTV cameras. We have installed 70 CCTV cameras, which include four bullet cameras that rotate at 360 degree angle and are equipped with night vision.” 
 
 Golawala said beautification of six traffic islands, providing free Wi-Fi services to the unit owners of the estate, shuttle-bus service for workers employed there, setting up of state-of-the-art hospital, mobile app dedicated to services rendered by the SICSL, landscaping of 18 common open plots (COPs), etc, also have been planned. 
 
 Moreover, the state government has allocated Rs 3 crore for construction of fire station and staff quarters at Sachin GIDC. 
 
 At present, there are 2,250 units — including 1,750 textile units, 70 textile dyeing and printing mills, 40 dyes and chemical units, 50 engineering units and the rest are textile ancillary units. 
 
 Sachin GIDC has annual turnover exceeding Rs 8,000 crore and it provides direct employment to over 3 lakh people, which include majority of workers employed in the textile, chemical, textile processing and engineering units. 
 
 “The notified authority generates Rs 18 crore income from taxes collected from unit owners per annum. At present, the notified authority is sitting on total savings of over Rs 150 crore. We want to utilize this fund for developing smart infrastructure,” Golwala said.
 
 
