Nagpur: While Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) may be eager to hand over its loss-making city bus service to MahaMetro, the latter is not ready to take it over at this stage.  According to MahaMetro managing director Brijesh Dixit, the ideal time for taking over the service would have been after completion of phase II of Nagpur Metro. “However, we are ready to consider the proposal when we are nearing the completion of phase I, which is months away. Right now, we are busy in construction work. Our feeder services will also be launched at that time,” he told TOI. According to a UK-based consultant Grant Thorton India, integration of Metro and city bus service and its operation by a single authority is the best way for running transport services. The study was sponsored by Nagpur Smart and Sustainable City Development Corporation Limited (NSSCDCL) of the NMC. Dixit made it clear that NMC’s request alone won’t do. “We must get a directive from the state government. It must enact necessary legislation so that we can run city buses smoothly. We should also be provided the necessary infrastructure like depots, repair workshops, bus stops, etc,” he said. The MD said that in-principle he was in favour of taking over the city bus service. “Integration of all modes of urban transport under unified metropolitan transport authority (UMTA) is a long-term goal. Many cities in the world have done it successfully. However, in India the whole field is fragmented with some services being run by central government and others by state and local bodies. This needs to be changed through necessary legislation. We have no problem if Nagpur is the pilot city for such a system,” he added. Dixit said that another option was to run the city bus service jointly with NMC. This option is also being considered by the civic body but it is the second choice. City bus service’s revenue is less than 50% of the expenditure. Consequently, NMC is not able to run the required number of buses. Its three Red bus operators are supposed to ply 487 buses. Currently, they are plying only 375. The Green bus operator is supposed to run 55 buses. The actual number is 25.