CHANDIGARH: The district consumer disputes redressal forum directed   health insurance company to pay Rs 1.08 lakh compensation for repudiating the claim of Sector 18-based resident. 

 They were also asked to pay the claim of Rs 7 lakh along with 9% interest. 
 
 The complainant,  , stated in his complaint that in 2011, he had purchased a health insurance policy named ‘Family First Gold’ (cashless treatment) for his father, mother, spouse, his two sons and himself. The policy was renewed from time to time, on making the payment of the premium. It was stated that during the period of subsistence of the said policy — October 10, 2015 to October 9, 2016 — his mother received treatment and also got investigations done at various hospitals, for carcinoma of the buccal mucosa, Keratinizing-type squamous cell carcinoma, which had been diagnosed by the surgical pathology department of the PGI, Chandigarh on March 11, 2016, for which an amount of Rs 15,81,499 was spent by him, which included regular follow-ups with the doctors concerned.
 
 However, when the claim for medical reimbursement of the said amount was raised before the opposite parties, it was repudiated by them on April 15, 2016, on the ground that there had been a non-disclosure of pre-existing illness/medical conditions on the part of the insured, at the time of filling up proposal form, for obtaining the said policy.
 
 It was further stated that not even the insurance policy, in question, was illegally cancelled by the company but they also forfeited the premium paid. Goyal also said that at the time of issuance of the said policy, the medical examiner deputed by the insurance company declared that there is nothing, which might unfavorably affect insurability, as far as the insurance policy, in question, is concerned. Even the gums, teeth and tongue of the mother of the complainant were declared ‘healthy’.
 
 The company in its favour stated that the mother of the complainant did not disclose the correct information about her health and therefore the claim, in question, was rightly repudiated. It was further stated that, before issuance of the policy, in question, only general tests like blood, urine, ECG etc. of the insured, based on the information provided in the proposal form were conducted.
 
 The forum after scrutinizing the facts concluded that the insurance company failed to produce cogent evidence to prove that prior to the date of taking the policy, the insured was suffering from epilepsy or tuberculosis and was getting any treatment and that fact was in her knowledge and she intentionally concealed the same.
 
 The company was then directed to restore the policy in favour of the complainant and his family members after adjusting the premium, if any, already paid by him and/or on receiving payment of premium, if due towards him. The company was directed to pay an amount of Rs 7 lakh to the complainant, along with 9% interest from the date of its repudiation. The forum has also asked the company to pay compensation of Rs 75,000 for causing mental agony and physical harassment and Rs 33,000 as litigation cost.
 
 
