KOCHI: Clearing a major hurdle for starting the construction of Cochin   Research Centre (CCRC), the state environmental impact assessment authority (SEIAA) gave its nod for the project.   gave clearance for the construction of the super specialty block of  , Ernakulam as well. But, SEIAA gave approvals to both projects subject to certain conditions.

 One of the conditions set by SEIAA for CCRC is that it should conserve a waterbody, present in the 10 acres allotted to the centre, should be maintained in one acre. Capacity of rainwater harvesting facility at CCRC should be enhanced to 10,000 cubic metre from the proposed 7,500 cubic metre. Moreover, there should be a 10m wide road along CCRC’s borders and the main entrance should be linked to the road.
 
 “We will have to modify the detailed project report (DPR) accordingly and submit it to   (KIIFB). Once   gives its nod, we will float tenders for the construction of the buildings. It will take at least two months for us to prepare the tender. So, construction work can be started within two-three months,” said an official associated with the project.
 
 Sources said there would be difficulties in maintaining a waterbody in one acre. “SEIAA said there is a natural waterbody in the land allotted to CCRC. But, it is not a natural water body. Moreover, the extent of the waterbody doesn’t come to one acre. If we earmark one acre for maintaining the waterbody, we would lose the land which can be used for other purpose. Given the space crunch, it is a difficult task,” sources said.
 
  (Inkel), the nodal agency for CCRC and construction of super specialty block of the medical college, has taken steps to secure approvals from agencies like pollution control board. “The application for securing licence from fire and rescue department would be submitted in a day or two. So, we are hopeful that the project can be completed without delay,” said company officials.
 
 Officials of Government Medical College said the key change suggested by SEIAA is that the master plan for hospital development and super specialty block should be prepared with a focus on vertical construction.
 
 “Even the existing structures should be pulled down in a phased manner. This is to ensure more free space in the compound. More features for providing adequate parking and streamlining should be incorporated in the master plan. An 18m wide ring road through the periphery of the medical college is another key instruction. This is a suggestion which is difficult to implement,” the official said.
 
 As per plans, the KIIFB is expected to provide Rs 355 crore for CCRC project while it would be giving Rs 368 crore for the medical college. If SEIAA nod was not received, it would have been difficult for the projects to get funds from KIIFB this fiscal.
 
 The total built up area would be 4.8 lakh sq ft so that more facilities can be accommodated in the first phase of the project itself. Departments like paediatric oncology, community oncology, telemedicine and yoga and integrated medicine, cancer registry, MRD and date centre, bulk drug and general store, guest rooms and mortuary would enhance the capacity of CCRC.
 
 The number of beds in the wards would be 237 and there would be pharmacy and library too.
 
