MADURAI: The state’s transport secretary has been ordered by the Madurai bench of the Madras high court to conduct an inquiry into the illegalities committed in the process of selection conducted for appointment to the post of junior engineer (mechanical) in the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) Ltd, (  division) and initiate appropriate action against all the officials concerned, including the retired employees.

 The court also declared the appointment of four people – J Kannan, V Kirankumar, R Muruganantham and S Mathialagan, to the post of junior engineer (mechanical) to the  , (Trichy division), as null and void. It further directed the managing director to issue appropriate relieving orders to those people and relieve them from service forthwith.
 
 Justice S M Subramaniam of the Madurai bench of the Madras high court passed this order on a petition filed by M P  . The petitioner wanted to quash the appointment of eight people to the post of junior engineer and also wanted a direction to the managing director of TNSTC (Trichy division) to conduct an interview for candidates sponsored by the district employment office by giving equal opportunity besides to appoint him to the post.
 
 Of the eight people, three were dismissed from service while one left the job.
 
 The petitioner’s counsel said that that the TNSTC appointed people who were not residing within the jurisdiction of TNSTC (Trichy) and the appointments were made on certain corrupt activities on the part of TNSTC MD and district employment officer (Karur).
 
 After hearing concerned sides, the judge said that on perusal of interview committee report it appeared that there was no selection process and merit assessment in the appointment. Interestingly, the interview took place prior to the sending of list of candidates by the employment exchange in the districts of Trichy and Perambalur and those people were selected, the judge observed.
 
 The judge said, “Equal opportunities in public employment is a constitutional mandate. All the persons registered in the employment exchanges are to be provided with an opportunity to participate in the process of selection in accord with the seniority. Thus, the court is of an opinion that the selection was absolutely unfair, illegal, mockery and a fraud on constitution.”
 
 
