CHANDIGARH: District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum directed   Journeys to pay Rs 55,000 for not providing proper services to a Zirakpur-based resident.

 Anil Kumar Narayan, in his complaint, stated that after meeting Jukaso team on May 29, 2017, he bought a travel package from   for three years and paid Rs 40,000. He was informed that he just need to inform them 7 days in advance, either on phone or in office, and the booking would be confirmed.
 
 As per instructions, the complainant informed them to book a trip for Dharmshala from June 17 to 19. 2017 during the summer vacations. However, they failed to confirm the booking despite repeated persuasions. In fact, the complainant was told to plan in July or August.
 
 The complainant was also offered some other non-tourist locations in vacations. On being asked by the team Jukaso Journeys, the complainant told them to book Dharmshala, Shimla or Manali, before June 30,2017. The complainant was told that the booking would be confirmed by June 26, but they failed to do so.
 
 On the other hand, the complainant got a call from some customer service executive suggesting to go on holiday after July 5, which was not possible for him. As per the complainant, he had taken the travel package to enjoy his vacations, but, they failed to provide any service.
 
 Since no one appeared on behalf of the Jukaso Journeys, they were proceeded ex-parte.
 
 Forum held, “Despite charging the requisite fee, they did not respond to the complainant for giving the booking of the required place to him and his family, which defeated the very purpose of buying the travel package. Hence, the act of the company of not providing the proper services and most importantly non-appearing during the proceedings of the present case proves deficiency in service on their part, which certainly caused mental and physical harassment to the complainant.”
 
 They were, then, directed to “immediately” refund the amount of Rs 40,000, paid by Narayan towards the purchase of the package. They were also asked to pay Rs 8,000 to the complainant as compensation for mental agony and harassment caused to him along with Rs 7,000 as costs of litigation.
 
 
