PATIALA: The Punjab vigilance bureau has started a probe into four more alleged scams of   here after receiving the required documents from the university. The bureau will probe antique furniture scam, pay protection of employees on fake certificates, answersheet scam and filling of more posts than what had been advertised.

 The bureau is already investigating the multi-lakh fire extinguisher and smoke detector scam. These scams had rocked the Punjabi university last year after inquiries into 16 such complaints were marked during the tenure of officiating vice-chancellor  , who was given the charge last year after Prof   resigned from the post when the Congress came to power in Punjab. Prof Jaspal had served as the VC during the 10-year rule of the SAD-BJP in Punjab.
 
 Sources revealed that the vigilance started an inquiry into the alleged answersheet scam in which it was learned that the university had purchased paper worth Rs 200 crore over seven years. The examination branch allegedly bought cheap quality 24 lakh answersheets at double the rate from the open market. It was alleged that the university purchased at Rs 8 per sheet while it cost Rs 4.26. The commission or bribe of around Rs 10 crore annually had been going into the pocket of officials working in the university’s examination branch, said sources.
 
 Similarly, the vigilance has also begun a probe into the sale of rare furniture of the university being sold at Rs 3-15 per kg in scrap by ignoring rules and regulations. An old tractor was sold at much lower rate without recommendation or approval from any committee of the university, which is mandatory. No records of the items sold were maintained and the entire process was completed within two days, whereas the payment was received in cash instead of bank drafts or cheques. The sale tenders were floated in May 2014 for disposal of scrap material, including iron, wood, broken glass, aluminium, brass and copper items.
 
 The university got an inquiry conducted by Prof Kamal Kingra and Prof G S Batra, who had highlighted the violation of norms by the sale committee and the involvement of the then Punjab director of cultural affairs, archaeology, museums and archives, who had intervened, demanded and then purchased around 3,800kg furniture, including rare wooden chairs, tables, cupboards, consoles, screens and other material that was taken away in three trucks.
 
 Vigilance bureau Patiala SSP Jaspreet Singh confirmed the development. He said that, “The university had submitted the documents we had sought for the four scams only two days ago. We have initiated a probe into the matter.”
 
 Punjabi university VC Prof B S Ghuman said a fresh probe in all inquiries conducted by the university was now being conducted by the recently constituted two-member committee consisting of retired IPS officer   and IAS officer Jagjit Puri.
 
 
