KOCHI: The four burn victims of the Karukutty fireworks mishap at   Chapel in Karukutty, admitted to private hospitals in Ernakulam and Angamaly, are recuperating under medical treatment as on Monday.

 A 21-year-old youth,  , was killed after firecrackers stored in a shed near the church in Karukutty for festival celebrations caught fire leading to an explosion late on Sunday evening.
 
 The two minor victims, Joel N and  , aged 11 and 12 respectively, who had suffered around 50% burns and were referred to Ernakulam Medical Centre are reportedly out of danger.
 
 Two other victims admitted at Little Flower Hospital, Angamaly, Meljo Paulose (33) and   (30) who sustained minor burns, were moved to private rooms by Monday morning.
 
 “The explosion happened around 8.30 pm when a firecracker which was expected to burst in the air fell near the storehouse. The sparks generated might have caused the explosion. Simon was reportedly taking the crackers for the festive procession out from the storeroom but got trapped inside it after someone closed the door to stop the fire from spreading further. He was declared dead when brought to a near-by hospital,” police said.
 
 The Angamaly police filed cases for culpable homicide, including other charges under the relevant sections of the Explosive Act. “Prior permission was not taken from the authorities for procuring the firecrackers, nor was any precautionary measure taken for the safekeeping of the explosives which were carelessly kept in the sports club room,” a police officer said.
 
 The two children were apparently nearby the shed at the church in which the firecrackers were stored when the explosion happened. “The firecrackers were not large-scale ones, but small ones the kind which are normally used for household celebrations. However, as many of them caught fire together, severe burns were caused to the children,” said Sibi, a relative and bystander of Joel.
 
 Their conditions have improved considerably and doctors have said that they have overcome the critical stage, he said. “The kids have started taking food as well,” he added.
 
