Ludhiana: Several complaints of alleged attempts of booth capturing and bogus voting by the leaders and supporters of the ruling party were reported during MC elections on Saturday.

 The opposition parties claimed that Congress leaders and workers tried to capture the booths and were successful in getting bogus votes in the favour of their candidates.
 
 SAD district president (urban) Ranjit Dhillon alleged that at some of the polling booths in ward number 3, fake election agents of Congress tried to stop voters from entering the polling stations. Dhillon said similar incidents were reported in other wards in East constituency.
 
 SAD candidate from ward number 67 Opinder Kaur alleged that she herself caught one person doing bogus voting in the polling station and when she stopped him, he ran away. She said there was no use of organizing the elections if there is breakdown in the law and order situation.
 
 AAP leaders alleged that bogus voting was done in polling booths in ward number 44. The leader of opposition in Punjab assembly and AAP leader Sukhpal Khaira, in a statement, said, “AAP MLAs will stay put in Ludhiana as Congress is resorting to hooliganism and bogus voting. We will also ensure EVMs are safe. Congress is trying to hijack polls.”
 
 Leaders of Shiv Sena Hindustan also alleged that bogus voting was conducting in polling booths of ward number 15. Chander Kant Chadha of Shiv Sena Hindustan alleged that Congress leaders snatched mobile phones of polling agents of all other parties and carried out bogus voting in the booths and cops remained mute spectators.
 
 Akali candidate from ward number 36 Jagbir Sokhi also alleged that people carrying weapons were roaming freely on roads and bogus voting took place in booth numbers 1, 2, 4 and 6. He alleged that he also caught one such bogus voter who gave vote in place of daughter of one of his polling agent. He said he brought the matter in the knowledge of officers but it was of no use.
 
 AAP leaders alleged that in ward number 15, brother of Congress candidate Kanchan Malhotra Sabeer Kalra entered the booth number 1 and 2 and did bogus voting and when polling agents of AAP objected to the same, cops did not take any action. They also alleged that even the mobile phone of the polling agent was snatched when he tried to call the senior leaders of AAP. Similarly, bogus voting took place at a polling booth situated in Baba Isher Singh School in ward number 72. Leader of opposition of AAP Sukhpal Khaira also called up the police commissioner followed by which senior police officials reached the spot, but they did not take action against Congress leaders. 
 
 When contacted, deputy commissioner-cum-district electoral officer Pradeep Agrawal said they received some complaints regarding booth capturing, but all complaints were found to be fake when officials reached the spots to check the matter. 
 
 
