GURUGRAM: The 21-year-old man said he felt “powerful” after consuming cannabis. At a counselling session, he revealed that under the influence, he would get into quarrels with family and fights with outsiders. It took months of counselling for him to agree to begin de-addiction treatment last year, which is still on.

 This youth is not an isolated case. In fact, across the district, 27 addicts have already been treated till February 13 this year. The figure for the whole of 2017 is 456. 
 
 If Haryana is the new ‘udta’ (high flying) state, challenging neighbouring   in the   stakes (see TOI story: MLAs fear ‘chitta’ turning Haryana into Punjab, Mar 15), Gurugram is fast emerging as its most suffering district. 
 
 From 287 in 2010, the number of patients — drug abuse is categorised as mental illness — in the district shot up to 1,571 in 2011. It continued to be high — 1,022 in 2012, 984 in 2013, 1,317 in 2014, 1,000 in 2015 and 1,004 in 2016 — according to the response to an   query by activist Aseem Takyar. Most of the addicts are between the ages of 18 and 30 years. Though there appears to be a decline in the 2017 figures, officials said it may not necessarily mean a decline in users. Proximity to Delhi often diverts addicts from Gurugram to unregularised centres in Delhi — to avoid social stigma — which also raises chances of a relapse.
 
 Meanwhile, doctors at the frontline of treating this epidemic are dealing with their own challenges. Health officials said social stigma makes it difficult for the addict’s family to seek help. “When you buy drugs, everything is discreet. When you seek treatment, you’re visible. It’s rare for people to actually look at the problem as medical or psychological,” said Dr  , in-charge of the de-addiction centre at Civil Hospital.
 
 A senior state-level officer dealing in drug abuse cases told TOI that besides the number of new addicts, relapse rate is very high. An addict keeps returning to drugs even after 2-4 rehabs. A drug user is considered ‘clean’ only after five years without relapse.
 
 De-addiction centres in Haryana follow regulations of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. However, according to sources, with these regulations not mandatory in Delhi, over 500 unregulated de-addiction centres have sprung up in the national capital. “There’s no licensing required in Delhi, and Gurugram pays for the proximity,” said the officer. “A daily dose of the most common drugs will cost around Rs 500 to Rs 1,000, which most Gurugram residents can afford. But they then go to Delhi for rehabilitation as they offer discretion, but these centres are not genuine,” the official added.
 
 Enforcement authorities have cracked down on narcotics in Gurugram this year, with 18 FIRs registered till mid-March, and 22 people arrested under the NDPS Act. In the whole of last year, 113 FIRs were registered and 119 people arrested. In comparison, only 72 FIRs were registered in 2016 and 76 arrests made. The numbers were even lower in 2015, when only 34 cases were filed.
 
 Dr Aditya Kaushik, amicus curae and nodal officer appointed by the Punjab and Haryana high court for drug-related cases, said, “The government wants to decrease both demand and supply. The crackdown on the supply chain will decrease supply, and raise rates. Those who can’t afford it, will check into de-addiction centres. As more people get cured, demand will fall.”
 
 With inputs from Ajay Sura in Chandigarh
 
 
