Pele wished them luck moments after Tite announced to the world the names of 23 Brazilians who will be the most talked about, criticized and discussed threadbare on the road to Russia.

 
 
 
 The undisputed king of football also alluded to the triumphs and tribulations that the beautiful game has brought to their nation. “I hope your names will be forever marked in the history of football,” he wrote in his message to his young compatriots who are about to embark on a journey of redemption across the Atlantic.
 
 
 
 
 Apart from opponents on the field, the weight of history is what   teams have been destined to confront since 1950. Socrates felt it, and so did Zico. They succumbed. Romario and Bebeto survived. So did Ronaldo, Rivaldo and Ronaldinho – but just once.
 
 Since 2002, the lustre of the canary yellow shirt has dimmed over successive abortive attempts. On a grimy July afternoon four summers ago in Belo Horizonte, there was frustration over a campaign that seemed Sisyphean.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 No wonder Pele reminded   and five other survivors of that dreadful debacle of the unbearable force of history they will be up against.
 
 Carlos Alberto Perreira’s group in 2006 had all the garnishing of a champion team. Ronaldo, the phenomenon, was the irrepressible defender of Brazilian faith; with his heir apparent Ronaldinho, captain Cafu and Roberto Carlos, Brazil flaunted a you-name-it-we-have-it sort of a conglomeration. Yet the stars failed to shine.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Mercury rose again four years later with Ronaldinho and Kaka and Robinho, only to suffer a nuclear winter. If Zidane was the destroyer in Frankfurt, then it was Wesley Sneijder in Port Elizabeth.
 
 Recalled for an encore as the Cup returned to Brazil after 1950, Luiz Felipe Scolari braved all odds only to reveal an empty bank, barring one piece of crystal – Neymar. Colombian Camilo Zuniga’s knee incapacitated Neymar and in the semifinals, marauding Germany, the eventual champions, scarred the Selecao forever.
 
 History needs to be rewritten.
 
 Pele did it in 1970, after being hacked down by Portugal’s Morais four painful years before. Emerging from the same alma mater Santos, the Senor Do Nascimento can expect Neymar, 51 years his junior, to exorcise the ghosts of Zuniga and Mineirazo.
 
 Brazil’s medical team has assured that Neymar will return in the first of the two June friendlies before the summer campaign kicks off in Russia. Recovering from a broken metatarsal, Neymar has been named among the 23. Brazil’s best right back Dani Alves, a veteran of three World Cups, will be missing in action because of injury. Fagner, capped only four times, has got the call along with Manchester City’s Danilo to fill Alves’ boots.
 
 Throbbing with excitement after a hat-trick against Levante, Coutinho, priced at 142 million pounds, is one among the newbies in the platoon along with 21-year-old scoring sensation Gabriel Jesus. Both were instrumental in their respective club sides, Barcelona and Manchester City, finishing on top. Firmino and Douglas Costa complete the superbly-potent attacking arsenal with Neymar being the leader, the enforcer, the Brazilian balm to all woes.
 
 Tite’s midfield choices, Fernandinho, Paulinho, Renato Agusto, Casemiro and Willian exude confidence. With Miranda and Marquinhos at the heart of defence, Roma’s Alisson under the bar and the ubiquitous   on the left, they had sailed through the South American whirlpool long before Lionel Messi had to pull Argentina out of the woods in their last qualifier with a hattrick against Ecuador.
 
 The   in Russia would have been poorer otherwise.
 
 In between, Neymar had given Brazil what no other Brazilian could – the Olympic gold, out-pacing Germany. A long march to rewrite history starts with a single step, they say.
 
 Often parallels are drawn to grasp the twists of time’s passage. Pele redeemed himself and Brazil in 1970. Ronaldo, reaffirmed the belief in 2002, after the mysterious obfuscation of facts in Paris. Now for history to repeat itself, Brazil is looking at Neymar to be the astonishing example of rejuvenation.
 
 
 
 Undoubtedly the biggest superstar to don the Selecao colours in this World Cup, Neymar’s past year has been nothing short of a rollercoaster ride. From leaving Barcelona to ‘get out of Messi’s shadow’ to joining Paris St Germain for a world record fee, Neymar has dominated the headlines all season. But an injury he picked up late February cut short his dream of helping PSG win their first European trophy and put his journey to Russia in doubt. Luckily for Brazil, Neymar has now recovered and though he hasn’t had any match practice since the injury, an entire country will depend on him to play a stellar role.
 
 
 
 
 Marcelo will be the one the opposition will be wary of the most. The leftback is Real Madrid’s vicecaptain and has 449 appearances and 33 goals to his name in Madrid colours. This impressive haul makes him the club’s second-highest foreign appearance-maker, behind another Brazilian superstar Roberto Carlos.
 
 Though Real struggled at the start of the season but are on the threshold on another Champions League title. Marcelo will look to carry on that momentum to Russia.
 
 
 
 “Roberto delivers, delivers and delivers.” This was Jurgen Klopp’s assessment of the Brazilian centre forward, who has been credited with bringing the best out of PFA Player of the Year Mohamed Salah at Liverpool. Firmino is the pivot of Klopp’s attacking triumvirate that includes Salah and Sadio Mane. He is also the first line of defence. Firmino completed 60+ tackles in the just concluded PL season, which was more than a few of the league’s established centre backs.
 
 
 
 
 His last-gasp goal in Manchester City’s last Premier League match gave Pep Guardiola’s men 100 points and Gabriel Jesus will also look to provide the same contribution in the Brazilian attack alongside stalwarts like Neymar and Philippe Coutinho. He had a 14-game goal drought between November 2017 and March 2018 that also included a knee medial ligament injury. But he broke his duck with a beautiful goal and things only got better for the youngster from there.
 
 
 
 
 AS Roma’s Alisson has established himself as one of Europe’s premier goalkeepers this season and will definitely be Tite’s first choice for goalkeeper. Promoted after Wojciech Szczesny left at the start of the season, Alisson made 98 saves in all competitions this term — more than the likes of Szczesny, Jan Oblak and ter Stegen.
 
 
