CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh bench of   (CAT) stayed the termination orders issued by Chandigarh administration regarding JBT teachers on Friday. They all were terminated after the JBT paper-leak scam. The administration had passed termination orders without giving any notice to the JBT teachers after which 435 teachers had moved CAT. On Thursday, the tribunal had stayed the orders and also issued notice on petition filed by 344 JBT teachers. 

 It was argued that the petitioners were not regularised even after the completion of two-year period as provided in the appointment order. Also, the applicants were informed that probation period cannot be cleared due to the pendency of FIR in JBT paper-leak scam. It was argued that the termination order was passed against the applicants illegally, arbitrarily and without conducting an inquiry as per the due process of law and as a corollary, violating the fundamental right to a fair and impartial inquiry and the principles of natural justice.
 
 It was stated that after issuance of appointment orders, the applicants joined their respective stations /schools and commenced their service period and continued to perform their services with utmost sincerety and to the complete satisfaction of their superiors. Meanwhile, JBT   leak scam hit the headlines whereby it was alleged that there were many illegalities in the process of recruitment of employees of   and a special investigation team (SIT) was constituted to investigate into the matter. After the investigation conducted by the SIT, two FIRs were also registered dated 29.07.2016 and 11.10.2017.
 
 It was pointed out that during the course of investigation, various applicants were harassed to the extent that they were called to police stations a number of times. They had to take written examinations in the police station, yet nothing came out through the investigation. 
 
 Later, these teachers were not even regularised and suddenly, the administration issued orders stating their termination.
 
 
