Trichy: He has taken a path that is treaded hardly by anyone. He is not an undertaker or a corporation worker, but 63-year-old Chinnathambi alias P Ramasamy has single-handedly given decent funerals to more than 600 people, mostly destitute and homeless senior citizens who breathed their last on the streets of Woraiyur. For the past 32 years, Chinnathambi has been working closely with Woraiyur police personnel, spending thousands of rupees from his own pocket to give a farewell to the deceased destitute.

 Chinnathambi, a retired flooring worker hailing from Pandamangalam, says that he realised his obligation to conducting funerals for the homeless in the 1980s when he saw a 70-year-old woman dead near Woraiyur.
 
 "Just after the homeless woman was dead, I approached the Woraiyur police station. The police personnel gave me directions on the proper formalities to be done for laying her to rest. That night I was sleepless. Since then, I have conducted funerals from my own pocket for at least 600 people in Woraiyur," Chinnathambi told TOI. In the eighties, the expense of conducting a funeral was around Rs 50, which according to Chinnathambi, has escalated to Rs5,000 now. To address the financial need, Chinnathambi had been saving money through an exclusive hundial meant for this purpose.
 
 When he gets information that a person has been found dead on the road, Chinnathambi would buy a dhoti or a saree besides the required flowers and fruits and perform the final rites as a son following the Hindu tradition. "Once police and revenue officials gave the information that the dead was a destitute, post-mortem would be conducted at Trichy GH. I would wait till they hand me over the body which I bury with my own money," Chinnathambi said.
 
 The mortal remains of the unidentified people should be buried and not cremated as per the police formality. "Most of the people for whom I had given final rites were aged. A good son or a daughter should take care of his or her parents, but unfortunately many fail to do that," Chinnathambi lamented.
 
 The 63-year-old often earns the wrath of his family members, particularly his 30-year-old son Jagadeesan, for spending the family’s savings on conduct ing funerals for the homeless.
 
 "During my service at Woraiyur police station, I have seen Chinnathambi conducting at least 150 funerals for the homeless in the police station limits. He strictly turned down any external financial help," said a sub-inspector of police. Stating that conducting funerals for the homeless was a humanitarian act, Chinnathambi said he would continue the service as long as he was alive.
 
 
