

 
 
 A: Investment is not decreasing, but the cost of creation is increasing and therefore a lot more investment is required. At the end of the day, we must look at new models of healthcare delivery that can lower cost and match technology to the delivery side and basically create a synergy between the two so that the overall cost can be effectively reduced.
 
 
 
 
 A. Every hospital is consuming more in terms of infrastructure. The cost of real estate, engineering, all input cost that goes into the creation of an entity has gone up and the cost of medical equipment has increased as you require more equipment. Therefore, our overall cost burden is increasing disproportionately to what you can pass on to patient care.
 
 That is reason now that one is seeing unbundling of multispecialty hospitals into single-speciality hospitals. This is because they are small and more focussed on one or two fields and that is one area that has developed over a couple of years. You are seeing a lot of single-speciality hospital especially in mother and childcare, orthopaedic and cancer care space. They are more contained and the amount of overall capital requirement has reduced. One must keep looking at new models of healthcare delivery.
 
 
 
 
 A. Home healthcare segment is coming up to reduce healthcare cost by reaching patients at home, particularly those with chronic diseases. They need to be treated at home at a lower cost. We must rethink what are the areas where we can really reduce cost of care by not compromising on quality. In healthcare, quality is important. It is a creation of accessibility and quality, not cost and quality.
 
 
 
 
 A. From patient perspective, they need know that when they go to a hospital with tertiary-care environment, the cost will go up as these hospitals have intense need for manpower, infrastructure and everything else that goes with it. That equation is important. One must have traditional delivery of healthcare along with new innovations.
 
