HOWRAH: The officer-in-charge of a police station in  , who had gone to a village to implement a court order on Saturday, was chased down a road for more than half-a-kilometre by a hundred-strong mob and then brutally beaten up with rods and bamboo staff. The Shyampur police station head, who was left for dead, was later admitted to a Kolkata hospital with severe head injuries.

 A sub-inspector, who tried to shield his boss, was also critically injured. Eight other cops were injured in the incident, a chilling throwback to the March 1984 incident in the Port area of Calcutta where deputy commissioner Vinod Mehta was hacked to death by a mob.
 
 Cops rushed reinforcements to Barberia Munshiber, arrested seven persons, including main accused Matiar Munshi, an advocate of an Uluberia court, and charged them with rioting, attempt to murder and offences under the Arms Act. An Uluberia court remanded them in police custody for five days. Shyampur, situated around 70km from Kolkata, is in Uluberia Lok Sabha constituency that goes to poll a fortnight later.
 
 OC Suman Das, 44, led around a posse of seven-eight policemen to Barberia Munshiber, where there was a dispute over a six-bigha plot comprising mostly paddy fields and ponds. The area has witnessed frequent clashes between two groups over the last few years.
 
 An Uluberia court had issued an order to maintain status quo over the property and directed police to maintain law and order in the area. Das and his team had quelled a clash between the warring groups last May and an une-asy calm prevailed since then till violence erupted again on Thursday. 
 
 Matiar Munshi’s nephew, Hanif Munshi, lodged an FIR against his uncle and another person on Friday, accusing them of disturbing peace in the area.
 
 Das led the police team to the troubled zone around 9 pm on Friday but met with resistance from both sides. Bombs were hurled and bike-borne miscreants chased out the outnumbered cops, forcing them to withdraw to a police camp on the banks of a pond just outside the village. They then went back to the police station to get more forces.
 
 The OC again visited the spot after midnight on Saturday, leading a force of 28 policemen. He divided them into two units, himself leading half of them from one end and asking the others to approach the village from another side. But, this time too, the police team was outnumbered by miscreants armed with rods, daggers, chains, bombs and bamboo staff.
 
 Civic volunteer Prasenjit Majhi, who was in team of 14 that was being directly led by Das, said: “We got off the police vehicle to enter the area on foot as we neared the village. But miscreants on bikes appeared out of nowhere and began hurling bombs. We were forced to flee and got scattered. Sub-inspector Tarun Pramanik and I were with the OC. The miscreants caught up with the OC near a pond and attacked him with rods and daggers. SI Pramanik tried to save him but he too was attacked,” Majhi, who too sustained injuries, recounted.
 
 The profusely bleeding OC and SI both lost consciousness, Majhi said. “The miscreants thought they had killed the OC and fled. That was when I gathered the courage to call the police station and reinforcements were sent,” he added.
 
 The OC, SI and eight others were taken to Shyampur Rural Hospital which referred them to the Uluberia State  . Eight policemen were admitted to this hospital and the OC was taken to a private hospital in Kolkata; Pramanik was sent to a nursing home in Uluberia.
 
 The OC’s attending doctor   told TOI: “The patient has sustained brain haemorrhage. He is on life support. His pulse rate is very low. He is under close observation.” Hospital officials said a nine-member medical board was formed to treat Das.
 
 Locals alleged that both groups fighting over the property were   supporters though the uncle recently shifted allegiance to the BJP. Trinamool Rural Howrah president Pulak Ray said the party had expelled both uncle and nephew “a long time ago”.
 
 
