NEW DELHI: The Centre on Friday said it strictly went by the memorandum of procedure (MoP) for appointment of judges finalised by the   and the 1998 apex court judgment to seek reconsideration of the proposal to appoint Uttarakhand Chief Justice K M Joseph as an SC judge.

 
 The Centre's stand that Justice Joseph was 42nd in the all-India seniority list of High Court (HC) judges and that Kerala HC was already represented in the SC did not cut ice with the opposition and retired CJIs, who termed the decision an "assault on judiciary" even as a group of lawyers led by Indira Jaising filed a petition on Friday challenging the government seeking reconsideration of Justice Joseph's candidature.
 
  sources said the government had followed the rules of the game set by the MoP finalised by the collegium in March 13, 2017, and the two SC judgments in 1993 and 1998, which created the collegium system and leaned towards primacy of all-India 'seniority' of judges.
 
 The MoP finalised by the collegium last year said in paragraph 5, "In case of elevation of a chief justice of an HC or a judge of the HC as a judge of the  , a fair representation shall be given to all HCs. The criterion of 'seniority' as an HC judge, subject to merit and integrity, will be followed." 
 
 This finalised draft MoP, sent to the government by the collegium, was signed by then-CJI J S Khehar and Justices Dipak Misra, J Chelameswar, Ranjan Gogoi and Madan B Lokur. Justice Khehar has since retired, Justice Misra is the CJI and Justice Kurian Joseph has entered the collegium. 
 
 Ministry sources said the government followed both guidelines — fair representation to HCs in the SC and primacy of seniority — in letter and spirit while returning the name of Justice K M Joseph for reconsideration. However, if the collegium reiterates Justice Joseph's name, it will be difficult for the government not to appoint him as an SC judge.
 
 In the 1993 judgment, the SC had said "seniority amongst judges in their high court and their combined seniority on all-India basis" should be "kept in view and given due weight while making appointments from amongst high court judges to the Supreme Court."
 
 "Unless there be any strong cogent reason to justify a departure, that order of seniority must be maintained between them while making their appointment to the Supreme Court," it had said.
 
 The 1998 judgment by a nine-judge bench had said, "Strong cogent reasons do not have to be recorded as justification for a departure from the order of seniority, in respect of each senior judge who has been passed over. What has to be recorded is the positive reason for the recommendation.
 
 "The CJI is not entitled to act solely in his individual capacity, without consultation with other judges of the SC."
 
 The return of the proposal to appoint Justice Joseph as an SC judge will be considered shortly by the collegium. 
 
