With the state government sealing the Sterlite plant in Tuticorin last week, the future of the nearly 3,000 direct and contract employees of Sterlite and the nearly 20,000 members of their families who are indirectly having a livelihood depending on the copper plant is at stake. Adding to the woes is the mental agony of being bracketed with ‘anti-social elements’ by the local people.

 "For the last three weeks people in my neighbourhood have been looking at me mockingly telling each other that I am a Sterlite employee. Some have asked me fiercely why I work for that company. Now they happily say that the plant has been closed down and our families will suffer," Saraswathy, an accounts department staff with Sterlite, said.
 
 She said her husband is running a small business and that her earning is the backbone of her family’s survival. "My son is an engineering student. Now that the plant has been closed down, we will have no other go," she said, hoping that the government would reopen the plant.
 
 Sealing the plant has come as a shock for the 900-odd permanent employees of the plant. A senior employee in the mechanical department for 23 years said there are at least 100 permanent employees who have been working there for more than 20 years. "We don’t have cancer. Rumours about the plant were spread on social media and the government has acted due to pressure without conducting a scientific study," he added.
 
 "Relatives are asking us what would happen to our jobs," said   who was in the Sterlite quarters when it was ransacked by a mob on May 22. Recalling the dreadful incident, he said the families were trembling with fear when the mob attacked their vehicles and set them ablaze. "Women and children were in tears and ran to the terrace as a cloud of smoke from our burning vehicles engulfed our houses," he said. He said the protesters were threatening to kill them if they came down. "What wrong did we do to attract such a fury? We are praying that the   government will reopen the factory. We are hopeful that the company will not abandon us and are awaiting a message from our bosses," he added.
 
 The condition of the nearly 2,500 contract labourers is worse as they are clueless on what to do and how to pay the school fees of their children. Most of them are living in villages close to the factory. Thoothukudi Sterlite All Contractors Welfare Association president S   told TOI that there are around 40 contractors attached to the association having 1,500 to 2,000 contract labourers depending on them. "Our employees work on contracts ranging from one year to three years depending on the nature of the work. Half of these labourers are from areas around the factory, including a few places from where people are protesting against the plant. Areas from where they came to work include Therespuram, Silverpuram, Pandarampatti, Kumarattiyapuram, Ottapidaram, Sawyerpuram and  ," he said.
 
 Sources said that around 500 employees are from northern states. It is learnt that many of them have gone back as there is uncertainty over the plant starting operations. Thiagarajan said the employees are asking for loans to pay the education fees of their children and urgent medical expenses.
 
 "Payment to the tune of more than Rs 20 crore from Sterlite is pending for the contractors. Many trucks and heavy machines we have hired are also on the sealed premises of the plant. We pray that the dues are settled and vehicles released at the earliest. In the long run, we want the plant to commence operations," he adds.
 
 
