For hundreds of years, Gujarat’s 1,617km coastline — the longest in the country —has been its lifeline, attracting wealth and ideas from faraway lands. But today, this shore of prosperity is being chewed away across large swaths by the  , making communities and ecology more vulnerable.

 A detailed inventory of Gujarat’s shoreline was carried out by scientists   from   (NCSCM), Chennai; and Dr AS Rajawat and Dr   from Space Applications Centre (SAC) of   (Isro). The inventory shows that 35.98% of the   coast is eroding, and 1035.23 sq km area has been lost already.
  
 One may attribute the erosion to factors such as climate change, rising sea levels and temperatures. But human activities, without a proper understanding of coastal dynamics, is playing a significant role in changing natural phenomena. That has accentuated this irreversible damage, especially to local communities and fragile marine environments like mangroves and coral reefs.
 
 
  
 
 High erosion is now being observed along the South Gujarat coast — the 144 km coastal stretch from Surat district to Umargam in Valsad district, northeast of Kori creeks and near Godia creeks. Today, the Gujarat coast is home to 549 villages with a population of more than 30 million. It is dotted with a number of minor and major ports and industrial establishments. “Even if only a small stretch of the coastline is impacted due to predicted sea-level rise, it can have a significant effect on the region,” says the study.
 
 The study assigned a Coastal Vulnerability Index (CVI) — a first in environmental assessment — after carefully studying 1,248 segments of the Gujarat coast. The information was collected with satellite remote sensing and GIS tools. CVI values ranged from 31 to 74, indicating that 785 km (45.67%) of the Gujarat coast was under high to very high risk category while 934 km (54.33%) was under moderate to low risk from the threat of predicted sea-level rise.
 
 The CVIs were arrived at using seven risk factors such as shoreline change rate, sea-level change rate, coastal slope, mean significant wave height, mean tidal range, coastal regional elevation and coastal geomorphology (physical features).
 
