PATNA: Bharipa Bahujan Mahasangh (BBM) leader Prakash Yashwant Ambedkar said on Friday the anti-RSS and anti-BJP alliance formation would begin after the Karnataka state assembly election results in April. He said a big rally of the dalit groups would be held at Gandhi Maidan in Patna on June 24.

 “The Left parties have clarified their position. We will align with any political party opposed to the RSS and   ideologies,” Prakash said. He said during the 1946-1950 period, RSS stalwarts and their affiliated organizations were openly opposed to the Constitution and even now one Union minister Anant Kumar Hegde, along with others, openly stated that they wanted change in the Constitution. 
 
 “But the people of the country will not yield to their design and, in fact, will strongly oppose them. The dalit and weaker sections support the Constitution because it gives them dignity of existence,” Prakash said, adding the country is headed for economic uncertainty and social unrest “while the uncontrolled Hindu outfits have continued to terrorize people”. 
 
 Describing himself as a catalyst in the formation of the anti-RSS and anti-BJP alliance nationally, Prakash said the Karnataka results would show how much weight the Congress carries in popular esteem against the BJP.
 
 Prakash has reservations about the “temple hopping” by Congress president Rahul Gandhi. He felt the Congress would be a reliable partner against the RSS and BJP even as the party “does not have strong presence” in all the states. “The unchanging and stable aspect of the Congress is that it, unlike the RSS, is not opposed to the Constitution,” Prakash said. 
 
 Prakash, the grandson of B R Ambedkar, is on four-day visit to Bihar. To start with, he has aligned with former Bihar assembly Speaker Uday Narayan Choudhary, who has fallen out with the state CM and JD(U) national president Nitish Kumar and mobilizing dalits independent of the party. Choudhary is still in the JD(U) and the party has not taken any disciplinary action against him, saying it does “not want to waste paper on him”.
 
 
