
 
  
 
 The total length of the coastal road, proposed by the civic body in 2011, will be 29.2km, starting from the Princess Street flyover at Marine Lines and ending at  . The   has divided the first phase—the 10km south Mumbai stretch estimated to cost Rs 6,894 crore—into three parts. Separate bids were invited for each. A joint venture of Hindustan Construction Company (HCC) and Hyundai Development Corporation won the bid for the first part— Haji Ali to Worliend of BWSL, the shortest of the three divisions within the 10km stretch.
 
 The BMC’s estimated construction cost for this part was Rs 1,661 crore, but the selected contractor quoted around 30% more than the estimate, which works out to Rs 2,206 crore. The BMC is expected to open the bids for the remaining two parts in a few days.
 
 The BMC expects the selected contractors to mobilize resources in a couple of months and start construction work soon after the end of the monsoon. As per the contract conditions, the work needs to be completed within four years. The 10km stretch will have three interchanges: near  , at Haji Ali and at the Worliend of the sea link. The total length of the primarily ringshaped interchanges, along with their ramps, too will be 10km. Thus, including the length of the interchanges, the Marine Lines-Worli stretch of the coastal road works out to 20km.
 
 BMC commissioner   said the administration will now put its selection of contractor before the standing committee, which comprises corporators, for approval. “We will open the bids for the other two parts with a few days.”
 
 The state government has decided to construct the middle section of the coastal road as a sea link connecting BWSL to Versova. Earlier this month, a consortium of Reliance Infrastructure and Italy’s Astaldi were given the contract to build the 10-km Bandra-Versova sea link, with a deadline of five years. The consortium’s Rs 6,994-crore bid, though lowest among five bidders in the fray, was Rs 1,477 crore higher than the government’s Rs 5,516 crore estimate made in November 2016.
 
