CHANDIGARH: If there’s one community particularly enthused about Canadian prime minister Justin Trudeau’s visit to Punjab, it is the travel agents in the state. They are hopeful that, among other things, the visit would help fulfil their demand for direct flights to Toronto from Amritsar and Chandigarh.

 Amid the reports of Trudeau not getting the expected welcome elsewhere, Moga-based travel agent  , who is president of Malwa Travel Agents’ Association, has placed advertisements in local newspapers, welcoming the Canadian PM. “The hype around Trudeau’s visit to India was missing even as the country has done much for the Punjabi community. I myself spend six months in Canada every year and it is like a second home for hundreds of families,” he said.
 
  
  
 
 Kuljit Singh Hayer, president of Punjab Travel Agents’ Association, said travel agents were enthused about Trudeau’s visit. “Although there are no major immigration issues with the country, a direct Toronto-Amritsar flight is the need of the hour. The Trudeau government has done a lot for the immigrants. It is temporary resident (visitor) visas that are issued the most for Canada, which continues to be a hot destination for Punjabis not just from the Doaba region but across the state,” he added.
 
 Smooth migration to Canada is a promise that several travel agents make. “We deal in immigration of school students up to Class XII, besides cases of first refusal of visa. Many software engineers and even senior citizens want to migrate to Canada. We get applications from even small towns and villages. Canada is one of the most tolerant and secular countries in the world that provides freedom to people from all communities and cultures to practise their religion,” said Karamjit Singh, who runs an immigration consultancy firm in Ferozepur.
 
 “About 10 years ago, over 50,000 Punjabis used to migrate to Canada every year. But with changes in visa norms, the figure has come down. But Punjab and Gujarat still have scores of families wanting to shift there,” added Soni.
 
 
