 
    has taken to coaching like a fish takes to water.
  
  The former India cricketer who scored a century on his Test debut against South Africa in Durban during the 1992 tour is making progress on the   coaching front, and with a stint now as assistant coach at Indian Premier League (IPL) side Delhi Daredevils, there is more to come.
  
  “The coaching staff suggested to the owners to take part in the  . We have been in IPL for a decade now, but this is the first time we are featuring in any corporate league. We all know that IPL is a long tournament and we want to be ready with our backup players in case anyone gets injured,” the 49-year-old Mumbai resident told reporters during an interaction at a city hotel on Wednesday.
  
  Amre, who is in Goa at the moment with the GMR Group cricket team, was invited by cricket promoter Dinesh Trikannad to have a word with budding players, many of whom grew up watching his old footage on television.
  
  After playing for India in 11 Test and 37 ODIs, Amre found his calling in coaching. He discovered India’s top-order batsman   and has been coach of India’s vice-captain for Tests  . 
  
  In Goa, Amre will watch his side play with keen interest and hope he can have some readymade names should the Delhi Daredevils sound him out for replacements.
  
  “We have few good players like Naman Ojha, Gurkeerat Singh, Abhishek Sharma Manjot Kalra. My role is to get them ready for the IPL. Goa is the best place for preparation,” said Amre.
  
  Amre, who retired from professional cricket in 2001, must have watched the game evolve, particularly the fitness aspect. Gone are the days when Sri Lanka captain Arjuna Ranatunga could simply walk and make some runs. Now, it’s the battle of the fittest.
  
  “Virat Kohli is a prime example. He changed the definition of fitness. The game has seen a sea-change in the last decade. Players travel so much nowadays, there are back to back series and to keep up with those demands, a player must be supremely fit. There are different formats, and to adapt, one must be fit physically and mentally. That’s why they say a fit body will have a fit mind,” he explained to the budding cricketers.
  
  Amre had a stint in Goa during the fag end of his career and should know what ails Goan cricket. Infrastructure is not an excuse for the absence of a player who can represent the country from here.
  
  “Only infrastructure doesn’t give you great players. Participation in various tournaments and planning for future are few things. Goan players should play in Mumbai or Chennai leagues. Exposure in big leagues will churn out players. That will be the key for Goa. There should be exchange programmes where Goan players take part in Mumbai and Mumbai cricketers come here. That should help Goa,” said Amre.
  
  India Under-19 World Cup winning captain Prithvi Shaw will play his first IPL with Daredevils this season. Another U-19 World Cup winning captain Unmukt Chand, too, had made his debut for Daredevils but didn’t fare too well.
  
  “I can speak about how Shreyas was handled and trained. We are very professional and GMR has a vision to promote young talent. It is my job to look after them. Prithvi is an exceptional player. His graph is good. I see a bright future for him,” said Amre.
