KOLKATA: The process of filing   for Bengal’s rural polls, marred by widespread violence and at least one death, ended in total fiasco after the State Election Commission scrapped its one-day extra window for filing papers because of “legal infirmities” pointed out in its original extension order.

 The volte-face prompted BJP to move the Calcutta High Court, which stayed the SEC decision but also left it to the poll panel to decide how it would address candidates’ grievances over not being able to file their nominations.
 
 
  
 The SEC did not accept nominations after the HC order on Tuesday, which anyway came after 3pm (the original deadline for the extended-and-then-scrapped paper-filing window), as it was slated to take up the next stage of the process — the scrutiny of nomination papers — on Wednesday. The HC will hear the BJP petition again on Wednesday, when the   too is slated to take up a similar petition.
 
 The 24-hour cycle of confusion and indecision started late on Monday, when the SEC announced that it was extending the deadline for filing nominations by a day to Tuesday. The next act of the drama came 12 hours later, on Tuesday morning, when the SEC scrapped this extension. The next chapter occurred in the Calcutta HC a few hours later, when BJP moved court against the last SEC order and Justice   stayed the SEC decision though it was left to the SEC to take a call on how to redress candidates’ grievances.
 
 Even political parties struggled to keep pace with these developments as Trinamool Congress and the opposition camps swerved between jubilation and despair at the string of “victories” and “reversals” in the SEC office and the court premises. 
 
 Hundreds of opposition supporters, from both the CPM and the BJP, gathered in front of Rawdon Square SEC headquarters, which had turned into a fortress by then. Some CPM supporters tried to break through the police barricade, demanding the SEC accept their nomination forms, and cops had a tough time managing them.
 
 Senior lawyer and Trinamool MP Kalyan Banerjee called the HC’s stay order “infructuous” but others in the legal fraternity interpreted it as a “stricture” on the SEC’s flip-flop rather than the bearing it would have on the extension of nomination deadline.
 
 The BJP will move the SC on Wednesday, alleging that the SEC has not addressed the grievances of candidates unable to file their nominations because of hurdles put up by the Trinamool. The SC on Monday directed the state election commissioner to “ensure disposal of any such grievance... strictly in accordance with law”. The SEC, after that apex court order, issued a notification on Monday night giving candidates a chance to file nominations on Tuesday, between 11 a.m. and 3 p.m., before scrapping its own order.
 
 The opposition was initially caught off-balance as state election commissioner Amarendra Singh reached office at 9.30 a.m. and withdrew Monday’s notification. Singh noted in his order that the withdrawal of the notification was in response to a letter from a special secretary of the state government and a written representation from Trinamool MP Banerjee pointing to “legal infirmities” in Monday’s notification.
 
 Opposition leaders wondered why Singh had to take back the notification after he issued it following lengthy discussions with other SEC officials on the implications of the SC order. BJP state president Dilip Ghosh and CPM leader   alleged the SEC was “compelled” to take back the original extension notification under pressure from the Trinamool.
 
 “People in   are witness to the pulls and pressures that Singh’s predecessor experienced during the municipal polls. He was manhandled by Trinamool leaders, following which he tendered his resignation. Singh is no exception,” Ghosh said.
 
 CPM leader Chakrabarty said the SEC had succumbed to Trinamool pressure. “I have information that four Trinamool heavyweights visited the state election commissioner’s residence on Tuesday morning. It was after their visit that the commissioner came to his office and withdrew the extension notification. It shows that the ruling Trinamool won’t allow the SEC to act independently,” Chakrabarty said.
 
 
