CHANDIGARH: Stagnant water that accumulated because of a   is turning people away from a   in Sector 45 here. Until they find an outlet for it, the locals will remain confined to a corner of the swamped park.

 Jarnail Singh, who lives nearby, said: “The stagnant water is robbing us of the sunbathing opportunity during winter. Unchecked, the spillage has spread over a big portion of the park where no maintenance work has happened in a long time. The water pipes of the park are leaking for the past two days. A huge amount of water is going waste.”
 
 Vikram, another man from the sector, said: “The water pipe that burst was attached to a tap that got broken while children were playing around the site. Since the water is being lost rapidly, the municipal corporation should plug the leak as quickly as possible.” House owners from nearby claimed the water leakage was restraining their children from playing inside the park. Senior citizens have to miss their daily walks.
 
 Retired bank official   said: “The fault is so minor that it can be repaired within minutes. The department concerned needs to respond quickly so that the public is able to use the park again.” Another house owner from the neighbourhood expressed his concern that gallons of water had been lost since the leakage had started.   added: “The wastage is painful to observe.” The children from the area are forced to play in another park far from their houses. Since the children are not before the parents’ eyes, their families remain worried for their security until they come back from play.
 
 Already Sector 45 has many problems. Rodents are tunnelling beneath its shops, removing the soil that gives a stable foundation to the structures. The Sector 45-C market has around 2,000 shops and the damage varies from shop to shop. Showroom floors have started sinking at several spots, and the owners have to fill the gaps daily. Since many traders have constructed residential floors above their shops, they fear major damage to the structures.
 
 
