GURUGRAM: The ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEF&CC) has sought a reply from the principal secretary of the department of forest and environment in Haryana on the   waste-to-energy plant. 

 
 The   order comes two months after green activists lodged a complaint with the ministry alleging that HSPCB, in its waste-to-energy plant recommendations, had violated the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. 
 
 In its May 20 letter (a copy is with TOI), the Union ministry asked the state forest and environment department to examine the issues raised by residents during the public hearing conducted by HSPCB before the filing of the  .
 
 “As waste-to-energy plant is in complete violation of the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, all present at the public meeting emphasised the need for decentralised segregation of garbage at multiple collection centres in the city. They had also suggested that mixed garbage should not be sent to Bandhwari. The pollution body did not consider these suggestions in their EIA report,” claimed Vaishali Rana Chandra, green activist and complainant in the matter.
 
 On March 21, HSPCB had organised a meeting with the residents of Bandhwari to seek their suggestions over the construction of the waste-to-energy plant in the area. The motive of this public hearing was to include the concerns and suggestions in a report which the pollution body had to submit to the environmental impact assessment (EIA) committee set up by the Union ministry. The report was submitted on March 28.
 
 “According to an RTI response given by MoEF, the authorities don’t have the required clearance from the Union ministry for diversion of the Aravali forest land for any non-forest activity. How can authorities build a waste-to-energy plant at a forest land without acquiring permission? However, the EIA report doesn’t mention any of these details. The report seems to be propaganda of what MCG and a company hired by the civic body will do at the site,” said Vivek Kamboj, an environmentalist.
 
 Residents said most   were not informed about the public hearing, and of the ones who were present, their suggestions were not taken into consideration. 
 
 The foundation stone for plant was laid by chief minister   on April 13, 2018, even before the EIA gave its approval.
 
 
