CHENNAI: When the city’s northernmost suburb is connected to the IT hub in the south in phase-2 of  , commuters will have eight interchange stations where they can shift between corridors to reach their destinations, including Central and Egmore railway stations and the airport. The eight stations will help commuters traverse more than 91km across two corridors in the phase-2.

 CMRL officials said Madhavaram, Sholinganallur, Kilpauk, Thousand Lights, Mylapore, CMBT, Alandur and   will be interchange stations where the two lines of phase 2 intersects. Commuters will be able to shift between the two corridors in phase 2 and the two corridors of phase-1 in these stations.
 
 Commuters heading from Madhavaram could alight at CMBT to go to the bus terminus or shift from phase-2 corridor to phase-1 corridor to take a train to Egmore or Central   or board a direct service to the airport. Commuters heading from   in the south could alight at Alandur and shift to the corridor of phase-1 to head to airport or to Koyambedu CMBT or Central.
 
 Phase-2 will have three corridors but only two of them - Madhavaram to Siruseri Sipcot (46.1km) and Madhavaram-Sholinganallur (45.2km) will be taken up first. Corridor 4 will be taken up only after final decision is taken on extending it. The three corridors will connect at four stations- Madhavaram in the north, Sholinganallur in south, CMBT in the east and   (Mylapore) in the west. 
 
 Corridor-4, between CMBT and Light House covering 17.1km, will however will be extended up to Poonamallee and CMRL is in the process of getting a detailed project report ready. Metro rail officials said there are already stations in five localities Kilpauk, Thousand Lights, CMBT, Alandur and St Thomas Mount. But in phase-2, another station will be built in these localities close to the existing metro station and will be linked for easy movement of commuters between corridors of phase-1 and 2. “If a station is elevated in phase-1 and is planned as an underground in phase-2, the latter will be built close to the existing station and will be connected. Unlike stations belonging to Indian Railways, which can be extended as when the need arises, metro stations are not designed that way,” said a metro rail official.
 
 In phase-1, Alandur serves as an elevated interchange station and Central, as an underground transit hub connecting two corridors.
 
 
