Nagpur: In an interesting session conducted by HRD Forum of Vidarbha Industries Association, lessons from history were picked up by Sumant Tekade, management trainer and used in present context to enhance the skills of individuals. The event was held at   Hall, Udyog Bhavan, on Tuesday. 

 Speaking on ‘Chhatrapati   and his management skills”, Tekade gave examples from the Maratha emperor’s life, describing his courageous attitude in unfavourable circumstances, long-term vision and go-getter attitude. He believed that if professionals and students instilled the qualities of Shivaji, then they would reach the pinnacle of success. 
 
 “The SWOT method will help you identify what you lack and groom your personality effectively. It stands for strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats,” he said. 
 
 He said, “Admitting and accepting the flaws gracefully is a major step, only then can one plan out every step and improvise to become better versions of themselves. Threat on the other hand is only in your mind and must leave your comfort zone, explore and excel.” 
 
 Tekade spoke about Shivaji’s bravery and how he turned his weaknesses into strength by smart planning and making judicious use of limited resources to get the job done. Shivaji never stepped back even in pressure situations and channelized all his energy to achieve his goal. 
 
 It was a doze of motivation for those present as Tekade, with his engaging tactics and impressive diction, caught the attention of those present. 
 
 Alertness is another key factor that Tekade emphasized on. He said, “Shivaji used to learn from his very first mistake and ensured he never repeated it. But people are not alert about the shortcomings and end up making blunders. Sometimes, even successful people pay a heavy price due to wrong decisions.” 
 
 Tekade also linked the competitiveness of Shivaji with leading brands of today and said, “You must know about your rival organizations and plan our counter-strategies based on the information thus gathered.” 
 
 
