CHANDIGARH: Having appeared for a fitness test for jobs in   in June last year, 20 men met UT SP (headquarters) Eish   on Monday to know the reason behind the delay in the announcement of the date of the  .

 The men, hailing from Haryana, Punjab and  , reached Chandigarh Police headquarters to first meet DGP T S Luthra. However, as he was not available, candidates later in the evening met SP Singhal. The men had appeared for 520 vacant posts of constable in the force. They said Singhal gave an assurance of conducting the test by end of March.
 
 More than 36,000 candidates had cleared in the physical test, but have been waiting for the announcemnt of the date of the written test since then. Candidates said they had crossed the age limit to become a cop and now they could not apply in other states.
 
 Aman, who came from  , said they waited for more than an hour to meet the DGP, but his personal assistant told them that he would not meet them.   said he had crossed the age of 25 and if he would not be selected in UT police, then his dream of becoming a cop would shatter. “Now, I cannot apply for the post in any other state,” he said.
 
 Bhiwani resident Parvesh Kumar said he spent around Rs 40,000 for preparing for the written test. “If the test’s date is not announced another two months, I will have to start preparing again,” he said.
 
 Singhal said the process for conducting the online examination had been started already. “It will take two-three months. Most probably, the test will be conducted by end of March,” he said.
 
 One of the candidates had submitted a complaint on the Prime Minister’s public grievance redress al portal in which she stated that the physical endurance and measurement test was initiated in April, after giving several requests and the issue was highlighted by newspapers. After the tests were concluded in June, Chandigarh Police assured the candidates they would conduct the written test in October 2017.
 
 The police had advertised the posts in 2015 and department received more than two lakh applications till the last date of receiving applications, December 31, 2015. After more than one year, physical and measurement test for applicants were started in April 2017. This will be the first time Chandigarh Police will conduct an online written test.
 
 
