MUBAI: Indians sent record remittances overseas in January, more than doubling from a year earlier, as more people funded children’s education in foreign universities, spent on tourism and sent money and gifts to their relatives abroad, data from the central bank showed.
 
    by individual residents touched a new high of $1.2 billion in January, according to   data. Cumulative outflows in the first 10 months of this financial year were $8.17 billion, compared with $4.6 billion in the same period a year ago.
  
  Resident Indians can send up to $250,000 per year to their relatives abroad for certain expenses, including select investments. Some are helping to create long-term income avenues for their overseas beneficiaries. Four categories –– gifts, maintenance of relatives abroad, travel and study –– accounted for more than 90% of the total flows.
  
  “It is clear Indians are travelling abroad more and also high net worth in- dividuals are encouraging their offspring to study abroad and sponsor their education,” said Moin Ladha, a partner at law firm Khaitan & Co.
  
  
 
  
  The RBI allowed Indians to send money abroad under various accounts after the country’s   crossed $100 billion in 2003.
  
  The outflows were initially capped at $50,000 a year and progressively increased to $250,000 a year per person. For many years, outflows barely touched $1 billion a year. After 2015, when the Reserve Bank broadened the scope of the scheme to include more transactions, the outflows started gathering pace. Significantly, a third of the outflows in January were for maintenance of relatives and gifts.
  
  “Many individuals are considering options for creating structures like trusts to create long-term avenues of income for their families abroad,” said Ladha.
  
  Such huge outflows could be a cause of concern if they accelerate in the months ahead, given that the withdrawal of capital by foreign portfolio investors is putting pressure on the local currency.
  
  “The overall amount is still insignificant to create any systemic risk,” said Ladha. An outflow of $8 billion from foreign exchange reserves of over $400 billion is not a reason to worry for economists.
  
