DEHRADUN: In a revelation that has sent shockwaves throughout the staid campus of the   for the Visually Handicapped ( ) in the city, an enquiry conducted by the   ( ) has found that a visually impaired teacher working in the music department of the institute had been involved in sexually assaulting his male students for almost a decade.
 
  The enquiry was conducted following a complaint to the commission by the father of a student a few weeks ago alleging that his son was twice sodomised by the teacher.
  
  The visually impaired student had also submitted his complaint to the institute, a copy of which is with TOI, that says, “On February 13 while returning from Jaipur by train, my music teacher thought that I was asleep and assaulted me sexually in the train. A similar incident happened on March 5 when I was called inside his room for practising music and was sexually assaulted by him again.”
  
  Following the complaint, the commission constituted an enquiry panel which found that the student’s allegations were true. The panel in its report submitted on May 17 said that they had found that the teacher had been involved in similar acts with multiple other students as well for almost a decade.
  
  The commission has now sent a notice to the institute mentioning the instances of such assaults, most of which were perpetrated after the teacher used to call victims inside his room on the pretext of teaching them music.
  
  The commission has also recommended strict action against the teacher including booking him under stringent provisions of the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.  , member of UCRC who participated in the enquiry, told TOI, “ Based on our investigation, we have come to the conclusion that the teacher is a morally bankrupt and mentally unfit individual. Not only was he preying on innocent children bringing shame to the pious teacher-student relationship, we also found that he was a wife-beater and used to thrash his wife mercilessly and often lock her up in the bathroom.”
  
  She added that “there had been similar complaints against the teacher in 2006 and 2007, but no action was taken.” “Parents of the victim students chose to remove their wards from the institute rather than fight for justice. In the interest of students and society at large, it is important that the man should be arrested immediately and thrown behind bars otherwise he will continue committing such acts.”
  
  When queried about the matter, Anuradha Dalmia, director, NIVH said, “As soon as we had received a complaint from the student, we constituted an independent one-man enquiry committee to investigate the matter. This week, we are serving a chargesheet to the teacher concerned and he will be given a chance to present his side. A final decision on the matter will be subsequently taken by the institute.”
