Nagpur: MahaMetro’s consultant for Nagpur Metro phase II Rites has suggested that Dattawadi and not Wadi should be connected with Metro network.  Initially, Rites had suggested Wadi area be connected with Vasudeo Nagar station on Sitabuldi-Hingna stretch. However, this involved acquiring land belonging to Ordnance Factory Ambajhari (OFAJ). The factory officials were extremely reluctant to part with their land. They suggested the Metro viaduct should pass through their colony. “The road inside the OFAJ Colony is not very wide and constructing a viaduct would have been difficult. Rites therefore decided to drop the Wadi option. The viaduct for connecting Dattawadi with Vasudeo Nagar will be constructed over Inner Ring Road. We will be able to provide connectivity to people working in the commercial establishments on this road. Moreover, Rites has found out that Dattawadi’s commuter population is more than Wadi,” MahaMetro managing director Brijesh Dixit told the media on Saturday. On the detailed project report (DPR) for Phase-II, Dixit said, “It is complete and will be submitted to us within a few days. We will then submit it to state government. The state after approving it will send it to the Centre.” On Metro service to nearby towns, he said, “The Ministry of Railways has agreed to sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with us. We will seek funding for buying coaches after MoU is signed. We will ask Railways to run the trains for us. They will have three coaches, which will be air-conditioned and of international standards. The trains will run at a speed of 120 kilometres per hour. Nagpur will get connectivity with Bhandara Road, Wardha, Ramtek and Katol.” On Lokmanya Nagar (Hingna) to Subhash Nagar stretch, Dixit said it would be complete in the second half of the year. “The Sitabuldi-Mihan stretch will be ready in another six to eight months. We will then begin commercial operations,” he added. The MD said that Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) had asked MahaMetro to prepare DPR of Thane Metro. “It will be ready in another five or six months. The length of network is 30 km,” he added.