BHOPAL: A BCom student died in a crash on VIP Road while out on a joyride with two friends on his 400cc bike around midnight on Thursday. Neither of them was wearing a helmet.

 What makes it even more chilling is that one of the passersby who gathered around the three injured youngsters stole the dead man’s mobile phone and wallet.
 
 
  
 
 The victim, 22-year-old Altaf-Ur-Rahman, studied in Saifia College and had allowed a friend to drive his bike. An eyewitness told TOI that the bike skidded 50-60 metres after the crash. Altaf was thrown headlong into a pair of dustbins and his skull was split open. It was the witness called police and ambulance. What happened next was equally shocking. It seems someone in the crowd stole Altaf’s wallet and phone as he lay dying. The thief ejected the SIM card so that the phone can’t be traced. A medical student found the SIM on the footpath and realizing that it could be the victim’s, inserted in her phone to call his family. It was then that Altaf’s father, who had been calling him for a long time, got through, only to learn of the accident.
 
 Speed Kills; Thief  
 
 A midnight joyride turned into tragedy when three friends on a 400cc motorcycle crashed on VIP Road, killing one of them on the spot. The other two suffered fractures but will survive. Neither of them was wearing a helmet.
 
 The victim, Altaf-Ur-Rahman, had gone to a party with his family and stepped out with two friends around 11.30pm. He gave one of them the keys to his sports bike and himself sat on the rear.
 
 
 It appears the trio crashed because the driver wasn’t used to the bike, and the stopping power of its dual disc brakes. Graphics designer Syed Mubarak, who was out on his usual night walk, saw the two racing down VIP Road at midnight.
 
 He told TOI that the trio raced into a curve at a very high speed and the driver couldn’t control the bike. He braked hard, but lost balance.
 
 Altaf, who was third on the seat, was catapulted into the air and slammed into a pair of dustbins about 15 feet away. The bike wobbled and crashed, throwing the other two riders — Danish and   — on the road. Syed, who lives in Peer Gate, was among the first on the scene and called police and ambulance immediately.
 
 A crowd gathered, and one of them seems to have stolen Altaf’s wallet and phone as he lay dying.
 
 Two medical students were returning to Gandhi Medical College when they came across the crashed bike. Being doctors, they stopped to help. One of them saw a SIM card lying near Altaf. Realising it could be the victim’s, she inserted it in her phone in the hope of informing his family.
 
 It was at that exact moment that Altaf’s father, who had been trying his number of along time, connected. He was horrified to learn of the accident. Police and a witness told TOI that Altaf’s skull was split in two and it was clear he had died on impact. The chances of his survival would have increased had he been wearing a helmet, say police and doctors. The other two were writhing in pain.
 
 An ambulance arrived in about 20 minutes and all three were taken to Hamidia Hospital where Altaf was declared dead on arrival. Danish and Arbaz have suffered fractured limbs and lacerations on the face, but are out of danger. One of them is in a private hospital in Fatehgarh.
 
 Koh-e-Fiza police have registered a case and started investigations, but are yet to find out who was driving the bike. Investigation officer SI Narendra Belwanshi said that Altaf, a BCom student of Saifia College, lived in Sultania Road, Ibrahimpura. His father   owns a well-known tailor shop in the locality. The family is well respected in the area and one of Altaf’s sisters lives in Birmingham, England.
 
 A family friend, former corporator from  , Syed Munawwar Ali, told TOI that the family had gone to attend a function in Jumerati. “Around 11.30pm, after having dinner, he told his father that he was going out with friends. His parents went home. He and his two friends went to VIP Road for a ride on his 400cc bike. He was riding pillion,” Ali said. People had seen the youngsters triple-riding and without helmets, but no one stopped them.
 
 “When they reached near   statue on VIP Road, his friend sped increased the speed. While negotiating a turn at high speed, he accidentally applied the disk brakes suddenly. The bike stopped with a sudden jerk and skidded. Altaf, who was sitting at the last, went flying and hit a BMC dustbin kept beside the road. He died on the spot,” added Ali.
 
 When Altaf didn’t return home, his father started calling his phone. Initially, the phone kept ringing and then became ‘unreachable’, Ali said. Perhaps that is when the thief struck. “The medical students who took the father’s call remained with family at Hamidia hospital till 3.30 am,” Ali added.
 
 SI Belwanshi said that police got information about the accident from ambulance staff. “We are investigating the case,” he added.
 
