PANCHKULA: Six men broke into the Shiv temple complex in Mahadevpur, Saketri, and fled away with gold and silver jewellery adorning idols worth Rs 30 lakh in the early hours of Monday.

 The   came to light at 4 am when priests went for prayers and found the doors of six temples — two of Shiva, one of Durga, one each of Ram, Hanuman and Krishan, open. Priests called members of Shiv Mandir Navdurga Charitable Trust under which the temple is running.
 
 Trust president Keshav Ram Gupta said, “It was calculated that the stolen ornaments were worth Rs 30 lakh.”
 
 Closed-circuit television camera footage showed the six thieves, all of them in white clothes and with mufflers covering their faces, standing in front of the six temples around 1.57 am. One of the accused was wearing a cap and holding a wooden stick in his hands. The accused broke the latches with a small cutter. They did not enter the temple premises from the main entry and jumped into the compound from one of its sides, police said.
 
 The stolen items included 16 silver crowns, 12 silver “chhatra”, one gold crown, one silver flute from Krishan’s idol, eight gold nose rings, three silver articles and nine gold jewellery. The accused did not steal cash lying in the donation box.
 
 The temple has a total of 32 CCTV cameras. When the thieves struck, 11 people, including seven priests, two security guards and two gaushala caretakers, were inside the temple.
 
 A team of cops headed by assistant superintendent of police (ASP)   along with   complex station house officer sub-inspector   and a forensic team examined the crime scene and collected fingerprints.
 
 A team of CIA (crime investigation agency) headed by inspector   also reached the temple at 12 noon and prepared a list of persons present in the temple at the time of the incident. Cops suspects the involvement of an insider.
 
 ASP Singla said, “We are looking after various angles. The accused will be arrested soon in the case.” A case was registered under different sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC).
 
