CHANDIGARH: Six stone pelting cases were registered in four years by the Government railway police (GRP) of the   out of which children were involved in four of them. Officials of GRP were concerned that with summer vacations inching closer, incidents of stone pelting woukld return.

 As per the railways, in the past five years from 2014 till date in 2018, six cases of stone pelting were registered by the GRP, out of which four happend in the month of June and July when kids enjoy their summer vacations. The age group of the kids involved in this heinous crime is between 9 and 14 years, as per GRP officials.
 
 In two cases, adults were also involved in stone pelting on the   Express. There are six Shatabdis which ply up and down from New Delhi to Chandigarh which were the main targets of these stone pelters, according to GRP officials.
 
 In the past, three cases were registered near Washing line which is near the Vikas Nagar colony, one each near Manimjara, Ghaggar and Chandi Mandir. Raj Kumar, SHO GRP said that no stone pelting was reported from the areas which are prone to it in the past one year. He said that the staff is inspecting those areas and counsel the children on a day-to-day basis who were involved in such activities due to which the incidents are negligible in the division. 
 
 Kumar said that as the vacations are approaching, they are planning to hold counselling campus in nearby villages where the children were involved in the past. 
 
 One of the serious issue which the GRP faces is that in majority of the cases, the passengers hesitate to make an official complaint against stone pelters even though the passengers are eyewitnesses due to which patrolling team at own register a complaint of such incident. In 2015 when a group of kids were involved in stone pelting and a window pane was cracked, the passenger who was sitting on that seat refused to register any compliant against anybody. It was the GRP which registered the case on its own.
 
 The three accused of stone pelting at Shatabdi were released by the court as there was no eyewitness. He said that kids were issued warning by the RPF number of times but that does not affect much on them.
 
 Punishment as per railway act 
 
 As per the railway act 1989 under Section 152, a person involved in stone pelting on the train will be sentenced to a minimum of 10 years of imprisonment and maximum life time. The court can also impose a fine on the offender.
 
