HYDERABAD: Altogether 500 people from the LGBTQ community attended the 6th pride parade of Hyderabad on Sunday from   to GHMC park, Amberpet.

 Participants took to the streets against Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code criminalising sex, against the order of nature.
 
 
 “Love has no gender and my bedroom is my right, that is what supporting the pride parade. Unless we come out and take the streets, nobody will hear our plight. This pride parade is very important for the community,” said  , a transgender in the parade.
 
 As the rally was being conducted, nearly 50 police from law and order department along with women officers were deployed throughout the route for the queer community.
 
 “This year, the name of the parade has been given as ‘Hyderabad Swabhimana Yatra’, which means, we take pride in what we are. Even when the society calls us outcasts , we still celebrate this day to make them aware and help them understand, that we just need freedom to love who we want,” said another queer member,  .
 
 Activists say this year, several new faces have joined their cause, including many allies from heterosexual community.
 
 “We saw a lot of support from heterosexual people as well. I can see lot of new faces, who have come out in the society as queer. This day is important, the bond between us and our allies becomes stronger on this day,” he added.
 
 “This was my first time attending the Pride, it felt good to see so many youngsters out their fighting for their rights and 'coming out of their closet',” said  , a non-queer person who attended the parade.
 
 She said the community needs to reach out to parents to educate them, and make them a part of this pride as well, though it is tough but achievable.
 
 “Being a heterosexual I totally support their cause, while, they should never be discriminated against. Transgenders face atrocities in the city and no one cares. Even if they are murdered or raped, the news does not come out,” said   from Radio Mirchi95 in Hyderabad who attended the parade.
 
