THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: After meteorological department’s warning on  , triggered by cyclonic storm ‘Mekunu’ over westcentral Arabian sea, the district administration has initiated necessary steps to meet emergency situations. The city witnessed moderate rainfall on Friday evening. 

 Ahead of the predicted onset of southwest   on Tuesday, the India meteorological department has issued a warning on the possibility of heavy rains, on Saturday. 
 
 The district administration has directed control rooms in Chirayinkeezhu, Kattakkada, Nedumangad, Neyyatinkara, Varkala and Thiruvananthapuram taluks to function 24 hours in view of the warning. More officials have been deputed to the control rooms. Deputy collector (disaster management) Anu S Nair said that relief camps will be opened if required. 
 
 The alert issued by the district administration has advised people to restrict travel to hilly regions between 7pm and 7am as ther is chance for landslides. The district administration has issued a directive to the district tourism promotion council (DTPC) to ensure that people visiting beaches are monitored. The DTPC is also monitoring the situation at Ponmudi and Meenmutti where tourist traffic is high as these are the last days of summer vacation.
 
 The district administration has warned people not to park vehicles under trees and not to enter rivers and streams during rain. 
 
 Also, steps have been taken to ensure that fishermen will not venture into sea during these days. As per   prediction, southwest monsoon is expected to reach the state, which is the gateway of monsoon in country, on Tuesday. 
 
 The district administration has given alerts to officials of irrigation department and KWA to keep a watch over Neyyar and Peppara dams. However Neyyar dam with water level of 80.4 metres and Peppara with 102.5 metres are much below the maximum level of 84.75 metres and 107.5 metres respectively. 
 
 As per IMD, strong winds and squally weather is expected over Kerala coast till Wednesday.
 
 
