NEW DELHI: The   of Delhi government has ordered   against the   of the state’s   (CPA) for alleged  , a charge denied by the officer.

 CPA procures medicines and surgical consumables for all hospitals run by Delhi government. Sources said the action against the CPA director came after multiple notices to the agency to submit documents on the basis of which the tender was decided went unheeded. “The CPA director failed to furnish relevant documents despite several reminders,” an official said. He added that letters written to the state health secretary last year also failed elicit a clear response.
 
 The vigilance department, in its latest missive to the special secretary (health), has asked for an action taken report in the matter. It has also raised the issue of recovery of Rs 3.32 crore.
 
 TOI spoke to Dr Vijoy Kumar, the CPA director, who denied any wrongdoing. “There is no corruption case against me. The audit division has asked for some documents related to purchases made over the last few years and there was delay in furnishing them,” he said. Kumar added that the CPA was extremely short-staffed, with only 10-12 regular employees against the requirement of at least 40-50, and that’s why they couldn’t respond to the audit division in time.
 
 “On Friday, we didn’t work on any new purchases. The whole department was asked to furnish documents to be submitted to the vigilance and audit department. We will do the same on Saturday also and submit every document as desired,” he said.
 
 CPA deals with more than 200 suppliers and has a budget of several crores of rupees. It receives requests from all state-run hospitals and, based on that, tenders are prepared and medicines or consumables purchased. If the medicines sold by a certain supplier fails quality test, CPA has to recover the amount paid for the same. Sources said the audit department was investigating whether in some cases, the recovery had not been made and why. But CPA officials said they were in the process of recovering the money.
 
 
