Mohali: The city police are still unsure as to under what charges Lt Col Baljit Singh Sandhu, WWICS chairman and his employees - Gurvinder Singh Bains, Balwinder Singh and Tarsem Chand should be booked. Sandhu and others are being accused for shifting the body of the victim found in water tank of Sewerage Treatment Plant (STP) situated inside the Forest Hill Golf and country club resort in Karoran village in Nayagaon. 

 Sources in the police department said that the cops are now mulling to replace Section 302 of the IPC with Section 304-A of the IPC. Section 302 invokes murder charges whereas Section 304-A denotes causing death by negligence.
 
 Sources said that the change is being made because the evidences collected from the spot and police investigations reveal that the cause of death was drowning as the lid of the water tank was left open. It is being cited as negligence on the part of owner as well as employees.
 
 However, the police also believe that other sections pertaining to destroying evidences and criminal conspiracy remain. Subsequently, Lt Col Sandhu's statement has become an important tool in the case. V Neerja, the head of SIT, said, "At present, we are looking at it as a murder case. An inference will be drawn once statement of Lt Col Sandhu is recorded after his arrest. The motive of crime is also yet to be ascertained. However, it is confirmed that the three employees were obeying Sandhu, their employer and in the audio recording of mobile he is heard directing one of his employees to go as per plan. At present, the cops are trying to find the whereabouts of Sandhu."
 
 Sandhu has been evading arrest since Abhishek's body was recovered on March 25. SIT also twice obtained non-bailable arrest warrants for Sandhu from the court. However, police is yet to find out as to how Abhishek entered the forest hill resort as at around 11:50 pm he was spotted roaming outside the resort in CCTV footage. But, there is no evidence of him entering the resort. Later, CIA arrested three employees for allegedly dumping the body of Abhishek on March 25 while they were returning after dumping the body of Abhishek Guleria near Basol village forest area on Pinjore-Baddi road. 
 
 
