AHMEDABAD: Miffed at being handed just a third of the cash he was promised, Surat’s paddler  , Gujarat’s only gold medal winner at the recently concluded 21st Commonwealth Games at the   in Australia, shot off a letter to chief minister   over discrepancies in cash awards for medalists from the state.

 
 According to the website of the sports, youth and cultural activities department of the state government, gold medal winners at the Commonwealth Games are given a cash award of Rs 1 crore, while silver and bronze medalists get Rs 50 lakh and Rs 25 lakh, respectively.
 
 Desai had won gold in the men’s team event and bronze in the men’s doubles. However, Desai, who was felicitated in Rajkot on Thursday, told TOI that the Gujarat government paid him only ₹33 lakh as his cash award, ostensibly because his win was in a team event. Desai said players from other states have received full cash awards even for team events. He added that he has not received the cash award for the men’s doubles bronze medal at all.
 
 “Very excited to meet the Gujarat CM @vijayrupanibjp today. I hope I won’t be deprived of what I deserve. I hope your decision will not disappointment or dishearten me and the people of Gujarat,” tweeted Harmeet Desai on his official Twitter account.
 
  
 
 Desai said: “States like Haryana, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra give their gold medal winners in all disciplines the full amount, even if it is a team event. I am only asking why I have got one third of the cash award.”
 
 “I am the only medal winner from Gujarat. I raised a question about this (verbally) with the CM today. He assured me that I will be get enhanced prize money after being considered as a special case,” Desai said.
 
 Calling the state’s policy “unusual”, Desai said that this has happened to him for a second time. At the Commonwealth Asian Championships (Seniors) in 2015, Desai clinched gold in both the men’s team event and the men’s doubles. Then too, he received just a third of the promised cash award, again the reason given was that he was part of a team. He says he had written to the state government at that time as well. 
 
 Government spokesperson and deputy chief minister   could not be reached for a comment.
 
