LUDHIANA: As soon as India’s mixed badminton team clinched its maiden gold medal after defeating three-time defending champions   3-1 on day five of the 2018 Commonwealth Games (CWG) in Gold Coast, Australia on Monday, a wave of happiness swept through Ludhiana. The family members of Indian shutter Pranav Chopra erupted in celebrations at their house in Ludhiana. Pranav is part of India’s badminton contingent.

 The district badminton fraternity is proud of Pranav (25), who hails from the industrial town. The fraternity believes this win will inspire the other district-level badminton players to put in more effort and encourage them to bring glory to the nation in the forthcoming days.
 
  Chopra, the father of Pranav, said the shuttler picked up a badminton racquet early in his life. “It’s taken a lot of hard work and dedication to reach this stage in life. Pranav developed a keen interest in badminton in his childhood. He always used to come with me to Satluj Club near   where I mostly went to play badminton in the evening,” he said.
 
 After sending the first 10 years of his life in Ludhiana, Pranav moved to Mumbai for advance training in badminton. He first trained under renowned badminton player   and later joined Pullela Gopichand Badminton Academy in Hyderabad for further training.
 
 Within a few years, he entered the game and became a part of the best 21 elite class group players from across the nation, courtesy his performance in the state and national-level events under the supervision of the Indian badminton association.
 
 Pranav came to limelight when he bagged the bronze medal at the Commonwealth Youth Games in 2008 in the boy’s double event. Soon after, he starting showcasing his skills in mix doubles’ event, recalled Mohinder, a city-based exporter of engineer products.
 
 The father is hopeful that his son will perform well in the individual events too at Commonwealth Games. “We are sure he will make the nation proud,” said his father with a smile. The father also added, “Pranav wants to hone his skills further and take the badminton standards a few notches higher in the district.”
 
 The young shuttler’s brother, Tanav, said, “Pranav’s achievement inspires others. My daughters had also watched Pranav on television when they were celebrating the win. This win of the Indian badminton team will inspire others to take up the sport. It was a great feeling to see Pranav winning a gold medal at an international level,” said an elated Tanav.
 
 Shama, the mother of Pranav, stated that she along with her daughter-in-law Garima and granddaughters were glued to the television since Monday afternoon. They even skipped lunch to watch the game.
 
 “I was so happy to see the Indian team win. Pranav stood along with his teammates on the podium and received the medal. It was a proud moment for me. We have been receiving calls from relatives and friends since morning,” she said.
 
 Indian badminton contingent in CWG 2018
 
 Saina Nehwal
 
 PV Sindhu
 
 HS Pronoy
 
 Kidambi Srikanth
 
 Ashwini Ponnappa
 
 Satwik Rankireddy
 
 Pranaav Chopra
 
 Chirag Shetty
 
 Sikki Reddy
 
 Ruthvika Shivani G
 
 
