NAGPUR: A study conducted by the Smart City’s special purpose vehicle Nagpur Smart and Sustainable City Development Corporation Ltd (NSSCDCL) has suggested integration of Metro rail and city bus services. A single authority for the two services has been found as best solution for sustainable public transport in the city.

 TOI was the first to report about NSSCDCL’s plan to merge city bus with Metro rail on December 19, 2017. In order to have sustainable public transport in the city, NSSCDCL had on December 18, 2017 directed Smart City’s project management consultant— UK-based Grant Thornton India— to conduct a study on this.
 
 After four months, Grant Thornton India has submitted 34-paged report to CEO of NSSCDCL Ramnath Sonawane a couple of days ago. It will be tabled before the board of directors of NSSCDCL in the next meeting.
 
 Sources from Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) told TOI that NSSCDCL would also finalize roadmap towards integration of Metro rail and city bus. 
 
 “There are two options for that: either an agreement be executed between NMC and MahaMetro or the state government assigns city bus service to MahaMetro. Chairman of  , who is also additional chief secretary to CM Devendra Fadnavis, is positive towards integration of the two services. 
 
 “Municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal is ready to hand over city bus service to MahaMetro. Fadnavis and union minister Nitin Gadkari will be taking the final decision,” the sources said.
 
 The study was conducted on three points— integration of Metro rail and city bus, formation of   and formation of a new special purpose vehicle for operating the two services.
 
 “Comparative assessment of three options found integration of two services easiest and most sustainable. MahaMetro is going to launch its own feeder bus service for Metro rail. Its own study suggested various changes in routes and number of city buses. 
 
 “Disputes between the city bus and Metro rail cannot be ruled out if both are operated separately. Integration of bus service with Metro will save MahaMetro the expense on feeder service. 
 
 “Also, MahaMetro’s plan to launch common mobility card for seamless travel can be implemented in an effective manner. MahaMetro has to just establish a separate department to operate city buses,” sources said.
 
 Ruling party leader Sandip Joshi said Gadkari will take final call on the issue after decision of NSSCDCL board. “We will discuss on the report. But I personally feel there should be a separate authority that operate and maintain the two services instead of handing over entire service to MahaMetro,” he said.
 
 Opposition leader Tanaji Wanve said opposition group will welcome integration if bus service was going to improve and benefit the citizens. “I will be in a better position to respond only after going through the report,” he said.
 
 NMC functions as per the Maharashtra Municipal Corporations (MMC) Act. It is not the duty of the NMC to run public transport. NMC has taken up the services as MSRTC decided to abandon it in 2007. Therefore, there would be no problems in handing over services to MahaMetro. NMC general body will need to approve it and that was easy if Fadnavis and Gadkari ask the BJP corporators to do so
 
 NMC will be required to hand over lands on which depots, parking, and bus stops are established. NMC is incurring a loss of over Rs 100 crore per annum on city bus service, so transferring properties will not be difficult task
 
 Expected Growth: Study has found public transportation will increase from existing 9% to 30% in case bus services merged with Metro rail. A citizen can get bus from his/her residence to Metro rail station and then again a bus to reach office, markets etc with integration of two services. Also, common mobility card can be very effective. Communication between authority and commuters will be easy. All these can increase number of passengers and revenue
 
 NMC’s Failure: 356 city buses are in operation despite the need of 487. Requirement is 50 buses for every 1 lakh population but existing ratio is 8 buses per 1 lakh population. Average speed is 27kmph as against requirement of 35kmph. Payments to bus operators is not regular resulting in regular strikes and poor service
 
 
