NEW DELHI: The decision of the   leadership to ask two of its ministers in the Jammu & Kashmir government to quit was intended to cool tensions with partner PDP and prevent the coalition from collapsing over the controversial issue of ministers allegedly supporting the accused in the   and murder case.

 
 The withdrawal of   and   from the Mehbooba Mufti government followed the BJP brass taking the view that their participation in protests in favour of the accused and the demand for a CBI inquiry was unacceptable because they were a part of the state cabinet. The party was also reacting to rising public outrage and sharp opposition attacks that BJP was politicising the death of the 8-year-old victim and choosing to support the accused held by the J&K police.
 
 The party brass was also concerned that the issue could lead to a flashpoint with PDP, with the ally vocalising its ire. Tassaduq Mufti’s comment on the plummeting trust in the state government after the crime were seen as a fairly direct hint that ties were fraying dangerously. 
 
 Prime Minister   acted through his public comments on Saturday to set the party line and quell any ambiguity over BJP’s response to the protests in favour of the accused irrespective of the communal fault-lines in Jammu, where the party has consolidated its electoral support since the 2014 Lok Sabha elections.
 
 The unease in PDP-BJP relations has been growing in the wake of the Centre’s tough policy in confronting terrorists supported by Pakistan, which has resulted in the death of locals who protested near encounter sites. The possibility of PDP using the valley-Jammu schism over the Kathua crime, and even moving to act against BJP ministers, would have triggered a full-scale crisis in the coalition government.
 
 The BJP leadership, said sources, also considered feedback that the Muslim nomadic population, the community the victim hailed from, has been very much part of the demographics of Jammu and can hardly be targeted as outsiders as was happening in the communally charged events at Kathua. Being seen to support such arguments would only rob the party of any credibility when it comes to arguing that it is opposed to people in India illegally and not communities residing in the country. 
 
 
