LUDHIANA: A day after TOI highlighted the issue of excise and taxation department sending notices to thousands of businessmen for assessment of their six-year-old tax returns, more cases have come to light in which notices for assessment were sent to businessmen even for three consecutive years. 

 Meanwhile, anger amongst businessmen is brewing and more business associations have come forward to oppose the action of department. The government too has come under fire as industrialists are claiming that there was no such harassment under previous Akali government. Warning that they would resort to protest if the department did not close more than three-year-old cases, businessmen are alleging that the department has deliberately opened the old cases because after the start of new financial year (April 1, 2018) excise and taxation department will have no authority to reopen the old cases due to provisions mentioned in GST. 
 
 President of  , (FMAI)  , said, “Excise and taxation department is working as if it is Taliban’s rule in   and worst is that the   government which claims to be the biggest well-wisher of industrialists is watching our harassment as a mute spectator. The department’s intentions are clear with the fact that notices for two to three years assessment are being issued to the tax payers just to entangle them in three cases each.”
 
 Bhamra also added, “We are giving 10 days’ time to the department and government for stopping this undue harassment and take back all notices older than three years, else we will start series of protest against the government.
 
 Speaking to TOI, president of Ludhiana Iron Sheet traders association (LISTA) Roshan Lal Singla said, “We had brought this government in power for betterment of trade and industry but unfortunately nothing is visible. Business community had voted for Congress for prosperity of businesses and avoidance of harassment at the hands of government departments. But silence of Congress leaders on the issue is really shocking. The notices are being sent in bulk by the department and I think this is the first time that such high number of notices have been issued in Ludhiana. 
 
 Sharing his ordeal, a furniture manufacturer based in Industrial Area, who spoke to TOI on condition of anonymity said, “I am being harassed from the past 15 days as the department first opened a case of my firm for the year 2012-13 and when I completed all the formalities, they have now sent me a notice for assessment for the year 2011-12. It seems like a deliberate act. Moreover, they had accepted my returns six years ago. What took them so long to point out a discrepancy in it now,” he lamented.
 
 
