GURUGRAM: A Delhi resident, posing as a   employee, cheated at least 18   credit   of over Rs 1 lakh. Though an FIR has been lodged and police claimed to have identified the fake bank employee as Mahendra, a resident of Ramesh Enclave in Kirari, following the trails of banking transactions, they are yet to arrest anyone in this regard.

 Police said the fake SBI employee would call customers and trick them into sharing their credit card and other bank account details, including the expiry dates and CVV numbers. Then, he would log on to their bank accounts through netbanking and change their registered mobile phone numbers with that of his own. Later, he would transfer money from their cards to his own accounts, through netbanking.
 
 Preliminary probe suggests that following this modus operandi, Mahendra had transferred Rs 1, 04,946 to his two accounts with Kotak Mahindra Bank between February and September last year.
 
 The repeated incidents of cheating came to light after several aggrieved customers approached the office of SBI Cards and Payment Services Private Limited at Infinity Tower in Cyber City and complained about fraudulent withdrawal of money from their accounts.
 
 Subsequently,  , deputy vice-president (criminal litigation), SBI Cards and Payment Services Private Limited, lodged a complaint at DLF 2 police station last month.
 
 A cop at the cybercrime cell said since the caller had changed the mobile numbers registered with the bank beforehand, the customers did not get any OTP or alert message when he carried out the transactions. 
 
 “In most cases, the customers got to know about the cheating only after receiving their monthly credit card bills,” he added.
 
 On the recommendation of the cybercrime cell, an FIR has been filed under Section 420 (cheating) of the IPC and Sections 66 and 66C of the Information Technology Act, at DLF 2 police station. 
 
 “We have filed a case against Mahendra as all the money was transferred to his accounts with Kotak Mahindra Bank. We are investigating the matter and the accused will be arrested soon,” said Rajesh Kumar, additional SHO, DLF 2 police station.
 
 When contacted for further details, Banerjee said a police probe was on and thus, they would not like to share more on the matter at this moment. 
 
 “We are waiting for the arrest of the accused,” he added.
 
 
