CHANDIGARH: Police on Wednesday arrested the second accused in the Sector 29   case of 2016 from Delhi.

 A local court sent the accused in judicial custody, while his test identification parade would be conducted on jail premises on Thursday.
 
 The accused is the brother-in-law of prime accused  . Police said the accused told them that he and Irfan used to commit rapes after making a plan. The two were also involved in the gang rape of a 21-year-old woman in Sector 53 in 2017.
 
 DSP (east division)   said the accused came to meet Irfan in the city on December 18, 2016. Both of them had picked up the call centre employee in an auto from Sector 34 and raped her in a forest in Sector 29. They had used the same auto in the rape case Sector 53 rape case in 2017. Mohammad Irfan was driving the auto and the second accused was sitting as a passenger, the DSP told.
 
 Police said the accused was arrested on the disclosure of Irfan. “After his test identification parade, his DNA samples will be sent for examination,” police said. Irfan’s DNA samples have already matched with the rape survivor. He was sent in in three-day police remand on Tuesday.
 
 The DSP said the second accused used to unload vegetables from trucks in a Delhi market and is the father of three children. Police suspect the two accused had raped more women in the Tricity and other states. Police fear the two could also be behind the death of 25-year-old woman, who died after falling from an auto near the poultry farm roundabout in 2016.
 
 
 
 Police suspect both the accused were involved in a rape case of Mohali. The woman was gang-raped in the auto at knife-point in 2016. However, she did not lodge a formal report. Police said they would contact that woman and investigate the case. Police would also interrogate the accused in connection with the death of Rajni, 25, a resident of Hallomajra. She had died after falling from a moving auto rickshaw near the poultry farm round about on March 22, 2017. The victim’s husband had alleged that Rajni was pushed from the vehicle or she jumped to save herself.
 
 
 
 Police sources said the two accused committed the two rapes in a per-planned manner. After consuming liquor, Mohammad Irfan, the main accused, and his brother-in-law went out in a search of women in their auto. Police said they targeted women in the age group of 20 to 25. Sources said when any woman used to indicate Irfan to stop the auto, he used to first drop his relative around 200 metres away and then return to take the passenger. He then used to then pick up his relative, acting as if he was also a passenger. The accused had adopted this modus operandi in both the gang rape cases of sectors 29 and 53
 
 
