NEW DELHI: If you are planning to get the   cleared on your   account, be careful against clicking on links offering easy KYCs. A man from Vasant Vihar fell victim to one such online fraud where he lost Rs 27,000 after he tried to clear the KYC using a   that had come as an advertisement on e-wallet page.

 The man, Mahender Singh, told the cops that after clicking on the link, he received a call from a person named Rakesh Kumar. Kumar claimed that he was calling from the customer care of the e-wallet company. He asked Singh to link his wallet to his bank account to clear his KYC formalities. Kumar directed him to click on another link and enter his mobile phone details, card details and identity proof.
 
 “I did not worry about entering the details, since I was thought that the person who was calling me was from the office of the e-wallet company. Moreover, after entering the details no money was immediately deducted from the account, which usually happens in case of online frauds,” said Singh.
 
 However, after entering the details, Kumar asked Singh to fill Rs 2001 into his e-wallet to ensure the KYC is complete. After sometime, Singh received a message about a transaction of Rs 2,700 from his e-wallet account, in which someone had bought virtual gold worth the amount.
 
 When he called up the customer care desk of the e-wallet, the executives told him that the transaction was made by him from his account. 
 
 “They even told me that a one-time password was sent to my mobile number that I had punched in to complete the transaction,” said Singh.
 
 When he checked, it was found that the e-wallet was now registered with a person named Reena. 
 
 There were subsequent transactions of Rs 9,999 and Rs 4,000 from the account, during which the money was taken from his bank account.
 
 Singh said that in a few more transactions his bank account became nearly empty, after which he reached the Vasant Vihar police station to register a complaint.
 
 A case of cheating under section 420 IPC (cheating) has been registered and efforts are being made to trace down the person who had called Singh. The number was found to be switched off.
 
 
