Twenty-four-year-old   has been a professional cyclist for the last two years. But now, it’s after a month that he’s taking his cycle out for a leisure ride. For someone who claims to be addicted to  , it’s quite a big hiatus. But Raj Kumar says that it’s because he has been on a much-needed break after completing the Brevet Indo-Nepal Trance Border 1,400km, last month. “It was such an arduous ride for various reasons. Possibly, the toughest so far. I had inflammations all over the body. So, I was in recovery phase. I was only doing strengthening workout the last few weeks; I never touched the cycle,” he says.
Raj and two more Chennaiites,   and  , completed the four-day-long ride along with a couple of other riders from different parts of the country. “We started off from Delhi, crossed the Indo-Nepal border and went about another 300km through Nepal before we taking a U-turn and heading back to Delhi. People like me, who are from Chennai, are used only to warm weather. But it was extremely cold in all the places we rode through. The temperature even dipped to 2-3 degrees. We knew it would be cold and were prepared, but never expected it to be this bad.” 
 Echoing what Raj says, Senthil adds, “Our fingers were kind of numb because it was extremely cold. Even to shift gear, I couldn’t do it using one finger as I normally do. Mist would cover the helmet and if droplets fell on thighs while cycling, it would feel as if something just pierced through your body. And for most parts of the day, it was almost zero visibility because of the fog.” 
 
 
  
 
 Added to the extreme climatic condition, the riders had to cross three wildlife sanctuaries during the ride, says Raj. “We wouldn’t know what we would come across in these wildlife sanctuaries. We had to take some risk and ride through them. I came across a wild elephant during the ride. It was scary.”
 Despite all the hardships that they went through, they say that they cherish every moment of it. Says Robert, “Our minds were set on completing the ride and our bodies listened and cooperated very well. The feeling when I crossed the finish line was ecstatic and I’ll remember this ride for years to come. There were times when I was out of my comfort zone. But the thought of quitting never crossed my mind. If you ask me, one should quit such a ride only under two conditions — when they face an adverse physical or mechanical issue. Neither of which happened with me and I was focused only on completing the event.” 
 
 
  
 
 Raj says that after crossing over to Nepal, it was motivating to see so many people using cycles on roads there. “There, everyone — from kids to working professionals — uses cycles to commute. Unlike here, the roads are full of cycles and the farming lands on both sides of the roads are a sight to behold.”
 Now, they all are focused on the 2019 Paris-Brest-Paris (PBP), which is like a dream event for all of them. “It’s a prestigious ride in endurance cycling and all my thoughts are about taking part in that. The immediate events will be the Road Beast 1,000km ride in Chennai, the Gates of Heaven 1,200km ride in Bangalore and many more shorter brevets,” says Robert. As for Raj, he says, “Now, I am concentrating on completing another Super Randonneur series (200km, 300km, 400km and 600km), which will help me qualify for the PBP.” 
 
