BENGALURU: Now, citizens can access online the Record of Rights, Tenancy and Crops ( ) or Pahani, as it is known in local parlance, an important document needed while buying an apartment or a piece of land in  . 

 The government has started issuing RTCs online to curb bogus transactions. “This will help reduce the number of fraudulent activities that are quite prevalent in recent times while selling or buying revenue or agriculture land, considering that about 2 crore RTCs are issued every year,’’ said  , commissioner, land survey, settlement and land records department.
 
 Using the revenue department’s Bhoomi portal, anyone now can access and print the original RTC by mentioning the district, taluk, village name and survey numbers. They can pay the charges through credit/debit cards or net banking using SBI’s gateway. 
 
 “The public will be able to access their or others’ land record details online and get RTCs without compromising on security,’’ Moudgil said.
 
 While the urbanities will benefit from the online service to check the authenticity of the land record, farmers can access these records without visiting the government office and print on plain white sheets. The online service was started by the government after completing its Bhoomi project — digitization of land records — to empower all gram panchayats to issue RTCs for Rs 10 per copy. Earlier, the copies were printed only on pre-printed stationery papers, which were considered expensive. “Now, RTCs can be printed on a plain sheet of paper. This will help farmers when they need RTC copies to avail agriculture loans,’’ a revenue department official said. 
 
 Also, banks can check ownership status, view records and enter loan charge to avoid multiple loans by other banks.
 
 
 
 
 It’s a document containing land records, issued in the name of existing legal owners of the land. If you are a land owner, you must have a RTC as it is not only used to indicate lawful owners of the property, it also contains original measurements of the land. If you are an apartment owner, then a ‘joint pahani’ is issued under the name of all the joint owners, although the exact share of each individual is not mentioned as reflected in their sale deeds. An RTC is always issued in hectares/acres for village properties, with the signatures of the tahsildar and deputy tahsildar.
 
 
 
 
 To find RTC, farmers can visit www.bhoomi.karnataka.gov.in. SMS alerts are sent to the seller and purchaser of the land once application for mutation extract is filed. In case of any mistakes in crop details in mutation records, complaints can be lodged at the local office.
 
 
