PATNA: India   ( ) has forecast showers at isolated places in the state on Wednesday and Thursday.

 Patna meteorological centre director S Sengupta attributed the expected showers to a western disturbance approaching the region. “Isolated showers have been forecast on March 20 and 21 for Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha,” Sengupta said.
 
 The IMD bulletin on Monday stated that a western disturbance as an upper air cyclonic circulation was lying over Iran and adjoining Afghanistan. An induced cyclonic circulation was also situated over south Pakistan and adjoining southwest Rajasthan.
 
 Private   agency   also stated that a western disturbance is approaching the Western Himalayas. The induced cyclonic circulation has already formed over central Pakistan region.
 
 Based on the approaching western disturbance, the IMD also forecast scattered to fairly widespread rainfall in northern states, including Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana and New Delhi.
 
 Meanwhile, a trough in the westerlies was also running from east Bangladesh to interior Odisha with an embedded cyclonic circulation over north Odisha and its neighbourhood. Sources said moisture incursion from the trough may also support the showers in the eastern states.
 
 Meanwhile, Skymet stated that there was 58% countrywide cumulative pre-monsoon rainfall deficit by the end of March second week. The Skymet report stated that the country recorded 5.4mm of rain against the average rainfall of 12.8mm between March 1 and March 14.
 
 “Central India was highly rain deficit by 97%, followed by northwest India at 62%. Both east and northeast India and Peninsular India also remained rain deficit by 35% and 54%, respectively,” the Skymet report stated.
 
 Skymet attributed the scattered rainfall in east and northeast India over the past two weeks to wind confluence zone and cyclonic circulation, while hills and plains of northwest India recorded rains and snow due to western disturbance and its induced low.
 
 
