LUDHIANA: A 3-member police team came under mob attack when it had gone to arrest three murder accused at   in Meharban area late on Thursday evening. Importantly, all accused in the case escaped the spot after cops were overpowered by more than 10 people.

 By late Thursday night, police had booked 15 people and arrested two of them.
 
 Angrej Singh and his two sons — Sukha and Gaggu — were wanted for the murder of a 19-year-old Amritpal Singh of Sujatwal, who was beaten to death on April 7 over a petty issue of water accumulation in the street.
 
 Sub-inspector Davinder Sharma, SHO, Meharban police station, said ASI Joginder Pal along with constable Harpal Singh and home guard   conducted the raid at Dheri to arrest Angrej Singh and his two sons on Thursday evening.
 
 The police had even nabbed the accused from their house. But when the police team was leaving the village, the accused raised an alarm and called their accomplices for help. Following this, the relatives of Angrej reached the spot and attacked the police team. Taking advantage of the situation, the accused fled.
 
 After returning to the police station, cops registered an FIR against Angerj Singh, his two sons and relatives   and Gurpreet Singh, besides 10 unidentified accomplices under Sections of 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 225 (resistance or obstruction to lawful apprehension of another person), 332(voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty) and 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint ) of the IPC and later arrested two accused — Ghanayiya and Gurpreet Singh — from the village.
 
 The SHO said the police had launched a manhunt to arrest the rest of the accused.
 
 Overpowered
 
 ASI Joginder Pal along with constable Harpal Singh and home guard Jawan Bakhshish Singh raid Dheri village to arrest Angrej Singh and his two sons
 
 They arrest the trio from their house
 
 While leaving the spot, the key murder accused raises alarm, calling people for their help
 
 12 people, including relatives of Angrej Singh, reach the spot and attack the cops
 
 Taking advantage of the situation, the murder accused flee
 
 A few hours later, cops book 15 people for the crime and arrest two of them
 
 
