NEW DELHI: The   refused to give relief to   functionary   from the rigours of facing trial in the   filed by Union finance minister   against him and five others, including Delhi chief minister  .

 Bajpai’s counsel, senior advocate Sanjay Hegde, projected his client as a ‘small fly’ in the AAP hierarchy who always did what the AAP top leaders ordered him to do. “Bajpai is not a resident of Delhi. He stays in Kanpur. The trial court before issuing summons should have taken note of the fact that the accused is not a resident within the court’s jurisdiction and held an inquiry. This procedure was not followed and it vitiated the issuance of summons,” Hegde said.
 
 Jaitley’s counsel, senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, said the accused have always resorted to a bundle of lies and produced the advocate authorisation letter signed by Bajpai, in which he had given a Delhi address. “He has been giving this Delhi address till April this year and now suddenly decided to become a resident of Kanpur.”
 
 A bench headed by Chief Justice Dipak Misra said once the accused has been served summons, whether at the party office or at his residence, and participated in the proceedings, he could not complain of the procedure for issuance of summons being not followed at this late stage. “Moreover, the procedure was to enable the trial court to make a prima facie conclusion whether or not a case of defamation is made out or not,” the bench said.
 
 Hegde as a last resort attempted to make light of the defamation charge against Bajpai saying the small AAP functionary had only retweeted his party leader’s tweet. But, the bench said it had last month dismissed a similar plea by AAP leader Raghav Chadha. 
 
 Chadha had claimed before SC on December 15 that he had been summoned by the trial court without there being any law to be prosecuted for a re-tweet of an allegedly defamatory tweet by CM Kejriwal. “There is no law and no ruling by any court in the world declaring that re-tweet of a tweet amounts to publication of defamatory material which could be liable for prosecution,” he had said.
 
 A bench of CJI Misra and Justices A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud had disagreed with Chadha and asked: “Take for example a tweet which is per se derogatory, abusive or contains graphic pornographic material. Can one who re-tweets such a tweet say he has only re-tweeted the material and not the author of it and hence should not face prosecution? Can one who re-tweets say that he was completely oblivious to the contents of the tweet even if it is highly derogatory and pornographic?”
 
 
