On Thursday, a Delhi court stayed the release of National award-winning director  's upcoming Marathi movie 'Nude: Chitra' over plagiarism charges. Jaipur-based author   has accused the makers of the movie of copyright infringement. Manisha has alleged that the script of ' ' is an adaptation of her short story 'Kalindi', written in 2008. The court has asked the production house not to make the movie public in any manner before next the hearing on April 19. The film is scheduled for release on April 27.

  
  
 
 Nude had hit headlines last year when it was dropped from  's Indian Panorama section due to incomplete post-production. It was the jury's choice for the opening film of the Panorama section. It is the story of a woman who takes up the job of a nude model at an art college to meet the expenses of her son’s education. The film stars Kalyanee Mulay, Chhaya Kadam and Madan Deodhar, while   has played a cameo. 
 
  
  A still from the movie
 
 Manisha Kulshreshtha told us, "Last year, one of my friends told me about 'Nude's' plot, and till then, the trailer of the movie had not released. Then I got in touch with the director of the movie and asked him about the subject of the film. Without revealing any details, he asked me to send my story to him, which I did. But when I asked him to send me the script of the film, he didn't and told me that the film's script is different. But when I saw the trailer of the movie I realised that it's an adaptation of my story. The storyline, plot, manner of expression and even the name of the protagonist is the same. That's when I decided to file the case." Manisha's counsel showed the trailer of the film to the court to point out the similarities between the movie and her short story Kalindi. Manisha adds, "This is a common problem with authors of Hindi literature. Bollywood writers and directors pick the stories of Hindi writers and adapt them. The director or the production house have not agreed yet that it is my story."
 
  
  
 
  
 Even after several attempts, director Ravi Jadhav and the production house remained unavailable for comment. The film is set in Mumbai in JJ School of Arts. Ravi Jadhav, who's also an alumna of the college, had said in an earlier interview, "I graduated from   with a degree in Applied Arts in 1995, while most of my friends studied Fine Arts. When I was a student, I was curious about what happened behind the closed doors of a completely sealed studio, outside which the words 'Nude painting session on – Do Not Enter' was inscribed. During lunchtime, the models would be seated just like anyone else and students would treat them with great respect, referring to them as 'akka' or 'ma'am'. I attended a few painting sessions and there was no vulgarity in the eyes of any student. "
 
 The film was cleared by the CBFC ( ) in second viewing and jury member Vidya Balan who presided over the committee granted it an 'A' certificate with no cuts. Commenting on the plagiarism charges, Vani Tripathi Tikoo, CBFC member (she was not part of the certification process of 'Nude'), says, "I have read the story and I have also seen the trailer of the film, there are too many similarities. It's really shameful and not acceptable." 
 
 
  
  
 
