MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Tuesday issued a show-cause notice for contempt of court to a joint secretary in the school  . The court observing that she had made “contumacious” comments on oath on a binding verdict of the HC in a Right To Education (RTE) matter.

 But in a relief for Balmohan Vidya Mandir, the HC restrained the state from taking any coercive steps against the Dadar school in case of any refusal in granting admissions under the online system to 25% seats under RTE for academic year 2018-19.
 
 “Bureaucrats cannot tell us whether the court orders are right or wrong…” said a bench of Justice   and Justice Bharati Dangre.
 
 Balmohan, a state board school in Dadar had moved the HC seeking to remove “illegalities in the online system”. It assailed a government resolution of January, which laid down implementing procedures, that the school said were “contrary to the provisions of the RTE Act’’. The school also contended that the state was not implementing a judgment passed by the Nagpur bench last year that had set out how admissions were to proceed under the 25% quota. In an affidavit by the joint secretary, the education department said that “reliance on the Nagpur bench judgment was misplaced’’ in Balmohan’s case. It said that in the Nagpur case it was not brought to the court’s attention that “all aided and partially aided schools are required to impart free elementary education”. Such schools have to “mandatorily admit whichever child comes seeking admission to it, free of cost,’’ said the affidavit. 
 
 The state lawyer also said state had issued a GR in January. Deepa Chavan, counsel for Balmohan, said that the RTE provisions mandate that a child must be admitted in neighbourhood schools, however allotment letters issued by the education department under an online admission system is flawed as it does not include local body and government schools in the neighbourhood, but issues allotment to distant private unaided schools.
 
 She said that the school management is not against RTE and its salutary provisions to grant admission to students from disadvantages sections of society, but she said “The objection is to a malaise that appears to have crept in in the implementation of RTE…It has become like a licence raj.’’
 
 The Nagpur judgement passed last July on parameters to be followed while implementing RTE. It laid down that all schools in the neighbourhood have to be included while granting admission to students in 25 percent quota and availability of neighbourhood schools within one kilometer must be considered first. The judgment clearly says that schools must first give preference to students residing within 1 km and can increase the distance, to three kilometer in the second phase and 6 in the third. If schools within a kilometer are not available or seats are not available in it, then students can be allotted to schools farther away.
 
 The state lawyer opposed the petition and justified the allotment letters.
 
 
