LUDHIANA: It seems a sizeable number of voters are losing trust in political parties, as in four wards of Ludhiana, the ‘Nota’ (None of the above) option made its presence felt. Social activists who want voters to express their unhappiness with political parties assert that this is an alarming situation, where a large number of voters are pushing the Nota button.

 As per results announced by the district election authorities, in Ward No.10, Harjinder Paul of   party secured 3,749 votes, and his nearest rival Gurbax Singh of   (BJP) got 1,612 votes, while Nota got 77 votes in the ward. Similarly, in Ward No.64, even as Congress candidate Rakesh Parasher emerged victorious and secured 3,720 votes, and his nearest rival   of BJP got 2,069 votes, as many as 62 voters chose Nota.
 
 In the third such instance, in Ward No.67, Congress candidate Mamta Ashu — wife of MLA (West) Bharat Bhushan Ashu — won the elections and got 3,945 votes, as compared to 433 votes secured by   (SAD) candidate Upinder Jot Kaur Dua, but 83 voters preferred Nota. In the fourth such case, in Ward No.75, there were 55 voters who opted for Nota, even as the winning candidate   of Congress secured 2,706 votes, and her nearest rival — Sukhminder Kaur of SAD — got 1,932 votes.
 
 Social activists favour Nota to open the eyes of politicians. “Nota stood at third position in these wards, even though in most of these wards, there were just two candidates. This is a clear-cut anger against the politicians for not delivering on the promises made to voters at the time of elections. Hope they feel the growing public anger against them, and work honestly to address the problems of city people,” said social activist Kuldeep Singh Khaira. “People simply want to get basic amenities like drinking water, good quality roads, proper drainage, and sewerage system. If politicians are not able to deliver on these, then what for does one elect them?”
 
 He added that many persons known to him opted for Nota, as they were upset with politicians for not delivering on promises made to them. One of the voters in Ward No.64 who opted for Nota said he wanted to show anger at the political class, as they have to grapple with problems of bad roads, improper water supply, and water-logging in the rainy season.
 
 
