Madurai: The number of passengers handled by the Madurai international airport has doubled in a matter of four years. While the airport has been on the growth trajectory ever since its inception, there has been a phenomenal surge from March last year. Officials say that the growth is fuelled by the domestic sector.

 The air traffic data released recently by   (AAI) shows that 12,82,314 passengers were handled by Madurai airport last year, which is more than double the 6,39,906 passengers who flew in 2013. 
 
 As the numbers crossed the one million mark in a calendar year for the first time, the fact that 9,93,912 domestic passengers had used the airport in 2017 stands out. While the feat was achieved by October itself, the airport seems to have narrowly missed achieving the milestone of flying one million domestic passengers alone in a year. 
 
 Airport authorities say that the increase was remarkable from March 2017 and they expected the figures to rise further from next month. “At least five more flights are planned to be operated from this summer. This will take the fliers’ count to newer levels,” said airport director  . 
 
 Sources from the AAI said operators like Indigo, Alliance air, Spice Jet and Jet airways had approached it to operate the flights. The proposed connections were to Chennai, Bengaluru and Mumbai which they expected to start from March-end. 
 
 While the airport is growing by leaps and bounds, aviation enthusiasts have urged the authorities to ensure that the infrastructure meets the growing demand.
 
  “The size of the terminal which was inaugurated in 2012 remains unchanged though the traffic has doubled compared to 2013. There is an urgent need to either expand the existing terminal building or building a separate one,” said Mohammed Mustafa, an aviation enthusiast. In all, 122 domestic services and 25 international flights are operated from the airport a week. 
 
 Most of the flights connect Chennai and are bound for Delhi, Bengaluru and Mumbai.
 
 Passengers opine that there was potential for operating flights to various international destinations in   and the Gulf. However, the international flight operators were hamstrung by the the absence of Madurai airport in the Bilateral Air Services Agreement ( ) in which they had been demanding to be included for several years. 
 
 
