BHUBANESWAR:   Human Rights Commission ( ) has issued a notice to the state government through chief secretary AP Padhi over the closure of several government-run primary and upper primary schools due to inadequate students.

 Taking suo motu cognizance of the case, the NHRC has asked the government to respond to its notice within eight weeks. The rights panel has observed that government schools lacked basic amenities and teachers, and said in a statement, "Opening of more private schools cannot be a solution for the shortcomings faced by the students of government schools. A thorough study of the entire scenario, involving all stakeholders, is the need of the hour. We have to build a healthy educational environment at the primary and upper primary level."
 
 It also observed that without providing proper education at the primary level, the nation could not think of creating a force of well-educated youths. "The issue needs to be addressed in a timely manner by the state as well as the Union government," said the commission.
 
 The NHRC has also issued a notice to the Union ministry of human resource development through its secretary, seeking a response on the matter within eight weeks.
 
 The commission said as many as 828 government primary and upper primary schools had been shut down in the state in 2016-17 for having less than 10 students each. The government wanted to merge these schools with primary schools located within a kilometre, or an upper primary school within three kilometre, the commission said.
 
 "The parents allege that teachers are not attending work regularly. Even anganwadi workers are not working sincerely in spite of several complaints against them. In most schools, the students studying in different classes are sitting in the same room. The schools lack basic amenities," said the NHRC statement.
 
 A senior official of the school and mass education department said the government would look into the matter and respond to the commission's notice within the deadline.
 
