PATNA: Less than a week after four   MLCs led by former state president Ashok Choudhary joined JD (U), party’s Buxar MLA Sanjay Kumar Tiwari alias Munna Tiwari on Monday raised a banner of revolt against legislature party leader Sadanand Singh.

 Accusing Singh of ‘weakening’ the party, Tiwari said he would be visiting Delhi after the assembly session in April to apprise the party leadership of the state of affairs in the state unit.
 
 Tiwari’s outbursts came a day after 17 Congress functionaries owing allegiance to Choudhary joined the JD (U) on Sunday. They included Munger and Muzaffarpur district Congress presidents Saurabh Nidhi and Vidyanand Singh respectively, party’s state unit secretary Ashok Choudhary and state IT cell chief Shehzad Khan.
 
 Incidentally, eight of these 17 functionaries were expelled by Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee’s working president Kaukab Quadri on Saturday night for their alleged anti-party activities.
 
 An “agitated” Tiwari, meanwhile, told reporters outside the state assembly on Monday that CLP leader Singh was mostly serving his own vested interests as was evident from his lobbying for the party ticket to Shambhu Singh Patel for Bhabhua assembly byelection even though Patel was not a long-time Congress worker.
 
 The Buxar MLA went on to allege that personal consideration was behind the selection of Patel even as it ignored the social and political scenario in the constituency. “There was no point fielding an OBC candidate from a Brahmin-dominated constituency,” Tiwari said.
 
 The byelection to Araria Lok Sabha and Jehanabad and Bhabhua assembly seats will be held on March 11. The Congress has fielded its candidate only in Bhabhua where the byelection was necessitated by the death of sitting BJP MLA Anand Bhushan Pandey. The BJP has fielded the late MLA’s wife Rinki Pandey.
 
 Asked if he would also quit the party, Tiwari said, “My loyalty is with the Congress, but I can’t ignore my moral responsibility by looking the other way when all is not hunky-dory in the state unit.” He further said many other Congress MLAs shared his views. 
 
 The Congress has 27 MLAs in the 243-member state assembly.
 
 The infighting in the Congress came to the fore last Wednesday when Choudhary and three other MLCs – Dilip Choudhary, Tanvir Akhtar and Ramchandra Bharti – quit the party. They were formally inducted into the JD (U) by CM Nitish Kumar on Thursday.
 
 Four more former functionaries owing allegiance to Choudhary quit the party on Saturday, followed by 17 more functionaries on Sunday. 
 
 
