Noapara/Kolkata: Former   Congress MLA from Noapara Manju Basu has become a fall guy with the rise of Bhatpara MLA Arjun Singh in the Barrackpore belt following Mukul Roy’s exit. Basu feels she is unwanted in the party.

 “I have been kept away from party activities in Noapara. I don’t know why because the party hasn’t taken any disciplinary action against me. It pains me,” Basu said, days after Trinamool gave the Noapara assembly poll ticket to Garulia Municipality chairman and Arjun’s relative Sunil Singh. 
 
 Basu, however, shied away from responding to speculation in North 24-Parganas political circles that she may contest from Noapara on a BJP ticket. “I can’t respond to conjectures. I leave it to time,” she said on Thursday when a section of BJP leaders expected her to make it to the party’s state office and take its flag from Bengal unit president Dilip Ghosh and BJP’s Mukul Roy.
 
 With Basu staying away, BJP state general secretary Sayantan Basu came up with a routine response. “A person willing to join our party has to come forward and express his wish first. The party can consider the case next,” he said. 
 
 A schoolteacher by profession, Basu joined Trinamool after her husband Bikash Bose died in 2000. Basu made her debut in the Bengal assembly from Noapara during the Left regime in 2001. Since then, her political career has been a roller coaster — losing Noapara elections to CPM in 2006, winning it in 2011 until she lost the polls again in 2016 to Congress’ Madhusudan Ghosh. During all these days, she had a clean slate and distanced herself from Arjun and his men. Basu feels left out in the new scheme of things where Arjun calls the shots from Bhatpara to Barrackpore.
 
 Aware of the development ahead of the Noapara bypoll, CM Mamata Banerjee broke her silence on Roy and trained her guns on him. “Some upstart leaders think that they have no job other than looking for scandals. They think that they can malign us. Telling a lie has become their daily work. These thieves, leaders without character and integrity have no right to criticize us. I am ready to listen to a roadside beggar if he finds fault with our government. But I am not going to pay heed to those who are spreading canards agai-nst us,” she said in Birbhum. 
 
 But the state BJP had a feather in its cap with lawyer Nazia Elahi Khan joining the party on Thursday, five days after Ishrat Jahan, the woman from Howarh’s Pilkhana who moved the Supreme Court against instant triple talaq, joined the party on Saturday. Nazia had helped Ishrat fight the legal battle. “We will take Nazia and Ishrat to deprived Muslim women in the state and tell them how the ruling Trinamool has come in the way of passing the bill banning triple talaq in Rajya Sabha,” a BJP Mahila Morcha leader said.
 
 
