KORAPUT: The former deputy registrar of   (DRCS) of  ,  , appeared before vigilance officials on Saturday to explain his alleged role in irregularities in   in the financial years between 2011 and 2015 that have cost the state exchequer a loss of more than Rs 3.36 crore. 

 An ongoing vigilance probe has unearthed irregularities in at least 48 'large area  ' (LAMPCS) in Koraput, Rayagada, Malkangiri and Nabarangpur districts during the procurement of paddy from various mandis or paddy procurement centres between 2011 and 2015.
 
 The former DRCS was asked why labour charge higher than the government-prescribed amount was paid at the mandis. "We have seized vital documents, including official correspondence, which hint at massive corruption in the department. We want to know why excess money was paid as labour charge at the mandis," said SP (vigilance), Hare Krushna Behera.
 
 Officials said Odisha State Civil Supplies Corporation Limited engaged LAMPCS to procure paddy from farmers at mandis. For this, they were given Rs 5.67 per quintal as handling charge (loading and unloading of paddy from vehicles and weighing it at the mandis). Citing an increase in labour wage, the LAMPCS authorities, in alleged connivance with the DRCS, arbitrarily increased handling charge from Rs 5.67 to Rs 7.67 per quintal in 2011-12 and to Rs 8.67 per quintal in 2012-13. The excess amount was paid from the Rs 31.25 per quintal that LAMPCS got from OSCSCL for procuring paddy at mandis.
 
 "The registrar of cooperative societies had fixed Rs 5.67 as handling charges per quintal of paddy but the DRCS seems to have hiked the rate without the government's approval. The excess amount was illegally paid from the funds LAMPCS received from OSCSCL," the SP said.
 
 Sethy dismissed the allegation against him as baseless and said all government guidelines had been followed during paddy procurement. "I have done no wrong. No irregularities took place during paddy procurement under my watch. I am ready to face an inquiry," he said in Jeypore on Saturday.
 
 
