GURUGRAM: A city court on Sunday granted   to the six   arrested for disrupting a prayer congregation in Sector 43 on April 20. A video of the incident had gone viral, based on which they were arrested on April 25 and sent to jail.

 Civil judge Neetika Bharadwaj, who was the duty magistrate on Sunday, granted bail to the six on technical grounds, as it was found that   hadn’t followed proper procedure before booking the youths in the case. The court also took into consideration the fact that authorities hadn’t given permission for holding prayers on the land, which belongs to the government.
 
 “People were conducting prayers on government land in front of a temple, without permission from local authorities. Besides, police hadn’t followed proper procedure for registering the FIR against the youths. Cops also admitted before court that permission had not been given for conducting prayers. Taking all these facts into consideration, the court granted bail,” said Kulbhushan Bharadwaj, counsel for the accused.
 
 Several Hindutva outfits have come out in support of the youngsters, and are planning to conduct a demonstration in front of the deputy commissioner’s office on Monday. “We had demanded cancellation of the FIR,” said Rajiv Mittal, national coordinator of Akhil Bhartiya Hindu Kranti Dal.
 
 Mittal said after the youths were granted bail, rumours that they had decided to cancel the programme were spread on social media. 
 
 “This is not true. After bail was granted, we conducted a meeting and decided to continue with our scheduled programme on Monday,” Mittal said. “The issues raised by the youths were not wrong. Prayers are conducted without any permission in front of a temple. We won’t allow prayers on the ground on Friday.”
 
 On April 20, a group of youngsters had arrived on bikes while afternoon prayers were being conducted on the field. A video clip showing the men shouting “Jai Shri Ram” and “Radhe Radhe”, and asking the congregation to leave, was circulated widely on social media. By April 25, police had identified the suspects with the help of the video and other CCTV footage, and arrested them. 
 
 
 
