Nagpur: With just four days remaining for Nagpur University’s all-important graduates constituency  , political   and candidates are going all out for wooing the voters. This time, the number of voters has dropped drastically leading to worries of all major political outfits. Low voter turnout would be another major area of concern for the contestants,   officials monitoring the election process said.

 In 2011, about 33,019 registered graduates were enrolled, of which, hardly 11,500 exercised their franchisee resulting in a low turnout of 35%. This time, however, the number of voters has educed by a whopping 15,642 (to 17,377), primarily on account of NU making it mandatory for the graduates to submit photocopies of their degrees.
 
 Apprehending low turnout that may adversely affect their chances, major parties have already joined hands to forge mega alliances. While bitter rivals — Secular Panel and Younger Teachers’ Association — have come together for the first time to form a jumbo alliance with Vidyapeeth Vidyarthi Sangram Parishad (VVSP) and Padvidhar Mahasangh (PM), other group led by Shikshan Manch has joined hands with Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) and Shikshak Bharti, all closely related to BJP and RSS. 
 
 Only Parivartan Panel and Nagpur University Students’ Association ( ) haven’t tied up with anyone. The outcome on February 6 would decide which outfit will have highest number of seats in the Senate. Currently, Dr Vedprakash Mishra’s SP leads the numbers after its spectacular win in first phase of polls, closely followed by Baban Taywade’s YTA.
 
 The parties, contestants and their supporters are adopting every possible methods to reach out to the voters, and social media has come handy for them, unlike last elections. Text and picture messages are floating in bulk via WhatsApp and Facebook.
 
 “We’re not going to be bogged down by any alliance, as our voter base is intact. We’re confident of winning a majority of seats out of the total 10. We’re contesting under the SM’s banner with ABVP and SB,” SM coordinator Kalpana Pande told TOI.
 
 She, however, ruled out depending on the social media stating that they were relying on old ways of personal contact with the voters. “We’re meeting the voters personally. In graduates’ constituency, we had always had upper hand, due to our big strength of voters. It wasn’t the case in the Academic Council and Board of Studies (BOS) polls, as we don’t have voter base in principal, teachers and management representatives’ categories, despite our party being in power,” she said.
 
 PM’s Mahendra   also expressed confidence that the jumbo alliance had consolidated voter base and out candidates would win at least seven out of the 10 seats. “We’re using the social media in a big way to reach out to the voters staying in remote areas. However, we’re not totally relying on it and also making personal contacts and calls. I’ve convinced many of the voters to fill up Form A and B for these polls and they all are aware of that,” he said.
 
 
