CHENNAI: A team from the state school education department which inspected premises of   in Iyyapanthangal blamed the school management for the death of LKG student

 M  . The team has recommended ‘stringent action’ against the school.
 
 A member of the team told TOI that three major violations by the management that led to the death of the child have been cited in the report to the director of matriculation schools.
 
 “Construction work was taken up during school hours contrary to the existing norms. Also, the spot selected to construct the septic tank was not as per rules,” said the official. The team said a caretaker should accompany children during interval hours and it was ‘negligent’ on the part of the management to let children wander alone.
 
 “Though norms allow us to withdraw the school’s recognition temporarily, hundreds of students will be affected. We will take action in order to ensure that such violations don’t recur,” said the member.
 
 But activists and educationists say despite repeated deaths, schools continue to make similar mistakes. Some said there was a growing insensitivity among schools toward such incidents. Prince  , secretary of the State Platform for Common Schooling, said in Kirtheeswaran’s case, the workers cannot be solely blamed. Instead the school should be asked whether it had appointed a supervisor to oversee the work.
 
 “Workers will come, do their job and leave. It is the supervisor on behalf of the school who should be responsible to ensure that the premises are safe for children,” he said. Babu said every time an accident occurred, arrests would be made and schools derecognised. “But another building will come up instead of the school and it doesn’t cause any losses to the owners. Instead, the government should take over the building and ensure that the management pays a price,” he said.
 
 While several guidelines have been in place regarding school safety, they are seldom followed.
 
 Virgil D Sami, who runs Arunodhaya Centre for Street and Working Children, said every time a wall collapse or drowning occurred at a school, only cosmetic actions were taken against the management. “Schools are only worried about money and not infrastructure. Neither the school nor the government is bothered,” she said.
 
 Alleging that schools are increasingly functioning more like business houses, president of the   S   said there was lack of periodic inspection conducted by the government to check the ways in which these institutions were run.
 
 “Surprise inspections must be carried out. The government is lethargic, otherwise the school managements would not be this lax about safety,” he said.
 
 
