KOLKATA: The police probe into the alleged molestation of a Class II student of a reputable English-medium school in south Kolkata will take into account whether the school has played any role in trying to brush the case under the carpet even after knowing about it for more than 24 hours, prosecutor Sourin Ghosal informed an   on Saturday. The police will soon record statements of the parents, teachers and non-teaching staff of the school and will go through whatever CCTV footages are available, said sources at Lalbazar. Accused Soumen Rana, 21, was remanded in police custody till February 12.

 Members of   Commission for Protection of Child Rights, who visited the school on Friday, said the failure of the school to comply with all security norms laid down by the government — and the first response to the complaint — showed how some schools were still refusing to learn from these horrific incidents. The commission’s report, too, is likely to be used by cops.
 
 The accused will also be questioned on whether he is a repeat offender and if he has accomplices. He will also be asked to explain why he held special dance classes and the exact number of times he had tried assaulting the girl.
 
 Sources said Rana was yet to confess. “He has been breaking down frequently and pleading his innocence. So far, he has been avoiding the stronger questions. Now that we have police remand of the accused till Monday, we are hoping to clear up a few issues,” said a source.
 
 A police team may visit the school to ascertain the exact sequence of events, including the places of occurrence, and verify the claims made by the school regarding the CCTV footages. “We will be praying for the recording of the confidential statement of the child and her mother at the earliest. The school has made certain claims about these footages and we will be ascertaining if they are true,” said the source.
 
 Defence lawyers Ankona Pal and Sourav Banik argued the case was a “conspiracy” against Rana and prayed for his bail. “There was a delay of two days between the time the school was informed t and the time the family filed the FIR. As a dance teacher, it was his duty to teach the child. But if that results in such a witch hunt, no male educator will feel safe when teaching a girl. The FIR talks of touching body parts inappropriately, but does not mention the organ. Touching a girl’s hand also qualifies as touching the body,” argued Banik.
 
 
