Chennai: Current   champions   have been making the right noises with their youth development programme. So much so that recently several   top officials paid a visit to their academy. That they have won various age-group titles and produced as many as four players in the India under-17 team for the World Cup last year are proof that their programme is on the right track. While it might be the kids who have achieved all the feats, one cannot overlook the fact that the selection of right personnel to coach the kids has also proved instrumental. This season, too, hasn’t been any different and the appointment of coach   has been critical to the club’s success at the junior level.

 
 
 Under Andrews, the club’s under-15 side completed a hat-trick of national titles back in December and the under-13 team qualified for the nationals, which will be held in Kolkata from April 15. On both occasions, the side have made the nationals’ cut after winning the zonal championship round. Such impressive has been Andrews’ work that Minerva team owner   had made him the manager of senior team, which won the I-League.
 
 But things were not as easy as it sounds for Andrews. At 22, Andrews had very little coaching experience despite clearing AFC C and D licence courses and holding the FA International Intermediate Course certificate. However, he showed dedication and worked hard to guide the young boys.
 
 Andrews, who also has a degree in creating creative players, said that he tried to built up a rapport with the kids and be their friend rather than being a strict instructor. “It wasn’t easy at all initially. It took me a month to understand the pulse of the side. I started keeping track of their diet, how much they are practising, when they are sleeping, etc. I began interacting with them individually and tried to understand their mindset. I started sharing their beliefs and gradually earned their trust. I analysed their mistakes by showing them videos. But I would never criticise them and point out their weaknesses. Instead, I motivated them by showing them their strengths. They would see the efforts I am putting in for them. So in the end, I would become their friend and it helped. They would then listen to my instructions and work accordingly,” Andrews told TOI on Monday.
 
 Andrews, though, had very little time to work magic with the kids. In fact, he was coaching PIFA, Colaba in Mumbai when he got a call from Bajaj to join Minerva in September last year. With the zonal leg of the under-15 competition starting in November, he had to get his act right quickly. “One of the few things I understood quickly while interacting with the kids is that they didn’t care much about theoretical knowledge. They knew the importance of strategy and were aware of playing tactically. But sometimes they would get swayed by emotions and do things of their own on the field. Then I would need to explain the idea behind the moves. But I felt that they were not being able to grasp it and these were all theory to them. So I needed to give demonstrations for them in order to make them understand. I would play along with them and show them how things are done. And it worked,” said Andrews.
 
 Andrews said that he is still learning on the job and helping the senior team prepare for the Super Cup, a knockout tournament featuring ISL and I-League teams. He is also preparing the under-13 team for the nationals and hopes nothing but the best from the youngsters.
 
 
