NEW DELHI: After the resident welfare associations pointed out that the three-day window given to them to submit their objections and suggestions on the changes proposed to provide relief to   from the on-going   drive included non-working days, Delhi   has extended the deadline by two days. DDA was to have met on February 7 to approve the changes, but that meeting has now been postponed. 

 A senior DDA official said that many people claimed they were unable to file their submissions on the changes being proposed for commercial establishments operating from local shopping complexes in residential areas because the three-day window included Saturday and Sunday, when DDA offices remained closed. DDA received over 150 objections and suggestions from the public on the last day of the public hearing. “Of them, 100 were manual submissions and 50 were submitted online,” added the official. 
 
 RWAs felt that the truncated submission window in place of the normal 45 days whenever a regulation change was imminent was unjustified because the changes that DDA sought to effect to help traders avoid sealing were directly related to life for residents in the colonies. They have concerns about the increase proposed in the   (FAR), permitting use of basements and development of parking facilities, claiming these actions would lead to a mess in residential areas. The associations wanted DDA to give them enough time to consider the wide-ranging implications of the proposed changes.
 
 The RWAs also complained that the notice published by DDA had made no mention of an e-mail ID or whether the three-day window would include Saturday and Sunday.
 
 Ashutosh Dikshit, CEO of United Residents Joint Action, the apex body of RWAs, said that they wanted the deadline extended by at least a week. “We couldn’t submit our representations due to the small window. We need time to gain an understanding of the proposed changes and discuss them among various associations before submitting our objections and suggestions regarding the regulation changes,” said Dikshit. 
 
 East Delhi Residents Joint Front president BS Vohra said that though they have mailed their body’s response to DDA, it was done in a hurry. “We didn’t have time to go through the entire set of documents and only responded to what we could see in their advertisement. We objected to the parking clause,” said Vohra. The changes, he argued, would expose residents to commercial activities, traffic jams and parking hassles.
 
 “Giving three days to the public to file their objections or suggestions was not justified when we needed to understand minutely the impact of the proposed changes on residential colonies as well as background of the amendment before submitting our memorandums,” echoed  , general secretary Confederation of NCR RWAs. “DDA must consult RWAs or arrange a meeting where we can put across our opinions and points.”
 
 Rajiv Kakria, member of GK I RWA, was similarly baffled. “What is the logic behind a public notice issued on Saturday giving the public just three days to study complex documents and post suggestions?” he said. “I have submitted the preliminary suggestions of our association to DDA, but there is a need for a proper interaction to explain our concerns.” 
 
 While the government is talking about a “smart city” on one hand, on the other the Union urban development ministry and DDA were themselves involved in “promoting the breaking of rules” in a non-smart way, remarked Rejimon CK, president of Dwarka Forum, the federation of societies in the area.
 
 “There is no relation of the proposed changes to the ground reality,” Rejimon claimed. “While the penalty for non-payment of conversion charges has been reduced from 10 times to two times, many other things remain the same, including the time given to pay the penalties. There are no provisions either for penalising repeat violations after issuance of notice.” He added there had to be a systematic approach to this with an efficient complaint-handling process that the public could access easily and a system to issue notices without human interface regarding all commercial buildings.
 
 
