BENGALURU: A government land   team led by IAS officer   was attacked by a gang during a survey of a parcel of land in   near  , around Friday noon. 

 Two survey department officials - supervisor   and his assistant Narayan - sustained injuries when the gang threw stones and bottles at them. Moudgil, survey settlement and land records commissioner, was unhurt in the incident.
 
  Sensing trouble when the youths confronted them,   called the Indiranagar police, who rushed to the spot. Police arrested Pavan, Ranjith and Manoj, cousins and residents of New Thippasandra. 
 
 "We acted as soon as we got information that a gang was attacking a survey party," Ajay Hilori, DCP (east division), said. "We've registered a case based on a complaint lodged by Moudgil. The three accused were produced before a court, which remanded them in judicial custody." Moudgil told police a court ordered his office to conduct a survey of the land (survey No. 142/2) to ascertain if it fell under gram thana jurisdiction. The court was hearing a civil dispute. 
 
 
 
 
 The gang obstructed us even after I showed the court order to them,” Moudgil said in his complaint. “The gang threatened us with dire consequences. Later, they assaulted our staff and damaged the survey equipment.”
 
 Moudgil told TOI his team could not complete the survey due to the incident and will now complete it under police protection. “We’ve captured the incident on camera and will submit footage to the court,” Moudgil said.
 
 Police said they have booked a case against the accused persons under IPC section 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty).
 
 According to sources, the Bangalore Development Authority had acquired 1 acre and 12 guntas some time ago. However, relatives of the three cousins arrested on Friday had moved court, claiming it fell under the jurisdiction of gram thana. The court then ordered a survey to ascertain whether the disputed plot was under gram thana.
 
 
 
