CHENNAI: Two men from the city died and four were injured in road accidents involving government buses on Sunday when the strike called by transport workers’ unions entered a fourth day.

 State transport minister M R Vijayabhaskar urged employees to return to work even as the government and trade unions that called the strike prepared for a key hearing in the Madras high court on Monday.
 
 While one casualty was reported near Santhome Church in Chennai, the other accident took place in Vriddhachalam, Cuddalore district, where the victim’s family was on a holiday. Police said David Seyon Kumar, 37, a resident of Kilpauk, had travelled to Cuddalore with his family to attend a function. He was travelling with his brotherin-law Samuvel, 35, and his seven-year-old daughter Sharon on a two-wheeler and when their vehicle reached the Vriddhachalam bus stand a government town bus hit him from behind.
 
 “Losing control of the bus, the driver ran over David’ s motorcycle and hit another government bus in front,” a police officer said. “If not for the other bus, the driver would have killed 10 others at an eatery near the bus stand.”
 
 The driver, J Ezhumalai, 35, from Erumanur of the same district usually drives tractors on agricultural fields and was unable to control the ill-maintained bus at the sharp curve ahead of the entrance of the bus stand,” said a transport department official.   has been remanded and an FIR lodged, said police.
 
 Police said all three accident victims were rushed to the local government hospital where David was declared brought dead. Others were referred to Villupuram Government Hospital and later to   in Chennai. Samuvel sustained a head injury but was recovering, said hospital sources.
 
 Soon after the accident, commuters and other union members protested against deployment of inexperienced drivers to operate government buses. Regional transport officer Santhoshini Chandra arrived at the spot as protestors had started to block buses operated by temporary staff. A dozen protestors were detained.
 
 In the accident near Santhome, an MTC bus knocked down an 18-year-old biker around 3 pm. The victim, identified as Ajith Kumar R from Dummil Kuppam, was crossing the road when the accident happened, said a traffic investigation officer.
 
 Police said the bus was plying between Broadway bus terminus and   and its driver sped away with the vehicle after hitting the biker. Police said there were no witnesses but have procured security camera footage from nearby to identify the vehicle and the driver.
 
 The Mylapore traffic investigation police have filed a hit-and-run case and has launched a hunt for the driver of the bus. Kumar’s body has been sent to   Government   for autopsy.
 
 
