SURAT: Citizens of Diamond City will have to keep a tab on their water usage this summer as the   (SMC) will not be able to supply additional water even if the demand rises. Currently   supplies 1,200 MLD (million litre per day) water to the city with a population of nearly 50 lakh.

 Surat irrigation circle has intimated the city administration of lower water supply from  , which it the major source of water for the city, before monsoon season. 
 
 Superintending engineer, Surat irrigation circle, S Mahakal talking to TOI said, “We have sent these letters to all concerned, including SMC, nagarpalikas, industrial associations and others. We have asked all to use water judiciously as there is no additional water to spare this year. We have to last till new water arrives in monsoon. Ukai has only about 3,000 million cubic metre (MCM) of water which can last till May end.” 
 
 At present, SMC gets nearly 275 million gallons per day (MGD) of water, but it has demanded 300 MGD, which the irrigation department said was not possible unless the state government approves it.
 
 SMC supplies more than 140 litre per capita per day (LPCD) of water, which is above the norm of 135 LPCD. 
 
 “Till now, we have not faced any water shortage and so people are not used to saving water. But now they will have to learn and stop wasting water,” a senior SMC official said. 
 
 If properly metered and supplied and used, 135 LPCD water is sufficient for any individual for a day. However, spending huge amount on watering lawns, washing cars and other such activities, one is wasting a lot of it.
 
 Additional city engineer, SMC,   said, “We appeal to those who get unmetered water to use it judiciously so that we don’t have to apply strict measures like water cut and other things in summer before rains arrive in monsoon.” 
 
 SMC officials said right now they would try and propagate idea of judicious use of water, but can resort to 10-20 per cent cut if situation demands in the coming months.
 
 
