CHANDIGARH: Tussle over putting up a samosa vend in the colony with Ujala's father had provoked the accused to kill the 6-year-old girl at   on Sunday afternoon. According to the police, the accused is also known as a trouble maker in the area and used to often fight his neighbours over petty issues. 

 Station house officer (SHO) of Industrial Area police station Z P Khan said that accused Kamlesh and father of the deceased   had started a samosa vend in the area around two months ago. Both had fought over installing their vends on a particular area. However, the matter was sorted out and both did not put up the vend. Police added that the deceased's father had also stated that he had a minor altercation with the accused, but he never thought Kamlesh would take revenge by killing his daughter over such a trivial matter.
 
 The SHO told that Manu's wife and other neighbours were also not comfortable with Kamlesh around as he used to loose temper quite often. According to the cops, Kamlesh had been pretending to be insane by saying that he was under by some evil spell at the time of murdering the girl. He would be produced in the court after his two-day police remand expired on Wednesday. However, the SHO added that the accused had been changing his statements and showed no signs of guilt while being in the police lock up. 
 
 Kamlesh had slit the throat of Ujala in full public view on Sunday when she was playing near his house. According to ye witnesses, Kamlesh had pinned her under his legs, pulled her hair back and slit her throat in full public view at Sanjay Colony in Industrial Area, Phase-I. 
 
 He was caught by the neighbours, who turned him over to the police after thrashing him. Ujala was brought dead to Sector-32   and Hospital (GMCH).
 
 "The girl met a gruesome end. He killed her like he was sacrificing an animal," said an eyewitness. The accused, who hails from Buxar in  , lived alone as his wife and two daughters were at his native place. He worked in a printing factory in   and lived five houses away from Ujala's family.
 
 
