RAJKOT: A scam of selling off land using forged documents and misusing power of attorney has come into light in   town of Gir   district. 

 Nearly 14 plots, which were valued at Rs 26 lakh around 25 years ago, were sold using forged documents. Police strongly suspect the involvement of district revenue officers and officials said that this could be just the tip of the iceberg. At present market rates, the plots together are valued around Rs 45 lakh. A complaint in this regard was registered with Veraval town police station by the owners of these 14 plots. They said have all the documents but their names are not shown in revenue records. The scam came to light when one of the original plot owners came to claim his land. 
 
 The prime accused in the scam is one Abddul  , history-sheeter, has allegedly sold all these plots and is currently absconding.
 
 FIR staes that land of these plots were converted into non agriculture in 1996 and thereafter, these plots were sold using fake power of attorney. In subsequent years, the documents were registered for these plots with revenue department. The price of these plots appreciated due to works like development of beach and the process of giving municipal corporation status to   municipality started. These plots were sold in the beginning of year 2015 using fake power of attorney, forged notary and forged documents which never registered with the revenue department. Owners recently got to know that the plots they purchased for investment are not registered in their names and they have been cheated. 
 
 There is no revenue record (7/12) entry in their name with the revenue department. Police suspect that some revenue officers are also involved in this scam as the scam couldn’t have been engineered without their connivance.
 
 Sanjay Kharat, in-charge superintendent of police,   district told TOI: “Abdul has criminal history and we suspect that this is just a tip of iceberg. He may have committed a bigger scam. Therefore many people don’t know about their land records. We are going to issue a notice in a newspaper and ask people to check their revenue records. If they find anything suspicious, they must inform police.” 
 
 There are many plots in Veraval and Somnath which are purchased for investment purpose. Police have registered the offence under sections of IPC 406 (punishment for criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating and dishonesty including delivery of property), 465 (punishment for forgery) and 467 (forgery of valuable security).
 
 
