PATNA: The   to the much-awaited Patna   is expected by July end. The state government is to hand over the detailed project report (DPR) to the Union urban development ministry by June 15 for its approval, state urban development and housing minister Suresh Kumar Sharma told this newspaper on Friday.

 He said a north-south corridor from Patna Junction to proposed interstate bus terminal (ISBT) at   through NIT-Patna and Rajendra Nagar Terminal is being given priority. 
 
 A meeting is also slated between senior UDHD and ministry of housing and urban affairs officials in New Delhi on May 21. State UDHD principal secretary   said the department would present the report on comprehensive mobility plan ( ) and alternative analysis for metro rail project, which has been prepared by NIT-Patna.
 
 “Rail India Technical and Economic Services (RITES) is preparing the DPR on the basis of CMP and alternative analysis and the Centre’s new guidelines,”   said.
 
 “It is expected that work on the project will start in this financial year itself. The 6km-long north-south corridor in the first phase will start functioning by the end of 2019,” the minister said.
 
 “The north-south corridor will mostly run on an elevated stretch while a part of it will be made underground. As running the metro line underground escalates the project cost, it is thought wise to run major parts of the metro corridor on elevated structure. In the second phase, the work will begin on east-west corridor from   to Saguna Mor via Bailey Road and Patna Junction, covering a distance of 14.5km,” Sharma said.
 
 Sanjeev Sinha, professor of civil engineering and dean (planning and development) at NIT-P said, “We submitted the CMP and alternative analysis on April 18. It was prepared on the assessment of traffic load on various routes, including Kankarbagh, Bailey Road, Boring Canal Road Ashok Rajpath, Rajendra Nagar, Old and New Bypass roads and Mithapur. A few other areas are likely to be proposed for setting up of four metro rail corridors. The traffic on these potential routes is likely to increase manifold by 2041. We are also conducting a micro-level survey on other routes which cater to less than 15,000 passengers per day,” said Sinha, adding it would take minimum 4-5 years to complete the project. The estimated cost of the project is Rs17,000 crore, he said.
 
 
