Jaipur: The special operations group ( ) of the Rajasthan police busted a post-mortem racket and arrested six persons, including a lawyer, doctor and a cop, who make fake post-mortem reports of people who are alive and claim accident insurance.

 Police arrested  , a lawyer from Dausa; Rajesh Kumar, a banker based in New Delhi;  , insurance surveyor based in New Delhi; Dr Satish Khandelwal, government doctor in Dausa; Yash Chauhan, a dealer; and Ramesh Chand, an assistant sub-inspector with Dausa police.
 
 According to DIG Sanjay Shrotriya, the gang members have so far received insurance claim of Rs 12 lakh from a private insurance company and Rs 2 lakh each from Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Suraksha Yojna (PMJSY) and  , based on forged post-mortem and death certificates.
 
 “The gang purchased insurance policies from different companies on behalf of an auto-driver,  . They faked his death in a road accident in Dausa and forged a post-mortem report and a death certificate with the help of Dr Satish Khandelwal and ASI Ramesh Chand,” Shrotriya said, adding that Singh was alive and, currently, on the run.
 
 The matter came to light when an insurance inspector from another insurance company came to Kotwali police station in Dausa to verify the post-mortem report of Jitendra Singh. An assistant-sub inspector who was present at the police station was stunned when he found his name and signature on the post-mortem report.
 
 “The policeman was shocked. So, he checked past records and found that no accident has been reported in the name of Jitendra Singh on that particular day. The policeman alerted higher officials about the incident and the investigation was handed over to the SOG,” Shrotirya added.
 
 The SOG found that Jitendra Singh was alive and living in Delhi with his wife.
 
 SOG sleuths also found contradictions in the post-mortem report. “Dr Satish wrote that Jitendra Singh’s body was kept in a mortuary. However, the post-mortem was conducted at the accident site itself, which is very rare and can be done only with the persmission of collector,” Shrotirya said.
 
 The gang members divided the money among themselves and paid Rs 4 lakh to Jitendra Singh. The SOG unit has also found the gang’s involvement in an similar incident in Ramgarh area of Dausa where the natural death of a 50-year-old person was turned into an accidental death and insurance claimed.
 
 “The brother of the deceased collided with the gang to claim the insurance. His brother had died due to cancer, but Dr Satish made a fake post-mortem report and ASI Ramesh Chand prepared a fraudulent police application which showed death as a result of road accident,” said an official.
 
 
