KOCHI: The corporation authorities have issued an order asking regional sports centre ( ) to pull down five- storeyed complex constructed without the local body’s permission. The order issued by assistant executive engineer of Kochi corporation on December 29, 2017 states that the building doesn’t have structural stability and hence the use of the building should be avoided so as to ensure that no accidents occur.

 On the basis of a complaint filed by  , building inspector of Kochi corporation conducted a site visit. The building inspector gave his report on December 28, 2017 stating that the building doesn’t have structural stability. As per the order, constructions in survey number 390/1,390/2,390/3, 391 and 378 should be pulled down as it lacked structural stability as well as permit from the local body. So, the entire constructions in the stadium will have to be demolished. But K T   the complainant said that the order is to pull down the rooms constructed around the stadium and Sky Court, an elevated shuttle court alone. “These rooms had been constructed without permission. Recently, the RSC authorities also constructed a Sky Court without conducting any studies,” Cheshire said. “The Sky Court with a built up area of 10,000 sq ft attached to   weakened the entire structure. It has been constructed without conducting any studies,” he said.
 
 According to RSC authorities, Kochi corporation authorities issued the order in haste without hearing the RSC officials and studying the issue properly. “In 1988 when the construction of the   stadium was started, the state government issued order exempting it from the ambit of Kerala Municipal Building Rules (KMBR). Though the construction of the structure was completed in 1993, we didn’t secure occupancy certificate from Kochi corporation,”  , secretary, RSC said. “In 2014, corporation issued notice to seeking a building tax of Rs 4.17 crore. We approached the state government then seeking exemption from paying the amount. The government issued order allowing us to regularise the construction after paying Rs 1.5 crore to Kochi corporation as compounding fee. Later, it had been slashed to 1 crore. In July 2016, we paid Rs 25 lakh and the remaining amount was paid in January 2017. How can the corporation ask us to demolish the structure even after paying Rs one crore?” Nawaz asked.
 
 According to the corporation officials, the notice has been served to RSC after conducting proper inspections. “During inspections, it was found that the structure lacks stability. Moreover, it has been constructed without permission,” an official with Kochi corporation said. “It is a preliminary step. They can apply for regularizing the building. The RSC authorities haven’t given such an application so far. They also haven’t produced any documents to support their claim that they paid the compounding fee,” the official said.
 
 The RSC executive council which met on January 11 has decided to move the court challenging the local body’s order.
 
 
 
