PANAJI: Pawan Mathur, visiting from Delhi had to catch an 8pm flight on Sunday from Goa airport but left the hotel at 2.30pm by   fearing delays.

 “We didn’t think that the KTCL airport bus would be punctual since Goa’s   system is very erratic,” he said. It was only after arriving at the   bus terminus that he and his friend realized that buses were moving smoothly.
 
 “Why did the government have to wait until some   strike to provide such a service? They are proving their efficiency now, so why can’t they continue with it?” said Mathur. When taxi operators went on a state-wide strike on Friday, the state appeared paralyzed since many tourists were left stranded looking for alternative means of transport.
 
 
  
 
 Kadamba (KTCL) bus service stepped in and ran continuously for over 12 hours a day over the course of the strike to ensure that tourists had transport to and from the airport and train stations. They began services at 7am and operated buses to the airport till 2am on Friday and Saturday to ensure visitors were not inconvenienced. Over 70 buses were deployed from various locations in the state to ferry passengers to the airport and railway stations, and vice versa.
 
 While tourists grumbled about leaving for the airport and railway stations hours in advance, they were relieved that the trip they were paying for was eight to 10 times cheaper than the price they paid while arriving by taxi. “I arrived in Goa prior to the strike and paid Rs 1,200 for a taxi from the airport to Calangute. This was after bargaining. While leaving on Sunday, I ended up paying less than Rs 200 from Calangute to Panaji in a local bus and Panaji to the airport in the airport shuttle. This should be reason enough for the Goa government to continue with this special service,” said   Richa Mishra.
 
 KTCL which started the airport special bus only to shut it down on two previous occasions, besides running the initiative into a loss, turned out to be a saviour shuttle for people. “It is convenient for people to travel by bus. But for those carrying a lot of luggage from railway stations, it becomes a hassle to change two to three buses to get to a hotel. There should be a direct bus from the railway stations to various cities in Goa instead of just the major cities. We have a similar bus system in Mumbai and it has been a successful model all these years,” said tourist Yukhuda Fanaswala.
 
 
  
 
 KTCL chairman Carlos Almeida, who remained stationed at the airport throughout the strike to ensure buses plied on schedule, said, “We have to break the taxi monopoly and give people the choice which transport service they wish to choose. We will be increasing the number of trips of our existing airport shuttle to four trips and have also requested airport authorities to put signage everywhere informing flyers about this service.”
 
 Asked if he would also add a fleet for railway services, he said, “The government will have to take a decision about adding a KTCL shuttle for railway stations on a daily basis. The request has to also come from the people,” he said.
 
 “Taxis in Goa are costly. Their only available airport bus just runs twice a day but given the demand, they should have more trips. The Rs 100-journey is more than worth it for a 30km ride from Panaji to the airport or Rs 20 to the railway station for that matter,” said Vivek Chandan from Pune.
 
 
 
