Mumbai doctors believe in practising what they preach. If they recommend a 40-minute run or walk for you, they do it themselves, too. To celebrate   today, Bombay Times got doctors — pediatricians, nephrologists, cardiologists, clinical psychologists and health specialists — together for a morning jog, where they spoke about how Mumbaikars can stay fit and healthy, despite their sedentary jobs and hectic schedules.

 
 
 For Dr  , consultant nephrologist, restricting ‘SOS’ is a must to lead a life that is healthy and disease-free. He explains, “SOS stands for sugar, oil and salt; restricting these will prevent diseases.” Kidney specialist Dr Bhavesh Vora agrees and feels that being health-conscious right from a young age has a lot of benefits. He emphasises, “We have to start early. Youngsters should keep a watch on their daily diet.”
 
 
 
 Mumbai, as a city of dichotomies, has its fair share of not just fun, but also stress. The doctors suggest that one should do 30 minutes of moderate exercise at least six days a week.
 Dr  , a dermatologist, says, “Fitness should be mandatory. Exercising 30-40 minutes a day is not just good for your body, but also for your skin and mind. It releases positive endorphins; these are hormones that make your skin smile, make your body feel good and keep your mind healthy.” Dr  , consultant dermatologist, adds, “One should incorporate some sort of activity in their day-to-day life. It could be anything — a walk, a jog, swimming, gymming, a sport or even a dance class. An active lifestyle contributes towards good health.” Dr Soma Sarkar, dermatologist, adds, “Some people prefer walking and that’s good enough. I love walking, too, and that keeps me fit.” 
 
 
 
 Pediatricians in Mumbai are concerned about the rise in obesity among children. Research has proved that most diseases start during childhood. Senior consultant pediatrician Dr   says, “I see too many kids suffering from obesity and I want to tell parents to wake up. Childhood obesity invites adult diseases like thyroid, hypertension, heart diseases and blood pressure. Parents can prevent this by inculcating good lifestyle habits. Make sure your child/teenager indulges in a lot of physical activities. Keep their weight in check.” They also feel that parents often tend to forget that they are the real role models for their kids. Dr  , pediatrician, shares, “If parents have a sedentary lifestyle and do not have wholesome meals, then their kids are going to follow the same.”
 
 
 
 “India is facing an onslaught of non-communicable diseases like diabetes, high blood pressure, heart diseases and kidney failure, but this can be managed if we make some change in our lifestyle,” says nephrologist Dr  . He suggests having wholesome food, reducing intake of fried and salty items and high calorie foods and quitting smoking and alcohol. Seven to eight hours of sleep is necessary. Dr Vijay D’Silva, an intensivist, who specialises in cardiovascular critical care, says, “Not just a balanced diet and daily exercise, but optimum sleep is also of primary importance. One should sleep for at least seven hours every night. Apart from this, you must avoid smoking and all kinds of tobacco products if you want to live a long and healthy life.”
 
 
 
 Clinical psychologist   says, “Just like the way we take care of our physical health, it is extremely important to take care of our mental health as well. If you are suffering from any kind of emotional disturbances, anxiety or depression, do not hesitate to reach out to a mental health professional. Do not think of it as a social stigma. Remember, only when your mind functions properly, everything else can fall into place.”
 
 
 
 This is serious — the keep calm memes that you have come across often, may actually have some real advice to give you. Doctors state that not getting agitated and not losing your cool over life’s mundane happenings can go a long way in keeping you healthy. “I make sure I don’t sweat the little things,” states Dr Vijay D’Silva.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 Their demanding profession has not taken a toll on them. In fact, these senior doctors can give their younger counterparts a run for their money, when it comes to staying fit. The docs reveal their fitness secrets to BT…
 
 
 
 — Dr Bhupendra Gandhi, 76
 
 
 
 — Dr Umesh Khanna, 62
 
 
 
 — Dr Vijay D’Silva, 58
 
 
 
 — Dr Bhavesh Vora, 51
 
 
 
 
