JODHPUR: While the fans of   Khan rejoiced on Saturday, the   community was predictably angry at the decision of the sessions court to grant bail to the film star on Saturday.

 Terming the decision unfortunate and a blow to their long legal battle to bring justice for the blackbucks that were killed way back in October 1998, the community vowed to take the fight to the next step and ensure that Salman and five others acquitted in the case, including Saif Ali Khan, Sonali Bendre, Neelam and Tabu, are brought to justice.
 
 “It’s a very sad day for us as the court has granted bail barely two days after Salman was convicted and sentenced to five years for killing two blackbucks,” said Ram Niwas Dhori of Bishnoi Tiger Force.
 
 Two days before the community, sworn to protect the environment and wildlife, had celebrated when the actor was convicted by the trial court. 
 
 “Like in other cases he was acquitted, we will file a petition in the high court challenging his bail,” said   of the Bishnoi Tiger Force.
 
 Some of them, however, accused the government for paving the way to grant bail to Salman and claimed that the judiciary was under pressure from the government.
 
 Pukhraj Khedi of the   alleged that he has been granted bail on account of the pressure from the government.
 
  of the Bishnoi Vanyajeev Evam Paryavaran Sansthan said that the organization along with others would study the bail order, consult legal experts and challenge it in the upper court.
 
 “We will not only challenge Salman’s bail by the sessions court but also appeal against the acquittal of the five co-accused, including four other film actors,” he said.
 
 Members of the Bishnoi community associated with various organizations were present in the court right from the morning, keeping a tab on the bail arguments and waiting for the order to be pronounced by the court.
 
 The moment the order was pronounced, the members were predictably gloomy and said all the hard work of 20 long years by the prosecution, witnesses from both their community and the forest department had gone to waste.
 
 
