Bathinda/Ferozepur: Anganwari workers, who have been protesting in Bathinda for over a month for their demands, observed ‘black day’ on the occasion of the International Women’s Day. Hundreds of anganwari workers and helpers scaled the wall of the Bathinda senior superintendent of police (SSP) office and held a protest at the entrance of the deputy commissioner’s office.

 Anganwari workers in Punjab are protesting since January 29, for higher emoluments on the pattern of Delhi and seeking return of children aged 3 to 6 to the anganwari centres. There are 27,000 anganwari centres in Punjab where 54,000 workers and helpers are working. A worker gets Rs 5,600 per month and helpers Rs 2,800 per month as wages. They are demanding Rs 10,000 and Rs 5,000 per month respectively as given by Delhi government.
 
 Holding black flags, anganwari workers and helpers reached the gate of the SSP’s office to hold a protest at the nearby DC office. As the employees shut the iron gate, the workers had heated exchanges with them and scaled the gate. The forcibly reached the gate of DC’s office and protested for nearly an hour.
 
 Anganwari workers union president Hargobinder Kaur said, “We have not got the wages for the last six months and are forced to pay rent of the anganwari centres from own sources. We are holding protest for the last 38 days for giving us the rent and to raise the wages. We also want the children to be return to anganwari centres but nobody is paying.”
 
 Meanwhile, on the call given by the All India Anganwari Employee Union, anganwari helpers and workers observed International Women Day as ‘black day’ in Ferozepur on Thursday. Several anganwari workers, in support of their long-pending demands, protested against the Congress government in the state by wearing black dupattas and black flags.
 
 They also burnt effigies of former Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Punjab chief minister Amrinder Singh. Leader of anganwari workers in Ferozepur, Jaspal Kaur, said their union had been protesting throughout Punjab but the government was indifferent.
 
 
