NAGPUR: Taking cognizance of the inordinate delay in sanctioning building plans by the civic bodies, the state government introduced a new system in August 22 last year.

 As per the system, architects, surveyors and engineers were given powers of self-sanction building plans up to 200 sqm. But seven months on, the   ( ) have not received even a single case.
 
 Pramod Gawande, NMC assistant director of town planning, told TOI that a meeting will be organized with architects, surveyors and engineers to encourage them for using their powers.
 
 The government issued a notification on August 22 introducing the self-sanction building plan system as part of online building plan management system (BPMS).
 
 Earlier, the owners/developers through their own or architects/surveyors/engineers were supposed to submit an application seeking building plan sanction/permit, plinth level certificate and occupancy certificate with the NMC. All had to make rounds of NMC town planning department for getting sanction.
 
 Under the new system, the architects registered with Council of Architecture, licensed surveyors and engineers registered with NMC were given powers to scrutinize and grant provisional sanction for beginning construction of building up to 200 sqms. They were also given powers to sanction building plan of G+1 floor of any user, subject to city’s development control regulations (DCR).
 
 They were supposed to submit an application in a specific format along with relevant documents with the NMC. The officials concerned of NMC’s town planning department have to issue a demand note of charges within 10 days of receiving the application. Then, they can issue provisional sanction in form of self-certification. They were even given powers to issue occupancy certificate.
 
 Under the new system, owners of individual buildings were supposed to benefit as most of the residential plots are less than 200 sqm.
 
 Architect   said there were various types of implications, so architects were not ready to adopt the new system.
 
 “NMC is an authority, so it can verify ownership of land, monitor construction and initiate action in case of any deviation. We have our own limitations. Besides, we cannot go to sites and monitor each and every building,” he said.
 
 “We also do not have powers to take action or compel the applicants to comply with the norms. NMC still have powers to stop construction citing any reason. In case of any issues, our credibility and authorization will be at risk,” he added.
 
 
