PATNA: An NIA (National Investigation Agency) court in   on Friday awarded life imprisonment to all the five convicts in the   serial blasts case. 

 The convicts are Umer Siddiqui (39),   (25), Imtiyaz Ansari alias Alam (35), Haider Ali (30) and Mujibullah Ansari (28). NIA court judge Manoj Kumar Sinha also imposed a fine of Rs 40,000 each on them under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967.
 
 The court also awarded three-year imprisonment to them under Section 153A (promoting enmity between religious groups) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC. Besides, Imtiyaz, Haider and Mujibullah were sentenced to 10-year imprisonment and fined Rs 10,000 each under Sections 120B (criminal conspiracy) and 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC. Haider was also awarded 14-year imprisonment and fined Rs 10,000 under Section 458 of the IPC (trespassing into a temple). 
 
 “The court ordered the convicts to serve additional six-month imprisonment on their failure to pay the fine,” special NIA public prosecutor   told TOI, adding all the sentences would run concurrently.
 
 The blasts took place on and around the Mahabodhi Temple premises on July 7, 2013 morning. Of the 13 IEDs planted in the area, ten had exploded. Five people, including two Buddhist monks, were injured in the blasts.
 
 The accused in the case numbered seven, including a minor who was last year convicted and awarded three-year imprisonment. One accused Tariq Ansari died while activating a bomb inside a toilet at Patna railway station on October 27, 2013 — the day serial blasts took place during a rally addressed by the then Gujarat CM Narendra Modi at Gandhi Maidan in Patna. The five convicts of   case are also accused in the Patna blasts case.
 
 According to the NIA chargesheet, Jamat al-Tawhid wal-Qisas, Indian wing of global terror organisation Al-Qaeda, had claimed responsibility for the Bodh Gaya blasts through an eight-page letter to the Press Information Bureau office in Patna. All the convicts were activists of outlawed Students Islamic Movement of India and had carried out the explosions to avenge alleged atrocities on Rohingyas in Myanmar. 
 
 
