CHANDIGARH: Within days of his son getting bail in the infamous Varnika Kundu stalking case, BJP's state president for Haryana Subhash Barala has found himself embroiled in a fresh controversy. 

 The Punjab and Haryana high court has issued him notice on allegations that he interfered with the transfer of a state roadways inspector in   earlier this week.
 
 Ishwar Singh Boora, 57, was transferred   in a week by the general manager (GM), Fatehabad depot of Haryana Roadways and shifted to Delhi, allegedly on Barala's instance.   moved the court with a petition that included a recorded conversation with his   who has stated that Barala, who is the Tohana  , is behind the transfers.
 
 Taking strong exception of the allegations, the court has not only stayed the transfer orders but also asked chief minister   and the chief secretary to look into the case. While staying Boora's transfer, the court said that the GM and the MLA have been charge with "grave malafides" in the petition and also of unconstitutional interference in the performance of a public servant.
 
 While asking the state government to file a reply to the petition, Justice Rajeev Narain Raina also asked assistant advocate general ( ) Shruti Jain Goyal "to bring this petition to the notice of the chief minister Haryana and of the state Chief Secretary".
 
 
 
 
 The court also issued notice to Haryana Roadways GM at Fatehabad, Khubi Ram Kaushal and Barala, asking them to file replies by February 14.
 
 Boora has alleged in his petition that Kaushal had given a contract to Kulwant Singh Arora on January 8 for cleaning the depot and providing a sweeper and guard. The contract required five people to work at the depot but only two worked on a regular basis while three were absent, Boora has alleged. Since he had charge of the station supervisor for Tohana sub depot, he started marking the missing employees absent.
 
 According to the petition, the contractor’s assistant asked Boora to have a word with Jaideep Barala, nephew of the Tohana MLA because the MLA had given names of the absent employees to the contractor. Boora claims he did not talk to anybody and explained the issue to his GM.
 
 “To my surprise, the GM transferred me on January 16 to bus flying squad Tohana. On January 18, I was again transferred and posted as booking branch in charge at Tohana. However, on January 19, I was again shifted from Fatehabad to ISBT Delhi,” petitioner has stated before the court.
 
 Boora then called up Kaushal to ask why he had been sent to Delhi. Kaushal indicated that it was on the insistence of Barala and advised him to speak to the Tohana MLA. Boora recorded this conversation and played it before the court during the hearing on Wednesday. Boora’s counsel, Sunil Nehra, submitted that the petitioner was not aggrieved about the first two transfers but posting him to Delhi was wrong as no employee from Fatehabad was ever transferred in such a manner. Nehra asked the court to set aside the transfers in view of the fact that the Boora was set to retire on October 31and also because the transfer had been ordered by Barala.
 
 
 
