CHANDIGARH: The Congress government plans to pump in Rs 495 crore to revive the bus rapid transit system (BRTS) for Amritsar that was launched with much fanfare by the previous SAD-BJP regime in December 2016. The 600-crore project had failed to fructify as envisioned and couldn’t provide a viable solution to the maddening traffic in the city.

 As per the new proposal, the 31 kilometers of BRT corridors will have buses plying on the three key corridors diverging from the central core, connecting   on the western side and Verka and Duburji areas in the east of the city. The BRTS will have a total fleet of 93 buses.
 
 Local bodies minister Navjot Singh Sidhu said the BRTS launched by the previous government was a “premature baby.” “Only a few buses were run and the competition from autos, which scored over the BRTS with lesser waiting time and cheaper travel, was not factored in. Now, we have decided to introduce e-vehicles by having a dialogue with the auto operators in the city so that there is no opposition from them. The city bus service for Amritsar will also be strengthened,” said Sidhu.
 
 “To revive the project, 71 buses have already been delivered and will start plying soon. It will provide a big relief to the daily commuters and tourists. The city bus service is already functional in Ludhiana and Bathinda,” he added.
 
 The project was not made fully operation despite having basic features such as global positioning system and the CCTV cameras. “The decision of commuters to switch from their private vehicle or prefer an auto or rickshaw depends on how cost effective the bus travel is. Besides, the buses under the BRTS arrive after at least half an hour and the government cannot expect commuters to wait for so long,” said Dr  , a private practitioner in Amritsar.
 
 The decision to introduce the BRTS was taken by   government at a meeting on September 19, 2013. As per the initial plan, the BRTS was to have 55 AC buses covering a 30-km route from India Gate (Attari road) to the railway station, Queen’s Road, Crystal Chowk, Company Gardens, SSSS Chowk, Celebration Mall and Verka tracks connecting Court Road, Kitchlu Chowk, Rialto Chowk, railway station, Bhandari Bridge, Elevated Road and Daburji.
 
 
 
 After the failure of Delhi BRTS, local bodies in key cities have been wary of trying out this option for traffic management. Bangalore and Bhubaneswar, which were in advanced stages of planning it, held back their decisions. At places like Pune, the BRTS died a slow death. Chandigarh too has been sitting on a comprehensive mobility plan (CMP), which includes a BRTS. Experts believe that Delhi was more like a bus corridor and not a full-fledged BRTS. Pertinent questions such as where to have the dedicated bus lane and safeguarding interests of pedestrians and other modes of travel need to be addressed.
 
