NAGPUR: The International Buddhist Studies Centre of Nagpur University, located in University Library premises, Ramdaspeth, has come under a cloud for having been constructed without mandatory clearances from the town planning, and fire service department of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC).

 Chief minister   and union transport minister Nitin Gadkari were slated to inaugurate it on April 28. However, due to the controversy, the two leaders refused to the attend the function. Late Thursday evening, NU decided to postpone the event. Registrar Puran Meshram confirmed that the event had been called off. NU officials had tried to obtain a temporary clearance from NMC, but had not received it till Thursday evening. 
 
 Sources in NMC said that the centre does not have a completion certificate, which is issued by the town planning after construction is over. “The building also does not have a no-objection certificate ( ) from the fire service. It also does not have an occupancy certificate, which has become mandatory nowadays,” said a source.
 
 This is not the only problem. NU has not left the mandatory 3 metre margin space for  , whose elevated viaduct is located on the adjoining  . 
 
 NU has now sought temporary clearance from assistant director of town planning (ADTP)  . NMC sources said Gawande had turned down the request as it would be highly illegal. Gawande told TOI on Thursday evening, “We have not issued any certificate so far. NU had, however, submitted the building plan.”
 
 Sunil Mishra, former chairman of NU’s mass communication board, has appealed to the CM not to inaugurate the Centre as it was illegal.
 
 Meshram, however, blamed the public works department (PWD) for the mess. “The department constructed the building and it was its job to get the necessary clearances. Now, since it has been handed over to us, we will obtain the necessary clearances and then inaugurate it,” he said.
 
 At present, the centre has two floors with total area of 10,500 square feet. They have been constructed at a cost of Rs5.5 crore.   (UGC) has paid 50% of the amount while the rest has been paid by NU from its common fund.
 
 
