AURANGABAD: The local crime branch of   police have busted an inter-state gang of dacoits with the arrest of three suspects allegedly involved in stealing goods worth Rs 27 lakh from a godown at   here. 

 A Jalna-based trader who had purchased a part of the booty has also been arrested, even as the kingpin of the gang and two others are at large, said police.
 
 Police have recovered 25 of the stolen bags, which were containing grain and other edible products, and a tempo have been recovered from Jalna.
 
 Under interrogation, the suspecs have confessed to selling off the goods to traders in Jalna and Nashik districts, said police.
 
 A local court on Wednesday remanded the suspects in police custody till April 29.
 
 Aurangabad rural superintendent of police   said, "We have launched a hunt for the key suspect in the burglary, Manzoor Pinjari, hailing from Nachanvel of   taluka of the district. 
 
 The officer said that with the busting of the gang, many property offences committed in and around Aurangabad district are likely to get solved.
 
 Sources in the LCB said that apart from Pinjari, two more unidentified suspects were involved in the burglary and efforts are on to track them down. 
 
 The godown, situated at village   on the Aurangabad Jalna highway, was burgled around 2 am on April 17. The entire crime was caught on the CCTV cameras installed at the godown.
 
 Pravin Sanjaykumar Jha, owner of the godown, had stated in his complaint stating 35 jute bags containing tea packets, 18 bags of coconut, 170 containing tobacco, five boxes containing different brands of bidis, 16 bags of rice, eight bags of areca nut and several boxes containing cigarettes were stolen.
 
 The arrested suspects were identified as Nasser Abdul Gaffar Shaikh (32) of Kagzipura in Aurangabad, Chandrakant   (43) of Gademada of Sinnar in Nashik, Amarsingh Mathallusingh Maurya (28) of Shakardaha in Kunda taluka of Pratapgarh in Uttar Pradesh and currently residing in Wadgaon Kolhati of   taluka of Aurangabad, besides while the trader Mohammed Aamer Ghulam Saber (32) of Dukhinagar, Old Jalna.
 
 
