KOHIMA: There wasn’t too much excitement across the state in the run-up to the polls but on Saturday, as the votes were counted, the atmosphere was electric. People assembled at the deputy commissioner’s office and frequently broke into frenzied cheers as names of winners were announced. 

 And just when the verdict seemed to be uncertain, a last minute show of support by JD(U) — which switched sides — and an Independent turned the tide. The BJP-Nationalist   (NDPP) alliance is likely to form the next government in   after winning 29 of the total 60 seats. 
 
 The JD(U), which won one seat, and an Independent have pledged support to the alliance, adding heft to BJP’s 11 and NDPP’s 16 seats. Though JD (U) had formed a prepoll alliance with Naga People’s Front (NPF), it switched over. BJP’s performance this time — winning 11 of 20 seats contested — has been the best since it started contesting the polls in Nagaland in 2013. 
 
  
  
 
 Naga People’s Front (NPF) has emerged as the single largest party with 27 seats while National People’s Party (NPP), which had backed NPF, has won two. On Friday, NPF had submitted a letter to governor PB Acharya informing him of its pre-poll understanding with NPP. JD(U) apprised him of its decision to make TR Zeliang the alliance’s CM candidate. 
 
 But in a remarkable turnaround, JD(U) decided to back the NDPP-BJP alliance on Saturday. NPF president Shurhozelie Liezietsu had earlier said, “The people of Nagaland are with us and they want us to form the government. Our priority is to bring a solution to the Naga political problem.” NPF press secretary   had indicated that his party was still open to atie-up with  . 
 
 But as negotiations continued through the day, any prospect of BJP signing up with NPF was put to rest as the saffron party threw its weight behind NDPP. BJP had dumped NPF for NDPP immediately after the election dates were announced. Zeliang, who succeeded Rio earlier as CM after the latter went to the   in 2014, won from Peren constituency. 
 
 But time seems to be up for the incumbent chief minister — who is currently heading the outgoing   government, of which NPF and BJP are partners — with Rio set to be back at the helm. 
 
 This election drew a lot of interest. Counting began at 8am, but people started arriving at 6am wrapped in woolen garments to shield themselves from the wind. “I am not a supporter of any political party, but I enjoy keeping track of the votes and how each candidate is doing,” said Kevi Angami, a member of the 8 Western Angami constituency, who was busy jotting down the numbers being announced on loudspeakers. “When Neiphiu Rio was chief minister, Nagaland witnessed a lot of development and stability. People now want him back at the helm,” an NDPP supporter said.
 
