PUNE: The Khadak police on Wednesday registered an offence against a 39-year-old man from   for   at a   girl, his  , on Wednesday night.

 The incident occurred when the minor (17) was alone in her house. Police have   the suspect under section 354 (outraging modesty) of the Indian Penal Code and the relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.
 
 An officer from the Khadak police said, “After finding her alone, the suspect came to her house and started enquiring about her college. All of a sudden, flashed at the complainant.”
 
 The officer said when the shocked girl started raising an alarm, the suspect threatened to kill her. 
 
 “The girl approached police after her parents returned home. We are yet to arrest the suspect,” he added.
 
 35-year-old accused of raping minor
 
 The   police on Wednesday booked a 35-year-old man for raping a 17-year-old girl for the past six months. Police said the suspect forcibly used to take the girl on the terrace of a building in the Warje Malwadi area to rape her. “Frustrated by the harassment, the girl on Wednesday came to us and lodged a complaint,” an officer from the Warje Malwadi police said.
 
 21-yr-old booked for stalking fellow student
 
 The Kondhwa police on Wednesday registered an offence against a 21-year-old architecture student for stalking and beating up a fellow female student from his college and also attempting to commit suicide by consuming some poisonous chemical.
 
 The incident occurred in Pisoli on Tuesday afternoon. The female student has lodged a complaint against the suspect with the police.
 
 An officer from the Kondhwa police station said after getting acquainted with the complainant, the suspect had started harassing her by visiting her room.
 
 On Wednesday afternoon, the suspect had gone to the complainant’s room under the pretext of study and started abusing her. 
 
 “He consumed some chemical in the room. He even abused and beat up the complainant,” the office said.
 
 He said the suspect has been booked for stalking and suicide attempt.
 
 
