AGRA: Aligarh Muslim University Teachers’ Association (AMUTA) has extended support to their counterparts in   and the Federation of Central University Teachers (FEDCUTA) for opposing the UGC’s recent decision of granting greater autonomy to 52 universities, including the AMU.
 
  Members of AMUTA executive committee passed a unanimous resolution demanding a rollback of the UGC’s decision that they say will provide “tools of exploitation” in the hands of the heads of the institutions.
  
  Claiming that their opposition to the move is in a bid to “save higher education from privatization and trade”, members of the executive committee of AMUTA say that they were granted “functional” autonomy by an Act of   since 1920. “This policy of financial autonomy will give complete freedom to the heads of all autonomous institutions from the rules and regulations and would lead to the exploitation of teachers, non-teaching staffs and students,” they said.
  
  They claim the move will lead to financial anarchy and would perpetuate corruption in the name of higher education in these central autonomous bodies. “We shudder to think of what would be the future of this great institution if a person with doubtful integrity is at the helm,” they said.
  
  Claiming that the “autonomy” is not suitable for public funded universities, the teachers said their objective is enhancement of social capital and that can never be linked to profit.
  
  “It is not possible to raise the university fees for all courses. First, we would have to drastically reduce the existing courses in many humanities and social sciences. Even the science and technology disciplines would be hit as the fees for such courses would be in lakhs that would be unaffordable for the middle class,” said Dr  , secretary of AMUTA.
  
  The members said that another major change being brought about is in the pattern of financing of higher education. “The grant system is being replaced by loans from higher education funding agency. The loan would be based on the monetary value of our assets such as land, buildings, books, equipment etc,” they said.
  
  “We would request members to distinguish between grants (unutilised funds earn interest from the banks) and loans (where we have to repay the original plus interest). To repay the loans, fees and routine charges shall have to be increased, again putting burden on the students,” said AMU teachers.
