NOIDA: Parents whose children complained of stomach ache and loose motion and threw up after eating school meals at Step by Step said on Friday the total number of kids affected could be anywhere between 100 and 150. 

 At five hospitals in Delhi and Noida, around 90 students of the school reported sick. At least 56 children were admitted to or treated at the OPD of three hospitals in Noida while 34 were treated at the Apollo and Max in Delhi (Step by Step has a fair share of students going from south Delhi). 
 
 Several students reported symptoms on Thursday evening and even Friday morning, parents said, and were taken to private clinics for medical advice. A teacher from the junior section was hospitalised in Noida. One parent said his son started throwing up around 11.30amon Thursday. “He only had parathas and drank water. We got a call from the teacher and he was rushed to hospital,” he said.
 
 A boy admitted at a Noida private hospital told TOI, “A severe stomach ache started and when I reached class, I puked. I was given some nimbu pani but it kept getting worse.”
 
 According to a spokesperson for Jaypee Hospital, 15 children were treated there, of which two are still under observation. Dr Arvind Garg, paediatrician at   in Sector 26, said he had got calls from panic-stricken children and teachers. “Around 30 students complained about vomiting, stomach ache and loose motion,” he said. Five kids aged between 5 and 10 are still admitted at the hospital and remain under observation.
 
 Most kids (19) were admitted to   in Saket. “The 19 children were brought to the emergency department after suspected food poisoning,” said a statement from the hospital, adding they were discharged after treatment. Eleven children were treated at  , two of whom are still admitted.
 
 An   spokesperson said 15 students came to the hospital reporting symptoms of food poisoning, of whom six-seven are under observation.
 
 Yetendra Kasana, president, All Noida Schools Parents Association (ANSPA) said all schools should allow home-cooked food. “We have sought a list from the district administration about the number of schools that do this (don’t allow food from home). This should not be allowed at all,” general secretary K Arunchalam said.
 
 Step by Step vice-principal Anita Raina did not respond to requests for a comment.
 
 An FIR was lodged against the school management on Thursday night on a complaint by city magistrate   under sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 328, 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty) and 328 (causing hurt by means of poison, etc) of the IPC.
 
 
