PATNA: Union minister for law and justice Ravi Shankar Prasad on Sunday said the judiciary should not overstep its limits. “The country’s constitution mandates legislature to legislate and enact the law, executive to implement it and judiciary to interpret the law. This ‘Lakshman Rekha’ should not be crossed by the judiciary,” Prasad said while addressing the valedictory session of second national conference on ‘State tribunals in India’ here.

 “The job of legislation must be left to those elected to legislate and governance to those elected to govern. Governance and accountability go hand in hand. I sometimes see the tendency of some judges taking over governance. They (judges) can’t take over governance. If they do so, they will be held accountable for that,” Prasad said.
 
 The minister said the tribunal structure must be rationalised and work should be done on their capacity building, integrity and fairness.
 
 Prasad said collegium system for appointments in tribunals was not acceptable. “The power of appointment of state tribunal is with state government and central tribunal with central government,” he said. The minister urged the   to conduct a self-audit to find out how the collegium system has worked since its introduction in 1993. “I have no problem if the issue is debated at national level,” Prasad said in the presence of three serving judges of Patna high court – Justice Anil Kumar Upadhyay, Justice   and Justice Mohit Kumar Shah.
 
 On Supreme Court terming the   (NJAC) Act formulated by Centre for appointment of high court judges “unconstitutional”, the minister said, “The proposed NJAC had Chief Justice of India, two other senior judges of Supreme Court, law minister and two eminent persons as its members. While rejecting the NJAC, the Supreme Court had said if politicians (read law minister) are involved in appointment of judges, it will put a question mark on judicial independence.”
 
 “The PM plays a key role in the appointments of President of India, the vice-president, Lok Sabha Speaker and deputy chairman of Rajya Sabha. He also appoints the three chiefs of armed forces as well as chief election commissioner and chairmen of UPSC, CVC and CAG. What is wrong in PM, through his law minister, having a say on appointment of high court judges?” the minister asked.
 
 Prasad said the Centre would soon roll out ‘Nyay Mitra’ for expediting litigations pending for above 10 years. An international arbitration centre will also be opened in New Delhi,” he added.
 
 
