DEHRADUN: A number of different species of birds,   are silent casualties in the recent bout of forest fires that have ravaged the state since the past few days. According to environmentalists, most of these species breed between March and May — which is also the fire season — and are unable to escape the blaze along with their young ones. Most of the time, there are no records of such casualties.
 
  Sanjay Sondhi, founder of Dehradun-based Titli Trust, an organisation working towards conservation of birds and butterflies, said, “ When large stretches of forests are taken over by fire, the mature species take refuge to safer places but fledglings as well as numerous insects get charred in the fire. And if this thing happens year after year, then a large population of wildlife will end up getting eliminated in this manner.”
  
  Recalling an incident from 2012, Sondhi said that the number of butterfly species came down from 200 to just 30 after a massive fire in   forests of Assam.
  
  He added, “Not just the population of these species but the wildfire also reduces their sources of food. The fruit trees on which birds or butterflies feed often perish in the fires thereby creating a food crisis.”
  
  No survey has been done to estimate the loss of these species post a fire, which makes it difficult to put figures to the loss but most experts concur that the casualties are happening and they can hamper the entire eco-system of an area.
  
  “ It is unfortunate that a survey has never been conducted even after the devastating fires in 2016 in Uttarakhand. A comparative data of over four to five years if maintained can come handy while assessing losses. The forest department should evaluate the losses every year and conduct a comparative study to check change in population of animal species,” said Raman Kumar, research associate with Nature’s Science Initiative, a Dehradun-based non-profit involved in ecological research.
  
  Avian scientist R Suresh Kumar added, “If a forest has been ravaged by fire every year around the same time, then gradually the soil type will start changing. The undergrowth of vegetation will gradually decrease and then disappear. Invasive tree species such as Lantana and Pine Chir will take over, thus modifying the eco-system in the long run.”
  
  He added that with different trees, migratory birds such as White crested laughing thrush will be replaced by Bulbuls. “The distribution of replaced birds will come down drastically due to loss of habitat”, he said.
  
  Even forest officials agree that the possibility of casualties is high in case of fires.
  
  Akash Verma, divisional forest officer of Haridwar forest division, said, “If there is a  , then all animals become vulnerable. For example, Monals can’t fly long distances and in times of forest fires, cannot escape to the higher Himalayas like other birds. Woodpeckers and migratory birds such as Black-rumped flameback stay in the lower and middle Himalayan regions of Pauri and Tehri and mostly perish if there is a fire.”
