CHANDIGARH: Punjab DGP (human resource development) Sidhharth Chattopadhyay on Wednesday submitted his final investigation report in relation to the alleged involvement of   Raj Jit Singh Hundal in the state’s   case. The report, which was signed by Chattopadhyay and two other members of special investigation team (SIT), was filed in a sealed cover.

 Chattopadhyay, however, filed one more report in a sealed cover, which was signed by him only. Other two members of SIT had completely disassociated themselves from that separate report. The second report was said to be related to the senior officers of  .
 
 A division bench headed by Justice Surya Kant ordered to place both reports on record. The court, however, recorded in its order that one of the reports submitted by Chattopadhyay was not signed by the other two SIT members. Adjourning the matter for July 25 for further hearing, the HC also observed that it would examine the reports. 
 
 On December 15, 2017, the HC had ordered to constitute a special investigation team (SIT) comprising three senior IPS officers, including Chattopadhyay, to probe the role of Moga SSP Raj Jit Singh in a   case. SIT was told to investigate the complicity between Raj Jit and inspector Inderjit Singh, who was arrested in a drug case. On April 6, Chattopadhyay had moved an application in the HC that he was being targeted by senior police officers “whose role was under investigation for being closely associated with Raj Jit Singh”. The senior cop had apprehended his implication in suicide case of the son of former president of Chief Khalsa Diwan Charanjit Singh Chadha, Inderpreet Singh, and had been seeking directions to get the matter probed from a CBI or a retired high court judge.
 
 Meanwhile, during the hearing of the case, Punjab advocate general   informed the HC that a challan had been presented in the Chadha suicide case against some persons. On this, the court reiterated its earlier orders and ordered to maintain stay on a probe against Chattopadhyay in the matter.
 
 
