 
Monal Gajjar, who is currently busy with the promotions of her two upcoming films   and   as well as occupied with shooting of her debut Marathi movie, took out time for Ahmedabad Times on March 6 for a Women’s Day special photo-shoot. Post the shoot, the actress was going back home along with her cousin Payal Limbachiya, owner of a popular salon and that’s when she came across a man who was urinating near the actress’ car parked on the main road close to Gulbai Tekra. Monal, who is known for her frank opinions and fearless attitude confronted the man and asked him not to urinate in public space. The man named Kamlesh Patel, who owns the photocopy and stationery store at the same location, not just disagreed, he went on to abuse her verbally adding lewd comments too.
 
  
  
 
 Monal took a video of Patel – to which he said on camera “je karvu hoy kari lo”. She posted the video on Instagram and the very next day, March 7, she filed an FIR against him on the grounds of public urinating, misbehaviour, verbal abuse and hurting a woman’s dignity. Monal told us, “It is Women’s Day today, and this incident that happened to me was in such a bad taste wherein you feel offended. Is this how you respect women? I am shocked and more so because I just signed a movie wherein I am going to essay the role of a woman cop — and when you are going to play such a powerful role, such incidents really shatter your faith.” She adds, “I simply asked that man not to urinate at a public place and then he hurled verbal abuses at me and also passed lewd comments. It certainly hurts a women’s dignity. I am glad that police department supported me and arrested this man.”
  
  
 When we got in touch with Hemant B Patel, police inspector, Gujarat University police station, he shares, “We have registered an FIR under section 110,117, 294 (b) for obscenity in public and using abusive language. The actress had just parked her car on the roadside when she saw a man urinating in the public just in front of the car. Gajjar honked but the man did not pay any attention and after urinating he came to Gajjar’s car and said why she was blowing her car horn.” He went on to add, “When she told him that he cannot urinate in the open, the man got enraged and used abusive language. She warned him to mind his words or else she will make his video. Patel got more agitated and told her to do whatever she can. Gajjar then made her video and put it on social media. We arrested him immediately although, he is out on bail. In such cases, the punishment could be upto three years’ jail.”
 With Women's Day celebrated on March 8, Monal surely put together an act of courage, truly empowered. 
 
