BHOPAL: In a surprise decision, the   government on Friday removed  ,   and   from  , saying that   have been advised to sell these crops under minimum support price ( ) to get justified price of their produce. 

 Garlic, which was included on March 15, and onion will continue to be under Bhavantar, which the state projects as a unique price support scheme to cushion farmers from market price fluctuations.
 
 "As the Centre is yet to take a stand of Bhavantar, we have decided that garlic and onion will continue to be included but farmers will have to sell gram, lentil and mustard at MSP, which the government will ensure," chief minister   told reporters at a hurriedly-called press conference on Friday evening. Madhya Pradesh has recorded bumper production of gram, lentil and mustard and farmers will get justified price of their produce under MSP, the CM said.
 
 Chouhan did not clarify why the government took this decision at time when the Centre has welcomed Bhavantar and has formed a group of ministers to study the scheme in the interest of farm community across the country. 
 
 
 
 
 Chouhan simply said that the central committee has not taken a stand, hencethedecision by thestate. “Bhavantar scheme has got very positive response, and a group of ministers under the chairmanship of home minister Rajnath Singh is studying it, but a decision in the regard is yetto arrive, theCMsaid, assuring that the MP government will “help farmers during all adversities”.
 
 After the announcement, the state government has asked farmers register for MSP. Those who have registered for Bhavantar will get the benefit, too.
 
 Officials said the decision to exclude these three crops from Bhavantar was taken after the Centre announced benefits under the scheme for Kharif crops. “The Centre is yet to decide whether to include Rabi crops, barring wheat and paddy, under Bhavantar. As per the formula, the Centre will have to bear expensesof Rs12,000crore under Bhavantar and after thorough discussion, Delhi will take the decision to include gram, lentil and mustard under Bhavantar,” said Rajesh Rajora, principal secretary of agriculture department.
 
 Chouhan is hopeful that Bhavantar will get countrywide acceptance after the Centre’s approval. “On Sunday, I will address farmers of MP and inform them about government welfare schemes. Niti Ayog is also working on Bhavantar and we are hopeful that farmers will soon get an appropriate plan to help them financially,” said Chouhan.
 
