PATIALA: The state government’s move to allocate   to   and increase in its annual grant by 6 % has been welcomed by the university vice-chancellor and faculty but they are still hoping for additional funds as the varsity is facing severe financial crisis.

 The university had failed to disburse the salaries of its teaching and non-teaching staff and also demanded Rs 300 crores from the state government recently. Now, the state government has announced Rs 50 crores grant besides an increase of 6 percent in annual grant.
 
 A move to establish two new academic chairs including Maharaja Agrasen Chair and Maharana Pratap Chair for which the government has allocated Rs 7 crores has come as another big boon for university. It has also brought a ray of hope for the revival of other academic chairs in the university that have turned passive with the financial crisis being one of the reasons.
 
 The university has half a dozen academic chairs including Bhai Veer Singh Chair, Bhai Gurdas Chair, Maharishi Valmiki Chair, Parshuram Chair, Gurmat Sangeet Chair, and Guru Teg Bahadur Chair. With the lack of proper funds, many of these chairs have remained incapable to work properly and conduct research.
 
 With the primary purpose of conducting academic research, four departments were established in 1965. These included Punjab Historical studies headed by historian Dr   and his assistant Fauja Singh, Punjabi literary study department headed by Dr Rattan Singh Jaggi, Development of Punjab Department (DPD) headed by Dr Attar Singh and department of Shri Guru Granth Sahib Studies headed by Dr  . Later the academic chairs were established with the sole motive of research.
 
 Professor  , vice-chancellor of the university, said, “We welcome the move of the government to announce Rs 50 crores grant and increasing percentage of annual grant besides establishing two academic chairs. But, we hope the government would further assistance to pull us out of the financial crisis in near future. The grants should be released at the earliest as this would come as immediate relief.”
 
 He further revealed that it was still unclear whether grants would be spent on other academic chairs.
 
 “We will look into the projects and efforts done by the heads of the chairs and it is difficult to decide at the moment,” he said.
 
 Facing crisis for past several months, the university witnessed protests by the faculty, most of which were staged by the non-teaching staff, for the failure in releasing the salaries to its employees.
 
 Kesar Bhangoo, a professor in university, said, “We are in dire need of these grants which will provide immediate relief. The government should have provided additional grants to this university."
 
