GURGAON: The   at   are to be inaugurated by the chief minister on January 20 and opened to traffic, according to minister of state for planning Rao Inderjit Singh. 

 Despite commuters getting stuck in traffic jams at   and Signature Towers daily, the administration has been missing deadlines, delaying the opening of the two underpasses. According to NHAI officials, the work on the underpasses is complete and the initial plan was to throw them open by December 31. The administration later fixed January 10 as the deadline. 
 
 According to sources, the administration and NHAI are waiting for chief minister Manohar Lal  , who will be in the city to attend the first Gurgaon Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) meet on January 20, to inaugurate the underpasses. 
 
 On Wednesday, after discussions with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and minister of road transport and highways  , Singh said that the underpasses would be opened for the convenience of commuters, even as work on the service lanes for the underpasses continued. 
 
  
  
 Amit Sheron, a resident of Sector 17, said, “Signature Tower and Rajiv Chowk underpasses were to be opened by now. The construction work is complete and this delay is annoying. People have to spend hours on the roads because of the traffic snarls at these places.” Pravesh Joshi, who resides near Sohna Road and uses the Rajiv Chowk route daily, said, “Traffic jams is an everyday story for me at Rajiv Chowk. I thought that the underpasses would bring some relief. I cannot understand what the authorities are waiting for.” 
 
 To solve the city’s traffic problems, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had stressed on multiple routes connecting Gurgaon to Delhi and announced the underpasses and flyovers at Iffco Chowk, Signature Towers and Rajiv Chowk on the Delhi-Gurgaon expressway nearly a year ago. 
 
 Ashita Kulshreshtha, a resident of Sector 10, said, “Rajiv Chowk underpass has been built but the official opening has not taken place. The delay is causing a lot of hassles for commuters. Traffic snarls are the order of the day. We request the authorities to expedite the opening.” Naina Arora, another commuter and a resident of Sector 86, said, “It has become harrowing to pass through that stretch. I am waiting for the underpasses to open. It will be a breather for us.”
 
 The Rajiv Chowk underpass will allow people from old Gurgaon to proceed towards Sohna Road easily and vice versa. Rajiv Chowk is one of the biggest traffic choke-points on the expressway as vehicles from both sides merge there. Two footover bridges will also be constructed at Rajiv Chowk. 
 
 The   underpass will ensure smooth traffic flow between Atul Kataria Chowk and Huda City Centre/Gymkhana Club. At Signature Tower, two three-lane underpasses are being constructed.
 
 
