Dilip Chatterjee — whom everyone knows as Dilipda in the neighbourhood — is a busy man. In the evenings, he can be spotted at the tea shop near Bikramgarh bazar. This is where Dilipda holds his durbar, and if you’re new to the area and are looking for a place to rent, you can’t do without this man in his late 40s. Dilipda is among the biggest property brokers in Bikramgarh. “Every day I get about 10-15 queries. The rent rates here are rising with every passing month. It is not anyone’s fault. The demand is going up. A 1BHK flat that could be rented for Rs 2,000 is now going for Rs 6,000. A 2BHK now comes for at least Rs 10,000, up by Rs 5,000 from the rents a few years back,” he says.
Much of this transformation of Bikramgarh from a quiet, middle-class Bengali neighbourhood to a bustling locality brimming with youthful energy has happened with the influx of people from the northeast, Darjeeling and Sikkim. What started as a trickle about a decade back, has turned into a flood now, with many Bengali households renting out a part of their property to young boys and girls from the hills. It works well for both parties — youths from these communities, who speak different languages and have varied food habits, can find comfort with their own; the landlords are glad to settle for higher rent in the firm knowledge that it would not be difficult to have the property vacated if necessary. The hills and the plains are locked in a happy embrace in Bikramgarh.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 “It feels like a home away from home,” says Anita Rai, who has been staying here for more than five years now. Kim Boi, who hails from Manipur and has come to a local grocery shop when we meet her, agrees wholeheartedly. “I have always felt safe here. I have been staying here for about two years now with my husband and two children. Bikramgarh is the second safest place for us after home,” Kim says. “I sometimes go back home for about a month or so. Sometimes my husband goes out on work and I stay alone, but Bikramgarh is much better than any other part of the city.”
 The easy air about the place can be felt at night, when the roads and eateries are full of young people laughing, talking, bantering and generally catching up. It’s not for nothing that the area is jokingly called Bachelor Para. 
 Once an address for post-Partition settlers and later, a poorer cousin to more affluent localities that surround it — Jodhpur Park, Lake Gardens, Golf Green and lately, South City — Bikramgarh has really come a long way, thanks to its northeast residents.
 Biman Dey, who has been a resident for more than 40 years, says, “When we settled in here, the place was just a wetland. My father bought the land as it was cheap. But the large crowd from the northeast has changed the social picture. Nowadays, their food has become part of our life too. They have made the place vibrant. Even at night, there are people on the road and it makes passersby feel safe.” He has a tenant who is often invited to his place for dinner, “He works for a software company and has become part of our family.”
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 There’s no way to understand a community better than through its food habits. Nowhere does this hold more true than in Bikramgarh — especially at Denzong Kitchen. Hot steaming momos, thukpa and their fiery pork curry are to die for and people travel from all parts of the city for some adda and a good meal here. The owner,  , hails from  . He started his journey from a small room and has two more outlets, in Bijoygarh and New Alipore. There are others who run momo stalls and hotels that serve Assamese, Nepali and a whole range of other cuisines.
 But business is not always smooth and hassle-free. About a year back, there were some reports that locals were not happy with the girls in shorts who came to the shop and smoked. “There was a small issue some time back but it has been sorted out. I cannot comment on someone’s clothes and I cannot even defy the locals. We were caught in between, and this affected our business. Moreover, the lanes are too narrow and parking becomes a problem,” adds Sourav.
 Cynthia, who hails from   and is married to local resident Amit Gupta, also remembers unpleasant occasions when she’s had to face racial slurs. “I’ve been staying here for over 10 years now. I know this place and the people are mine. I have been married to my husband for four years now have a son,” says Cynthia, who runs a small eatery with her hubby.
 While the neighbours are mostly nice, there are some, she feels, who are jealous of her. “The other day, there was some issue over parking and one of our neighbours came out and hit one of my customers. When I tried to stop the fight, the neighbour said, ‘Shut your shop and go back to the hills.’ Not that I cared much, but these things are still there. Despite these issues, Bikramgarh is still the best place to stay,” she avers.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 Why do you choose to stay in Bikramgarh? As we walked around the locality, we posed this question to many of its residents. The answer was unanimous. The colony gives a unique sense of freedom. Freedom to live, eat and behave the way you want to. Anisha Chhetri, who came to Bikramgarh as a student, is working now. “I am from Darjeeling; I have been staying here for five years now. The best thing about this place is we have people from our community and the place lets me choose how I want my life to be,” she says. Abhijit Dey, a banker and a local resident, adds, “I’ve been staying here since childhood and I’m in my early 30s now. I have seen how the para has changed. Freedom from interference is the basic requirement for those who come and stay here.”
 A little-kept secret of Bikramgarh is the number of live-in relationships the place has fostered. “Every other house has a live-in couple renting a room or an apartment. Most of them come and stay here because the owners are very peaceful and they don’t interfere with their personal life,” says Biswajit, who works in a restaurant 
 at Bikramgarh.
 Sharing an apartment is also quite popular among the tenants. “We generally hang out with people from our respective native places,” feels Nahshon Sada from Darjeeling. Konang Imche, who has been in Bikramgarh for five months now, says, “It is very different from my hometown, Kohima. I am studying here in JU and stay with two of my seniors who are also from Kohima. It is always good to stay with people from your homeland.”
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 The high demand for accommodation and the sharp spike in rent has also forced many from the northeast — quite a few of them are students on a tight budget — to move out of Bikramgarh. “The rent is too high now and people from our community are moving towards Bijoygarh. Most of the people from the mountains who come here are either students or have come to build a career. No one can spend so much on rent. About five years back, a 1-BHK apartment used to cost Rs 4,000; now it is almost double,” Cynthia points out. But there’s a flip side to that too. As the people move out and with them, the laughter and the youthful lifestyle travels, newer pockets of Kolkata will turn into crucibles of a cosmopolitan culture. Let a million Bikramgarhs bloom in our city.
 
 
 
 
  A 1BHK flat has gone up from Rs 2,000 to about Rs 6,000 a month, whereas a 2BHK flat now comes for Rs 10,000, the double of what it used to be a few years back
 
  A range of new restaurants like Denzong Kitchen serves dishes like momo, thukpa, shyapta and 
 others. The locals love it too 
 
  Though it’s a residential area, the roads of the locality stay busy till well past midnight. Many shops and eateries stay open too, thanks to the young crowd
 
  Shorts, crop tops, ripped denims — some of the trendiest people in the city can be seen 
 walking along the bylanes of Bikramgarh, thanks to its northeast connect
 
  From tattoo parlours to roadside cafés and a hip, young crowd, Bikramgarh is one of the trendiest places to stay in south Kolkata — and yet it’s not very expensive
 
 People from different communities stay together and are seen sharing space with each other
 
 
 
 I used to work in a BPO but the job often left me frustrated. My passion for cooking helped me start Denzong Kitchen. There are anyway very few places here serving dishes that are liked by people from the hills. No matter how many outlets I own in future, this one will always remain unaltered.
 — Sourav Chettri, entrepreneur from Kalimpong
 
 
 I hail from Assam and am here for business. I cook Assamese food in my kitchen and most of my friends who stay nearby eat at my restaurant. Bikramgarh is a home away from home. All my friends from Assam, who have come to Kolkata for work or education, stay here. And the hospitality of my neighbours really intrigues me.
 — Nihal Dangoria, restaurateur from Assam
 
 
 Bikramgarh is a peaceful place. Though people from many states and other districts of West Bengal stay in this area, we haven’t seen repetitive crimes here. However, there are some exceptional cases. To avoid unwanted activities, we’ve asked the house owners to collect details of their tenants, which we take from them later. The people of Bikramgarh have always been very cooperative. We ask the residents to report in case of any unusual activity and they inform us about every incident happening in the area. Since the narrow lanes of Bikramgarh are very well connected, making it easy for people to quickly escape, we’ve urged the residents to install CCTV 
 cameras to help us keep a track of what’s going on.
 — Pulak Kumar Dutta, officer-in-charge, Jadavpur PS
 
 Bikramgarh used to be mostly inhabited by lower middle-class Bengali families once upon a time. But now the 
 northeastern community has almost outnumbered them. The main reason behind this is that the landlords get more money from them and thus refuse to rent out flats to Bengalis. Moreover, since almost all of them stay alone without their guardians, they don’t have any set rules. The girls wear shorts, smoke in public, play loud music at night, and this lifestyle does not match with that of the average Bengali family. They even add to the pollution in the area. I have personally asked them to clean up the place so many times. We are ready to welcome everyone to stay here given they are ready to maintain the rules and regulations.
 — Tapan Dasgupta, councillor
 
 
 This place once used to be a wetland but easy access to the Metro and closeness to Jadavpur turned it into a hub for the northeasterners, who started settling down here. It has led to the deterioration of the neighbourhood’s condition. They are a bad influence on our youngsters. Their culture of drinking, smoking and living in has made this area unbearable for the average Bengali 
 family. They come here for work and stay on without any restrictions.
 — Arun Mukherjee, resident
 
 
 Youngsters from the northeast are quite intelligent and meticulous. Bengali kids, on the other hand, are always busy copying their hairstyle and dressing style. I wish they could even try to adopt their hardworking attitude at times. 
 — Bapi Adhikary, resident
 
 
 I’ve been running a tea shop here for 22 years now. Most youngsters staying nearby have breakfast at my stall. The environment of this place started changing with people from elsewhere pouring in. Small businesses like mine have naturally grown by leaps and bounds ever since. There are some people who create nuisance, but most of the young people are peace lovers.
 — Apu Chanda, tea stall owner
 
 
 
 — Shrutanwita Chakraborty
 
 
