CHENNAI: For years, Amrita Samant has been capturing cuteness. The newborn photographer often finds that her clients are as eager to frame their kids as she is. That’s why, a few days ago, Samant decided to help new mothers take better photographs of their children using the camera that is most handy — the one in their mobile phones.

 "Clients ask for tips and that gave me the idea of conducting the  ," says Samant, whose outfit, Mommy Shots by Amrita, has a presence in Chennai, Bengaluru and Singapore. 
 
 In the age of selfies, Snapchat and Instagram, cellphones have acquired a new pride of place. Complete with high-end cameras and   tools, they have edged out the point-and-shoot equipment that used to be an integral part of holiday baggage. Photographers and companies are cashing in on the trend, with the former offering special classes in smartphone photography and the latter using camera specifications to market their ware.
 
 Businessman Ashish Agarwal posts his travel photos on social media. "I use an iPhoneX; the picture quality is excellent," he says. Nevertheless, when he heard about a smartphone photography workshop, Agarwal immediately signed up. "I wanted to make my photos look more professional," he says, adding that he has started a separate account for his travel and food photographs on Instagram. "It serves as a digital record of my experiences," says Agarwal.
 
 Photographer Sundar Ramu, who has conducted more than 15 smartphone photography workshops across India feels the genre is emerging as a strong player in the imaging industry, with exclusive competitions for smartphone photography. "They say the best camera is the one in your hand so it’s great to have access to that kind of technology at all times," he says. According to Samant, instant gratification is pushing the trend. "You can click, edit it on the phone and share with the world," she says.
 
 Some photographers like Shannon Zirkle feel what matters is not the camera but composition, lighting and the story. "It’s more about the eye of the photographer than the camera they use," she says. "Learning to work within the limitations of your gear is a challenge that can make you grow as a photographer."
 
 There is a lot you can do despite restrictions of a smartphone, feel experts. "Phones have smaller sensors than DSLRs or point-and-shoot cameras. This means your camera has to work harder to gather details in images in low light. So remember to shoot in good light," says Samant. "Add moods to an image with lighting — backlit, low-lit and portraits."
 
 With apps like Enlight and Mextures, getting a stunning photo is easy. "Snapseed gives me control over editing while VSCO has natural looking filters," says Samant, adding that apps like Camera+ allow her to control the lighting before clicking.
 
 However, professionals and photographic societies say that while the smartphone may have hit the point-and-shoot camera market, the DSLR will never die. "The clarity, depth of field and lens options professional cameras offer are not comparable to cell phone cameras," says Zirkle.
 
 Award-winning photographer Sharad Haksar feels the fancy for cell phone photography is spurred by social media. "People want to click photos of anything – from the flight they take to the food they eat and put it up," he says. "But, if you want a good quality photo, then buy a camera." Also, only high-end phones give good picture quality. "For the same price, you can get a good camera. Companies like Sony now have mirrorless cameras that are less bulky," says Haksar.
 
 While smartphone photography competitions and online forums like iphoneart.com showcase works of photographers, traditional societies still do not take the genre seriously. "We don’t use cell phones on our photo walks or exhibit photos taken using phone cameras," says   M, president, Photographic Society of Madras. "To know the true beauty of a photo, you need to print it and cell phone photos don’t make good prints."
 
 But some, like Ramu are confident about the smartphone. "In the next five years smartphones will give professional cameras a run for their money. Especially since people are more inclined to sharing images online, prints don’t seem to be a concern for them."
 
 
