Duration: 140 minutes 
Director:   Mukhopadhyay
 Cast:  , Nivedita Mukhopadhyay, Satish Shaw
 Language: Bengali
 Star: ****
 
 Apart from their methodical madness, there is something else that connects   — the Man of La Mancha, and Hamlet — the Prince of Denmark. Instead of accepting life as it is, these two literary characters crafted a life that could be. They dream of a different world. Besides, these two characters also inculcate courage in their comrades so that they can dare to dream as well. The difference, however, between these two characters perhaps lies in their approach. While Hamlet chooses to be cynical in his dreams,   sees hope. While the former imagines rot in the state of Denmark, Don builds his kingdom out of nowhere. Don —   (DTBL) showcases that indomitable will to dream through each act, each movement and each dramatic exchange. And boy, what a treat it is to watch these dreamcatchers on stage!
 In terms of its star cast, grandeur and scale, Sujan Mukhopadhyay’s DTBL is one of the biggest shows on stage in Kolkata in recent times. It is also one of Chetana’s most ambitious projects and it lives up to the expectations at every level. On-stage acting, being the primary projection of theatre, is definitely the forte here. Suman Mukhopadhyay is back as an actor as Don, and he rules the stage with his vigorous physical acting and powerful song renditions. He falters not even for a moment; there’s nothing to tell you that this actor is on stage after almost 25 years. His muse, Dulcinea, played by Nivedita Mukhopadhyay, is outstanding in her character too. Dulcinea, aka Aldonza, is a loudmouth yet she is compassionate and most importantly, a dreamer. Nivedita leaves no stone unturned to render the minute shades of her character. So is Satish Shaw, who plays Don’s comrade, Sancho Panza. 
 But it is not the individual acts that make DTBL a magnum opus. It is a result of a solid teamwork. 
 Then there is this unpudownable script by Sujan, which has been adapted from his father Arun Mukhopadhyay’s  , which itself was a take on Don’s timeless tale. From the reference to Utpal Dutt’s   to Bertolt Brecht’s poignant line, “Unhappy the land that is in need of heroes” (knight, in this case), the play is replete with cross references that only uplift the spirit of the play. 
 Music too plays a very important part in this production. From tappa and kirtan to rock’n’roll and Flamenco — composer Prabuddha Banerjee creates a fascinating medley of sounds. In fact, the live orchestra becomes one of the narrators of the play. Along with Sudarshan Chakravorty’s choreography, the production is a wholesome entertainment package. With an enormous star cast and celebrated crew members from different skill fields — it is a big play that many Bengali theatre groups can’t even dream of. But along with its scale, DTBL has dared to dream big and that is the biggest takeaway from the production. This is a play that must not be missed. 
 
