Ludhiana: Despite being one of the oldest and most prominent parks of the city, Chattar Singh Park in Model Town is crying for the attention of civic authorities. With broken grills, littering, stray animals, and drunkards sitting inside, the park is no longer a place to visit with families or children. The civic authorities blamed the shortage of staff behind the utter neglect of this park.

 The park is named after Cadet Chattar Singh Dhadhli of the 3rd Punjab Battalion, NCC, who died on January 2, 1954. Not only the park, but also the monument installed inside the park is in a deplorable condition. The park is centrally located in Model Town, but even then, there are no arrangements for cleanliness in the park, which is gradually turning into a garbage dump. The authorities can develop it as a beautiful place for residents as well as joggers, but officials hardly care for it. This park is now mostly used by protesters to stage their protest or conduct their meetings for deciding their course of action.
 
 Gurpal Grewal, a resident of the area, said very few green spaces were left in the city, and whatever places were left were lying in a pathetic condition. He said last year, he had got iron grills fixed at two places, but now again, those grills are missing. “On the one hand, civic officials are running various sanitation drives under Swachh Bharat Mission, but after seeing the park’s condition, the claims of the department prove hollow,” he commented. Ashok Kumar, another resident of Model Town, said: “In the initial days, when the park was constructed, it was a good place for joggers and residents of the area, but now, there is nothing for the enjoyment of residents.” He further said the authorities should pay attention towards the park’s condition.
 
 Meanwhile, MC horticulture wing executive engineer Surinder Kumar said there was a shortage of staff, due to which they were unable to manage public parks properly. Regarding the park’s condition, he said there was a dispute between members of two park management committees who were handling the park, due to which it was lying in such a condition. “I will check the current status now, and suitable action will be taken to improve the condition here,” he claimed.
 
 ACUTE STAFF SHORTAGE
 
 Ludhiana has a total of 847 public parks within MC limits, out of which 459 are being managed by 250 park management committees. To keep a watch on these parks, MC has only two junior engineers. In Zone D, where this park is located, there are 427 parks, while in zones A, B and C there are 75, 202, and 35 parks respectively. There is only one landscaping officer and one executive engineer in the horticulture branch. 
 
 
