NAGPUR: The city is all set to come under   from next month, with 3,551 of 3,893 CCTVs already installed, and some 3,000 of them
transmitting live images as on date. All CCTVs are set to become operation from the middle of May. The footage from these CCTVs has reportedly helped the police department crack over 100 cases in the transition phase itself.
 
 An initiative of CM Devendra Fadnavis, the state’s directorate of information technology (DIT) is executing the Rs520 crore Safe and Smart City Project in association with   ( ) and police department, through private operator L&T Construction. The project covers five components, including CCTVs with optical fibre cable network backbone, and will be established, operated and maintained for five years by L&T.
 
 L&T was awarded the project on October 18, 2016, with a deadline of one year. The project could not be completed, so deadline was extended to March 31 this year.
 
 NMC says over 90% works are complete as on date. Executive vice-president and head of L&T Construction’s Smart World Communication R Srinivasan told TOI the project was in advanced stage of commissioning, and is expected to formally go live in May. “The project is nation’s first large scale integrated Smart City project with dedicated fibre and a unique Smart Strip Concept. We have been able to complete a majority of the solutions. Various stakeholders, including NMC and police department, are presently inspecting and verifying various subsystems of the project. Over 90% line items have already been inspected,” he said.
 
 L&T officials said that 16 of the over 100 cases cracked by the police department with the help of   footage as yet were crucial ones. Footage helped identify the accused in murder of the Khamla child, and Lakadganj serial murder cases, some chain snatchings, robbery and other criminal cases. Footage also helped reveal Law College square building fire incident was an arson.
 
 A team of L&T, police and traffic departments is monitoring the footage at City Operation Centre developed at NMC head office. For the same purpose, command and control centre is under construction at police headquarters and is likely to be completed by December. L&T is storing the footage for 15 days. The teams of police and traffic departments are also utilizing live footage at the centre for various purposes.
 
 There are also complaints related to the project. Activist Shaheed Sharif has lodged complaint about cables laid at almost surface level at a few locations violating the norms. “Smart display boards, poles of CCTVs, bus stops etc have been erected on footpaths raising question on Smart City concept. Information under RTI is delayed. No cognisance is being taken about complaints,” he said.
 
 
