Rajkot: A magisterial court of Bhuj sentenced IPS officer Manoj Ninama to one year’s imprisonment after it found him guilty in a 17-year-old custodial torture case on Wednesday. 

 Ninama, who was deputy superintendent of police Bhuj when the complaint was filed against him in 2001, is currently serving with the police intelligence bureau (IB) in Ahmedabad.
 
 Additional judicial magistrate V D Modh while imposing fine of Rs 10,000 also stayed execution of his own order for 30 days after Ninama’s advocate requested time to challenge it in higher court. The court convicted Ninama under the Indian Penal Code Section 323 (voluntary causing hurt).
 
 According to case details, Mohmmad Ismail Sama registered a private complaint in 2001 in Bhuj court against Ninama. As per the complaint, one Chaman Gaur and Pratapsinh had issued public notice in a newspaper to sell their land and had invited objections. In reply, Sama issued notice raising objections, saying that he was the rightful owner of the land.
 
 After raising the objection, Sama was called to Bhuj city police station, where Ninama asked him to withdraw it. However, when Sama refused, he was charged under the IPC Section 385 (putting person in fear of injury in order to commit extortion) and was tortured and beaten in police custody.
 
 The next day Sama lodged a complaint in Bhuj court that he was tortured and beaten in custody. Court ordered medical check up, which also confirmed the allegation. 
 
 Sama’s advocate Hemsinh Chowdhri said, “Court issued process order after physical injury was found in the medical report. Sessions court gave permission to start the process. In subsequent years, the court also rejected Ninama’s discharge application.”
 
 The chargesheet was framed against Ninama in 2014 after which the trial commenced. 
 
 “The other accused who was in custody at the time of offence was also made witness in the case. After hearing the arguments over the years, court convicted Ninama and sentenced him to one-year in prison,” Chowdhri said. Court also ordered Ninama to pay Rs 10,000 compensation to the complainant.
 
 
