NEW DELHI: The government is likely to rein in the   at the targeted level of 3.2% of   ( ) in the current financial year (2017-18), despite worries that it may breach the limit.

 Indications emerging from sources show that the government will signal its “strong commitment” to fiscal consolidation in the Budget. In all Budget speeches since 2014-15, FM Arun Jaitley has reiterated his commitment to fiscal consolidation. Last year, he overcame pressure from several quarters to step up spending to boost growth and adhered to the fiscal goal. Financial markets, however, expect a minor slippage in meeting the target.
 
 
  
 The uncertainty over indirect tax receipts, following the rollout of the Goods & Services Tax ( ) had triggered doubts about the government’s ability to stick to the target. The move to unveil an extra borrowing of Rs 50,000 crore also added to the worries. But this borrowing has now been scaled down to Rs 20,000 crore, much to the relief of financial markets, indicating the government’s comfort level with the cash position.
 
 The optimism over the government’s ability to stick to the 2017-18 target stems from a variety of reasons. Indirect tax revenues have rebounded in December after slowing for two consecutive months. Personal income tax revenues also continue to be robust. Tax revenues are expected to recover lost ground in the net two months before the financial year ends in March. Personal income tax receipts rose an impressive 22% in the advance tax collections up to December, which experts attributed to the widening of the tax base after demonetisation.
 
 The bumper receipts from disinvestment have also added to the optimism. The government is expected to close the current financial year with record disinvestment mop-up of over Rs 90,000 crore on the back of its stake sale in   to  . 
 
 Fiscal deficit is the difference between the revenue receipts and the total expenditure. This indicates the total borrowing requirements of government from all sources.
 
 The government is also likely to use the Budget to prepare the ground for the RBI to cut interest rates. Sticking to the fiscal consolidation path will act as a major trigger for rates to come down despite sticky inflation.
 
 Economists said the government may opt for a marginally higher deficit target for next year. “The union budget for FY-2018 as well as FRBM Review Committee report (N K Singh Committee) had indicated a fiscal deficit target of 3% of GDP for FY2019. However, we foresee a low likelihood that the fiscal deficit in FY2019 would be capped at this level. In our view, the government may budget for a fiscal deficit for FY2019 that is only modestly lower than the revised estimates for FY2018, in a likely range of 3.2-3.5% of GDP,” ratings agency ICRA said in a note.
 
 
