LUCKNOW: Kanpur-based pen giant  's owner   has submitted an application before a   court in Lucknow, seeking permission to get home-cooked food and routine medical check during the interrogation while saying that he is 70-year-old and suffers from 21 ailments. 

 Kothari was sent to 11-day CBI custody in Delhi on Saturday following a criminal complaint registered by   for allegedly cheating six financial institutions for more than Rs 3,000 crore. The agency has claimed that Kothari, through his parent firm  , used the multi-crore credit facility from banks for purposes other than exports of commodities and dealt in merchandise trading.
 
 ‘ Illegal confinement caused stress’
 
 The applicant has been suffering from chronic dibetes for over 20 years, which has affected kidneys and eye sight. The applicant is suffering from fluctuating blood pressure, cervical disease, spinal injury, knee problem, nerve problem, hypertension, anaemia, severe motor neuropathy in lower limbs," Kothari’s application says.
 
 He has also claimed that he has had fever on unknown origin, dehydration and peripheral neureopathy, while attaching medical reports from Mumbai, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh hospitals. The CBI court, in its order on Saturday, accepted Kothari’s appeal for special medical attention. His lawyers have alleged that CBI kept him under illegal confinement for four days.
 
 "The applicant has undergone severe stress due to his illegal confinement over the past 4 days. This has had an obvious and apparent impact on his medical condition...The medical condition of the applicant needs constant medical attention and monitoring, especially since he is chronic diabetic,” it added The CBI which had moved an application for his custody, had cited reasons as “to unearth larger part of conspiracy” and “to identify parking of crime proceeds”, “to establish siphoning and diversion and trail of crime proceeds as well as to establish sham business transactions, as revealed by banks, by visiting offices at Hong Kong, Dubai, Sharjah.
 
 
 
 
