CHENNAI: They may be bitter rivals across the nation, no less in Tamil Nadu, but that has not prevented the   from sharing its property with the BJP. A committee formed by the   to reclaim encroached and problematic properties across Tamil Nadu found that the Congress owned the building in which the   has set up its district office in Ooty. Steps are now being taken to vacate the BJP office from the property.

 The members of the TNCC Property Recovery Committee, most of whom are advocates, have estimated the value of Congress properties across the state at over Rs 1,000 crore. “It is nearly a year since the committee was set up by TNCC chief S Thirunavukkarasar. It has started visiting various areas in Chennai as well as other districts. The TNCC has properties in taluks and villages as well,” committee chairman   told TOI. 
 
 During their visit to Ooty, they found several properties belonging to the Congress. “One of these is in   and it is being occupied by the BJP as their district office. We will ask them to vacate,” said Gandhi.
 
 TOI spoke to senior BJP leaders in Coimbatore district, who said they do not know anything about the property. “It is news to us. We will check with our leaders in Ooty,” said Tamil Nadu BJP spokeperson S R Sekar.
 
 When asked, BJP state executive committee member B Kumaran, who hails from Ooty, denied that the property belonged to their rival. “We would never, ever imagine taking an office space for our party from a staunch rival. The news is false. In the Nilgiris, our district headquarters is at Kotagiri. We have party offices in Ooty, Coonoor and Gudalur. Of course, our Ooty office is a rented one, but certainly not belonging to the Congress,” he said 
 
 The Congress has records for most of its properties. But during its visits to taluks and villages the recovery committee has found more properties that belonged to the party.
 
 “For some properties we don’t have proper records, but local Congressmen as well as residents told us that the land belonged to the party. Before visiting a place, we announce a meeting of people who are occupying the party property. We first ask them to pay the rent. If they don’t pay up we will try to pressure them through our party leaders. If they do not oblige, we will file cases against them,” said Gandhi. 
 
 The committee has so far reclaimed 102 properties in 20 districts.
 
 
