It was only a few days ago when students in Bengaluru took to the streets to protest sexual assaults that shook our country. Days after the country erupted in rage over these incidents, President   gave his assent to an ordinance permitting capital punishment for those convicted of raping children below 12 years of age.   asked students from the city about their thoughts on the same… 

 
 
 While several students welcomed the ordinance that permits capital punishment to the accused, not all are for it. “I feel that it’s a good move. However, this should’ve been done a long time back,” says Nikhil Angelo, an 18-year-old student, adding that not just the introduction, but the implementation of such an ordinance is the need of the hour. 
 Aman Nidheesh, a student from  , says that an ordinance like this is definitely a good move. “It is a good thing that the government has introduced such an ordinance, but it is the implementation that matters,” he says, adding, “There is no point in introducing an ordinance like this if it is not implemented immediately. It is due to such lax rules that the accused often do not fear the law.”
 However, the move has also generated mixed responses among the student fraternity. “To be honest, capital punishment has always been a controversial topic. I feel that symbolically, it works in theory. But capital punishment acts only as a deterrent and not a solution for such crimes,” says Sonal Shenoy, a student from   (Deemed to be) University. 
 
 
 
 But does introducing such an ordnance eliminate such crimes altogether? Students says ‘no’. “The death penalty is definitely the answer to such crimes, as there cannot be anything worse than sexual assault. Handing life imprisonment doesn’t do much as there is no guarantee that the accused, once out of jail, won’t commit the same crime again,” says Dhulika Somaiah, a student of   — CMS.
 Capital punishment won’t eliminate the crime completely, but it will definitely help bring down the rate of the crime, say some students, adding that a rule like this will definitely instill fear into those who commit such crimes. “Most of the times, we see that the accused get bail and are out on the streets without any punishment. If such a law is implemented, not only would it make the accused fear the law, but it will also empower women, who will report such cases more often, forcing the authorities to take action,” says Nikhil, adding, “Such rules, however, need to be uniform in all cases of sexual assault, across all genders. A crime is a crime. If the juvenile has the audacity to commit an act that an adult would, then he or she should be tried as an adult.”
 
 
 
 While implementation of stringent laws is a must, a change is needed not just at an individual level, but at the societal level as well. “Toxic masculinity is to be blamed for such incidents. The society puts pressure on both men and women. When it comes to men, it’s their masculinity that is questioned. We need to change that. The change needs to start at our homes,” says Sonal, adding that we can’t always hold the government and the police responsible for such actions. Similarly, a change from within is required. “It all depends on how one looks at a person. While a lot of parents ensure their upbringing is right, you never know how the individual will turn out when he/she is out of the house. He/she can easily be influenced by friends and others,” says Aman. 
 
