LUDHIANA: There is no respite in the robbery, loot, and snatching incidents in the city. While bike-borne miscreants rob people, police have failed to solve at least 10 cases since last year, including four very recent cases.

 On April 11, two bike-borne miscreants tricked a hosiery trader — Shiv Kumar Bansal (60) of   — and looted him of Rs 9 lakh on   in broad daylight, while he was going to his factory from his house with a bag of cash. At RK Road around 11am, the miscreants waved at the driver to stop and said fuel was leaking from the engine. When the driver and trader came out to check, the miscreants picked up the cash bag and laptop and escaped. Three days later, police have not been able to find any clue.   cameras captured the car and bike, but could not capture any face or registration number. 
 
 On April 6, two bike-borne six armed robbers robbed a father-son duo of Rs 7 lakh from outside their house in Model Town. The robbers threatened the duo with weapons, snatched the bag of cash and escaped from the spot. The police found CCTV footage which captured the accused on bikes. However, due to darkness, the registration number of bikes could not been captured clearly. 
 
 On March 20, two unidentified assailants opened fire at the employee of a private collection company and robbed Rs 18 lakh from outside   at Ludhiana-Ferozepur road in broad daylight. The employee, accompanied by a security guard and driver, had gone there to deposit the cash, collected from different companies, when the accused opened attack on them. The police recovered two bullet shells from the spot. The incident was captured on CCTV installed outside the bank, but the police have still not been able to trace the accused.
 
 On February 2, four bike-borne unidentified miscreants robbed an oil trader in   of Rs 15 lakh in cash by threatening him with weapons, executing the crime within 30 seconds. The trader and his accountant were counting cash in the office at 9.30pm when masked robbers barged in, carrying sharp-edged weapons and guns. They snatched cash from the trader, put the shutter down, and fled on their motorcycles. 
 
 
