Jaipur: Markets and malls across the city largely remained closed contrary to the expectations of people who had planned for a normal day. Since there was no restriction on movement of vehicles, people who went out to shop or watch a movie were disappointed to see them shut.

 Markets started opening after 2 pm when the protesters left. But industry bodies estimated the loss to businesses across the state at between Rs 2,000-2,500 crore on a single day.
 
 “Across the state, shops, malls and commercial establishments lost businesses worth between Rs 2,000-2,500 crore. Some outlets and establishments have also been damaged by the protesters. If the agitators are disappointed with the Supreme Court ruling, they should try to close the courts and government offices who are the decision-makers. What do they get buy damaging and forcefully closing the markets and bazaars,” said Suresh Agarwal, president of Federation of Rajasthan Trade and Industry (FRTI).
 
 Markets like Raja Park downed shutters fearing violence from protesters. Although the traders association did not issue any order, the decision was unanimous.
 
 “On a normal day, traders in Raja Park do businesses worth Rs 2 crore which was lost due to the agitation. But we cannot do anything. The traders’ community does not have any party affiliation. Irrespective of political parties or organizations which organize such strikes or bandhs, we follow them despite the fact that we lose business opportunities,” said Ravi Nayaar, president, Raja Park Traders’ Association.
 
 But some shops and establishments were caught off-guard. They failed to anticipate the scale of the bandh and remained opened. For example, outlets in the Crystal Palm Mall at Bais Godam had to face the fury of the protesters who were passing through the road in a huge rally.
 
 Finding the outlets open, a group of protestors started throwing stones at the mall. The glass facades of some outlets, including the McDonald’s, got damaged. The mall management had to close the shops immediately.
 
 Scared that the crowd may return and attack Inox for running movies, mall authorities decided not to allow people from the theatre hall to go out or others to come inside.
 
 
