INDORE: Granting relief to workers of   Ltd,   has upheld the order which quashed the business transfer agreement executed between century textiles and Wearit Global Ltd. 

 “Under the provision of Registration Act, the document in question is compulsory registrable, but is not registered, nor business transfer agreement was duly stamped and is therefore, invalid, unenforceable and not binding,” high court in its order has ruled. 
 
 The agreement was executed on August 22, 2017, for the sale of Century Yarn and Denim unit of Century Textile & Industries Ltd to Wearit Global Ltd.
 
 The workers were protesting against the said agreement since August 2017, on the grounds that they were not involved in the sale, and they did not want to work for Wearit Global Ltd. They also said that the agreement was a sham document as proper valuation of property was not done. The stamp duty was not paid and nor was the agreement registered.
 
 The sale deed for yarn and denim unit was executed for Rs 2.51 crore, whereas a valuation of the total property of yarn and denim unit was done at Rs 426 crore. 
 
 Division bench of Justice PK Jaiswal and Justice Virendra Singh also ruled that the business transfer agreement has been executed for committing illegality and/or to defraud the employees. “We are of the view that learned senior counsel of the Union has rightly said that the court will disregard the corporate veil and treat the company as a mere sham,” the court has ruled. 
 
 The court in its order also explained its jurisdiction over the matter since the Article 227 of the Constitution granted right to high court to exercise supervisory jurisdiction over decision made by any statutory or quasi-judicial body. 
 
 The petition was moved by Century Textile & Industries Ltd, challenging the order by MP Industries Tribunal. The petitioner company had alleged that the industries tribunal had only been referred a question about whether it was desirable to extend the benefit of voluntary retirement scheme to workers who had been employed at the company during the transfer.
 
 However, the tribunal instead of deciding this, quashed the business transfer agreement which was a valid document, the petitioner company said.
 
 
