NOIDA: The death of a 50-year-old man after falling from a moving train has sparked a war of words between authorities at the   and the district hospital in Noida over alleged negligence in administering  .

 The man, who is yet to be identified, had died allegedly in the ambulance while being taken to the district hospital, where he had been referred to from the Kasna medical college.
 
 Authorities at the district hospital have said that the medical college had referred the patient without even administering first-aid, a charge the Kasna health facility has denied.
 
 Dr  , chief medical superintendent at the district hospital, said some railway officials had dialled 108 to inform about a man who seemed to have fallen from a moving train in Dankaur region. Soon, an ambulance stationed in Dadha had rushed to the spot.
 
 According to  , the emergency medical technician who had attended to the victim while taking him to the nearest Kasna medical college, said he was bleeding profusely from the head and nose. “The ambulance arrived at 12.27pm. The man seemed to have a fracture in the jaw, feet and the right hand. He was unconscious for some time but when he came to, he was in lot of pain,” he said.
 
 The patient could not be identified as he was unable to tell his name or give other details. Agrawal said a ticket of a Malda-bound train was found in his pocket.
 
 The man was apparently brought to the medical college at 12.57pm. Sunder claimed that the doctors there could not give him first-aid as he started running around and got “uncontrollable”. “They did not find him fit for a medico-legal case but entered his name in the category despite that. No first-aid was given to him as he got uncontrollable,” Sunder said.
 
 The man was referred by Kasna medical college to the district hospital around 1.35pm, but he allegedly died on the way. “He became non-responsive about 16 minutes into the journey,” Sunder said.
 
 Agrawal said the man had died before the ambulance could reach him to the district hospital. “Technically, the district hospital should be referring such cases to the medical college,” he said, adding that he would write to the DM about the problem.
 
 Dr  , professor and officiating director at the Kasna medical college, said an MLC had been conducted on the patient. “The medical college has just started full-fledged services and we are a relatively new institute. However, in this particular case, an MLC had been done,” she said.
 
 
