THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief Minister   spent Rs 8 lakh from the State Disaster Response Fund ( ) for traveling to and fro in a private chopper from a   conference in Thrissur to the capital city last month. After the issue became a controversy, the chief minister’s office on Tuesday hurriedly cancelled the original order and clarified that the general administration department will foot the bill.

 On December 26, Vijayan, who was attending the CPM Thrissur district conference at Thriprayar, flew from a privately-owned helipad in Nattika to Thiruvananthapuram to take part in a cabinet meeting and to meet the central team which had come for assessing cyclone damage in the aftermath of  . He then returned by the same chopper to the party conference.
 
 According to a government order dated January 6, 2018, state police chief Loknath Behera hired the helicopter from Chipsan Aviation Private Limited.
 
 “The helicopter (AW 109 E Twin engine) was hired for the to and fro journey of the chief minister from Nattika Cotton Mill helipad in Thrissur district to Thiruvananthapuram in connection with the visit of inter-ministerial central team for assessment of the prevailing Ockhi cyclone situation,” the DGP’s letter said.
 
 
 Though the aviation company had quoted an amount of Rs 13,09,800 initially, it got reduced to Rs 8 lakh after negotiations, the letter added.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Following the DGP’s request for payment to the company, the government accorded sanction to the Thiruvananthapuram district collector to release and disburse the amount from SDRF account to the DGP. However, as the spending from SDRF became a controversy and the opposition UDF came out against the chief minister, the   directed the revenue additional chief secretary to withdraw the order. A CMO official said the CM was in the dark about the order. “The order will be cancelled. General Administration Department will bear the expense incurred for the chopper trip”, he said.
 
  president M M Hassan condemned the decision to pay the CM’s helicopter bill from the disaster management fund. “There is no justification for the CM’s act especially since the government collects fund from the public for Ockhi disaster relief ”, Hassan said.
 
 In a similar incident early November last year, the DGP had chartered a small aircraft for the chief minister to attend the concluding ceremony of the second all-India conference of   (DSMM) in Madurai in Tamil Nadu. Vijayan travelled from Thiruvananthapuram to Madurai and back on that chartered aircraft. There’s no clarity yet on who exactly paid the bill.
 
