Chandigarh: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Badal on Thursday asked Punjab chief minister to issue immediate orders for replacing the content of new history books of Classes XI and XII with the elaborate details about Sikh history being taught earlier. He warned that in case the chief minister failed to act, he would have to face the resistance of the Sikh community from world over.

 Addressing mediapersons here, Sukhbir said that a SAD-BJP delegation would meet the Punjab governor on Friday, seeking his intervention in the matter to continue with the detailed Sikh history syllabus as was in practice earlier.
 
 The SAD president said that a meeting of all SAD committees and political advisers will be convened on the issue on May 11 at Bhai Gurdas Hall in Amritsar. Sukhbir said earlier history book (guide) for Class XI was having 97 pages on Sikh Gurus while Punjab School Education Board’s (PSEB) new book has only 24 lines on one page. He said the new history book of Class XI has only six chapters on Sikh history. He added that the earlier history books had pictures of Sikh Gurus but the new ones have pictures of Ahmad Shah Abdali and other such people.
 
 Asked as to why the SGPC member who was part of the expert committee to decide the history syllabus did not oppose, Sukhbir said, “Paramvir Singh (SGPC member) was part of the content committee and not the syllabus committee.” The SAD president said that there were 22 chapters in the earlier history book (guide) for Class XII students and the same practice should continue. He also said that SAD had no issue whether the books were published by the PSEB or some private party. Sukhbir said that his party had no problem with the addition of extra history chapters but not after deletion of any content.
 
 The SAD president said, “For us, this is not an issue of political one-upmanship. I am sure the CM too would realize the implications of the issue for the Sikhs and for every Indian all over the world. But time is running out. He must act in the right direction and must do so fast.”
 
 Earlier in the day, SAD held its core committee meeting also attended by former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal and other SAD leaders. Party spokesperson Harcharan Bains said a resolution was passed at the core committee meeting that the ruling party was playing havoc with the Sikh history in a conspiracy to keep the coming generations ignorant about their proud history.
 
 
