Nagpur: Ethical behaviour in a firm is key to achieve success, so it is essential that all the activities carried out in an organization are directed towards this prime goal. Any action that runs counter to this goal has to be reviewed, modified or corrected, said V Ramchandran, former chief technical examiner of Indian Institute of Materials Management (IIMM), on Saturday. 

 He was speaking on ‘Ethical leadership: A vigilance perspective for sustainable excellence’, organized by the Nagpur branch of IIMM at a two-day seminar held at a city hotel. Representatives from government offices like WCL, SECL, MECL and MOIL were present. 
 
 Talking about malpractices which create hassles, Ramchandran said, “The problem of corruption has been recognized globally that hampers the growth of a firm in the long term. The root cause can be tracked down to greed. Even if a corrupt organization runs smoothly, its future would be dark because it would not be an efficient one.”
 
 Is it legal? Is it fair to all parties involved in the transaction? Will you be ashamed of if the decision is made public and known to all? One should ask himself these three question to determine if any action is appropriate or not, said Ramchandran. If his conscious pricks, then he must refrain from taking such steps. “With this litmus test we can conclude that the various frauds and scams that have taken place in the past were with corrupt intentions,” he added.
 
 In his address, chairman of IIMM, Nagpur, Y Venkata Ramana said, “Management means doing right things while leadership means doing things rightly. An ethical leader is truthful, responsible, accountable and fair. He is expected to be sensitive towards the society, especially his employees and consumers.” 
 
 There is a serious need for such leaders keeping in mind the present scenario of cut-throat competition. He will not just display knowledge about the organization but also reflect the high morals. Ethical leadership provides a balance between well-being of subordinates and wider community and the organization’s profitability and objectives,” he added.
 
 GK Singh, national president of IIMM, RN Jha, chairman-cum-managing director of MECL; AP Labhane and M Bhimte, chief vigilance officers at WCL and MECL respectively, were present. 
 
 
