MUMBAI: A day after being pulled up by the  ,   have registered an   against four cops of   for allegedly   of a 21-year-old automobile engineer in August 2017. 

 On August 23, 2017, Mitesh Jagtap, who had a diploma in automobile engineering, was found hanging in his house in Titwala, Thane. Subsequently, his mother, Pushpa, approached the HC alleging that he committed suicide after he was “beaten mercilessly’’ by police on the night of August 21-22 in connection with a bike theft case. In their complaint, the parents said that after the illegal detention “Mitesh was limping and walking very slowly out of the police station that night and his father was asked for Rs 50,000 else his son may be trapped in a false case’’.
 
  
  
 
 A Thane Rural deputy superintendent of police and an investigating officer, who appeared in the HC on Wednesday after being summoned, apologised for the delay (in filing FIR). Through additional public prosecutor Jayesh Yagnik, they said an FIR was lodged against four policemen on Tuesday night. The HC has ordered an investigation by the local crime branch and directed that a probe report be submitted within four weeks. 
 
 Pushpa, who contested the local civic polls in 2016 as independent, had sought registration of FIR against four policemen, including senior inspector of Titwala police station. She also sought that the cops be booked for criminal conspiracy for threat and extortion as well as under the SC/ST (prevention of atrocities) Act.
 
 On December 8, 2017, the HC issued notices to Titwala police and directed the prosecution to file an affidavit. But when the case came up for hearing on Monday, no reply was filed and the reason given by the prosecutor was that since an “inquiry was being conducted by the additional superintendent of police, it was not found appropriate to either file reply or lodge an FIR.’’
 
 During Monday’s hearing, a bench of Justices Bhushan Gavai and B P Colabawalla said, “A perusal of the complaint lodged by the petitioner on November 11, 2017, would clearly reveal that the complaint discloses commission of cognizable offence. As such, police authorities were bound to register an FIR.” 
 
 The HC directed the police to appear in court to “show cause as to why action should not be taken against Respondent Nos.3 and 4 (deputy superintendent of police and senior police inspector), for not registering an FIR on the basis of the complaint lodged”.
 
 
