NEW DELHI: Only five years ago, Justice   report that led the erstwhile   government to enact a tougher anti-rape law in 2013, had strongly opposed death penalty for rapists, noting that it would be a regressive step and may not have a deterrent effect. 

 Citing international law and law as explained in the American courts, the panel — headed by Verma, a former Chief Justice of India, with retired high court judge   and former solicitor general of India   as its other members — said it would be a regressive step to introduce death penalty even when such punishment is restricted to rarest of rare cases. 
 
 According to the report, there was considerable evidence that the deterrent effect of death penalty on serious crimes was a myth. The panel referred to a submission of Working Group on Human Rights in India and UN, to underline that murder rate had declined consistently in India over the past 20 years despite a slowdown in execution of death sentences since 1980. 
 
 Taking into account views of a majority of scholars and women’s organisations etc, the committee — set up to review anti-rape law in the wake of brutal gangrape and murder of   in December 2012 — said it was not inclined to recommend introduction of death penalty in cases of aggravated forms of sexual assault in the larger interests of society, having regard to the thinking in favour of abolition of death penalty and also to avoid the argument of any sentencing arbitrariness. 
 
 The Verma panel said it had noticed that death is given only in the rarest of rare cases when alternative option of reformation and rehabilitation of the convict is unquestionably foreclosed. “While we appreciate the argument that where such offences (gangrape followed by death or persistent vegetative states) result in death, the case may also be tried under Section 302 of IPC as a ‘rarest of rare’ case, we must acknowledge that many such cases may actually fall within ambit of Section 304 since the ‘intention to kill’ may not be established,” it poined out.
 
 Agreeing that rape “undoubtedly” deserved serious punishment, the Verma committee however said there was need to grade the offences. “There are instances where the victim/survivor is still is a position from which she can, with some support from society, overcome the trauma and lead a normal life...we do not say that such a situation is less morally depraved, but the degree of injury to the person may be much less and does not warrant punishment with death,” it noted in its report submitted on January 23, 2013. 
 
 Besides recalling that death penalty had been abolished in 150 countries and that the US Supreme Court had struck down death penalty for rape as contrary to US Constitution, the committee referred to the UN Commission on Human Rights resolution dated December 18, 2007, calling upon states to “progressively restrict the use of death penalty and reduce the number of offences for which it may be imposed”. 
 
 
