GHAZIABAD:   Narendra Kashyap’s son, Sagar, was sentenced to seven years imprisonment by a local court on Thursday on charges of abetting the suicide of his wife Himanshi in April 2016. Additional district judge (I) Shashi Bhushan Pandey, however, has kept on hold the quantum of punishment to be imposed on   and his wife Devenderi till January 27, when the case will be heard again.

 The court has also imposed a fine of Rs 50,000 on Sagar, who has also been held guilty under the Arms Act for possessing the .32 bore revolver with which Himanshi had killed herself. The court has directed half of the fine amount, that is, Rs 25,000, to be paid to the family of Himanshi.
 
 A day earlier, the court had convicted Narendra Kashyap, Devenderi and Sagar under Section 306 of IPC for abetting the suicide of Himanshi, who was found dead with a gunshot wound on her head in a washroom in the Sanjay Nagar residence of the family on April 6, 2016. On Thursday, Kashyap’s lawyers pleaded for a lenient sentence on the convicts on the basis that Narendra Kashyap has a clean track record bereft of any criminal history and that his wife Devenderi is battling cancer.
 
 The ADJ court has directed Kashyap’s lawyers to present his criminal record from the local police as well as a report from the chief medical officer of   on the exact nature and degree of her illness. Any decision on decreasing the quantum of punishment will be arrived by the court after perusing these documents presented by the lawyers.
 
 “Narendra Kashyap has a clean political record and has been socially active in Ghaziabad for the past several years. He is a lawyer since 1988. He has no single instance of criminal case against him in his entire career. His wife Devenderi is battling cancer for which she is undergoing treatment. We have presented her discharge report from Yashoda Hospital. Devenderi is also looking after the upbringing of deceased Himanshi’s son who is now over three years old,” said Kashyap’s lawyer Subash Tyagi.
 
 Sagar Kashyap had married Himanshi, daughter of Hiralal Kashyap, a BSP leader in Badaun, in 2014. At the time of Himanshi’s death, Sagar was pursuing his MD degree from a private college in Ghaziabad. Himanshi is survived by a son who was aged around 18 months at the time of her death. Hiralal Kashyap and Narendra Kashyap had buried their differences after Himanshi’s death and had together joined the BJP in January 2017 just prior to the assembly elections in UP.
 
 
