RAJKOT: It’s a double whammy for thirsty citizens of chief minister Vijay Rupani’s  , where the   is expected to only worsen in the coming days.

 On one hand, Aji-1 dam, which is the main source of water supply, is not expected to last for more than three weeks, while on the other, the tanker providers are soon going to increase their rates. The high-rise buildings and residential societies in the city’s posh areas are forced to depend on water tankers to meet their daily requirement. Officials said that water in Aji-1 dam won’t last beyond March 31 even as Narmada water supply is grossly insufficient. 
 
 The tanker supply began from last week of February and residents will have to shell out more now to get this water. According to rough estimates, there are 25-30 tankers of 12,000 litres each and 10 tankers of 24,000 litres that are selling water in areas like Mavdi, Mota Mauva, Ambika township on Kalavad road, Jivrajpark, Gondal road near Kangasiyali village. Moreover, 40 to 50 tractors of 5,000 litres each and chhakkdas (three-wheelers) with capacity of 600 litres supply waters in small pockets of the city. Vajubhai Kambalia, who lives in Ambika Township that has a population of nearly 1 lakh said, “For past two years, majority of the buildings in the township are dependent on tanker water in summer. The water supplied by RMC has very less force and this supply too lasts for just 20 minutes.” 
 
 The tanker suppliers extract water from nearby farm houses like Raiya, Vajdi and Madhapar but the groundwater level is also depleting fast. At present, the price of 12,000 litre water tanker is around Rs 700 while 24,000 litre tanker costs Rs 1,400. However, after March 15, the rate is expected to rise. Bharatsinh Chudasama, who sells water in Ambika Township and Jivraj Park, said, “We are facing problems in getting water as the levels have gone down. We have to pay more in summer and demand will rise. Therefore, we will increase prices of water tanker in mid-March.”
 
 The 12,000 litre tanker will cost Rs 1,000, while 24,000 litre tanker will cost Rs 1,800-2,000 depending on distance.
 
 Though the city gets 45 million litres per day (MLD) water from Bhadar dam, people of Jetpur are staking claim to this water. Rajkot is looking at Macchhu dam to meet its peak summer requirement. Moreover, the Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) has already forwarded a request to the state government not to reduce Narmada water supply.
 
 
