KOTA: Police and district administration failed to normalise the situation in   city as tension continued on the second day on Tuesday. Large number of people, including   workers, protested at city   against the lathicharge and arrest of activists a day earlier when they were marching to perform puja at Mandhata Balaji cenotaph on   top. The protesters on Tuesday demanded release of 36 people who were arrested on Monday.

 The police, however, arrested 50 people from various places on Tuesday for pelting stones and violating Section 144 imposed in the city since Friday night and burning tires to create panic among the people. The district administration has extended ban on net services till 6 am on January 5.
 
 The hide and seek game between police and agitating groups of activists continued till Tuesday afternoon, as people pelted stones three times at police forces at Lanka Gate area of city. They burnt a police motorbike and tires at many places in the city. The markets of Bundi city remained closed for the second day. Petrol pumps and medical shops, though, remained open. The shops in Hindoli town and Panch Ki Bawari village were reportedly remained closed.
 
 Bundi district BJP president   intervened in the matter following which talks between the protesters and police officials started to resolve the matter and find a way out to release those arrested yesterday but stone pelting at police near anaj mandi on Lanka Gate Circle derailed the talks.
 
 Kota range IG Vishal Bansal had to take the command at Lanka Gate and led a march with STF personnel to maintain the law and order situation in the area.
 
 Later in the day, the agitating groups of people again started pelting stones at police force and burnt the police motorbike. Police had to restore to force to disperse the mob.
 
 People burnt tires near Girls’ College on Lanka Gate Road, Chittor Road Circle, Bypass Road, Nainwa Road.
 
 Bundi collector Shivangi Swarnkar also monitoring the situation. A team of Archeological Survey of India (ASI) from Delhi has reached Bundi to assess the historical background and facts about disputed Mandhata Balaji cenotaph on Tiger Hill and actual position about the cenotaph would be clear only after the submission of its report by ASI, the district collector said. The section 144 is already imposed in the city and people should abide by the law, she added.
 
 IG Vishal Bansal refused to commit on the situation. He did not disclose the number of people so far arrested. The internet services remained suspended as the divisional commissioner yesterday extended the time period of suspension of these services till 6 am till January 3.
 
 
