Actress  , famous for her role as Meghna in the movie 'Jaane Tu... Ya Jaane Na' and Juhi in 'Kis Kisko Pyaar Karoon', was in Lucknow sometime back. Even though Manjari, who was last seen in the movie ' ', hails from  , has an ancestral connect with UP. Belonging to the family of Rani Lakshmibai, Manjari says, "I have a strong connection with Jhansi because we belong to  's family. My mother belongs to the same   family of Jhansi ki rani. So, that's how I am connected to UP and love visiting my relatives who still live in Jhansi."
Having made her debut in   in 2004, there are only a few movies which have given Manjari recognition in the industry. Talking about it Manjari says, "I have had more of an emotional struggle in the industry. I do believe that I can work much more than what I have been doing. That's why I feel I deserve much more in the industry." Saying that her potential is yet to be tapped by Bollywood, Manjari adds, "It has been an emotional struggle but I cannot stop feeling grateful for what I have already achieved, so far. So I still have my big dreams and I know I will fulfill them, someday."
 Talking about her slow progress in the industry, the actress shares, "Though my progress has been slow in the industry, I see myself as a better actress and a grown-up person inside, now. I started my career in 2004, but 'Jaane Tu... Ya Jaane Na' in 2008 brought me in limelight. I blame myself for not pushing myself after that film because I got busy with my personal life. For a year or two after that film, I was not very focused and I had multiple commitments at that time."
 Adding further Manjari says, "It is a fact that my progress has been slow but moreover, I take it as progress. It is not negative at all. Everyone has their own journey and so do I. Nobody judged the tortoise in the race as he was slow and yet won the race with the rabbit. I think I have grown and I am in a better place today and working on my own terms and conditions."
 Speaking on the #MeToo movement, which has been trending on the internet and even at Cannes, Manjari, who herself has talked about it openly, shares, "Of course it exists in Bollywood! It is an extremely brave step where women have started sharing these incidents, be it anonymously or by revealing their identity and warning other girls to be aware of such incidents.” She adds, “We are in a very small industry where everyone knows everyone and everyone gets to work with everyone over a period of time. Most of them are the 'big' people and actors have to work with them or they will be banned if they don't listen to them. No one wants to offend anybody and if they do, they'll be boycotted. That's how the industry works. I have been a victim of it too, but the ball is always in your court and you decide which way you want to go to. The maximum is that your progress becomes slow but your talent shines eventually, with time."
 By Adnaan Rizvi
 
