For generations, many artistes have repeatedly expressed their wish to breathe their last while on stage, performing the art form they love. 

 We have also seen this in movies such as Chamayam and Kamaladalam. When Ottanthullal artiste   and Kathakali maestro   recently embraced death midway through their performance, many termed it a “demise that only the truly great are blessed with”.
 When did this concept originate and how did it become popular? Kochi Times asks doyens of Kerala’s art and literature:
 
 The origin of the concept
 Shakespeare had written in the 16th century in As You Like It:
 All the world’s a stage,
 And all the men and women merely 
 players;
 They have their exits and their entrances,
 And one man in his time plays 
 many parts…
 
 Literary critic   quotes the dramatist and says, “It shows that the concept of exiting the stage of life gracefully has been something artistes fancied ever since time immemorial, and they have expressed it in many ways. The concept is termed glorious in many ancient Indian texts too, such as the Natyasastra and even in the works of Kalidasa, from where they might have got popular among artistes. Those like the eminent Sanskrit poet and dramatist Rajasekhara and English playwright Ben Johnson have also written about the greatness of dying while performing.”
 
 That said, why is so much glory attached to it? Art connoisseur Soorya Krishnamoorthy explains, “The dream of many artistes is to remain active on stage for as long as they can. There is no retirement age for them and in some cases, their demand even increases as they age. For instance, in Kathakali and music. An artiste is like a lover, and just like how the romantic will die once the love ends, artistes will also not want to live if they can’t perform. I am talking about genuine artistes, not those who are in it for money. All the artistes I have seen nurture such a dream.”
 
 Noted actor and Kathakali artiste Ramesh Varma shares a story. “An artiste recently told us an instance about the death of Madavoor Vasudevan Nair. Apparently, when Madavoor heard about the death of Kalamandalam Geethanandan, he had said, ‘If death comes for me while on stage, don’t wipe off the colours on my face’. So, when his family was informed about his demise, they had asked not to remove the chamayam.”
 He adds, “Many dedicated artistes can’t think of a life in which they can’t perform the art they love. That’s why they wish for the state of Anayasena maranam vinadainyena jeevanam (A life without hardships and an end that is peaceful).”
 
 
 
 The world of art remembers many Malayali artistes who breathed their last while on the stage. Mankulam Vishnu Namboothiri, who died soon after he enacted Krishna in four episodes in 1981, was a master of South style Kathakali. It is said that soon after he kept down his crown, he passed away.
 Kathakali artiste FACT Padmanabhan recalls, “Allat Krishnapilla, a Kathakali artiste I knew, was performing Dussassana on stage when he died, many years ago. I remember him casually mentioning that such a death is what he too wishes for.”
 Arjunanritham artiste Kurichi P S Kumaran, Guru Gopinath, Koodiyattam artiste Margi Sathi’s husband and Kathakali sangeetham vocalist Subhramanian Potti… the world of art fondly remembers more such glorious names who had such blessed departures.
 
