GURUGRAM: A   against 150 shops constructed on agricultural land on a sector dividing road in   in   was called off on Friday after an argument between officials and local leaders. The drive was organised on orders from the deputy commissioner’s office as the shop owners did not change land use.

 Sub-divisional magistrate  , with a team of 250 government officials, including those from enforcement wing and police department, reached the spot on Friday, but allegedly some local people who were associated with political groups and villagers opposed the drive and got into an argument with officials.
 
 After an hour, officials decided to reschedule the drive. 
 
 “These shops have been built without any permission and the encroachers have lost the case in the town and country planning tribunal, which is why these have to be razed down. These shop owners have been given 10 days’ notice after which their shops will be demolished,” said district town planner, enforcement Rajendra T Sharma.
 
 Councillor Mahesh Diama, who was also present during the demolition drive, however, said, “I’m not aware of any argument. The shopkeepers have been given a few days to move.”
 
 Over the past three years, over 150 shops have come up on the agricultural land, which isn’t allowed unless the change of land use has been permitted. In 2016, officials from the department of town and country planning (DTCP) issued notices to the shopkeepers in the area , who approached the tribunal. “The tribunal asked these shopkeepers to get a change of land use to run these shops,” said Sharma. 
 
 This is not the first instance of political interference during demolition drives. Officials from various departments have earlier complained of political pressure.
 
 According to sources, on occasions, there are chances of scuffle as well. On Friday, the demolition team had arranged for ambulances and water cannons to tackle such incidents.
 
 TOI had earlier reported that MCG officials had also complained of political meddling stopping them from taking action against in illegal constructions and encroachers. 
 
 Sources in the corporation said that whenever they issued demolition notices to a section of encroachers, they got calls from ministers of the state, or in some cases, even the Centre.
 
 
