KOCHI: Sensing that losing connect with the common man is the biggest threat before the   in Kerala, a decision was taken at   state conference to take up a slew of social welfare activities. The campaigns, most of which will complement the initiatives of   being implemented by the government, will range from providing houses to the homeless to organizing grassrootlevel campaigns against communalism.

 CPM will construct 2,000 houses for the homeless this year. Each local committee will construct a home for one homeless family. The state conference suggested that the party should take up projects with public participation in tune with the vision envisaged by Nava   Mission. CPM will emulate literacy mission and people’s planning programme models to expand the reach of projects conceived under the mission.
 
 To support  , the party will take up cleaning and rejuvenation of ponds and rivulets. “The aim is to rejuvenate 2,000 ponds or rivulets. We will also take up a campaign to protect and clean rivers. A river in each district will be cleaned and rejuvenated,” said  .
 
 Each area committee will adopt one government hospital and ensure that infrastructure facilities are in place there; 209 hospitals will benefit from this decision. Area committees will adopt government schools and augment infrastructure facilities.
 
 The palliative care movement, which has already been taken up by the party, will be expanded and 2,000 palliative care centres will be established. Also, 20,000 party workers will be given training in palliative care.
 
 Expanding organic farming to all villages will be another campaign.
 
 Each party family will be asked to lead by example by setting up a vegetable farm in its backyard. Party units will take up initiative to cultivate vegetables in abandoned farmlands.
 
 “Party will also take up the issues of transgender community with more initiatives. Another project is to train youth to face   exams and interviews,” said Balakrishnan.
 
 All branches have been directed to plan home visits every six months.
 
