CHANDIGARH: Why is there so much traffic chaos during the arrival and departure of the   from the Chandigarh   station? Why aren’t the authorities making more space for parking at the station when land is available? Why is there no improvement in the speed of the Shatabdis from New Delhi, even after the double-lane project is completed?

 These questions were raised by the passengers amenities committee members of the parliamentary committee ( ) during the meeting with the northern railway general manager   held in Chandigarh on Sunday. 
 
 Prem  , member of Parliament from Anandpur Sahib, and one of the member of the PAC said in the meeting they gave a suggestion to increase the parking space at the station three times as the land is available at the station. He said he also raised an issue with the officials that the Shatabdi, which is supposed to reach the city station in 3.5 hours from New Delhi, still chugs in an hour late. He asked why the authorities are not acting to get it streamlined for the convenience of the passengers.
 
 He also asked the officials about the old coaches in Shatabdi, which are yet to be replaced with the new ones and enquired about their status.
 
 Members of PAC, during the meeting, asked the officials that in how many trains have they installed the bio-toilets for which the ministry have released huge amount of fund during the last financial year.
 
 Responding to this, the northern railway   informed the members that they are in the process of installing the bio-toilets and are trying to complete the task of installing them in all trains by Match 31, 2019. 
 
 The other issue that was raised in the meeting was how the staff will monitor the cleanliness of the bio-toilets. On being asked how regularly will the staff be doing it, the officials said the staff will be cleaning them regularly to maintain hygiene. PAC wanted to know about the awareness of the passengers about the bio-toilets to which the officials said that they are putting posters and stickers in coaches and at various locations in stations.
 
 Meanwhile, the members of PAC were also given a demonstration on the bio-toilets. The top brass of all the railway departments also came for this meeting with the PAC members.
 
 
