PATNA:   teams from at least five different places have reached Patna to take the most wanted Subodh Singh and his six other associates on transit remand. They were arrested by Special Task Force (STF) of Bihar police in the city on Friday night.

 Sources on Sunday said Jaipur, Nagpur, Barrackpore, Howrah and Asansol police, led by their senior officers, reached the state capital on Sunday to take Subodh and others on transit remand. STF sources said Subodh’s was one of the most organized gangs in north India.
 
 “These are among few places from where the gang had looted gold, including from the branches of Muthoot Finance and Manappuram Gold, in the last three to four years,” STF sources said.
 
 While Subodh, his lawyer Neeraj Mishra and Prashant Kumar Singh were arrested from Jalalpur City road under the Rupaspur police station area, four other associates were nabbed from flat number 201 of Pushpanjali Enclave at Ramnagri Mor under the Rajeev Nagar police station area in the city.
 
 Those arrested from the flat were identified as Rajeev Kumar Singh alias Pullu Singh, Shashank Singh, Thakur Navrang Kumar alias Jacky and Sanjeev Jha. “Sanjeev had jumped off the second floor of the apartment during raid to evade arrest. He received serious injuries and was rushed to Patna Medical College and Hospital for treatment,” sources said.
 
 An official said the gang had looted over 133kg of gold from Jaipur in Rajasthan, Nagpur in Maharashtra and Barrackpore, Asansol and Kolkata in West Bengal. “The gang is also wanted in Odhisa, Chhattisgarh and Tamil Nadu in gold and bank loot cases and they are in touch with us,” STF sources said, adding the court would decide whom to hand over Subodh and his gang members.
 
 STF personnel were stunned when they recovered a bulletproof jacket and a metal detector from the gang during raids. “Altogether 16kg of looted gold, Rs3.41 lakh, a China-made pistol, two regular firearms, a country-made firearm, 27 live cartridges, three two-wheelers, a car and nine cellphones were seized from their possession during the raids,” sources said.
 
 “The gang looted 27kg of gold from a non-banking firm in Jaipur on July 21 last year. In December 2016, they had looted 28kg gold from Barrackpore. Later, they looted around 28kg gold ornaments from another non-banking firm in Nagpur last year. On December 23 last year, the gang targeted another firm in Kolkata but the loot bid was foiled,” STF sources said, adding Subodh had fled after the Nagpur loot to Kathmandu where he sold a huge amount of looted gold ornaments.
 
 Sources said Subodh and his associates had looted four banks in Chhattisgarh and three banks in and around Mumbai. “He was in jail for five years after Raipur police of Chhattisgarh had arrested Subodh in Ranchi. After coming out of jail in 2015, he got involved in looting only gold firms,” a source said.
 
 STF sources said the modus operandi of Subodh and his associates was to loot banks and other financial installations outside Bihar and return to the home state for shelter. “The gang was hiding in Patna for at least four months. STF was tracking their movement for at least one month,” sources said.
 
 
