NAGPUR: Indian Railways has given in-principle approval to Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Ltd’s (MahaMetro) plan to run electric multiple units (EMU) between Nagpur and four nearby towns— Bhandara,  , Katol and Ramtek— as local trains. Also, Railways has cleared the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s ( ) proposal to construct a new road between Wanjari Nagar water tank and Ajni railway overbridge (ROB). Part of it will be underground to spare buildings already constructed on the land.

 Union minister and city MP Nitin Gadkari held a meeting with railway minister Piyush Goyal at Transport Bhavan, New Delhi, on Monday. Municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal, MahaMetro managing director Brijesh Dixit and other officials were also present.
 
 
  
 
 Dixit and sources from Gadkari’s office confirmed to TOI that Goyal accepted and gave in-principle approval to Gadkari’s initiative for running EMUs between city and four towns on the lines of locals being operated in major cities like Mumbai, Chennai etc.
 
 Dixit said a memorandum of understanding will be signed between the Indian Railways and MahaMetro for planning and execution of the project. “MahaMetro is confident of operating the services successfully. Lot of things are required to be worked out after MoU for beginning the services,” he said.
 
 Sources from Gadkari’s office added MahaMetro planned to run three-coach EMUs on four routes starting from Nagpur railway station. “Plan is to run four EMUs on each route. Two will head towards the town and two in opposite direction. MahaMetro will use existing railway tracks and infrastructure of Railways to operate the services. Other issues like timings, profit sharing, special platform etc will be discussed after signing the MoU,” sources said.
 
 MahaMetro has estimated project cost at over Rs 100 crore and Gadkari is likely to bring the funds from the central government. Gadkari had discussed the project with MahaMetro officials on February 27.
 
 Mudgal said the proposal to construct new 30-metre wide road between Wanjari Nagar water tank to Ajni ROB was also cleared in the meeting. “NMC has been asked to construct an underpass tunnel near Railways’ school. We are likely to get possession of 17,400 sq metres land from Railways in next 3-4 days for the road. We will also construct a compound wall along the school’s stretch to ensure safety of students. Construction of road will prove beneficial for hundreds of people travelling between South Nagpur and West,” he said.
 
 Gadkari also urged Goyal to implement the MoU signed between the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, Indian Railways and Government of Maharashtra for expediting the bridges planned on railway lines across the state.
 
 
 
 
 Distance: City to Bhandara (63km), Wardha (77km), Katol (60) and Ramtek (49km)
 
 The Plan: Railways is operating passenger train from city to Ramtek and to Gondia via Bhandara. There are no locals from city to any town as of now. Plan is to run three-coach EMUs to these towns with four EMUs on each route. Average speed of city to Ramtek passenger is 27 kms per hour while that of Gondia passenger is 50 kms per hour. Plan is to run EMUs at 120 kms per hour. EMUs will be air conditioned
 
 Arrangements with Railways: MahaMetro will use existing tracks, signalling, platform etc of Railways for the services. Profit sharing or charges to be paid to Railways will be decided after MoU between the two entities. It is also likely Railways will withdraw Ramtek passenger. Ramtek and Bhandara routes fall under SECR and while Wardha and Katol are under Central Railway
 
 Who Will Benefit: Large number of people travel between city and these towns. People from Katol travel through MSRTC and city buses while people from other three towns through MSRTC buses and trains. Students, working men, women, farmers and milk producers who bring their products to sell to the city, patients, others like those coming for shopping, recreation etc will benefit
 
 
 
 
 Road: There is a 12-metre road from Wanjari Nagar water tank to cement road connecting Ajni ROB to Medical square. The road is winding one and passes through Railway quarters. There is provision of developing a 30-metre road directly from Ajni ROB to Wanjari Nagar water tank. The land for it belongs to Railways. It is a nazul road and will be owned by the state government. Railways’ permission is required for construction. Railways created a controversy by constructing toilet for its school on the land meant for the road last month so as to kill the road plan. NMC issued a notice to the Railways directing it to stop construction
 
 Solution: NMC has accepted to construct a tunnel of around 400 or 500-metres at the stretch where the school is situated. Tunnel will prevent from threat to students. Also, the NMC agreed to construct compound wall at the stretch where the school and Railways’ quarters are situated
 
 Hurdles: Tunnel with vastly increase project cost manifold.
 
 Benefits: People of South Nagpur and patients going to RST Cancer Hospital and Super Speciality will benefit. They will get a wide road and will have to travel lower distance
 
 
