CHANDIGARH: In a twist to the ongoing petition of the Haryana government seeking quashing of the President’s order dropping the chargesheet against whistleblower   (IFS) officer  , UP cadre senior   officer   has pleaded before the Punjab and Haryana high court to hear him out before deciding the issue.

 Thakur, who had ealier accused former UP chief minister   of threatening him over phone, asserted that the issue before the high court here had vital implication for all-India services (AIS) officers, specifically regarding their disciplinary matters and departmental chargesheets.
 
 Known for activism about bureaucratic accountability, Thakur decided to become intervener on the issue after Justice P B Bajanthri of the HC, in his February 7 orders, asked the Centre to explain if the Union of India could interfere in a disciplinary matter against an AIS officer posted in a state, in between initiation of disciplinary action till final order is passed in the disciplinary proceedings under the All India Service Rules, 1969.
 
 A 1992-batch IPS officer of the UP cadre, Thakur said that he came to know about the order through media reports.
 
 Posted as inspector general of police (IGP) at Lucknow, Thakur submitted that many honest and sincere AIS officers had suffered tremendously at the hands of unscrupulous politicians because of their refusal to follow illegal orders, and departmental chargesheets, suspension and other departmental proceedings had been a convenient tool in the hands of state-level politicians to harass such honest officers and put their entire career at risk.
 
 Claiming to be a sufferer who could get some relief only with the intervention of the Centre, Thakur has submitted that founding fathers of the Indian Constitution had anticipated such a situation and accordingly set norms to insulate the AIS officers from such unwarranted pressure.
 
 “They not only gave the AIS a constitutional status but also made it a subject matter of the Union List, making it totally out of bounds for state governments. Accordingly, All India Services Act, 1951, was promulgated. I should be heard in this case because the questions substantially in issue in the present case shall have a direct bearing to even other officers of the AIS, irrespective of their state of allocation or place of posting,” Thakur has submitted.
 
 The matter would now come up for hearing on Tuesday.
 
 In this case, Haryana has been contending that the Union ministry of environment and forest (MoEF) had illegally constituted a committee that had given clean chit to Chaturvedi and indicted the state government officials. It has been contended by Haryana that the committee had submitted a report casting aspersions against its officials without giving them any opportunity of hearing. The state has been contending that the orders of the central government were unconstitutional and violated the principles of  
 
 
