NEW DELHI: While most 13 year olds in the capital are trying their hands at different sports and extra-curricular activities,  , a   from Gurugram, has different   — to   of   in  . 

 The student, a volunteer at NGO Chintan that works on waste segregation and environmental solutions, has alone phased out nearly 5 lakh straws from restaurants and eateries across NCR in a month.
 
 Mukarji, who was given plastic straws as a volunteering project by the NGO in March, soon drew plans to target hotel and eatery chains. He drafted a research paper and a letter to distribute among different food establishments. “I started approaching hotels and restaurants nearby with a letter, asking them to pledge not to use plastic straws anymore. I also showed them my presentation on harmful effects of plastic on environment and their impact on both water and soil,” he said.
 
 Mukarji not just campaigns against the use of plastic straws, but also provides eco-friendly alternatives to each establishment. Eventually, he started to get signed acknowledgements from places promising to switch to better options. “As many as 4,88,600 straws have been replaced with eco-friendly paper ones at the places I approached. We calculated the figure by getting an annual estimate of the number of straws they would consume. The idea is to replace or remove at least 10 lakh straws by year-end and possibly achieve more,” said Mukarji.
 
 He said he has already received acknowledgements from Metropolitan hotel in New Delhi, Delhi Golf Club, Di Ghent Café in Gurugram and Clarke’s hotel in Agra, among others.
 
 Every year, over eight million tonnes of plastic waste flows into oceans. These wastes take 500 to 1,000 years to degrade completely. The NGO explained that the straws are generally ingested by marine animals and birds that can get stuck in the digestive tract of animals leading to their deaths.
 
 “We are trying to educate people about the problem of waste segregation and better environmental practices. This is a good example of what difference one individual can make,” said Chitra Mukherjee, head of programmes, operations at Chintan.
 
 
