When the episode of   starts we see   rushing inside the academy to find Sahil hanging from the ropes after consuming a lot of medicine which makes him behave in a strange manner. Everybody is telling him to come down, including Naira.

  and Devyani see Kirti and think that she has a lot to learn. Naitik is seen trying skateboarding. Naksh sees this and comes to his rescue. This way, Naitik explains to him that Naksh too has to teach Kirti in a patient manner.
 
 Dadi too wants to meet Kartik. She learns that   went to drop Naira and hasn't returned home yet. She gets anxious. We see Kartik coming back to the dance academy and meeting Naira who asks him why has he come back. He saw her rushing off to the academy in a hurry and hence got worried. Naira says she is fine.
 
 While Kartik is there, his clients wait for him and the business suffers. Manish is very upset.
  
  
 At the house, Dadi is also very angry regarding Kartik's behaviour. She says that she doesn't want Kartik and Manish's relation to get spoiled because of Naira. The kids come rushing to her and show everybody a video of Kartik and Naira at the academy after they successfully rescued Sahil.
 
 Manish angrily throws the phone. Suwarna tries to console him. She says that maybe Kartik came and went back. Dadi agrees with her and says that this was all Naira's fault. Manish also agrees with her and says that Naira's influence has spoiled Kartik. He says that Naira acts so good but she is very cunning. 
 
 Kartik comes back and tries to explain what happened there. He says that he didn't know about the meeting happening. Manish gets angry and says that nothing can be more important than the meeting. He leaves the room.
 
 We see Naitik at a restaraunt with a lady. He says sorry and says it was too late to say something now. The lady says that she has been trying to convince him for several months. They hold hands.
 
 Naira sees Kartik. She says that it was all her fault. He shouldn't have come with her to the dance academy. Kartik says that he was hurt by Manish's words but says he cannot repair the past. He says that he will get the company deal in any way possible. Naira says that she has full faith in him.
 
  
