KOCHI: In the wake of reports of flex boards posing threat to pedestrians and motorists,   has mooted a proposal to earmark certain areas for putting up such publicity material. Political parties, religious organizations and non-government agencies (NGOs) alone will be allowed to erect flex boards and billboards.

 
 As a prelude a meeting of leaders of different political parties would be convened for identifying apt locations. “As of now, flex boards and billboards are allowed around the city. It can be seen on trees and electric poles in the streets. The situation need to change,” said M  , councillor from  , who introduced the idea. “As we all are representatives of political parties, there would be pressure on us against banning flex boards and billboards altogether. What we can do is impose certain restrictions,” Aristotle said.
 
 Certain areas in the city can be identified where flex boards can be allowed, he said. “Currently, what happens is flex boards and banners put up by political parties and other organizations would remain there months after conclusion of the event. If certain areas area earmarked, they will have to remove such boards after the event,” he said.
 
 Shiny Mathew, chairperson, standing committee for town planning, said implementing the proposal would take some time. “At first, we will have to remove all the flex boards from different parts of the city. Though we made some efforts in this regard, the local fund audit department raised objection for removing the flex boards spending corporation funds. We had to entrust a contractor for the same,” said  .
 
 The corporation has now asked its health department to remove the flex boards and banners using own trucks and labourers. “They will soon start measures to remove the flex boards. After that we will have to identify areas where such publicity material can be put up, following norms. A meeting of representatives of political parties and others also will have to be convened before allotting dedicated area for erecting flex boards,” she said.
 
 
