Surat: Three minor kids, along with 14 women, were kept in the lock-up of Limbayat police station from Monday night to Tuesday morning. The women, who had made a video of their detention, submitted a memorandum to city police commissioner demanding action against the cops who were responsible for their traumatic experience. 

 The women had gone to register a complaint against a group of local residents at Limbayat police station on Monday night alleging an attack on a woman. The other group also reached the police station and there was an argument between the two. It should be noted that a number of hardcore criminals live in the communally-sensitive Limbayat area of the city. 
 
 “Instead of taking action against those who had attacked a woman, police put all the women in our group in the lock-up along with the kids. They did not give us water. We could only call our family members after 2am and they brought us water. We were released at around 8:30am after registration of complaints of both the parties,” alleged Rajeshree Ansari, one of the women who was put in the lock-up.
 
 The video shot by the women inside the lock-up also shows some kids. “The women behaved badly with police and hence we were forced to take action against them. They started attacking police and the other group and so were put in the lock-up,” said N D Solanki, police inspector, Limbayat police station.
 
 “The women told police that there was no one to take care of their kids at home and hence they wanted to keep the kids with them. This was the reason for allowing the kids to be locked up with them,” said Harikrishan Patel, joint commissioner of police, sector I.
 
 “The women made a representation to me and I have ordered an inquiry into the incident. I was told by the police inspector that the women were pushed inside the lock-up by the other group and that their behaviour was abusive,” city police commissioner Satish Sharma said.
 
 The group in the lock-up alleged that one of the women with them was thrashed by the parents of a young man when she went to inform them about his rash driving. The young man had rammed his scooter into the woman’s kid.
 
 
