PATNA: Science enthusiasts would soon be able to see ‘Science On A Sphere’ at Shrikrishna   in the city from the first week of March. It is a unique spherical projection system which projects high-resolution video on a suspended globe rather than a flat screen with the aim of better representing global phenomena.

 It uses state-of-the-art technology of projecting contents from multiple projectors on a central 1.8m diameter spherical sphere. This is a first of its kind technology to be used in Bihar where four projectors will show a high-resolution seamless video on topics such as atmosphere, ocean, land and astronomy, among others, on the passively suspended sphere. Each of the four projectors is responsible for one quadrant of the spherical screen. The surface of the sphere is fibreglass coated with paint. The facility is available in Bengaluru, Kolkata, Nagpur, Guwahati, Mumbai and Delhi science centres.
 
 “The hardware and Linux-based software has been imported from Germany. As of now, Patna science centre has 1050 data sets (catalogues). We keep downloading new data. If someone wants to see real-time images such as of tectonic plate movements during an earthquake that happened recently, we can download these images within 4-5 hours through satellites of National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Nasa) as well as National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) orbiting the earth,” said Shrikrishna Science Centre curator Ram Swaroop.
 
 The centre has 75 seats. The show will be charged and the ticket amount is yet not decided. Swaroop said the visual images projected on the sphere are how the Earth would appear from a distance of 12,800km in space. The centre usually updates its data catalogue after every 6-7 days. The data catalogue also includes images of other celestial bodies such as Mars, Mercury and the Sun.
 
 “The aim is to represent the global phenomena better. Satellite images of atmospheric storms, climate change and ocean temperature are projected on the sphere which will help explain various environmental processes. This will not only give young children a chance to learn more effectively about astronomical, geological and geographical issues concerning our Earth but will also give them an understanding of the surface of other planets such as Mars as well as rover landings. Visitors can also see solar flares occurring on the surface of the Sun,” Swaroop added.
 
 
