The Indian festival,   is celebrated for nine nights. This holy festival celebrates the victory of the goddess Shakti over evil. The nine-day festival falls on the nine auspicious days as the lunar calendar of Hinduism. Each day of the festival holds a signicatess and relates to the goddess Durga's various incarnations. 

 The 
 is known as
 and even
 . This day represents intelligence and peace. The story goes that due to the goddess' austerities in the forests of the Himalayas, her complexion got very dark and she turned black. However, Shiva cleansed her body with the water of the Ganges and this is how her body restored its beauty and glow.
  is pink as pink denotes optimism and anticipation.
 
 The goddess Mahagauri is worshipped on the eighth day of Navratri. The goddess was known for her fair beauty and is compared with conch, the moon and white flowers of kunda. On this day of worship, offerings of coconut, halwa, puri and black channa are made. The special Ashtami food is served to young girls and they are worshipped as goddesses on this occasion.
 
  
  
 
 The ritual is celebrated by inviting nine young girls to one's home where they are offered the special Ashtami food made at home. For this ritual, the girls are worshipped by a tilak on the forehead and a red moli is tied on the wrists. Offerings of food, clothes are also made. The nine names that represent the goddesses are:
 
 1. Kumarika
 2. Trimurti
 3. Kalyani
 4. Rohini
 5. Kali
 6. Chandika
 7. Shanbhavi
 8. Durga
 9. Subhadra 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Ya Devi Sarvabhuteshu Maa Mahagauri Rupena Samsthita। 
 Namastasyai Namastasyai Namastasyai Namo Namah॥ 
 
 
 
 Om Devi MahagauryaiNamah॥
 
 Shwete Vrishesamarudha Shwetambaradhara Shuchih।
 Mahagauri Shubham Dadyanmahadeva Pramodada॥
 
 Ya Devi Sarvabhuteshu Maa Mahagauri Rupena Samsthita। 
 Namastasyai Namastasyai Namastasyai Namo Namah॥
 
 Vande Vanchhita Kamarthe Chandrardhakritashekharam।
 Simharudha Chaturbhuja Mahagauri Yashasvinim॥
 Purnandu Nibham Gauri Somachakrasthitam Ashtamam Mahagauri Trinetram।
 Varabhitikaram Trishula Damarudharam Mahagauri Bhajem॥
 Patambara Paridhanam Mriduhasya Nanalankara Bhushitam।
 Manjira, Hara, Keyura, Kinkini, Ratnakundala Manditam॥
 Praphulla Vandana Pallavadharam Kanta Kapolam Trailokya Mohanam।
 Kamaniyam Lavanyam Mrinalam Chandana Gandhaliptam॥
 
 Sarvasankata Hantri Tvamhi Dhana Aishwarya Pradayanim।
 Jnanada Chaturvedamayi Mahagauri Pranamamyaham॥
 Sukha Shantidatri Dhana Dhanya Pradayanim।
 Damaruvadya Priya Adya Mahagauri Pranamamyaham॥
 Trailokyamangala Tvamhi Tapatraya Harinim।
 Vadadam Chaitanyamayi Mahagauri Pranamamyaham॥
 
 Omkarah Patu Shirsho Maa, Him BijamMaa, Hridayo।
 Klim Bijam Sadapatu Nabho Griho Cha Padayo॥
 Lalatam Karno Hum Bijam Patu Mahagauri Maa Netram Ghrano।
 Kapota Chibuko Phat Patu Swaha Maa Sarvavadano॥ 
 
  
  
 
