JAIPUR: The state has made elaborate arrangements for   for Teachers ( ) 2018 which will be held on Sunday.

 According to reports, RBSE rearranged some centres at the eleventh hour which sparked chaos among aspirants. Around 10 lakh candidates will appear for 35,000 posts. This is touted as the biggest examination in the state. The North Western Railways is running two special trains from Udaipur to   and   to Jaipur to ease the rush. While, the RSRTC has already started extra trips for the aspiring candidates.
 
  
  
 
 The total number of aspirants is 9.8 lakh including 5.2 lakh women and 4.6 lakh men. Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education is conducting the examination at 2,253 centres. All centres will be in the reach of CCTVs, jamer and videographer. Megha Chaudhary, coordinator of the examination, has advised the aspirants to appear at the centres an hour before the examination to avoid any inconvenience. “Candidates are not allowed to carry watch, chain, earrings, finger rings, lockets, purse and handbags. I urge all the aspirants to cooperate with the security which is meant for free and fair exams,” said Chaudhary. The RSRTC has started extra trips to ferry aspirants from Saturday morning. Sudhir Bhati, public relations officer of RSRTC, says that depots across the state have been directed to run extra trips as and when required to ease the rush of students.
 
 Tarun Jain, chief public relations officer of NWR, says that a special train will depart at 12.20 am from Udaipur and will arrive in Ajmer at 7.10 am. “The same train will leave from Ajmer at 5:30 pm on Sunday and will arrive in Udaipur at 1:25 am. This train will have 10 general coaches along with two coaches for guards,” said Jain.
 
 Similarly, the other special train from Jaipur—Rewari will depart from Jaipur at 6:5 pm on Sunday to arrive in Rewari at 10:15 pm. The same train will leave Rewari on Monday at 3.50 am and will arrive at Rewari at 7.50 am. The NWR has directed the Railway Police Force to ensure that no aspirant or any other passenger travels atop a train or boards the reserved coaches. 
 
 In an unusual move, several socio religious bodies have come forward offering facilities like free stay and refreshments to the aspirants of their caste and religions.
 
 
