LUDHIANA: Moving a step ahead, civic officials are planning to declare Model Gram under Block 26 as model block, where most of the properties have been tagged with unique identity number plates. After this step, people in this block will get each facility connected with their UID numbers, and at one single click, they will be able to trace their property tax returns, water supply and sewerage dues, and other services under the municipal corporation. This block has been selected on a trial basis, followed by which other blocks will be considered, and work to install the UID numbers will also pick up pace.

 The installation of UID number plates had started from Block 26 in Ward No.49 in June 2017, and after that, some other areas like Ghumar Mandi, Model House, Atam Nagar, Feroze Gandhi Market, Maharaj Nagar, Model Gram, Model House, Sarabha Nagar, Harnam Nagar, Kochar Market, Shastri Nagar, and Pratap Colony are also covered with the plates. But the department wants to take a trial from one block, and then gradually the entire city can be covered.
 
 In Block 26, total identified properties are 1,958, and   received booking for 1,006 plates, which were installed as well. The officials matched the record of these UID plates with the property tax returns filed, and 802 people paid the tax. Interestingly, for water supply and sewerage dues, 1,096 people are in MC records. When people from this block visit the MC office for any type of work, they will just to have to tell their UID number to officials, and the entire record will be at one click. Residents will be able to get services like birth and death certificate, issuance of TS-1, licence, and any other type of service provided by MC.
 
 While giving information, MC superintendent   said they had generated UID numbers with the aim of keeping the records of every property in the city, and instead of issuing separate numbers to one property, people will get one number. He said they would issue a password and log in to residents when they get their phone numbers registered with MC, and their UID numbers will get connected with other MC records on their name.
 
 ALL ABOUT UID NUMBER PLATES
 
 The UID number is an 18-digit number which comprises zone number, block number, road ID, property ID, and property sub-ID, but on this number plate, only a five-digit property number will be written, and the rest of the numbers are for official records. UID number plates will give a single identity to any property.
 
 Though the department wants to now connect each record of residents with the UID number, the slow pace of installation of number plates is a cause of concern. The department has received data of only 1.5 lakh properties against a total of four lakh properties from   Remote Sensing Centre (PRSC) due to payment issues.
 
 Moreover, people do not show response to UID number plates. In Block 26, when these plates were installed, area councillor   had helped MC officials in collecting the money. Therefore now, officials want to take help of councillors from other wards as well for making it popular among residents, so that it could be implemented in the city. 
 
 
