JAIPUR: The general administration department of the Rajasthan government has sought legal opinion from principal secretary of legal department on the law allowing government bungalow to former chief ministers for life long use in the light of recent   order scrapping similar provision in Uttar Pradesh.

 
 Under the Rajasthan Ministers Salaries (Amendment) Act 2017, the former chief ministers who had served an uninterrupted five years in office would be eligible for a government bungalow of his/her choice anywhere in the state with the perks and facilities of a cabinet minister for life.
 
 In the object and reasons for the legislation said, “For last some time the former Chief Ministers of Rajasthan are being provided, by executive orders of the State Government, certain facilities in addition to the pension and facilities available to them as a former member of the  . These facilities are intended to be as a part of the pension benefits for their past services as a Chief Minister. It is deemed proper to give the aforesaid executive orders of the State Government statutory backing.”
 
 The beneficiaries of the new legislation are chief minister   and former chief minister Ashok Gehlot. Gehlot, who was allotted a bungalow in the Civil Lines, in a letter to the general administration department had asked the government to clarify its position for bungalow to former CMs in the wake of the SC order.
 
 The legislation has evoked protest from the civil society and even some of the   legislators like Ghan Shyam Tiwari raised objections but were swept aside. Senior journalist Milap Chand Dandia filed a PIL in the high court challenged the ‘illegal and arbitrary legislation’ in the high court. The high court had issued notice to the government and the matter is slated for hearing in the high court on May 28.
 
 He said “the legislation smacks or arbitrariness and authoritarianism. Earlier the state government in an illegal way allotted a government bungalow to a former governor  .” He was forced vacate the bungalow following a high court order on a PIL by Dandia himself.
 
 Rebel BJP MLA Ghan Shyam Tiwari who had relentlessly launched a campaign against the legislation had also petitioned the state Lokayukta and state governor alleged that the legislation was an attempt by the CM to continue occupying her present residence of 13-Civil Lines. “Despite an official CM residence, 8 Civil Lines, the chief minister has not shifted to the official residence but has renovated the present bungalow with enormous expenditure, he said. He said the legislation was brought in to make it a permanent residence for her.
 
