Every time surfers flocked the   beach and spent several hours there, catching the waves,  , a youngster from the fishing community in the area, would watch them closely from the shore, badly wishing that he could try it at least once. But neither did he have access to a surfing board nor the money to buy one for himself. That was eight years ago.
Today, he has earned a name for himself and represents the country in international surfing and paddling championships. Last Sunday, he came first in 6K race in   held in Phuket. He completed the paddling race in 42.35 minutes. “This is my first gold in an international event. Earlier, I had participated in World SUP in Fiji and Denmark in 2016 and 2017, respectively. Last year, I also took part in Singapore Open. I have one more 6K race this Sunday as part of the Thailand SUP Challenges 2018, and it will be held in Patong,” he elaborates.
 Looking back, he says, surfing has brought about a big change in his life. “I’ve studied only till Class V. After that, I took up fishing, like everyone else in our area. I was introduced to surfing by Murthy, who’s quite well-known for popularising the sport in Kovalam among the fishing community. He’s the one who first gave me a surf board. I picked up the game quite fast, and in no time, started taking part in several national championships. In 2015, I was crowned the champion at the Asian Surfing Championship held in Orissa. There was a time I couldn’t even afford to go to Mahabalipuram from Kovalam for surfing. Back then, I would dream about surfing in Pondicherry and Kerala. Today, I am fortunate enough to surf and paddle in beaches around the world. What more can I ask for? Thanks to my sponsor, Arun Vasu of TT Group and Covelong Point Surfing Team,” 
 says Sekar.
 Now, his eyes are on the World SUP in Brazil later this year. “This time, I am determined to win a medal for the country. I’ve been training really hard for that. Every alternate month I go for my gym training to Bangalore. Of course, surfing and paddling are good forms of fitness exercises. But to perform at this level, I must be at my best in terms of fitness. My fitness training lasts eight hours daily, and includes cycling and rowing. And when I am in Chennai, I paddle for two hours every morning and evening,” he says.
 
