HYDERABAD: A flyover proposed at Kukatpally `Y’ Junction under strategic road development plan (SRDP) may face a major hurdle in land acquisition.

 Works pertaining to soil test, designs for flyover, and demarcation of the properties to be affected have already been completed. The government now needs to acquire land for the project. With stiff resistance from property owners, the government is unable to acquire land. The project has been pending for over a year now. 
  
 Businessmen, who will lose properties, said they had been doing trade in the area for the last 50 years. They said they would lose their source of livelihood if their shops were demolished. The foundation for the project was laid in August last year by municipal minister  . Soon after the traders formed themselves into an association to mount pressure on the government.
 
 Their main demands are reduction in the proposed road width from 200 feet to 150 feet, calculation of compensation on the basis of square feet acquired, revision of land rates by the Registration and   and financial assistance to tenants and employees.
 
 “We have represented our demands to the chief city planner, GHMC. We are also holding meetings of shopkeepers, property owners and employees frequently. Soon we will come out with a plan of action” L Sridhar, secretary, Balanagar Land Owners and Merchants’ Association, told STOI. He warned that the association would intensify the agitation if the demands were not accepted.
 
 When contacted,  , assistant city planner, Kukatpally, said town   had served notices on property owners twice. “We have also demarcated the extent of land needed for road widening,” he added.
 
 He said about 140 property owners had agreed for road widening up to 150 metres. The business in the area will go up several fold once the flyover is constructed and the road widened.
 
 A garment shop owner Kamal Agarwal said the government should rethink on the project and reduce the proposed width of the road from 200 to 150 metres.T Ashok, who sells watches, said the road widening would affect the business of all the traders in the area. He said he had been running the shop for the last three decades.
 
