CHANDIGARH: It’s been more than four months since the report prepared by the committees formed to inspect unrecognised schools was submitted to the  . According to the report, out of 65 schools, which applied for recognition, the committees have recommended that only seven schools fulfil the norms needed for recognition. 

 However, the education department is yet to take any step towards the closure of the remaining unrecognised schools in Chandigarh and shift students to government schools, thus putting the future of children in these unrecognised schools at stake. 
 
 This despite the fact that three months ago, one untoward incident took place when a girl studying in an unrecognised school in   was severely injured in the head after she fell down from the first floor of a residential house, where the school was located.
 
 Now, it will not be an easy task for the department to carry out the procedure. The department first needs to shift the students studying in these unrecognised schools. According to the report prepared and submitted by the committees, the education department was to shut down more than 57 unrecognised schools having more than 15,000 students. TOI had reported about the same.
 
 In the report, the committees mentioned the anomalies in the schools, whether the school can be considered for recognition or not and suggested names of nearby government schools in which the children studying in these schools could be shifted.
 
 However, only a handful of government schools offer a scope of further enrolment. In areas like Manimajra, Mauli Jagran, Hallomajra and Industrial Area, no government school was suggested, which could adjust the children from unrecognised schools of these areas as they were already overcrowded. None of the schools in these areas was recommended for granting recognition.
 
 These areas house maximum number of unrecognised schools in Chandigarh and have around 12,000 students, out of a total of around 18,000 students studying in unrecognised schools.
 
 It was after TOI had reported about the submission of the report, that the UT education department had assigned a team to start inspecting the seven recommended schools.
 
 The present district education officer   has been inspecting the schools. But the task has not been completed yet. Talking to TOI, Kaur said, “We are working on it. We haven’t inspected all the schools but most of the schools have been inspected.”
 
 
