KOLKATA: News of   in various cities, caused by a government decision to replace currency notes of Rs 2,000 denomination with those of Rs 200, sparked fears of a crisis in Kolkata and elsewhere in the state. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s remark that the situation reminded one of demonetisation further accentuated the anxiety. The subsequent rush to withdraw money led to many ATMs running dry, heralding a crisis that bank officials said, would otherwise not have happened.

 Six out of seven ATMs in Kolkata were on Tuesday afternoon dispensing cash and there was no shortage in sight. But anxiety was stoked by TV news reports on the cash shortage in other cities. “Seeing reports of ATMs running out of cash in several states. Big notes missing. Reminder of Demonetisation days. Is there a Financial Emergency going on in the country?” a tweet by the CM heightened the concerns. Soon, queues began to build up outside ATMs.
 
 
 There are 12,000 ATMs in Bengal, of which 3,000 are in Kolkata. State Bank of India and HDFC Bank sources said around 86% ATMs in Kolkata were dispensing cash in Tuesday noon. Kolkata was among the top cities in cash dispensation with the situationbeing better in only Chandigarh and Thiruvananthapuram. Hyderabad, Bhubaneswar and Patna were at the bottom of the rung.
 
 At Jadavpur in south Kolkata, Jayati Ghosh had a deja vu when she visited an ATM. “One ATM was out of cash and the other had a huge queue. It reminded me of the terrible times in November and December 2016 when the cash crunch was acute,” she said. In central Kolkata, an ATM near the entrance to the KMC headquarters also ran out of money. Soon, the other ATMs in the locality had huge queues. “A year and a half ago, I had not reacted fast enough. By the time I reached ATMs, they had all run dry. I am not taking any chances,” said trader Animesh Sinha standing in a queue.
 
 While a few ATMs run out of money every day and are replenished in a few hours, the rush to withdraw money meant cash vanishing from more ATMs. By evening, a good number of ATMs across the city did not have cash.
 
 The average outgo from SBI ATMs in the city is usually Rs 6-7 lakh. For other banks, it is Rs 3-4 lakh. Sources in the banking circles attributed the crisis to the shift from Rs-2,000 notes to Rs-200 notes in ATMs. “The forthcoming panchayat election has fuelled demand for cash. Cheaper data has led to spurt in data usage. This has, in turn, led to a drop in connectivity. With digital payment floundering due to data issues, the demand for cash has gone up further,” said another PSU bank official.
 
 Ashok Mukherjee, ex-deputy chief secretary of  , blamed the Centre: “The crisis is intentional and aimed at promoting digital payment controlled by private companies.”
 
