BENGALURU: Wipro's growth remains modest, and the weakest among its peers. But the company pointed to a variety of areas where it appears to be getting stronger, and CEO   indicated that in another four quarters, its year-on-year numbers would look much better. In the quarter ended December, Wipro's IT services revenue stood at $2 billion, up 3% in constant currency (which eliminates the effect of currency volatility over which companies have no control) compared to the same quarter in 2016-17. 

 This was in line with its own guidance for the quarter. But peers grew much faster in the quarter-Infosys by 5.8%, TCS 6.2% and HCL 11.2%. Compared to the preceding (September) quarter, Wipro's constant currency growth was 0.9%. Only   grew slower, at 0.8%. Neemuchwala noted that the BFSI (banking, financial services & insurance) business, the largest vertical for most large IT services players, grew by 4.2% CQGR (compounded quarterly growth rate) in the last four quarters. The same was 5.1% for the digital business (the new-age services which have become the growth engine for IT), and Neemuchwala said it now constitutes more than 25% of the company's revenues. He said the company is rapidly expanding the consulting portfolio as reflected by the 4-quarter CQGR of 7%. Consulting has become important given that customers need advice on how to use and implement new-age digital technologies. The number of accounts in the over $50 million portfolio have increased from 33 to 41 in the last four quarters, indicating the company is winning larger deals. "Overall, we have been seeing an improving trajectory of growth over the past four quarters and our Q4 guidance reflects that," Neemuchwala said. The company has guided for a sequential 1-3% growth in the on-going quarter, better than in most quarters over the past few years. Net profit and operating margins suffered because of the insolvency of a client in the energy vertical. Wipro had made significant investments for the project, and the bankruptcy forced it to make a provision of Rs 317 crore in Q3. This pushed the operating margin down to 14.8%, from 17.3% in Q2. 
 
 
