CHENNAI: With a proposal to set up an   near Madharpakkam mired in red tape, hundreds of youth from nearby villages are hopping across the border to   in   for work every day. 

 The integrated business city just 10 kilometres from Madharpakkam near Gummidipoondi has emerged as a major source of employment for local youth. Jeelani, an auto rickshaw driver, said about 100 vans ferry workers to and fro on a daily basis. "At least 2000 people from rural pockets in and around Madharpakkam work in Sri City," he said.
 
 In stark contrast, the 750-acre plot of land near Madharpakkam remains barren, with encroachments cropping up all around it, though the plan for the industrial park was put forward by   in 2009 around the same time that Sri City was shaping up. SIPCOT observed that at least 3,500 people would get direct employment, while another 10,000 persons would receive indirect job opportunities through the project. 
 
 The Tamil Nadu government gave the go-ahead for the industrial park in Manallur and Soorapoondi villages to promote pharmaceutical and chemical industries. The entire land parcel is dry poramboke land owned by the government and did not involve any acquisition except for a one-and-a-half acre plot. The land is lying unused for about eight years as it is yet to receive environmental clearance.
 
 Locals say the park would have also offered brisk business to traders. "The proposed industrial park at Manallur and Soorapoondi villages would have given a fillip to small traders at Madharpakkam, besides providing employment for local youth," said a local trader.
 
 A visit to the spot revealed that hutments are mushrooming and the poramboke land is being used for farming. There is hardly any fencing and boards warning trespassers have disappeared.
 
 CII Tamil Nadu state council president   said the land at Manallur was vital because it would increase the land bank required for industrial purposes within a 100-km radius from Chennai. "Steps should be taken for obtaining necessary approvals quickly," he said.
 
 When contacted, SIPCOT officials said steps are being taken to get the nod for environmental impact assessment. An official also said that notices have been issued to vacate those who have occupied a portion of the land. However, he did not give a time frame within which the industrial park would be thrown open.
 
 
