DHARAMSHALA: Role of the   has come under scanner in the school bus accident where 23 children, four adults were killed. Road was ill maintained and there was big erosion at the spot from where bus rolled steep down the hill. There were no crash barriers or parapets for the safety of the commuters at the spot. A committee formed to inspect the reasons of this accident has visited the spot on Thursday evening.

 The place where incident took place was a straight slope to the bottom of the hill which was around 100 meter of depth. The ill fated school bus with 37 passengers on board, most of them below 12 years of age, went straight down with such a pressure that nothing much was left in the bus.
 
 “We are underway to find the actual cause of accident, but people of the village had complained about bad condition of the road. Investigations were handed over to the DSP rank officer, but as there was nothing left only scattered wreckage of the bus. It will take some time to ascertain actual reasons” said  , Superintendent of Police Kangra.
 
 Facing a heat from the grieving villagers, the officials of the PWD was scared who were preparing a detailed report this link road from Malkwal to Thed. A high level inspection will be held for this spot to find the role of department.
 
 “It was not possible to give such a high retaining wall at this spot to prevent erosion. The points of constructing parapets and crash barriers were being inspected that whether concerned engineers had proposed it and budget was sanctioned for this or not” said a senior most official of the department.
 
 Natives of the area have blamed that it had become the practice of the road department to fill the potholes with the mud. This has made the road slippery after the rains causing inconvenience to the commuters by increasing risks of accident.
 
 Inquires revealed that school bus in question was just five years old. It was a model of February 1, 2013, said local administration. The fitness certificate of this was made till May 2018.
 
 The driver of the bus,   who was in his sixties owns a good reputation in village. “No one was blaming driver, everyone knows that he was a gentle person and never did rash driving. Even his grand children used to travel in the same bus, but they were not there at the time of accident” said Indu Bala, Pradhan of the village. 
 
