MANGALURU: The  , New South Wales,   and  , on Wednesday, exchanged a memorandum of understanding that will see the two universities explore opportunities in areas of multi-disciplinary research. The two institutions of higher education have tentatively identified areas in sciences, material sciences, physics and even English, with plans for student and faculty exchange sas part of terms of the  , which is valid for five years.

 Kevin  , deputy vice-chancellor (research and innovation), The University of  , in a chat with reporters post exchanging the MoU with B S Nagendra Prakash, registrar, Mangalore University, said, “We will strive for maximum areas of collaboration with Mangalore University.The research areas that faculty of respective areas will work on should help address significant problem areas in two nations that will benefit the people and their economies.”
 
 Averring that his university, a medium size university Down Under, had its strengths in science and technology, Hall said The University of Newcastle can bring to the table these strengths, especially in areas of environment, advanced materials and medicine technology, that will help drive economies of the two countries. “We want to address the social conscience of communities that we work for, while addressing issues of women in society and gender equality,” he said.
 
 The MoU will also provide a platform for students and faculty of the two universities to be mobile in their academic approach. Averring that Australians by nature are isolated and insular in their approach, Hall said the MoU will provide students from back home to experience the Indian education system, and their Indian counterparts to understand what higher education in Australia is all about. “Student faculty exchange will pave the way for much needed social change,” he noted.
 
 Later, at an interaction meet with stakeholders, Hall exhorted the students and faculty to bring up their ideas up the chain, so that the two universities can take a decision on taking them forward. K Byrappa, vice-chancellor, Mangalore University, said the two universities as part of the MoU, will work out modalities of exchanging research scholars and faculty.  , director,   of Advanced Nanomaterials, The Univeristy of Newcastle, was present.
 
 
