NEW DELHI: Delhi chief secretary Anshu Prakash’s medical examination, conducted on Tuesday night after an FIR was registered in the case of the alleged assault on him by MLAs at the chief minister’s residence, mentions injuries on his face and elsewhere. 

  (AAP) has, however, questioned the over 20-hour delay in the check-up. It has dismissed this “evidence” of Prakash having been assaulted by sticking to its allegation of a conspiracy having been hatched against the government. 
 
 The report observes that there is tenderness and mild swelling behind both ears, swelling over the right zygomatic (cheekbone) region and a bruise on the lower lip (1cm x 0.5 cm size). The examination was done by doctors at Delhi government’s Aruna Asaf Ali Hospital in Civil Lines. Prakash was taken to the hospital by Delhi Police. According to the hospital report, a copy of which is with TOI, Prakash was conscious but his blood pressure was 170/ 100 mmHg, which is considered to be very high. The normal reading is 130/80 mmHg. Doctors said he was stressed.
 
  
  
 The chief secretary was prescribed two painkillers - Diclofenac and Serratiopeptidase - and one antacid, Ranitidine. He was advised to apply an ice-pack to the injured parts. He was also asked to visit the hospital's orthopaedic and surgery units for a review in OPD.
 
 AAP had claimed that the arguments with the chief secretary had been heated but there was no assault as alleged by him when he visited chief minister  's residence for an urgent meeting on Tuesday night.
 
 Spokesperson of AAP's Delhi unit   rubbished Prakash's allegation of assault and pointed to the "delay" in registration of the FIR and medical examination. "The credibility of the medical report is in question because the CS went to the hospital for a medical check-up around 9pm on Tuesday while he claims that the assault took place around 12am on Monday," he said.
 
 A case had been registered on Tuesday at the Civil Lines police station on Prakash's complaint alleging that he was assaulted by AAP MLA   and others during the meeting at Kejriwal's residence. Khan and another MLA,  , are now in judicial custody while Kejriwal's advisor, VK Jain, was questioned by the police on Wednesday.
 
 Party's   MP, Sanjay Singh, also questioned the delay in the lodging of a police complaint by the CS. "Even if we believe what the CS is saying is true, a question arises on the delay. Why did he not go to the police immediately after the alleged assault? He went to the police in the morning after completely planning the story. A common man will go to the police immediately after such an incident. We have video footage of the CS walking out of the CM's residence which shows no panic in his body language," Singh claimed.
 
