NEW DELHI: The   continues to boycott the Delhi government. And even though chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and his cabinet colleagues   to seek his intervention to defuse the crisis, the officers aren’t willing to play ball until the   apologises. 

 Yet both Kejriwal and deputy CM Manish Sisodia have dodged the apology demand. At a press conference on Friday, after the meeting with LG, Sisodia was asked if the CM would apologise. He simply said, “The whole incident is being narrated incorrectly, and in any case it is a matter of investigation. 
 
 Meanwhile, Joint Forum of Delhi Government Officers and Employees “strongly condemned the statement of MLA Naresh Balyan” who had talked about beating up officers even as the CM was present. They also protested against the conduct of ex-MLA Naresh Yadav, who allegedly “threatened and misbehaved with the principal of a government school in Delhi”.
 
 The Forum met late in the evening to adopt a resolution. “The Forum has resolved to continue work only through formal written communication with the political executive. It is reiterated that work is going on smoothly and the governmen officers and employees of Delhi are working daily during regular working hours and beyond whenever necessary,” read a statement. 
 
 The agitating staff also observed five minutes of silence at 1.30pm to protest against “the ill-treatment meted out to the officers in general and assault of chief secretary of Delhi in particular”. 
 
 Earlier, the officers met MoS to PMO Jitendra Singh and MoS (Home) Hans Raj on the alleged assault of chief secretary Anshu Prakash. They told them that all government employees are worried about their personal safety and dignity. “Both the ministers were also apprised of other instances of verbal assault and harassment of officers in the past. It was pointed out that such treatment meted out to officers affects their ability to function impartially and professionally. Both the ministers assured that it was the duty of the government to provide safe and dignified environment to the officers,” the statement read. 
 
 The protest had started on February 20 by IAS, DANICS and DASS officer associations. The Forum is now going to take it forward. Apart from many officer associations, this Forum has representatives of teacher associations, Delhi Jal Board employees and also municipal corporation engineers. 
 
 On Friday, retired IAS officers, too, wrote an open letter condemning the attack on Prakash. The letter was signed by former Delhi chief secretary D M Spolia, former Delhi Police commissioner B K Gupta, former DDA vice-chairman Balvinder Kumar, and others. “We demand that the chief minister immediately speak up and apologise on the issue,” the letter read.
 
