PATNA: “A dark, winter night... even the stars in the sky seemed to be shivering. Wrapped in an old sheet, Halku was sitting on a bamboo cot near his fields under a shelter made of sugarcane leaves. He was shaking with cold and so was his dog, Jabra, who was curled up under the cot, whining.”

 These famous lines from ‘Poos Ki Raat’, authored by Munshi   in the early 20th century, appear to have come alive in Bihar — over 100 years on. Piyush Tripathi takes a look on how the spine-chilling cold has impacted life: 
 
 
 
 
 Patna was the coldest city in the entire eastern region of Bihar,  ,  , Odisha and northeastern states on Thursday afternoon when it recorded 11.6 degrees C. Around the same time, Ranchi was experiencing 23.2 degress C, Bhubaneswar 28 degrees C, Malda 17.8 degrees C and Gangtok was experiencing 12.8 degrees C.
 
 
 
 
 Weather experts attribute the prevailing weather to the impact of cold north-westerly winds coming from snow-laden J&K and neighbouring regions. “Snowfall has been almost recurrent in the Himalayan region and winds from there are blowing towards the Indo-Gangetic plains. The icy winds have led to sharp plunge in the temperature,” said India Meteorological Society’s Bihar chapter secretary Pradhan Parth Sarthi.
 
 
 
 
 Meteorologists blame it on the windy conditions and minimal difference between the maximum and minimum temperatures. North-westerly winds blew at of 8-12kmph on Thursday. 
 
 
 
 
 All government and private schools in most Bihar districts, including Patna, Nalanda, Bhojpur, Muzaffarpur and Gaya, have been ordered to remain closed for students up to classes 8. Officials say they won’t allow the schools to reopen until the weather conditions improve.
 
 
 
 
 The Bihar State Disaster Management Authority on January 2 issued an advisory, asking people not to venture out of home unless necessary. The advisory said the state was facing ‘cold wave conditions’ and asked people to wear sufficient woollens to keep themselves warm. 
 
 
 
 
 With the fog cover reducing visibility, traffic movement by road, rail or air has gone haywire. The visibility in cities like Patna and Gaya dropped to as low as 25meters in the morning hours due to fog on almost all days during the last fortnight. A large number of trains and flights had to be canceled.
 
 
