GANDHINAGAR: Setting the stage for   through collaborative efforts, hundreds of Patidar industrialists from Gujarat and abroad came to one platform, at the  , 2018. The first of-its-kind three-day community centred business event kicked off at Mahatma Mandir in   on Friday. Industry players from the Patel community vowed to work together towards the development of the community with focus on employment generation, entrepreneurship and skill development among Patidar youths.

 For their vision of “Nation building through community building”, Patidar business leaders under the aegis of Sardardham Vishwa Patidar Kendra (SDVPK), a community-run philanthropic organisation, unveiled ‘Mission 2026’, envisaging employment, skill development, business linkages and entrepreneurship promotion for Patidars.
 
 “To harness youth, we have decided to form a body of 10,000 industrialists and employ 10 lakh youths by 2026. We want to encourage 10,000 girls and boys to join the administrative services,” said Gagji Sutariya, president of SDVPK which organized the event at a time when Patidar quota agitation leader   has been demanding reservation in jobs and education for the youths from the community.
 
 The business meet was inaugurated by Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani in the presence of deputy chief minister   at Mahatma Mandir.
 
 “The association will create entrepreneurship and business opportunities for some 10 lakh Patidar youth,” Sutariya added. An investment of Rs 100 crore to set up a training centre and hostel accommodation has been committed by SDVPK.
 
 To provide coaching to civil service aspirants and budding entrepreneurs, Sardhardham, a community-run philanthropic organization, signed memorandums of understanding (MoUs) with eight Patidar bodies. They will set up centres for civil services training, industrial training, guidance for government assistance, revenue and legal guidance in Saurashtra, central, north and south Gujarat.
 
 The community associations include Umiya Career Development Council, Sola and Leuva Patel Pragati Mandal, Nikol in Ahmedabad, Shree Kanam Pradesh Patidar Seva Samaj, Vadodara, Umiya Career Development Council, Mehsana, Kadva Patidar Samaj, Gandhinagar, Unjha Kelvani Mandal, Unjha, Sardar Patel Seva Trust, Bhavnagar and Samast Patidar Samaj, Surat.
 
 Some 4,350 industrialists participated in the inaugural day of the event, including those who had put up stalls at the exhibition.
 
 Sardhardham plans to hold this event every two years, till 2026. While acknowledging the tremendous potential India has in human resources, Dr Kiran Patel, an NRI philanthropist and entrepreneur from Florida, said, “Education is going to be very important in days to come. If government and industry work together, India and Gujarat will be different,” he said. He, however, also cautioned that farmers should not be overlooked in the pursuit of economic development.
 
 
