Pet owners often struggle with the right kind of nutrition. While there has been enough discussion about not feeding sugar, salt, chocolate, garlic or mushrooms; how do we know what is healthy for pets? 

 With superfoods being the buzzword for health freaks around the world, it was only a matter of time we zeroed in on whether there are superfoods for our canine friends too... Well, the answer is yes.
 
 Superfoods are nothing but nutrient-rich foods considered to be beneficial for health and well-being. Here are some pocket-friendly food items that are easily available in the market and are completely safe and healthy for your pooches.
 
 
 
 
 Oatmeal can be a good diet replacement for kibble as it is rich in fibre and helps regulate bowel movement. It is also a healthy option for dogs which are allergic to wheat.
 
 
 
 Pumpkin is rich in vitamins and fibres. It is a tasty and filling meal for your furry friend. It helps keep the GI tract moving. It can also help with digestive issues.
 
 
 
 Add boiled carrot to your dog’s food. It is a wise option for overweight dogs. Also, carrot is low in calories. It’s also very good for dogs’ teeth, and is packed with fibre and vitamins.
 
 
 This superfood is not only healthy for humans but works like magic for your dogs. Apples are filled with fibres, vitamin A and C. It helps cleanse residue from their teeth. Just make sure you remove the seeds; they can be dangerous.
 
 
 Giving milk to your dog can be tricky but yogurt can be a good option. It is high in protein and calcium, and helps with digestion. During summer, it is light and will help keep your dog cool.
 
 
 
 Eggs can be one of the best sources for protein. It helps builds muscle and the fat builds energy. However, don’t overfeed egg yolks as they are high in cholesterol. Make sure you never feed raw eggs to your pooches as this can cause a risk of salmonella.
 
 
 Dogs need protein as the main source of energy and chicken is lean meat. It provides protein without much of a calorie count. It also helps in maintaining healthy fur. Feed cooked chicken, minus salt, and avoid bones.
 
 
 Peanut butter is one of the most favourite treats for dogs. It is filled with vitamins and healthy fats. But make sure to use the unsalted and sugar-free version. 
 — Swati Tandon, pet expert
 
 Are you a proud pet parent? Have a cute cat story to share? Maybe your guinea pig is giving you trouble? Whatever is your creature companion, we are here to listen to you. Mention your full name and your city, and send your photos, queries and stories to 
 
 
 
 
