NAGPUR: The old choice of city gamblers to quash tensions of a high-stakes game with Lakadganj’s   and hirakali (sweets) seems to be getting replaced by porn. During a raid on March 10, Zonal DCP   was stunned to find X-rated CDs at a gambling den functioning under the garb of a club at   chowk. 

 The raid by Bharne, in which 14 persons were rounded up, had brought to fore the new fad of watching porn to spice up the excitement of the gambling. A TV set was also found at the den which was comfortably air-cooled. The place is learnt to have permission from government to operate a club house for card players. 
 
 While the CDs gave a new twist to the raid, it was common for gamblers to guzzle liquor and devour non-vegetarian foods along with their love of rabdi and a special sweet called ‘hirakali’ from   in Lakadganj. This they would have in breaks between long hours at the gaming table. Sources from Lakadganj police said cops often gauged the activities of the gambling den of   at Shanti nagar from the sale of rabdi and hirakali from the particular hotel. “Rabdi worked as mood enhancers for gamblers,” said an experienced cop. 
 
 DCP   said raids revealed that gambling dens were offering various services, including porn shows, to lure the gamblers. “If local police stations are interested, then they can unearth many facts regarding these dens but it seems they are least bothered,” he said. “This was the den frequented by people from different walks of life,” he added. 
 
 Bharne said during his raid on Monday at Phulsingh Naik Krida Mandir at Raghuji Nagar, he was surprised to find the facilities being offered to gamblers in the guise of a sporting body. “The air-conditioned rooms with cushy mattresses and attached kitchen provided gamblers comfort. Food of one’s choice, watching cricket, supply of liquor and other narcotics are available at gambling dens,” said Bharne whose squad arrested 27 persons, seizing a car and four bikes apart from Rs 1.48 lakh cash in the raid. “We are now recommending cancelling of permissions of these clubs to charity commissioner,” he said. 
 
 According to an insider, a gambling den at  , in which a police personnel is learnt to be a sleeping partner, has an attached room where gamblers can enjoy liquor and non-vegetarian food. “Favourites among the gamblers are mutton chop and chilli chicken with beer and liquor. All upper grade gambling dens offer additional services with food and liquor,” he said.
 
 
