BENGALURU: Henceforth, women taking antenatal scanning will have to submit address proof at scanning centres. 

  To curb female foeticide through implementation of the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PCPNDT) Act, the government has mandated that address details of those undergoing scanning have to be furnished in Form F which captures the medical history of pregnant women. 
 
 Till now, in the absence of a software, scanning centres used to submit hard copies of the Form F to the department once a month. There were issues of incorrect and incomplete filing of Form F, and non-maintenance of medical records. While it is possible to determine the gender of the fetus between 16 and 20 weeks, the department wants to keep an eye on medical terminations through   software. The software has already been in use in   and  .
 
 According to the department, the state has 4,616 scanning centres of which, 2,617 have been given password to access Balika software and fill up F Form online. 
 
 "Form F gives circumstantial evidence while investigating female foeticide case or any violation of the Act," said Dr  , deputy director, PCPNDT cell, state health and family welfare department.
 Many doctors are seeking photo ID cards. "It can be any of the 13 documents (see box). The sex ratio in   among children (0-6 years) is 948:1,000 as per the 2011 census," he added.
 
 However, the government has not put out a public notice, citing lack of funds. 
 
  "Patients are not aware of this. The government must advertise and spread the message," said a fetal medicine expert. Pregnant women come for scanning to Bengaluru from far off districts in case of any anomaly in the fetus is noticed by doctors in their native place and they may not be carrying ID cards, the doctor pointed out. 
 
 Dr  , clinical director, Nurture IVF, said her patients have been briefed about the same. "We've asked them to bring their address proof when they come for scanning. As nobody usually carries these documents all the time, it's important to spread awareness," she said.
 
  "When we conduct meetings, most hospitals send receptionists or lower-rung staff. Doctors claim they are too busy to attend meetings. The participants may not understand what we instruct. Photo ID cards are not necessary; any address proof will do," officials said. 
 
  
  
