MUMBAI: Over 3,000 students were allotted a school in the city through the first round of lottery held on Tuesday for seats reserved under the Right to Education Act, 2009. Uncertainty, however, looms over their admissions as private schools have decided to boycott the process over non-payment of past dues by the state government.

 Out of the 10,628 applications received by the BMC, 3,239 were allotted a seat at an unaided non-minority school in round one. Parents of these students can approach the respective schools Wednesday onwards to complete the admission process. A total of 8,374 seats are on offer. “This year, we have reached out to a lot more people and hence, number of applications are higher,” said Mahesh Palkar, education officer, BMC.
 
 School associations are, however, determined to continue their protest over pending reimbursements for the past five years. “We have support from most of the schools in the city and none of the admissions will be accepted until the government clears our dues. We have informed them about it ahead of the admission process and they should have not conducted the lottery. The state government is not disclosing the funds they have received from the Centre,” said  , secretary, Unaided School Forum. 
 
 Schools said that they will wait till month-end to hear from the education department. A member of a school management, on condition of anonymity, said, “The government has assured us that reimbursements will be released by March 31, but until then, we won’t accept admissions.”
 
 On the other hand, some schools said they will accept all students assigned to them. “We already have over 240 students at our school and we will accept the incoming batch as well. Our management has decided to continue to take in students,” said  , principal, Pawar Public School, Chandivli.
 
 Out of the 347 participating schools, while several received applications much more than their intake capacity, 47 received no applications. Students who do not confirm their admission in this round will not get a chance in the next round. The second round of lottery will be conducted between March 28 and 31.
 
 
