JAIPUR: A guard, who was detained for questioning after he stopped an IPS officer from entering into the chamber of a doctor at   two days ago, has created panic among other guards. Following the incident, many guards are now reluctant to perform their duties properly.

 Meanwhile, the   (JARD) has thrown weight behind the guards. In a letter to   (SMS)   principal, it has urged him to infuse confidence among the guards so that they can function without fear. A JARD official said, “The guards were not performing their duties properly. They were not stopping patients who were entering into doctors’ chamber without standing in queues. This was leading to chaos in the out-patient department (OPD).”
 The official said that two days ago, when a guard tried to stop a person from entering the chamber of a doctor in  , it lead to mild altercation. The person informed the guard that he was known to the doctor. Following that, the person, who is a senior IPS officer, informed the police at   police station. The police reached SMS Hospital and took away the guard, he said.
 
 The Moti Doongri police station house officer   said, “The IG police came to the hospital along with his mother after taking appointment in advance. We received a phone call that a guard had misbehaved with him. Our team reached the hospital and brought the guard to the station for questioning. Later, he was allowed to go. It is wrong to say that we have arrested the guard,” he said.
 
 Now, the JARD has come out in support of the guards in the SMS Hospital.
 
 The official said that if the guards do not stop the patients and allow everyone to enter the doctors’ chambers, it will create chaos in the hospital.
 
 The guards are deployed in the SMS Hospital on contractual basis. It is not for the first time, when guards and attendant of the patients involve in altercation. Such incidents were reported in the past. It is frequently been reported that patients’ attendants alleged that guards misbehaved with them. But, the incidents are not reported and they do not come into light. But, the incident happened on Saturday came into light when the IPS officer alleged misbehaviour from the guard.
 
