Recent instances of daring burglaries have been giving nightmares to the residents of Kochi. A shocking one involved a gang which attacked an elderly couple in Tripunithura and took away 50 sovereigns of gold. Though the police nabbed three members of this group from Delhi, the string of incidents that followed seem to show that several gangs are undeterred and on the prowl. It is a part of human nature to brush aside such incidents as one-off or something that happens to other people. But are there any timely steps we can take to ensure the safety of our families?

 Reghunath KN, secretary of Elamana Road Residents Association, Tripunithura, recollects how there was an air of disbelief and horror in 2009 and 2010, when robbers encroached people’s homesteads, cocking a snook at the society. “I remember how victims were beaten up mercilessly during these   attempts. The situation was such that people were scared to even walk alone on the streets. That was when our residents association thought of installing closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras in and around the locality.”
 
 After installing five cameras in 2013, an additional seven were pressed into service last year. He says that a camera costs around `9,000 and each requires separate cable, which will cost `80 per metre. “Making use of DVR then becomes necessary. As the residents pooled in their support and money worth `4 lakh, we could get this done.” Timely maintenance is also a must, according to him. 
 
 The benefits were many, he says. They were able to prevent chain snatching cases, harassment of women and even dumping of waste in the area, Reghunath points out. “Information on people found under suspicious situations such as climbing the walls of houses and strangers are shared on our Whatsapp group, following which we report it to the police station. We also note down vehicle numbers and keep the members informed about it. Since its inception, we have been able to intercept quite a few people.”
 
 Puthankulangara Residents Association from Eroor North, Tripunithura has put in place around 26 cameras to keep a close watch on those entering their locality which has around 100 houses. “We thought it best to take the step, as our lives were in danger, following threats of robbery. In addition to public spaces, the owners of five houses have taken the initiative to install CCTV in their homes as well,” says Nazar Pallachi, association president, who has installed 14 cameras in his home at a cost of `1.25 lakh.
 
 Since monitoring through a centralised system calls for more expenses, they have seven DVRs fixed in seven houses. “We keep track of the movements one day in a week, and the backup from each corner of the locality will be closely checked. Since it is a matter of life and death, we cannot take chances.” 
 
 Though the work is complete, they are waiting for Assistant Commisioner ST Kumar to inaugurate the same on January 26.
 More useful than cameras are sensors, according to Jiju K, an executive in a security systems firm in Kochi, as cameras can be tampered with by thieves. He says, “The Video Door Phone Security System ensures that the person in the house can either see or talk to the person standing in the entrance before letting in anyone. Through the Biometric Lock System, the family members can together make a registry of their fingerprints or save a password to gain entry.”
 
 There are sensors that sound alarm which can be fixed at the area right next to the car porch. “Another thing that can be done is to have such sensors at the door, and as soon as anyone touches the main door, back door, terrace door or enters the balcony, the internal infra-red sensors will detect the movements and intimate those inside.” He adds that since many people today use glass instead of grills, glass sensors can be used.
 Not only are the unsuspecting members of a house alerted but also the firm that sells the product. When there is a security alarm, they inform the family and rush medical help too, if needed. “In case we do not get a response from them, we inform the neighbours and the nearest police station. During situations when the house owners are out of station, the neighbours are alerted.”
 
 Observing the people moving in and out of the locality is always needed, says M S Faisal, sub-inspector, Aluva. “Every house owner or tenant is required to keep a list of the people living in the household and also do a thorough background check. We also need to know about the migrants who throng to the city. Collection of data of the inflow and outflow of people is important.” An updated list of the same has to be submitted to the police station on a regular basis, he says.
 
 “We are in the process of working with the residents associations to bring a unified approach in the case of installing CCTV cameras. We will make it more inclusive by taking one of the residents association members along with us for patrolling the area in the night, as part of Janamaithri. During our recent meeting with the association at Uliyannoor, they had agreed to install 10 cameras. Now we hear they have decided to install 40,” he adds.
 He quotes the age-old adage that prevention is better than cure. “Keeping jewellery and valuables in bulk at home is asking for trouble. Keeping them safely in the bank is the best thing to do.”
 
 
