He had many girls go gaga over him when he first entered the television industry as a video jockey. And since then, there has been no stopping actor  , who has appeared in many serials and films. Prajin, who took a break from television, is back after a long hiatus, with  . His character as a naïve, innocent guy has conquered the hearts of many, not just making him the darling of the masses, but also fetching him the top slot in   Man On Television, 2017. We tell him this, and he asks if we are playing a prank on him... We speak to him about being desirable, how television is close to his heart, and more. Excerpts: 
 
 
 I started out as a video jockey, did serials and left the industry to do films. I was quite successful on television, but I didn’t find the same kind of success when it came to films. I made a comeback of sorts with Chinnathambi, which slowly and steadily climbed up the TRP chart. However, this happened after a long time, and so, this itself was overwhelming for me. And now, being the most desirable man is like icing on the cake. It took a lot of hard work, failures; and it is my never-give-up attitude that helped me reach this stage. I now feel that there is a time for everyone, and my time is now.
 
 
 Hmmm… my boy-next-door appeal! Though I shouldn’t be the one saying this — I’ve had people tell me that I have absolutely no attitude. I don’t have any hang-ups and that’s been my biggest plus. But if I must pick a feature, it would be my eyes. They say, my eyes speak a lot (laughs). Even my wife, Sandra Amy, says that a lot.
 
 
 By being myself. It is great to have a fan following. I do have a lot of women commenting on my social media posts. I respond to every single comment. That’s the least I could do for all the love my fans give me. There have been times when fans have asked my wife about me, too. She keeps telling me, “Engapaathalum ellarum unna dhan kekaraanga”. But it is nice to have an understanding wife. Since she is also an actress, she understands these things.
 
 
 Oh yes… from class Seven, to be precise. I am a huge fan of Arjun and Salman Khan. I still remember they had screened Arjun’s Sevagan during my town’s kovil thiruvizha. I have watched that film more than 30 times. And in my college days, the walls of my room used to be full of Salman’s posters. Becoming an actor has always been on my mind. I talk a lot and that’s how I became an anchor. That led me to becoming an actor on television, which later got me opportunities to act in films. I have done five Malayalam films and 5-6 Tamil films. But in Tamil, the films didn’t really work for me. I was recognised as an actor, but that didn’t help me in getting a break. It was a tough time for me since I’d taken a break from television to do films. I was successful as a television actor, but that didn’t translate to cinema. There were times when people told me I should have taken up acting when I started out as a TV anchor. At that time, it was difficult to get into films. But now, it is easy to be part of films, but difficult to succeed. There were times when I have wondered about what hadn’t worked for me — was is it the movies, the production or time? But these things never got me dejected as I am a positive guy. 
 
 
 It would bother me, but not too much. There is no point in getting tense and worrying over what didn’t work. I did a film called Thee Kulikkum Pachai Maram, which released around the same time as Dhanush’s Maryan. I am not sure if people remember this film… it was an intense subject about a guy who lives in a mortuary. I don’t know if I will get such roles in the future, but its release was simply wrong timing. Directors like Samuthirakani, Seenu Ramasamy and Arivazhagan hugged me after watching the film. Life has to move on. 
 
  
 Yes, it is things like these that restore my faith in what I do. I got offers to do so many serials, but I didn’t take them up as I was trying hard to make it big in cinema. But the break that I had taken also worried me quite a bit. I had people asking me where I was and what I was working on. It was during this time that the Chinnathambi team approached me. They were on the lookout for actors, but my look was in sync with the hero of the original Bengali serial, Khokababu. When they narrated the story, it was interesting. I decided I should give it a shot, and luckily, it worked. The serial is really close to my heart. The role I play is something like what Prabhu sir played in Chinnathambi (the film), an innocent guy. Until today, we have serials that focus on women and have even the name of their character as the title. So, this one, which is male-centric, seemed like a first for me. We broke so many records on television when it came to the TRP. In fact, the success of the serial has only paved a new innings for me in the film industry. I am working on three new projects now.
 
 
 No. Today, the television industry is a lot bigger when compared to those days. The line has blurred… nobody sees you as a TV actor. The kind of work TV actors do, like the lengthy dialogues that they mouth, is something even film actors would find challenging. So, I will continue to do both television and movies. In fact, I would love to get back to hosting as well.
 
