PORVORIM: The three-member committee of ministers constituted last week to recommend areas that could be exempted from highway   ban held its first meeting on Wednesday. 

 On the directions of the committee, the excise secretary will categorize the 1,332 liqour vendors who are shut pursuant to the December 15, 2016 order as per their proximity to municipal areas.
 
 The   gave state governments the discretion to decide whether areas covered by local self-governing bodies or areas close to urban areas should be exempted from the nationwide ban on sale of liquor along national and state highways.
 
 The cabinet committee comprises urban development minister Francis D’Souza, revenue minister  , and Town and Country Planning minister Vijai  . The committee has asked for the 1,332 liquor vending licence holders to be categorized as per their proximity to a municipality, population as per Census 2011, and whether infrastructure development is on par with towns and cities.
 
 “We will tabulate them by dividing them into categories and based on that we will try and give them relief,” D’Souza said. “We have asked for the data and once they submit the data next week, we will apply the Supreme Court guidelines to them.”
 
 The modified apex court order, D’Souza said gives liberty to state governments to declare areas as urban that would not attract the national and state highway liquor-sale ban. He said these could be villages located close to census towns, villages with more than 5,000 population, or those that have developed on the line of urban areas. The secretary excise has been asked to prepare a report in tabulation form with regards to 1332 licenses.
 
 On July 11, 2017, the apex court had exempted municipal areas from the prohibition. In Mid-February this year, the Supreme Court issued the fresh guidelines after states like   sought a clarification from the court whether panchayats would also come under the definition of “municipal areas”.
 
 “We will meet in the coming week and most of the categories will be reviewed so that they get justice,” Sardesai said. 
 
 “We share their concern and we believe that they are   and the business, the work that they do, had been started before the Supreme Court came into the picture. It is their bread and butter and you can’t just close the tap on them.”
 
 In Goa, around 30% of liquor stores were forced to shut down following the Supreme Court verdict of December 15, 2016. The apex court had ordered that liquor vendors within 500mts of national and state highways would have to shut down from 1 April. The order has been subsequently modified.
 
 
