BENGALURU: Ahead of the crucial 2018  , Prime Minister   and chief minister Siddaramaiah exchanged barbs at each other on Wednesday. While Modi used the floor of the   to take on Siddaramaiah, the latter took to Twitter to counter attack.

 Modi made an oblique swipe at Siddaramaiah by quoting a poem by Bashir Badra recited by leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Mallikarjun M Kharge ‘Dushmani jam kar karo. Lekin yeh gunjaish rahe, jab kabhi hum dost ho jay, toh sharminda na ho’ roughly translated as ‘Bear enmity with all your might but we should also decide if ever we be friends again, we are not embarrassed’.
 
 Referring to this, Modi said: “I hope the meaning of this poem and the poem itself would have been heard by the CM and understood by him.’’
 
 Modi was referring to the series of attacks by Siddaramaiah and the Congress by alleging that Modi was misleading the people of Karnataka on all fronts, including financial aspects of central government funds to the state.
 
 Modi also recalled 12th century social reformer Basavanna, by targeting Kharge: “Khargeji, aren't you from Karnataka... at least remember Basava. You should know him, he established the   in the 12th century. Everything he did was done democratically and women's empowerment was his top priority. This was democracy in India in the 12th century. Have you forgotten that, Khargeji?” he asked.
 
 Siddaramaiah took to Twitter to counter Modi. “PM @narendramodi avare It was good of you to have remembered me in the Parliament today. I am glad you also remembered Basavanna. Basava said “Those with wealth will build temples; what do I do, a poor man?” Kannadigas will thank you sir if you could follow Basavanna’s teachings,” he tweeted.
 
 He also rebutted Modi’s statement about the railways and Karnataka, specifically the Bidar-Kalaburgi line, wherein the PM reminded Kharge that the project was approved by the Vajpayee government and till 2013 no work had been taken up until the BJP government came to power in 2008 in Karnataka. Siddaramaiah said: “The Bidar-Kalburgi line was developed at a cost of Rs 1542 cr.   has released Rs 691 crores for this project since 2007. 70% of this (Rs 488 cr) was released by our Govt since 2013.”
 
 
