The audience not only loved him, they revered him; after all he was their 'Devon Ke Dev, Mahadev'. But   was always conscious of the dizzy heights of fame that he was steadily touching. He didn’t let the adulation affect him because, as he says, he knew it would all change once the show would end. In a candid chat, the actor speaks about playing God on TV, life post Mahadev and why he likes to maintain a low profile. Excerpts... 

 
 
 If you mean in terms of adulation, then I always knew that things would change once the show would end and I was ready for that. I remember saying in an interview post Mahadev, ‘The struggle will begin now.’ I knew that the expectations would be at a different level. Obviously, one can’t always match up to the expectations, but I wanted to do my best. So,  , a lot has changed in the last two years, but in a good way too, because the audience can relate to me better today.
 
 
 
 I remember once there was this elderly woman who touched my feet and I said, ‘Aunty, what are you doing? You are the age of my grandmother.’ But then she told me, “You don’t have a right to stop me. I’m not touching your feet, I’m touching the feet of my aradhya who resides in you.’ After that day, I just let it be and didn’t stop people if that was making them happy. There were also times when little girls would come and say, ‘Uncle, you look sexy.’ I’d thank God that at least somebody was finding me sexy! While the show was on, people were even getting tattoes on their bodies. Post the show, naturally things have changed and now people know me more as Mohit Raina. 
 
 
 
 That’s my personality. I remember seeing this interview of Javed sahab and  . Shabanaji said her friends used to tell her how lucky she was because her husband was a poet; she must be waking up to beautiful lines from him every day. She said nothing of that sort happens and he is, in fact, the most boring person. To that, Javed sahab said, ‘Yeh kya baat hui? Circus mein jo joker hota hai, woh ghar par kya kartab marte rahega?’ That’s how I feel. It’s basically our profession. Of course, you are in the limelight and have to address a few things sometimes, but otherwise I like to keep a low profile.
 
 
 
 I have never spoken about my life because I always want to keep my personal and professional life separate. I remember getting a mail from someone recently, where the person said, ‘If you are in the limelight, you have to face this; if we love you, it’s our right to want to know more about your life.’ I’m not deliberately hiding anything, that’s how I am. There are always these invites for a mother’s day special or a family special episode. But I like to keep things private. Mouni has been a very dear friend since a long time. I have very few friends in the industry. All my friends are from my school and college days; there are some here in Mumbai, who are not from the industry. I am aware of rumours of our splitting, but I have not paid attention to that because there is nothing to explain. She is really a good friend and an integral part of my life. Nothing more, nothing less.
 
 
 
 Yes, 2017 has gone by! And no, there are no plans right now. Who would want to marry a boring, low-key person like me?
 
 
 
 I don’t use it as a shield. I think a creative person can be boring, to an extent.
 
 
 
 Just the other day somebody showed me a scene of Irrfan Khan from the old ' ' on TV. So, the topic was how he did small roles and now see where he has reached. The avenues were very few then, but today times have changed. There are so many web portals, channels and also international channels. What you need is money and something that gives you creative satisfaction, the medium doesn’t really matter.
 It’s not like I don’t want to do films, but I am not in a hurry. I don’t have to do it because everybody is doing it. Till now I haven’t found anything substantial, but if I do, I will surely take it up.
 
 
 
  I come from a middle-class family. My father was a doctor, my brother is an engineer, my bhabhi is an engineer, mom was a professor. I was pursuing chartered accountancy. I remember ' ' would air in those days and my cousins liked Hiten Tejwani’s character. They used to tell me I should become an actor. I would just laugh it off then, but one day I applied to a men’s pageant that was taking place in Mumbai and I got selected. Of course, there was a huge discussion at home because they thought somebody in the family had lost it! But I managed to convince them and that’s how I came Mumbai. I started modelling and then, TV happened.
 
 
 
 No, things just happen. It came to me at a time when I was about to do something else. I really liked the concept; it’s a compelling story that has interested a lot of makers across mediums. Playing a real life hero is always interesting and I decided to take it up. The story is very inspiring — it’s about 21 Sikh soldiers, who stood against 10,000 men to defend their post. 
 
 
 
 Unfortunately, each time I was about to play Shyam or Ram, something came my way. This time too, just when I was almost considering playing a loverboy who is madly in love with his wife, this show came up and I had to make a choice. 
 
