LUDHIANA: Stacks of dust-ridden files kept in the   branch of the   are going to be a thing of the past, as the entire work of this branch is getting digital and paperless from April 1. Residents who face harassment in following up their complaints will also get relief, as a special software is being developed, with the help of which every complaint will just be a click away, and people could even check the present status of their complaint on the monitor to be displayed outside the branch.

 Apart from this, records related to building plans, mobile towers, regularization of plots, court cases, colonies, development schemes, and composition related data are all scanned for digital record. This practice is also aimed at reducing incidents, where officials claim files went missing from the record. Telecom companies which take permission from   for installing mobile towers are defaulters in a big way, as they do not pay charges regularly to the department. The software will remind officials about due date of payments from companies for mobile towers, as the record is scanned.
 
 The department has almost completed the scanning of documents, and now they are going to start it officially by April 1. The software presentation will also take place on March 24. One official said there were 85,000 files of plot-holders who got their plots regularized in previous policies, but it was difficult to locate any file from records. Therefore, they have been scanned, and now everything is available at a single click. He said they have scanned records available with MC since 1976 when the civic body came into existence, and those records deteriorating with each passing day.
 
 Assistant town planner (headquarters) SS   said: “As of now, we have scanned each file available in all four zones of MC, and with the help of software, we will be able to collect any information. The official launch will be from April 1.” He said in the second phase, they have plans to share all information in the public domain, after which people need not visit MC offices. Rather, they will be able to check everything from anywhere. 
 
 COMPLAINTS & GEO-TAGGING
 
 Building branch staff is preparing a record of complaints in 2016-17 and 2017-18, along with current ones. These complaints will remain in  , and instead of locating files or papers, officials and the public will be able to trace its status through software.
 
 The MC has also done geo-tagging for all its 300 properties, in order to save it from encroachments. At times, it has come to notice that MC had no idea about the present position of its prime lands, and in the absence of proper checking, the land gets encroached. To keep a continuous check on the land, they have taken this step. Now, officials are thinking of hiring security personnel, and the geo-tagged the location of each property will be uploaded on their mobile phones, so that they can do regular patrolling of these properties. 
 
 
