DABOLIM: Air traffic growth at Goa international  ,  , has slowed down in 2017-18. The increase in domestic air traffic movement was only 7% (till-mid March), as against 25% for 2016-17. Similarly, the increase in international air traffic flow has not been impressive either.

 “Overall growth registered was 6% as against 30% in 2016-17,” airport director B C H Negi said. 
 
 On a positive note, he said though fewer charter flights landed in Goa till mid-March, a 12% growth was registered in charter tourist arrivals. Negi said, charters are slated to arrive till first week of May. 
 
 Growth reduced in both domestic as well as international passengers due to the airport’s inability to allot slots as per the requirements of the  , he said.
 
 “We are unable to provide night parking facility,” Negi said. The problem in all probability will be solved before the next tourist season starts, he said.
 
 “The construction of three additional parking bays is slated to be completed in October 2018 even though the work will slow down a bit during the monsoon,” the airport director said.
 
 Once the three additional bays are commissioned, we would able to provide night parking facility to aircraft, he said. Currently, charters landing at Goa airport return to their point of origin, and return to pick-up passengers at scheduled date.
 
 For years tour operators have been grumbling about the restraints at Goa airport and the difficulties they face as a result.
 
 The Goa airport is a defence airport with a civilian enclave. It remains shut between 8.30am to 12pm, except on Sunday, to allow naval flyings.
 
 The airport director said with the night park facility, the flights will be able to land late night and leave prior to 8.30am. Negi said airlines will introduce additional flights once we offer them night park facility.
 
 Besides, the airport director said, Goa has become costly as a tourist destination which is also one of the reasons for the decline. Some South Asian destinations can be visited at a lower cost than Goa, he said. During the year-end, air fare shoots by three or four times.
 
 
