MUMBAI: After drawing flak from principals across the state,   on Wednesday revoked the circular which asked schools to shut for   after May 1. While the circular is issued every year, the department this time listed a host of activities for students which drew protests from principals and teachers.

 According to a government resolution, schools can break for summer vacation from May 1 after celebrating  . However, after schools finish the   around April 15, only teachers come in to complete assessment and administrative work.
 
 This year's circular, issued by the   and Training had listed activities which the school must conduct for students of Classes I to IX up to April 30. These included story-telling, dramatics, poetry, reading sessions, painting competitions, sports and games etc.
 
 The decision did not go down well with principals. "Teachers have to do a lot of work after exams. If students come during that time, how will the teacher assess papers and complete the result work? Additionally, in the rural parts of the state calling students to school in the summers is not possible due to load shedding. Besides, parents have already made bookings for trips during the vacation," said Prashant Redij, spokesperson, Mumbai Principals' Association.
 
 But schools and students can heave a sigh of relief as the education minister withdrew the circular after protests from various groups. "The circular issued by MSCERT about state schools being operational till April 30 for classes 1-9 has been revoked. The summer vacations for schools will continue as regular," said Tawde.
 
 The academic fraternity is, however, unhappy with the frequent changes and last minute decisions of the education department. "The department has had to withdraw several of their decisions after people have protested. This shows the government is not thinking through before making announcements and this only creates panic among stakeholders," said Uday Nare, teacher, Hansraj Morarji Public School, Andheri.
 
 
