TEHATTA: The family of Nadia’s slain BSF head constable   were celebrating his 51st birthday on Wednesday, not knowing that he had fallen to bullets from across the border.

 His family members sent him birthday messages in the morning. At 6.54pm, barely 12 hours after the messages had been sent, Radhapada’s wife Sujata received a call.
 
 It was from Radhapada’s retired colleague. Sujata fainted as he informed her that her husband had been killed on Jammu and Kashmir’s Samba border after his battalion came under fire from the Pakistani army. 
 
 Radhapada sustained bullet wounds around 4pm on Wednesday after he and other personnel of his 173rd Battalion were attacked. He was rushed to a hospital, but succumbed to his injuries. 
 
 Gloom, dismay and sobs replaced the celebrations. Soon, the family received an official intimation from the BSF of their sole breadwinner’s demise in the line of duty. 
 
 As word went out, kin and neighbours started gathering. But the Hazra household remained inconsolable, even throughout Thursday. His daughter Rajeswari (21), a trainee nurse at Murshidabad’s Jalangi, said, “My father had served on the border for 27 years. I have been telling him repeatedly over the last few years to return to us for good whenever he came home on leave. But he would say “you are now grown ups and will soon move out. What will I come home to”.”
 
 Hazra’s family had moved to Maniknagar in Nadia’s Tehatta two years ago. 
 
 His son Rahul, a class XII student of the Nazirpur Vidyapith School, said, “Around 6.54pm, my father’s friend Gautam called us to inform about his death. My mother fell ill after she heard the news. She has been fainting repeatedly ever since. Five minutes later, we got another call from my father’s battalion in Jammu and Kashmir officially informing us of his death.” 
 
 Radhapada had last visited his family in October-November last year. 
 
 “My father became a martyr on his 51st birthday. Like every year, my father was away on duty. We would always celebrate a belated birthday on his yearly visits home,” said Rahul, adding, “We have been told by the BSF that my father’s body will be flown in from Jammu and Kashmir to Delhi and then to Kolkata by Thursday night.” 
 
 Radhapada’s coffin will be taken home early on Friday.
 
 
