Meerut:  , the daughter of a marginal farmer in   district of Uttar Pradesh, has set an example for hundreds of other girls in her native Deri Skaner village, most of who drop out of schools due to pressures of marriage or incidents of harassment by local youths. The 17-year-old girl has got a full   from the prestigious Babson College in Massachusetts, United States. Sudeeksha will pursue a four-year-old course in entrepreneurship education from the college.

 
  
  A student of Bulandshahr’s Vidya Gyan school, she had topped the CBSE class XII exams with a score of 98% (in humanities) in the district. “I was expelled in class II from a private school because my father was unable to pay my tuition fee. I had stayed home for a year but continued to study from my friends’ textbooks. Later, I took admission at the Prathmik Vidyalaya in Deri Skaner where I studied till class V. During my schooling here, I was asked by my teacher to fill entrance exam forms for Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya and Vidya Gyan schools. I cleared the test for Vidya Gyan and joined the residential school in Bulandshahr, where my education was free,” said Sudeeksha.
  
  Her father, Jitendra Bhati, earns around Rs 9,000 a month and takes care of six children. When Sudeeksha secured admission in Vidya Gyan, some of her neighbours had opposed to her moving out of the village to secure an education. But the girl’s family stood firmly by her side.
  
  “I could not get an education myself. But I understand its importance. I want all my children to study and become successful in their lives,” said Jitendra.
  
  It will not, however, be Sudeeksha’s first visit to the US. She had earlier gone visited the Lehigh University in Pennsylvania for a month-long global entrepreneurship program. “At Vidya Gyan, we are encouraged to not only focus on our studies but prepare for entrance exams to various courses abroad,” she added.
  
  The young girl wants to tap into rural talents and work towards women empowerment. “I run a small door-to-door campaign in Bulandshahr to convince parents to send their girls to schools. It’s called the ‘Voice of Women’ initiative and I ensure that it runs in full swing even in my absence,” said Sudeeksha.
