NAGPUR: After wasting public money on sterilization of strays for almost a decade, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation ( )’s latest drive is turning out to be futile this time too with Rs3.5 crore set to meet the same fate. Following complaints of around 100 dogs dying post operations, the city police have registered a first information report (FIR) against the concerned  .

 TOI recently reported about animal activists complaining about the negligence in animal birth control (ABC) operations leading to widespread infections and some stray deaths. Complaints were made to NMC, police and Union minister   who is the chairperson of animal rights NGO People for Animals (PFA).
 
 Shelling out Rs3.5 crore, the civic body had started sterilization at the ABC centre at the animal shelter run by   at Friends Colony over a month back. 
 
 However, according to the allegations of activists, the number of stray deaths have gone to 100. “Since the last few weeks, many residents have reported that NMC workers took away strays from their locality but when they were released, the dogs were sick and most of them had infections,” said animal activist Karishma Galani, adding that taxpayers’ money is being wasted again.
 
 TOI learnt that in the last few weeks, many residents took stray dogs for treatment in the  , (MAFSU) Nagpur and other veterinary institutes. Based on their statements and complaints by animal activists, the Gittikhadan police registered an FIR against the NGO and the doctor who was performing the operations. The offence has been registered under various sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960. 
 
 While activists alleged that the operations were performed unscientifically by untrained doctors, cops will be cross-checking the same after procuring footages of CCTV cameras that were installed at the centre. After conducting an enquiry, the police will initiate action in the matter. NMC officials said that appropriate action will be taken against the NGO. 
 
 Activists however fear that the entire process is going to be an eyewash again. “NMC broke the rules by not informing the monitoring committee about starting ABC operations. No meeting was held,” said Galani.
 
 Activist   stated that the standard operating procedures (SOP) laid down by the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) were not followed. 
 
 Recently, the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board ( ) had slammed the NGO for putting environment and human health in danger by violating Bio-medical Waste Management Rules, 2016 at the centre. Following a complaint filed by activist Ankita Shah regarding generation of large quantity of bio-medical waste at the shelter without authorization, a team of board officials had inspected the shelter and found that bio-medical waste was not stored in a scientific manner.
 
 
