HYDERABAD: Sunrisers' Hyderabad have much to ponder over ahead of the playoffs as their vaunted bowling attack came under tremendous pressure in the last two games. The table-toppers suffered back to back losses in high scoring games as the bowlers failed to stop the flow of runs and that gives the think tank some hard thinking to be done. 

 
 Most of the SRH campaign this season has revolved around their bowling attack as the team has defended some very low scores on way to their nine victories. But in the last one week, the bowling has been tore to shred by their rivals and that doesn't augur well for the team as the brace up for the business end of the tournament.
 
 The hosts will have a chance to get their act together against   in their last league engagement at the RGIC Stadium, here on Saturday night. Win or lose, SRH are assured of a top two-finish and hence there isn't much pressure on them. However, the game affords them an opportunity to smooth out some of the wrinkles that seem to have crept into their game.
 
 What is heartening for the hosts is that their batsmen have risen to the task as they showed in the previous game. Chasing a tough target, they put up a spirited fight with skipper Kane Williamson yet again leading from the front. Yet, Williamson will be hoping that his batsmen show more consistency than what they have shown thus far. The New Zealander has been a revelation this season as he has smashed eight half-centuries on way to amassing 625 runs to be placed second in the top run getters chart.
 
 The SRH skipper will, however, cherish yet another win under his belt before the tough challenge ahead of the team.
 
 The Knight Riders, on the other hand, have their fortunes in their hands. In what is a must-win game for them, the visitors will be hoping to exact revenge for the five-wicket loss they suffered at the hands of SRH at the Eden last month.
 
 The two-time champions will yet again look to leggie  , who kept their hopes alive with a four for 20 haul in their win over Rajasthan Royals. With 14 points in their kitty, KKR have to bag full points from this game to ensure their spot in the playoffs. A loss will put them at the mercy of the others as Mumbai Indians and Royal Challengers Bangalore have a better net run-rate than them.
 
 Dinesh Karthik's men, therefore, have their task cut out against SRH, who have been almost invincible in home conditions.
 
