

 
 
 Everything is centred around Stalin. Don’t other parties have their own political standing? Why should we attend such a meeting and eulogise Stalin? Is he M Karunanidhi? Stalin may assume he is Karunanidhi. If the meeting is convened by Kalaignar Karunanidhi, I would have been the first person to participate
 
 
 
 
 I never had a liking for him and my conscience never accepted Stalin. In fact, I wanted to meet Kalaignar, much before even others got to meet him. I had known Kalaignar for ages and directly tried to reach out. It did not happen. I tried other routes, but was asked to speak to Stalin for this. Later, got a call from his side, sometime around Diwali last year, saying they will get back. We followed it up. One day they said it is ‘Soorasamharam’ and not a good day to meet. We thought ok, maybe we need a good day to even call on someone who is ailing… After that I lost interest. Stalin planned and prevented me from meeting Kalaignar, even though I had sought to meet him much before others.
 
 
 
 
 I don’t know what his fears were, while I didn’t have any. I wanted to meet Kalaignar and enquire about his health. For the 2016 assembly election, people, on behalf of the DMK, negotiated with me for an alliance and we too were willing to consider it, if we got right share of seats. After days of negotiations, we wanted at least 60 seats, while they were willing to offer only 40. Had Stalin agreed for our condition on power-sharing, now both he and myself would have been ministers. Stalin had the best opportunity to become chief minister in 2016. He missed that and he can never again.
 
 
 
 
 Yes. All of them are with DMK and Stalin thinks they will make him chief minister again. Let them do it and let him become chief minister.
 
 
 
 
 Let another five more actors join hands with Kamal and Rajinikanth. Even then nothing will happen. They can keep talking and dreaming.
 
 
 
 
 It can be anyone. Rajinikanth is yet to launch his party. Let him first do that. Anybody could be backing Kamal Haasan. It can even be the DMK.
 
 
 
 
 BJP will not even win the Karnataka elections. You wait and see. Last time in the Lok Sabha they won about 282. Next time it will not be even 182. In their quest to capture states, they have lost sight and they will now start losing both the MPs as well as the states later. In Tamil Nadu, they have absolutely no chance of getting anything.
 
 
