MYSURU: As part of their efforts to be better prepared to handle flare-ups in communal tensions, and other incidents of civil unrest, Mysuru police are procuring new barricades, which are different in design to the existing ones. The   will also be used at public ceremonies such as village jathras and festivals, and for traffic management.

 It is hard not to overstate the role   play in ensuring order during protests and other tense situations, where they practically form the first line of defence for cops trying to keep an enormous mass of people at bay. However, Mysuru police believe that the single frame barricades currently in their possession are not very secure since instances of protesters managing to get past barriers set up by cops have been reported. Also, there have been complaints that the existing barricades are not easily visible, due to lack of indicators, leading to accidents in the night.
 
 Besides being a lot sturdier in comparison to the existing barricades, the new ones will also have wheels that are expected to come in handy whenever they have to be shifted around. Shaped like the roof of a hut at the top, they are called shelter barricades, which are likely to act as a shield for cops. Attached with a flasher, shelter barricades are also more visible at night. However, it is the ease with which they can be interlocked that makes the shelter barricades invaluable to police.
 
 Mysuru superintendent of police (SP)   told TOI that stronger barricades were the need of the hour. “We need barricades to restrict traffic movement when there are VIPs in town, during jathras, and to maintain law and order when a situation threatens to go out of control. But, with the existing set of barricades, there are a few challenges,” said Channananavar, adding that they had to arrange major   at least five to six times a year.
 
 Mysuru police decided to review the effectiveness of the existing barricades in the wake of the recent eruption of violence during the Hanuman Jayanti celebrations at Hunsur.
 
 Besides shelter barricades, as part of an infrastructure upgrade, Mysuru police will also procure body-mount cameras, and foldable chairs with siren, SP Channananavar said.
 
 Deputy Commissioner of police (Law and order), Mysuru city, N Vishnuvardhana, an IPS officer, too emphasized the importance of possessing barricades for maintenance of law and order in urban areas. “We have floated tenders for barricades for crowd control, heavy duty barricades and shelter barricades,” he added.
 
 Foldable chairs
 
 Cops deployed on bandobast duty need to stand for long durations since they do not have any seating facility. While top officers can rest in their official vehicles, constables are often forced to sit on the ground. It is to ensure that constables can rest during bandobast duty that Mysuru police are procuring foldable chairs.
 
 Body mount Cameras
 
 Considered to be of great value, body-mounted cameras can record incidents while cops are on duty. These cameras are expected to serve a two-fold purpose – besides aiding cops in collecting evidence, they are also likely to usher in accountability since any acts of misdemeanor by cops can be recorded. Once recorded, any officer using them, cannot erase the clip as it is protected. 
 
 
