NEW DELHI: Deputy chief minister Manish   on Sunday demanded adequate security arrangements in government schools and urged lieutenant governor Anil Baijal to ensure that action was taken against people involved in a recent attack on a teacher inside a school in Narela.

 In a letter written to   on Sunday, Sisodia referred to the attack on a teacher on February 21 by a mob. He claimed that several teachers were roughed up, abused and their phones damaged in the incident. Highlighting security issues in government schools, Sisodia claimed it was not a one-off incident. “Last year saw the brutal stabbing of a within the school premises,” he wrote.
 
 Sisodia said there were repeated complaints regarding the   of girl students and teachers at schools. He said thepolice had promised to depute beat constables and PCR vans at schools at the time of shift-change, but none of this had materialised. “It is a matter of grave concern if teachers are not safe within the premises of their school. Since Delhi Police comes under LG, I would request him to ensure that the swift action is taken in this case and adequate security arrangements are made for all government schools in Delhi (sic),” Sisodia stated.
 
 Sisodia referred to the alleged assault on chief secretary Anshu Prakash after which police had taken swift action against AAP MLAs. “Delhi Police has taken no-hold-barred action, including arrests within 24 hours, 50 police officers going for collecting evidence in the matter and the personal presence of DCP in court to ensure that the accused do not get bail (sic)”. He requested the lieutenant governor to ensure that Delhi Police “takes the same level of interest in the case of an assault on a teacher”.
 
 Sisodia said if this wasn’t done, it would send the message that security of teachers was far less important than that of IAS officers. “Since teachers build the future of our country, it is essential to make them feel that their security is of prime importance,” he wrote.
 
 
