After making her debut in South films eight years ago,   is completely focussed on making her mark in Bollywood. The actress has been dabbling in a variety of roles, in films like ‘Pink’ (2016), ‘Judwaa 2’ (2017) and the upcoming ‘Dil Juunglee’. What's giving her enthusiasm more wings is to see the audiences opening up to heroine-centric films, too. The actress, in a candid chat with BT, admits, “My films could be mindless entertainers or subjects which require introspection, but I want the audience to feel assured that if I have done something, then it’s worth their time and money.” Excerpts from the conversation…

  
 
 
  Once an actor is seen in a particular avatar, the tendency in the industry is to see them only in those kinds of roles. It’s convenient and perhaps, done to avoid experimentation. Luckily in my case, the audience accepted me in a hard-hitting film like ‘Pink’ (2016) as well as a commercial entertainer like ‘Judwaa 2’ (2017). 
 
  
 
 
  The audience has become intelligent and they don’t discard commercial films like ‘Golmaal Again’ and ‘Judwaa 2’, neither do they reject a Newton or a Hindi Medium, calling them art films. As an actress, it’s refreshing to see that the audience has opened up to films with a female protagonist. People are realising that a girl can be the hero of a film. Now, they don’t necessarily ask, ‘Hero kaun hai?’ Even a big star like   is concentrating on subjects that have not been tapped earlier. Also, if the industry doesn’t step up to give actors the opportunity to dabble in varied content, they will fall back on online platforms. Besides, actors have become far more fearless with their choice of roles.
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  The one thing that I want the audience to feel when they come to watch my films is that it’s worth the Rs 200 they have spent on it. That’s the only kind of taste I want them to cultivate. My films could be mindless entertainers or subjects which require introspection, but I want the audience to feel assured that if I have done something, then it’s worth their time and money.
 
  
 
 
  First of all, our culture is different from theirs. Many of the actresses out here are not from the film industry, and they might hesitate to address such issues because of their families. If they speak up about sexual harassment here, it might lead to a situation where it’s them versus the movie mafia. Many a times if they do speak up, it might also be considered a publicity stunt. Girls are judged more harshly than boys. I also feel that many girls have misused their power, so the others may fear that they might be accused of playing the victim card to gain sympathy. But if they don't speak up, then it perpetrates matters even further. We are in a weird situation. The one way to tackle it is to perhaps, be smart and deal with it in your own way.
 
  
 
 
  Though it’s been four years that I have been a part of the Hindi film industry, I have been an actor for close to eight years, having started my career in the South. I have seen way too many hits and flops. So, I am getting better at handling these things. I don’t think any actor can say, 'Mujhe toh farak hi nahi padta.' The actor is lying because something is wrong agar farak nahi padta. I have many releases this year and I am hoping kuch toh chal jayega. 
 
  
 
 
  I am not getting married anytime soon. When I do decide to get married, I want it to be away from the glare of the media. I like keeping my professional and personal lives separate; that’s one of the reasons I didn't pursue a relationship with anyone from the film industry.
 
  
 
 
