MUMBAI: A 20-year-old Jharkhand youth who stabbed a 27-year-old woman 15 times on a crowded Andheri foot over bridge on Wednesday night told cops that he killed her as she had got him arrested a year ago in a counterfeit currency case and also because he was in love with her and had pleaded with her repeatedly to stop working in a bar. 

 A crowd gathered on the bridge as the accused,  , repeatedly stabbed the victim,  , at around 9.30pm. A few eyewitnesses told cops that one man tried to save her but he ran down the stairs after sustaining knife injuries himself.
 
 Mohammed had reportedly come down to Mumbai eight days ago to look for Shaikh. He waited on the bridge near   on S V Road in Andheri (West) for almost an hour before he spotted her. 
 
 "Mohammed had come prepared. He had bought a knife in Mulund which he used to stab Shaikh. There are some discrepancies in his statement as on one hand he claimed to have killed the woman for revenge and on the other he said he was in love with her and wanted her to stop working in a bar," said a D N Nagar police officer. 
 
 Mohammed befriended the victim two years ago. "He left Mumbai some time back after his release on bail in the counterfeit notes case. He claimed to have returned to Mumbai to take revenge on the victim. He waited for her on the bridge and tried to talk to her. He got angry and repeatedly stabbed her when she declined to speak to him," said an officer. 
 
 Paramjit Singh Dahiya, deputy commissioner of police (Zone IX), said cops are trying to ascertain the exact motive for the crime. "Mohammed was previously arrested by Byculla police under IPC Section 489(B)(C) for counterfeit currency," said Dahiya.
 
  Shaikh lived in an Andheri slum and worked in a bar for two years after her second husband got her the job. She is survived by two children who have lived with her parents in Jharkhand since the collapse of her first marriage. Her first husband is currently in jail for a theft case in Kerala. D N Nagar police senior inspector   said Mohammed will be in police custody till April 16. 
 
