CHENNAI: A portion of   that was made one-way a few years ago following a Madras high court order has turned into a parking lot for autos, omni-vans, mini-trucks and mini-buses.

 While pedestrians are at a risk of being run over by vehicles on the busy stretch, traffic jams occur every hour due to the rush of vehicles which take a left after the   headquarters, on to South Mint Road and Nyniappa Street.
 
 Commuters have been demanding that Evening Bazaar Road became two-way to avoid the traffic congestion that flows on to South Mint Road and Nyniappa Street, and that commuters from EVR Periyar Road have access to it.
 
 A dozen two-wheelers seized by the traffic police remain parked next to a defunct traffic police booth outside the  , rusting away under the sun and rain. “Years ago, the Madras HC allowed this spot to be used for staging protests and demonstrations. But due to traffic snarls, it was disallowed. After that, the police failed to convert it into a two-way road, thus encroachments cropped up on the unused side. And now, traffic persists round the clock,” said K Anupam, a commuter. Traffic jams persist every hour due to the rush of vehicles moving from the road on to  , opposite the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital.
 
 Buses taking a turn towards   from Evening Bazaar Road often come at very high speeds towards the signal, making it risky for pedestrians and smaller vehicles, said Latha, a vendor at the signal.
 
 She said no officials come for inspection despite the high traffic that the road sees. Besides the parked vehicles, barricades can be seen but several squatters have put up homes by the road.
 
 While corporation officials were not available for comment, a city traffic police official said the plan to make the road two-way would not be feasible at the moment.
 
 “The Rattan Bazaar Road is already two-way and remains congested through the day. During peak hours, it is worse. If the Evening Bazaar route is made two-way, it would only lead to more traffic snarls on the interior streets, spilling over to the main roads in and around the area,” said the official, who disavowed knowledge of the vehicles parked on the road.
 
