 An interactive poetic theatre performance that encourages members of the audience to share the poems, composed by themselves or the ones of their favourite poets. These compositions are then translated into impromptu dramatic pieces by a set of actor-poets. Mostly a reflection of personal stories and experiences,   strives to touch upon the ills of society and the struggles that people face in their day-to-day life. An Art Cross Theatre Main production, the performance is directed and conducted by  .

 
 
 busy polling day in Bengaluru transposed into an evening of arz kiya hai, irshaads and wah-wahs, as kala-shayars took the stage to rekindle people’s love for poetic escape amid the humdrum of busy city life. The show started with Sumit cueing the spectators into a blend of verses and dramatics that unfolded on stage in five episodes, all following a similar pattern —the poet being invited to read out their complete poems or parts of it, immediately after which the actor-poets devise them into a performance, resonating the poet’s feelings and experiences through their own shayaris and acting skills. Personal stories like one friend reaching out to another in times of distress, a sister’s wise words after her brother breaks up with his girlfriend, an immigrant in a big city constantly feeling nostalgic about his hometown, how communal riots affect one’s psyche and the never-ending dilemma over what is right and what is wrong in life — managed to keep the audiences, both young and the elderly, patiently sitting through a two-hour long show on a Saturday evening.
 
 
 The setting and costume — complete with adequate lighting, vocals and background score — was nearly perfect for an evening of poems. The ease with which select members of the audience presented their poetry on stage and were enacted by the artistes in no time would, however, make one rethink the ‘spontaneous’ aspect of the show, which was, apparently, devised after two months of rehearsal. Making room for poems in other languages could have helped to add more flavour and diversity to the overall performance. Thanks to the enthusiastic members of the production team, there were quite a few rounds of applause and wah-wahs in between the acts. Nevertheless, the kala-shayars shined through all the acts, and so did the white bench on stage.
 
