GURUGRAM: A brother of a local leader from the   party was shot at by three bike-borne   in Hans Enclave on Tuesday at 8.10am.

 The 40-year-old victim, identified as Om Prakash Dagar, is a supplier of construction material. The three armed assailants had allegedly called him to his office on the pretext of buying construction material, but when Om Prakash arrived, they shot at him and fled on a TVS Star  . Om Prakash sustained three   and was rushed to Medanta hospital, where he is now said to be out of danger.
 
 According to a complaint filed by his brother and local Congress leader Dharambir Singh Dagar, he received a call at 8.25am from one of his acquaintances, Satbir Chauhan, telling him that Om Prakash had been shot at outside his office.
 
 “They trapped my brother on the pretext of purchasing construction material and reached his home which is on street number 7. They then asked him to meet them at his office in street number 4. The three men had already reached when my brother arrived. One of them was wearing a helmet. They were sitting on the bike. Two of them shot my brother thrice. He sustained bullet injuries on his abdomen, arm and stomach. Soon, Satbir along with the help of two other people, Sanjay and Ashok Khatan, rushed him to hospital. The people present there told me the assailants were riding a bike with registration number HR 26 BH 5077, and that they fled towards the highway,” Dharambir Singh said in his complaint.
 
 An FIR has been lodged against the three unknown persons under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 34 (common intention) of the IPC and sections 25-54-59 of the Arms Act at Sadar police station. After receiving the complaint, a police team led by Kuldeep Yadav, DCP (east) reached the crime scene and questioned locals.
 
 “We have registered an FIR and got major leads. The victim is out of danger and we are waiting to record his statement. We are investigating and hope to nab the accused soon,” said Sandeep Kumar, SHO, Sadar police station.
 
 Dharmbir Singh said his brother is still in ICU, adding that he suspects some rivalry behind the attack.
 
 
