THRISSUR: Replying to pointed criticism at the  's state conference against his advocacy of a tactical alliance with  , party general secretary   advised his Kerala comrades to reacquaint themselves with the party programme. 

 During the general debate on the political and organisational report,   national president   and A N Shamseer, MLA, vehemently criticised the move to have an alliance with Congress, both of them terming the move foolish and short-sighted. Reminding the conference that CPM is not a regional party confined to Kerala, Yechury appealed to Kerala comrades to view the political situation from a national perspective. He said the political situation of having Congress as the main enemy of CPM is a Kerala-specific reality and in other states the party should take appropriate tactical positions.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Giving a tit for tat reply to the criticism levelled by delegates against the tactical alliance advocated by him, CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury on Saturday told CPM workers in Kerala to read and understand the party programme carefully. Participating in the general debate on political and organisational report in the state conference, Yechury answered criticism raised by DYFI national president Mohammed Riyas and MLA A N Shamseer to clarify his position.
 
 Yechury, while endorsing the draft political resolution calling for equidistance from the Congress and the BJP, said the party programme of CPM clearly stated that BJP was a communal party guided by fascist RSS. The duty of CPM was to work for a grand alliance of secular forces to defeat the politics of communal divide trying to convert India into a Hindu nation, he said.
 
 During the discussion, Riyas and Shamseer vehemently criticised the move for an alliance with Congress calling it foolish and short-sighted.
 
 Sources said Yechury told both leaders that he had thought they might be well-versed in party programme. Stating that the CPM was not a regional party in Kerala, Yechury appealed to Kerala comrades to view political situation with a national perspective. He said the political situation of having the Congress as the main enemy of CPM was only a Kerala-specific reality and in other state the party should take tactical positions, considering that Congress had been weakened. He also said the party congress scheduled to be held in Hyderabad would be the final authority to decide on the political resolution.
 
 CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, in his reply to the discussion, said the CPM had not decided on inducting K M Mani into the LDF. Criticizing CPI state secretary Kanam Rajendran’s comments on the issue he said it was the duty of the CPM to weaken the UDF.
 
 Kodiyeri, replying to criticism by delegates, said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan would initiate steps for correction based on it. He was silent on demand by some delegates to sack non-performing ministers.
 
 The more than nine hourlong discussion was attended by 62 delegates including 13 women.
 
 
