PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Deputy commissioner of police   on Tuesday wrote to civic chief   regarding sites that seem feasible for the Pimpri   police commissionerate. 

 The shortlisted locations include the old DY Patil College (Technical School) at Masulkar colony, F Zone office at Nehrunagar in Pimpri, Mahatma Jyotiba Phule English Medium School at Premlok Park in Chinchwad, and Hedgewar Bhavan at Sector 26 in Pradhikaran.
 
 Senior police officials seem keen on the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule English Medium School building and have sought government rental rates, including furniture. Along with officials from the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), DCP Shinde had inspected six municipal offices as well as the new Pimpri Chinchwad New Township Development Authority (PCNTDA) building on March 23.
 
 The home department has proposed an expenditure of Rs323 crore for the police commissionerate that would cover a population of 22-23 lakh, including 4-5 lakh from rural areas located close to Pimpri Chinchwad. The Pune-Mumbai expressway, Pune-Mumbai highway, Pune-Nashik highway and Katraj-Dehu Road bypass will fall under the jurisdiction of the police commissionerate. A senior police official had earlier stated that the industrial belts in Pimpri Chinchwad are also politically sensitive. The number of gangs and organized crime are on the rise, making it imperative to have a full-fledged police machinery. 
 
 The Pimpri Chinchwad police commissionerate will cover approximately 625 sq km. The commissionerate will cover 15 police stations including Sangvi, Hinjewadi, Wakad, Pimpri, Chinchwad, Bhosari, MIDC Bhosari, Nigdi, Dighi, Chikhali, Chakan, Alandi, Dehu Road, Talegaon Dabhade, and Talegaon MIDC.
 
 Chinchwad MLA Laxman Jagtap had earlier said that the police commissionerate would be set up on the vacant floors of the new PCNTDA building. However, PCNTDA chief executive officer Satish Khadke had stated that all floors have been occupied. 
 
 Bhosari MLA Mahesh Landge had earlier said that the proposed police commissionerate would be built on the land allocated for the international business convention centre at   on the Pune-Nashik highway.
 
 
