Jaipur: Educationists have termed the budget high on rhetoric and far from addressing real issues.

 They called the recruitment of 77,100 teachers in different cadres a political stunt to gain mileage in the upcoming polls. Neither, the state has the financial capacity to hire teachers in such a high number nor does the recruiting agency has required staff and logistics to complete the hiring in a year time.
 
 “State has not seen a single new school in last four years. In fact, few thousand schools in excess have been closed due to rationalized of teachers. Can the government explain the need of adding 77,100 teachers? Asked Damodar Goyal, an educationist. He questioned that even the pupil-teacher ratio in the state is almost close to the national average, the announcement is a hollow which will not be fulfilled in a year time. The state government has recruited 67,961 teaching and non-teaching staff in the last four years.
 
 K B Kothari, managing trustee, Pratham NGO, feels that state has made a good progress by enrolling more children in primary schools. “The slow progress in quality of learning as recorded by ASER and National Achievement Surveys demands check from the state. The past four years along with this year budget support expansion of facilities, upgrading of schools, teachers recruitment but quality of teacher education, tanning and effective accountability measures are lagging behind,” said Kothari, who informed that Rajasthan spends less than 2% of the total budget on training which is among the least in the country.
 
 State continues to allocate budget for the construction of toilets and up gradation of schools. The private school associations have expressed disappointment for not doing anything for the private schools which are closing with every passing year. Kishan Mittal, secretary of the Swayamsevi Sasthan private schools (RBSE) are helping them in providing education under RTE. “Like other states, Raje government should have provided some relief from paying the hefty affiliation to recognition fees," said Mittal. 
 
 The allocation of Rs 233 crore for technical education is considered very less for fishing out technical education which is facing a crisis-like situation. 
 
 
