KOZHIKODE: State committee of Kerala Government Contractor's   is gearing up for an indefinite strike by boycotting all the repair and maintenance works of   from next month in protest against delay in clearing their pending arrears.

 Small scale government contractors under the Federation decided to launch indefinite strike as the KWA needs to clear pending dues of 14 months. The KWA authorities have not been taken steps to clear the pending bills of around Rs 100 crores of small scale contractors across the state in the various KWA divisional offices which was pending since 2016, November.
 
 The federation is planning to launch an indefinite strike by forming joint action council of various other unions in the sector as the members said that they are not in a position to carry out the work owing to fund crutch. The KWA is hiring government contractors to carry out immediate pipe leakages and major pipe bursts, motor repair and maintenance works.
 
 According to the Kerala Government Contractor's Federation, around 4,000 contractors were there under the federation. The federation decided to launch indefinite strike as the government failed to keep up the promise given to the federation about clearing pending dues. 
 
 K Shajan, president of KWA Kozhikode committee of Kerala Government Contractor's Federation said that the delay in clearing pending arrears of maintenance and repair works carried out by KWA contractors made their life miserable. Small scale contractors eke out a living by carrying out the repair and maintenance works of the KWA. KWA needs to clear pending bills of 14 months and the contractors are not in a position to carry out further work as many carried out the work by taking bank loan,'' he said,
 
 P  , state general secretary of Kerala Government Contractor's Federation said that the small scale contractors will start boycotting repair and maintenance works of KWA in the coming days. We will launch state wide indefinite strike in mid-February after forming joint action committee of various unions across the state. Effort has already been commenced to constitute joint action forum before commencing the indefinite strike,'' he said.
 
 
