CHANDIGARH/SHIMLA: Lt Gen D P Vats(retd) and Union health and family welfare minister, J P Nadda, who were chosen by the BJP as its nominee for Rajya Sabha seats in Haryana and Himachal, respectively, were on Thursday elected unopposed as no other contestant had filed nomination, an official said.

 The seat is currently held by   member Shadi Lal Batra, who is retiring on April 2. “...Vats has been duly elected to fill the seat in that House (Rajya Sabha) of a member retiring on April 2, on the expiration of his term,” the official said.
 
 Vats, 67, had filed his nomination on the last day of filing of papers on March 12. Thursday was the last date of withdrawal of candidature.
 
 The ruling BJP has 47 MLAs in the 90-member House and Vats was poised to win the seat comfortably. The INLD has 19 members, the Congress 17, the BSP and the SAD one each. There are five Independents.
 
 BJP’s Rajya Sabha members’ strength from Haryana has now increased to two. Union minister Birender Singh is the other RS member from the state.
 
 Media baron Subhash Chandra is an Independent member who was elected to the RS from the state in 2016.
 
 Indian National Lok Dal has one Rajya Sabha member from the state and once Batra retires on April 2, Congress would be left with just one RS member Kumari Selja.
 
 Vats, who hails from Hisar, had served as the director and commandant of the prestigious Armed Forces Medical College, Pune. He also served as the chairman of the   between May 2011and April 2012 during the Bhupinder Singh Hooda-led Congress government in the state.
 
 Meanwhile, Union health and family welfare minister, J P Nadda on Thursday was re-elected for the Rajya Sabha for the second consecutive term from Himachal Pradesh. He received the certificate of nomination from the electoral returning officer at HP Vidhan Sabha in the presence of chief minister Jai Ram Thakur.
 
 The Congress had not fielded any candidate against him. As Rajya Sabha MP, his present term comes to an end on April 2. After his re-election, Nadda thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, BJP national president Amit Shah and the state Congress.
 
 Nadda said he would continue to raise the issues concerning Himachal Pradesh in the Parliament. He said the Centre was providing liberal financial assistance to ensure the development of the state. He said be it the opening of   or other medical institutions or 69 national highways for the state, the Centre had provided every possible help to Himachal.
 
 Chief minister Thakur said Nadda’s election to the Rajya Sabha would propel the speed of development in the state.
 
 Speaker Dr Rajeev Bindal, deputy speaker Hans Raj, irrigation and public health minister  , education minister Suresh Bhardwaj, state BJP president  , state BJP organising secretary Pawan Rana, Shimla mayor Kusum Sadret, Nadda’s wife Mallika Nadda and other party workers were also present on the occasion.
 
