Stock markets in India opened on a flat note on Tuesday as majority of the Wall Street indices finished off in negative territory and Dow Industrials losing about 14 points in the end. Early indicators of SGX Nifty Futures, NSE Nifty changed a bit, down 0.16 per cent at 10,605 on Singapore Exchange. In the middle of the ongoing earnings season, India’s telecom giant   is likely to announce its financial results for the quarter and the year ended March 31, 2018 later in the day. 
Moreover, other major companies that are scheduled to report their Q4 results include GIC Housing Finance,  ,   Life, Reliance Home Finance, Raymond, HUDCO, Persistent Systems, Tinplate, TV18 Broadcast, Bharat Immunologicals, DCM Shriram, India Grid Trust, Zensar Tech, Coromandel International, Network18 Media, Tejas Networks, Supreme Petrochem, Oberoi Realty, Pioneer Distilleries, Sadbhav Engineering and TRF.
 
 
 
 
  Airtel is all set to announce their network expansion plans for Gujarat in order to strengthen its mobile broadband footprint with a rollout of nearly 6,000 new sites and 2,000 kilometres of the optic fibre in the current financial year.
 
 
 
 Hindustan Copper has signed an MoU with Manganese Ore (India) Ltd (MOIL) for the Malanjkhand Copper Project, with an aim to create long-term business synergy for both the organisations.
 
 
 
    (RInfra) on Tuesday reported a 291 per cent rise in consolidated net profit for the quarter ended March at Rs 160.14 crore on the back of higher revenues.
 
 
 
 LIC Housing Finance reported a rise of merely 2 per cent in its net profit at Rs 539.33 crore in the quarter ended March, which was primarily because of the rise in bad loans.
 
 
 
  Reliance Naval and Engineering standalone loss went up to Rs 408.6 crore for the quarter ended in March 2018 as compared to a loss of Rs 139.92 crore in the period last year.
 
 
 
 Bharti Infratel’s consolidated net profit rose 2 per cent to Rs 606 crore for the fourth quarter ended March 2018, impacted by some telecom operators closing or merging their businesses.
 
