While most couples who found love inside the   had different plans post the show,   11 contestants   and   are confident about their love for each other. They recently moved in together in a bungalow in the suburbs of Mumbai. This came about when   decided to relocate from Delhi to pursue his career in Mumbai.

 Says Bandgi, “Puneesh used to stay in hotels whenever he came to Mumbai. After we found that we were compatible with each other, we realized that it was no point in maintaining a long distance relationship. We would have easily grown apart if he had continued staying in Delhi and I, in Mumbai. Live-in is the best solution as we want to get to know each other well and be ready to take our relationship to the next level."
 
 While the couple have now moved in with each other, rumours of the two being thrown out of their house had emerged in February, when Puneesh had allegedly gotten into an argument with the watchman of the building. Quashing rumours,   says, “Nothing like this has happened. We are happy with the place and the owner even visits us. The society, too, has no problem with us living-in together.”
 
 The couple, however, has not plans to tie the knot immediately. Puneesh says, "We are as good as being married. Why do we need a stamp to get married?" he asks, adding, "In fact, my parents are happy that we are together. Bandgi will see to it that I am disciplined. I was missing her very much after the show got over. The thought of living separately in different cities was too much to ask for.” 
 
 Bandgi also echoes the same sentiment. She says, “My parents haven’t said anything about my staying with Puneesh, so I am assuming that they are okay with it. Marriage is just a formality these days. It's important to be compatible. We wanted to discover how we will be with each other when we face the outside world. In the house, it was only a few people with us and we had to face them."
 
 The two plan to focus on their careers for now. Puneesh says, “I am getting many offers to act. We are also getting offers to host shows together. So, we just want to enjoy our lives and enjoy the moments together.” Bandgi adds, “The earlier seasons of Bigg Boss had couples who paired up because they had a plan further to encash on their popularity. We don’t have any such plan. We are for real and people will know that.”
 
