QUEPEM: The issue of a fish meal plant in   industrial state set temperatures soaring in Cuncolim municipal council (CMC) on Wednesday, after opposition councillors and citizens confronted chairperson   in her office for issuing a no-objection certificate (NOC) to the plant in a non-transparent manner.

 Six councillors from the 12-member council alleged that the chairperson along with another councillor Mario   allegedly granted the approval to VIVA Marine Impex for setting up a new plant without discussing the matter with the councillors.
 
 The six councillors plan to submit a letter to the director of municipal administration, with a request to initiate legal action against the chairperson, including her dismissal from the chairperson’s post.
 
 Former chairperson   along with Anjela Luis Painginkar, Kiran Naik, Penzy Coutinho, Ashok Fadte and   asked the chairperson to convene a council meeting immediately in the interest of the public. The issues of taking legal action, revoking the NOC and to halt all formalities as per the municipal act could figure at the meeting.
 
 Opposition councillors will also submit a letter to the vigilance department against persons involved in the illegal decision.
 
 All the opposition councillors said that on April 7, 2017, the previous council headed by Mascarenhas had adopted a resolution not to allow a fish meal plant and other polluting units in the industrial estate.   and Moraes allegedly bypassed the resolution and granted the NOC on April, 24 for the fish meal company, alleged the councillors.
 
 Earlier, the fish meal company owner, Mohhamed Saud had applied to the investment promotion and facilitation board to allot 9,000 sqm of Goa industrial development corporation (GIDC) land. But his request was turned down, as CMC had not issued the approval. But the owner applied again on April, 20, and CMC issued the NOC on April 24. 
 
 “The NOC was issued without the chief officer’s signature,” a councillor alleged.
 
 When confronted by the councillors and other citizens, Carneiro and Moraes accepted their mistake, and blamed one of the councillors for misguiding them. 
 
 The chairperson also said she will withdraw the NOC within 24 hours.
 
 Four councillors along with Cuncolim residents later filed a complaint with Cuncolim police against the chairperson and her co-councillor.
 
 
