At the crack of dawn, the alarm goes off at Supriya Banerjea’s (in her late 60s) apartment in  . It is   today and the homemaker has instructed her house help to keep the house organised and clean while she will be in the kitchen preparing the nolen gurer payesh (kheer cooked with rice and date palm jaggery). The wafting aroma of the special payesh from her kitchen will signify new beginnings. Supriya, who has made Pune her home for the last 35 years, will roll out a lavish spread of   delicacies for guests at the dining table today, which she has decorated tastefully overlooking a grand painting by modernist Jamini Roy. That’s the kind of enthusiasm   brings out for Bengali families living in Pune. 

 
 
 Former educationist Shikha Mitra will be on her toes since morning as she is preparing the Nobo Borsho special food. Her kitchen exudes the aroma of freshly prepared Bengali cuisines. She says, “The Bengali penchant for enjoying good food comes through best on Poila Baisakh. I will be preparing sweet dishes because it's thought to be a good omen to start the year with mishtanna, or traditional sweets such as rosogollas, payesh, sandesh, kalakand and ras malai. The Nobo Borsho cuisine for lunch, of course, contains various preparations of fish and rice like malai chingri, ilish fish cooked in mustard, kosha mangsho, pulao etc. which I prepare freshly at home. Though in Kolkata the celebrations are grand, we don’t miss going to the Bengal as in Pune, the pomp and gaiety of Poila Boisakh is same here.” 
 
 “I have been living in Pune for 35 years and Poila Baisakh takes me back to my childhood in Kolkata. It is a nostalgic beginning for all probashi Bangalis (Bengalis living outside their state). Now I celebrate Nobo Borsho with my friends who became family in Pune, with the same enthusiasm,” says Supriya Banerjea, who is wearing a Dhakai jamdani sari today for the occasion.
 
 Like her, one of the oldest Bengali families in Pune, Bireswar Mitra and wife Shikha Mitra, are equally happy. They are expecting a phone call from New York City. Their daughter who lives in the Big Apple calls on special occasions to wish her parents Nobo Borsho and seek their blessings. It is a day that brings the Mitra family together via phone. This  , they have a guest from Kolkata too. Susmita Saha, Shikha’s cousin, flew down for the occasion and the family is eagerly waiting to visit one of the oldest Bengali associations in Pune, Nandanik Sanstha in Koregaon Park, to bask in the cultural festivities organised by the community. “Though we are living outside Kolkata, we have kept our tradition alive. Today, we wear new clothes, exchange sweets and pleasantries with friends and acquaintances. Younger people touch the feet of elders and seek their blessings for the coming year. Near and dear ones send gifts and greeting cards to each other. These gifts are often handmade and based on Bengali themes,” says the executive director of a motor company Bireswar Mitra, who is living in Pune since 1981.
 
 
 
 
 The older generation of Bengalis living in Pune celebrate New Year with each other’s families as their children are living abroad. The entire community comes together today in celebration, to begin the year with joy. Supriya Banerjea says, “What unites all Bengalis living in Pune, irrespective of their faith, is our rich culture. We usher in the New Year with Rabindranath Tagore’s musical invocation, Esho hey Baisakh esho esho (Come Baisakh, Come O Come!) which is common to Bengali Hindus and Muslims.”
 Testimony to that, is Laali Rahman from Dhaka, who is doing her masters in business administration at SPPU. But she is celebrating Poila Baisakh or Pahela Baisakh as it is pronounced in Bangladesh, with her Bengali friends in Pune. “Back in Dhaka, we have a national holiday on Poila Baisakh. We start our day with namaz and savour payesh and sweets. We celebrate the day with the same exuberance as our West Bengal friends. And in Pune, we are wearing Dhakai saris just the way we do at home and visiting a Bengali restaurant to relish all the Poila Baisakh delicacies,” says Laali.
 
 
 
 Durba De and her husband moved to Pune last year. Recollecting her initial experience, she shares, “I had problems adjusting when I first came to Pune, with a language barrier. I didn’t know whom to talk to and hardly had any Bengali friends to have the typical ‘adda’ with.” Being her first Poila Baisakh in Pune, she says, “Until last year, I was celebrating the festivities with my in-laws back in my hometown. There, we woke up early got dressed in new clothes and received blessings from our elders. My mother-in-law and I cooked sumptuous food throughout the day. From bhapa ilish to chingri macher malai curry and from dhokar daalna to luchi, we prepared the meals by ourselves. Being probashi, you don’t get all the fish or the typical Bengali masalas for cooking. But nonetheless, I will prepare Bengali food for lunch this year. Chicken kosha, pulao, bhetki maach and sweets are in store for this year’s lunch menu.” Debabrata De, Durba’s husband, says, “When I moved to Pune with Durba last year, I had no idea that there are so many Bengalis here with whom we could connect. I could connect with Bengali friends through Facebook. That is when I came across various Bengali communities in Pune organising cultural programs. Poila Baisakh is all about eating to our heart’s content, celebrating with cultural programs and loads of adda with family and friends. It is satisfying to know that you wouldn’t miss home much because you have a Bengali community to attend the function with.
 
 Durba, who has grown up in a traditional Bengali family in Tripura, recalls one of her childhood memories, “My grandmother would wake up early in the morning to make narkel sandesh and payesh. The aroma of the cooking woke me up and my eagerness to taste them knew no bound. The most awaited moment for the New Year was wearing new clothes. My grandmother gave them to us and we all visited the temple in our new clothes. You tend to miss your family. But this year, I will visit the Khadki Kali Bari since my brother is in town.”
 
 Nabarun Nandy, who visited her sister Durba for vacation in Pune, says, “We would miss our parents and their blessings on Poila Baisakh, but I am glad that I will get to spend New Year with my elder sister and her family. I am looking forward to visiting the Kali temple. The food and adda are constant, so I would be relishing the delicacies she prepares and indulge in gossip and attend the cultural program in the evening.”
 
 
 
 
