BHOPAL: The ubiquitous   depicting moral gestures —- see no evil, speak no evil, and hear no evil— seems to have lost in the Union government records. In an RTI-reply to Madhya Pradesh-based RTI activist Rajiv Khare both the Prime Minister and the Union culture ministry failed to gave a satisfactory reply with regard to a query— ‘Where are the three-monkey figurine that was kept by Mahatma Gandhi now. What was the metal that they were made of”? 

 The Prime Minister’s   said the information is not related to the PMO but it pertains to other departments and offices of Union government, subsequently Khare moved a petition before culture ministry but there too he did not get any replies—- neither yes or no. Therefore the activist made a first appeal with the Union culture department to procure the information about ‘teen bandar’. ‘Teen bandar’ is ‘cultural heritage’ of India, and is dear to the people of the country,” said Khare.
 
 “But the due time for reply against the first appeal is also coming to an end, and the union ministry of culture has not replied to my query yet. I will now move an appeal before the chief information commissioner to pursue the matter till the end”, said the RTI activist.
 
 “The three-monkey figurine are our cultural heritage and it is absurd that information regarding it is not being provided by departments like culture and the PMO,” Khare said. 
 
 It is noteworthy that the small three monkey figurine was among the few belongings of Mahatma Gandhi that always remained with him. 
 
 However, the the photo division of ministry of information and broadcasting on its website notes that   considered the moral symbols as his teachers.
 
 A caption of the picture containing personal belongings of Mahatma Gandhi which are on the photo division’s website reads, “A photograph of the few personal possessions which Mahatma Gandhi has left to the world and spoons appear in the picture along with his favourite book of songs and the figurine of the three monkeys whom he used to call his gurus. The Monkeys symbolizes the injunctions to speak on evil, to see on evil and the hear no evil.”
 
 
