Visakhapatnam: The Centre for   Environmental Effects -   and Development (E3-R&D) in the city, owned by the Union ministry of communications and IT, is on track to be operational either by   or April this year if everything goes according to plan. 

 Equipment for the high-tech laboratory is being imported from countries like Switzerland, officials said.
 
 Vizag’s E3 R&D is the first of its kind in India aimed at conducting research in the field of electromagnetic interference (EMI) and compatibility required for various devices right from mobile phones to ships and aircraft.
 
 Mumbai-headquartered Society for Applied Microwave Electronics Engineering and Research (SAMEER) is establishing the centre. SAMEER is an autonomous body of the Department of Electronics and Information Technology under the Union ministry of communications and IT.
 
 “The R&D   at this centre is currently conducting trial runs of electromagnetic modelling related to computers. Some industries from Bengaluru are already using the devices modelled here as part of the trial run. However, it will only become fully operational by March or April this year,” said B Subba Rao, director of SAMEER’s Vizag unit.
 
 “Nearly Rs 53 crore was spent out of a total of Rs 80 crore so far in the first phase, which is ready to be operational. In the second phase, the building construction is ongoing and it would be completed by December 2018 or the first quarter of 2019,” Subba Rao told TOI.
 
 “Nearly 20 M Tech students in the field of electromagnetic technology from nearby colleges like Andhra University, Gayatri Vidya Parishad, Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University-Kakinada’s Vizianagaram campus are currently working at this centre on research projects,” Rao said.
 
 “The R&D complex is useful for the Indian Navy and some other core sectors. However, everything is confidential and we cannot divulge details before the official operation of the unit,” Rao added.
 
 This E3 centre is being built on 13 acres of land at Gambheeram, on the city outskirts along NH-16 towards Srikakulam from Vizag city. The land was allotted on September 29, 2014 by the state government and local authorities like Vuda and GVMC. The unit is a prestigious project, say government officials.
 
 Construction work began in April-May, 2016. The Central Public Works Department is taking care of the construction work.
 
 
