KOCHI: When it comes to the   ( ) that must be submitted for  ,   topped the chart by submitting the same within three days.   came last with an average of 16 to 17 days.

 
 This turnaround is significant as DGP Loknath Behera had said in 2017 that the aim was to reduce the number of days to four. This was after Kerala police had launched the E-VIP app in Malappuram to streamline police verification process and cut down time.
 
 Still, many police stations have not met the set target. But compared to 2017, the regional passportoffice(RPO)in Cochin has reported an improvement in the average days within which PVRs have been completed. While in 2017 around 86% were completed within the mandated21days; ason in May2018, it has reached 98%.
 
 “We have been organizing regular programmes with policemen to ensure that PVR is prepared as soon as possible. Though government has given 21 days, PVR can be submitted much earlier ensuring speedy issuance of passport,” said regional passport officer Prasanth Chandran.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Ernakulam rural that receives over 2,500 passport applications a month for PVR, now issues it within 3 days, while Ernakulam city, which handles half the number of applications (compared to rural), completes PVR in 16 days. Also, unlike rural police, city police are not able to submit all PVRs within 21 days.
 
 A few years ago (as on December 2015), both Ernakulam city and rural police used to be way behind the target. While Ernakulam city police’s average for finishing PVR was 24 days, it was 28 for rural. “PVR has to besubmittedwithin 21 days and we are doing it within the stipulated time,” said Kochi commissioner P Dinesh.
 
 Though in Kottayam the average PVR is done in 17 days, it completes all PVRs within the mandated period of 21 days. But, Ernakulam city police have failed to achieve the 100% target when it comes to completion of PVR within the stipulated 21 days.
 
 As on May 2018, city police have only achieved 96% of the set target. In contrast, in all other places—Alappuzha, Ernakulam rural, Idukki, Kottayam,Palakkad,Thrissur city and rural – all of which fall under RPO Cochin, they have achieved 100% target.
 
 After Ernakulam city, it is Alappuzha with 14 days followed by Idukki with 10 days. On the other hand, Thrissur city and rural with five and eight days, respectively, fare better than others.
 
