KRISHNAGIRI: The mango farmers across the district were a happy lot till a week ago, thanks to the good yield reported after a gap of three years. But their dreams of a decent harvest and profit margins were dashed in the hailstorm that hit the district recently. 

 
 According to the farmers in the region, more than 50 tonnes of mangoes were completely damaged due to the hailstorm. And now, they are dumping the rotten mangoes in the open lands. The farmers have estimated the loss at Rs 15 lakh. 
 
 “Mangoes hit by hailstorm develop dark marks and merchants won’t buy them,” said P Jayapal, president, Mango and other   in Salem.
 
 This year, farmers had cultivated mangoes on nearly 40, 000 hectares land spread across Bargur, Kaveripattinam, Soolagiri, Kelamangalam, Thally, Hosur and Uthangarai areas of the district. The main verities that were cultivated in the region included senthura, alphonso, neelam, bengaloora, imam pasand, kalapad, malgoa and mallika.
 
 Farmers said they were expecting a good harvest this year as the mango flowers hadn’t withered much and they had grown into fruits. “Since the beginning of this mango season, we have realised moderate profit unlike the previous years when it was comparatively low,” said  , a farmer.
 
 In the case of mango, the average yield per hectare (2.45 acre) in the district is seven tonnes. However, the district had realised only 2.92 tonne in the past three years. Since March last week, mango farmers had reported a yield of at least 10 tonnes per hectare.
 
 “But more than 50 tonnes mangoes were damaged due to the hailstorm that hit Bargur, Soolagiri, Berigai and Hosur areas. This is a huge setback,” said S Siva, another farmer.
 
 Jayapal, meanwhile, explained that mangoes hit by hailstorm would develop black marks and they won’t taste sweet. Both the pulp units and the merchants won’t buy such mangoes, he added.
 
 Pointing out that they have lost a major chunk of their produce, the farmers have demanded compensation from the district administration and the state government.
 
