JAIPUR: Pollution level has spiked in five cities of   and air quality has failed to meet National Air Quality Standards as per the   (CPCB) report. 

 Prominent cities from the state, including Alwar, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota and Udaipur, are among the 94 cities in the country where pollution levels are not meeting the set standards. As per the board, not a single city in the state meets the standards for PM10 (coarse particles). 
 
 The fear for residents of these cities of having respiratory disease is on rise as these particles penetrate deeply into the respiratory tract and therefore constitute a risk for health by increasing mortality from respiratory infections and diseases, lung cancer, and selected cardiovascular diseases.
 
 Additional superintendent at SMS hospital, Ajit Singh who is specialised allergy doctor says, “PM10 particles include dust from roads and industries as well as toxic particles and from vehicular emission including carbon monoxide etc. Depending on their size, they can lodge in the trachea (windpipe) or in the bronchi (airway passages in the respiratory tract). Moreover they are also dangerous for the skin,” he said.
 
 CPCB has analysed the data of Rajasthan cities crossed dangerous PM10 and nitrogen dioxide (NO2) levels between 2011 and 2015.
 
 Based on the ambient air quality monitoring, Rajasthan was among 22 ‘non-attainment’ other states which have failed to meet the prescribed parameters was compiled by the board. “The state is considered as non-attainment after it failed to meet the parameters for five consecutive years,” informed an official at  . 
 
 As urbanization is rapidly increasing in the state, the board has blamed encroachments and haphazard parking for high nitrogen dioxide emissions in urban areas. Moreover, increase in number of vehicles especially in Jaipur, state capital has also raised worries for civic authorities and environmental experts.
 
 “The city already has about 2 million vehicles and adds nearly 400 vehicles a day to its existing fleet,” said a transport department official.
 
 A Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) official on the condition of anonymity, said, “In absence of any state government's policy to control the increase of vehicles on many arterial roads, the traffic volume has exceeded the designed capacity and service level of the road. The mass transportation project such as Metro are biting dust since many years.” 
 
 A survey conducted by JDA indicated that the rise in the number of private vehicles has affected the traffic speed with the average plummeting to 19 kmph or even slower at certain stretches. “ This clearly shows in Jaipur, the number of vehicles has increased manifolds , which has resulted high pollution,”
 
 According to CPCB, unscientific disposal of waste has led to major air pollution in almost all 94 cities including the cities of Rajasthan . It was stressed construction activities without mitigation measures and open burning are responsible for increasing PM10 levels. 
 
 
