PANAJI: An internal circular issued to police station heads across Goa warns personnel against taking cases related to senior citizens lightly. Referring to the recent case of an 88-year-old woman from Vasco, who was physically tortured by her daughter-in-law, it states that though medical examination of the elderly citizen revealed that she had sustained injuries to her shoulder, hand and hip bone as a result of being assaulted with a stick, the   police station had booked a non-cognisable offence at first.

 The directives, which were issued late last year, questioned police personnel as to why they were shying away from registering complaints under the   of Parents and Senior Citizens Rules, 2009.
 
 "Even incidents of grievous hurt or serious injuries are given the shape of non-cognisable offences and victims are directed to approach the court of law. Thus, the accused persons go scot-free as elders at advanced age fear to approach the court, being unable to spend money on advocates, and the matter ends there," the circular signed by recently transferred deputy inspector general of police, V A Gupta stated.
 
 The directives stated that complaints by senior citizens should be 'promptly' attended to by the station incharge. 
 
 Your attention is drawn here to one such case of physical torture reported at Vasco police station, wherein an old woman aged 88 was badly manhandled by her daughter-in-law at Vaddem, Vasco. The son of the   approached the Vasco police station to lodge the complaint of assault on his mother and it was surprising to note that the head constable on duty registered a non-cognizable complaint under Section 323 IPC. 
 
 The act committed by the accused comes under the purview of Goa Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Rules, 2009,” the circular said. That the case was later chargesheeted makes it amply clear that the senior citizen had been assaulted by her daughter-in-law ‘with a stick all over her body’, Gupta said.
 
 Superintendents of police have been asked ‘to impart knowledge of the case of protection of life and property of senior citizens and other connected offences to police officers’. “The investigation (in cases related to protection of life and property of senior citizens) is to be carried out by the police officer not below the rank of police sub-inspector/assistant sub-inspector (male/female),” the circular said.
 
 
