NEW DELHI: Jasmine takes gingerly steps down the steep slope of the   lugging along the bits and pieces she has scavenged from the garbage though the day. Atop the 50-metre-tall mound, hundreds of other   are still combing through the fresh dump that came by truck from  . At the house of 19-year-old Mohammad Murshid nearby, the recently installed portable pollution detector indicates dangerous levels of pollution, but for Jasmine and her colleagues, livelihood trumps health.

 The pollution readings at the smouldering landfill showed readings of 721 for PM10 and 464 for PM2.5 on Thursday, both levels that are severely harmful to humans. On the eve of Republic Day, the 18-year-old Jasmine and the others had something to be thankful for though, even if temporarily, when NGO Chintan distributed over 250 pollution masks among them. “We agree this is not a real solution, only a desperate survival plan for the people who clean our cities,” explained Chitra Mukherjee, who heads Chintan.
 
 Several thousand people sell recyclable items they retrieve from the garbage for a living. Murshid has spent all his life working at Bhalswa. “We ascend the mountain of trash at 5am and start picking through the muck for polythene milk packs, other plastics, bottles. These may be filth for most people, but they fetch us Rs 250-300 every day,” said the teenager. As for the  , he said it was thoughtful of Chintan, but “we have already inhaled so much toxic air that it hardly matters now”.
 
 Mohammad Azizul, however, was more optimistic. “It is providing me some relief,” he testified. “They said it would remain good for a month. Using a plain cloth mask doesn’t stop the stench or the smoke.” The mask — a 3M 9332-Aura respirator — filters particulate matter and can last up to two months. “Each costs around Rs 250 in the market,” informed Rajat Rai Handa of Chintan, who was overseeing the distribution.
 
 But with the air filled with soot and smoke, toxic leachate flowing through drains and constant exposure to the garbage, how useful could these masks be for the people? “Besides providing temporary relief, our mask campaign also highlights the vulnerability of these people who should be brought into the mainstream by incorporating them into the garbage management system. The ultimate solution is segregation of waste at source by the city residents,” said Handa, as he flinched to see the PM10 reading breaching the 900 mark.
 
 Chintan procured the masks through crowdfunding. “People donated over Rs 50,000 for this project that we called the Help Waste Pickers Breathe Campaign. We will continue the drive and the donation platform will remain open for more contributions,” revealed Handa.
 
 Despite the landfill having long outlived its life and its capacity, the North Delhi Municipal Corporation has been unable to shut it down. North Delhi generates over 4,000 million tonnes of solid municipal waste every day, half of which is dumped at Bhalswa. The rest is sent to fuel the Narela-Bawana waste-to-energy plant. Talking about how to possibly ease the burden on Bhalswa, a corporation official said, “We have urged the authorities at the waste-to-energy plant to increase intake by 500 MT.”
 
 Other officials said that last year’s disaster of the garbage mound at the Ghazipur landfill toppling and killing two people meant the region’s trash could no longer be dumped there and Bhalswa could not be closed down. Not surprisingly then, the capital’s largest garbage dump will continue to pollute with its smoky, toxic fumes — with the waste pickers exposed fully to them.
 
 
