Madurai: A day after TOI published a report on the quality of drinking   provided in the   and the Meenakshi Amman temple, the authorities of the   and the temple sent water samples for testing.

 The airport authorities, who have even got the test reports in just one day, said the test results show the water quality was fine.
 
 TOI had drawn water samples meant for public consumption from various places in the city, including the temple and airport and given them for testing in a private lab accredited by the NABL (National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories) in the city on January 13. The results revealed alarmingly high presence of coliform bacteria in the airport sample. Water is supplied at 11 points inside and outside the terminal building.
 
 The test results showed the water sample from the airport contained total coliform of MPN 1,600 per 100 ml. Bacterial strains were also found in the water taken from the temple, which had only MPN 7 per 100 ml. . According to the standards set by the World Health Organisation there should no e coli presence in the water meant for human consumption.
 
 E coli is commonly found in the lower intestine of warm blooded organisms. Most strains are harmless, but some serotypes can cause food poisoning. E coli is expelled from the body through fecal matter.
 
 Head of zoology department from   S Dinakaran said, “the presence of coliform bacteria in high degree shows that the water is contaminated with fecal particles. Or it can be due to irregular cleaning of the tanks and filters used in the RO unit.”
 
 Madurai airport director VV Rao said, “We drew samples on Thursday and tested them both in private as well as government labs. The report we got on Friday evening shows that there is no presence of total coliform or fecal coliform.”
 
 The temple authorities have sent water samples for testing to the   board. Joint commissioner of the temple N Natarajan said, “We have collected samples on Friday from all the eight points where water is supplied by the temple. These were sent to the TWAD board and we expect the result in around 10 days,” he said.
 
 He said that the water available in the temple is provided by the civic corporation. They purify the water in RO units before providing it to the public for consumption. The filters are changed once in three months. In some seasons, when there the consumption is higher, the filters are changed once in two months, he said.
 
 
