CHENNAI: Motorists commuting through   will have to endure traffic congestion till next year as the bridge work on the Madhavaram Bypass to Anna Nagar stretch will be delayed by another eight months. The 1km bridge, constructed on Jawaharlal Nehru Road by the highways department, which was scheduled to be thrown open for traffic in July this year has now been pushed to March 2019. 

 Leo, a resident of Vinayagapuram near Retteri, said the pace of the construction of the second bridge was not on a par with the facility on the   stretch. "There appears to be inordinate delay in the construction when compared with the work on the other side of the road. This junction faces acute traffic jam during the 'Muhurtham' days (auspicious days for conducting weddings) as the area is dotted with marriage halls," he said. Traffic comes to a standstill at the junction for at least 20 minutes on such days, he added.
 
 Locals say that nearly 25 marriage halls are operating in the vicinity of Retteri Junction, of which five halls are located on the arterial Jawaharlal Nehru Road. 
 
 The highways department completed the construction of the first phase of the bridge at Retteri Junction and it was thrown open for traffic in December 2016. A pedestrian subway is also under construction across Jawaharlal Nehru Road. While 52.75 crore was earmarked for the bridge and the subway, the flyover on the Madhavaram Bypass to Anna Nagar stretch is being constructed at a cost of 29.12 crore. 
 
 A Balasubramani, founder president of  , says that steps have been taken to regulate the traffic and to reduce traffic snarls at the junction. "But the government must remove the encroachment on the water body on either side of the road to ease the traffic," he added.
 
 Official sources in the highways department said that issues over shifting electricity board utilities and   water pipelines delayed the construction work. "Moreover, we have made some changes in the design of the bridge. The construction work will be completed by March next year," the official said.
 
 
