AHMEDABAD: Voice analysis plays a major part in solving crimes related to threat or ransom calls, lewd calls, or prank calls to city and state police control rooms. Can a person’s background affect the way he or she speaks  ? Can the difference be measured?

 A paper titled ‘A comparative study on dialectal variations in Gujarati population’ by  , a student of   (GFSU), along with Dr   and Dr M S Dahiya, elaborated on the question. According to her study, there are origin-specific linguistic features in speakers of Gujarati and the difference, especially in the pronunciation of vowels (a, aa, ee, u…), can be measured statistically.
 
 “A total of 45 samples were collected from speakers of primarily three classes — native speakers, those who are not from Gujarat but have been settled here for many years and can speak Gujarati fluently, and those who have migrated from other places and can converse in the language,” Singh said. “The samples were recorded and were analyzed with forensic tools to understand voice frequency and other characteristics.” 
 
 Singh said that the participants were asked to speak about themselves and their family.
 
 The voices’ formants (distinctive frequency components of the acoustic signal produced by speech or singing) were analyzed and it was found that the manner of articulation and the length of articulation greatly varied among speakers.
 
 Dialect clues: Reading between the lines
 
 The spoken language has dialects, but can the written language have one? What factors make a person’s writing style distinctive? Do factors such as region, educational profile, and age affect the way Gujarati is written in the state?
 
 A paper titled ‘Identification of regional belonging of writer through examination of dialectical feature in Gujarati handwritten documents’ presented by Amisha Dave, a student of Raksha Shakti University (RSU) and Dr Sumeet Choudhary, elaborates on the topic.
 
 Investigating agencies have an interest in the field due to the large volume of documentary evidence and documents the state police and forensic science experts process on a yearly basis. Forensic experts are asked to give an opinion whether a suicide note or a will or a personal diary found from the crime spot can be connected to the victim.
 
 The study consisted of 11 districts in different regions from where 10 persons each were selected. They were asked to write an essay on a subject of their choice, having an average length of about three pages. Dialectical features of Ahmedabad city were chosen as the standard for comparison. “It was found that the spoken dialect surely affects the way a person writes. For example, we found that a person from Bhavnagar writes ‘kadi’ for standard ‘kyarey’ (ever) and a person from Bhuj writes ‘halyo’ for the standard ‘chalyo’ (walked),” Dave said. “The standard ‘tyare’ (then) becomes ‘tar’ in Porbandar and ‘divas’ (day) becomes ‘di’ in Rajkot.” She said that the regions on border of districts have an amalgamation of the characteristics from multiple dialects.
 
 
 
