LUDHIANA: To discuss the prevailing situation in  , party leaders from Ludhiana, urban and rural units, on Saturday held a meeting and expressed support and solidarity with national convener  . 

 The meeting was addressed by around 36 leaders, including state general secretary Ahbaab Grewal, state spokesperson Darshan Singh Shankar, Ludhiana urban president Daljit Singh Grewal, Ludhiana rural president Ranjit Singh Dhamot, Suresh Goyal, zone organisation building incharge Mohan Virk, Rajinderpal Kaur, former coordinator, Suresh Goyal and Gurjit Singh Gill.
 
 The party leaders said that they were hurt by the apology, but also felt that Kejriwal had been under tremendous pressure because of various cases filed against him in various parts of the country, affecting his ability to perform his duties as chief minister and party convener. The leaders claimed that the people of Punjab had supported AAP and Kejriwal by making it the largest Opposition with 20 MLAs, which should never be forgotten. They added that some leaders enjoying high posts are instigating the cadres against the party and its leadership and advised them to stop criticising the party or its leadership as they were enjoying positions because of the party. 
 
 “All party leaders and members present here resolve to unite and stand by our leader,” said the leaders. The party members while taking a “serious note” of the comments made by   brothers said that they had displayed a perfect example of opportunistic politics and showed their true colours. The Bains Brothers had taken full advantage of AAP and the terminology used by them and their actions has exposed them as the real traitors. 
 
 “Participants were jubilant over breaking of the alliance with the   (LIP) on its own as the party had been suffering due to the alliance. All party volunteers unanimously decided and reposed full faith in the leadership of Arvind Kejriwal and resolved to continue the struggle to strengthen the party till victory,” said a statement issued by AAP’s Ludhiana unit. 
 
 
