HYDERABAD: For the second day in a row, hailstorm, along with heavy rain in several parts of the city on Sunday, provided a much-needed relief to residents from the heatwave conditions.

 The rain was accompanied by strong, gusty winds that reached a speed of 17 knots. The incessant winds uprooted trees and poles, bringing traffic to ahalt at many places.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Hailstorm was reported from Secunderabad, Begumpet, Mettuguda and Musheerabad. Officials of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) reported that two electric poles fell due to the impact of heavy winds at Ambedkar Nagar in   division. A tree was also uprooted near   in Uppal.
 
 The rain controlled the upward surge of the mercury to a certain extent. From a maximum recorded temperature of 38.7°C during the day, the mercury dipped by over 8°C after the rain. By evening, the temperature in various parts of the city fell to less than 30°C.
 
 “Moderate to severe thunderstorm will be recorded in isolated places all over Hyderabad and   on Monday as well. The thunderstorms will develop between 11am and 6pm, during which fluctuations in temperature will be recorded,” said YK Reddy, director of India Meteorological Department (IMD), Hyderabad.
 
 IMD, Hyderabad officials, on Sunday reported that moderate to severe thunderstorms with or without hail struck several parts of Rangareddy, Yadadri-Bhongir and Hyderabad districts. IMD officials have also warned that thunderstorms accompanied by gusty winds are likely to be recorded at isolated places in all districts of Telangana between April 1and April 5. Private weather forecaster,  , also reported that due to the “prevailing weather systems”, rainfall activity is expected to occur across Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Kolkata and Chennai on Monday.
 
 Several residents took to social media on Sunday to report the unseasonal hail and thunderstorm in their localities while several others posted pictures of waterlogged roads in the city, urging civic authorities to carry out repairs immediately. A few road mishaps, such as skidding of bikes, due to the rain were also reported.
 
