BHOPAL: Two days after reaching India on tourist visa, two Thai women were arrested by   police on charges of flesh trade in   locality on Sunday night. The Gandhi Nagar police busted a sex racket being operated in garb of spa and massage parlour from a rented house located in posh Queens Villa locality in Gondarmou. 

 Eight women, including the two Thai women, a woman from Nagaland and five local women along with five men were arrested during the raid. Thai women were called to Bhopal on a monthly salary of Rs 20,000 by a property dealer who started the spa and massage parlour in partnership with a local woman. The accused used to charge Rs 2,000-5,000 per hour depending on the service provided to the client.
 
 The recent arrests by police suggests that Bhopal is becoming a hub of sex trade in which the involvement of foreign nationals has become common. On May 11, an alleged high profile sex racket involving women of foreign origin was busted by police at  . At least 11 people, including two Ugandan women, were arrested by the Nishatpura police. Police said that the Ugandan women had come to India on medical visa.
 
 CSP (Nishatpura) Lokesh Sinha said that after conducting raid in Vishwakarma Nagar police had activated its network to keep an eye on such rackets. A police informer tipped off about suspicious activities at Soundarya Spa Centre. The accused were using code words like open body massage, half open body massage, body-to-body massage and full body massage. Based on the tip-off, a policeman was sent to the spot in garb of a customer. On receiving confirmation about flesh trade, the raid was conducted. Police nabbed 8 women and five men from different rooms in compromising position. Police recovered 18 packs of condoms, 15 mobile phones and Rs 70,000 cash from the spa centre. A Hyundai Creta SUV and a Scorpio SUV were also seized. Police also recovered the passports of two Thai women.
 
  said that property dealer Raj Patidar, a resident of   in Sehore, started the spa in March. He lives in Kolar and is yet to be arrested. He said that the mastermind is his partner 40-year-old woman, a resident of Lake Pearl Colony, who is said to be the daughter of a history-sheeter involved in gambling. She was earlier arrested by Kotwali police on charges of attempting to murder her husband.
 
 CSP Sinha said that both the Thai women are aged around 40 years. They told police that they came to India on tourist visa for the first time on May 18 and landed at Mumbai. They were contacted by Patidar, who offered them job at Rs 20,000 per month.
 
 The woman from Nagaland has been in MP for six months and came to Bhopal two months back. She resided with her elder sister who works at a spa in Indore. The nabbed men include Rohit Singh, 28,   Sharma, 29, Bhanu Pratap Kushwah, 26, all residents of Doraha, along with Sunil Mewada, 30, a resident of Gandhi Nagar and Shubham Mehra, 20, a resident of Nariyalkhera. Bhanu Pratap on invitation of Patidar brought Rohit and Sunil to the spa. While Harish and Shubham work at the spa. Sinha said that police have received more leads and more rackets may be busted in the city.
 
 
