Trichy: For a long time now residents of Williams Road and Warners Road have been heading out to Cantonment and other neighbourhoods in search of parks. They are unaware of the huge open space available right outside their doorstep. In fact, even the Trichy Corporation officials seem to be oblivious of this fact. With the city folk seeking more recreational spots to hang out during weekends, close to 26,000 square feet of open space outside the Income Tax Quarters remains unutilised. 

 Corporation sources said that the road side park in ward number 44 falling under Ponmalai zone that branches off from Williams Road near Muneeswarar temple and stretches till Warners Road dotting the officers’ quarters belonging to Income Tax department. 
 
 Measuring at least 300 metres in length and 10 metres in width which varies throughout the stretch, the roadside park belonging to Trichy Corporation remains out of use despite the campus having a dozen well-grown native tree species.
 
 “The park has been remaining unutilised for over three years now. People frequently urinate along the fences and even omni drivers make use of the dormant space to park vehicles close to the fences,” D Kalaiselvan, a resident of Williams Road, told TOI. 
 
 Without proper maintenance, the park serves no purpose as the spacious facility which should have given shelter from the sultry weather during day time is not utilised. Neither is it tapped for constructing a commercial complex nor is it used for being developed into a roadside leisure spot to attract residents in the evening.
 
 With the civic body’s open air gymnasium receiving good feedback and patronage among locals, when queried whether the available park space in Williams Road would be utilised for open air gymnasium, corporation sources with Ponmalai zone admitted that there were no immediate plans. 
 
 On the other hand, senior officials with the civic body said that the Urban Local Body (ULB) was keen to convert the existing infrastructure in the city for recreational activities.
 
 
