Krishnagiri/Dharmapuri: It took more than eight hours for around 150 forest officials to capture a tusker, which killed three people and damaged standing crops at Oddayanur village in Krishnagiri district.

 The officials tranquillized the jumbo using a fire gun and later relocated it to Biligundulu reserve forest near Hogenakkal in Dharmapuri district.
 
 After killing Rajappa and Muniraj on Saturday and Sunday respectively, the tusker which has been wandering near Shoolagiri in Krishnagiri district for the last few days, killed one more man on Monday morning. The dead person was identified as K Devanna, 50, of Oddayanur village. Further the elephant damaged the standing crops near Oddayanur village.
 
 The decision to tranquillize and relocate the tusker to the deep forest came after the Krishnagiri district collector C Kathiravan, SP Mahesh Kumar, Salem zonal conservator of Forest A K Ulaganathan, Krishnagiri DFO Deepak S Bilgi and other officials visited the village to see the damage the animal had caused.
 
 Based on their order, the forest officials went to Oddayanur on Monday morning. While they were trying to capture the tusker, it trampled Devanna to death. Shocked over this, the forest and police officials immediately warned the villagers to move away from the elephant. After more than eight hours of struggle, veterinary doctor Arun Sha, from Bannerghatta forest division successfully tranquillized the tusker using a fire gun. “I fired tranquillizer four times on the elephant,” he said.
 
 Krishnagiri district forest officer Deepak S Bilgi said, more than 150 forest officials were deployed for the operation and after several attempts, they finally succeeded. He further said the forest officials have taken ‘war-like’ efforts to shift the jumbo from the human habitations to the reserve forest. 
 
 Another senior forest official, who was part of the operation team, said the forest officials didn’t have enough sleep and food in the last three days. “We have struggled immensely to capture the tusker safely,” he said.
 
 After tranquillizing the elephant, the forest officials loaded it into the truck using a crane.
 
 “The condition of the tusker is fine and we are monitoring its movement,” said forest officials, who were camping at Bililgundulu reserve forest.
 
 
