NEW DELHI: Declaring that his government has given a new model for education,   Arvind Kejriwal has asked other states to emulate it. Inaugurating two swimming pools at two government schools in   and  , Kejriwal said that no one had ever thought that government schools could have swimming pools. Claiming that it was made possible due to the honesty of the government, deputy chief minister   asked the students to thank their parents for voting AAP into power. 

 Sisodia explained to the students and parents assembled there that the very idea of a swimming pool at a government school was tough to imagine. So, when they had laid the foundation last year, Sisodia said, photograph of another pool was shown. “Many hadn’t believed that a government school would have a swimming pool like tat,” the deputy CM said. 
 
 Both swimming pools built at Annie Besant Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya, Pocket B, Mayur Vihar Phase II and Rajkiya Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya, West Vinod Nagar, were constructed by PWD at a cost of Rs 2.28 crore each. Both schools have 5,000 students. 
 
 Sisodia also said that the pools could be used by students of other private and government schools from nearby areas. Praising engineers and other staff for building the pools, Sisodia said they have done a pious act. 
 
 Kejriwal also told the students that there is no such government school anywhere else in the country. He said when he ran an NGO, he would visit government schools that were in bad shape. “But now I can see change. Many in the past would dream of studying in private schools. But now many are studying in a government schools with pride,” Kejriwal said. 
 
 Kejriwal further said, “In the past three years, the government has proved that it can change the education system of the past 70 years. They told us that government schools can never change. But we have shown that change can happen. Today, the Delhi government is spending Rs 12,000 crore on education. We are spending on nation building.” 
 
 
