Nagpur: Nagpur University (NU) would be starting its first-ever online centralized admission process (CAP) for non-professional postgraduate course on pilot basis with MCom from the first week of June or next day of BCom final results.

 Around 2,950 seats would be made available on the special CAP portal started by the university. Based on its success, the model will be implemented for rest of the courses after a week.
 
 However, vice-chancellor SP Kane preferred to call it “on a rolling basis” rather than pilot. “We can’t wait for all the results to be declared for starting the online centralized admission process. Since BCom final results are lined up, MCom admissions will start. In this way, if any problem crops up, it can be addressed,” Kane said.
 
 Earlier, NU had planned to go online for PG courses at all of its 38 departments, conducted colleges and 117 affiliated colleges. But following concerns raised by colleges, the decision to put one course on trial was taken. NU has roped in its private agency Promarc, which is handling exam work, for online admissions too.
 
 Soon after the BCom final results, the university would open its new portal for students to apply for MCom first year. The admission would be done as per merit order only. Later, the links for admissions to MA, MSc, MSW, MCM and other non-professional courses would be started.
 
 Around 25,000 seats in 13 postgraduate courses would be available for students. The highest seats of 15,575 are under MA course having 28 specializations. Twenty-one specialization are available in MSc.
 
 Last year, a three-member committee led by mathematics department’s GS Khadekar had designed the offline CAP model, that saw a turnaround for all the science faculty courses where seats used to remain vacant over the years despite having low fee.
 
 The students will have to create a login ID and password, which can be done at students’ facilitation centres at colleges. NU will also soon be issuing a brochure carrying all the details of CAP process, intake capacity and course fee.
 
 There would be two CAP rounds on merit basis followed by third, if needed, for management seats. But only students who registered for the first two rounds will be allowed to participate in CAP-III. Besides taking complete control of PG admissions, NU is set to regulate fee charged by affiliated colleges. Right from form filling to taking admissions, managements/trust won’t have much say from this academic year.
 
 However, colleges have expressed concerns over transparency in CAP. They feel NU may keep bright students and leave those with poor scores for colleges.
 
 NU officials said minority institutions need not worry as zero round would be allotted to fill up quota seats.
 
 
