
The rape of an eight-month-old baby last Sunday, allegedly by her cousin, shocked a city which is pretty inured to sexual violence. But this brutal assault on an infant isn’t an exception. Earlier this month, a three-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a 15-year-old boy in Haryana’s   district. The perpetrator was a neighbour who took advantage of the fact that the victim’s labourer parents were not at home. Last December, a six-year-old was raped by a 55-year-old family friend in Assam’s Jorhat district. The parents of the girl had left her with the accused to go buy some medicines.
 
 So, what makes an offender target an infant who hasn’t even learned to walk or talk? In fact, even the thought would make anyone cringe. Experts say pedophilia is complicated, with some even arguing for a separate category called infantophilia for those attracted to children below six years. Criminal psychologist   says some men have difficulty forming relationships with women and want complete submission. “They feel a deep sense of inadequacy in their relationships with women. They feel less threatened by children,’’ he says. 
 
 Xanthe  , senior lecturer in forensic criminology at the University of New England, recently wrote a piece in The Conversation exploring the psychology of a pedophile. According to her, there are some offenders — between 33% and 75% — who have been sexually abused as children themselves. She suggests curbing child sexual abuse will result in a drop in such crimes. And then there are others who haven’t been abused but find children sexually attractive. “Research suggests there may be a biological reason for this. Data published in Biology Letters found pedophiles’ brains are, in essence, wired to find immature faces attractive,’’ she writes.
 
 Studies say there are distinct classifications of adults, depending on the developmental stage of the child that they are sexually attracted to. Those who find children on the cusp of puberty sexually attractive are known as “hebephiles” (Remember Humbert from Nabokov’s classic novel Lolita), while “ephebophiles” are sexually attracted to children who have reached puberty.
 
 Vidya Reddy from the NGO Tulir — Centre for Prevention and Healing of Child Sexual Abuse says that of the many cases she has handled, nearly all the abusers were people who were known to the victim. “In most cases, abusers were attracted to the child and found an opportunity to take advantage of the situation,’’ she says. In the Delhi case too, the accused is a 28-year-old cousin who targeted the baby his mother was babysitting. Reddy advocates safeguards to prevent such situations in schools and institutions, including training of adults to watch out for warning signs from other adults and background checks. 
 
 
