GURUGRAM: The district health department has suspended the licence of a Sector 40 based   after it was found that ultrasounds were conducted at the clinic by a doctor who did not have a licence for it. Officials also sealed two ultrasound machines at the clinic. The district appropriate authority will now file a case against the clinic for misappropriation.

 Acting on the complaint filed by Bijendra Singh alias Kala Dahiya, the district appropriate authority sealed both ultrasound machines at the Bourn Hall Fertility Centre in sector 40 on Monday. Dahiya said that he brought a pregnant relative to the clinic for an ultrasound on January 6. Dahiya alleged that during the test, Dr Punit Rana Arora asked the woman whether she desired a boy or a girl child. She then allegedly told the patient that her clinic in Dubai would help the woman get a sex determination is she wanted. Shocked at this proposal and Dahiya filed a complaint with Gurugram health department.
 
 The inquiry into the matter revealed that Dr Rana Arora does not have a PNDT registration. Only those with the registration can conduct an ultrasound. The documents showed that the Dr Rana Arora had signed the ultrasound report too which stated that the patient had a Copper-T inserted. The district appropriate authority will now pursue a legal case against the centre.
 
 “Bourn Hall International India (BHI)….has been fully co-operating with authorities in the ongoing matter and is committed to expeditiously resolving the issues, if any under their advisement……..BHI has filed a WRIT Petition No. 7647 of 2018, before the Hon’ble High Court of Punjab and Haryana. The Hon’ble Court has directed the state appellate authority to decide the appeal of BHI within seven days of the filing of the appeal. We would like to re-affirm our commitment to India and reiterate that as a law abiding organisation we always adhere to the laws of the countries in which we operate,” said Bourn Hall International India spokesperson. 
 
 
