GHAZIABAD: UP Congress chief   was detained by   police along with his supporters on Wednesday while trying to enter the district in an attempt to meet farmers agitating for higher compensation in Mandola against the land acquired by the state government. Babbar’s cavalcade was stopped at the   on Delhi-Ghaziabad border from where he was taken to a government guest house in   with his supporters.

 Ghaziabad SSP Hari   told TOI, “Raj Babbar and his supporters were released from detention on Wednesday evening. We didn’t allow him to go to Mandola in view of the fragile law and order situation owing to the ongoing farmers’ agitation. As of now the situation is under control in Mandola. Cops from several police stations have been assigned to maintain strict vigil in the area.” 
 
 A section of farmers have been on continuous agitation since December 2016 demanding higher compensation in accordance with new Land Acquisition Act of 2013. Their land had been notified for acquisition in the year 1998 under the UP Housing & Development Board Act, 1965.
 
 Around 94% of farmers have already taken compensation for land acquired by the UP Housing & Development Board for developing the Mandola scheme. Talking to media persons at the guest house, Babbar alleged that a committee, set up by the UP state government in May 2017 for talks with remaining farmers, is putting undue pressure to hand over the land.
 
 “Farmers are in no mood to talk to this committee because of the pressure mounted upon them to hand over their land. The scheme had been rejected by the state government but was revived again inexplicably a year later. However, legal procedures to acquire land were not begun afresh following the revival. The housing board is trying to take over the land forcefully by using the emergency clause,” said Babbar.
 
 “Farmers have been adamant that they be represented in the talks only by their leader Manveer Teotia. However, he is in jail right now and the aggrieved farmers should themselves come forward for talks with the state. We are ready to hear their grievances and resolve the issue,” Ghaziabad DM   told TOI.
 
 
