Satyajit Ray, unarguably one of India’s finest film makers has left behind some great work and inspiration for the future generations of movie makers, his films, books and a bunch of relatively unknown short stories. Today, the world celebrates his 97th birth anniversary and to commemorate this day, Viacom18   is proud to announce ‘X Ray – Selected Satyajit Shorts’.
 
  This presentation will be a 12-part web series in collaboration with celebrated national award-winning director,   and produced by ‘Tipping Point’, the digital content brand of Viacom18 Motion Pictures.
  
  Breaking away from the image of a traditional film studio, Viacom18 Motion Pictures has now ventured into digital space with its digital content brand, Tipping Point. Viacom18 Motion Pictures has always been known from bringing cutting edge content which beats the formulas and clichés to the big screen. With a growing set of young audiences wanting to consume content on the go, on digital platforms. Tipping Point will extend the Viacom18 Motion Pictures ethos to creating content focused on engagement and entertainment while pushing the creative envelope with a host of web series and short films for online consumption.
  
  Commenting on the development, Ajit Andhare, COO, Viacom18 Motion Pictures said, “Having conquered the big screen through unconventional narratives, it is time for Viacom18 Motion Pictures to make its mark in the rapidly emerging digital content space. Tipping Point - our digital content brand will appeal to consumers looking for edgy, contemporary, provocative yet relatable content typically missing in the traditional or mainstream media. Through Tipping Point, Viacom18 Motion Pictures will evolve from being a film studio into a holistic content studio, reaching beyond theatrical offerings into millions of screens on mobile & personal devices with its unique storytelling.”
  
  Srijit Mukherjee added, “One aspect of   which probably gets overshadowed by his cinematic genius is his remarkable treasure trove of short stories which an entire generation grew up on. These stories appeared in groups of 12 across years and covered diverse genres like horror, drama, satire etc. It is an honour to get an opportunity to adapt 12 such stories for this web series. We will also relocate the setting of these stories across 12 cities/towns across the country to give them a pan Indian feel.”
  
  That’s not all! The brand’s offering also sees a host of other web series’ – an untitled crime thriller created by  , ‘Jamtara’ a story about a small district in  , known to be India’s phishing capital, directed by   and ‘Best Days’, a psychological thriller by Abhishek Sengupta.
