   handling the   and   flights that came dangerously close in Mumbai airspace last Wednesday have been grounded. Investigators are probing if in those few seconds-when the two planes with 261 passengers on them-had to be pulled apart, there was some confusion in the controller's coordination with the two cockpits. AI's Airbus A-319 (AI 631) was enroute from Mumbai to Bhopal and Vistara's A-320 Neo (UK 997) was flying from Delhi to Pune. 

 "Vistara descended from its assigned level of 29,000 feet to 27,100 feet where the AI flight was coming in its direction. There may have been confusion between the   and Vistara cockpit, which at that time had a woman co-pilot at the controls as the captain had taken a toilet break. The AI flight had a woman commander, Captain Anupama Kohli," said a source.
 
 AI's Captain Anupama Kohli-a senior commander of A-320 family with over 20 years' experience- saved the day. "She saw the Vistara aircraft approaching in her direction and could hear the ATC asking UK 997 'why are you on this level?' The Vistara lady pilot told ATC that 'no, you told me to come to this level'. Then she saw the Vistara plane closing in from her left side towards her. Soon, the red sign went up in her cockpit and she got to know the Vistara plane was crossing her level. Instantly, a resolution advisory (RA) came-'climb, climb, climb." Captain Kohli immediately climbed and turned right to steer clear of the Vistara plane," said sources.
 
 The Vistara plane at that time was being flown by the lady co-pilot. The male commander had taken a toilet break and as per rules, the co-pilot was accompanied by an airhostess as two crew members have to be always present in a cockpit. AI then went up and Vistara came down, to be 600 feet away from each other and then flew away safely "clear of conflict". 
 
 AI applauded the presence of mind shown by Kohli. Vistara did not comment as the matter is being probed by aviation authorities, while maintaining its crew crew operated exactly as per rules without any violation. A Vistara source said its crew was asked to be at 27,000 feet and that is why they were there. The investigators will go through the ATC transcripts. 
 
 
