Nagpur:   can settle disputes, not quarrels, said panellists during the National Lok Adalat organized by the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) under the aegis of National Authority and Maharashtra State Legal Services Authority at District court on Sunday. 

 The panel members felt that all litigants should come with a mindset of negotiation and will to cooperate. Even if one party is adamant then there is no scope of compromise and they need to take up the long route of court proceedings, they said. 
 
 Bunty Sahani and Sanjay Sukhani (name changed), both middle-aged, were accused of defaulting on loans by the same finance company and were asked to appear before the court. Though they both appeared for settlement, the complainant did not want to negotiate, so the matter remained pending. 
 
 As many as 9,963 cases were disposed of during the session with 55% success ratio and many senior citizens got benefited. Matters pertaining to crime, motor accident claims, traffic offences, matrimony, bank recoveries etc which were compoundable in nature were taken up. 
 
 Cases pending for more than three decades were also disposed of with principles of mediation and alternate dispute resolution (ADR). 
 
 “We came across criminal cases dating back to 1982 and our experienced lot of panellists was successful in amicably setting the matter. We also cleared a huge chunk of traffic challan cases this time,” said DLSA chairman VD Dongre. 
 
 “Lok Adalat is a fast and hassle-free form of dispute resolution. It not only saves time and money of the litigants but helps in reducing the pendency in courts. This way, judicial officers and advocates would get a chance to concentrate on fresh and grave cases to deliver justice speedily,” said Dongre.
 
 Court manager Sanjay Singh said that some people fear the court procedures. “Such people should approach Lok Adalat as it is an informal system of handling matters and the final judgement is made only if both parties are convinced,” he said. 
 
 
