RAJKOT: Widespread violence erupted across   on Monday as Dalit community members came out on the roads in huge numbers to enforce the nationwide bandh call to protest the “dilutions” in the Prevention of Atrocities Against SC/ST Act by the Supreme Court.

 Saurashtra’s commercial capital — Rajkot — was among the worst-hit urban centre as all the main markets like Para Bazaar, Sadar Bazaar and those on Kalawad Road were forcefully shut down by rampaging mobs since the morning. 
 
 Three city buses were vandalized in Rajkot — one near Ambedkar Bhavan on Kotharia Road and two near PD Malaviya College. The mob also targeted a police van near Hospital Chowk when cops detained leader of opposition in Rajkot Municipal Corporation Vashram Sagathia. A big group of people barged into the Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) office asking the officials to shut down and it was only after much coaxing that they relented. 
 
 Common people were put in severe trouble as they were not allowed to enter the RMC or collector’s office. Chaos ruled the city for the entire day as road blockades caused traffic jams at various places
 
 Nearly seven state transport buses were vandalized in Limbdi, Surendranagar and Vanthali in Junagadh district as well as on Dhebar road while one was set ablaze in Dhrangadhra town. GSRTC Rajkot division has suspended some bus services, especially those where night halt is required. 
 
 Jamnagar too remained on the tenterhooks throughout the day and all major roads like Khambaliya Gate Road, Havai Chowk area, Ranjitsagar road, Khodiyar Colony Road, GG hospital Road, Samarpan Circle, Lal Bungalow and Bedi Gate were blocked. Three Congress MLAs even had an altercation with the Jamnagar collector Ravi Shanker after he refused to accept their memorandum and asked them to leave his office. The collector asked them to hand over the memorandum to the sub-divisional magistrate.
 
 In Bhavnagar, a mob went to the district panchayat office and forced all employees to stop work. Most petrol pumps were also forced to shut down and all major markets remained closed. 
 
 Newly-appointed state Congress president Amit Chavda along with leader of opposition in the state assembly Paresh Dhanani and senior leader Shaktisinh Gohil garlanded Dr Ambedkar’s statute in Jasonath Chowk. Few private buses were vandalized and police had to resort to lathicharge in Selarka Chowk area to disperse the mob.
 
 Violence also erupted in Kutch where a mob attacked the car of mamlatdar in Bhuj. The officer escaped unhurt but friction was reported between the mob and police in the town after they forced closure of shops in Sharaf Bazar, Vaniya Road, ST bus stand road and Hospital road. Traders and Dalit groups also clashed in Sharaf Bazaar in Bhuj and both groups even went to the A-Division police station where they reached a settlement.
 
 Port town Gandhidham witnessed frustrating road blockage on the road connecting the town with Adipur. The road was blocked since 9am and traffic was not cleared till late evening. The mob also resorted to stone pelting on closed shops in Lilashahnagar, Mochi Bazar and some commercial complexes in Gandhidham.
 
 
