KOCHI: The preliminary report by the   government hospital superintendent suggests that the death of 18-year-old Aishwarya  , who was admitted to the hospital, was due to a reaction from a drug administered at the hospital, said district medical officer Dr N K  .

 Aishwarya was taken to the hospital on Tuesday at around 1am, following an asthma attack. The hospital had administered medication and antibiotics to stabilize her condition.
 
 Later, the family was asked to admit her to the hospital. On Tuesday evening she suddenly collapsed and had to be rushed to the Medical Trust Hospital. She passed away on Wednesday.
 
 On Thursday, Aishwarya’s father, Sudheer along with relatives and protested outside the hospital with his daughter’s body in ambulance alleging medical negligence on part of the government hospital.
 
 “She had walked into the hospital but she did not leave that way. The cause of my daughter’s death appears to be due to the fault of the hospital. Strong action must be taken against the hospital. What happened to me should not happen to others,” said Sudheer.
 
 After he left the premises of the hospital with his daughter’s body, some of the protesters blocked the road in front of the hospital. The police had to intervene to remove the blockade.
 
 Dr Kuttappan said that he has seen the preliminary report submitted by the medical superintendent of the government hospital. “From the report, the cause of death appears to be a reaction caused by the antibiotics administered to the patient. The hospital has initially conducted the allergic test but there was no reaction to the test and hence they proceeded with the antibiotics. This reaction is only seen in a few cases,” said Kuttappan.
 
 He said that he is yet to evaluate the postmortem report. The DMO’s office will be setting up a preliminary investigation team and if further probe is warranted a higher level of investigation would be recommended.
 
 “At the moment it does not appear to be a case of medical negligence because doctor seems to have followed necessary procedures. But we can only be certain once the investigation is complete. The duty doctor who was in charge at the time has been sent on mandatory leave,” he added.
 
