Kolkata: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has hinted at a drop in Bengal’s revenues under the GST regime a week before the state Budget on February 1.

 “The state economy has been hit by notebandi (demonetisation) and the changeover to the GST regime. Small businessmen have been elbowed out in the new tax regime, thus having an adverse impact on the state’s economy,” the CM said at a Netaji Indoor Stadium programme on Wednesday, thus taking the budget craft to a political plane. 
 
 Banerjee also announced that the state couldn’t even meet the annual debt repayment requirement through its own tax generation. “The state’s own income is Rs 42,000 crore when the debt repayment requirement has gone up to Rs 48,000 crore. This is a burden we have inherited from the preceding Left Front government that went for the highest borrowings in 2006-07,” the CM said, taking a dig at Left parties that had been accusing the ruling Trinamool of adding to the state debt. 
 
 The Rs 6,000 crore deficit, however, won’t come in the way of several welfare schemes on whose account the state subsidy has gone up to Rs 6,700 crore. Banerjee announced that her government had spent Rs 600 crore as cash support to 15,000 clubs in the state for beefing up infrastructure. 
 
 “No one had thought of upgrading sports infrastructure before. The budgetary allocation for sports was a meagre Rs 74 crore in 2011. We have increased the allocation more than four-fold to Rs 477 crore in 2017. We have also introduced Jangalmahal Cup for youths in Jhargram, Bankura, Purulia and Birbhum in which winners have been given cash prizes and motorbikes,” the CM said. She urged the sports secretary to include retired players under Swastha Sathi scheme so that they could avail free treatment of up to Rs 5 lakh in private hospitals. 
 
 Sports and youth welfare weren’t a one-off case. The CM iterated state support to several schemes, namely Kanyashree, Sikshashree, Yuvashree, Sabuj Sathi, Swastha Sathi, Baitarani along with rice and wheat at Rs 2 a kg for 8.5 crore people in Bengal. 
 
 “Check the market price for rice. It is Rs 23 a kilo. We are giving it at Rs 2 a kilo. The rest is subsidy. Now you can calculate the amount of subsidy the state gives for this scheme. It adds up to thousands of crores,” the CM said. Add to these, the various social and cultural fairs and utsavs — Lok Sanskriti Utsav, Mati Utsav, Vivek Mela (in memory of Swami Vivekananda), Subhas Mela (after Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose), Rakhibandhan Utsav — the government has been funding round the year. 
 
 The CM also stressed that the spending despite funds crunch had not come in the way of salary payment to government employees or schoolteachers. “Yet, the government has never failed in disbursing salaries of government employees and schoolteachers,” Banerjee said, leaving a section of government employees fuming over their long-pending dearness allowance and pay revision.
 
 
