We’re halfway through May, and   in Bengaluru will reopen soon. One would think that this inevitably means that it’s time for the light and breezy summer clothes to go back inside the cupboard, and for the drab attires dictated by college dress codes to pop back out. But that needn’t be the case at all! If you’re looking for a way to express your inner fashionista while still sticking to the rules prescribed by colleges, here are a few   shortcuts you could try out…

 Lay on the layers
  It’s nearly monsoon, and temperatures are gradually dipping, so layering your outfits is an excellent idea to draw eyeballs. A simple black jacket can instantly make any boring top look tasteful, while chunky or embroidered dupattas can not only add colour to your clothes, but can also be used to hide sleeveless attires that most colleges so strictly frown upon. What’s more, guys can lay on a sweater over a collared tee, and look effortlessly dressed for any occasion.
 
 Play with pants
 The biggest complaint by guys in colleges across the city is the ban on denim. Considering that jeans are the staple elements of every Indian wardrobe, constraints on them might seem like a huge hurdle — but the solutions here are aplenty. There’s a whole range of pants that remain largely unexplored by youngsters: chinos, corduroys and khakis are fantastic substitutes for the commonplace jeans, and the bright colours put on sale during the summer months make this a perfect time to grab a few pairs from the stores.
 
 Cheat your way to  
  as it may seem, a little bit of jugaad is essential in the Indian way of life! For colleges that forbid leggings and tight lowers on their campus, full-length kurtis are the best bet — slip them on with tights, and no one would be the wiser. And if crop tops are restricted in your institution, high-lows are an excellent alternate. Sufficiently short in the front and flowy at the back, these blouses play by the book completely, but also look extremely cute.
 
 (In)formal wear 
 One of the most annoying decrees of dress codes is the requirement to turn up in formal wear. They can be a challenge to pull off, but there are a few tricks to ease that. Guys can lay off heavy blazers and tuxedos and pick sherwanis or kurtas instead. Pairing these with a pair of jeans can further make this a very easy garb to carry off. Girls can swap their stiff and sturdy formal pants with a pair of comfortable jeggings, and nobody would even notice the difference. Pulling on some stylish suits can also notch up your formal fashion by several degrees.
 
 Bling your outfits 
 Accessories are often the most important part of any ensemble. While garishly flashy or clunky adornments might seem over-the-top, a couple of carefully chosen embellishments can look perfectly chic. Some of the best bets would be sunglasses that suit one’s facial structure and simple watches. Girls can also play around with some tiny but stylish rings and ear studs to amp their getup.
 
 Happy Feet 
 Several colleges have stringent rules about footwear, forbidding ‘inappropriate’ and ‘casual’ sandals. A clever workaround would be to favour a pair of sneakers or high-tops in place of formal shoes, particularly in dark colours or monochrome shades. The unassuming dark colours will definitely lead people into overlooking your footwear. On occasions where casual slippers are permitted, opting for tasteful sandals will also win you several brownie points.
 
 - Sanjana Sindhe
 
 
