NEW DELHI: The   is planning to provide   to vendors in its jurisdiction and create vending zones to decongest the markets. 

 Standing committee chairman Tilak Raj Kataria said that they have taken their cue from Gurgaon and Faridabad, where vendors are selling their products from smart shops, which have charging point, refrigerator and solar panel. “The idea is to decongest the markets by creating vending zones in all the 104 municipal wards. Every ward has at least two weekly markets and vendors have encroached upon the footpaths and roads. It is important to create a zone where vendors can be accommodated,” said Kataria.
 
 “In Gurgaon and Faridabad, they have given such smart shops to the vendors. We have tied up with the same private agency and soon we will launch the project,” added Kataria.
 
 The cost of each shop comes to around Rs 30,000-50,000 and Kataria said that they will tie up with banks to provide easy loan to the vendors. “Due to our financial condition we cannot afford to buy smart shops for all the vendors. We will tie up with banks to provide easy loans to the vendors and they can pay back with the minimal installment of Rs 100 per month,” added Kataria.
 
 He said that the north civic body will conduct a survey to register the vendors and smart cards will be issued to them, through which the corporation will track the vendors to ensure rules were not violated and they remained in their vending zones. “Presently, we do not have any data on the number of vendors across our jurisdiction. We have directed the department to conduct a survey through which vendors will be registered and a smart card will be given to them. The smart card will have a chip to track them. The smart card will be linked with aadhaar card,” said Kataria. The Delhi government has notified the rules for formation of vending committee and Kataria said that the civic body will speed up the process. “We will speed up the process to identify the total number of vendors and accordingly the sites will be decided,” he said. 
 
 
