GURUGRAM: A 20-year-old Nathupur resident had a narrow escape when his Royal Enfield   Classic 350   burst into flames as he was riding it towards Ardee City in the evening on Tuesday. The   happened close to the DLF 1 Rapid metro station. 

 
 When the moving bike caught fire, the youth applied brakes, at which the bike overturned, leaving the rider injured. The front part of the bike was gutted in the fire. A report has been lodged at DLF 1 police station.
 
 The incident happened around 6.35pm on Tuesday, when  , resident of Block U, DLF 3, was going towards Ardee City from his home for some work. 
 
 As he reached the DLF 1 Rapid metro station, he noticed smoke flames and flames coming out from under the bike’s fuel tank. 
 
 He quickly applied brakes, at which he lost control and the bike slipped and overturned in the middle of the road. Luckily, traffic was light, and cops in a PCR nearby reached the spot and rushed the injured youth to a nearby hospital. 
 
 The fire brigade was called, though, by the time they reached, a metro station guard had doused the flames using a fire extinguisher. 
 
 A fire brigade team that arrived in a while then took over. Traffic on the road crawled for some minutes after the incident. However, no major snarls were reported as police teams responded quickly and took control of the situation. 
 
 “The fire brigade team reached the spot within 10 minutes after being informed, and doused the fire. Yadav, received minor injuries and was discharged from hospital after first aid. We have lodged a report of the incident,” said inspector Kailash Devi, SHO, DLF 1 police station.
 
 Yadav, who is pursuing a lab technician’s course after graduation, said the incident was sudden and could be the result of a short in the electrical circuitry. 
 
 “When I noticed smoke coming out from under the fuel tank, I panicked and applied brakes, but lost control of the bike and fell. I was injured, but police was at hand to rush me to a hospital. It was god’s grace that I escaped,” Yadav told TOI. 
 
 When asked about possible cause of the sudden fire,  , service head (north zone) at   said, “There could be many causes behind the fire, but in 90% cases, it results from modification carried out by owners after buying bikes. I can’t comment on this issue any further without us getting a report on the incident, and our team examining the unit.”
 
