CHENNAI: At the end of a 24-hour pleasant train journey, as the train chugs into Chennai  , how is one supposed to react when a co-passenger suddenly develops a   condition? Delay in timely medical help, especially during the golden hour, can be the difference between life and death, and in a crowded public space like a terminal railway  , doctors are hard to come by.

 To avoid such exigencies,   started emergency medical care centres at 23 important stations including Central,  , Tambaram, Madurai, Coimbatore, Trichy and Salem.
 
 The concept used was innovative, said railway officials. “We provide the land free of cost to the corporate   which can set up the facilities. In return, primary health care service is provided by them to railway passengers free of cost. It’s a win-win situation for all,” said additional general manager P K Mishra. Corporate hospital giants like Apollo and SRM have been involved with Southern Railway in this programme.
 
 Physicians and nurses are stationed 24x7 at these centres which have equipment to resuscitate like defibrillator, nebuliser, and stretcher. The centres attend to cases of heart attack, breathlessness and injuries while boarding or alighting from trains among others. An ambulance is also stationed inside the station complex in case the patient has to be rushed to a nearby hospital. It is not compulsory that the patient will be taken to a corporate hospital. “The patient or his family can choose to be treated at any hospital of their choice,” Mishra said. A majority of the patients treated at the Apollo emergency medical centre in Chennai Central have been sent to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital across the Poonamalee High Road. 
 
 At Chennai Central, the medical centre attends to around 22 patients per day while at Egmore and Tambaram around 20 and six passengers receive treatment.
 
 The model has been appreciated by all quarters of the Indian Railways, with the chairman of Railway Board Ashwani Lohani discussing it when he visited Chennai recently. A top southern railway official said it was likely to be implemented at all major stations across India after a study by the ‘transformation cell’ which checks unique initiatives implemented in locations across the country.
 
 The centre at Chennai Central was started in November 2015 after a PIL in the Madras high court highlighted the lack of medical services at the station. The high court had given a general direction that the railways should explore possibilities following which railway authorities implemented the programme.
 
 “In railways, every contract entered with a private agency is viewed with suspicion and comes under vigilance scanner, especially when land is given for free. The court’s order gave an opportunity for setting up this unique model,” a top official said.
 
 K Baskar, member of Chennai divisional rail users consultative committee said it should be extended to suburban terminals like Arakkonam and Tiruvallur, which catered to a large number of suburban passengers. “ A and B class stations should also benefit,” he said.
 
 
