HYDERABAD: Giving priority to  , ruling   (TRS) has decided to field two of the three nominees from Backward Castes in   elections. The third seat has been allotted to other castes (OCs). TRS announced party general secretaries KCR's relative Joginapally Santosh Kumar, Badugula Lingaiah Yadav and Banda Prakash Mudiraj as nominees for Rajya Sabha elections. 

 While elections to three seats for Rajya Sabha will be held on March 23, last date for nominations is March 12. All candidates will file nominations on Monday. 
 
 
 
 
 The CM also said he would lead an all-party delegation to hold a demonstration at Jantar Mantar after the budget session of Assembly to exert pressure on the Centre to make appropriate amendments for enhancements of reservations to STs, Muslims and categorisation of Scheduled Castes into A, B, C and D groups.
 
 KCR was speaking to party legislators at the TRS legislature party meeting on Sunday, ahead of Budget session of the Assembly on Monday.
 
 In a much-needed morale booster to legislators, KCR said almost all sitting MLAs would be given party tickets to contest again and he would ensure they will win from respective Assembly constituencies. “Except for four to five MLAs, every sitting legislator would be given a ticket,” he said.
 
 TRS will win 106 seats. All three surveys have given over 100 seats to TRS in elections to be held 2018-19, KCR told MLAs.
 
 Political pundits said announcements by KCR are an indication he may contest from a Lok Sabha seat in Telangana in 2019 and he is preparing the ground for coronation of his son and IT and Municipal Minister KT Rama Rao.
 
 Experts said KCR has given KTR the responsibility of planning and ensuring TRS’ victory in all three Rajya Sabha seats and that KTR along with other ministers should also ensure that TRS legislators and ministers effectively countered Opposition parties in the Assembly. This hints at a strategic elevation of KTR. Usually, it’s irrigation minister T Harish Rao who is known to be more astute in planning political strategies.
 
 
