NOIDA: Driving on the wrong side without caring about one’s safety or of others is a regular phenomenon in Noida. However, at some places, it is a way of commuting that goes unnoticed even by the traffic police who seem to have accepted the menace as a problem that cannot be solved.

 Fortis T-point
 
 At the Fortis T-point under the foot-over-bridge (FOB), commuters can be seen driving on the wrong side recklessly.
 
 On weekdays during rush hour, office-goers can be seen driving recklessly and overtaking each other as they enter the road near the hospital.
 
 Commuters driving towards the numerous companies in Sector 64, 63 and towards Mamura, can be seen rushing to work and merging with the incoming traffic from Mamura.
 
 Trolleys, tractors, two-wheelers and even ambulances can be spotted driving dangerously on the wrong side here.
 
 Sudesh, a magazine distributor who was caught driving on the wrong side, told TOI that he was on his way to an apartment in Sector 62 and did not want to drive another 500 metres to the U-turn on the main road towards Ghaziabad. An ambulance was also seen driving on the wrong side.
 
 Rajesh Yadav, an employee with a private company in Sector 64, said he wanted to reach his office quickly and wanted to avoid the correct route, which would account for another 1km.
 
 Commuters manage to do this, even though an advertisement board on one of the poles at the T-point displays a message about short-cuts. “Short-cuts cut life short,” it reads.
 
 Hoshiarpur, Sector 51 to Sector 34, Gijhore
 
 On Captain  , commuters can be seen emerging from Sector 51 market, apartments in Sectors 51/50, and other places in that area and drive on the wrong side to reach Sector 34 or hospitals and market near Gijhore chowk.
 
 Driving on the wrong side for a distance of between 300 to 700 metres seems to be the norm here and commuters, many of them on two-wheelers, can be seen driving towards the shops in the market of Sector 51 and towards the Gijhore chowk.
 
 While commuters continue to drive on the wrong side, traffic police officers express helplessness in curbing the menace as wrong-side driving seems to be an omnipresent sight on almost all roads in Noida.
 
 Traffic inspector   said during rush hour, the priority is to keep traffic moving on correct routes towards their destinations. He said there are some people who do not want to drive on the right side despite U-turns on main roads. 
 
 “Even though these commuters get challaned, they still love to flout rules in the absence of traffic police. We do not have enough force to man all the points to curb this menace,” he said.
 
 
