
 The humble Indian chai is all the rage Down Under. From aromatic spice blends to anti-caffeine tea, Indian Australian chai entrepreneur  , the founder of  , is introducing the hot beverage to the Aussies. Uppma, who was named Australia's Businesswoman of the year for 2016, recently hosted a chai-tasting workshop at  . “In Australia, a country which lives on black coffee, finding a good cup of chai in a day was a tough task," Uppma said, adding, "So, inspired by my grandfather, who is a doctor specialising in that field, I started making tea for my friends in Australia, who would address it as 'chai tea' and while making the right blends and mixing spices, my hobby soon turned into my profession."
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Uppma, who hails from Chandigarh, visits Delhi once or twice a year. She said, "Most of my family is in Chandigarh, but I do visit Delhi once or twice a year. As an outsider, the city can be quite confronting, if you don’t have many acquaintances here.” She added, "I feel that the chai culture is evolving in NCR. Earlier, there used to be just a handful of coffee outlets in the city but now, a lot of chai shops have opened in the city. Apart from that, there are chaiwallahs on every corner. I would love to see a Delhi Chai Festival happening in the city. Every time I visit India, I take pictures and document the stories of chaiwallahs in India and share them online. During my stay in Delhi, I am planning to document stories of chaiwallahs in Delhi, if I get time. I’m also planning to head to Hauz Khas, as I have heard the place has a couple of chai joints.”
 
 
 
 
  
  
 Uppma Virdi with  , Deputy High Commissioner, Australian High Commission
 
 
 
 Uppma said, “I like my chai with a hint of subtle flavours of spices like saunf, elaichi, cardamom, aniseed, cinnamon, mace, rooibos and rose petals. Back in Australia, I love tea made with organic, unhomogenised cow’s milk with thick malai atop. Based on my observation, I have felt that in Australia, tea is considered more of a feminine drink while coffee is considered a robust, male drink; with my blends, I am trying to change this perception. In India, nothing tastes better than roadside chai. I am such a big fan of chai that for my mehendi ceremony, I got a custom-made chai kettle lehenga. In my house, you’ll find more teacups than anything else.”
 
 
 Chris Elstoft, Deputy High Commissioner, Australian High Commission, who sampled different chai flavours at the event, said, “Being an Australian, I have always had black coffee but during my stay in Delhi, I have started liking chai. Sometimes, I go out with my family to Old Delhi to relish a kulhad chai. After tasting so many varieties of tea, I have decided to cut back on coffee and have more of tea. I recently got to know about the Ayurvedic chai and non-caffeinated variants of chai, and I'm glad to know the healing properties of chai."
 
 -Aditi.Pancholi@timesgroup.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
