From Vijender Singh’s bronze at the Olympics to Manoj Kumar’s gold at Commonwealth,   from   have always done the country proud in international competitions. Now, Gurgaon’s   is all set to join these ranks. On Tuesday, the 22-year-old boxer beat Scotland’s Aqeel Ahmed 4-1 in the quarter-finals of the men’s flyweight (49 kg) category at the ongoing Gold Coast  . By entering the semis, Amit has assured himself, and India, of at least a bronze medal, but his coach and friends back in Gurgaon are certain that the boxer will return home with nothing less than a gold medal around his neck.

  
  Amit Panghal at the Gold Coast Commonwealth Games (@BFI_official)
 
 Amit originally hails from Mayna village near Rohtak, where he was spotted by coach Anil Dhankar, who is from the same village. The coach, who has trained Amit since he was a kid, tells us, “I brought him to Gurgaon as a kid because I was stationed here and there were better facilities here. He is a very bright talent and we all knew he was meant for bigger things.” Amit trained at the Combat Boxing Club in Sector 39 under Dhankar for several years before joining the Army as a junior commissioned officer. But he still makes it a point to visit his old academy and coach every time he is in town. The youngster will now face Uganda’s Juma Mitro in the semi-finals on Friday. “I am certain he will win the gold, and I am not saying this because I am excited. His game is such. He is one of the best in the world in his weight category,” says Dhankar. Amit won a bronze at the AIBA World Boxing Championships last year and this is his first appearance in the Commonwealth Game. His tendency of getting overawed led to Amit’s defeat in the semis of the World Championships at the hands of Olympic Champion Hasanboy Dusmatov last year. But his coach says the young pugilist has learnt from that experience. He explains, “Earlier, he had a tendency to get overawed by big names or occasions, but he is more mature now. He has learnt to control his emotions. Ab aisa nahin hoga.”
 
  
  
 In Gurgaon, Amit is a stalwart despite his age. In the three state-level competitions he has participated in here, he has triumphed every single time without losing a single round. His fellow boxers and coaches have decided to watch his semi-final fight by setting up a giant screen at their club. In Rohtak, where Amit’s family lives, the atmosphere is just as euphoric. His father, Vijender, says, “It is a moment of great pride for me, my family and the whole village. Now, we are just praying that he wins the next two fights and comes back with the gold.”
 
 
  
 
 
