HYDERABAD: At a time when hundreds of new vehicles are being added to city roads every day, the lack of parking facilities is taking a huge toll on traffic movement, with people being forced to park their cars on busy streets.

 "There is a dire need to increase the parking space in the city. Authorities buy land only for road widening and completely ignore the pavements and parking spaces. Even if the multi- level parking comes up in the city, people should have a safe place to walk. They should not be forced to walk on the roads," said  , who works for a NGO, working in the area of road and pedestrian safety.
 
 "Most people are forced to park on the streets as very few commercial complexes have dedicated parking lots. Its a big problem, which needs to be answered right away," said  , a resident of Ameerpet. Out of a total of 17 multi-level parking complexes planned in the city, only one complex located in   managed to reach the tender stage, before builders backed out. "After the bidders backed out, we have made changes in the proposal and   (HRDC) will now execute the project," said  , chief engineer of   ( ) project department. 
 
 The remaining complexes are under various stages and land acquisition is yet to be done for some of them, officials say. Another parking complex which has been proposed near   will also be executed by the HRDC.
 
 The total cost of the project of the parking complexes is 62 crore, which unfortunately was bid by only one bidder. For any other civic project, the number of bidders most of the times exceeds 50. 
 
 To fight the parking crunch, the civic body on went through a proposal of 'stack' parking facility in the city which requires only 140 square feet of space. 
 
 In stack mode of parking, cars will be stacked one over another in multiple levels. Each unit set up on 140 square feet can accommodate 12 cars. The private agency which displayed the presentation said that an app to locate the available parking lot will also be available with the stack parking facility. 
 
 "If the project is approved, one parking area will be set up in GHMC head office and one parking each will be set up in the zonal office on pilot basis," said Hyderabad Mayor  . The stack parking can be extended vertically as well horizontally as per the requirement.
 
 
