PATIALA: It was a bittersweet final day at the Federation Cup senior national athletics championships, the final qualifier for the Gold Coast  . Triple jumper   and men’s 400m hurdler   booked their   berth after breaching their respective qualification mark. However, another star triple jumper and both national and meet record holder, Renjith Maheshwary hurt himself seriously during his competition round after slipping and landing awkwardly on the hard synthetic turf.

 
 
 
 Renjith, who looked determined to confirm his CWG ticket and had even recorded a jump of 16.51m in his second attempt, slipped during his fifth attempt as he was about to take the leap. It resulted in him hurting his left knee and ankle. He also dislocated his index finger and had a couple of bruises. He was stretchered out of the competition arena in an ambulance to the NIS centre’s medical facility, where he will undergo treatment. Luckily, there was no fracture, as confirmed by the Athletics Federation of India’s (AFI) medical team, but his CWG dreams are over. Nonetheless, he claimed the silver for his 16.51m effort.
 
 
 
 For Arpinder, there were no such concerns as the Glasgow CWG bronze medallist cleared the qualification mark of 16.60m with an impressive jump of 16.61m in his fifth attempt. This will be Arpinder’s second successive CWG appearance. Another athlete to make the cut was Tamil Nadu’s Ayyasamy, who clocked 49.45s to not only claim the gold in the men’s 400m hurdles but also break the national record of 49.51s, set by Joseph Abraham in 2007. The qualification mark was exactly 49.45s.
 
 “I was suffering from typhoid fever some 10 days back before coming to Patiala. I somehow managed to recover for this race. I am happy to make the cut,” said Ayyasamy, who had competed in 400m event as well but finished fifth with a timing of 47.08s. “I hadn’t expected this performance before the race. I am still making a comeback after suffering a fracture in the shinbone which kept me out of the track for one year,” added the 4x400m relay team member of the Rio Olympics. Three other athletes - Siddhanth Thingalaya in men’s 110m hurdles, Navjeet Dhillon in women’s shot put and Purnima Hembram in women’s heptathlon - came close to breaching the qualification mark, but lacked the finishing touch.
 
 The Federation Cup saw nine athletes qualify for the CWG - Arpinder Singh (triple jump), Dharun Ayyasamy (men’s 400m hurdle), L Suriya (women’s 10,000m), Tejaswin Shankar and Siddharth Yadav (men’s high jump), Tajinder Toor (men’s shot put), Neeraj Chopra (men’s javelin throw), Seema Antil (women’s discus throw) and Hima Das (women’s 400m).
 
 Four athletes - M Sreeshankar (men’s long jump), Purnima Hembram (women’s heptathlon), Jinson Johnson (men’s 1500m) and Navjeet Dhillon (women’s discus throw) - are also certain to board the flight. Four walkers had made the cut from the national race walking championships in Delhi. The 37-member contingent will be announced by AFI on Friday.
 
