By: Anindita Acharya

 CHANDIGARH: At the   (ART) centre of the   (Post Graduate Institute Of Medical Education and Research) for  , you might notice a woman in her midforties, sitting in a corner, wearing a big smile, engaging in polite conservation with the visitors, scribbling down their profile. She is Meena Vij, who lost her husband to AIDS in 2004.
 
 She was in her second pregnancy in 1994 when she learnt she was HIV +ve. She aborted the child and confronted her husband, who ran a hotel. “After initial hesitance, he accepted his relationships with multiple partners,” said Meena, whose son is 27 now, and HIV negative.
  
  
 There was no ‘happily ever after’ in Meena’s life with her husband, but today she helps the people living with HIV (PLHIV) in Chandigarh find love. She has married off eight of them. Her face lights up at announcing that barring one, the rest of the couples are proud parents of HIV-negative children. “Of the myths about the disease, one is that the babies born to a mother with HIV also test positive,” Meena said. “People are unaware that if the mother and her baby receive proper medication during pregnancy and after birth, the chances of it are very less.”
 
 
 
 
 Meena is a member of the Chandigarh Network of People living with HIV/AIDS, or CNP+ for short. She is also a peer counsellor of Vihaan, a CNP+ programme. Network’s president Pooja Thakur was shunned by her in-laws when she tested positive along with her two sons a decade ago. Her eldest son, however, is HIV negative. Her husband died of AIDS. Pooja dared to go public about her HIV status in order to work for HIV awareness and counselling.
 
 Her positive attitude towards life rubbed on to several women and gave them the courage to live. One of them is today a member of Chandigarh State AIDS Control Society (SACS), CNP+, and Vihaan. She joined the network in 2007 after losing her husband to AIDS. She could move to Chandigarh with her four children because of a supportive brother.
 
 Created in November 2005, CNP+ meets on the 25th of every month, for tasks such as introducing new members, following up on the missed cases, and linking the members with ART centres. Today, the network has 1,000-plus registered members, who pay an annual subscription of Rs 100.
 
 CNP+ and Vihaan participate in many programmes of the state society. “We tell the PLHIV to visit the 12 integrated counselling and testing centres (ICTCs) in Chandigarh for free testing. We ask people to practice safe sex,” said Rahul, HIV+ve for more than 10 years.
 
 
 
 
 Meena said: “More important than fighting the disease is to fight the social stigma that keeps people from sharing their HIV status with family and taking treatment. We share our life stories with these people to boost their morale. We are living examples that with proper medication and diet, one can live with this virus for years,” said Meena, HIV +ve for 24 years.
 
 The PLHIVs live as outcasts. Family and friends discriminate against them, while even doctors judge them. Pooja asked for countrywide order for the doctors and clerks to write “universal precaution” instead of “HIV positive” on their hospital cards, “so that the chemists don’t look at us differently when they see the stamp”.
 
 
 
 
 “If our identity is revealed, our children won’t get admission in schools,” said a member of the network, seeking government support for a home for HIV-positive children and a higher monthly pension for widows and children from the present Rs 1,000 and Rs 700, respectively. Ask Pooja about the free bus pass in Chandigarh for PLHIVs and she has a hearty laugh. “For seven years, no progress,” she said.
 
