Nagpur: Noted neurosurgeon Lokendra Singh has moved the District Consumer Disputers Redressal Forum against popular travel agency Make My Trip charging it with cheating, deficiency in service and unfair trade practices. The forum issued notices to the Gurgaon-headquartered Make My Trip and its chief executive officer, asking them to file a reply before March 31. Swapnil Shingne, who received the notice on behalf of Make My Trip, said he would file a reply by the deadline. Singh charged the respondents of failing to deliver air tickets from Seychelles to Durban despite booking them in advance by paying the entire amount. The respondents also failed to inform them about the tickets not being booked. The doctor and his wife came to know about it at the eleventh hour when they reached the ticket counter at Mumbai airport with their baggage. They were left stranded at the airport for a long time till a travel agent from Nagpur booked tickets in another airlines. Singh, who filed a joint complaint with his wife Madhubala through counsel Shrikant Saoji, has prayed for directives to respondents to pay them Rs12.16 lakh towards physical and mental agony caused to them. The amount includes Rs1.16 lakh towards tickets, Rs10 lakh towards compensation for harassment at 12% per annum till its realization, and Rs1 lakh towards cost of proceedings. Singh was invited as international faculty for the 26th conference of Neurological Society of South Africa on August 4 last year in Durban. He had planned to go for a leisure trip after the event.  He submitted all documents like identity cards to the respondents for verification and booking air tickets. Their tickets were booked through Etihad Airlines and flight was to commence on August 2 from Mumbai. After a break at Abu Dhabi, the Singhs were to be transferred to Seychelles and then to Durban. The complainants also paid for the return journey tickets. When the Singhs reached Etihad counter at Mumbai airport, they were first told to move to Jet Airways counter. After an hour, they were shocked on being told that their tickets from Seychelles to Durban were not booked. They were made to run pillar to post and make frenetic calls to Make My Trip who did not respond. The Make My Trip officials passed the buck on Etihaad Airways for not booking their tickets and told them to contact later, said Singh. The doctor was forced to make international calls to Etihaad Airways at Seychelles, but he got no response. In the melee, their scheduled flight to Abu Dabhi departed without them. They had already booked a hotel stay in South Africa and taxis by paying Rs3 lakh of their onward journey. Singh called a known agent who managed to arrange their tickets by another flight to Durban by charging Rs62,124. “Else, he would have missed his international conference which would have dented country’s reputation as well,” according to his counsel Saoji.