NEW DELHI: While waiting for the final approval of the Delhi government for the metro  , Delhi Metro Rail Corporation ( ) has started the preparatory work to keep itself ready for construction. 

 An architectural firm will soon be hired to finalise designs of stations and viaducts of two corridors — Inderlok to Indraprastha (12.58km) and the Majlis Park-RK Ashram (10.88km) stretch of the   West-RK Ashram line. 
 
 DMRC has already started geo-technical surveys at different sites where Phase IV stations are planned. According to a source, the work would help DMRC make up for some of the time lost due to the delay in getting the approval. 
 
 The 104km-long Phase IV, which is likely to cost Rs 55,208 crore, has six corridors linking the city’s fringe areas with its central parts. Though the Delhi government had approved the project in January 2017, it had sought an exemption from paying its share of ‘subordinate debt’ for central taxes. However, the plea was rejected by the Centre. The subordinate debt is a component of the total share to be paid by the government as both the central and Delhi governments pay an equal share as equity in the metro project.
 
  
  
 The Delhi government later asked about the GST implication on the funding, which DMRC claims to have submitted. Transport minister Kailash Gahlot told TOI that the file had gone back to the Union urban development ministry for GST calculations. 
 
 “Without the final approval from the Delhi government with a financial commitment, the Centre won’t give its approval and we can’t start construction,” said a DMRC official. “At present, contractors engaged for construction of Phase III are on the way of completing their work. If there is a delay in starting the work on Phase IV, it would mean mobilising workforce and machinery afresh, which could further delay the project, apart from cost escalations,” he added. Hence, the official said, DMRC has floated a tender to engage a detail design consultant for civil, architectural and building services. “Actual work will start only on receiving the government’s nod.” 
 
 The consultant will provide the structural and architectural designs of RK Ashram, Nabi Karim, Sadar Bazar, Pul Bangash, Ghanta Ghar, Derawal Nagar, Ashok Vihar, Azadpur, Inderlok, Daya Basti, DB Gupta Road, Ajmal Khan Road, New Delhi, Delhi Gate, Delhi Secretariat and Indraprastha stations, and of the tunnels between Krishna Park and Janakpuri, and Inderlok and   stations.
 
 
