MUMBAI: In the aftermath of last year’s December 29 blaze, corporators are saying that the civic body’s ease of doing business initiative seems to have backfired. 

 Following the fire at two eateries in Kamala Mills compound that killed 14 people, it has emerged that one of the resto-bar 1Above had been granted a provisional fire department’s NOC that was valid provided the proprietors complied with a list fire safety norms satisfactorily. However, having little regard for the norms the eatery continued to function, said sources. 
 
 “The problem is that under the ‘ease of doing business’ initiative, the onus lies on the premises owner to comply with the conditions. We have seen that it is not happening,” a civic official said. “The applicants are not responsible enough to adhere to the conditions once they get an NOC,” he added.
 
 Currently, restaurants in the city need an NOC from the fire brigade, a shop and establishments licence and a health NOC before starting business. A civic official said that under the ease of doing business initiative, the BMC had decided to provide the provisional NOC in order to encourage new businesses.
 
 Mumbai played a key role in setting new benchmarks for investor friendly initiatives. In the 2017 World Bank report, the country witnessed a jump in its ranking from 130 in 2016 to 100 last year. 
 
 Sources said that the report into the Kamala Mills fire to be submitted by the civic chief Ajoy Mehta to chief minister Devendra Fadnavis next week may recommend a “robust” compliance system. The report may suggest a time frame that should be given to a premises following which the NOC may stand invalid. Sources said that the policy gaps, which led to failure in compliance have been studied and future steps would be suggested like strengthening the civic inspection process. Activist Anil Galgali said that it is essential that those officials who provide the NOC ensure that compliance is done as well. 
 
 Leader of the opposition in the BMC Ravi Raja said that the licensing process has been relaxed under the ease of doing business initiative that many have started taking advantage of it. 
 
 Bandra corporator Asif Zakeria said that under new rules of ease of doing business the documents are expected to be uploaded online. “However after the NOCs are uploaded civic officials do not conduct the requisite site inspection. Civic officials turn a blind eye to the shortcomings of establishments,” said Zakeria.
 
 
