NAGPUR: ‘Youthcion’, a group of enthusiastic youths, offered a unique musical tribute to the   at   on Saturday. The theme of the programme was ‘Guard of Honour’ wherein emphasis was laid on contribution of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar to the society. 

 Marking the Republic Day, they showcased various enlightening skits and patriotic songs, besides discussing the journey of India towards being a republic. 
 
 The programme started on a high note with the song ‘Ye Buddha ki dharti yuddha na chahe’, presented by Bhoyar, which was followed by an enchanting performance by   on popular song ‘Jaha dal dal par sone ki chidiya’. One of the most lauded songs of the evening was ‘Hai preet jaha ki reet sada’, rendered by  , which filled the atmosphere with patriotism.
 
 Singers Pallavi Nitnavre, ‘Sa Re Ga Ma Pa’ fame Akansha Nagarkar and others presented ‘Deshbhaktiche tu praman dile’, ‘Desh mera rangeela’ and ‘Bhim ghe punha janma’. Only English song in the event, ‘Ambedkarism’ by Bansod, was pleasing and evoked an encore.
 
 The show conducted by youngsters was a perfect blend of Hindi, Marathi and English duets and solos.
 
  was the music director while the accompanying artistes were Sawai on keyboard, Praful Waghmare on tabla, Kamlesh Bangde on dholak, Nikhil Ramteke on guitar,   on octopad and Gaurang Gajbhiye on drums.
 
 Other than songs, various skits were staged by youngsters that focused on issues like female discrimination, hypocrisy in society, equality and significance of the Constitution. The performances drew attention of masses to the thoughts and opinions of the youths, their beliefs and reasons for celebration. 
 
  and Meenakshi Patil compèred the show, enlightening the audience with interesting tales in correspondence with the upcoming songs.
 
 Speaking to TOI about the purpose of the event, organizer Gajbhiye said, “Importance of the Republic Day, Constitution of India and Ambedkar’s role is not understood by a majority of people nowadays. Through this programme, we want to spread the message of integrity, equality and humanity.”
 
 
