NEW DELHI: Anil Sahai, a middle-aged man from Kapashera, has been making rounds of DJB   to get a permission for installing a   but to no avail. “Officials just keep on sending me from one zonal office to another. If they give us enough  , why would we even want a borewell?” said Sahai while waiting with a bunch of applications at Varunalaya, the   headquarters at Jhandewalan. 

 
 Sahai is just one of many Delhiites who have moved   (DJB) with a similar request. Senior officials say no permission for installing borewell units are being given but the pile of applications for voluntary borewell approval/regularisation has already reached 11,115. The largest chunk — 6,259 — has been filed under the domestic category while there are also requests for agricultural, commercial and hospital use.
 
 The total number of applications is more than double of 5,000 legal borewells and tubewells registered with DJB, a large number of which is in south and southwest Delhi, which have severely depleted groundwater levels as per the latest report of Central Ground Water Commission. 
 
 Against the demand projections of 1,160 MGD, the capital has the installed capacity of only 913 MGD water supply. The deficit has led to an alarming situation with illegal borewells mushrooming and groundwater levels depleting. 
 
 While accepting the need for borewells, the DJB vice chairman and MLA from Sangam Vihar, Dinesh Mohania, pointed out that the matter had been pending in court. “The regularisation policy for borewells came in 2012 but hasn’t been notified. The policy should still hold true. But the executive body has said the order needs to be refreshed with a new approval by the LG,” said Mohania. “The court should tell us what to do. If Haryana stops water and people are prohibited from extracting groundwater, where would they go?” 
 
 Mohania, however, agreed that there were very few registered borewells and most of them have been allocated for irrigation purposes. He said DJB might bring in a new policy if the old policy is not refreshed. 
 
 On January 30, NGT had directed the government to seal all unauthorised borewells in the capital within three months. Since then, DJB has sealed over 800 illegal borewells. 
 
