GURUGRAM: A 28-year-old woman, reportedly   over the birth of a third daughter, strangled her one-month-old girl before hanging herself on Thursday, said police. Mamta Devi alias Bala, according to her father, herself is responsible for the turn of events, and her in-laws had not been pressuring her in any way.

 Mamta, wife of Manmohan alias Monu, a resident of Chandu village, was reportedly depressed after giving birth to a girl on December 25, 2017. On the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday, she was sleeping with her daughter, while her mother-in-law slept on another bed in the same room. Around 8:00am on Thursday, she allegedly strangled her daughter and went outside the room, saying she needed to go to the toilet. However, she went to another room and allegedly hanged herself to death.
 
 After 15 minutes, the mother-in-law called for Mamta, but she did not return. Later, she went to check on Mamta and found her body hanging from a ceiling fan. The mother-in-law raised an alarm and other family members as well as neighbours gathered at the spot. After a while, the family found out that Mamta had killed her daughter before taking the extreme step. Mamta’s father-in-law informed her father and police about the incident.
 
 According to Mamta’s father, Jagdish, who is a resident of Sikanderpur Badha village, his only daughter had got married with Manmohan on February 27, 2009. Before giving birth to her third daughter, Sneha, on December 25, 2017, she had had two daughters — seven-year-old Mahi and four-year-old Kunj. “My daughter was very depressed after her third daughter was born. She wanted a boy, this time. We visited her and tried to make her understand, but nothing worked. She finally took this extreme step. She is responsible for her death and her daughter’s  ,” he said.
 
 An FIR has been registered against Mamta under Section 302 (murder) of IPC at Rajendra Park police station. “We handed over the bodies to the family after the autospy on Thursday. Mamta’s father did not blame anyone for the incident. He claimed that his daughter was depressed over the birth of a third daughter. Her in-laws were not disturbing her. A case of murder has been registered against her,” said ASI Ravinder Yadav.
 
 
