Dancing and singing talent hunt shows being a craze among youngsters is no breaking news. However, the craze affecting the number of admissions at Lucknow’s Bhatkhade Music Institute, Deemed University, is definitely something worth mentioning. Interestingly, the institute has seen an increase of upto 100 to 150 students in the past two years in every batch of students in vocal classical and semi-classical music and dance, owing to the craze to participate in talent hunt shows. In fact, in the coming session, more than 2050 students have appeared for the entrance examination, which makes for a good number, say the institute professors.
Talking about the trend of training in music to participate in talent hunt shows on TV, on the rise among youngsters in Lucknow and other cities of UP, Shruti Sadolikar Katkar, VC,   Deemed University, says, "We are getting children who want to learn music in a formal way, but then the core thought behind this is that a lot of them want instant fame and glamour by participating in talent hunt shows on television. Today, everyone likes to see themselves on TV, getting attention from the audience and gaining followers on social media." 
 Dr Kumkum Dhar, professor, faculty of Dance at the institute, also agrees and says the number of admissions in the institute has gone up in the recent years of children and youngsters, wanting to train in dance and music to be able to participate in talent hunt shows on TV. "Along with the students, the parents’ desire to see their children on talent hunt shows is also increasing, for which they have started sending their kids to learn dance and music professionally. Before going to any talent hunt show — be it a dance or singing — the students themselves want to train professionally so that they can give a tough competition to the other participants. Training in classical singing or dancing helps them in knowing the basics because of which they are able to perform better on bigger platforms."
 
  
  The number of admissions has gone up at Bhatkhande owing to the craze among youngsters to participate in talent hunt shows (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui)
 
 
 Agreeing with this is Dr  , professor, vocal music, who says, "Bhatkhande holds a legendary past where a lot of top musicians and dancers in the industry have studied and taught. A lot of young students are coming to Bhatkhande to train for talent hunt shows. With the teacher’s guidance and making use of the latest technology, they are able to do well in such competitions."
  Take for example the case of Bulleya and Radio fame singer  , who has also been a student of Bhakhande. Amit says that his training at the institute helped him in his career as a playback singer. "The institute has an important role to play in every aspiring singer’s life. If someone plans to participate in talent hunt shows or become a singer in  , then Bhatkhande is the place to train at."
 Deepak Rathore, a third-year student, pursuing Bachelors in Performing Arts, from Bhatkhande, feels that the university’s tag has become a brand through which one gets a lot of respect while auditioning for reality shows. "From the last two years, we saw a lot of admissions in Bachelors of Performing Arts. Most freshers seem to be enthusiastic as a lot of talent hunt shows have started auditioning in Lucknow," says Deepak who’s auditioned for several TV shows. "You get a lot of respect when you tell them that you are a student of Bhatkhande. Also, having trained in the art forms helps us in performing well at the auditions, raising our chances of participating in TV shows," adds Deepak.
 
 -- By Adnaan Rizvi
 
 
