GURUGRAM: Burglars are having a free run in   as the residential colony lacks gates at both entry and exit points. In the last two days, the side mirrors of six luxury cars have been stolen and two cases of houses being robbed have been reported. Residents attribute the increase in thefts to removal of the iron gates by the department of town and country planning ( ).

 The enforcement wing of DTCP, on January 29, had dismantled the iron gates installed on internal roads of Palam Vihar. The action was taken following a complaint at the chief minister’s window against the gates, which the complainant claimed to have obstructed free flow of traffic.
 
  
  
  
 
 
 The residents welfare association (RWA) of Palam Vihar, which had installed the gates, levelled allegations against the department for compromising the safety and security of colony residents. “Palam Vihar’s three sectors are spread across 650 acres, touching the Delhi border. It is a porous colony with entries from all sides, and is thus an easy target for criminals, who enter from Delhi and vanish through the border after committing a crime,” said Sunil Yadav, president, Palam Vihar RWA.
 
 Yadav said the RWA is maintaining the colony with its own funds. “The RWA is managing the infrastructure of the colony, road and sewerage from money collected from residents. We have installed fencing on the entire periphery of the colony at the cost of Rs 60 lakh. Besides, iron gates were installed at entry and exit points. All these measures had helped keep a check on crime,” said Yadav, adding they had highlighted all these issues before the department and requested them to visit the site before removing the gates. “Without considering our request, the department demolished all six colony gates. Some of them were internal gates without any further approach. All our pleas, including that we would keep the gates open during daytime, were ignored,” said Yadav.
 
 District town planner (enforcement) Rajendra T Sharma said, “In January 2014, DTCP had issued a guideline for installation of gates in residential colonies. Since then, gates installed at the entry and exit points in licensed colonies are considered illegal, if the RWA hasn’t taken necessary approval in accordance with the prescribed rule,” said Sharma.
 
