Chennai: Less than 3 years after it launched its volume model Kwid in India, French auto major Renault is facing trouble on its best-selling car. The Kwid, which became a runaway success clocking over 2,00,000 vehicles in the two-and-a-half years since its launch, has seen its volumes drop by 22% in the April-February period. According to SIAM data, Kwid sales skidded from 99,045 units in April-February 16-17 to 77,236 units in the same period this year. 

 Company officials say the retails are still healthy even though wholesales have taken a hit. 
 
 Dealer sources say the shifting of the demand from entry level to premium hatchbacks as well as too few product upgrades in these nearly 3 years is responsible for the Kwid losing some of its sheen in the marketplace.
 
 When contacted a Renault India spokesman said in an email reply, “The numbers reflect our business focus to ensure that we maintain a healthy network stock, making our retails much higher than our wholesales.” Dealer sources say the main reason for the demand dwindle is the fact that Kwid’s last major product update — the launch of the AMT and the 1 litre SCe (smart control efficiency) variants in mid 2016 — was nearly 2 years ago. The company did roll out a Super Hero edition last month as part of its collaboration with Marvel comics but that’s more a marketing effort. “Typically the honeymoon period for a new model, even a best-selling one, is 12-18 months,” said a rival car marketer. “After that the demand starts dwindling and the pull depends upon after sales service, resale value and marketing incentives like discounts and exchange benefits.”
 
 Also the segment itself has not grown as much as the premium compact and compact SUV segments. Market leader Maruti too has seen flat growth (just under 2%) in the entry segment despite multiple products, volume scale and network strength. The overall category (with Maruti, Hyundai, Renault and M&M) has actually shrunk from 5,36,472 units to 5,23,525 units in the April-February period.
 
 
 
