KOZHIKODE: Already facing the heat from Samastha Kerala Jem-Iyyathul Ulema over the participation of two members from the Panakkad family in the   state conference, the IUML leaders will keep away from the events scheduled to be held here to mark the 40th anniversary of   headed by Kanthapuram A P Aboobacker Musaliyar from January 4-7. 

 Ministers, people's representatives and leaders from across the political spectrum, including CPM, Congress, BJP and other parties, will attend the conference to be held at Karanthur. IUML leaders had participated in the Markaz conference held in previous years.
 
 Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the national integration conference held as part of the anniversary to be held on January 2. Other leaders scheduled to attend the four-day meet include opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala, former chief minister Oommen Chandy, CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, BJP leader P S   and JD(U) leader M P Veerandrakumar.
 
 When asked about the IUML leaders not figuring in the programme list, Kanthapuram said at a press conference on Monday that they are yet to confirm their participation.
 
 "They have said that they are still thinking whether to participate in the programme or not," he said.
 
 It is learnt that the IUML is toeing a careful line and do not want to further irk a section of the Samastha who are upset over Panakkad family members participating in the Mujahid conference on Saturday despite the strong objection raised by Samastha leaders.
 
 However, IUML state general secretary K P A Majeed said that he did not know which party leaders were invited for the Markaz conference. The conference will be inaugurated by Yusri Muhammed from  . As many as 1,261 students who have completed courses in Islamic Theology, along with 198 students in Quran studies, will be awarded certificates at a convocation ceremony on January 7. Around 39,000 students are currently studying in various educational institutions of Markaz located in 22 states in the country. 
 
