The green warrior of Coimbatore,  , who has planted more than 3 lakh saplings till date, loves the radio. And, he has a strong reason behind it. “Three years ago, a young boy met with an accident in Podanur. He was admitted to the government hospital, Coimbatore, but his gypsy family couldn’t locate him until they heard the announcement of the same on   in a special service programme. The family reunited after the newscast.”

 Inspired by the incident, Yoganathan decided to pay his own tribute to radio. The award-winning   has churned out a short film titled Radio, in which he narrates the incident. The short film was recently released in the city as part of the World Radio Day celebrations.
 
 “The plot of the film remains the same, except that the accident victim here is portrayed as a mute boy. The film portrays the importance of radio in our lives. I have seen the gypsy community always carrying a radio while on the move. In the film too, I have portrayed that.” He adds, “Radio is a crucial part of our lives, especially the poor. They listen to radio while toiling hard at work. Radio is their source of information and entertainment. Even during the times of crises, be it floods or other calamities, radio plays a crucial role. In our day to day lives, radio provides us important announcements, like traffic jams and news bits. The best part about radio is that your work doesn’t get affected, unlike television.”
 
  of the popular satire YouTube channel is the hero of the film. Yoganathan has not only directed the film, but has also portrayed a crucial role in it. “It was a unique experience directing and acting in a film. We shot the majority of the portions at Hindusthan College of Arts and Science.”
 
 The conductor-ecowarrior has yet another short film in his kitty –Ka- a silent film. “The film revolves around my favourite subject- environment. The plot revolves around few school children, who mourn the uprooting of a tree and plant a sapling at the same spot. I want my films to be simple but convey a message.”
 
 When quizzed about the progress of his tree plantation drive, Yoganathan says, “The biggest challenge is to ensure that the saplings grow well. I have been monitoring them closely. The saplings planted in educational institutions look fine but the ones in public places need attention. The public should also play a crucial role in eco-conservation and realise that saving the environment isn’t the responsibility of a select few. Only then, can we look toward a green future. We need to address the absence of green cover in the city as a matter of priority.”
 
  
 
