SHIMLA/NEW DELHI: In peak winter, temperatures in Shimla currently resemble early summer as the hill state faces a drought-like situation with hardly any rain or snow for more than 50 days now. The conditions are threatening the Rs 3,500 crore apple economy of Himachal Pradesh.

 According to experts, though the prolonged dry spell may yet fulfill the requirement of chilling hours for the apple crop, the moisture level needed during fruiting could be difficult to meet.
 
 The drought-like situation has left apple growers as well as horticulture farmers depressed and dejected as activities such as new plantations or use of fertilizers in apple orchards need good moisture levels.
 
 All eyes are now on the wet spell expected to hit north India on Tuesday. According to the met department, many places in Himachal may get much-needed rain (and snow in the higher reaches) from the evening of January 23, although Uttarakhand will be the centre of activity. However, the spell is expected to be brief.
 
 “It’s a fast moving system which is likely to pass by the morning of January 24,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre in Delhi.
 
 Srivastava said the unusually warm conditions in the hills were at least partly due to absence of snowfall. Day temperatures in Shimla in the past week have been as high as 10 degrees above normal.
 
 
  
 
 
 Apple is most important fruit crop of Himachal Pradesh and area under its cultivation has increased from 400 hectares in 1950-51 to 1,10,679 hectares in 2015-16. Apple is largely produced in the districts of Shimla, Kullu, Kinnaur, Mandi, Chamba and Sirmaur, with people in the tribal district of Lahaul-Spiti too now taking to apple plantation in a big way.
 
 “Nights in upper Shimla have become warmer than Chandigarh and Delhi. Under such weather, how can the requirement of chilling hours be met. The moisture levels are low as there has been no rain and snow in the state since December. These are not good signs for the apple economy,” said Ashutosh Chauhan a resident of Ratnari village of Shimla, who is also vice-president of Progessive Growers Association, India, a body of apple growers.
 
 Dr J C Kuniyal, senior scientist at the G P Pant Institute of Himalayan Development and Environment at Mohal in Kullu district said snowfall was not only necessary for a good apple crop but it is also crucial for recharging of underground water sources. “Melting of snow during summers not only provides water for irrigation and drinking, but also for hydro power generation. This winter very less snowfall is likely to affect all these sectors in the coming summer,” he added.
 
 Himachal Pradesh principal secretary (revenue and disaster management) Onkar Chand Sharma said the state had a cumulative rain deficit of 49% the post-monsoon period, that is, since October 1. Last week, Sharma held a meeting with senior officers of various departments to take stock of preparedness for a drought-like situation later in the year
 
 Officials said in the meeting that there was no deficiency in moisture levels in many districts yet. However, if the dry spell continued for the next two weeks, moisture levels would be impacted.
 
 Sharma said all deputy commissioners and departments concerned had been informed in advance to prepare contingency plans to tackle a possible drought situation. They have also been directed to make necessary arrangements for tankers in water-scarce areas as well as fodder for livestock.
 
