PUDUCHERRY/CUDDALORE/VILLUPURAM: The dawn-to-dusk   called by the   on Thursday over the Union government’s failure to set up the   (CMB) and   Water Regulation Committee (CWRC) was total in Puducherry and Karaikal districts and near total in Cuddalore and Villupuram districts.

 Barring a few stray incidents of violence in which 13 buses, including 11 Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) buses, were damaged – the bandh passed off peacefully. All the shops, trade houses, business and commercial establishments in Cuddalore, Villupuram, Puducherry and Karaikal districts had downed the shutters in solidarity with the DMK bandh call.
 
 Private buses, auto-rickshaws, share autos and tempos were off the roads, while only TNSTC buses plied in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. However, most of the TNSTC buses entering Puducherry were forced to halt at their depot by the protesters. A few TNSTC buses plied with a few passengers in Cuddalore and Villupuram districts. The windscreens of six buses, including four TNSTC ones, were damaged in Puducherry when protesters pelted the vehicles with stones. The windscreens of five TNSTC buses in Villupuram and two TNSTC buses in Gingee were also damaged.
 
 Also, cinema theatres in Puducherry suspended the shows until 6pm on Thursday. Cinema theatres in Tamil Nadu are on strike. Most of the private   had declared holiday on Thursday to avoid any inconvenience to students and staff members. Most of the government offices and establishments, and private industrial units functioned with thin attendance. Vegetable, fruit, flower and fish markets wore a deserted look.
 
 Most of the banks functioned with skeletal staff. Karnataka Bank was closed on Thursday as a precautionary measure. It may be recalled that during the bandh for the same cause in September 2016, 36 members of pro-Tamil outfits were arrested for forcibly entering Karnataka Bank and creating ruckus.
 
 Close to 10,000 people, including former ministers, MLAs, former legislators of the DMK and its alliance partners, courted arrest when they staged   at various centres. However, police released all the arrested in the evening. The protesters picketed   offices. A few hotels and private companies that were open in the morning downed their shutters after protesters warned them of dire consequences.
 
 However, pushcart vendors selling tender coconuts made brisk business and exhausted their stock by afternoon as none of the tea stalls were open in these regions.
 
 
