MUMBAI: A 17-year-old boy has been   for questioning in connection with the   of former Shiv Sena corporator  . Senior police officials said the boy was present at the crime scene in   (E) and is likely to have ‘played an active role’ in the fatal attack. Two others,   and  , were arrested on Monday for conspiring to murder Sawant. They were produced before a magistrate’s court on Tuesday and remanded in police custody till January 18. 

 On Sunday night, two-time corporator Sawant was returning to his residence at Sur Apartment in Thakur Complex with a friend, Vinod Sonawane, on the latter’s bike when someone in a passing autoricksaw aimed a kick at the two-wheeler. Sawant and Sonawane fell on the road. While Sonawane went after the man who had kicked his bike, the two other occupants of the auto stepped out and stabbed Sawant nearly 20 times. 
 
 According to the police, the   is not from Mumbai and may have been brought to the city by prime accused,   Pawar, who has extortion and assault cases against him, and one of his accomplices are on the run. 
 
  
  
 Jogdand told police that the murder plan was hatched nearly a month ago. “Dodhia, who is an acquaintance of Pawar, was given the task of finding a driver who could ferry the group for several hours as they tailed Sawant. He zeroed on Jogdand, a Dahisar resident, who has a criminal record. Jogdand did not use his own vehicle for the crime; he arranged for an autorickshaw,” said a po lice officer. Police are now probing whether the gang had attempted a bid on Sawant’s life earlier. Jogdand has admitted to tailing Sawant for four hours on Sunday before the fatal attack. 
 
 Police said Pawar used to be close to Sawant before the two parted on bitter terms. Pawar was jealous of Sawant doing well in life. Police also suspect a financial dispute between the two men. “The duo has been at loggerheads since 2010. Pawar initially lived in bank quarters in Kandivli (E) with his family, then moved to his brother’s place at Byculla. He presently lives in Virar. His family says they have severed ties with him,” said an official.
 
 
