NOIDA: Offices of the district consumer forum ( ), district inspector of schools (DIOS), basic shiksha adhikari ( ), sales tax and commandant of home guards- located just behind the district collectorate have literally become inaccessible since the last two-three days.

 With these offices surrounded by stinking drainage water on all sides which is even entering inside some of these office buildings, the visitors who come here for official work joke that they have “to cross a river” to reach to these offices.
 
 The situation is so grave that the lawyers, judges working at the consumer forum have to be dropped by junior employees or consumers to reach inside the office as the water has risen to a height of about two feet.
 
 Situation is same at the office of the commandant of home guards located next to the DCF office.
 
 “On Tuesday, I went to argue a case which was being heard at the consumer forum but found no way inside as the water had accumulated till around 50 meters outside the office. Some bricks had been laid in an attempt to make a temporary path which I tried to step on. But, it resulted in a fall and I spoiled my clothes. It was disgusting,” said a senior lawyer of the district court on condition of anonymity.
 
 Aditya Bhati, who has a chamber in the forum's premises told TOI that while the water had been collecting in the surroundings for the past three-four days, on Tuesday night, it started entering the forum office which got flooded by Wednesday morning. Lawyers and judges are taking help from bikers who drop them till the entry of the forum. Yesterday, even the parking was full of water and we had to park our vehicles on the main road,” he said.
 
 While the clerks and officials are pestered by the unhygienic conditions caused due to the water flowing out of a drainage abutting the forum office, they can be heard exchanging the jokes about the offices following the “Swachh Bharat Mission” too literally.
 
 Water surrounds the BSA, DIOS and the sales tax offices too where clerks and junior officials can be seen moving with clothes on their faces to avoid the stink arising out of the drainage water.
 
 A senior official said that the issue of the drainage was not new and earlier too, water would accumulate around the offices. “The matter has been brought to the notice of the DM in an official meeting and CEO Greater   through a letter a few months ago but to no avail,” he said.
 
 “The problem has risen out of a culvert in the drainage flowing next to the offices. This culvert has been jammed with polythene coming from the residential areas in   and water is flowing out. While the   officials had started pumping out the water, the main problem of the culvert was not looked into,” said an official who frequents the forum.
 
 DL Verma, senior manager, work circle 4, Greater Noida   told TOI that so much of plastic had been stuck in the culvert that the labour deployed is falling short for the work.
 
 “This should complete within a day,” he said.
 
 Greater Noida Authority CEO   told TOI that the matter is being looked into.
 
 DM BN Singh whose office is in front of these offices said that the matter was never brought to his notice but said that it falls under the jurisdiction of the Authority. “It will be looked into,” he said.
 
