GURUGRAM: Over 100 trees were allegedly felled in Anhkeer area near   in the   over the past two days in a blatant violation of the Aravali notification and several   orders.

 On Friday, TOI visited the spot and found that around three acres had been cleared apparently to build a 400-metre-long road to connect the forest area with   road.
 
 The rampant assault on the greenery came to light a day after the Punjab and   high court slapped notice on the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change and the Haryana government, following a petition seeking directions to ban construction in the Aravalis. The Haryana wildlife department has also been asked to file its reply on the issue by August 3.
 
  Local villagers claimed the tree-cutting had been going on since Thursday in the area that lies in a dense forest and boasts tree of various species, including dhau (Anogeissus pendula), dhak (Butea monosperma) and mesquite (Prosopis juliflora), among others. They also claimed trucks filled with malba (construction and demolition waste) had been frequenting the area for the past few days to level the cleared land. Reportedly, a mining pit has also been filled up.
 
 “They are cutting trees while trucks are coming and dumping malba on the plot. There is no forest check-post or police patrolling to prevent these kinds of activities here,” said Sunil Hasrana, an environmentalist from Mangar.
 
 Jitender Bhadana from NGO Save Aravalis alleged the authorities did not take any action despite repeated complaints. “We have made several complaints to the forest office. We also came to know that some forest officials had inspected the area. But now, they have stopped taking our calls, allowing tree-cutting to continue,” he told TOI.
 
 Bhadana further said trees were being chopped to make a kutchcha road first, to connect a few plots to the main road. 
 
 “Land sharks would soon build boundary walls and mark these plots. Then, the road will be concretized. This is a classic example of how encroachment and illegal construction take place in the Aravalis,” he alleged.
 
 
