Two marriages "made in hell" threw up a riveting discussion at the opulent Baithak hall on day one of the Jaipur Literature Festival. The private lives belonged to a man who made Pakistan in 1947 and to a woman who broke Pakistan in 1971 each. While   had scandalised high-society a century ago by marrying a Parsi heiress 24 years his junior,   had tied the knot with a Parsi man as something of a personal statement against her father. Both these political figures came off as refreshingly human during Thursday's session moderated expertly by diplomat TCA Raghavan which saw writers   and Sheela Reddy introduce the subjects of their recent biographies through a set of cinematic vignettes. 

 
 Jinnah was 40 and a rising star in the Indian nationalist movement when he fell for the pretty, vivacious 16-year-old Ruttie Petit, the daughter of his friend, Parsi baronet Sir Dinshaw Petit who was against the match. When she turned 18, they married and were ostracised by Bombay's beau monde. 
 
 Apparently, 16-year-old Ruttie had asked Jinnah: "Why don't we get married?" To which the suave, unbending lawyer had replied: "That seems like a good proposition." "Not many married for love then but some did. Communities were not borders at the time," said Reddy, who wrote 'Mr and Mrs Jinnah: The Marriage That Shook India' using never-before-seen personal letters of Ruttie and her close friends as well as accounts left by contemporaries.
 
 Indira Gandhi, on the other hand, had grown up torn between being her tough father's protege and simple mother's protector, revealed Ghose, whose book on the former PM was prompted by the need to probe the seductive personality of a woman driven by ruthless pursuit of power. "Our founding fathers were tough dads," said Ghose, adding that Pandit   had huge expectations of Indira. For instance, he practiced Yoga and would write letters to her asking why she can't stand on her head. He also pathologically detested illness. So when young Indira failed in Oxford university, it came as a "cataclysmic disappointment" for Nehru. So, in her decision to soon marry Feroze Gandhi, Ghose found defiance.
 
 Interestingly, fashion, it turned out, was political for both Ruttie- known for her staple of sleeveless blouses and see-through saris that would elicit snarky comments from English hostesses- and Indira Gandhi, a sari aficionado who would have each of her womanly yet non-feminine looks mapped out on a chart. Much laughter ensued when Ghose parted with a delectable anecdote about Gandhi. While waving to the public from an open jeep once, Gandhi- who had spotted a woman in an interesting sari- had turned to intelligence chief J P Dutt who was sitting behind her and asked: "What kind of sari is that woman wearing?" Unsure, Dutt had replied, "Maybe a silk sari?" This was promptly punished by the former PM: "That's not a silk sari. It's a handloom sari from Coimbatore, Mr Dutt. What kind of intelligence are you gathering?" 
 
