By Indrajeet Sengupta

 Two events that transpired in the past month brought into focus issues that led me to introspect on my responsibility as a mentor and leader. The first was the ball-tampering controversy involving members of the Australian cricket team, and the second was an interaction with my   at work.
 
 At the start of the South Africa-Australia cricket series, it was a combative   captaining a talented team. However, the events that transpired highlighted how ethics can be forgotten in a desperation to succeed — eventually resulting in significant damage to one’s career. It also taught me valuable lessons on the issues of ethics,   and talent management.
 
 During this time, I met one of my mentees and offered her a new role in the organisation as part of her  . This opportunity was an HR business partnering experience — working in a new business with a new set of leaders unlike all her previous experiences. To my surprise, the opportunity was rejected. 
 
 As we discussed the cause, effect and choices, the reasons behind the rejection slowly unfolded. My mentee’s decision was underlined by negative perceptions of the business. This was coupled with unfounded fears of moving beyond the comfort of her current role. The pause allowed me to rethink choices. I realised there were more options that could be explored for her development, and we were soon able to find an alternative solution — another similarly challenging assignment for my mentee while being able to expand the current role of another team member to take on the original role in question.
 
 Ultimately, the only way we were able to move forward from this situation was by having a crucial conversation that converted both our perspectives into a pool of common meaning. This now brings me to my earlier note on Steve Smith and many common threads from my personal experience.
 
 Accountability of team culture: Steve accepted that as the captain, he was responsible for the team’s culture — and this stands true for every small or big enterprise. As business leaders, we must set the norm to ensure that each individual in a team demonstrates pro-activity, ownership and diligence. Additionally, as a leader, one must also be mindful that collectively, they are dependent on the results and quality of team work.
 
 (Not) Winning at all costs: Ethics in decision-making should take precedence over the desperation to win. Within any organisation, the onus is on the leader to spearhead strategy well within the boundaries of ethics and integrity. They have a critical role to navigate through difficult situations and avoid contaminating team culture.
 
 Engage in difficult dialogue and be inclusive: When stakes are high, opinions are divergent, and emotions run strong — it’s time for a crucial conversation. The ideal practice should be to encourage even younger team members to offer their perspectives, rather than take decisions based on opinion from those in a position of power or authority. Experienced leaders understand that engaging in difficult dialogue with a colleague or employee is a skill that needs to be honed. More often than not, initiating a crucial conversation with a team member can turn a difficulty into an evolving opportunity. Seeking advice and building alliances are important capabilities of effective leaders in creating the right solutions.
 
 ‘You don’t get it!’: When dealing with next-gen talent, this is not an insult. It only means that they want to be heard, coached and mentored to find the experiences they are looking for — and for you to then get out of the way afterwards. The cricket controversy had key takeaways for leaders who deal with millennials — Steve should have played the same role for young Cameron to show him what not to do, and as mentors, we must do the same. In fact, every generation at the workplace comes with the passion of changing the world for good and this needs to be addressed to avoid triggering errors of judgment.
 
 The incident with the Australian cricket team is a distinct case study in the failures of organisational leadership, stewardship and team culture. Servant leadership is a requirement. Leaders today must think multiple times before indulging their worst instincts. Instead, learning how to get it right for your team avoids a loss of credibility and reputation in the long run.
 
 The author is chief HR officer at Johnson & Johnson — India & South Asia. Views are personal
 
 
