Businessman and sitting MLA Ashok Kheny’s last-minute entry into Congress has made his re-election bid from Bidar South assembly constituency trickier.

 The Nandi Infrastructure Corridor Enterprise chief’s business troubles are likely to tail him in this voyage too. Kheny, who won by 16,000-odd votes in 2013 as a Karnataka Makkala Paksha candidate, is facing his old rival Bandeppa Kashempur of JD(S).
 
 
 
 
 
 Kashempur though has an advantage this time – Bahujan Samaj Party, whose candidate had secured over 16,000 votes last time, has tied up with JD(S) for this election. Facing off Kheny and Kashempur is BJP’s Shailendra Kashinath Beldale, who had polled 11,560 votes last time and hopes to cash in on the Lingayat vote this time round too.
 
  
  
 
 Caste and development are both playing out in Bidar South. While Lingayats (60,000) Muslims (42,000) and Dalits (21,000) are present in large numbers, Kurubas, Kolis, Christians, Lambanis and OBCs too have a significant presence here. While Kheny and Beldale are Lingayats, Kashempur is a Kuruba.
 
 By fielding Kheny, Congress is hoping to win Bidar South, which was born post delimitation in 2008, for the first time. Congress candidates were not even among the top three in 2008 and 2013.
 
 Kheny said he had taken all castes and religions together and ensured no communal clash happened during his stint. “I have ensured 24x7 water and electricity supply in villages. The plan to adopt villages is in progress and needs the Centre’s aid,” he said.
 
 JD(S) and BSP workers say their alliance will fetch Kashempur more votes this time. Kashempur says the good work he did earlier as district in-charge minister will stand him in good stead. He also admits that schisms in Congress over ticket distribution will benefit him.
 
 Chandra Singh, son-in-law of former CM Dharam Singh, is said to be sulking over denial of a Congress ticket while Kheny’s brother, Sanjay, has joined JD(S). Suryakanth Kyasa, a resident of Kamathana, says the constituency lacks industries that could generate a good number of jobs.
 
 Karanja irrigation project evacuees, who are yet to get relief, may vent their ire against candidates of major parties. “Kheny spent five years without staying in the constituency. He failed to get compensation for Karanja project evacuees,” said Beldale.
 
 
