BENGALURU: The inability to cope with stress, which eventually leads to  , sees at least one student take her/his life every day in Karnataka. Tamil Nadu topped the chart with most suicide cases followed by  , Telangana and Kerala.

 According to the latest statistics available on student suicides, 540 students from Karnataka took their lives in 2016, at the rate of 1.47 cases per day. In the same year, Tamil Nadu registered 981 cases, at 2.68 cases per day.
 
  
 Andhra Pradesh recorded the least number of cases (295), while Telangana saw 349 and Kerala 340 cases. Experts point out that apart from sociological, psychological and biological reasons that lead to depression, addiction to drugs and alcohol is also seen as a serious concern.
 
 
 “They are all interconnected in some sense. It is social and psychological reasons that push people to addiction. Although they provide temporary escape from lives, such people don’t want to live. All addictive drugs are psychoactive substances that influence the mind and ultimately trigger depression,” Child Rights Trust director Nagasimha G Rao argues.
 
 
 Doctors from Nimhans and other neuropsychiatric hospitals point out that 10% to 15% of people who abuse drugs and alcoholics are prone to suicide. Dr MS Dharmendra, consultant psychiatrist,  , says that timely detection and treatment can prevent such deaths.
 
 
 
 
 Just last week, President Ram Nath Kovind, while expressing concern over youngsters suffering from depression and other mental issues, had urged people to not look at such issues as stigmas, and talk about it. “It is very important to discuss such issues as they are as common as high blood pressure or blood sugar, and not a stigma. Teachers and parents play a big role as they need to be alert and notice any change in behaviour: Becoming withdrawn, disturbances in eating habits, change in the way they communicate, or inability to pursue usual interests and hobbies, and address them appropriately,” Dharmendra said.
 
