Raipur: Playing the OBC card in election year, Congress in   sought to contest the lone   seat on the last date of filing nomination papers. 

 After the BJP finalised the candidature of its national general secretary,   as its Rajya Sabha face, Congress leaders held a meeting late on Sunday night where they decided to field a candidate for the biennial elections and nominated  . Nominees from both the parties filed their nomination papers on Monday.
 
 Pandey reached the assembly with a plastered hand as she fractured her hand after a fall on Sunday night. State BJP president Dharamlal Kaushik, chief minister  , ministers and other party functionaries were among those present when she filed the papers with the returning officer.
 
 Talking about its decision to field an OBC leader for the Rajya Sabha seat, Congress sources said the party felt it necessary to send a strong message to the OBC community that the state BJP had overlooked their claim while taking crucial decisions.
 
 Congress' move also comes at a time when there has been disquiet amongst the OBC Sahu community leaders in the BJP. They say that the community has always stood by BJP and they should have considered a candidate from one of them - particularly when assembly elections are not far away.
 
 BJP has a strength of 49 members in the 90-member assembly. Congress has 39 members and BSP has one member.
 
 Initial indication was that the BJP candidate for the Rajya Sabha seat would get elected unopposed as the opposition may not field any candidate. However, Congress took active steps after BJP's decision to field Saroj Pandey - a former MP and BJP national general secretary.
 
 Earlier, the front runner for the Rajya Sabha seat was state's two time BJP president Dharamlal Kaushik who, according to party sources, had a strong backing of senior BJP leaders. Kaushik had purchased nomination papers on March 8 - much before the party declared its candidate - irking other aspirants and senior party leaders.
 
 Subsequently, Kaushik sought to return the form but was told that form once sold cannot be returned. Chief minister Raman Singh told reporters on Monday that the BJP chief did not purchase the form, but one of his assistants had inadvertently did so.
 
 After Saroj Pandey filed her nomination papers, chief minister Raman Singh welcomed Pandey's nomination to the Rajya Sabha saying that her presence in the upper house would help strongly raise Chhattisgarh's voice in Delhi. The BJP Rajya Sabha nominee said she was grateful to party for giving her such an opportunity which she said would also help to work for the organisation. 
 
 
