BENGALURU: The Karnataka Nataka Academy’s decision to change the design of the trophy for its annual awards to be conferred on theatre personalities on February 24 this year has snowballed into controversy with a few members raising objection. 

 The academy has so far been giving away a memento, comprising a metallic sculpture of Nataraja along with the citation and Rs 25,000. The general body of the academy that met on December 7, however, decided to change the design of the memento. Accordingly, an abstract artwork has been designed. 
 
 “The general opinion is that the Nataraja image is synonymous with dance. Since the academy is about theatre art and we are honouring theatre personalities for their achievements, we thought the memento should be apt,” said J Lokesh, chairman of the Karnataka  .
 
 Lokesh claimed that only one among 18 members opposed the proposal and the academy was going ahead with the change since the resolution was passed with a majority.
 
 “The order has already been placed and art director Sudesh Mahan is sculpting them. The trophies are expected to be ready in 10 days,” said Lokesh.
 
 R Venkataraju, member of the academy, who opposed the proposal at the meeting, said there were other members who shared the same opinion. “They say I was the only to dissent at the meeting, but my dissent has not been formally recorded. This shows that I’m not the only one who had a different opinion. All I’m saying is that there’s no need for changing the design of the trophy which has been there for years,” said Venkataraju.
 
 Not the first time
 
 The design underwent changes on earlier occasions too. When C   was the chairman between 1998 and 2001, the memento was changed into a stone chariot of Hampi. In 1999, it was turned into a metallic cannon, symbolising the heritage of Vijayapura where the award distribution ceremony was held that year. Otherwise, it remained the same by and large since the inception of the academy in 1978. 
 
 This time, 25 theatre personalities are being honoured with the annual awards and veteran Prasanna is being conferred with the life-time achievement award that carries the memento, citation and a cash prize of Rs 50,000. 
 
 Ideological war? 
 
 The controversy has assumed political overtones with the theatre fraternity divided on ideological left and right lines. Some view it as a move to impose the leftist ideology on the academy.
 
 “The move has given way to think that the leftist agenda is being imposed. There’s no need to change Nataraja sculpture which is a universal symbol of dance and drama,” said  , former member of the academy.
 
 Pointing out that even the memento given by the central body,  , has the Nataraja sculpture, he said the state academy’s move has come at a time when ideological headwinds blowing over Karnataka ahead of the assembly polls.
 
 Academy chairman Lokesh, however, has found supporters among theatre artistes who said it’s a progressive move.
 
 “It’s unfortunate that the change is being seen as an agenda. This is not the first time that the memento is being changed, it was the replica of a cannon in 1999. Is an abstract piece worse than the symbol of war?” asked Shashidhar Yadahalli, member of the academy. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
