MUMBAI: A mandatory ingredient missing from an externment   has resulted in   from the   for a 29-year-old   gau rakshak banished from his home district of  . 

 Striking down the order externing Macchindra Shirke, probably the first   to face such action in the state, a division bench of Justice Rajendra Savant and Justice Sarang Kotwal recently held that the externing authority had failed to mention that witnesses were not coming forward in the cases against the accused.
 
 The   had in August last year externed Shirke from Nashik district for a year. The divisional commissioner upheld the   order in September, dismissing Shirke’s appeal, following which he approached the high court in December.
 
 The law requires that the externing authority pen down in the order that he is satisfied after looking at the facts that the presence of the accused is a serious threat to peace and it is preventing witnesses from coming to the aid of the law.
 
 “In the instant case, the only satisfaction which is recorded by the externing authority is that Shirke has committed offences,” the high court bench said. “His acts are causing alarm, harm and danger and if preventive action is not taken, there will be apprehension of serious threat to maintenance of law and order and that his acts were causing enmity between different religions. However, the main requirements of Section 56 (Maharashtra Police Act) are not complied with. There is no satisfaction that the witnesses were not willing to come forward. Therefore in the absence of such satisfaction, the externment order cannot be sustained.”
 
 Shirke says he is an “animal welfare officer”, a member of the Akhil Bharatiya Goseva Sangh and the Mukhya Mantri Mitra Abhiyan, and is associated with the Vishwa Hindu Parishad and the Gauraksha Samiti in Malegaon.
 
 The police had recommended Shirke’s externment on the basis of nine criminal cases lodged against him between 2012 and 2017, from breach of peace and criminal intimidation to dacoity and attempt to murder. Shirke had blamed the “beef lobby” for the cases.
 
 Seeking the quashing of the externment order, Shirke had claimed that he had not been served a notice. The high court rejected that contention but held that the externment order was faulty as the important rule about mentioning witnesses was not adhered to by the comeptent authority.
 
 
