NEW DELHI: The morning chill didn’t dampen spirits as the republic marched out on   to celebrate 69th   on Friday. Over a lakh people came out to watch the show of India’s military might and cultural diversity. With them were the heads of states of 10   countries. 

 Prime Minister Narendra Modi wore a saffron-red-green safa and greeted all the heads of states as they arrived and took their seats on a specially made 100-foot stage. Among the heads of states, Myanmar's State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi reached first, followed by Vietnam prime minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc, Philippines president Rodrigo Duterte, Thai prime minister Gen Prayut Chan-o-cha, Singapore premier Lee Hsien Loong and Brunei Sultan Haji Hassanal Bolkiah. 
 
 India's highest peacetime military decoration, Ashok Chakra, was posthumously awarded to IAF Garud commando Corporal Jyoti Prakash Nirala. The award was received by the soldier’s widow Sushmanand and mother Malti Devi.
 
  
  
 
 Due to the fog, the usual helicopter flypast carrying the national flag was cancelled. However, military personnel carried the flags of 10 Asean nations along with the Asean flag. 
 
 The   was commanded by Lt General Asit Mistry, GOC Hq Delhi area. Behind him came the T-90 tanks, the Brahmos missiles, weapon locating radars, and the marching contingents of various infantry regiments as also the Navy, Air Force and central police forces. 
 
 The marching contingents of the Army included those from Punjab Regiment, Maratha Light Infantry, Dogra Regiment and Ladakh Scouts. For the first time, there was a contingent from the Regiment of Artillery and another from Territorial Army. 
 
 The marching contingent of the Navy had 144 young sailors. Indian Navy also fielded a tableau that showcased aircraft carrier INS Vikrant, which is expected to be inducted by 2020.
 
 Floats showing Indo-Asean co-operation were cheered by the visitors. Twenty three tableaux, including those representing various states and ministries rolled down Rajpath. These had themes from the history of the states
 
 There were 61 guests of the Centre from different tribal groups from various parts of the country. 
 
 Then came the flypast. First came the Rudra formation with three Advanced Light Helicopter Rudra. This was followed by the Hercules formation of three C-130J Super Hercules planes. After them came Netra, an AWACS aircraft. 
 
 
