Vellore/Tiruvannamalai: A 41-year-old man arrested for assaulting and abusing Kalasapakkam MLA V Panneerselvam died at Government Vellore Medical College Hospital (GVMCH) in the early hours of Wednesday. Hospital authorities said the man, Vasanthamani, had multiple health problems.

 Vasanthamani, who was operated on by a team of neurosurgeons for haemorrhage on January 26, had been on ventilator since then. “We don't know the cause of his death. Since it was a medico-legal case, we are carrying out a postmortem,” said a senior doctor in the GVMCH.
 
 However, the death of Vasanthamani triggered a controversy. His relatives alleged that he succumbed to the injuries he suffered at the hands of the Kalasapakkam MLA and his supporters who beat him up badly during a marriage function in Polur town on January 21.
 
 “My brother had been suffering from haemophilia since childhood. But he was healthy. He sustained serious head injuries when the MLA and his supporters assaulted him. We want police to take action against the MLA and others responsible for his death,” said Vasanthamani’s brother, Murthy.
 
 His relatives staged a road blockade opposite Kalasapakam bus stand on Wednesday morning demanding the arrest of the MLA.
 
 Vasanthamani had decorated the venue of a function held at Kalasapakkam on the birth anniversary of AIADMK founder and former Tamil Nadu chief minister M G Ramachandran on January 17. After the programme, he approached the MLA to collect money. The MLA gave him Rs 500 and Rs 6,000 on two occasions. When he approached the MLA again for the balance amount, the MLA gave him Rs 5,000 and allegedly abused him. Upset over this, Vasanthamani went to the MLA’s house on January 21 in an inebriated condition and damaged the windshield of his car. Later, he went to a marriage hall in the town and slippered the MLA and punched him on his face.
 
 Angered over this, the MLA and his supporters beat him up and handed him over to police. He was lodged in the Vellore Central Prison for Men on January 23.
 
 “There was no external injury when he was lodged in the prison. But he complained of discomfort. He passed urine with blood in it. We suspected that he might sustain internal injuries. We admitted him to GH. He was discharged and brought back to the prison in the afternoon of January 25,” said superintendent of central prison G Shanmugha Sundaram.
 
 
