BENGALURU: The ruling   and opposition   are pivoting to wage a battle on new turf: The legacy of Swami Vivekananda.

 Breaking away from the convention of organizing rallies on political and economic issues in the run-up to the assembly polls, the two national parties are ready to make Swami Vivekananda’s birth anniversary on Friday a grand affair, in a bid to win over young voters. Those handling voter-related logistics in both parties peg the number of young voters (below 40 years) at 2.53 crore. Both parties are of the view that Swami Vivekananda’s teachings and socio-political philosophy helps them connect emotionally with youngsters.
 
 In fact, the BJP is organizing a Youth Empowerment Meet on Friday, where suggestions will be sought for the party’s manifesto for the polls. The   (RSS), under the banner of Samartha Bharata Trust, made the first move by trying to rope in 12 lakh college students across the state for its VivekBand Abhiyan, a campaign that will culminate on January 26. The campaign, which aims to spread the message of ‘Be Good, Do Good’ of Vivekananda, has three themes: Nurture a plant. Wear Khadi. Reduce plastic usage.
 
 The Congress, apart from organizing a function in Bengaluru, has directed the   to organize rallies in all major towns as part of Vivekananda’s birth anniversary.
 
 What is more interesting is the manner in which Swami Vivekananda is being used by the leaders to politically outgun each other. Chief minister Siddaramaiah fired the first salvo while countering Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi   for questioning his Hindu credentials.
 
 Dismissing Adityanath as someone who does not possess any qualities of a Hindu monk, Siddaramaiah stated: “The Hindutva we follow is the legacy of Swami Vivekananda. He (Adityanath) should read about Vivekananda’s thoughts and teachings before preaching to us on the matter.”
 
 Sources in the Congress admitted that the party had started speaking about Vivekananda to neutralize the BJP, which succeeds in whipping up the sentiments of the people by speaking about leaders, monks and reformers from the past.
 
 A BJP leader countered: “The Congress knows that youngsters will not vote for it, which is why Siddaramaiah is speaking about the Hindutva legacy of Vivekananda.”
 
 Samartha Bharata trustee and RSS activist Rajesh Padmar said: “We are not speaking about political implications or the context in which who said what. All we say is that Swami Vivekananda’s Hinduism is not separate from real Hinduism. The RSS firmly believes in the concepts of Swami Vivekananda.”
 
 
