NEW DELHI: A meeting at chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s Civil Lines residence over the sealing issue turned into a political battleground on Tuesday even as a BJP delegation, led by its Delhi unit chief  , walked out alleging that the AAP government wanted to “divert attention”.

 Tiwari alleged that his partymen were “heckled and attacked” by AAP members. Kejriwal angrily rejected the allegations as “baseless” and claimed that he “kept on begging the BJP members with folded hands to have a discussion with everyone present, but they insisted on a private meeting and then decided to leave”. The entire sequence of events unfolded between 9.30am and 10am. Amid anti-BJP slogans, members of the delegation could be seen making their way through a crowd of AAP members and volunteers. Responding to BJP’s claims, Kejriwal said: “If any MLA has misbehaved with them, I will throw him out (of AAP).”
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 The CM claimed that if the Centre, LG and BJP so desired, not a single shop would have been sealed in the capital and alleged that the saffron party was doing “politics” over the issue. “Yesterday (Monday), I received a letter from BJP’s general secretary Ravinder Gupta that all seven MPs, MLAs, mayors and the leader of (corporation) Houses want to come and discuss sealing. I felt very happy. I thought it was a good opportunity for all of us to discuss the matter and find some solutions. So, I called our AAP MLAs and councillors too. We also informed LG that after the discussion, we would meet him,” Kejriwal said.
 
 At the press meet on Tuesday, Kejriwal said that he had objected to BJP’s insistence on discussing the issue in private as it was not a personal matter, but involved the people of Delhi and their livelihood. “But they (BJP members) did not agree and decided to leave. It made me very sad,” he said. Tiwari, on the other hand, alleged that Kejriwal and his party members acted like “urban Naxalites”.
 
 BJP also alleged that two women mayors, Preety Aggarwal and Neema Bhagat, were attacked by AAP members. “My assistant, Goldie, and I got injured in the attack. We had gone there to discuss this peacefully, but AAP members heckled us,” Vijender Gupta, the leader of the Opposition, said.
 
 BJP’s Ravinder Gupta registered a police complaint against AAP MLAs Jarnail Singh, Akhilesh Tripathi, Rajesh Rishi, Jitender Tomar and others for attacking party members. Later in the day, Delhi Police confirmed they had registered a case and were investigating. 
 
 According to PTI, six MLAs have been named in the FIR, but TOI couldn’t confirm the development. An officer said that police would procure CCTV footage of the incident.
 
 BJP members claimed that they had sought an appointment with the CM to discuss the sealing issue, but were surprised to see that he had called his MLAs, media and AAP members too. “Our delegation only had 20 members. We walked out as the atmosphere there was not conducive for discussion,” Ramesh Bidhuri, south Delhi MP, said.
 
 When the CM insisted that BJP members address everyone, Tiwari briefly took the mike and said: “We want to know why 351 roads have not been notified so far. Why did you have to ask the court for two years to resolve the issue? What about your promise to regularise unauthorised colonies in Delhi?” Tiwari also demanded that CM call a special session of the assembly to discuss the matter and all MPs, mayors and MLAs be present there.
 
 While Kejriwal maintained that no property had been sealed on the 351 roads that were yet to be notified, Vijender Gupta released a list of 10 properties in Model Town that had been sealed. “It’s a blatant lie (that no sealing has takeb place on the 351 roads). Ten properties were sealed in Model Town-III on January 19 — from Mall Road to Mohan Park School. I have personally visited these properties,” Gupta said. TOI was unable to verify Gupta’s claim from the corporations.
 
 
