GUWAHATI: Anti-migrant pressure group   ( ) on Saturday said an updated   (NRC) is not going to save the indigenous communities from becoming a minority in Assam unless a proper legislation is put in place to safeguard them.

 PVM convener Upamanyu Hazarika said here that identification of foreigners on the basis of 1971 as the cutoff date itself benefits the foreigners. "Firstly, a long stay in Assam availing all the benefits and procuring documents prior to March 25, 1971 gives them an opportunity to be included as citizens. The correctness of the verification process will depend on the number of those excluded from the NRC," he added. 
 
 The first draft of NRC with 1.9 crore names out of 3.29 total applicants was released on the midnight of December 31. Verification of documents for the remaining applicants is on.
 
 Haziranka said after completion of the NRC update process, it has to be now ensured that foreigners leave the state and also put in place a protective legislation, including reservation of land for the indigenous people, on the basis of the 1951 NRC. "However, the biggest challenge is of leadership. After all, a lot depends on the leadership to guide through the process of NRC and ensure safeguards for the indigenous people," he added. 
 
 The PVM has all along been claiming that the indigenous people are going to be a minority by 2040 going by the state's population growth. The PVM blamed the present leaders in the state government for not doing enough to ensure that indigenous people are safeguarded. Hazarika said most leaders, who are in power currently, were once associated with the six-year-long anti-foreigners' movement. 
 
 "Though the present government came to power on the issue of protecting jaati, maati and bheti (identity, land and homeland), we have seen that the interest of indigenous people is being compromised in the last 20 months. The proposal to grant citizenship to religious minorities from Bangladesh is a case in point," said Hazarika. 
 
 
