AHMEDABAD: The recent rape cases in Kathua in Jammu and Kashmir,   in Uttar Pradesh and Surat in   have shaken the conscience of civil society with several organizations intensifying movement for justice to the rape survivors.

 
 
 
  
 On Sunday, people in Dhabgarvad locality of Dariapur area of the city held a march in which girls and other participants protested with placards displaying messages against the brutal rape in Kathua where an 8-year-old girl was raped and murdered after being held in captivity at a temple. Another group of young girls registered protest against Unnao rape case in which a BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar is one of the accused.
 
 A girl protesting at Dariapur said, “Rape is the most heinous crime and raping a girl who was just 8 is beyond the imagination of a human being. The girl in Kathua was raped, tortured and killed just because she belonged to a particular religion. The girl at that age did not even know what a religion is. Now the government should act against the perpetrators of the crime”
 
 Quota agitation leader Hardik Patel-led Patidar Anamat Andolan Samiti (PAAS) has also joined the protest against the recent rape cases and held a candle march in Nikol area of the city.
 
  
 “I will fight for justice to that 8-year-old girl of Kathua who was raped and murdered. I will seek justice for other rape survivors also and fight for them. Whoever behind such heinous crimes must be booked and punished,” said Hardik.
 
 Jayesh Patel, PAAS convener in Ahmedabad, said they will seek justice for the rape victims of Kathua, Unnao and Surat. “If the government does not act swiftly in rape cases, we will hold a nationwide protest shortly,” he said, adding that similar candle march programmes are simultaneously being held in Surat, Junagadh and Rajkot districts. Independent   also posted on social media asking people to join the protest against “the horrors of Kathua, Unnao and Surat” which is being organized by the concerned citizens of Ahmedabad. Members of his outfit   (RDAM) and Muslim community members took out a protest march in Mehsana on Sunday evening. 
 
 On Saturday night also, a group of people living in Udhna and Pandesara areas in Surat city took out a candle march to protest against police inaction in the case of 11-year-old girl who was found murdered after being brutalized and raped.
 
 
