NEW DELHI: Her love for animals is well known. And this time, it’s prompting Union minister   to part with her prized collection of mica paintings, 200 of them, collected over the years, for building an animal hospital in Raipur, Madhya Pradesh. An art collector, Gandhi said she was compelled to take the decision to sell her rare collection of 19th century miniatures on mica because it was the only way her organisation,   ( ), would be able to garner funds to build a hospital for animals in Raipur. 

 
 “Our hospitals are not funded by government and depend wholly on money we raise through donations or sales such as these. “Although it was a difficult decision, I decided to put these paintings on sale so that the proceeds can be used where we need them,” Gandhi said. 
 
 The miniatures, up for sale in sets and as individual pieces, depict 19th century life in India and focus on Hindu gods and goddesses, castes, occupations, religious events, tradespeople, and flora and fauna of the Indian sub-continent. On display at the minister’s 14 Ashoka Road residence in New Delhi, the paintings range from Rs 35,000 a piece to a set of seven paintings for Rs 7.5 lakh.
 
 Maneka Gandhi said, “Considering how few of these are left in the world, we are giving these paintings away for a song. The aim is not to make a profit, but to generate enough for the cause of animals.” The Union minister also said that while she had made an offer to sell the mica paintings to the National Museum, the museum had turned down the offer claiming it stopped acquiring art work since 1996. 
 
 Representing an important period of history in Indian art, micas are a part of the Company School paintings that were commissioned by European patrons and executed by Indian artists. Popular in Murshidabad, Patna, Banaras and erstwhile Trichinopoly, where the transparent and brittle mineral was easily available, mica paintings served as souvenirs of India in Europe. 
 
 Due to the fragility of the material, many did not survive over time and were damaged due to poor handling. Estimates suggest less than 7,000 mica paintings remain in the world and the largest public collection of about 700 mica paintings is in the possession of London’s Victoria and Albert Museum.
 
