LUDHIANA: Joint secretary of Ludhiana District Cricket Association Naresh Marwaha has come out openly against the present working of the association, and said the body would need to review its present working structure, and enrol eminent former players of the district for promotion and betterment of cricket in the district.

 Speaking to The Times of India, Marwaha exclaimed: “I totally stand by the recommendations of the   panel, and had several times asked other respective members of the association to follow the same for the smooth working of cricket in the district, but to no avail. I have even intervened in the ongoing controversy between former cricketers and present working officiating members of the association to resolve their internal issues, but nothing has come out, as some members of the association were ignoring the recommendations of the Lodha panel to enrol former cricketers into their district cricket body. We are all mature cricketers, and should contribute to cricket by following proper voting, but due to lack of coordination among our working members, some ex-cricketers were standing against us and raising their concerns openly in the public.”
 
 Former cricketers, including Inderjeet Malhi, MS Mahal, Karan Goel, and Satish Mangal have alleged that for the past 15 years, the cricket body had not conducted any voting process to enrol young cricketers, which is against the norms of their working. Speaking to TOI, the former cricketers said that following the controversy, they had placed the matter before the high court, which had put an interim stay on the working of the   (which is the prime body of all district cricket associations) until the next hearing on May 24.
 
 A press release by the Ludhiana District Cricket Association mentioned: “No stay has been ordered by the high court on the working of the Ludhiana District Cricket Association. Some people are spreading this news to misguide cricketers and players for their self-interest.” Dismissing the claim made by the Ludhiana district cricket body, GS Bajwa — who is a counsel for the petitioners — said: “We have filed a petition in the high court related to implementation of the Lodha reforms, and inclusion of former cricketers in the Punjab Cricket Association and its affiliated bodies. On our petition, the honourable high court has put an interim stay on the working of the Punjab Cricket Association and its affiliated bodies.”
 
 
