Visakhapatnam: Ordering   has never been easier, even at unearthly hours when it is too late to step out. Thanks to a bevy of apps, one can get food of their choice delivered to their doorstep in no time, that too only for a nominal delivery fee.

 Cashing in on a rising trend of gastronomes preferring to order their food and eat in peace at home instead of taking the trouble to go out to a restaurant, these food delivery apps go the extra mile to ensure that food is delivered piping hot (or ice cold) from a wide range of restaurants in the city, starting from early morning till late night.
 
 Apps like US-based Uber Eats, city-based Night Out Chef, Food Mingo, Meal On Call, Orderwala and Vizag Dabbawala are enjoying a tremendous response from foodies in the city.
 
 The biggest USP of these food delivery apps is the ease with which you can order food at your doorstep. Tourists visiting the city also find it a boon to order from their hotel. Another advantage is being able to order food when one is not in the mood to cook.
 
 Bhavik Rathod, head (India) of Uber Eats, said, “Vizag has been popularised with recent awards like the Swachh City tag. This attracts tourists from across the globe. All these factors play to our advantage. We have tied up with 150 restaurants including the famous Sairam Parlour in the city.”
 
 T Satyannrayana, proprietor of Sai Ram Parlour, a popular restaurant in the city, said the online or app-based food service would be a boon for many restaurants in the city. The restaurants too stand to thrive through these food delivery apps as they can now reach out to a wider consumer base.
 
 Dinesh Kumar, CEO of a Vizag start-up called Night Out Chef, said people are quickly adapting to the apps. “People are now embracing the idea of ordering food through apps. It eliminates the time wasted in traffic, as well as the time spent in waiting at hotels. We   our service for a charge of just Rs 1. We serve up to 2AM. We get 18-20 orders daily,” he said.
 
 V Priyanka, who ordered food through Uber Eats on Wednesday told TOI that she ordered food from A1 Restaurant in Dwarakanagar at around 2.15pm. “I was surprised to see that the food arrived at my doorstep within 20minutes. I didn’t have to step out for food in this hot weather,” Priyanka said.
 
 Some popular dishes in Vizag are Pela Vadiyalu (puffed rice and tapioca), Teepi Avakaya (spicy mango pickle), Mandugula (Halwa), Chepala Pulusu (fish in tangy, spiced tamarind sauce), Bongulo Chicken (Bamboo chicken), Bobbatlu and Punugulu.
 
 
