KOCHI:In a bid to end uncertaintiessurrounding theoperation of   between Fort Kochi and Vypeen, the Kochi corporation has decided to seek the help of Indian Navy. The Kerala Shipp Inland Navigation poration (  whichwasentruste with the operation of the new vessels, stopped the services abruptly on the inaugural day itsel Following prot by opposition cou lors, the local body meeting with officers from Indian Navy, andthelatter pledged the needed technical support.

 Opposition councillors said the decision to seek Navy’s support was not discussed in the council.Though a steering committee meeting was held on Thursday, the matter did not surface in the discussions. “We discussed the eed to resume services withdelay. But the p seekNavy’s assistance did not come up. The local body will require the approval of the council to take such measures. We hope that the mayor would discuss it in the special council meeting scheduled for Saturday,” said Poornima Narayanan, education standing committee chairperson and CPM councillor.
 
 However, the Indian Navy said they are ready to provide technicalsupportfor restarting theservices. “As an agency with expertizein maritimeengineering, we will provide all the supportwe can. Wecan extendsupportfor training theRo-Rocrew, maintenance of the vessel or give manpower for operating the services, if possible. However, Kochi corporation has not told us what exactly they want ustodo,” saidtheIndian Navy’s spokesperson.
 
 Thecorporation authorities held a meeting with KSINC officials after the agency informed the civic body that the services could be resumed after imparting training to the Ro-Ro crew. “The KSINC officials said that they would be bringing experts from Mumbai to provide training to the crew. The date for resuming the services could be finalized only after the experts from Mumbai reach here,” said mayor Soumini Jain.
 
 It is learnt that the local body is exploring options on how to get trained personnel to operate the vessels till the KSINC gets their employees trained. “At no pointdidKSINC tell us that their staff did not havetraining totakethe vessels acrosstheshipping channel. We were kept in the dark,” added the mayor.
 
 A meeting will be held on Saturday morning to analyze the situation and decide on a date to resume operations of Ro-Ro vessels.
 
