 MUMBAI: The civic administration is outsourcing its anti-malaria programme for the first time. The civic health department has floated tenders seeking bids from private agencies that can undertake the anti-malarial drives and other initiatives across all eight wards. "Until now Urban   ( ) workers used to carry out the anti-malarial activities i.e. of conducting door -to-door inspection for mosquitoes breeding, spraying of larvicide as well as routine fogging of residential areas. This year, however, we are outsourcing this process and invited bids," said an official from health department. 

  has been following integrated vector management programme that is designed as per the guidelines given in the National Vector Borne Diseases Control programme wherein the focus is source reduction of vector - anopheles and aedes. 
 
 As per the tender criteria for source reduction of vector borne illness, the concerned agency is required to survey the areas that are prone to mosquito breeding, work out specific coding system to identify breeding spots as well as make separate marking for spots where guppy fish will be released. 
 
 The agency is also required to undertake minor civil work to prevent stagnation of water in open spaces and maintain hatcheries for guppy fishes and conduct special intensive anti-larval activities. "We have worked out a detailed contract in which the concerned agency will have to look into every aspect of mosquito menace. Our role will be to monitor whether all measures are being taken properly or not," said the official.
 
 The move to rope in private agency followed repeated criticism the civic administration has been subjected to with regard to its anti-malaria programmes to contain mosquito menace.
 
 "There was a lot of questions raised about the manner in which administration was conducting anti-malarial drives. Often doubts were raised on the quality of pesticide used and the way fogging was done. Outsourcing the activity may resolve quality issues," said the official.
 
 
