LUCKNOW:   is planning to field at least two Dalit candidates in forthcoming UP legislative council elections to counter the narrative of SPBSP combine labelling it as anti-Dalit.

 At present, out of total 13 BJP MLCs, only one, Laxman Prasad, is from Dalit community.
 
 Informed sources said that among the 11 candidates which BJP can send comfortably to UP Vidhan Parishad in April 26 elections, the party may field two Dalits. A final decision is likely to be taken after BJP national president Amit Shah’s visit to Lucknow on April 10. Already, the names of two senior BJP functionaries from Dalit community — state general secretary Vidyasagar Sonkar and national vice-president of BJP’s SC Morcha, Ramesh Chandra Ratan — have started doing the rounds.
 
 Sonkar, a former MP from Ghazipur, had filed nomination for   polls against SP-BSP combine candidate Bhimrao Ambedkar in addition to Ghaziabad-based businessman, Anil Agarwal, but later withdrew.
 
 Having a strong affiliation with RSS, BJP’s ideological fountain-head, Sonkar had contested from reserved   assembly seat in 2017 elections but lost to SP’s Subhash Pasi by 8,000 votes.
 
 Ramesh Chandra Ratan is a Jatav, the Dalit community to which BSP chief   belongs. Ratan has, in fact, been a BSP functionary for more than 10 years until 2008 when he switched to BJP while raising a banner of revolt against Mayawati, accusing her of being corrupt. Hailing from Hathras, Ratan is also a Supreme Court lawyer.
 
 UP BJP spokesperson   said that the party has been working for the welfare of Dalits through various Central schemes, including Ujjwala (providing free LPG connections), Saubhagya (free electricity connections) and Ayushman (providing health insurance cover of Rs 5 lakh). “The opposition is overlooking the measures taken by BJP government for Dalits for its own political gains,” he said.
 
 BJP recently faced embarrassment when its Dalit MP, Savitri Bai Phule organized a rally in Lucknow claiming that constitutional benefits like reservation were under threat.
 
 The party was also left red faced following a violent Dalit protests across the country against SC order banning automatic arrest and registration of criminal cases under SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.
 
