SHIMLA: A day after an assistant town planner was shot during an anti-encroachment drive in Kasauli town, Himachal Pradesh chief minister   on Wednesday said the divisional commissioner of Shimla would investigate the killing of Shail Bala and submit a report within a fortnight. He said the state government will also submit a status report on the incident in the Supreme Court on Thursday.

 “The inquiry report will be submitted to the government within 15 days,” the chief minister said. He said an ex gratia payment of Rs five lakh will be given to the kin of the deceased and the state government will also bear the expenses of treatment of all those injured.
 
 The state government has come under fire following the brazen killing of the lady officer, with even the Supreme Court pulling it up for not providing adequate security to officials carrying out the demolition drive. The accused guest house owner,  , is still on the run. Police say they have formed teams to arrest him. Asserting that such incidents would not be tolerated, Thakur said that law and order in the state would be maintained at all costs and the Supreme Court orders would be followed in letter and spirit.
 
 Shail Bala was part of the team that had gone to Mando Matkanda to demolish the uanuthorized portion of Narayani Guest House owned by   (70) and her son Vijay (54). Sources said the demolition team was accompanied by police personnel but when Vijay opened fire at the officer, they were at another hotel where the demolition drive was going on.
 
 “It is being stated that when Vijay Singh opened fire at the lady officer, police personnel themselves were running for safety. The incident is the result of administrative, police and government failure,” said senior   leader Ram Lal Thakur.
 
 Former DGP of Himachal Pradesh, I D Bhandari said photographs reveal that police personnel accompanying the demolition team were not adequately armed. “Had the police personnel been properly armed, accused Vijay Singh would not have dared to open the fire,” he said.
 
 Bhandari said when a demolition drive of such magnitude is conducted, issues of law and order are always there. In such situations, a posse of armed police personnel are sent to control the law and order situation, he said. “It seems, district administration and district police did not organize things properly as most of the police personnel were without arms,” he added. Citing rules, he said all police personnel should have been carrying their personnel weapons. He said a constable always carries a gun, while a head constable has a sten gun and sub inspector, a revolver. Blaming district administration and police for the incident, he said they failed to assess and read the situation properly.
 
 Himachal Pradesh DGP S R Mardi did not take the calls despite repeated attempts to reach him.
 
 
