BENGALURU : The probe into illegal mining cases took an interesting turn with the state government directing the Central Bureau of Investigation ( ) to drop cases pertaining to illegal   at six ports.

 An order to this effect was issued by the home department on March 19 this year (TOI has accessed a copy). The move has triggered speculation in political circles as it comes in the backdrop of several sitting MLAs and leaders from Ballari district, the epicentre of the  , joining the Congress ahead of the May 12 assembly polls.
 
 The order withdraws sanction given to the CBI to investigate the movement of ore from the ports at Karwar and New Mangalore Port Trust at   in Karnataka; Ennore and Chennai in Tamil Nadu; and Panaji and Mormugao in Goa. When contacted, a senior home department official said: “It was a decision of the Siddaramaiah cabinet. We have only issued an order to that effect.”
 
 Sources in the bureaucracy said the cabinet decision was in sync with the changing political equations in Ballari region and intended to favour those who switched over to the Congress. Earlier, the state government had, in its November 18, 2013 order, accorded sanction to the CBI to investigate illegal exports from nine ports. In the amended order, only three ports – Krishnapattanam, Kakinada and Vishakapatnam – in Andhra Pradesh will come under the CBI scanner.
 
 The government says the earlier order was based on the Lokayukta report and the sanction is being withdrawn owing to the informal memorandum by the department of commerce and industries requesting to drop the CBI investigation.
 
 Former Lokayukta Justice N Santosh Hegde said: “It is a clear case of the ruling party misusing its power and conspiring to help the accused in the mining case for electoral gains. You cannot miss the irony of the development that the Congress came to power by declaring war against the illegal mining lobby and ended up inducting the accused before the elections and finally withdrawing the investigation itself.” Hegde had been instrumental in exposing the illegal mining scam.
 
 
