Visakhapatnam: As if the removal of erosion-resisting trees at Rushikonda beach was not enough, municipal workers are now setting on fire trash collected from in and around the beach just close to the sea, resulting in the ash flying back to the ocean due to the wind.

 Instead of collecting the   and disposing it in the dumpyard, this shortcut of burning the trash has become a regular practise. In the name of beach development and beautification, more and more deterioration of the popular tourist spot is taking place.
 
 Sports Authority of Andhra Pradesh’s (SAAP) surfing coach Melville Smythe, who frequents the Rushikonda beach, says: “First of all, the littered beach is not regularly cleaned, nor any measures taken to ensure that visitors do not litter the area. And even if the municipal sanitary staff collect the garbage, these uneducated sweepers set the trash on fire close to the beach as an easy way out instead of disposing them in the dumpyard away from the beach. With the wind speed at 20 knots most of the times, this charred trash is flown back to further pollute the sea.”
 
 Pointing to another instance of causing public nuisance at the beach, Smythe added, “Opposite the Water Sports Centre at Rushikonda gate, the tourism department boating people keep urinating near a street lamp post in full public view. This practise must be stopped immediately.”
 
 Even tourists are upset about the situation. R Ranita, a corporate employee, had recently been to the beach with her relatives, who had come down from Odisha. “I used to boast about the city’s cleanliness to my relatives but the sight at the beautiful Rushikonda beach was a major turn-off for all of us,” she said.
 
 Arunima Roy, a first-time visitor to the city, too was taken aback by the litter strewn around the beach. “The morning air gets polluted by burning of garbage on the beach close to the sea. In general, the beach was quite dirty with littered coconut shells and plastic bottles and stray cattle and dogs scattering the garbage further. The experience of visiting the so-called scenic Rushikonda beach, amidst the hills and seas, was quite disappointing,” she said.
 
 It’s not just about burning of garbage, much to the vexation of green lovers, environmentalists and beach-goers, the shady and erosion-resisting palm trees on the beach have been gradually removed in the last couple of years and the place is now almost tree-less. 
 
 All this has been taking place when the AP tourism department, as part of its beach development project, has been working on improving the amenities and beautifying the beaches. Ironically, the lawns and fancy plantation incorporated by the department in some parts of the beach near the food courts are also no longer maintained. While Rs 1.8 crore has been earmarked for the development of Rushikonda beach, this ‘destructive development’, which has been going on for the last two years, threatens to spoil all those constructive efforts.
 
 
