BENGALURU: Police suspect that Raghavendra   may have taken at least 100 doctors in the city for a ride.

 Srinath’s wife Sunitha Acharya, also a director of  , has been named an accused in at least three of the four FIRs registered against the firm by doctors.
 
 They also suspect that Sunitha played a role in the fraud, but she is at large.
 
 Dr Suman Singh, a gynaecologist based in BTM Layout, on Wednesday complained to Mico Layout police, alleging that she was cheated by the firm of Rs 11.34 crore.
 
 Mico Layout police named Srinath and Sunitha Acharya, and arrested wealth manager  .
 
 Dr Singh alleged that the accused met her in December 2013 and convinced her to invest in their firm and promised her good returns. “I invested around Rs 11 crore in my son Rohan and mother RK Singh’s name, only to be cheated of the money,” she said.
 
 Two FIRs were registered on Tuesday by Jayanagar police, accusing Srinath, Sunitha and Murthy of cheating two doctors.
 
 In his complaint to Jayanagar police, Dr DC Mahesh said four members of his family invested Rs 5 crore in the firm since August 2010. “I invested money through Narasimha Murthy. They promised me they would pay returns twice – in January and July every year. They paid us in the initial years but didn’t make any payment this January,” he said.
 
 Dr Brunda Channappa complained that she and her 11 family members invested nearly Rs 4 crore in the firm since January 2014. “The accused failed to pay my returns this January,” she said in her complaint to Jayanagar police.
 
 Dr Balaji R, a resident of  , complained that Srinath, Sutram Suresh and other directors of Vikram Investments had cheated him and his son of Rs 27 lakh.
 
 “I knew LIC agent Sutram Suresh since 2017. He told me that he was attached to Vikram Investments and convinced me to invest Rs 24 lakh in my name and Rs 3 lakh in my son Smaran Raghav’s name. But they cheated us without paying any returns,” he said in his complaint with police. Sadashivanagar police registered a case against Srinath and Suresh, based on his complaint.
 
 
