

 
 
 
 The only party responsible is Congress. We need to understand that   supported the bill in  , it did not seek division on its amendments, nor did it support the amendments proposed by Asaduddin Owaisi. Yet, it suddenly took a divergent stand in Rajya Sabha. The bill had practically only four clauses, which meant talaq-e-biddat is illegal and... you can be jailed for up to three years and fined. You will have to pay subsistence allowance to your wife and custody of minor children. When we say it was non-bailable and cognizable, it means that the accused could get bail by only a competent magistrate and not from police. The magistrate has to ask the accused to confirm whether he has indeed pronounced triple talaq. If the answer is in the negative, the gentleman will be asked to take back his wife and treat her with respect. In case the answer is in the affirmative, he will have to face the consequences. 
 
 
  
 
 Congress took a stand against Muslim women in the Shah Bano case in 1985 and it has adopted the same regressive posture against Saira Bano, who was the petitioner in the latest triple talaq case in the Supreme Court. From Shah Bano to Saira Bano, Congress has failed to provide for gender justice because of politics of appeasement. My second point is that Sonia Gandhi, the supreme leader of Congress, had ample opportunity in 2017-18 to erase the stain Congress attracted when Rajiv Gandhi sacrificed the cause of Muslim women by capitulating to vote-bank politics. Unfortunately, Congress jettisoned the welfare of Muslim women under her charge too. 
 
 
  
 
 This is the government of  , not of Rajiv Gandhi. Our commitment to gender justice and finding a justice to the Muslim women is total. Beti Bachao, Sukanya Samridhi Yojna along with whole lot of other initiatives like giving rights to women pilots to fly fighter planes, have been taken by our government. You will recall that an all-women contingent led the Republic Day Parade the year when then United States President Barack Obama came as chief guest. 
 
 
 We did try. We met Ghulam Nabi Azad and other leaders of Congress. There were consultations with Leader of House Arun Jaitley. I went with Ananth Kumar and Vijay Goel to meet Azad. But how could there be any understanding if you, as a condition of support, ask for changes which can kill the very soul of the bill. In Shah Bano case... the SC had asked that the poor old woman be given just Rs 125 per month, but Rajiv Gandhi used his majority to subvert that order. They had to pay a heavy price. 
 
 
  
 
 The demand is just a ruse to sabotage. It is not such a complicated matter. 
 
 
  
 
 This demand was totally flawed as it suggests you are incentivising triple talaq. In the Lok Sabha, Congress MP Sushmita Dev suggested so, but imagine a triple talaq giver getting rid of his wife and asking her to approach the ‘sarkar’ (government) for maintenance. Second, India is run by the Constitution and there has to be equality before law. How can the government form corpus for members of one community women and deny to others.
 
 
  
 
