GHAZIABAD: They scripted a robbery to claim   to save their dwindling business, but luck ran out for this city-based couple who were arrested on Saturday from their home in Nehru Nagar. 

 They had filed a false complaint about a robbery, claiming garments worth Rs 50 lakh had been stolen from their boutique some 10 days back.
 
 Archana Singh and her husband Prem Veer, both in their late 40s, had been running a boutique for the past four years near their home. Lately, they were incurring losses in their business.
 
 They had insured their business with the   for Rs 45 lakh, and to claim this amount they hatched a plan to fake a robbery at their shop. However, their plan was busted when police detained some suspects, whose images were captured on CCTV cameras installed near the shop, and interrogated them. They revealed the names of the couple and their maternal uncle.
 
 The ‘suspects’ turned out to be a daily wage labourer and a pick-up vehicle driver who were hired by the couple’s uncle to transfer the garments, police said.
 
 On January 10, Archana lodged a robbery complaint at Sihani Gate police station. She said garments worth Rs 50 lakh were stolen from her boutique. An FIR of theft and trespass was registered.
 
 SP (City) Akash Tomar said, “During the investigation, we came to know that the couple had got done insurance for the shop and also found that their business was not doing well. They had married off their daughter in November 2017 for which they spent a lot of money. We checked footage from CCTV cameras installed in nearby areas and detained a few persons who revealed the owners’ names.”
 
 “The couple had planned meticulously and removed the CCTV cameras from the shop 15-20 days before executing the plan. They involved their maternal uncle Gajpal in the plan, and the trio decided to hide the garments at his residence in Simbhaoli, Hapur. Gajpal had previously been in prison in connection with the murder of his wife. He is now missing,” said CO II (City) Atish Kumar Singh.
 
 Gajpal brought along two persons from his village telling them that some things needed to be moved from his nephew’s shop to another place. On the night of January 9, Gajpal and Prem Veer along with the two persons moved the garments kept in cloth bags inside the shop. Knowing that their movement might get captured on the nearby CCTVs, Gajpal and Prem Veer covered their faces with cloth. When the footage was seen by the police, their claim of theft was substantiated at first, but further inquiries nailed their lie, said the SP.
 
 
