BHOPAL: A five-year-old boy was rescued by the Child Line and   police on Sunday after they learnt that the woman who adopted her from Uttrakhand under some strange belief had been scrubbing his body with a black stone hoping to make him look fair.

 Child line team rescued the boy after a call from the daughter of woman’s elder sister, who could not see the child being subject to torture anymore, said police.
 
 Complainant Shobna Sharma, alleged that accused   Tiwari, a government school teacher in Nishatpura area, adopted the child from Uttrakhand one and a half years ago from Matruchhaya. Her husband is a contractual employee in a private hospital.
 
 She claimed, “From the day child was brought to  , her aunt was unhappy with the boy’s complexion and she started treating him with various things. A year ago, after someone suggested her a treatment through a stone, she started scrubbing the child’s body with black stone. This left the kid badly bruised with scars and injuries on his wrist, shoulder, back and legs.”
 
 After the kid was rescued by Child Line and Nishatpura police on Sunday, he was rushed to Hamidia hospital where he was treated and later sent to Child Line centre for further inquiry. The child will be produced before the child welfare commission members on Monday.
 
 Complainant Shobna alleged that as per rules, Matruchhaya should have conducted follow ups after the adoption, but they did not do so.
 
 She added, “I tried to stop Sudha several times, but when she did not stop harassing and torturing the kid, I had no other option except seeking help from Child Line and police.”
 
 When TOI met the kid, he said, “My mother used to take me to the school where she teaches. I don’t go to school for studies.”
 
 Archana Sahay, Child Line director said, “When the child was rescued from his home, he was in a very bad shape. There were injury marks all over his body. Child was taken to hospital for treatment. He is now out of danger”
 
 Amita Jain, joint secretary, Matruchhaya, and member of Bal Ayog, on being asked about the child said, “We conducted follow ups through telephone. We called Sudha and inquired about the child’s health, but we were not told about any the physical violence against him. We were soon going to conduct on field follow up too.”
 
 Madhya Pradesh Commission for Protection of Child Rights (MPCPCR) chairman Raghvendra Sharma said, “I am unaware about the issue, but I will take an action in the case.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
