Chennai: As India readies itself to drive in electric mobility, what does the average Indian commuter think about e-vehicles?  A good 75% of Indian commuters travel less than 1,000 km a month (or roughly less than 35 km a day) and will therefore not be too concerned with charge range. What customers are looking for is affordability, quality, looks and ease of charging in the e-vehicle eco system, a survey said. The survey — conducted among 650 respondents in 20 cities including metros as well as Tier-1, Tier-2, and Tier-3 cities — found that most people travel simply from home to office and that the use of fleet cabs has reduced the usage of personal vehicles substantially, particularly in big cities. And that’s where most of the e-vehicle penetration is expected. According to the survey, conducted by Feedback Consulting, nearly 75% of travel by car is for point-to-point travel, the survey showed. Of these, 31% is to travel between home and office while 44% is for family purposes. Multi-route travel was 25%, of which 9% was during weekend, 9% was for outstation travel and 7% was for other purposes.  Given that the biggest concern about e-vehicles is charge range, the issue might not be as big a hindrance as expected.  “Even though, there is a talk of range of EVs being limited, the actual usage of personal cars in most cases is limited across the country in the range of 500-700kms / month,” said the survey.  “This indicates that a major consumer education program is needed to dispel range anxieties and it may not actually be a “real” problem for them to deal with in the long run.” When it comes to alternative fuels, the big road block is ease of refueling. 78% of CNG car users said they have to spend upto 30 minutes to refill their cars every day which has to be done during peak hours.  A good 78% of these CNG car users said they would prefer a re-charging solution in the comfort of their homes at night.  “One crucial advantage which the EVs have over other types of ICE Vehicles is that the fuel source here (electricity) is available at their home and one need not always have to go out and get it from a public fuel retailing center,” said the survey. The survey also found travel preference of commuters changing from personal cars to fleet cars. In metros, 70% respondents said their use of fleet cars or cabs increased in last 1.5 years, while 20% said it remained the same. In Tier 1 cities, the share of such respondents was 50% and 35%, respectively. The survey also predicted the mushrooming of public charging infrastructure with utilities, large builders and developers and local cluster networks like cable businesses coming up to cater to recharging needs. 