From gangsters to highway robbers and kidnappers, the UT police have caught them all. But capturing a   in 2010 was a rare thrill.

 On July 10, 2010, police received a secret input about a foreign spy in the city and laid a trap for him near   on the Sector 44 road. Their target was Kashif Ali, who had been living as Pawan Kumar in Sector 44 for twoyears-and-a-half. “Kashif—son of Gulam Sarvar of Gali Number 8, Zulfkar Colony, near Naved Karyana Store, Warispur, Balata colony police station, in Faislabad district of Pakistani Punjabwas caught before he could do any major damage,” said inspector Amanjot.
  
 
 
 Police were told that Kashif might have crucial data on Indian Army’s movement, deployment, and bases, including Chandimandirbased Western Command headquarters and the local Air Force Station. First-information report (FIR) 227 lodged that day suggests that around 3.45pm near the temple, a blue Maruti 800 car crossed the roundabout of Sectors 33, 34, 44, and 45, and approached the trap. Pulled over and quizzed, the driver identified himself as Pawan Kumar, son of Dharampal of Pitampura, New Delhi, to prove which, he took out his driver’s licence and a few other documents.
 
 When his reason for visiting Chandigarh failed to convince the cops, they searched his car and found a camera and some maps of the local airbase in the glove box.
 
 
 
 
 Spies are trained to fool cops. “It was very difficult to get any clue out of him about his nationality and who sent him to spy on India,” said inspector Amanjot. The hand-drawn route maps of the Chandimandir airbase, photographs of the airport, and details of the Army’s location betrayed him, however. Then he made an error that was enough to prove him a spy in the court. He requested court for permission to call home, and this call was traced to Pakistan.
 
 
 This left no doubt that he belonged to the hostile neighbouring country. Intense interrogation broke him and he revealed to the cops that Pakistan had sent him over to gather sensitive military data. He had managed to get a fake mark-sheet of Class X, which he used to get Indian IDs, including passport. His leads about a spy ring spread across Punjab led to four arrests.
 
 
 Kashif was charged under Sections 3 (spying), 5 (wrongful communication), 6 (unauthorised use of uniform, falsification of reports, forgery, personation and false documents) of the Official Secrets Act and Section 14 of the Foreigner’s Act. The other charges were under Sections 419 (cheating by personation), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for the purpose of cheating), 471 (using a forged document as genuine) and 120B (punishment for criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).
 
 
 The court convicted him and sent him to prison. A day after his arrest,   of Sector 66, Mohali, Gurpinder Singh of Sector 47, and Jagdish Kumar of Phase IV, Mohali, were arrested for providing Kashif with a fake PAN (permanent account number) card, a voter’s identity card, and a passport.
 
 
 
 
 
 In the final arguments of the case before a chief judicial magistrate in 2014, Kashif ’s defence counsel claimed that there were many loose ends in the case. He asked police why they had never arrested  , previous owner of Kashif ’s blue Maruti. To this, deputy superintendent of police (DSP)   had replied that it was because Hakum was not a suspect but a witness. The defence also argued that police had not revealed their source of information about the crucial documents. Inspector Amanjot submitted that revealing any of this information could jeopardise the country’s security.
 
 
 Kashif was working as a property dealer in Chandigarh and flirting with a lot of city women on the pretext of marriage. His career as James Bond was short-lived.
 
