THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Acclaimed neurosurgeon Dr  , regarded as the father of modern day neurosurgery in Kerala, passed away on Saturday in Chennai. He was 82.

 
 His elder son Dr   said Sambasivan had been staying with his younger son in Chennai while convalescing from a hip injury that afflicted him some six months ago. He was not suffering from any other serious ailment. He developed uneasiness and breathing difficulty in the morning and by the time he was taken to a hospital, he was declared brought dead, close family members said.
 
 His body is expected to be brought to Thiruvananthapuram by Saturday night and would be kept at his residence at Tagore Nagar for the public to pay homage. He would be cremated at Karamana Brahmana Samooha Smasanam on Sunday.
 
 Sambasivan was a multifaceted personality, known for his deep knowledge and interest in Sanskrit and scriptures. He had avery remarkable and illustrious academic career too. He received the award for the best outgoing student in MBBS (with six gold medals) and was the only person to have passed out neurosurgery MD with distinction from the  , Vellore.
 
 He has received many laurels during his illustrious career spanning over four decades, including the state award for best doctor. He retired as the vice principal of the Medical College, Thiruvananthapuram, where he was also the director and professor of neurosurgery.
 
 Sambasivan was the first to start a neurosurgery department and a PG training programme in Kerala. An erudite Vedic scholar, he had mastered ancient scriptures and four Vedas, in addition to being a tantric priest to various temples in Kerala, notable among them the Shiva temple in Karamana.
 
 An excellent orator, he was known for his ability to keep any audience in rapt attention. He has made several contributions to neuroscience, including in the area of aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage, and introduced a novel approach to tumours in posterior third ventricular region.
 
 He leaves behind wife Gomathy Sambasivan and children Dr Mahesh Sambasivan, Kumar Sambasivan and Sreevidhya.
 
 
