JAIPUR: Economic growth has no meaning if it is not inclusive and this is where the role of micro, small, medium enterprises (MSMEs) achieves significance, said state   minister   here on Saturday. 

 Addressing the industrialists in the state at an event on MSMEs organized by CII-Rajasthan and Industries department, Shekhawat said that SMEs have played a bigger role in countries like Japan, China and Thailand. "Seventy percent of people engaged are in the SME sector in Japan. SMEs in China contribute 60% to the country's total exports. That's why it's important for us to promote SMEs which have large capacity to generate jobs," said Shekhawat.
 
 He also urged the industry not to depend on the government incentives to be competitive. "If you cannot be competitive by your own efforts, the government incentives will not make you so," he told the business community.
 
 Even though the segment contributes 37% to India's GDP and 43% to the country's exports, it is still facing headwinds in getting access to finance despite having lower levels of NPAs. As per a study released last week by SIDBI and  , among the top 10 states, MSMEs in Rajasthan have the lowest NPA rate of 3.5%, which account for 4.3% of banking exposure to MSMEs.
 
 Rajasthan's industry is dominated by MSME units and the state government has adopted a multipronged approach to remove hurdles for the growth of the sector. Besides throwing light on the recent initiatives taken by the industries department to boost the sector, Rajeeva Swarup, additional chief secretary, Industries, said that Rajasthan enjoys a competitive advantage over other states because of the availability of land.
 
 Swarup cited a   report which considers the industrials zones developed by RIICO and the easy availability of land in the state for the industry as advantages that can swing the interest of the investors in favour of the state.
 
 In a bid to help the SMEs resolve disputes with their customers and get the payments in time, the state MSME facilitation council has been holding meeting regularly and resolved 400 such cases. Kunji Lal Meena, commissioner industries said there are still 400 more cases and which will be resolved in 3-4 month which will help the MSMEs get back their money from their customers. 
 
 
