According to an estimate by the Haryana Sports Department, Gurgaon has about 200 competitive swimmers and several dozen triathletes. In fact, the city accounts for almost one-third of all competitive swimmers in the state. It is quite startling then that the city does not have a single Olympic-sized public swimming pool, apart from a few run by private players. But that is set to change this year. The   is giving the city its first public Olympic-sized pool. That will mean swimmers will no longer have to travel to Delhi or other parts of   for training. An Olympic-sized pool is 50m long and 25m wideand is divided into ten lanes. Ideally, it also has water with temperature regulated to a range between 25°C and 28°C. So far, the pools in Gurgaon are much smaller, including the one existing pool used by the sports department in Nehru Stadium. Parasram, Gurgaon's District Sports Officer, says, "We have space in   and Nehru Stadium. A company has shown interest in taking up the project as part of their CSR initiative. We will finalise the place this week and start work by the end of the month itself." The department is also working on modalities to make the pool heated so that it works round the year. In addition, an indoor hall will also be built for divers along with the pool.

  
  
 
  In the past, swimmers and triathletes in Gurgaon have complained that in the absence of a pool like that, they often have to travel to Delhi for their training, particularly in winters, when the existing public pools shut down as they are not heated. While triathletes use the pools in residential societies and others run by private players, national-level swimmers can't opt for that as it is too expensive. Ratika, a city-based swimmer says, "Most swimmers in Gurgaon start their training in the smaller pools here but after they reach a certain level, they start travelling to   or   in Delhi as only those places have Olympic-sized inexpensive pools. It will be a big relief if Gurgaon can have its own decent swimming pool."
 
 
  
 
 
