VADODARA: Twenty four days after a non-resident Indian (NRI) woman lost her gold and diamond jewellery worth Rs 14 lakhs, the railway police has cracked the case and arrested two persons. The government railway police (GRP) arrested the duo at Vadodara railway station on Sunday evening when the duo was on its way to Surat. Jewellery worth Rs 10.50 lakh was also recovered from them. 

 The police said that the arrested duo — Sanjeev Saansi, Rahul Valmiki— used to steal valuables and ornaments from train passengers. Their two other accomplices Vedpal and Virendra are still absconding. All four accused are native of Haryana.
 
 On February 3, Sanjeev and Rahul and their two other accomplices targeted  , a resident of US and her sister when they were travelling in AC coach of  . The women were to get down at Vadodara railway station. 
 
 “Two of the accused picked up the bags of these women under the pretext of helping them. When the complainant’s attention was diverted, two other members of the gang picked up a purse full of gold and diamond ornaments, and fled from the spot,”  , SP, western railway said. 
 
 After Tolani lodged a complaint, the police received a tip-off that some suspects from Haryana may have committed the crime. After verifying CCTV footages, the cops got identity of one of the accused following which a team went to Haryana. “The team learnt that the gang had committed a big theft and it was to visit Surat to sell it,” Singhal added.
 
 Railway LCB police inspector,   received a tip-off that two members of the gang were to travel to Surat from Vadodara railway station following which the cops kept a watch at the railway station. Sanjeev and Rahul were spotted at the railway station with two bags. When the police arrested them, they admitted to have committed the theft. The duo had sold off some of the jewellery and paid some money to their accomplices.
 
 The duo told the cops that they were not getting good price for the jewellery in Haryana so they decided to sell off the stolen valuables at Surat. 
 
 
