NEW DELHI: The 2017 edition of the Indian Premier League (IPL) was shambolic for  , and a last place finish on the points table left them with plenty to introspect on. As   begin its   campaign against Kolkata Knight Riders at Eden Gardens on Sunday, South African batsman   believes the changes made to the squad make for an exciting package that could end the franchise’s title-less run. 

 
 
 
 
 
 “This may be the 11th edition of the Indian Premier League, and my eighth campaign with RCB, but the general level of anticipation already seems greater than ever. Each year, the   feels bigger and brighter… it is a global sporting phenomenon,” wrote the 34-year-old in today’s TOI. “The RCB class of 2018 is exciting, a balance of youth and experience, fresh and resolved to delight our supporters around the country, to realise our potential on the field and, hopefully, to take the trophy.”
 
 
 
 When RCB last played KKR at Eden Gardens in 2017, it was a shocking defeat. Set a target of 132, RCB were simply annihilated - bowled out for 49 in 9.4 overs which is the lowest total in the IPL. 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 De Villiers was hopeful of a strong start to  , and shared a bit of the background excitement that he felt and noticed when he touched down in India recently. 
 
 “It’s a tough start. Nobody in our organisation needs reminding we were bowled out for 49 at Eden Gardens last year, but we’re looking forward, not back… looking to attack with both bat and ball, to play with energy, flair and courage,” he wrote. 
 
 “There was excitement and nerves when I reached my hotel room, and saw everything had been delivered and neatly laid out: every part of the new RCB kit looks fantastic and my MRF bats, gloves and pads are exceptional. I may have celebrated my 34th birthday a few weeks ago, but it is still such a huge privilege for me to play cricket in India; the enthusiasm, and the excitement and the nerves are all contagious. Let’s get going. Let’s get stuck in.
 
 “Calm down, I told myself. You’re meant to be a senior player. You can’t run around like a wide-eyed youngster, barely able to control his emotions,” wrote de Villiers, is is RCB’s third-highest run-getter with 2833 from 93 innings. “So I walked down to the team room, where the RCB players were gathering to discuss our strategy for tomorrow’s match, our plans for a KKR side now coached by Jacques Kallis, the man who has done so much to help me throughout my career. Stay calm. Stay cool. Then I saw the beaming face of our captain. “Howzit, Virat. It’s great to see you.” The excitement and nerves start all over again. Let’s get this party started.”
 
 
