TRICHY: An inscribed stone slab detailing the construction of canals for irrigation in the 13th century CE during the reign of Chola ruler Rajendrachola III has been unearthed near Trichy. 

 The slab was unearthed last month while clearing an unused pond by the local people of Kottarappatti that comes under Paththalappettai union near Kiliyur. However, as they did not know its value, they left it lying there. K Balakrishnan, principal, Bharathi Matriculation Higher Secondary School Trichy, stumbled upon the stone slab last week during one of his visits to the village for bird watching.
 
 On Balakrishnan’s request, R Kalaikkovan, director of Dr M   along with M Nalini, head of the department of history, Seethalakshmi Ramaswami College and pulavar P Tamilakan visited the village to decipher the inscription.
 
 Finding an inscription from the Cholan era in central region isn’t rare but finidng inscriptions from the period of Rajendrachola III’s reign, who was the last king of Chola dynasty, are rare, said experts.
 
 “Discovery of this inscription strengthens the theory that Chola hegemony continued to exist in Trichy district in spite of the Hoysala inroads,” said Kalaikkovan.
 
 Engraved in Tamil, the inscription has 10 lines on the slab which measures 48 cm in breadth and 69 cm in height and was planted near a barren land, he added.
 
 Kalaikkovan said, “The epigraph registers the digging of an irrigation channel by  , one of the prime government officials of Rajendrachola III during the third regnal year of the king at the eastern division of Chenthamaraikkanna Nallur that was included under  . It says that the channel was flowing towards the north of the village irrigating the surrounding lands.”
 
 The presiding deity of the Perumal temple also known as Periyasrikoyil at Thiruvellarai is mentioned in inscriptions as  .
 
 “Many villages on either side of the river   were named after this deity in the Chola period and are mentioned in the records as Chenthamaraikkanna Nallur. References are found at Thiruppainnili and Srirangam,” he said adding that it is positive that the Chenthamaraikkanna Nallur of Karanapparru was also one such village.
 
 
