NEW DELHI: If you swear by  , you are mostly likely to be in a fix regarding the announcement on long term capital gains on sale of equity shares or equity mutual funds made by finance minister   in Budget 2018. The   proposes 10%   on long term capital gains ( ) over Rs 1 lakh. Till now, any long-term gains made on equity shares or any equity mutual fund units were exempt from tax. 
 
 
 So, what does the latest budget announcement mean for your investment strategy? Do you need to rejig your existing asset allocation? According to experts, investors shouldn’t rush to dispose of the gains made on equities. “Investors must understand that any long-term profit from equities made till now is grandfathered and therefore there is no need to sell off your gains. Also, going forward, tax is levied only on long-term gains made in excess of Rs 1 lakh only. Therefore, one should weigh the returns equities generate over the long-term and take an informed decision," says Preeti Sharma, director tax, EY India. 
  
 Concurs Lakshmi Iyer, chief investment officer, debt & head products, Kotak Asset Management, “Retail investors wanting to participate in the India growth story and wanting to create wealth over long term should maintain a status quo. Levy of LTCG on equity assets has been done in a very fair manner with grandfathering of all gains upto Jan 31, 2018. Hence retail investors should stick to their asset allocation and continue to ride the markets over long term.”
 
 The grandfathering clause will help you take benefit of tax exemption on appreciation in the value of your shares or equity mutual fund units from the date of purchase up to January 31, 2018.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 When India abolished the tax on long-term capital gain on equities 13 years back, it became one of the most liberal markets in the world. However, to make up the loss it instead imposed a security transaction tax (STT). The decision benefited domestic investors who were at great disadvantage vis-a-vis Mauritius investors and enjoy exemption on capital gain on transfer of Indian securities as per treaty signed between India and Mauritius in 1992. Currently, there are only five countries that don’t tax capital gains on equities.
  
  
  
 
