BENGALURU: The slow pace of  ,  , has become a thorn in the side of residents, pedestrians and students of the nearby Bethany High School. 

 Frustrated with the situation, the school’s principal Robert Khin wrote to BBMP commissioner N Manjunath Prasad on Thursday, saying: “Due to the high level of pollution caused by the road work, our students between the ages of 3 and 18 years have been falling ill consistently.” He has requested the commissioner to “ensure a speedy conclusion to the work, to minimise the inconvenience and disturbance caused to the students and the community”.
 
 Koramangala 20th Main is one of the 29 stretches which have been taken up for whitetopping. Work started in the first week of December and doesn’t seem to be anywhere near completion, with pavements remaining dug up.
 
 Stating that the ongoing work was resulting in ‘total anarchy’, Akash Ryall, director,  , said: “The work started without any warning, hence we were unable to take precautionary measures. Dust is causing breathing problems, asthma and wheezing among our students. Since the school is located directly on the road, there is constant noise pollution during class hours. We celebrated Grandparents’ Day recently, and some of the senior citizens almost fell along the side of the road.”
 
 Apart from the dust and noise, the work has also resulted in traffic snarls along the stretch. Since traffic is permitted only on one side of the road, it has turned into a thoroughfare, with buses, vans and scooters jostling for space. 
 
 “Since half of the road has been blocked, all traffic is on the same side, which is leading to congestion. Also, since the pavements have been dug up, there is no place for pedestrians,” said John, a resident of Koramangala 5th Block. 
 
 Sandhya M, whose six-year-old daughter is a student of Bethany, said, “Picking up my daughter has become a tough task. Earlier, I used to bring my scooter, but since the road is in such a bad condition, I have started walking to the school.”
 
 A senior BBMP official from the project division said that the 1.5km-whitetopping work had been completed. “Only the pavement work is left. This will take another month and a half as the shifting of utilities will take some time. Only some work remains on one side of the road, and once that is completed, we will speak to traffic police about throwing the road open to traffic”.
 
 
 
 
 Whitetopping is covering the existing bituminous pavement with cement concrete. The purpose is to increase the load-carrying capacity of the existing carriageway by making it sturdy and long-lasting. The thickness of the concrete layer varies between 150mm and 200mm, and the roads are expected to last 20-30 years.
 
 
 
 Under the first phase of the Rs 723.71 crore project, the Palike has taken up   along Outer Ring Road (Hennur Road to KR Puram), Tumakuru Road (near  ), West of Chord Road, Koramangala 20th Main, Mysuru Road and Hosur Road. 
 
 
