Udaipur: None of them have ever been to catering schools or professionally mentored. But 25 years of cooking have helped these men command respect for their culinary skills from far and wide. Their services are so much in demand that advance bookings are done prior to events and seasons. Not only Udaipur, these men are accepting catering assignments in Gujarat, Delhi, Maharashtra and even far off states.

 Jhadol, a tehsil situated some 80 kilometres from the district headquarters is gaining reputation as the 'Halwai' hub as 60 per cent of the professional cooks in Udaipur hail from the block. Of the 250 members of the Udaipur Halwai and Caterers Vikas Association, over 150 are from   alone. People from Magwas, Kolyari, Ogana, Badrana, Gogla, Bicchiwada and surrounding villages in Jhadol block are earning repute for the delicacies they serve specially in wedding feasts.
 
 “Surprisingly, Jhadol people had nothing to do with the cooking business until early 90’s when a group of 60-70 youths came to Udaipur for college education. We tried part time jobs to meet our expenses and were roped in by catering contractors who introduced us to the art of cooking,” says Banshilal Pujari, a 45-year old commerce graduate.
 
 “As youngsters we learned the job. We began our journey by cutting vegetables, stoking the fire and stirring the dishes. It takes about 10 years to graduate to the position of a team leader or become capable to form your own team,” Banshilal says. Earlier, chefs from Mavli block held the reins of the trade in their hand but gradually Jhadol youths for their efficiency and perseverance began carving out a niche for themselves. "Though there are number of dishes we specialise in but in winters, 'GondPak', Malai Gevar' and 'Dry fruit Halva' are largely sought for. In summers Mango Afsana and Shrikhand are quite popular,” he adds.
 
 Most of the head cooks are middle-aged men, however, with the ever changing taste and growing demand for new dishes, these men even spend time on internet. surfing recipes to create special varieties from different parts of the world. Most of the Jhadol 'head cooks-cum-contractors' live in Mallah Talai area in Udaipur where they have large halls to accommodate their workers/helpers’ team and keep their utensil stock.
 
 Cooking isn’t a cakewalk
 
 According to persons in the cooking and catering business, this is a highly laborious field and sometimes it requires the team to work for up to 20 hours at a stretch. “Once committed, we cannot step back because people are not only giving us money but their trust too which cannot be breached. We have to skip family functions, many times fail to attend funerals of relatives due to extreme work pressure but this is part and parcel of our profession,” Tekchand, another chef from Jhadol claims. Depending on the items in the menu, to the quality of utensils, presentations and mannerisms of staff deputed at food counters, cost varies from Rs 125 to Rs 1,500 or even more per plate. “Twenty-five items in any function is a common trend now. This includes four varieties of curries, roti, rice and desserts. Then there is fast food, Chinese and South Indian dish counters, coffee and ice-cream huts.” informs Suresh Suthar, another youth in the business. Concentration and dedication are other essential qualities for people in cooking because smallest of mistakes wastes hours of labour.
 
 Effort to build a cook-training centre
 
 Catering schools are quite costly and specially people from villages cannot afford to enrol in such institutions. “However, there is abundant scope in the cooking and catering industry for youths and for the benefit of younger generation, specially tribal rural youths from remote areas, we are trying to build a training school in Udaipur city,” Banshilal said. The association has approached the UIT and the home minister for allotment of 2-4 bighas of land within the city periphery for a building where they aim to develop all modern cooking amenities available in professional institutions. The members have even approached famous chef Sanjeev Kapoor who suggested to move step by step towards realisation of their dreams.
 
 
