MUMBAI: While   students are rejoicing the Central Board of Secondary Education decision to not hold the mathematics re-examination in Mumbai, the April 25 date for the   economics   has upset candidates who will be in the midst of preparing for their competitive exams at that time. 

 A group of parents of Class X students met in   on Friday evening to plan a protest against the decision to conduct a re-exam. During the meeting, though, they heard of the CBSE’s decision to not hold a re-test outside of Delhi and Haryana. The group, along with students, then celebrated by cutting a cake. “We had written to the MHRD (ministry of human resource development) and were also planning a protest because our students had not indulged in any malpractice. We are extremely relieved,” said Manish Ghelani, a Class X student’s father. 
 
 Families are also relieved that they will not have to alter their already paid-for vacation plans. “We were supposed to leave for Singapore on April 13, which we can now continue with,” said Sridhar Mani, a parent.
 
 Class XII students, on the other hand, have to once again study for economics while juggling the preparation schedule for entrance exams. “It’s highly inconvenient as there are entrances (BBA, IPM and so on) which happen later, in the month of May. Also, the coaching classes for preparations start, so what should we focus on—the board exam or entrance tests? Besides, I had flight tickets booked for April 21. Who is going to pay for these?” said Anjali Kumar, a commerce student from R N Podar School, Santacruz.
 
 “My entrance for chartered accountancy is scheduled for June and preparation classes begin now. The test will be held in the middle of all that preparation,” said Tanay Mundra, a Class XII commerce student.
 
 Students from the science stream who had opted for economics are likewise worried. 
 
 “All the competitive exams are scheduled from the second half of April. So, no date will be convenient for students. The JEE (Main) online test is on April 15-16 and individual college entrances are lined up too,” said Priya Nath, mother of a Class XII science student.
 
 
