Coimbatore: The city police have cracked a six-year-old heist and recovered Rs 12 lakh in cash and gold stolen from an NRI and her partner in a hotel here. A police team from Coimbatore visited Telengana, where the mastermind of the heist was arrested in connection with another case, and traced the stolen gold to a Mumbai-based jeweller. Rs 4 lakh-worth gold was recovered from the jeweller while the stolen cash was recovered from the bank account of the burglar. He was produced in a Coimbatore court and sent to the central jail on Monday. According to police, the victim, Jyothi Chandramohan, a dentist from Vadavalli residing in the United Kingdom, was staying at CAG Pride Hotel in Gandhipuram on November 20, 2012 along with her partner Christopher David from the UK. The couple had left the hotel and went out for dinner on the day and returned to the room around 10.30pm when they found their belongings stolen. A platinum diamond necklace, a pair of platinum studs, two platinum diamond chains, one white gold chain, a dollar with a green stone, a 10-sovereign gold bangle, a pair of platinum diamond studs, a pair of gold studs, 11 luxury watches and one diamond bracelet, all worth more than Rs 10 lakh were missing. Police zeroed in on two men – identified as Jayesh Raviji Sejpal, and Ramesh Banerjee from Gujarat - who were seated on the hotel lounge that evening and launched a hunt for them. Though police hit a roadblock, their run ended recently when Jayesh was caught by Telengana police on March 20. City police commissioner K Periaiah sent a police team headed by Race Course inspector V Mohanraj to Hyderabad.  Jayesh told police that he had sold the stolen diamond and platinum jewellery and deposited the cash in a bank account. He melted the gold jewellery and sold the gold to a Mumbai-based jeweller. The team then went to Mumbai and recovered 150 grams of gold worth Rs 4 lakh from the jeweller and Rs 8.33 lakh from the account of a nationalized bank. “Jayesh has about 16 cases against him across the country, all of similar nature. He used to steal from star hotels. He was arrested in Chennai in 2006 and was booked under the goondas Act. He had also underwent imprisonment in Andhra Pradesh,” Mohanraj said. The recovered goods were produced in the court and the complainant has been informed.