CHENNAI: Four years ago, the body of a man was brought to the Velankadu   where   had just joined as a  . As the usual workers were on leave, she had to step in. As Praveena approached the corpse, she was scared and felt giddy. It took a couple of hours for her to return to normal. Today, she has seen more than 4,000 bodies being cremated.

 It was Praveena’s ‘swimming against the flow’ attitude that helped her. Recently, she received the ‘First Ladies’   from Maneka Gandhi, minister for women and child welfare, at a function in Rashtrapati Bhavan. The award is an initiative to recognise women who excel in their respective fields.
 
 "Being a caretaker of a crematorium was initially difficult. Seeing bodies every day was depressing, but I got used to it. Someone has to take care of the dead too," said Praveena, who is now in charge of the Puzhuthivakkam government crematorium.
 
 With her will power, this literature graduate soon developed a good relationship with the mourners who accompany the dead. "I believe that being a woman gives sensibility to approach death and mourn with care," she said. ‘’Most of them break down during the funeral. They have no one to comfort them and at times, they have children accompanying them. I think it is important for me as a caretaker to lend them support. I stand next to them till the end of the funeral and ensure that the child accompanying them eats something and heal."
 
 In India, women entering a crematorium are still considered taboo, socially and according to religion. "It is predominantly men who perform all the last rites. Some get angry when they see a woman administering those rituals. I have come across many such incidents. Despite regular verbal abuse, threats, and ill-treatment, I keep my head high and take pride in rendering the service," said Praveena, who works with the Indian Community Welfare Organization, an NGO that supports   in maintaining the crematorium.
 
 Praveena is happy for the recognition that she received. "My job never ends with cremation. I ensure the crematorium premises is kept clean. We have made the crematorium a better place for everyone. With toilets and wall paintings, I have tried to give a fresh look to the existing crematoriums. The idea is to create a social environment in and around the premises. I wish I could do this in all the crematoriums in the city," said Praveena.
 
 
