CHANDIGARH: The   investigations have revealed that fear of rising dissidence amongst the young ‘sadhus’ (disciples) was also one of the reasons behind castration of a large number of youthful followers inside Dera Sacha Sauda in  . 

 According to the premier agency’s investigation report, there was wide-spread resentment among dera followers in 1999-2000 due to the growing affluence of its head   and his aides.
 
 “Gurmeet Singh had constructed big bungalows for himself and his family members. His aides were also benefitting financially at the cost of poor sewadars (devotees). The young sewadars were longing for parity with the so-called management members and also wanted to share the affluence of  . They (young sewadars) also wanted to help their family members financially from their earnings at the dera,” says the CBI probe. According to the CBI, the dera chief was afraid of the rising dissidence amongst the young followers and planned to castrate those who were likely to demand financial help and were also inclined to revolt against him.
 
 These findings are part of the chargesheet submitted by the investigative agency before special CBI court in Panchkula against Gurmeet Singh and two doctors for castration of followers inside the dera.
 
 The chargesheet has also revealed that in 1999, Gurmeet had publicly threatened all sadhus of the dera, that they would be castrated to ensure that they should not run behind any girl. The announcement was made by him after a young devotee Baljinder Singh alias Jidda was found stalking female devotees inside the dera on several occasions. Baljinder was caught by Sukhdev Diwana, a senior dera functionary. His face was blackened and he was forced to sit on a donkey and made to leave the dera.
 
 During investigation, CBI had found Baljinder and examined him. He stated that after the incident he had no contact with dera but corroborated the entire incident. Baljinder, now a resident of Bathinda, has also been named as witness by the CBI in this case.
 
 CBI examined only 28 castrated followers
 
 The agency had started investigation after obtaining a list of 166 followers who were allegedly castrated. The list was provided before the HC by the petitioner, Hans Raj Chauhan. During the CBI investigation, only six followers confirmed that they were castrated at the behest of Gurmeet Singh by Dr Pankaj Garg and Dr M P Singh. Twenty followers admitted that they were castrated but were evasive about the circumstances of the crime. They also refused to undergo any medical examination. One castrated devotee is reportedly missing and another is settled abroad. The remaining followers could not be contacted as their addresses provided in the petition were vague and unclear.
 
 
