The tenth week of Happy Streets in the city offered a crash course on health and fitness. With pound training and functional training sessions, participants got to know how to stay fit and healthy even while doing routine work.

 Along with the weekly Zumba session, the Sunday’s event also featured aerobics and pound training, which is a new style of cardio workout. Pound training is in its nascent stage in India. Beethoven, who calls himself a ‘Pound Fit Pro’, conducted the session. Done by tapping two poles held in each hand, the exercise is done to music.
 
 “Pound training is a lower body workout. It amounts to squats and lunges. In this training, we use our arms more than 1,000 times. It is a high intensity workout, which helps in weight loss and toning. But, we hardly recognise it as it is a fun-filled exercise,” said Beethoven.
 
 The day also had a session on functional training. Murugaprabhu, a functional trainer, gave a speech on how to maintain one’s health by adopting several simple methods such as taking proper diet at proper intervals. “Functional training focuses on training internal organs. Everyone can practise it, no matter the age. It is enough to do the training for just 45 to 50 minutes a day for four to five days a week. It’s all about smart work and using one’s body scientifically,” he said.
 
 Murugaprabhu said people should follow diet and exercise based on science. “Anyone can Google and follow any exercise. But, one should know what to do at what time,” he added.
 
 People from all ages participated in the workout sessions. The day also had games and other fun events such as cycling and skateboarding.
 
 R Gopalakrishnan, a self-taught artist, sketched portraits of interested participants in less than a minute. “Right now, I take almost 50 to 60 seconds to finish a portrait. I am trying to reduce it to 30 seconds and attempt a Guinness record,” he said.
 
 Vox Pop:
 
 Dr C Srinivas, Dermatologist: I usually come for a walk on Sundays. This is the second time I am dropping in for the Happy Streets. I can also meet my friends and acquaintances, who come here
 
 D Sriram, Professional: This is the second visit to Happy Streets. It is a nice way to spend Sundays
 
 
