While the country welcomed Supreme Court’s decision to re-examine its view, which criminalises gay sex under Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the ‘South Asian Conference On Gender and Sexuality’ held at   recently was a hub of revelation as it touched on the alarming issue of exclusion of the LGBTQ community and representation in Indian cinema.

  
 
 
  Nandita Das spoke about how Fire (1998) was the first film to start a dialogue on homosexuality — a topic that was swept under the carpet in most households. “After having done 40 films in various languages, Fire is one of those few films that had an impact,” said the actress-director, who was a part of the panel, which included speakers like filmmaker  , actor  , LGBTQ activist Dr Aditya Joshi, professor at Jamia Millia Islamia University Shohini Ghosh and lawyer and human rights activist Vrinda Grover. “Whether you liked the film, hated it or were uncomfortable about it, suddenly there was a reference point to start a conversation (on LGBT). For me, personally, it was a life-changing experience. I have understood homosexuality on an intellectual level, but I often get asked ‘Why do you care about LGBTQ community? You are straight. Is your brother gay?’ The problem is we have not thought about it as our issue. In fact, it is only after Fire that I realised what an insensitive world we live in,” she explained. 
 
  Nandita, whose upcoming biopic on writer Saadat Hasan Manto is set to release this year, feels that with every passing day, the society is succumbing to the fear of unknown and that, freedom of expression cannot be exercised as one could back in the 90s. “What has changed now? I think Fire released without a single cut despite the presence of self-proclaimed custodians of culture, who thought the film should be stopped. Today, if something like this happens, I don’t think people will come out on streets to support us like they did back in 1998. People talked about freedom of expression, whether they agreed or disagreed with the film. I don’t know if a film like Fire can be made today. Are we liberal enough as a society to make a film like that or even a film like Firaaq (2008)? I don’t know how Manto is going to be received. We live in times of fear and silence, where we are ready to bow down even before we are slapped by someone,” she said.
 
  The award-winning actress also shared a rather disturbing anecdote, which was an offshoot of social media bullying. “Someone wrote that I said, ‘All men are potential rapists’. I would never make a generic statement like that, but people started tagging me on pictures of my five-year-old son and asking, ‘Is he a potential rapist, too?’ I was scared for myself and my family. I don’t know the source of the quote, but I had to clarify it,” she shared.
 
  
 
 
  Celebrated director Onir spoke of how the world around him concentrates on his sexual orientation and not the variety of work he has done. “I am tired of being constantly quoted as the only openly gay director in Bollywood. I made My Brother Nikhil, it was my fifth script, which accidentally became my first film. I am always fighting this notion that because I am gay, I made My Brother Nikhil. I have made films that deal with child abuse or even Kashmiri pandits, but that doesn’t make me a victim of abuse or a Kashmiri Pandit. It’s just that you feel about certain issues,” said the director.
 
  Despite winning a National Award for ‘Best Feature Film’ for I Am (2012), the director still struggles to get his films to the theatres. Talking about the humongous task of getting his films cleared across various boards, the filmmaker shared, “I went to the FCAT to get a U/A certificate for Shab (2017), I received a written letter from them, saying ‘It glorifies homosexuality’. At the end of it, I am really worried as to whether I really want to make another film.” 
 
  
 
 
  Yet another popular name from the film and theatre world, Jim Sarbh shared a few funny anecdotes from his audition days. Reflecting upon the numerous instances of ‘stereotypical gay jokes’, the Neerja-famed actor said, “I was part of an advertisement where I was asked to repeat a take because they thought my walk was not manly enough. It is shocking that people are discussing these things the way they are. It is not because I come from an amazingly Bohemian family and even my family will have a tough time to come to terms with it, if I said I was gay or bisexual. People should express themselves the way they want to as long as they are not causing any harm to another person.”
 
  Jim, who is well aware of the ways of showbiz, refuses to conform to stereotypes. “Men are expected to behave a certain way, especially in Bollywood and the idea is promoted vehemently. But I have no intentions of doing it, not unless you’re playing that stereotypical role of a macho man as the only representation of men. As long as the films are being sensitive to these gender roles, I will do it. But if a role says ‘that’s how men are’, I will fight that,” asserted the actor.
 
  
  
 
