

 This is a new attempt for every one of us. It’s an experimental film, in the sense that this is the first time that a space film is being made in Kollywood at least, but the content will engage the audience. Almost 80 per cent of the film involves VFX, which could either win us accolades or get us brickbats. The only thing we were sure of when we started this project was that the audience is hungry for newer things and will accept content that kindles their interest. And that was proven the day the teaser released. The audience was appreciative of our efforts. 
 
 
 To come up with a script like this is a challenging job for a director, and Shakti has put in some crazy effort. His brain would have exploded if he had shot for 10 extra days. Each and every frame is important to the film because logic is attached to every shot. He had to keep a checklist of at least 50 things for each frame and keep ticking it off while we progressed. Actually, we broke the grammar of shooting while working on this film. Usually, it’s the AD who would focus on position and call for the actors later. But in this one, they were hanging from a rope for us and we were calling out positions. As far as my prep is concerned, I have seen films based on space before and had a fair idea how things work. Also, our motor skills are the same in space and there’s zero gravity. So, it was all about execution.
 
 
 We are proud of the fact this is one Tamil film that has pushed the boundaries when it comes to filmmaking. So  , we are ready and game for comparison.
 
 
 Shakti first asked me if I could play a dad in the film because he was worried that I would be worried about my image! When I told him I was game for it if the script demanded, he suggested Aarav's name for the part. So, I asked Aarav if he was willing to shoot. And he was like, ‘Oh, pannalame’. He has come to shooting spots with me and has seen me work on the sets. So, he was quite cool about it. Also, I noticed that he has performed better in the scenes in which I wasn’t there. So, I figured I should leave him to follow his own style (laughs). 
 
 
 Just the other day, Shakti and I were having a conversation on what the audience of today wants because there is this new wave of cinema that's taking over. They want pure cinematic experience, or else, they can watch shows and films on TV itself, right? If we have to draw them to the theatre, we need to give them something that they haven’t experienced before. That’s probably why I was happy to do a zombie film or play an aadivasi or did  , in which we explored the concept of koodu vittu koodu paayaradhu. Nobody can predict what’s going on in their mind. These days, every thing is available online, and they can watch it in the comfort of their home on their mobile phones or TV screen. It's a challenge to satisfy the audience.
 
 
 When was the last time you saw me play a chocolate boy? Santosh Subramaniam and Engeyum Kadhal, maybe? When I have the energy, mind and body to work on films in different genres, why should I restrict myself? Chocolate boy roles, I can do them any day!
 
 
 We’ve grown watching films and attending film festivals together. We’ve shared ideas and discussed scripts from the scratch. Yes, I miss working with him, but we can make it happen any day. We are constantly in touch. He was spellbound watching the trailer of Tik Tik Tik and told me that he was proud of the fact that I decided to do this film. Also, as a periappa, he is damn proud. I saw Velaikkaran even before re-recording. I hugged him tight and said that he needed guts to take up such a subject. I think that film is pure ‘enlightment’. 
 
 
 Cinema is my inspiration, and for me, it’s my life as well. Others see a movie as a whole movie, but I see it shot by shot. Only if each and every shot comes out well will the sequences, scene and the movie turn out good. So, I give my best to each shot. 
 
 
 To make new mistakes. 
 
 
 I wait for the box office report every time I have a release. Forget success, it comes and goes, but I believe that the producer who trusted our belief and invested in us should be able to recover his money. So, box office definitely matters to me. 
 
 
