SHIMLA: High Commissioner of  , Joanna  , along-with a team of delegates met chief minister Jai Ram   in Shimla on Friday and discussed ways to provide technical knowledge in horticulture and related industry.

 Thakur apprised delegates from New Zealand about horticultural practices in orchards and the need to expand these to other districts. He also informed them about the World Bank funded Rs 1,134 crore   project to support introduction of new technologies in the field of horticulture.
 
 He said the vision of high-tech horticulture would revolutionise the horticulture sector and ensure a prosperous future for fruit growers of the hill state. “I have been told that New Zealand has made remarkable progress in producing high quality apple per hectare, which averages around 65 MT per hectares,” he said.
 
 Thakur said experts from New Zealand would extend the technical knowledge to experts of the horticulture department and farmers in the state, which would improve people’s lives. He told experts that the challenge before them is to enhance productivity in the state from 6 to 7 metric tonnes to at least 50% metric tonnes.
 
 He said the government is aware of the challenges faced by growers and said the threat of climate change has forced fruit growers and agriculturists to adopt new innovations in crop diversification. Rejuvenation of traditional, old and low productive orchards in present scenario is the need of the hour, he said.
 
 Horticulture minister Mahendar Singh Thakur said the focus should be not be concentrated to a particular pocket or region of the state. He also inquired into irrigation component for root stocks. Thakur said the government has to improve economic conditions of small and marginal farmers, who account for around 85% of fruit growing farmers in the state, including 33% women farmers.
 
 The contract agreement has been signed between experts from New Zealand and project authorities of Himachal Pradesh Horticulture Development project.
 
 
