Amritsar: Ahead of Shivratri, Pakistan’s Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB) has ordered as many as 12 idols of Hindu deities from India to get these installed in historical temples at Katasraj in Chakwal district. This came after Pakistan’s supreme court in December 2017 expressed concern over the absence of statues of Lord Rama and Hanuman form Katasraj temples after taking suo motu notice of media reports. 

 “I have asked our high commissioner in New Delhi to procure idols of Hindu deities, including Lord Hanuman, Kalit Mata and Lord Shiva from a Delhi market,” ETPB chairman Siddiq-ul-Farooq told TOI over phone from Katasraj on January 8. He also held a meeting with Hindu priests and Hindu politicians who had converged at Katasraj from three provinces of Pakistan Punjab, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Sindh. He stated that the Pakistan high commission in New Delhi had been assigned the duty to procure the idols from Paharganj, which would be brought by Hindu devotees arriving at Katasraj to celebrate Shivratri on February 11. 
 
 Farooq further said that the aim of the ETPB to convene a meeting of prominent Hindu priests and representatives from three provinces was to take their suggestions for implementation of the Hindu code of religious conduct in Hindu temples. “We have encouraged local Hindu populace to fearlessly carry out their religious rituals, including havanas and yajnas, in temples,” said Farooq, adding that the ETPB had appointed a permanent Hindu priest for a salary of around Rs 24,000 in this connection. In addition, he added that to encourage the priest, the ETPB had announced another Rs 10,000 per month allowance for him.
 
 He also gave information regarding various development works, including fencing of a holy pond, which was carried out by the ETPB for the development of the cluster of historical Hindu temples.
 
 Meanwhile, Farooq stated that on Monday, the ETPB had also finalized a site for the construction of a 136-room serai (inn) at the birthplace of Guru Nanak Dev in Nankana Sahib. The proposed site was within the Gurdwara Nankana Sahib complex and the construction would begin in February.
 
 
