HYDERABAD: With work on construction of 56 reservoirs across the city set to be completed in the next four months, the Telangana government is aiming to provide 150 litres of water to every individual in urban areas, said municipal administration and urban development minister KT   on Friday.

 
 He was speaking at the third edition of ‘Mana Nagaram’ town hall meeting, which is part of the minister’s ongoing interactions with resident welfare associations, in Kukatpally.
 
 Several civic issues such as rehabilitation of vendors, shortage of drinking water,
 
 maintenance of green cover, drainage overflows and supply of fresh water, were raised by residents of the area at the citizen interaction programme.
 
 KTR pointed out how the water requirement in rural areas was 100 litres per person while that for urban areas was 150 litres.
 
 He added that the government is planning to purchase 500 electric buses to reduce pollution in the city. All diesel buses would be phased out over a period of time, he said. “The GHMC had already pressed such electric buses into service for garbage collection.”
 
 Citing the recent removal of blankets and sleeping mats from a storm water drain by the sanitation staff in Ameerpet, KTR appealed to citizens to be more responsible and sensitive towards civic issues. He called upon people to use separate bins for solid and liquid waste.
 
 After the town hall meeting, the minister visited several stalls set up in the vicinity. The JNTU service road and a graveyard at   were inspected by the chief city planner and zonal commissioner of Kukatpally along with KTR.
 
 Several residents approached the minister with their grievances. One among them was 85-year-old Seshanavaratnam, a resident of KPHB Colony, who complained about a restaurant operating in her locality without a no-objection certificate ( ) from the fire safety department. KTR, who spent several minutes trying to understand the woman’s concerns, directed the zonal commissioner, West Zone, Hari Chandana, to look into it personally.
 
 Another resident of Kukatpally, Vedavathi, complained about constant flooding of Devinagar Colony. The municipal minister directed GHMC officials to take necessary action.
 
 Laxma Reddy, a resident of KPHB Colony, pointed out how the saplings planted as part of the Haritha Haram programme across open spaces in the city had withered away now. KTR assured that this issue would be addressed and open spaces would be get a green cover.
 
 Minister Mahender Reddy, mayor Bonthu Rammohan, Malkajgiri MP Malla Reddy and Kukatpally MLA   were also present during the interaction meeting.
 
 
