MYSURU: Officials of the   (MCC) have spent the better part of two years running from pillar to post to get clearance for construction of municipal solid   at Kesare and Rayanakere. Now, after a long wait, the civic agency has finally managed to get clearance from the State Environmental Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA) to start waste processing plants at these two places. 

 Pointing out that MCC was the only civic body across the state, which has received clearance from the panel, officials said, “This is the result of our hard work and commitment.”
 
 MCC was granted environmental clearance by SEIAA for the construction of two solid waste processing units – while the plant at Kesare will be built to process 200 tonnes of waste per day, the one at Rayanakere will handle 150 tonnes per day.
 
 The 65 wards that come under the ambit of MCC cumulatively generate 410 tonnes of waste on a daily basis, 80% of which is generated from households. The civic body had planned to upgrade existing the Vidranyapuram Sewage Farm for handling 200 tonnes per day of mixed waste per day.
 
 Interestingly, a detailed project report for all the three plans were prepared in 2016, but the MCC ran pillar to post to get clearance from the   (AAI), and approval from chief secretary of Karnataka, the high power committee, director of municipal administration, Karnataka Urban Infrastructure Development Authority and SEIAA.
 
 Now, MCC authorities have received approval from all agencies for remodeling of the solid waste processing units at the Vidyaranyapuram Sewage Farm at a cost of Rs 13 crore, while the plants at Kesare and Rayanakere will be established respectively at the cost of Rs 21 crore and Rs 16 crore.
 
 MCC health officer H Ramachandra told TOI that that the three units will be able to handle waste till 2050 even if the population of Mysuru were to touch that of Bengaluru’s.
 
 Political tussle 
 
 Meanwhile, a political tussle of sorts has started between Congress MLA MK Somashekar and BJP leader SA Ramdas, each of whom is trying to appropriate credit for the clearance given by the competent authorities for the two new plants.
 
 While the Nagarika Hitarakshana Samithi held a meeting at Vidranyapuram on Saturday to help Somashekar in his efforts to get clearance for the remodeling of the swage farm, Ramdas reminded the people that he had staged a hunger protest for two days in December, besides airing his concerns to central authorities to have the plant inspected.
 
 Somashekar said that residents of Vidranyapuram, JP Nagar, Kanakagiri, Gundurao Nagar and surrounding areas would no longer be troubled by the stench emanating from the plant, since the waste would get distributed to the units at Kesare and Rayanakere.
 
 Ramdas said, “The   responded to our complaints, which has resulted in two waste processing plants being set up at Kesare and Rayanakere. I thank all the people who participated in the fight.”
 
 
