KANPUR: In yet another shocking incident, a six-year-old girl, who went missing from a wedding venue, was found dead under mysterious circumstances in   area of   district on late Wednesday night. 

 Cops have neither confirmed nor denied rape angle in the crime.
 
 The police said that the girl’s body was found abandoned in a drain at a secluded spot around the wedding venue and that following a complaint by her parents, police have detained a 24-year-old neighbouring village youth identified as Rajesh alias Nitin for questioning.
 
 The little girl went missing at around 9 pm on Wednesday ahead of the `Jaimaal' ceremony during the wedding even as her parents and other guests were on the lookout for her. "Three hours later at around 12.10 am, the girl was found lying in an unconscious state in a drain covered with shrubs at a secluded place close to the wedding venue. She was rushed to a hospital, where doctors pronounced her dead on arrival," said additional superintendent of police  , who, however, added, "No external injury was found on the body, as per the preliminary findings."
 
 However, he said final opinion about the exact cause of her death or whether she was sexually assaulted can be given after the post-mortem report and chemical analysis analysis of the viscera. "At this moment, we cannot confirm, neither ruled out sexual assault and are awaiting postmortem report, besides investigating the case from all angles," he said.
 
 A senior police official meanwhile said that the girl’s body has been sent to district hospital's mortuary for post-mortem examination, while the suspect Rajesh alias Nitin, a B.Sc passout, has been detained and investigation is on. "Based on the written complaint of victim’s parents, wherein they have alleged that Rajesh alias Nitin, in a drunk state, was spotted last by them with their daughter at the wedding venue, has been detained and his questioning is currently underway at   police station. Rajesh hails from the neighbouring Paraspur village," he told TOI further.
 
