Chandigarh: Women riding two-wheelers in the city will soon have to wear  . 

 Following directions from the Punjab and Haryana high court, the UT administration on Tuesday made an amendment in the Chandigarh Motor Vehicle Rules, 1990, paving way for helmets becoming compulsory for women. At present, wearing helmet is optional for women  . Sikh women have been exempted on religious grounds.
 
 The decision was taken after considering the aspect of safety of women, including that of Sikh women who are not wearing turban, particularly in view of the fatalities occurring in accidents.
 
 The words, “a Sikh   wearing a turban”, instead of words “or a Woman” have been proposed to be substituted in Rule 193 of the Chandigarh Motor Vehicle Rules. The administration has invited objection from the general public before issuing a formal notification.
 
 In recent years, there has been a rise in number of women on two-wheelers losing their lives. In 2017, a total of 18 women were killed in road accidents, while 68 sustained injuries. According to official figures, around 43% people killed in road accidents were two-wheeler riders. In 2016, 20 women were killed in different road accidents, while a total of 79 suffered injuries.
 
 “No religion is above safety of measures. By exempting women from wearing helmets, Punjab and Chandigarh has put their life on danger. The inequality treatment by Punjab as well as Chandigarh is not justifiable keeping in view of the safety of the women. Even though Haryana does not provide any exemption to women from hearing helmets, no strict action is taken against those violating the rules,” the high court was told earlier. It was further stated that on one side the government was launching several schemes to save the girl child and women empowerment, on the other it had completely failed to save women from accidents by not making the protective headgears compulsory for them.
 
 BOX: Failed attempt
 
 The UT administration in 2000 had made an unsuccessful attempt of making helmets mandatory for women riding two-wheelers. They had faced protest from various religious bodies forcing the authorities to roll back the decision.
 
 
