LUCKNOW: For the past several days, six-year-old   had been missing out on her studies. The reason being her parents' inability to pay her school fees. But now, the Balaganj resident will not have to worry about a break in her studies till she wants to continue studying in her life, courtesy a scholarship from Praveer Singh. 

 The assistance was made possible by a unique scholarship launched by citizen-driven initiative Shoulder to Shoulder (S2S) Foundation, as another step towards building bridges between communities. 
 
 The facility 'S2S Shiksha Tehreek' allows any individual or group to institute a scholarship in the name of a family member or institution and commit the amount for tuition fees and books for at least one year but with a rider, that the scholarship is for a child from another community. 
 
 The recent initiative has already received four sponsors. 
 
 "I've named the scholarship in my father's name - Raghvendra Singh and will continue to fund Ziqra's education till the time she wants to study. Once she is done, I will fund another child. This is not just educating a child, but sending a strong message of peace and harmony," said Singh. 
 
 Ziqra's father is unemployed due to illness and her mother sews clothes from home. 
 
 A bright student   (6) was also on the verge of being a drop out when   instituted a scholarship in his father Haji Mohd Shafi's memory. 
 
 "Sachin's father, a rickshaw puller, was going to stop his education. The scholarship is a boon to the child who is good at studies," said school co-ordinator  . 
 
 The scholarship comes to the aid of children who have potential to study but have to drop out of school because of lack of financial resources.
 
  It also gives a message of communal harmony in times of strife," said Furquan. 
 
 S2S Foundation has previously organised Shia-Sunni namaz on Eid-ul-Zuha, roza iftars at gurdwaras, participated in langars on Guru Parv, organised khichdi feast on   among other activities for promoting communal harmony. 
 
