NAGPUR: On Wednesday, colleges slammed the government and the social welfare department over lack of clarity on post-matric scholarship disbursal and once again maintaining silence on fund transfer.

 Assistant commissioner of social welfare   had convened a meeting of all colleges from the district after the government stopped processing scholarship applications through MahaDBT at   at Sadar.
 
 College representatives had come expecting an early solution to the crisis facing institutes and students. However, the discussion was limited to the formalities to be completed by colleges and students.
 
 College officials TOI spoke with said they already know how to apply. “We want to know when money would be transferred. The commissioner kept reiterating how the applications have to be made. We have already worked on the old process and know how to do it,” they said.
 
 On January 17, TOI had reported about the shutting down of MahaDBT portal to disburse scholarship to reserved category students.
 
 The officials said even the letter mailed to them didn’t clarify the agenda of the Wednesday’s meet. In its letter, the assistant commissioner had simply mentioned that a discussion on scholarship would be held and attached a similar letter from Mumbai.
 
 Following the state government decision to suspend scholarship process through MahaDBT, the department as well as colleges were worried about the entire exercise. The colleges were told to revert to old system of applying for scholarships.
 
 During the meet, colleges, mostly non-grant institutions, said they were not against making applications again but there should be a deadline for transferring funds. “In non-grant colleges, almost 100% students are entitled to some or other type of scholarship. The department is only telling us which documents have to be submitted in redoing the process. We know the formalities very well and they are also mentioned in the guidelines. We came to know when we would be getting the money,” an official said.
 
 Another said only tall promises have been made while there is nothing on paper. “There are no funds to clear our bills running into crores. Colleges are facing pressure from all quarters. If we don’t have funds, we are unable to pay salaries. Many have gone without pay for three or four months so far. Then, we can’t go ahead with infrastructure expansion. Ultimately, bodies like UGC, AICTE and   pull us up and hold back our proposal because we are unable to pay our staff and provide facilities,” he said.
 
 
