On Thursday, Reliance Jio announced Postpaid Plan, which is its first step towards the smaller section of India's telecom market. The first plan under this new scheme is the Rs 199 plan, which comes with 25GB of high-speed 4G data every month. Like in all other Jio plans, this one also offers unlimited SMS, free voice calls and premium subscriptions to Jio Apps. The telecom giant says ISD calls will be offered to all Jio customers having the 199 postpaid plan, without having the need of any security deposit. Along with this, the company is promoting the "one-click" activation of international roaming for all buyers of this plan. Jio in its new plan will be available for subscription from May 15, 2018 Tuesday. The International Calling (ISD) Starts under the plan is at Rs. 0.50 per minute to USA and Canada, and go up to Rs. 2 per minute to Bangladesh, China, France, Italy, New Zealand, Singapore, and United Kingdom; Rs. 3 per minute to Hong Kong, Indonesia, Malaysia, and Turkey; Rs. 4 per minute to Australia, Bahrain, Pakistan, and Thailand; Rs. 5 per minute to Germany, Ireland, Japan, Kuwait, Russia, and Vietnam, and finally, Rs. 6 per minute to Israel, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, UAE, and Uzbekistan. The international roaming is offered to the consumers in two steps depending on the country the user is going to. A tariff offers voice calls at Rs 2 per minute, mobile data at Rs 2 per MB and messages at Rs 2 per message. Other tariff offers include voice calls at mobile data at Rs 10 per MB, Rs 10 per minute and SMS messages at Rs 10 per message. The same roaming tariffs and international calling are offered for Jio's prepaid customers also Jio also have out details of international roaming packs. For Rs 575, the users will get unlimited local calls for international destinations and also to India, unlimited text messages and 250MB high-speed data that is valid for 1 day. Likewise, the same benefits can be availed for 7 days at Rs 2,875 and at Rs 5,751, the data allocation is increased to 5GB and validity is 30 days. 

