Vijayawada: The   (VMC), which is working towards ending the menace of open  , has come up with the idea of deploying special team, which will inform citizens of toilets installed by the civic body.

 Members of the teams, who are known as ‘Swachh Grahi’, will be stationed at spots across the city where open urination is rampant.
 
 The phenomenon has become a huge problem for the VMC, which is aiming for a top-10 position in Swachh Survekshan - 2018. The VMC had taken painting and repair work of around walls, totalling 13,000 square metre, where urination is rampant. The work, which gave the city a modern touch, was completed by the end of December 2017.
 
 Officials repaired public toilets and urinals at major junctions. However, measures taken by the VMC failed to yield desired results, and open urination continues across the city. Citizens have been found urinating on beautifully painted walls near Old government hospital, Gunadala Power office junction, and other major areas in the city. Citizens have failed to support the civic body in this campaign. Dr Babu Srinivas, VMC chief medical and health officer in-charge, said: “We identified more than 100 urination spots in the city, and took action to beautify and repair them. Still, the problem is continuing at 20 major locations in the city, and we have deployed ‘Swachh Grahi’ to control open urination.” The Swachh Grahi’s will work in three shifts to control open urination, mainly at Pandit Nehru Bus station, Vijayawada Junction Railway Station, and other locations, he said. “We have installed urinals and public toilets at major locations to create a healthy atmosphere. We will beautify and repair all locations in future,” Srinivas said. 
 
 “We have successfully controlled open urination, and imposed fines on violators,” he said. K Durga Rao, a Swachh Grahi working at PNBS, said: “We are happy that we are part of making the city clean. The citizens argue with us when we ask them not to pollute the city. We are educating them, and urging them to use washrooms. We were able to convince majority of them. Special teams are imposing penalties on those ignoring warnings.” VMC chief J Nivas asked denizens not to pollute the city by urinating. 
 
 
