MOHALI: Demanding parity in VAT with neighbouring states, members of the Petrol Pump Dealers’ Association of   (PPDAP) adopted a Gandhian way of protest by holding a state-wide agitation in the form a  , an indefinite hunger strike in   on Tuesday. PPDAP warned it would intensify the agitation by closing down petrol pumps across the state if the government did not yield.

 Raising slogans against the Punjab government, PPDAP members accused the state government of causing Rs 2,000 crore revenue loss per annum on account of diversion of business and smuggling caused by higher VAT.
 
 On day one of the agitation, PPDAP president   and dealers Sohan Lal and Monty Sehgal sat on hunger strike. Asserting that the strike would continue till the government accepted their demands, Doaba and  , spokesperson, PPDAP said they had been forced to resort to a hunger strike because the government had refused to heed their pleas. 
 
 “We have submitted numerous representations to the government, but to no avail. If our hunger strike also fails to move them, we will intensify our protests by shutting down petrol pumps,” they warned. Claiming that higher VAT in Punjab has set the state exchequer back by Rs 40,000 crore over the past 17 years, Chawla described it as a “scam of enormous proportions being operated at the behest of taxation authorities”.
 
 “Punjab’s revenue from VAT on petrol and diesel has declined by Rs 190 crore in the first half of 2017-18, in stark contrast with  , which has recorded a Rs 308-crore increase in VAT receipts. The only beneficiaries are taxation authorities and unscrupulous elements, including dealers, who continue to work in collusion to rob Punjab of its rightful revenue through smuggling and diversion of business to neighbouring Haryana, Chandigarh and Himachal,” said Chawla.
 
  PPDAP spokesperson said lower VAT would attract additional revenue of Rs 2,000 crore per year by bringing smuggling to an end and pushing up sales. He said as per the analysis of the  , if VAT and other state levies on petrol are reduced from 37.54% to 25%, there will be a loss of 12.54%, but sales will go up by 100%.
 
 
