Vadodara: Income tax investigations in the Amit Bhatnagar promoted Diamond Power Infrastructure Ltd (DPIL) accounts have revealed that the company may have committed fraud to the tune of Rs 165 crore by showing depreciation of machinery that they had never purchased.  I-T officials said that they found several anomalies in the account books and dealings of DPIL and their investigation would continue for few more days. “DPIL has shown depreciation of machinery in their factories in their account books. But our investigation has revealed that no such machinery exists. The company showed depreciation of about Rs 165 crore on the machines it never purchased. We have to recover the amount along with interest and penalty,” said a senior I-T official. The total amount of recovery may go up in the coming months. The I-T department recently attached DPIL’s properties including the factories and land worth Rs 1,000 crore. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) too had attached properties of DPIL and its related companies worth Rs 1,122 crore.  “If the company is unable to pay the amount we have to recover it by selling the attached properties,” the I-T official added. The I-T department has already seized jewellery worth lakhs of rupees from the residence of the DPIL management and bank lockers of their promoters. “We will open four other bank lockers next week,” the official added.  DPIL and its top management were booked by the CBI for cheating various banks to the tune of Rs 2,654 crore by falsification of records, creation of false documents and forgery of records. Those arrested include DPIL founder Suresh Bhatnagar and his sons - Amit Bhatnagar, the managing director and Sumeet Bhatnagar, the joint managing director. All three are currently in jail. The central probe agency had searched the corporate office of the company and residences of its directors in the city last week. According to the FIR filed by the CBI, DPIL availed loans despite its name appearing in RBI’s defaulters’ list and the Export Credit Guarantee Corporation caution list, which CBI officials say couldn’t have been possible without involvement of bank officials.