The episode of   begins with Alia sending Tanu to Chutka, Chutki and Pragya follows her. Tanu goes to a cottage where the kids are held captive and makes them do video call and talk to Munni. Chutki tells Munni that a man scolds them and beats them. Alia disconnects the call. Munni gets annoyed.

 Tanu comes out of the cottage and locks up the children. She then talks to the man and asks him to pay attention to the children. He asks her to mind her own business. Tanu thinks Raj has appointed the perfect person to take care of the children and leaves.
 
 The man looks scary to Pragya and she then calls Ankit and asks him to come over with some things. Ankit comes there and Pragya asks him to change into a baba’s get up. Ankit in his disguise goes to the man and tells him that he knows he has two kids in his custody. 
 
 He tells him that he is going to be a millionaire soon. The man gets fooled. Ankit asks him to inhale the smoke. The man faints. Pragya thanks Ankit for helping her out. She asks him to not tell anyone about the plan and that she will help him to get some decent acting job. Ankit leaves for his class and Pragya goes inside to take the kids. 
 
 She starts explaining to them who she is actually and the kids start questioning her. As they are about to leave the man gains consciousness and comes in. 
 
 Pragya asks him to let them go but he asks her to leave. Pragya tries to fool him by telling him that the police is standing behind but as they are about to go out he takes out his knife and puts it on Chutka’s neck. He asks Chutki to tie Pragya up. She does the same. The goon questions Pragya. Pragya says she won’t say a word or else he will cut Chutka 's neck and hurt him. He asks Chutki about who she is and a scared Chutki reveals it all and tells him that she is Pragya.
 
  Abhi is sitting with Dadi and Dasi. Disha and Mitali are there as well when he gets a phone call from Purab who asks him to come to the police station. The goon says he knows that everyone is scared of Pragya. He says he will tell the good news to Tanu and Alia. Pragya asks him to not do so and that she will give him the money but he yells at her and asks her to keep quiet. For more updates, keep watching this space.
 
