NAGPUR: The anti-corruption wing of   ( ) has unearthed an employment scam in Western Coalfield Limited (WCL) and have registered an offence against office superintendent Mahendra Janjerla at the office of General Manager (Operations) in   (A-1), 13 others working as general mazdoors, and other yet to be identified private persons. The scam led to a loss of more than Rs 52.71 lakh to   as salaries between 2011 and 2016.

 CBI found out that Janjerla had created forged and false sanction orders, issued appointment letters and medical examination reports misrepresenting for recruiting these general mazdoors Category I at different mines of WCL for five years.
 
 Janjerla, misusing the provision of providing jobs at WCL to dependent kin of any worker who had either died or rendered permanently disabled, created fake sanction orders for appointment in the name of senior manager (manpower) at WCL headquarters at Nagpur on various dates. Later, Janjerla issued fake appointment letters claiming these were issued by WCL Ballarpur Area office. Most of the employees had availed the job at WCL by claiming they have lost their father or other sole bread earner of the family while being in WCL service in different capacities.
 
 Some of these employees, like Pramod Raipure, Venugopal Dadhi, Jayprakash Reddy and others had also furnished fake documents for employment in place of their father claiming them to be ex-employee of WCL. CBI found that fathers of many of these employees did not work with WCL in the first place.
 
 CBI also claimed that Janjerla and his accomplices had prepared fake medical examination reports claiming them to have issued by Area Medical Officer and doctors of the Area Medical Hospital, Ballarpur Area, WCL. Armed with these reports, the fake employees are learnt to have reported to Area Personnel Manager at Pathakheda Area, Chandrapur Area and Wani North Area where WCL runs coalmines. They also underwent training before joining services at Pathakheda and Ballarpur. 
 
 They were dismissed from service after their fraudulent employment was exposed but by then WCL had paid them Rs 52.71 lakh as salary. Investigation is now being conducted under the CBI, SP, Vijayendra Bidari after the agency slapped charges of criminal conspiracy, misuse of the official position, and criminal misconduct among others.
 
 
 
