JERUSALEM: In its most serious engagement in neighbouring Syria since fighting there began in 2011, Israel shot down an infiltrating Iranian drone on Saturday and struck Iranian targets deep in Syria in “large-scale” attacks before one of its own F-16 fighter jets was downed.

 The sudden escalation offers what could be a harbinger of what lies ahead as the Syrian fighting winds down and an emboldened Iran establishes a military presence Israel vows it will never accept.
 
 Israel has issued several stern warnings of late about the increased Iranian involvement along its border in Syria and Lebanon. The Israeli cabinet just held a meeting near the Syrian border to highlight the new threats, which it attributes to Iran’s growing confidence given the success of the government of Bashar al-Assad in the Syrian civil war thanks to their support.
 
 
  
 
 
 Israel called the drone infiltration a “severe and irregular violation of Israeli sovereignty” and warned that Iran would be held accountable for its meddling, raising the spectre of a larger confrontation in an area that has remained largely stable since a monthlong war between Israel and   in Lebanon in 2006.
 
 “This is a serious   on Israeli territory. Iran is dragging the region into an adventure in which it doesn't know how it will end,” Israel’s chief military spokesman, Brig Gen Ronen Manelis, said in a special statement.
 
 Israel would not confirm whether the jet was actually shot down by enemy fire, which would mark the first such instance for Israel since 1982 during the first  . Israel fears Iran could use Syrian territory to stage attacks or create a land corridor from Iran to Lebanon that could allow it to transfer weapons more easily to Hezbollah — Lebanon’s Iranian-backed political party and militant group sworn to Israel’s destruction.
 
 Iran denied Israel’s shooting down of a drone. Regardless, Hezbollah said Saturday’s developments signaled a “new strategic phase” in engaging Israel, which has been mostly off the guerrilla group’s radar as it has been knee-deep in the fighting in Syria.
 
 Russia, which backs   and has a large military presence in Syria, urged restraint and appeared to criticise Israel’s actions. 
 
