As summer temperatures rise, people in several pockets in the city’s core areas — from   to T Nagar to Kotturpuram, as also several old localities in the north — have with increasing frustration seen their taps slowly go dry.
 
 The shortage is particularly concerning given the fact that   maintains that it sets aside for these areas 75%, or around 488 million litres per day (mld), of its current supply of 650mld, and that even the utility’s one-time daily supply of 830mld is short of the city’s demand of 1,200mld by at least 370mld.
 
 
  
 
 Adding to the problems of the water utility, and the potential that these residents could be staring at a severe shortfall this summer, Chennai’s four primary reservoirs now hold only enough water to serve the city for the next three to four months.
 
 While residents of these older parts of the city, with the exception of a few neighbourhoods, know their troubles have begun, things are worse on the outskirts: Metrowater is yet to start supply to outlying localities seven years after Greater Chennai Corporation’s cavalier annexation of these places in 2011.
 
 At a review meeting earlier this month, municipal administration and water supply minister S P   assured city residents that there would be no water shortage this year. He also said daily supply would not fall below 600mld till the end of the year. On the ground, of course, it’s a completely different story.
 
 Social activist N V Ranganayakalu, of Federation of Kottur Welfare Associations, said Metrowater has not supplied water to Kotturpuram and neighbourhoods nearby for two months.
 
 “The groundwater table in Kottur has fallen,” he said. “I cannot draw groundwater from the 120-ft-deep borewell in my house at the same rate that I used to in the past.”
 
 Metrowater’s supply to T Nagar has reduced by half in the last month. “Commercial establishments in T Nagar have overexploited groundwater and it has now turned saline,” Motilal Street resident Jayaraman said. “We depend on Metrowater’s supply but it has dwindled since March.”
 
 Metrowater completed pipeline-laying in Padi Kuppam (near  ) three years ago but the utility is yet to connect the pipelines to houses. Padi Kuppam resident R Vijay Kumar said he has not paid water and sewage tax to Metrowater in recent years because it failed to give residents connections.
 
 In parts of  , an area the corporation added in 2011, locals with political influence sell piped water at up to ?20 per pot, residents said.
 
 Metrowater officials promised to crack down on the illegal sale of water. “Residents only have to register complaints,” an official said.
 
 
