“I grew my nails long. I gave me a sense of security of being armed in case I was attacked.”

 “I have become a storyteller. Each time I am alone in a cab or auto-rickshaw, I pretend to be on the phone with someone, telling them stories and dropping my location to the imaginary listener so that the driver knows I am being tracked.”
 
 “I carry a pocket knife and a pepper spray, which I once sprayed around to see if it worked okay.”
 
 These are some of the responses   in Lucknow came up with when asked how they dealt with   on   in the city.
 
 
 Did anyone of it help prevent a repeat of the kind of incident that pushed them to do this in the first place?
 
 No, it didn’t. ‘Minor’ sexual harassment in daily life is something women learn to live with and are happy to ignore. A lewd comment while getting onto a bus, a hand ‘accidentally’ brushed against the chest while alighting from a tempo, a song with not-so-flattering lyrics obviously directed at them by the auto-rickshaw driver...its forms are many but the outcome is the same: Ignore it and move on.
 
 But are these incidents actually that easy to forget and move on from? Can an act like this affect a woman enough to change a life?
 
 Apparently yes, finds a researcher from London who recently completed a   on the subject in Lucknow.
 
 “Cases of low-grade sexual harassment that appears to be a routine irritant can have long-lasting impact, affecting the confidence, self-esteem and psyche of the affected girl or woman,” says Kartikeya Tripathi, a lecturer at University College London about his study.
 
 Native to Faizabad, Tripathi was in the city for a research on harassment on public transport in the city—a study he undertook because he feels the area never gets the focus it needs and because there is massive under-reporting by women themselves about their plight. 
 
 Financed by the university under the Global Engagement Fund at UCL, this was a project Tripathi had bid for after his PhD on security of global public transport.
 
 He had first come to Lucknow in 2015 during his PhD to study the same phenomenon. At the time, his research was based on responses by 200 female students aged 18-29 years for their experiences of sexual harassment on public transport in the city. The survey was administered by 20 research assistants, all students at Lucknow University’s department of social welfare, he says.
 
 However, those responses were based on objective type questions with options to choose from as answers. The area of the study was limited to around two colleges and most respondents were students.
 
 Assisted by Yeh Ek Soch Foundation, an NGO working in the area of women’s safety, that survey’s findings were published in a peer review journal, shared with Lucknow Metro, UP Police and then chief of Mahila Samman Prakoshth Sutapa Sanyal.
 
 While Lucknow Metro assured to keep these incidents in mind once the Metro begins operation, Sanyal promised to conduct awareness campaigns for the public.
 
 For 38-year-old Tripathi, however, it was only the beginning of an engagement he wanted to dig deeper into.
 
 “I wanted to see how these so-called minor transgressions can affect women deeply, restrict their movement, force them to quit college or a job, limit economic activity and result in major worries for their families,” says Tripathi.
 
  So this time, the method was focus group interviews—a detailed analysis where every session with a respondent lasts for an hour and the range of topics covered is wide.
 
 More than 100 women were approached but 26 agreed to talk. A good number for this method of survey, says Tripathi.
 
 The women came from all social backgrounds but used public transport everyday. Aged 19-32 years, most were unmarried. The average age was 23.
 
 It was difficult to find volunteers to talk about it, says Tripathi.
 
 “These women had never shared what they went through almost everyday. During the interviews, many broke down, saying how their lives were affected, how things would have been better had it not been for that one harasser they faced, how they couldn’t trust men in general and how their confidence was shaken.
 
 is end of the spectrum is equally important. They put up with this everyday. If you count each incident as one, they’ve been victimised thousands of times—almost everyday during three years of graduation.
 
 For example, a girl who cycled to school everyday was one day stopped by a man on a motorbike who passed comments at her and circled around her. The impact was such that she stopped going to school for two years.
 
 “She said her life and career were ‘ruined’ because of that one incident. She didn’t tell her family about it and those she shared it with said “so what, it just happened once” but that once had an impact to last a lifetime,” he says.
 
 Not sharing is probably the biggest problem. Due to the stigma attached to harassment of any kind, reporting it to a person of authority was out of the question for most women. With family, the fear usually was ‘if I share it, they will ask me to sit at home and restrict all outings’.
 
 The other stigma was the tendency to blame women themselves.
 
 “All respondents said they watch how they dress while commuting. More often than not, women are made to feel responsible for their harassment. It is a belief that only a certain kid of girls attract sexual harassment. A good girl is not supposed to have any such experience,” says Tripathi. 
 
 While rapes and violent assault see stern action—and rightly so, these incidents are ignored by women themselves but have an equally damaging effect on the psyche of women, he says.
 
 The worst experiences came from bus commuters.
 
 The conductor or fellow passengers elbowing women, men touching themselves or a man unabashedly masturbating around a woman. One girl, says Tripathi, didn’t use a bus for six years after a similar incident.
 
 In an auto-rickshaw, the driver could keep adjusting his rear-view mirror or keep turning back, while in a cycle rickshaw, a fellow commuter could stop nearby to touch a woman and flee.
 
 “It was shocking how these apparently little things could withdraw a girl from everyday normal life, directly affecting their social and economic participation,” says Tripathi.
 
 Does items like pepper spray help?
 
 Many respondents said they carried pepper spray with them but had never used it despite the situation demanding so.
 
 “They froze or didn’t have the guts. A few carried pocket knives too but couldn’t use them. At that moment, the instinct is to escape the situation. Self-defence or counter attack does not feature on their list. These items are only a reassurance,” says Tripathi.
 
 What next?
 
 After all findings of the survey are put together and documented, Tripathi plans to organise an expert engagement forum in July.
 
 “We will share the findings of the study with the police and transport departments, NGOs and hopefully, representatives of the government. We will then talk about what can be done. It will be a first of its kind of engagement after such a study,” says Tripathi.
 
 
