SURI: Twenty-four hours after she applied to withdraw her nomination as the sole opposition contestant in the 42-member Birbhum zilla parishad,   resurfaced on Friday beside  's district satrap   at the Bolpur party office. Prodded by Mondal, Roy cited "family reasons" as her reason to withdraw nomination as a BJP candidate and affirmed her allegiance to Trinamool Congress. 

 Before Roy's media interaction began, Mondal provided the prelude. "The allegations that she was being pressurized by our party to withdraw her nomination is baseless. She willingly withdrew her nomination after being inspired by the development initiatives of chief minister  . Her husband is an active Trinamool Congress worker. If she wants to work for our party she is welcome," he said. Roy had defected to the BJP from Trinamool Congress in January 2018. 
 
 Mondal then allowed media to ask her questions. He, however, put a clause that no question could be repeated. When asked why she withdrew her nomination, Roy said, "Due to some family reason." When reporters asked her why then she filed her nomination as a BJP candidate, she said, "I had some reasons." Roy claimed she wasn't pressurised (to withdraw her nomination) but had willingly done so. When asked whether she would join Trinamool, Mondal took the microphone to say "She was, she is and she will be in Trinamool."
 
 This wasn't all. Two panchayat samiti nominees and four gram panchayat nominees of BJP in Mohammad Bazar block have also withdrawn nominations. Among 30 BJP supporters who were arrested by police five days ago from the area, six had filed nominations. Six BJP local leaders are in police custody. Ramkrishna Roy, the BJP district president, said, "I have heard that in police custody our workers are being threatened to withdraw nominations." Abhijit Sinha, the district vice president of  , denied the allegations saying, "BJP leaders are fabricating stories because they know that finally no one will be with them. If they think so they may go to the court." Police remained unavailable for comments.
 
 A day after the Calcutta High Court stayed the ongoing panchayat election process in Bengal, the   on Friday asked officials concerned to refrain from taking any step in connection with the poll process till further instruction. "I am to request you not to take any step connected with the electoral process, including training programme till further instruction," State Election Commissioner A K Singh said in an order.
 
 Training of poll officials is being carried out to acquaint them to manage the three-day polls on May 1, 3 and 5. But reports of threat and intimidation kept pouring amid the confusion.
 
 The opposition parties had earlier questioned the five-day withdrawal process arguing it will lead to the ruling party workers threatening and intimidating opposition candidates to withdraw their nominations. The West Bengal Panchayat Elections Act 2003, however, has a holiday clause in it which has been used here. Saturday and Sunday will remain holidays and therefore the three-day withdrawal would complete on Monday. However, the election process has been stayed till April 16.
 
 
