THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister  , while reviewing his two years in office, cited cracking of notorious cases by his police as a major achievement, while admitting that 'criminal aptitude' and 'bad habits' are still gripping a section of the force. 

 
 "Our police collected scientific evidence and cracked the   case and the recent murder of the Latvian tourist. They took unbiased and strict actions even in controversial cases. But, we cannot claim 100% betterment in the force. The government is seriously looking at the bad elements prevailing in the force," said the chief minister in a statement issued on Thursday.
 
 Elaborating on government policies and achievements during the past couple of years, he said the government was particular in ensuring that resource crunch did not affect relief measures. He cited cyclone Ockhi relief and various other social welfare and development activities.
 
 "The government adopted a two-pronged strategy - short-term actions to give immediate relief to people and implementation of long-term and constructive projects for people's welfare and state's development," he said.
 
 On the formation of   ( ), 'the unprecedented model of resource mobilization outside the budget', Vijayan said government could begin projects worth Rs 20,000 crore under KIIFB in two years. 
 
 "The state is creating models and alternative policies, which are gaining international attention," he added.
 
 The government, Vijayan said, has been focusing on four aspects - elimination of corruption to build a new political, bureaucratic and administrative culture, development of basic infrastructure by removing obstacles and facilitating 'ease of doing business', strengthening of social welfare schemes and ' ', the new Kerala model of social development comprising four missions.
 
 Title deeds were distributed to 55,296 people during this period and land will be allocated to another 20,000 landless people soon, he said. 
 
 Under Ardram Mission, cath labs were set up at eight district hospitals, while 44 taluk hospitals were equipped with facilities for dialysis. Besides, under Life Mission, works of 34,553 houses were completed, Vijayan said.
 
 Haritha Keralam Mission saw rejuvenation of 9,200km stretch of rivers and streams, said Vijayan. 
 
 "People's participation was crucial in the mission, which also saw construction and renovation of a total of 16,000 ponds, recharging and renovation of around 33,500 wells," he added. 
 
