INDORE: Shaken by the rapemurder of a baby girl,   woke up to a viral tweet storm on Monday, triggered by a “blogger and model” who alleged that two bikers tried to lift her skirt as she was driving down one of Indore’s busiest roads on her scooter, and passed a lewd comment.

 
 She says she fell off her scooter in the scuffle that followed, and got injured. She posted a photo of scratches and bruises on a leg on Twitter, prompting chief minister   to ask DGP R K Shukla and Indore collector Nishant Warwade to probe the matter and submit a report. “This is shameful. Find her and immediately take action,” Chouhan tweeted in Hindi.
 
 Police registered a case under IPC Section 354 on Monday evening, after the model appeared before DIG Harinarayanachari Mishra and lodged a complaint, additional SP Manoj Rai told reporters.
 
 The survivor recently joined a group of fashion and food bloggers and was returning from an event on Sunday when she was allegedly attacked. She took to twitter to vent her agony. She alleged that she got no help from onlookers.
 
 
 
 
 One of her tweets said: “What I want to wear is my ******* choice. Those guys don't have any right to harass me because WEARING A SKIRT DOESN'T GIVE YOU A RIGHT TO BEHAVE LIKE THAT. An uncle who came to help me after my fall said, "it's because you're wearing a skirt!" I've never been so offended.”
 
 Another tweet said that she was “speechless and numb”, but decided to go live on Instagram and talk about it. As her posts went viral, police scrambled to try and identify her. The DIG also tweeted, asking for the woman to contact him. “We will act as soon as we get a complaint,” he told TOI.The CM also encouraged her to contact police.
 
 Praising her courage, he tweeted: “I and my entire administration are sworn to help you. We will find the men responsible and give you justice. Help police in identifying them,” he said. The model met the city SP on Monday evening and tweeted her thanks to the CM, DGP and other police officers. “I should have gone to the police yesterday only. They were so cooperative; I wish our media handled it so well too,” she tweeted. The survivor’s statements were recorded at the DIG office where she reached with some social activists, including Vyapam whistleblower Dr Anand Rai. “She was worried that she’d have to appear before police and courts, thus affecting her daily life,” Rai said.
 
 Mahila police station in-charge Jyoti Sharma took her to the location she described — in front of a popular fast-food joint.
 
 “We are trying to collect CCTV grabs from the eatery and other places to identify the accused,” ASP Rai said. Although she had said that she couldn’t find any CCTV cameras when she revisited the spot on her own, police say the entire area is under CCTV coverage and they going through the footage to identify the accused. While taking down her statement, officers advised her that she should have approached police through Dial 100 immediately.
 
