NAGPUR: The strike by drivers and owners of cab aggregators   and Uber failed to make much impact in the city on Monday.

 Over 300 drivers and owners, under the banner of  , had launched a daylong peaceful agitation at RBI Square on Monday protesting against mismanagement of the aggregators.
 
 Chandan  , who led the stir, alleged   showed big dreams by promising a guaranteed business of Rs1 lakh per month to drivers. “However, now this promise has turned out to be a mirage. Even after remaining online for 15 hours, we are not getting more than Rs15,000-20,000 per month. This is despite the fact that there is huge demand for cabs in the city,” said Gupta.
 
 Long driving hours has also affected many drivers who are now facing health problems. “There are at least 7,000 cabs in the city procured by drivers on finance with the promise by Ola-Uber about handsome gains. Now many drivers are even unable to pay loan instalments,” said Gupta.
 
 The cab drivers sitting on dharna demanded Ola-Uber management to fulfil the promise of Rs1 lakh per month income and fares based on the car model.
 
 They also demanded withdrawal of over 400 Ola-Uber cars which have been pushed by the company on city roads depriving business opportunity to cab owners. The drivers also alleged favouritism in ratings.
 
 On the contrary, Ola spokesperson told TOI that barring Mumbai the strike failed to make much impact in other cities. “Necessary steps have been taken to ensure protection of the passengers,” the spokesperson said. He added there were many drivers who were earning better than what they used to earn earlier. “A majority of the drivers are blacklisted and removed by the app-based taxi companies owing to poor ratings by customers,” the spokesperson added.
 
 However, agitating drivers countered the claim by saying they have been rated poor to promote cabs owned by the companies.
 
 “We have been getting warning messages from Ola and Uber that those participating in the strike will be blacklisted,” said drivers.
 
 
