This year hasn't really started on a good note for Delhi's polo enthusiasts, who were looking forward to the spring season of polo in February. Since the Delhi government has decided to ban the entry and exit of horses in the city due to the spread of   disease, there are high chances that the four weeks of polo tournaments lined up for next month at Jaipur Polo Grounds will be cancelled. Glanders is an infectious disease primarily affecting horses. It is transferable and equally dangerous to humans. The disease is commonly contracted by consuming food or water contaminated with nasal discharge of the carrier animals.

  Although there hasn't been any official announcement regarding the cancellation of the polo matches, it is unlikely that they will take place as scheduled, since the horses can't travel from places like Jaipur, Jodhpur or even Gurgaon. So there won’t be enough horses for the players. "There is no restriction on practice sessions or on exercising of horses, so those activities are taking place as planned. But having a tournament will be a problem if the fear of Glanders disease continues for the next 10 days. Players and horses mostly travel from Rajasthan and Haryana for the polo season in Delhi, and since the movement of horses will be banned in and out of the city border, no horses can enter Delhi from other cities," says polo player  . He adds that the final decision regarding the matches scheduled for next month will be taken in a day or two.
 
 
 
  
  
 
  The first polo match of this year took place last Sunday at the Jaipur Polo Grounds. It was an exhibition match and the number of horses required for it was limited. "This match was possible as no players were travelling from other cities, but for polo tournaments that continue for a week or so in Delhi, there are players coming from places like Jaipur and Jodhpur with their horses. Even they would avoid coming to the city now since the safety of horses is a priority and no one would want to take the risk," says  , a polo player who returned to the Polo Grounds after a year’s break. Avshreya adds that her last match was "probably the first and last for the season."
 
 
  
  (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam
 
 
  The Delhi Spring Polo season takes place in February and every year, there are nearly three to four tournaments scheduled around this time. This year, polo matches were scheduled from February 5-March 11 in Delhi. "There are still 10-12 days when we can wait, but as of now, it looks like that all polo matches would be cancelled. There is no official statement on the cancellation of the matches and no meeting has taken place so far to take a decision on this," says polo player Adhiraj Singh. Polo player Amir Zorawar Singh Pasrich says that despite a ban on the entry and exit of horses, even polo clubs are keeping a check on the entry of horses from areas outside Delhi. "This is serious and the disease is contagious, so it is better to keep the horses safe. Even within Delhi, there is a strict check on the entry of any horses from outside. We don’t know if the ban will be lifted by February or not, but even if it is lifted, we don’t know if polo tournaments will still take place as planned," says Amir.
 
 
  
 
