CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and   high court has asked the both the states to explain the provision made to ensure that the   cameras installed in the police stations of both the states would continue functioning in case of power failure.

 “The additional chief secretaries (home) to the two state governments, would file affidavits with regard to the provision for power back up, to ensure that the cameras continue functioning 24 hours for all 365 days, even in case of electricity failure, otherwise this court foresees a very convenient excuse available to the local police to get out of producing CCTV footage as and when required,” ordered the HC.
 
 Justice Amol Rattan   has passed these orders on March 6 while hearing an ongoing matter related to illegal detention of persons in the police custody and related issues.
 
 Justice Singh appreciated DGP Haryana and the state authorities for speeding up the process of installing CCTV cameras in police stations of Haryana. Out of 308 police stations in the state, all entry and exit points in 305 police stations have already been covered by CCTV cameras, as also at all the entry and exit points of the   staff premises, with only 3 police stations which are still under construction left to be covered.
 
 HC, however, has asked the managing director/executive director of the Punjab Information and Communication Technology Corporation Limited, to explain the reasons for taking more than 4.5 months for just installing the cameras at the police stations and CIA staff premises. The Punjab government has already released the requisite funds for this purpose.
 
 The matter would now come up for hearing on Tuesday.
 
 Earlier in August 2017, the HC had ordered both the states to install close CCTV cameras on all the entry and exit points of all the police stations. After the HC orders, both the states had initiated the process of installing CCTV cameras. While Haryana has around 308 police stations, there are around 406 police stations in Punjab.
 
 The court had also ordered to install CCTV cameras on all the CIA police stations of both the states observing that allegations were leveled on an almost daily basis, especially in the cases related to Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) against CIA staff of both the states for illegal confinement of persons.
 
 
