NEW DELHI: Next time you visit a monument of national importance, be sure to swipe your card or use a mobile wallet to pay for the entry. The Archaeological Survey of India ( ), through a recent notification, has sought to make entry to all the 116 ticketed   and world heritage sites under its purview cheaper — all you need to do is go “cashless”. Soon, you could save up to Rs 50 per person. 

 According to the notification, under the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains (Amendment) Rules, 2017, entry fee for category A monuments — which are world heritage sites — under the cashless mode will be Rs 35; if you go for cash, you will have to pay the old rate of Rs 40 per person. This applies to both Indians and visitors from Saarc nations. However, for Red Fort, cash payment would mean a fee of Rs 50. 
 
 Foreigners will get a discount of Rs 50 and, therefore, pay Rs 550 as entrance fee; they will continue to be charged Rs 600 if the payment is made through cash. Those who avail of special facilities for category A monuments will pay Rs 800 for a cashless transaction, or Rs 850 in cash.
 
  
  
 Category B includes other popular ticketed monuments, such as Safdarjung Tomb,   and Akbar’s Tomb. For these monuments, a cashless transaction will get you a Rs 5 discount over the normal price of Rs 25. Similarly, foreigners will need to pay Rs 300 in cash, and Rs 250 if they go cashless. For availing additional facilities, they will need to shell out Rs 400 in cash, but going cashless will fetch them a Rs 50 discount. In many cases, the rates are inclusive of entry to museums inside. 
 
 The move is in tune with the Modi government’s emphasis on a “cashless economy”, where digital payments via credit/debit cards, mobile wallets or payment gateways are being encouraged. Experts expect a huge surge in cashless transactions at centrally protected monuments once the notification is enforced. However, cashless payment could be a problem for scores of people who come visiting from remote areas and are more comfortable with cash, or have no access to the digital modes.
 
 “Not everyone has access to cards or mobile wallets, especially in rural areas where people believe only in cash. These visitors may feel cheated that they are being asked to pay more,” said an industry expert.
 
 
