CHANDIGARH: The city medical aspirants vying for a spot in All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) can now heave a sigh of relief as Chandigarh will become a center for online exam and the quota of seats will also be increased, this academic year. The city students will no longer have to travel to the far-off states to take the examination. Moreover, the announcement of two new branches of   (in Guntur and Nagpur) opening up from the new academic session has paved way for 100 more seats to compete for, thus more opportunities for students. However, there is still no clarification in similar perictiles (tie break) system as the board has given two different methods in its prospectus. This year the exam will be conducted on two days in four different shifts — two on each day. Thus, the whole cluster of students will be divided into four different batches.

 Dr  , a biology expert said, “The move to open two new AIIMS by government has added 100 MBBS seats which is a welcome move but holding an entrance exam of such repute in different shifts is unfair for the students. It is practically impossible to formulate four sets of question papers with similar difficulty level and thus deprives the students of a level playing field. Moreover, the AIIMS authorities are not providing answer keys and aren’t ready to entertain objections created out of any discrepancy in the key. AIIMS MBBS entrance should also be transparent like that of NEET UG.”
 
 The expectations of students for a slot are higher as they are of the view that it will be easier to grab a berth as there are four different question papers and if the trends are to be believed, there is a difference in level of difficulty of every paper.
 
 Rose Chanchal, a medical student of Government Girls Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 20 said, “I hope that my companions get the slot before me so that I can enquire about the difficulty level as this exam is immensely crucial.”
 
 Manasvi Arya, a student of SD Public School, Sector 32, said, “I am relieved that at the very least we have a center in Chandigarh. There is still uncertainty over the tie break system. In one place they have mentioned that GK will be included and in another place it has not been mentioned.”
 
 The AIIMS authorities opened the registrations on Monday. The addition of two more AIIMS will take the tally of AIIMS institutions to 9. Each of the new institutes will offer 50 seats.
 
 Around 800 seats are up for grabs but application of normalization procedure to determine cut-off for corresponding percentiles in final result will also be pivotal.
 
 Kunal Singh, a physics expert, explained the factors which will affect the result of AIIMS. “Syllabus is certainly a deciding factor. The AIIMS authorities haven’t specified syllabus of any particular board which opens the possibilities for a wide variety of topics including the ones not present in CBSE or boards of other states. NEET questions are generally to the point, syllabus-oriented, lucid and rational while the paper pattern of AIIMS is conglomerate, entangled as well as inter-weaved which encircles multiple concepts of physics requiring interpretation and logical sequencing considering negative marking scheme . Furthermore, it also includes 10 questions of general knowledge and 10 of reasoning which is also a deciding factor in ascertaining the top 1,000 of the country who are jostling for an MBBS seat. The technical glitches issue raised by many aspirants on social media has also not been resolved yet,” he said.
 
 
