MUMBAI: In a development that could have repercussions on Maharashtra politics, Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief   is keen on roping in Shiv   in her proposed front to take on the   in the 2019 elections, it is learnt. 

 The front would keep a distance from the Congress, which too plans to stitch up an anti-BJP alliance under  's leadership. Mamata has already spoken to Telangana CM K Chandrashekhar Rao. She plans to sound out Thackeray and DMK leader M K Stalin on the issue.
 
 Two weeks ago, there were reports from Sena sources about Thackeray receiving a call from Telugu Desam Party (TDP) chief Chandrababu Naidu. But TDP sources denied the reports. However, the Sena maintained-not on record, though-that TDP's denial was part of a "larger strategy". The key question is whether Sena president   would accept Mamata's leadership, experts said.
 
 Mamata spoke to Thackeray twice over the phone in the last two months, a Sena functionary said on Tuesday, adding, "These are preliminary talks. She is ready to launch a regional front and she is keen that the Sena join her."
 
  Thackeray is yet to decide if he would go to Kolkata to meet her or invite her here. "It's undecided yet," he said. "Uddhav-ji would like if it is the other way round," he remarked.
 
 Thackeray has already announced that his party would go solo for the next elections. This may have fuelled TMC's hopes of goading the Sena, which has 63 assembly seats in a 288-strong house, into joining the front to fight BJP, said political analysts.
 
 But Thackeray will have to make up his mind if he wants to snap ties with the NDA in the next polls, they added.
 
 State BJP strategists are not willing to take Thackeray seriously on his solo soliloquy. They say Matoshree isn't quite serious about parting ways with the BJP. "All talks of joining Mamata's federal front could be part of Sena's pressure tactics. They obviously want more assembly seats from us. Actually, the Sena wouldn't mind piggybacking on Narendra Modi's popularity during Lok Sabha elections, while in the state, they would want to go solo so that they need not give us a share in the seats. But, this is not in keeping with the alliance ethos. An alliance partner can't have best of both worlds," said a BJP veteran.
 
 Thackeray may as of now enjoy the attention which the TMC has lavished on him, but he will have to take a firm stand on the BJP, he pointed out.
 
 
