PATNA: The state police headquarters has sent a revised proposal to the home department with details of required human resources and financial requirements to revive the information technology (IT) cadre of Bihar Police. The state home department in its annual budget for 2018-19 fiscal has earmarked Rs194 crore for the purpose.

 “The proposal has been received and is under consideration. The decision will be announced once a final call is taken,” principal secretary (home) Amir Subhani told TOI over phone on Saturday.
 
 Sources said Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Assam and some other states have their own   for modernizing the police force and digitalization. In addition, policemen working in the IT cadre counter cybercrime and upkeep online police records.
 
 According to sources, the state crime records bureau (SCRB) on February 1 this year sent a fresh proposal to police headquarters on the requirements to raise the IT cadre for Bihar police. “The proposed cadre will have 4,413 police officers and personnel, including 24 inspectors, 217 sub-inspectors, 1,064 assistant sub-inspectors and 3,107 constables,” sources said. They said the IT cadre, once raised, would be at the helm of crime and criminal tracking network and systems (CCTNS) in state. Work on CCTNS is underway.
 
 “For selection in constabulary, one must have passed Intermediate with mathematics and should hold ’O’ level certification in computer or diploma in computer engineering or IT or electronics engineering. Subsequently, s/he will be promoted as per experience,” sources said.
 
 The annual budget of the IT cadre is proposed to be around Rs194.55 crore and its personnel would be trained once in a year at district level training centres to be set up for the purpose. “The home department had asked the police headquarters to send budget proposal according to the 7th Pay Commission,” they said.
 
 “The concept of an IT cadre in Bihar police was first mooted in April 2015 but all efforts to raise it have so far been confined to a file only,” sources said and added that a proposal was made in February last year to hire 1,669 data operators and 64 programmers through BELTRON for the police department on contract basis as immediate solution.
 
 “However, CM Nitish Kumar sternly scrapped the idea at a review meeting on November 1 last year with directive not to hire any private person on contract for police department as it will give rise to corruption,” a senior IPS officer said.
 
 
