HYDERABAD: The   will elect its next general secretary on Sunday, the concluding day of the ongoing 22nd party Congress, a day after its political resolution incorporated the Sitaram Yechury-led ‘minority view’ of keeping doors open for a strategic understanding with   brightening the chances of his re-election to the top post.

 
 While concluding the Congress, the CPM will also formally announce to hold a protest — Mazdoor-Kisan Sangharsh rally — in the national capital on September 5, which was approved unanimously during the deliberations at the meet.
 
 Even though  ,   member and front-runner for the top job, dismissed questions about any change in leadership as “irrelevant”, sources said the elections could still throw up surprise in the light of the rift that still persists within the party.
 
 The election is scheduled to be held in the forenoon after the election of the new members of the Central Committee and Politburo. The names of MA Baby,   and BV Raghavulu besides Karat have been doing the rounds for being in contention for the top post.
 
 Despite assertions that the political-tactical line adopted at the party Congress is a collective view of the CPM, signs of discomfort were clear in the party. Responding to questions whether Yechury’s ‘minority draft’ had triumphed over the Central Committee’s (read Prakash Karat’s) ‘majority view’, Brinda Karat said, “The party resolution was moved by the Central Committee. Those paragraphs on which there were differences were redrafted in an agreed manner. So I won’t say any one was accepted or rejected. I will say it was redrafted. And the ‘fresh draft’ that has emerged is a very clear enunciation of the political line of the CPM.”
 
 Accepting the differences of opinion, she acknowledged that the political organisational report tabled at the party Congress had directed the Politburo to “work as a cohesive. Seeking to play down the rift and attributing it to inner-party democracy, Brinda said, “CPM is not a monolithic, one-thought party. It has a culture of discussion and debate.”
 
