NOIDA:   hired by a developer allegedly thrashed a group of   organising a demonstration in Noida Extension demanding registration of their homes and basic amenities in the compound.

 The residents of   Homes, which is building a project with 1,700 flats, alleged they were beaten up and threatened with dire consequences if they continued with their protest on Saturday. The developer, however, accused the protesters of manhandling his staff.
 
 Sources said the group of 50-60 residents had staged the protest demanding immediate installation of the fire-safety mechanism. They were also demanding that their flats be registered at the earliest as they had paid the money.
 
 Sujoy Nandy, a   buyer, said the developer had promised to build a swimming pool, club, gymnasium, party hall and other infrastructure at the time of booking homes.
 
 “None of these basic facilities have been delivered yet. On Saturday morning, the residents were holding a peaceful protest when the Ajnara officials accompanied with around 10 goons snatched the banners from our hands and thrashed some of the residents,” Nandy alleged.
 
 Rishab Mehrotra, another protester, claimed a few goons tried to choke his throat.
 
 The protesters intensified the agitation after the alleged assault and shouted slogans against the Ajnara officials. In the afternoon, they also went and filed a complaint at Bisrakh police station.
 
 Ajnara officials, however, gave a different version.
 
 Sudhir Chaudhury, the AGM of Ajnara Homes, said that the maintenance department had organised a meeting on the premises on Saturday morning when the residents intervened.
 
 “A group of residents barged in and assaulted the staff. The maintenance staff reacted in a similar manner, leading to an unpleasant situation. We immediately called the police,” he said.
 
 Chaudhury said the swimming pool would be ready by March. “We are working to deliver on the promises we had made. The swimming pool will be handed over to the residents in two months. The club will be ready by June. We are not charging the residents for facilities that are not in use right now,” he said.
 
 Ajay Kumar Sharma, the SHO of Bisrakh police station, said that a police team had reached the spot after receiving information about the alleged assault. “We questioned both the two parties and called them over to the police station. We are probing all angles,” he said.
 
 
