JAIPUR: Coming down heavily on Vasundhara Raje-led   government in Rajasthan, Pradesh Congress committee chief   on Saturday said there is evident lack of coordination between the state and the Centre government. He alleged that BJP is facing credibility crisis which is why they have not been able to finalise the state BJP chief till now.

 On completion of four years of Narendra Modi-led BJP government, Pilot took a dig at BJP government in the state as well and said, “I believe Vasundhara Raje-led BJP government is ahead of Modi government when it comes to such betrayal. Nearly 150 farmers have committed suicide, still the state government does not express concern over it. I am going through news reports which say that the government has no money and cannot waive off farmer’s loan.”
 
 He added, “It is a pity that the government has money to spend on installing fountains in front of ministers’ bungalows and on events like Resurgent Rajasthan but not for farmers,” Pilot said. He said the state government faces several corruption allegations. “The accused in mining scam were reinstated. More than 450 mining leases were cancelled, still not a single office has been held responsible for the scam,” he added. Under BJP governance people are witnessing examination papers leak, no generation of employment and atrocities on Dalits and minorities are on the rise, he said.
 
 Pilot alleged that BJP was facing infighting among its leaders. “There is a credibility crisis in BJP and one can see lack of coordination between Raje-led government in the state and Modi-led government at the Centre. People have made up their mind to say goodbye to the state government,” he said. In contrast, Pilot said, Congress leaders are united and focused on winning the next assembly elections in Rajasthan.
 
 “We have good leaders and only BJP is creating some confusion. As per tradition, Congress in Rajasthan will announce who will get what post after the election results are declared,” he said on a question if Congress in state has a problem of plenty when it comes to deciding the face of the party for the next assembly election. “No one is above the party,” he added.
 
 Speaking about Congress workers misbehaving with the party’s national spokesperson Sandeep Singh Chaudhary, he said strict action will be taken against guilty.
 
