Nagpur: After private hospitals, the first large-scale blood and urine tests done by a government hospital on   villagers in Yavatmal have shown a high number of cases with   problems. The tests were done by a team from Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Nagpur, at Yavatmal.

 The GMCH team had taken blood and urine samples of 96 villagers on March 22. Of them, high creatinine was found in 20 persons. The average level was 2.5 to 3 mg/dl in them, as against a desirable level of 1.5 mg/dl. “Creatinine level in blood is one of the indicators of kidney functioning,” said GMCH dean Dr Manish Shirgiriwar. 
 
 Another 20 persons were found with high serum urea content of over 40%. “A correlation between cases of high creatinine and serum urea content is yet to be established. Some of the cases may be overlapping too. The analysis will be done before submitting the report to government in the coming week,” Shirgiriwar told TOI. He accepted that the numbers were on the higher side. 
 
 “Also, 10 patients were found to be already suffering from chronic kidney disorder (CKD). There were four cases of diabetes and 15 of hypertension,” said Shirgiriwar. 
 
 Asola village is suspected to be endemic to kidney ailments. It was in news last month after a local pathologist Anil Rathore complained to the district collector that 14 deaths had occurred in the village due to kidney failure over the last seven years. Rathore claims that he tested blood of 171 persons and found 61 with high creatinine level.
 
 Considering the findings in Asola, the Nephrological Society of Nagpur, an association of kidney experts, has planned to conduct a case study of the area. The doctors find it to be a suspected case of chronic kidney disorder of unknown origin (CKDU). This means that even as kidney ailments are being reported in the area, it is not due to any known cause. 
 
 There are CKDU pockets all over the world like Sri Lanka, America, and Andhra Pradesh in India, said the doctors. They suspect that high use of pesticides may also be one of the reasons for kidney problems in Yavatmal. 
 
 The nephrologists held a meeting on Sunday to decide the methodology of the research. “A pro forma will be put up before the research and ethics committee of the GMCH for its approval. This would be a long process and may take at least six months to come to a conclusion,” Dr Sameer Chaube, president of nephrologists society, told TOI.
 
 No govt facility for dialysis in Yavatmal: Despite a high number of kidney ailment cases reaching the hospitals in Yavatmal, there is no government facility to conduct dialysis in the district, said dean of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) Dr Manish Shirgiriwar. “The patients have to be referred to Nagpur and many cannot even afford the travel cost,” he said.
 
 Shirgiriwar said apart from Asola, the hospital also gets considerable cases of kidney ailments from other pockets of the district like Pandharkawda, Zari Zamni and Ghatanji. This was also accepted by other doctors present in the nephorolgists’ meet held on Sunday.
 
 The doctors pointed out incidences of kidney problems in pockets of Akola and Amravati districts too, due to presence of hard water.
 
 
