 is prepared to report its fourth quarter results today. In addition to key factors, such as profitability, gross non-performing loans, loan growth and provisions review on the controversy around chief executive officer   is awaited. In the meeting that will be held to approve the bank’s March quarter earnings, shareholders expect the bank board to clarify on conflict-of-interest allegations raised against Kochhar.

 Investors will look forward to the provisions the bank makes with regard to non-performing loans (NPLs). This is pretty similar to another private sector banking major, Axis Bank that reported a net loss of Rs 21.8 billion for the quarter ended March 2018, as non-performing assets (NPAs) increased and provisions for bad loans jumped three times over the same quarter last year.
 
 Moreover, the numbers will be go up against because of the   (CBI) registering a preliminary enquiry (PE) against ICICI Bank Managing Director (MD) and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Chanda Kochhar's husband  , officials of the Videocon group and others to determine there has been malpractices involving the sanctioning of Rs 32.5 billion loan to the Videocon Group by the ICICI Bank as part of a consortium of banks in 2012.
 
 On a year-to-date basis, the stock has dropped by 9 percent and has underperformed the   Bank index that earned nearly 1 percent in this period, ACE Equity data shows. In comparison, the Nifty50 index is also up 1 percent year to date.
 
 ICICI Bank is likely to report a drop in its fiscal fourth-quarter because of higher scope for bad loans. As per a poll of 18 analysts carried out by Bloomberg, the bank is expected to announce a profit of Rs 1,060 crore for the March quarter. In the December quarter, the bank had reported a net profit of Rs 1,650 crore. Increase in bad loans and provisioning for accounts referred under   is expected to keep the credit cost higher. But, the bank’s pre-provisioning operation profit for the fourth quarter is helped by a rise in non-interest income, which is likely to gain from ICICI Bank’s stake sale in ICICI Securities.
 
