 of Hyderabad by day,   writer and Urdu poet by night,  , IRS, straddles two diverse worlds indeed. the 1990 batch officer admits that he loves number crunching, but it’s the lafz (words) and the beher (meter) of Urdu that have him enslaved. 

 “I am a Hyderabadi; my entire schooling has been in Urdu. so it’s only natural that I turn to Urdu whenever I need to find expression,” says the proud alumnus of Osmania University.
 
 Recently, Faheem penned down five ghazals, which will soon be brought to life by singers such as Manjari Nair, Altamash Faridi and Anwesha Dutta. this isn’t his first musical venture though. the officer has previously released an album with eight ghazals on unrequited love in 2015.
 
 “Very few people actually write Urdu poetry seriously. It’s not as easy as people make it out to be. Urdu poetry isn’t just about penning down some thoughts,” he says, explaining that Urdu, has over 300 formats of rhyme and meter. “Nowadays people restrict themselves to two-three formats. 
 
 Their practice of Urdu poetry follows a samaat, which means a ‘listening format’. So they force their thoughts and words to fit popular poetry formats, even if it does little justice to the emotions. The result is very ineffective and verbose poetry,” says Faheem, who spent close to 30 years learning the various formats and mastering the art of ghazal writing. Bahere Mizaare, Bahre Mujattis, Bahre Kaamil are some of the formats he uses predominantly. 
 
 His passion for words has its roots in his thirst for history, says Faheem. “It never started with poetry. I was fascinated with the language in its early forms which go back to over a 100 years ago. Back then, Urdu was the language even for the government, so a major part of the many years I served in the tax department saw me sifting through legal and government texts from the Nizam’s era in Urdu.”
 
 Faheem possesses a rare collection of government documents like the ‘Taziraat-e-Gwalior’, or Penal code of Gwalior formulated in 1895, which he collected when he was serving as the Narcotics commissioner from 2008-11, a copy of the infamous ‘Ibn Battuta’ in Urdu, and a rare collection of lectures on Indian Education from the year 1857, in Urdu. 
 
 Faheem has also translated two works — Asghar Veloori’s Rubaiyat from Urdu to English and former Indian ambassador to Saudi Arabia, 
 Mahmoudin Mohammed’s Fantasia to Urdu. 
 
 
 
 
 With Urdu being declared as an official language for the state of Telangana in 2017, Faheem is glad the language would get its due at last. However, he claims that without the language finding a place in the academia and public in general doing a serious study of the same, chances of a fruitful survival are limited. 
 
 “Survival of any language depends on government support. So a language policy supported by government is very important as only oral culture can’t take it forward,” says Faheem. He also laments that most Urdu researchers focus on famous Urdu poets like Iqbal and Ghalib. 
 
 “Urdu won't flourish if we keep it centred around shayari and ghazals of Iqbal and Ghalib and an analysis of their poetry. We need more doctoral researches on topics like ‘Urdu and Employment’, or how Urdu dictionaries haven’t been open to newer words etc.,” says Faheem, adding that language experts in the city have failed to do justice to the language and contribute to its prosperity. 
 
 “The Urdu language experts in the city, the academics and others must ask themselves, are they really doing justice to the language from their end?”
 
