PANAJI: Consistent raids and seizure of narcotics since August 2017 has ebbed the inflow of drugs into Goa this season, said anti-narcotics cell (ANC) SP Umesh Gaonkar.

 Since August 2017, the ANC and local police conducted several independent raids. “We conducted the first raid in August. Since then there has been no stopping. There is less drug flowing into Goa this season,” said Gaonkar.
 
 A crackdown on night parties, he said, has also culminated into less drugs coming into Goa. “There has been a strict watch, I myself conduct visits along the coastal belt to check the scene,” he said. Since August 2017 till date, the ANC has booked 30 cases, arrested 142 persons and seized drugs worth Rs 2 crore. 
 
 While no hard data is available, the police say once the tourist season kickstarts, the supply of drugs into Goa increases. Party drugs are in demand during weekends, but repeated raids has made a dent in the trade. A Calangute shop owner, on the condition of anonymity, said, “I don’t know how much the inflow of drugs has dropped, but availability has certainly reduced as there is a fear factor that has come into play.”
 
 The ANC chief said they had instructions from chief minister   not to spare anyone; so along with the big peddlers and dealers, small peddlers who are themselves consumers were also nabbed. “In the past, small peddlers (consumers) were left untouched, but it is not the case anymore. We are nabbing anyone found with drugs,” said Gaonkar.
 
 Of the two recent big raids, one was by Narcotic Control Bureau (NCB) in the last week of December, where ecstasy pills worth Rs 6 lakh were seized from two persons from Mangaluru, Karnataka. 
 
 Last week, Anjuna police arrested a 56-year-old French national,  , allegedly carrying drugs worth Rs 4.5 lakh at Chapora. It was considered a big catch by Anjuna police.
 
 Gaonkar said the activeness shown by the police in booking drug cases has helped impact the trade. Another police official said besides ganja and charas, there has been significant seizures of psychedelic substances. Earlier last month, Pernem police arrested two German nationals after they were found in possession of 64g of LSD worth Rs 64 lakh. The drugs were seized in a raid at a guesthouse in Arambol.
 
 
