LUDHIANA: Uncertainty looms over the fate of about 700 aspiring sportsperson and students of SCD Government College, as the institute’s ground may be rented out to a private cricket coaching centre. The centre has approached the college to sign an MoU for three years under which its ground, where the students of physical education and different sports wings practise, would be rented out.

 The college authorities, alumni association and students are united against the decision. Sources said pressure was being built on the institute for signing the MoU by senior officers of the higher education department.
 
 On Tuesday, the alumni association wrote to education minister   and handed over a memorandum. The association shared the achievements of students with the minister and asked her to stop renting of the college ground. Executive member of the association   said, “I have talked to alumni, including prominent personalities like former Union minister   and J&K Governor NN Vohra. We will try our best to save the ground. This college has produced many national and international players, and renting out the ground will be injustice to students.”
 
 A college official said, “The private coaching centre had approached a senior officer in Chandigarh to pressurise the college principal to sign the MoU.”
 
 Principal   said, “The college has been approached to sign the MoU, though we are not in favour of it as it will affect our aspiring players.” He refused to comment when asked if he was under pressure. 
 
 We practise at Guru Nanak Stadium once in a day. But for basic fitness and further practice, we need this ground. I am a student under sports wing. What will be the significance of sports wing if there is no ground.
 
 
 
 
 National-level volleyball player and BA-III student
 
 I am from   and have taken admission under sports quota. This college has produced many national and international-level players. Our future is based on the decision of the government. We hope they will spare a thought for us.
 
 
 
 
 National-level handball player and student of BA-I
 
 700 practise
 
 The college has 700 students who practise on the ground. It has around 50 national-level players for different games.
 
 The achievements 
 
 Basketball: The college team has been winning inter-college tournament consecutively for the past 10 years. Three students are in the state team and played nationals. Student   has been selected for World Universities tournament.
 
 Handball: The college team was second in   inter-college tournament in 2017. Besides, six college students were in the state team who played and won second prize in the all-India inter-university tournament.
 
 Volleyball: The team was second in Panjab University inter-college tournament and two players participated in all-India inter-university tournament in 2017.
 
 
