NEW DELHI: A 29-year-old   killed her  ,   his body and then attempted suicide at her house in   in outer Delhi. The horrific act was discovered on Friday morning by her husband, who found her sitting on the floor with the body of the baby on her lap,   and  .

 The woman, Sarika, apparently was under treatment for behavioural disorder at Lady Hardinge Hospital for some years now. Her shocked husband, Hari Shankar, said that she had   their elder son four years ago when he was two months old. “She had smothered the baby by sitting on his chest. I was shocked, but realised she was ailing and took her for medical treatment,” said Shankar, who is a vegetable vendor at a market near Janki Vihar.
 
 Family members claimed that Sarika, though regular with her hospital appointments, had also begun of late to visit a tantrik. They suspected he might have talked her into the gruesome act. On Thursday night, Shankar returned late in the evening and found the door to their single-room house in the slum cluster at Aman Vihar’s W Block locked from inside. He called to Sarika a few times and then went to his parent’s house nearby where he found his daughters sleeping.
 
 Early on Friday morning, he returned home. When Sarika did not respond to his shouts, he climbed a wall into their room and was stunned to see her sitting with the body of Chirag, their son. “She had severed his head and smashed it with a pestle. She had also ripped open the stomach. She probably tried to kill herself too and had stabbed herself a few times,” said Shankar.
 
 Hearing Shankar’s shouts, his parents and neighbours reached the spot and took the woman to Sanjay Gandhi Hospital nearby. Doctors suspect the woman might have been suffering from postpartum depression and psychosis. Chirag’s body was sent for an autopsy and will be handed over to the family on Saturday. M N Tiwari, DCP (Outer), said, “We have registered a case of murder and initiated a probe. The woman will be counselled once she regains her mental health.”
 
 The husband said he had not been overly angry with his wife after the murder of the first son because the doctors had explained her condition. “She used to behave normally with other family members, but constantly assailed our two daughters,” said Shankar. “That is why I frequently asked my parents to look after them in their house.”
 
 He had married Sarika, the daughter of a family friend, a decade ago. The couple had been trying to have a son for five years till the birth of their first son. “We named him Babu. When he died, we did not inform the police because we thought he had choked while suckling,” said Shankar. “It was only later that Sarika told me she had smothered him to death. I was too shocked to react, and later sought medical help for her.”
 
