Vijayawada: YSRC chief Y S Jaganmohan Reddy led a huge crowd as he entered Vijayawada, the political epicentre of Andhra Pradesh, on Saturday, as part of his “Praja Sankalpam” padayatra. Jagan resumed his 136th-day padayatra, in Tadepalli and entered the city after walking about a kilometre on the Kanaka Durga Varadi, across river Krishna, on the Kolkata-Chennai national highway. 

 Ending the yatra in the neighbouring Guntur district, Jagan entered along with Telugu Desam Party’s (TDP) former MLA Yalamanchili Ravi who switched to YSRC on Saturday. 
 
 Ravi, backed by a contingent of his own supporters, the Vijayawada East Assembly constituency, welcomed Jagan along with other YSRC senior leaders of the party including Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy, Botsa Satyanarayana, K P Saradhi, Vangaveeti Radhakrishna. 
 
 Addressing a largely gathered crowd at Chittinagar junction in Vijayawada West Assembly constituency, Jagan reiterated his charges against the TDP and CM Chandrababu Naidu. he alleged that the TDP supremo had encouraged huge corruption, protected his party leaders involved in several criminal and corruption cases. He also alleged that the CM had spent four years in making 39 foreign visits and promising the unrealistic world to the people of Andhra. 
 
 The YSRC leader also found fault with Naidu promising Amaravati as an international city and wanted to know why he built his own house in Hyderabad if he was confident of building Amaravati city. Dubbing Amaravati plan as completely bogus and a distant dream scripted with corruption, he took exception to the government giving false projections of growth rate, which was several times more than the growth rate of India and even that of US.
 
 “On one side, CM Chandrababu Naidu says Andhra is ahead of several states in India, but on the other side, he has been saying that AP needs a helping hand,” he said and asked which development is exactly the CM claiming about. He also took a dig at Naidu’s proposed day-long fast on April 20 and dubbed it as a new drama and that it won’t be helping the state even a bit to get the Special Category Status (SCS) or any of the demands.
 
 While Jagan's programme went ahead hassle-free, denizens demanded flexis and banners must not be covering the entire city during such events as they are amde of harmful chemicals.
 
 
