Coimbatore: M Sabitha, a Class XII student hailing from a small village Kaaliyur near Mettupalayam, wouldn’t have ever dreamed of a trip to Japan. But today she is all set to fly to Tokyo, thanks to excellence in academics and her passion for science.

 Sabitha is part of a delegation of 33 students and six teachers from across the country selected for the pan-Asia youth exchange programme in science, also known as SAKURA exchange programme in science. She is among the six students selected from Tamil Nadu.
 
 “This is the happiest moment in my life. In my family, i am the first person to travel overseas. I am very scared to take a flight, but I am glad that my teacher will be with me,” Sabitha said. Aiming to be a doctor, science has always fascinated Sabitha, a student of Velliangadu Government Higher Secondary School.
 
 “I come from a tribal village and getting educated itself is a biggest achievement. But my teachers always motivated me to aim big and I am glad that I am living up to their expectations,” she added.
 
 C R Maheshwari, who would accompany the six students from Tamil Nadu, has been working with the Velliangadu Government Higher Secondary School for over a decade. She said the school once had only 350 students and lacked basic amenities.
 
 “In the past few years, we have developed labs and smart classes using sponsorship and public goodwill,” she said. She has the best average in the district among the physics teachers. “This achievement is not just ours, but goes to everyone in the school. So far, six students have got into the Vellore Institute of Technology, two have become doctors. We hope we will also shape future administrators,” Maheshwari said.
 
 While the ministry of human resources development would sponsor the trip from New Delhi, school teachers have a tough time managing their travel to New Delhi as many children come from extremely poor backgrounds.
 
 “Also, we need to buy her clothes, bag, slippers and other accessories for the travel. We are happy that several district administration officials and NGOs have come forward to fund her. The extra money will be deposited in her name. We want her to get trained for the NEET exam and become a doctor,” said Arul Siva, Tamil teacher at the school.
 
 The team would leave for Japan on May 12 and return on May 19. The itinerary include visit to YASKAWA electric corporation, Toyota Motor, Kyushu Inc, Kyushu University, national museum of emerging science and innovation (Miraikan), Ichikawa Gakuen Ichikawa junior and senior high school and Waseda University. They would also attend a lecture by prof Ryoji Noyori, nobel laureate in chemistry.
 
 
