

 Last year, BMC started work on converting 20% of street lights in LED. In 2018-19, the civic body proposes to have all the roads and streets lit with LED. BMC chief Ajoy Mehta on Friday allocated Rs 28 crore for the work. Sources said LED bulbs are expensive, but are energy efficient, so will result in huge savings in the long run. 
 
 
 
 There have been several complaints against operators of pay-and-use toilets. So, BMC wants to ensure that Mumbaikars don’t have to haggle with operators even for answering the nature’s call. The civic body has decided to scarp the pay-and-use concept and make public toilets free. Toilet not being properly maintained will be taken over by BMC and new toilets constructed by BMC at its own cost. 
 
 
 
 
 As a lot of people avoid taking foot over-bridges just because climbing up the stairs is tiresome, the civic body has proposed to provide escalator to the skywalk under construction at Jogeshwari station and existing FOB at   in Kurla (W) on experimental basis. BMC has also decided to check the technical feasibility to provide escalator at Marine Drive FOB.
 
 
 
 
 The civic body had proposed construction of eight new swimming pools across the city. This will be in addition to the Olympic-size   coming up Kandivli through redevelopment of the Sardar Vallabhbhai swimming pool, work on which is in progress. The civic chief has, in the 2018-19 budget, made a provision of Rs 35crore for the swimming pools.
 
 
 
 
 The BMC has proposed to build a well-equipped auditorium where 3D films can be screened to teach disaster management to school and college students. The aim would be to create awareness among children about disasters like earthquake, tsunami, landslide, fire. The civic body has allocated Rs 4 crore for the project. BMC has allocated Rs 4 crore for the project.
 
 
 
 
 If the Development Plan 2034 gets the government’s approval in 2018-19, the BMC will be ready to start work on open spaces, transportation services, and solid waste management facilities
 
 
