CHENNAI: Appalled over the information that a nine storied building constructed in 12 grounds of land in   owned by the   Discharged Prisoners Aid Society has been leased out for 45 years to a private engineering company for a meagre amount of Rs 30,000 per month, Madras high court has directed the society to give details of officials who had fixed the lease amount.

 A status report of the properties owned by the society also revealed that the lessee company had stopped paying the rent from June 2015. Till 2004, the property was rented out to the office of DIG of Police, Chenglepet Range and thereafter, it was leased out to   and Promoters Private Ltd for a period of 45 years.
 
 Justice N  , slamming officials and smelling a scam, said: “It is unimaginable that a property measuring 12 grounds with 9 storey building in the heart of the city was leased out for a meagre sum of Rs10 lakhs as advance for a period of 45 years. The rent of Rs 30,000 per month is very negligible, that too for a nine storey building. Therefore, the DGP has to file a report of officials who had taken the decision to lease out the property in question, and the details of all the directors of Quanta Engineers and Promoters and Real Value Technologies (present lessee),” the judge said.
 
 It seems Quanta had immediately sub-leased the property to Real Value Technologies and the said company was paying a rent of Rs 1 lakh per month directly to the society, Justice Kirubakaran pointed out.
 
 The judge also directed the Tamil Nadu prison department to file a report with details as to whether released prisoners in the state were being provided with the assistance as per the prison manual, and whether they were shadowed to verify that they were not resuming criminal activities.
 
 Noting that for decades together, the properties of the society located across the state had been suffering neglectand fallen in the hands of lumpen elements, Justice Kirubakaran said it was the reason why police were unable to get basic details of properties and monthly rent paid by persons who were in possession of such properties. He then directed the district officials of the society to contact the district collectors concerned to get details of the properties belonging to the society.
 
 If the details are not collected by the prison authorities, the high court will be compelled to summon the home secretary as well as DGP, the judge warned and posted the plea to January 22 for further hearing.
 
 
