With just one of the three applications, for new medical colleges in Telangana, being green-signalled by the   (MCI), the 2018-19 academic year will see only 150 fresh MBBS seats added to the state’s kitty.

 At present, Telangana has a total 3,300 MBBS seats,   across 23 colleges.
 
 
 
  
 
 The new college —   — sanctioned by MCI’s executive committee, following its meeting last month, is in Ranga Reddy district. Last year, the college failed to seek necessary approval owing to administrative issues.
 
 “The executive committee of the council considered the assessment report…. and decided to recommend to the central government to issue letter of permission for establishment of a new medical college at   (V), RR district, Telangana (Ayaan Institute of Medical Sciences, Teaching Hospital & Research Centre, Telangana) by Ayaan Education Society, Hyderabad, Telangana with an annual intake of 150 MBBS students under Kaloji Narayan Rao University of Health Sciences, Warangal u/s 10A of the IMC Act, 1956 for the academic year 2018-19,” read the minutes of the meetings (MoM) released by MCI recently.
 
 In a huge embarrassment to the state government, the MCI, meanwhile, rejected the application of the government medical college in  , which has been vying for the council’s nod since 2016. Spread over a massive 50 acres, the Telangana government has, till date, invested an estimated ₹700 crore on this institution.
 
 Recommending to the Centre “to not issue letter of permission for establishment of a new Government Medical College at Siddipet by the government of Telangana with an annual intake of 150 MBBS students under Kaloji Narayan Rao University of Health Sciences”, the MCI listed out a host of inadequacies that led to the rejection.
 
 Based on the assessment report of the college, the executive committee of the council noted that the institute had a faculty deficiency of 13.84 per, while its departments of anatomy, physiology, biochemistry, demonstration rooms and pantry were not furnished. Further, the college’s lecture theatres, central library, student hostels, residential quarters, dean’s office, common rooms for boys and girls were still under construction, among other shortcomings.
 
 
