Thane municipal commissioner Sanjeev Jaiswal has approached police chief Param Bir Singh to demand action against errant RTI activists. Jaiswal is the first bureaucrat in the state to take on RTI activists. Alarmed by a sudden spurt in applications under the Right to Information Act by the same people regarding certain projects, Jaiswal set up an internal committee to study all the applications received under the RTI Act in the last one year. 

 The committee found that some activists were seeking information repeatedly on building and development proposals. On the basis of the information secured under RTI, either the activist or his proxy challenged the entire project in court to create hurdles. Some activists initially objected to a project, but later quietly withdrew their application. In certain cases, it was found that even PILs filed before the high court were withdrawn without assigning any valid grounds. The committee has prepared a chart on the number of applications filed by activists, names of the projects, complaints filed with the Thane Municipal Corporation and courts, and date on which the complaints were withdrawn. 
 
 Jaiswal has submitted a list of more than a dozen RTI activists, saying their role should be probed and appropriate action should be taken. A week after the Kamala Mills fire tragedy, which claimed 14 lives, some RTI activists were at the receiving end. The role of RTI activists was under scrutiny, but the investigation never reached a logical end. “It was unfortunate that the corporation was blaming RTI activists for maladministration in the municipal corporation. Under the Act, the role of RTI activists is crucial, they are making attempts to improve the administration, if someone is indulging in blackmail, stern action should be taken. But it does not mean that all RTI activists are blackmailers,” said a RTI activist based in Thane.
 
 Charity chief in action
 
  A month after charity commissioner S G Dige took over the reins, he found that leading charitable hospitals were not providing free treatment to poor patients, although it was their responsibility to reserve at least 10% of their beds for them. Besides imposing a huge fine on a leading hospital, Dige has ordered inspection of several charitable hospitals and called for records of poor patients. It was followed by identification of beggars on the roads. Dige felt that if funds under corporate social responsibility are made available, then it was not difficult to rehabilitate 1.5 lakh beggars. Many of them are stationed at traffic signals or outside temples in the state. 
 
 Dige has entrusted the task to the woman and child welfare department to identify beggars and draft a rehabilitation plan. The department has already initiated the work and efforts are being made to complete the assignment within a stipulated period. Dige realised that many farmers were committing suicide due to lack of funds for their daughters’ marriages, debt burden and poor health. 
 
 A week ago, Dige called a meeting of trustees of all major temples across the state to ascertain the status of funds and how they were utilizing the surplus cash. Many trustees attended the meeting with their balance sheets. Dige has taken the view that if surplus funds could be utilized for the marriages of farmers’ daughters, it would go a long way in providing relief. 
 
 “Dige is looking beyond his routine job and his plans will certainly provide relief to the common man,” said a senior bureaucrat. 
 
 
