GANGARAMPUR: The tribal gang-rape survivor from Kushmandi managed to mumble a few words when the West Bengal Commission for Women led by its chairperson Leena Gangopadhyay visited   on Wednesday.

 “She uttered a name, but didn’t ask for his punishment. It seems the youth had an affair with her,” Gangopadhyay said.
 
 The delegation passed on the name to police. It does not match that of either of the arrested duo. Police are not sure if the survivor had taken the culprit’s nickname because she is still in trauma.
 
 Gangopadhyay also debunked the claim that the victim was mentally unstable. “She is recovering and responded to our questions properly and never showed any sign of mental instability,” she said.
 
 The state government, meanwhile, has sanctioned Rs 4.12 lakh for the survivor’s treatment and plans to give her a house after she recovers and is discharged. “It’s a heinous incident. We are with her and want her speedy recovery. We have decided to build a house for her once she gets well,” chief minister   said at a public meeting at Gangarampur on Wednesday, a day after she met the survivor in the critical care unit.
 
  station inspector in-charge Shyamal   came under fire from the CM at an administrative meeting later. “Why did police act so late?” she said soon after learning that the survivor had been left in the open for eight hours with critical injuries to her private parts before police reached the spot.
 
 While Biswas fumbled for a reply and said “we took action as soon as we got the information”, an angry CM said: “Why did the news reach so late? It means police have no community network.”
 
 Kushmandi Police had anticipated this and rounded up two persons ahead of the CM’s visit. One of them, Ramprabesh Sharma, has a criminal record. He had spent 90 days in prison in connection with a murder case. The other arrested person,  , has no such record.
 
 Local sources said the survivor has a huge plot in the village in her name but has no relatives. The gang  , they claimed, could have been an attempt to kill her and grab her property.
 
 
