KOLKATA: Aware of the lack of preparedness to cambat highspeed squalls, civic officials have prepared a blueprint to tackle the situation arising out of nor’westers by strategically deploying resources in advance.

 “On Tuesday, we were taken completely off guard when the squall hit the city. Though we have a disaster management team, precious time, and perhaps lives, were wasted because it was not mobilized on time. Taking a lesson from what has happened, we have decided to heed warnings issued by the   at   and prepare ourselves to meet the challenge,” said a civic official.
 
 The nor’wester blueprint has three components. First, deploy teams of 20 persons each in three divisions — north, central and south — to move quickly to the spot and remove trees when they learn about the uprooting in a storm. Second, engage building department officials in the 16 boroughs to remain vigilant about the listed insecure buildings in their jusrisdiction. The preparedness includes keeping a demolition squad ready to act if anyone gets trapped in the event of a collapse. Third, deploy the disaster management personnel in boroughs so that they can respond to any emergency at the earliest.
 
 A meeting on this was held at the civic headquarters on Thursday, where municipal commissioner   asked borough executive engineers to keep the teams ready. With the Met department issuing a squall warning for Saturday evening,   has asked the teams to be in place by Saturday morning.
 
 Beyond KMC’s short-term measures, green activists have called for a quick survey of all trees to identify those that are weak and prone to toppling in a storm so that urgent strenghtening measures can be undertaken to save them. They have also asked for removal of all concrete from the base of trees as several of the uprooted trees in Tuesday evening’s storm had concrete around the base.
 
 “The KMC must identify the trees that are leaning or have unnaturally large crowns to take remedial measures under expert supervision. This will not only save the trees, but will also save lives,” said   of NGO Public.
 
 Sabuj Mancha convenor   felt KMC needed to put more thought into planting and pruning activity.
 
 “Roadside plantation is carried out in an-adhoc manner. We have to be more scientific about it. Choose local species of trees that are sturdy in nature. Also, choose trees according to the location. Beautificaion drives often end up damaging trees as roots are axed. This must stop. Trees are our asset and must be treated well,” he said.
 
