The #SriReddyLeaks saga has taken a scandalous new turn since the news presenter-turned-actress began revealing names of alleged sexual predators in veiled posts for the past few days. Threatening to expose a ‘happening’ director, a “physically disabled producer”, an Indian Idol-winning singer, a TV producer, a senior Baahubali actress and a popular comedian, Sri Reddy’s veiled posts with plenty of obvious hints and clues 
became the talk of T-town. On Tuesday however, her potshot at a “big director” she chose to refer to as ‘kommulu vachina Sekharudu’ sent Tollywood into a frenzy. Though she didn’t say so clearly, word soon spread that she was hinting at   (see inset). In what was passed off as a bedtime story for her followers, Reddy called him a slew of names and accused him of exploiting Telugu girls.
 Soon, Sekhar took to social media to slam   with a post of his own. rubbishing the allegations against him as “totally baseless”, he also threatened to take legal action against the actress. “ I live by my CHARACTER and die by it. I will not spare anyone who tries to point fingers at it. APOLOGISE and take back every word that was posted against me or be ready to face legal action, which will 
 include criminal/civil proceedings,”(sic) he posted. 
 When Hyderabad Times contacted Sri Reddy on Tuesday, she stuck to her guns and dared Sekhar Kammula to take legal action. “I’m not afraid. Let him take legal action. I’m planning to take legal 
 recourse myself. I have witnesses to back my claims,” she said.
 On Wednesday morning however, Reddy made a U-turn when she admitted in a post addressed to Sekhar, that she makes up stories to entertain her fans, only to delete that post soon after. Not stopping at that, Reddy went live on her social media page a little later and declared that she is going to provide evidence to the police soon. “I’m not making any false claims, I have all the evidences with me and I will submit them to the police soon,” she said. 
 Meanwhile, junior artistes like Rekha and   posted video testimonials extending their support to Sri Reddy in her fight to end sexual exploitation of Telugu girls in Tollywood. What’s more, the actresses seem to have found support in women’s rights activist Devi. 
 “Sri Reddy spoke to me three-four days ago, and I advised her to not go to media studios and instead file a complaint. Many junior artistes are supporting her claims of sexual harassment, but they are being threatened by established directors and big industry families, that’s why they are not coming out. But we have assured them that we will stand by them,” says Devi.
 proving charges of sexual harassment in a court of law is, however, easier said than done, remarks advocate  . “The victims can file a case under section 354 of IPC, but they must have 
 solid, strong proof, to prove their claims. The burden of proving their claims in such cases lies on the victims. Testimonies of colleagues who support their claims need to be recorded. Documentary proof like SMS, emails, voice recordings, video recordings first need to be authenticated by the IT cell, as per the Indian Evidence Act. Unless the digital evidences are not verified by the organisations concerned, the court will not treat it as proof,” says Anita.
 Stressing on the need for a strong women’s collective in Tollywood, Devi adds, “According to law it is mandatory to have a ICC or Committee against sexual harassment at every work place. But 
 sadly, neither does the Telugu industry nor does MAA have one. Even if a production has less than 10 women working in it, a CASH committee is needed, only then will it be possible to put an end to the menace of sexual harassment. But for that to happen the big actresses must take a stand. But they are presently talking as if casting couch doesn’t exist at all in Tollywood. Maybe they do not want to be looked at as rebels, but the reality is they are all vulnerable, even if they aren’t as vulnerable as the junior artistes.”
 
