NAGPUR: The   (NNTR) seems to be retaining its lost glory with tiger numbers going up to 15 steadily. Last year, the number was just seven.

 Wildlife buffs and NNTR officials are delighted to record two three-month-old tiger cubs in old   sanctuary after a gap of six years. Two cubs have been recorded in a relocated village in  . Besides, there are three 10-month-old cubs in Koka sanctuary. There are eight adults tigers, said official sources.
 
 The two cubs were sighted by tourists   and Sandeep Gujar and others on Wednesday. “This is after 2012 that cubs have been sighted in old Nagzira after Jai-Veeru pair deserted the park,” says Dhote.
 
 Last year, the divided 656 sqkm reserve had seven tigers. The park still has a potential to hold another 20 tigers.
 
 Over the years, NNTR got a bad name after resident tigers deserted the park or went missing despite big territory. As reported by TOI, in February 2013, Aayat, a male moved towards Balaghat-Kanha, followed by iconic tiger Jai to Umred-Karhandla.
 
 Later, tigress Kanhi too moved to Navegaon in December 2014 from Koka. Besides, whereabouts of T3 (Alpha) and her two cubs and resident male T1 (Dendu) are still not known, and it is feared they might have met same fate as Jai. Missing tigers apart, a young male (T9) from TATR dispersing to NNTR in February 2016 was a positive sign.
 
 “Number of cubs coming up is a good signal though rampant electrocution and gangs of Baheliya poachers are biggest threats to NNTR tigers,” says Sawan Bahekar, president, Sustaining Environment & Wildlife Assemblage (SEWA), Gondia. 
 
 “We did not want to disclose presence of cubs for sake of safety but it got leaked after tourists sighted them. I agree NNTR passed through a bad phase but with present protection regime and work done by my predecessor RS Govekar, the park is on revival phase,” said field director Ramanujam RM. He confirmed figure of 15 tigers include seven cubs and eight adults. 
 
 Ramanujam says control over forest fires and grazing with deployment of STPF has led good growth of grass species. This in turn has led to increase in prey base. Better water management also helped.
 
 “It’s a team effort. The best part is that tigers with cubs have staged a comeback in Navegaon after 2001, when last resident tigers were recorded. Voluntary relocation of villages has paid off,” explained Ramanujam.
 
 Bahekar says the park was devoid of tigers for long as NNTR’s male-female ratio got skewed up. Besides, 25% of the forest was surrounded with exotic plant species not useful for herbivores. Dominant tigers also went missing and after the death of tigress Mai in June 2016, there was nothing to show up. Now, T4 with 2 cubs seem to have occupied Mai’s territory and has raised some hopes for Nagzira.
 
 
