AHMEDABAD: In  , forests are looked after by three different wings of the forest department: social forestry,  ,  . Lions, spread over 22,000 sq km area, fall within the remit of three chief conservators of forests. A proposal to form a single authority for   had been mooted after incidents of poaching in 2007. Since then, the forest department has reiterated the suggestion several times. At present, the lions’ territory is managed by the   (CCF) wildlife, CCF Junagadh, and CCF Rajkot. Apart from CCF wildlife, the staff reporting to CCF Junagadh and Rajkot handle the   role, which is their main job. They also monitor the movement of lions.

  Officials said that the plan for the single authority does not figure in the guidelines of Project Lion. “We were expecting that the government would appoint one officer of the level of additional principal chief conservator of forests (APCCF) for the all management and administrative tasks,” an official said.
 
 The officials said that under the APCCF there can be three CCFs. The officials said that after 2007, when eight lions were poached, a task force was formed to recommend conservation measures. One of them was the formation of the single authority. The officer said that CCF Junagadh was made the coordinator for all lion-related cases, but the administration and powers to initiate new projects still vested in the CCFs.
 
 The officials said that personnel from three wings of the forest department can be inducted to form the authority. They said the delay is hampering the forest department’s capacity to prevent illegal activities including lion shows outside the sanctuary.
 
 The officials said that with the lions venturing into new territories, a CCF wildlife division for   — on the lines of Junagadh’s — was necessary. This CCF should report to the single authority, the officials said.
 
 H S Singh, a member of the  , said: “A single authority needs 150 staffers on the field who will exclusively take care of the lions.” Singh said that the proposal to form the single authority has so far only resulted in an administrative reshuffle. The officials said that appointing 150 staffers and senior officers will require at least Rs 4 crore in additional funds. 
 
 
