NEW DELHI:   Police is going the extra mile to crack down on   targeting passengers on trains and at stations. Till some time ago, the biggest problem while reporting a theft was that there were only six police stations on the entire network and the victim had to visit them to file FIRs. However, the problem is being resolved as Delhi Police is setting up kiosks at every metro   so that passengers can lodge e-FIRs.

 For now, 23 kiosks with a few computers have been installed so that victims can lodge a complaint and take a printout of the FIR. Till January 15, 817 e-FIRs were lodged out of which 92% were of thefts or loss of valuables.
 
 Apart from regular patrols, Delhi Police has joined hands with CISF to scan stations and trains in plainclothes. On Sunday, a youth named Jhalul was arrested for stealing a passenger’s phone at Rajiv Chowk metro station on information given by a patrol team.
 
 Nine police teams have been formed by joint commissioner Ajay Chaudhary to develop information about criminals so that they can be identified when they enter the metro premises. Details about them have also been shared with CISF.
 
 A proposal is also being considered to increase the strength of metro police from the existing 250 as the number of stations is set to increase with the start of new routes. A team led by DCP (metro) Pankaj Singh is also mapping the routes usually taken by the criminals for entry and exit so that they can be monitored.
 
 “Based on the crime patterns, we have advised passengers to be careful about their belongings while entering or leaving the coaches as that is when they are the most vulnerable to thefts. The miscreants take advantage of the peak hour crowd to escape,” DCP Singh said.
 
 It has also been found that the criminals usually prefer interchange stations like Rajiv Chowk, Kashmere Gate and Central Secretariat to commit thefts as they remain crowded throughout the day.
 
 After a woman journalist was molested at ITO metro station, patrols have also been started in the non-paid areas ahead of the frisking kiosks, which are out of the purview of CISF. The CCTVs monitoring these stretches have been upgraded. Police have also planned to install CCTVs in metro parking lots which will be monitored from a common control room.
 
 
