GURUGRAM: Paving the way for connecting   with NH-8,   on Saturday demolished several structures in   village. A section of Dwarka expressway was incomplete in Kherki Daula due to delay in removal of structures, which had obstructed the connection of the expressway with NH-8.

 From Monday, the engineering wing of Huda will start removing debris to level the land. Huda is planning to make this approximately 500 metres stretch of the road ready for movement of vehicles in the next two weeks. This will ensure movement of vehicles from Dwarka expressway to NH-8 near Kherki Daula toll plaza.
 
 Huda managed to complete the demolition drive peacefully with the help of heavy police force. The urban development body demolished a poultry farm spread over around 2 acres of land, two godowns spread over nearly 2 acres of land and six boundary walls of vacant plots. “With this, we have cleared the way for movement of vehicles on this stretch,” said sub-divisional-officer (SDO) of Huda, HS Jakhad, adding that 38 houses aligning the road were given 10 days to vacate.
 
 “For the time being we will construct a temporary road on this stretch for the movement of the vehicles,” said Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav, adding that small vehicles can move on this stretch very soon. One of the ousted people said that around 15 allottees have been given plots over which a high-tension power transmission line passes and they could not build new houses on these plots. “There are also people who have not been paid compensation and the authority needs to give them adequate time for building new houses,” said one of the plot owners on condition of anonymity.
 
 Yadav said that issues raised by the evicted people with regard to allotment of plots, compensation and other matters are being taken up at the highest level, and would be resolved within a week. No more delay will be allowed, he said. More than 568 people who were ousted for the Dwarka expressway project — from Chauma, New Palam Vihar, Kherki Daula and other areas — had applied for alternative plots under the final terms of the settlement (FTS) of 2015 prepared under the supervision of Punjab and Haryana high court.
 
 Huda had identified 212 people eligible for rehabilitation and handed over allotment letters to 148 of them in Sector 110A and Sector 37C. However, as many as 64 of the ousted people are holders of general power of attorney (GPA) and special power of attorney (SPA), and their rehabilitation hopes rest solely on the Punjab and Haryana high court. The next hearing on the case related to the settlement of   is scheduled for January 8.
 
 The alignment of the expressway has been changed by NHAI after declaring it a national highway in 2017. The central peripheral road is now part of the expressway. Bur the older alignment passing through Kherki Daula will act as a temporary connection between the expressway and NH-8. After completion of the expressway, the road passing through Kherki Daula village will be converted into a link road for sectors 83 and 84 with NH-8.
 
 
