CHENNAI: Deputy chief minister O   may have come out the winner after his dramatic revolt and subsequent compromise with the   faction last year. But, his silence in the wake of the Madras high court dismissing DMK's plea to disqualify him and 10   MLAs for having voted against the government in February 2017, has triggered intense speculations about his next move. OPS, who left for his hometown in Periyakulam in Theni district, on Thursday night, was careful to keep away from the local media. 

 Soon after the verdict was out on Friday, party sources said the 10 MLAs, who sided with OPS during the rebellion, were advised by him not to give media bytes. Sources said minister K Pandiarajan, the only minister to shift loyalties to OPS during the February 2017 rebellion, was curtly told to cut short his interview. 
 
 "OPS is silent as he does not want to court controversy that may even remotely hurt his political prospects," said an associate in Periyakulam where Panneerselvam has been camping for the last two days. Panneerselvam's silence is also significant with the two leaves symbol case being heard in the Delhi high court, wherein repeal of the post of general secretary by the unified AIADMK has been challenged by   and T T V Dhinakaran. They have argued that an election to the post should be held. 
 
 With CM Palaniswami's clout within AIADMK growing, Panneerselvem has been reduced to number two. "OPS is keen to take over the reins of the party as general secretary first," said a senior leader, seeking anonymity. As per the merger deal, the two factions had agreed that while EPS would continue to be the chief minister, OPS would be made the AIADMK coordinator and de-facto party chief. OPS was appointed the coordinator and Palaniswami joint coordinator as per the amended bylaws of the unified party. This is yet to ratified by the EC. 
 
 OPS silence also comes against the backdrop of a power struggle within the Sasikala clan, with her brother,   revealing that several ministers were friendly with him. Neither EPS nor his associates have reacted so far. Analysts say that Panneerselvam is playing his cards close to his chest given the impending verdict in the 18 MLAs disqualification case. "OPS is quietly seeking to regain his popularity that was lost after he joined hands with the EPS group. It appears as if he is subservient to Palaniswami and has to find his own space," said journalist Tharasu Shyam.
 
 
