I am generally a torchbearer for movies when it comes to a question of their impact on society. It has become rather fashionable to blame the deterioration in social values on mass media in general, and cinema in particular. Never more is this blame game played with unfaltering conviction as much as it is in the Indian context. We hear a lot of voices that insist that our social values are dictated solely by the hemlines of heroines; that movie portrayals of love and sex and women are the primary bellows that fan sexual deviancy among the people, and contaminate the collective psyche of Indian men.

 The hollowness of these claims is quite obvious even to the most indifferent observer. We are not Hollywood which revels in pushing the boundaries, or Europe, where everything is questioned, where no taboo is too safe and no rule too sacred. We are not Bollywood, where an idomitable stream of filmmakers keeps asking new questions, or Kerala, which has always held its chin high on the avant garde mantle. Kodambakkam has always been incredibly resistant to change, and boringly intolerant to scandal. Save a handful of infrequent movies (Visaaranai, Lens) that refuse to toe the median line, most fit quite comfortably in the cosy oyster of template tradition. This is precisely why I argue that Tamil movies actually are the only place where you can still find vestiges of our fast-disappearing culture. Where else would you find a room full of kolams and half-sari-clad maidens these days except in a Tamil song sequence? Where else would you find picture-perfect villages with perfect law-abiding citizens worshipping their leader hero except in our movie scripts?
 
 I wager that if the world was run like a Tamil movie, it would be a much better place to live in. A place where God would test good people, but never forsake them. A place where truth would always prevail and justice would always win in the end. Where everyone knows to sing and dance. Where airplanes wait for the bride to change her mind and joyously reunite with her love. Where ramrod straight cops would wreak havoc on their detractors. Where the good guy would always find prosperity, usually within the six minutes of a song. Where terrorists are caught before they can blow anything up. Where the bad guys are always brought to book. 
 Where love conquers all, and good always triumphs over evil.
 
 It has taken our excruciatingly slow legal machinery five years to pronounce a verdict in the Nirbhaya case. If this had been a movie, justice would have been swift, decisive, and a lot less lenient. The perpetrators, age not withstanding, would have all met with gory ends befitting their heinous crime.
 
 If it had been a Tamil movie, the Hasini horror would have never been enacted; if such a tale had been made, it would have been considered too brutal to pass the censors. Truth, sadly, is more ruthless than fiction. At least, in our movies, the perpetrator would have suffered an infinitely more agonising fate than in real life.
 
 One wonders if it is not what is shown in the movies itself that is detrimental, but the conflicting standards that our demanding denizens view the movies with. Let us take the case of the ‘skimpily clad heroine’. This stereotype is pointed out as the classic example of a bad influence on men. “How can we respect such women?” cry our moral puritans. For over two hours, they watch their favourite hero fall in love with, respect and marry this very woman, clothes and all. So is their hero wrong? Whose fault is it that this message is lost in translation? I agree a lot of our movies are steeped in misogyny and violence, but would that trend thrive if viewers did not actively encourage such content?
 
 We hear of an Auto Shankar who purportedly was influenced by a movie (Sathyaraj playing a baddie) to commit a series of gruesome murders, but we seldom celebrate the many movies (the same Sathyaraj, playing Walter Vetrivel, among others) that motivated entire generations to become policemen. 
 
 Movies are also certainly much more courteous and well-mannered than real life. No invectives please — we are Tamil,   style.
 
 It is no secret that we do hold our stars to a higher standard both on and off screen. A whole state rose up in arms against a certain Beep Song, while in everyday urban life, no one thinks twice about spouting a volley of slurs in a bus full of women and children. One only has to go online on social media to balk at the language being used there, by our educated young turks. It took another refreshingly honest movie, Maanagaram, to actually call us out on this one. 
 
 No one is calling our movie industry a Garden of Eden that churns out perfectly noble lessons in character building. But then, do not expect them to be. While several movies may be a comment on society, they need not be and certainly are not instruments of social reform. Quit clamouring for responsibility and go enjoy a movie.
 
 (Views expressed above are the author’s own) 
 
 
 
 
 
