Nagpur: In a bizarre overlap of curriculum, the state board’s Std IX and X students are studying almost similar topics in Math and Science subjects this academic session. Speaking to TOI on the sidelines of a government-organized education seminar on Wednesday, principals pointed out that the new Std IX curriculum includes multiple topics from Std X which has made things difficult for both students and teachers. 

 A senior principal said students are facing an uphill task because of the upgraded Math and Science syllabus. “Due to the new curriculum, the current Std IX students have technically gone straight from Std VIII to X. Teachers are complaining that there is no link between the existing Std VIII textbooks and the new Std IX. Teaching kids is like climbing steps one by one, but here students have been asked to virtually skip step no. 9.” 
 
 School education minister Vinod Tawde told TOI that it is a “teacher-specific” problem and not to be “generalized”. 
 
 “The upgraded Std IX curriculum does contain topics which were usually taught at Std X level, but it is a well- thought-out initiative to increase the quality of education. Maybe certain teachers were uncomfortable as this requires personal academic upgradation as well. A majority of our teachers have accepted the curriculum and have been doing a great job for the last eight months,” said Tawde.
 
 For example, a Std X Science chapter which talks about the functioning of kidney and nephron appears in Std IX too. Similarly, the parts of chapter which talk about flow of electricity now find a place in Std IX. There are many other similarities (see box).
 
 Another principal said this development may result in more failures in Std IX, something the education department is trying to prevent. “Education officials think that we deliberately fail students in Std IX to maintain a clean record in Std X. But, the problem is that the child lands in Std IX without ever having to give an exam where one can fail too. This year’s curriculum is going to compound our problem,” she said. 
 
 However, Tawde disagrees. “The semester exams have given encouraging results, so a fear of mass failures is unfounded. Ultimately, it is the teacher’s job to ensure that students are ready for the academic challenge,” said Tawde, adding that next year “we will have a new curriculum for Std X which will ensure that kids are not studying the same topic”. 
 
 The minister said the students were at the forefront when the curriculum was being upgraded. “Politicians did not design the curriculum, academicians did. The new curriculum was looked at from a psychiatric point of view, vetted by subject experts and approved by the board of studies that comprises teachers,” said Tawde.
 
 Pointing out that it boils down to how a teacher imparts knowledge in the classroom, Tawde said, “Knowledge has to come from textbooks and not guides available in the market or private notes.” 
 
 He added that with the curriculum upgrade the Maharashtra government hopes to bring state kids at par with those from CBSE and ICSE.
 
 
