Yeshoda Bai, IFS, who took charge as the new   in-charge of Vizag’s sprawling 625-acre  , has already brought in a visible change to the green haven by hiking the entry fee to serve the animals better and offering discounts to students to encourage more youngsters to the  . In a tête-à-tête with   Times, Yeshoda opens up about what changes she plans to bring in. 

  Hailing from Kerala, Yeshoda previously served as DFO in Kurnool and as curator at the Tirupati Zoo. admitting that she is only beginning to get familiar with the zoo, she says, “I have not been here for long and I am doing my best to get acquainted with how the zoo functions. I have interacted with everyone here from ex-curators, to managers to get a fair idea of how the zoo had functioned in the past. I had been herepreviouslywhen we were assigned special duty after Cyclone Hudhud hit Vizag. I have seen how it destroyed the zoo back then, and the restoration work that brought it back to the present stage.”
 
  
 
 
  Vizag Zoo was built in the 1970s, when the idea of captive facility was vastly different from what it is now,   informs us. “The bird enclosures here are all outdated; visitors can’t even see the birds properly. The mesh enclosure that holds the birds is more than a decade old. Many zoos worldwide now have glass enclosures. Apart from these changes we need to bring in, I am trying to see what else can be done to improve the accommodation of the animals.” she adds. 
 
  Describing her plans, she shares, “Over a span of three years, I plan tobring about a much-needed change in the zoo. Because of the damage caused by Hudhud, a significant amount of restoration was needed to be done. But, despite the zoo getting funds from the World Bank, some of the work is yet to becarried out. I am looking into it now.”
 
  Maintaining that renovating the zoo will be her top priority, Yeshoda says, “I would prefer to bring in the best enclosure models available rather than just going through basic renovation.” 
 
  Renovatingthe much-loved Butterfly Park, which boasts of a wide variety of butterfly species is next on the curator’s agenda. “I want to renovate itby improving the house plants. Once summer is over, I would like to introduce new species of flora in the rainy season.Now, all the plants are in flowering stage, providing good feed to the butterflies,” she says, with a smile. 
 
  
 
 
  Yeshoda proudly says the zoo is one of the best in India in terms of animal collections. Comparing it with theTirupati Zoo, she says the two zoos are the largest in the state. “Tirupati is the largest zoo in the country and in Asia in terms of its area. However, it was previously called a medium zoo due to its low footfall. With rise in footfall, things have changed. But the Vizag Zoo is rated as the best zoo in Andhra Pradesh because of its animal population.We are the only zoo in South India to have the single horned rhino, which are only found in Assam in the wild. It is difficult to get it now, as only aged or captured rhinos are sent to zoos,” she shares. 
 
  
 
 
  The zoo has 77 enclosures as of now, including birds, out of which a few lie vacant due to deaths. “Unfortunately, over time, the number of animals herehas declined due to various reasons— natural deaths as well as deaths due to snake bikes.The zoo is situated in a forest area with open enclosures, so there are a lot of snakes. recently, we we even had a workshop for the snake menace,” she adds. 
 
  
 
 
  The previous curator had envisioned animal exchange program which had received approval inJanuary 2018. What will come of that? “The old proposals that haven’t been carried out are now void. The animals we wanted to exchange then are not here now due to Hudhud. So, a fresh proposal is needed and we have made a list of animals present here.”
 
  
 
 
  Yeshoda reveals that the wild dog breeding project, launched in 2014, will be taken up. “When each zoo was allotted various species, we opted to breed wild dogs as Vizag is in the Eastern Ghats, a natural habitat for these dogs. We have a good number of wild dogs now, however, they need to acclimatised before they can be left in the wild. Wild animals change their behaviour when they’re bred and kept in captivity. Sometimes females give birth and don’t even know how to rear their puppies,” she informs. 
 
  
 
 
  “A lemur recently gave birth, so we have two ring-tailed lemurs that are only a few weeks old. However, we do not announce new births until 2-6 months after the birth because sometimes mothers don’t feed and it’s not advisable to hand-rear. Some mothers even kill their young ones or abandon them. So we do not like to announce unless the baby has been around long enough for us to identify it as a member of the zoo,” shares the curator.
 
  
 
 
  The zoo’s 20-member strong staff are not enough, admits Yeshoda. “But we are doing our best to manage things. Wild animals require utmost care, so my staff put in their heart and soul. However, I must admit it would be easier if we had more people appointed here.”
 
  
 
 
  Special care is taken during summer says, Yeshoda Bai. “For night enclosures, cooling paints are used to reduce the temperature. The number of ventilators and coolers in enclosures have increased and for most animals, we are leaving the door open so they can choose to stay in or out during the night.” Yeshoda says.
 
  Pointing at the CCTV footage playing on a screen in her room, she says, “Even the giraffes and elephants prefer to take shelter under the palmera leaves due to the heat. Their water tubs are filled in the morning and diet has be changed to include more juicy fruits and vegetables that will keep them hydrated. The white tigers are almost always seen near their water troughs. The birds require the most care during summer and we keep sprinkling water on them as they are confined to their cages.”
 
