Chennai: Giving a breather to the striking transport workers, Madras   on Monday directed Tamil Nadu government not to terminate any such worker without the permission of the court.

 However, the first bench of Chief Justice Indira Banerjee and Justice Abdul Quddhose refused to vacate the interim order dated January 5, restraining the workers from taking recourse to strike. The bench also recorded its expectation that the government will immediately release the outstanding provident fund and other dues of the workers, particularly, where deductions have been made from the wages of the workers.
 
 During the course of hearing, when advocate-general Vijay Narayan said the corporations being in the red for over seven years was the reason for such issues, the bench remarked, “if the government is unable to run the corporations effectively, then let it go. It could be privatised. But gradually, without affecting the current employees, till they retire from service.”
 
 However, rejecting arguments justifying the strike, the bench said: “Who suffers because of the strike? It does not affect the government, the transport minister or the bureaucrats. It affects only middle and lower class people. If they fail to report to duty on time, they lose a day’s wage.”
 
 When counsel said primary reason for the strike was the failure of the government to pay the PF and other dues, including insurance premiums deducted from wages, the bench wondered how the government could hold PF funds deducted from the workers without remitting them to the accounts of the workers?
 
 Authorities cannot withhold PF dues that were already deducted. Such benefits are statutory right of workers, it said.
 
 When Vijay Narayan said government had paid Rs 379 crore so far to retired employees as per directions of another division bench hearing a similar case, the bench said, “then get loan and settle dues.” When counsel said corporation had deducted over Rs 5,000 crore from workers so far, the court said even under such circumstance, resorting to flash strike putting the common people in trouble could not be tolerated.
 
 The bench then transferred the case to another bench headed by Justice S Manikumar to be heard along with a similar case being peding before it.
 
 
