Kolkata: Notwithstanding their success at the Under-19 World Cup in New Zealand, the Indian contingent, led by Prithvi Shaw and coached by Rahul Dravid, once again find themselves in a controversy as the Cricket Association of Bihar (CAB) secretary   has levelled charges against   acting secretary   of fielding an overage  .

 While batsman Manjot Kalra had to overcome a similar age-related issue before boarding the flight to New Zealand, Roy, who emerged as the joint highest-wicket taker with 14 scalps to his name, has been dragged into the controversy owing to Verma’s allegations against Chaudhary.
 
 Currently playing in the Vijay Merchant Trophy in Hyderabad, the left-arm spinner completely denied Verma’s charges. “I have no idea about what this (the claims) is about and neither do I have any knowledge of such things,” said Roy.
 
 Verma, who has supposedly written a letter to the International Cricket Council (ICC) chairman Shashank Manohar and chairman of the Committee of Administrators Vinod Rai to bring the issue to their notice, alleged that Roy had failed the age verification process (AVP) conducted by the BCCI in 2017. “I was never informed about any such issues. I clearly passed the test and was eligible for selection,” Roy maintained.
 
 Apart from levelling charges against Chaudhary of misusing his position and power as the then convener of the junior selection committee, Verma also trained his guns on Jharkhand State Cricket Association’s (JSCA) joint secretary, also the manager of the Indian   squad, Rajesh Verma for suppressing the fact that 33 players of the association were found to be overage in the AVP test in 2013, including Roy.
 
 Reacting to Verma’s statements on Friday, Rajesh Verma said, “Roy was part of the Asia Cup squad last year although he did not play. Why did he not ask this question then? As a manager whatever certificates are given, that has to be approved by the ICC well ahead of time. I’ve got nothing to do with it. The AVP process does not happen every year. It is only done at the U-16 level. After that it doesn’t work. It’s the age certificates which work after that,” said Rajesh Verma.
 
 Clearly stung by Verma’s allegations, he further added, “Roy’s birth certificate carries forward till he retires. We followed the age registered with BCCI. He (Aditya Verma) cooks up everything. As someone not affiliated to any organization or club, he doesn’t deserve an answer.”
 
 
