As Dalit protests engulfed much of the country this week, 27-year-old Ramprasad Bamnia was fighting his own battle in Ghatiya town of  , 24 km from Ujjain. April 2 was his wedding day, but the mood was tense and sombre. 

 
 The flashpoint: Bamnia had the audacity to ride a horse, and his wedding procession was dancing to the song Ghoomar from the blockbuster movie Padmaavat. This was enough to rile the dominant Rajput community. A group of 15-20 people pelted stones, and one hit him, forcing him to alight from the horse. “We were surrounded by a group armed with sticks. I called the police and they helped us escape,” says the shaken groom.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Bamnia is a police constable himself, posted in Shajapur district, but it made no difference to the caste hierarchy. However, it did help in getting police protection for his baraat to proceed. Ujjain additional SP Neeraj Pandey offered him his own vehicle. “We decided that the marriage procession would be taken out again from the same place where it was stopped. It was a question of restoring the community’s pride,” he says.
 
 It was pride that made Bamnia determined not to change his marriage venue. “If people like me, who are educated and employed, let themselves be cowed by such evil practices, it will only encourage people with caste biases,” he says.
 
 Bamnia is not an exception. Education, economic prosperity and a growing sense of selfhood are making many young Dalits and their families get married in pomp and style, which has raised the hackles of upper castes, to say the least. The result: a spate of attacks in states like Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan,   and Uttar Pradesh in the last few years.
 
 Sanjay Jatav, a Dalit from Hathras, refuses to allow traditional definitions of caste define him. Jatav is studying in an Aligarh college and had recently moved the Allahabad high court seeking protection to take the baraat to his bride’s village in Uttar Pradesh’s Kasganj district, after the sarpanch and district magistrate turned him down. The HC redirected him back to the local police, and he now plans to move the  .
 
  
  
 
 “The DM, who is himself a Thakur, is endorsing the dominant caste tradition that we can’t enter their area. Why? It’s my marriage and my procession. The roads are common for everyone in village. Isn’t it the job of police to maintain harmony? Or are Dalits out of the purview of police because we aren’t the ruling party’s vote bank?’’ Sanjay asks. The Kasganj administration has now charted an alternate route that is 800 m long and skirts upper-caste homes, for the wedding, which is barely two weeks away. 
 
 Dalit thinker and political commentator Chandrabhan Prasad says that the attacks are a sign of the growing frustration among castes who are losing their traditional power and pelf. ‘’The frustration and resentment of the upper castes finds expression in incidents where Dalits are attacked for riding a horse, keeping an upturned moustache or even wearing jeans and shades,’’ he says.
 
 For Rampal Balai, getting a horse for his daughter’s groom was a sign of how far he had come. “My daughter is educated and intelligent. I wanted to celebrate her wedding with whatever I had,’’ Balai says. He pulled out all the stops — spending Rs 10 lakh on a music band, horse and food for the wedding in March this year. The procession was moving to Dhuwaliya village in Rajasthan’s Bhilwara district when it was attacked by Jats. ‘’We did not let the boy get down from the horse when they stopped the baraat and called for police help. But they spoilt the festive mood,’’ Balai says. ‘’They (the upper castes) think of themselves as more than human and us as animals. I am pursuing the case legally, I have not given up,’’ he adds.
 
 This bravado often comes with consequences. Bhuraram Parmar, whose son Bharat was the first Dalit in his village to mount a horse for his wedding, has been facing a social boycott for the last four years. The wedding procession was attacked in Bhagora village of Rajasthan’s Pali district in April 2014 by Rajputs. ‘’Four or five Rajput men and women stopped our baraat of 150 people and used caste slurs. They beat our son so badly that he continues to need medical treatment,’’ says Bhuraram, who has a government job in Gujarat.
 
 Not only did the Rajput community demand Rs 5,000 as a fine for committing such an act of temerity, even many Dalits in Parmar’s village refused to accompany the baraat till he promised reconciliation. ‘’My own extended family turned against me, and even today no one speaks to me or meets me. I am an outsider in my own village,’’ Bhuraram says. 
 
 There is a reluctance to take on the system because of the intense interdependence within the village community, but there are more and more Dalits willing to risk everything, says Satish Kumar from the Rajasthan-based Centre for Dalit Rights (CDR). CDR had filed a PIL in Rajasthan High Court in 2015 over disruptions of Dalit marriage and funeral processions. 
  
 Bamnia’s family and in-laws in Ujjain’s Ghatiya town fear a similar backlash from the Rajputs. “They are very jittery. There are rumors that irrigated water to Dalits will be stopped,” says Bamnia.
 
 As Ashok Bharti, chairman of the National Confederation of Dalit Organisations, says: “This is not a fight of rich vs poor. It is a fight for samman, for dignity.’’
 
 
 
 
 
