BENGALURU: The   transport department on Tuesday notified new cab fares for urban areas which will see commuters pay a minimum of Rs 44 for small cabs and Rs 80 on luxury taxis for the first 4km. The notification also fixed the minimum and maximum fares per kilometre, taking away from cab aggregators like   and Uber the option to tinker with charges.

 The new fares will come into effect immediately in all the urban areas of the state. It replaces the earlier tariff structure which prescribed no minimum fare but capped the maximum fare at Rs 14/ km for non-AC vehicles and Rs 19.50/km for AC vehicles.
 
 The new fares could push up the rates for taxi services. The notification bars fares based on journey time. The leeway for operators resorting to dynamic pricing will be restricted by the minimum and maximum tariff caps notified.
  
  
 Radio taxis, as defined in the Karnataka On-Demand Transportation Technology Aggregators Rules, will also be able to charge based on the price of the vehicles which have been classified into four classes. The minimum fare chargeable for the first 4km — all classes — will range between Rs 44 and Rs 80. The per km tariff for journeys beyond 4km will have to be within the minimum and maximum fares prescribed for each class in the notification.
 
 The notification provides for a free waiting period of 20 minutes that will help commuters, while a charge of Rs 10 for every 15 minutes of waiting after this period will be allowed for operators.
 
 
 
 
 Keeping in mind frequent increase in fuel rates, vehicle prices, bank interest rates, and increasing maintenance cost along with expenses incurred in the form of drivers’ salaries and so on, the government thought it fit to fix the rates for cab services,” the notification read.
 
  President Tanvir Pasha, said: “The government has notified the new fares in a hurry keeping in mind the upcoming elections and it’s not good. It only brings cheer to the likes of Ola and Uber which will see increased revenues and we protest this move.”
 
 Pasha, founder of  , ended his agreement with cab aggregators and is associated with  , backed by JD (S) state president  .
 
 Taxi drivers, however, have had a longstanding demand of a fixed minimum fare as they dealt with predatory pricing of aggregators they had tied up with was eating into their revenue.
 
 Cab hailing aggregator Uber welcomed the move. “We welcome the efforts taken by the government of Karnataka to revise the existing fare structure, keeping in mind the interest of hundreds of thousands of driver partners. The revision will help improve their earning potential and create sustainable livelihood opportunities. While it is a step in the right direction, we believe dynamic pricing will help increase reliability for riders and improve asset utilization for driver partners. We remain committed to engaging and working with the relevant authorities to enable regulations that can enhance the future of urban mobility in the state,” said Christian Freese, GM-South, Uber India.
 
