BENGALURU: Chief minister   ranks sixth among his counterparts in the country vis-à-vis personal wealth, according to a report of the Association of Democratic Reforms (ADR). He’s also among the few chief ministers with a clean background.

 The report analyzed CMs of all 29 states and two Union Territories with regard to their wealth and criminal records.
 
 
  
  
  
 
 As per the report, prepared by ADR and National Election Watch, Siddaramaiah ranks sixth in the country in terms of overall wealth with assets around Rs 13 crore. This includes movable assets worth Rs 2.4 crore and immovable property worth Rs 11.2 crore.
 
 The report claims   chief minister Chandrababu Naidu is the richest with property worth around Rs 177 crore.
 
 He’s followed by Arunachal Pradesh CM Prema Khandu (Rs 129 crore), Punjab CM Amrinder Singh (Rs 48 crore), Telangana CM KC Rao (Rs 15 crore) and Meghalaya CM Mukul Sangma (Rs 14 crore). The CMs with the lowest declared assets are Tripura’s Manik Sarkar with assets worth Rs 27 lakh, followed by West Bengal’s   (over Rs 30 lakh) and Jammu & Kashmir’s   (Rs 56 lakh).
 
 While the average assets of CMs are worth Rs 16 crore, the report says about 25 CMs (81%) are crorepatis, with only two having assets over Rs 100 crore.
 
 The report claims 11 CMs (35%) have declared criminal cases against them. However, the list does not include the Karnataka CM. He’s among the CMs (65%) with a clean background. Maharashtra CM tops the list with 22 criminal cases, of which three are serious criminal cases, followed by Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan and Delhi CM   with 10 criminal cases each.
 
 In terms of educational qualification, 10% are Class 12 pass, 39% graduates, 32% graduate professional, 16% post-graduate and 3% doctorate. Siddaramaiah falls in the 32% graduate professional as he was a practising lawyer before joining politics.
 
 The report analysed the self-sworn affidavits of current CMs. These are the latest affidavits filed by them prior to contesting elections in their respective state/Union Territory. 
 
 
