CHANDIGARH: Addressing a protest rally at Chandigarh on Tuesday, former Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh   advised   not to pay their debt stating that his successor Captain Amarinder Singh had given them sworn affidavits stating he would pay their debts.

 Badal said it was time Punjab CM fulfilled his promise. Farmers and workers of the   and the BJP had gathered at Chandigarh’s Sector 25 rally ground to gherao the   to protest against the state government’s failure to implement a full Rs 90,000 crore loan waiver promise.
 
 The former CM said he was ready for any sacrifice for Punjab’s cause. “Many governments have implemented loan waiver schemes. The   government can also do it. We provided a relief of Rs 60,000 crore to farmers by reimbursing the state utility for their tubewell bills,” he said.
 
 Later, when the Akali and BJP leaders and workers started the march to gherao the Punjab assembly and to cross barricades, they had to face lathi-charge and water cannons from the Chandigarh police, causing injuries to some of them. Union minister and   president Vijay Sampla also sustained injuries in a water cannon charge.
 
 Demanding implementation of complete loan waiver, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal said magnitude of the gathering was a reflection of the anger of Punjabis against the Congress government which had led to back stabbing every section of the society by going back on pre-poll promises.
 
 He also condemned the use of lathi-charge against innocent agitators who were registering their protest in a most peaceful and democratic manner.
 
 Earlier, addressing the gathering, Sampla said the Congress government had not only exploited farmers but also the Dalit community. He said the situation was such that even mid-day meals were not being served in the government schools. He said the SC students were not getting scholarships either.
 
 The SAD-BJP leaders including Sukhbir, Sampla, Bikram Singh Majithia, Gulzar Singh Ranike, Parminder Singh Dhindsa, Sharanjit Singh Dhillon, Dr Daljit Singh Cheema, Anil Joshi, K D Bhandari, N K Sharma and Pawan Kumar Tinu were detained by the Chandigarh police while marching towards the Punjab assembly.
 
 
