Every hour, one child in   dialled for help from abuse and exploitation last year, with Chennai registering the most number of such calls. According to data compiled by  , of the nearly 22,000 calls its 1098 helpline received from March 2016 to April last year, close to 40% were to report child marriage, child labour, sexual and physical abuse. In 2012, requests for such interventions had accounted for less than 20% of the total calls.

 With 1,120 calls requiring intervention, Chennai’s children and public buzzed for help the most. While three in every four calls were to report a runaway child or a child beggar — the highest in the state — the helpline received 99 calls related to child labour and 32 for child marriages. Although this is low compared to other districts, activists said it was worrisome as the numbers were indicative. “These are members of the public and children themselves who sought help. There are kids who continue to suffer,” said an official in the state social welfare department.
 
  
  
 
 Social welfare officials along with volunteers of Childline intervened in 24 cases of child sexual abuse, 91 instances of physical abuse and helped 21 children who complained of corporal punishment. Sources in Childline said physical and sexual abuse interventions doubled in three years because of the increase in outreach programmes. “We don’t wait for a call to respond. Our links with various departments like railways and schools have resulted in more tip-offs,” said a staff of the organisation.
 
 Railway stations featured in at least 30% of the complaints from Chennai. Besides runaways, calls aided railway police to intercept eight child traffickers.  , state convener of   and faculty at  , said Chennai was a source, destination and transit point for traffickers. “While in Dharmapuri, Salem and Dindigul child trafficking for labour is prevalent, in Chennai we see higher number of children being trafficked for sex,” he said.
 
 Among the districts,   registered the highest number of calls related to child sexual abuse and begging, while   raced other districts in physical abuse and corporal punishment.
 
 S K  , social welfare officer in Villupuram, attributed high incidence of child sexual abuse to couples migrating out for work. “They take their younger children and leave the older ones with relatives. In 80% cases, the relatives turn out to be perpetrators,” said Lalitha. At least 15% were elopement. “Most of these children elope after the exam,” said another official.
 
 In garment hub Tirupur, physical abuse of children is high because migrant labourers are forced to work for long hours. “Alcoholism is high. There is barely any emotional bonding between family members,” said   I, who cited a recent instance of a couple attacking their four-year-old child with a hot iron box.
 
 Child rights activists say as unsettling as the narratives are, the fact that more children are calling for help is an encouraging sign.
 
