THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Sex trade going online in the state has become the biggest challenge for the   ( ) in its fight to properly deal with   positive cases as they are unable to track sex workers and provide them periodic check-ups and treatment. The society has sought the help of NGOs to track online sex workers and monitor their health. 

 “Now, 60 NGOs in the state are working for KSACS to track those who are involved in the online flesh trade and register them with our anti-retroviral centres. It is a big challenge since it is not easy to track them,” said Dr  , project director, KSACS.
 
 The mission of KSACS is target intervention and it has become difficult for us since the flesh trade is now happening through online. 
 
 “For this, we have engaged several NGOs who are tracking them. There are people who have changed into online trade from public prostitution. From them we are collecting details of others,” said Dr Ramesh.
 
 But the challenge before the KSACS is the fact that most of the people involved in the online trade are not interested in getting registered and undergo regular check-ups. HIV-positive people working with certain NGOs are trying hard to persuade them to get registered. 
 
 “From the roads, railway stations, bus stands and lodges, the modus operandi of flesh trade has changed. The new-age trade is thriving in major citys like Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Kannur and Kozhikode,” said the KSACS project director
 
  He further said: “In   and Kozhikode, we are getting reports of men-to-men  . The NGOs are concentrating in these areas too. But we are sceptical on how many can we track.” 
 
 As per our mission, every year we should find 25% of new HIV patients. But this has become difficult now since screening confines to occasions like voluntary blood donation, pregnancy test and surgery procedures. 
 
 The high-risk groups like women and men sex workers, migrant labourers, drug users and transgenders are being regularly monitored after they are registered with ARC centres, Dr Ramesh added. 
 
 At present Kerala has 30,253 HIV positives and the HIV prevalence rate is 0.12% when the national prevalence rate is 0.26%.
 
 
