LUCKNOW: As   intensified, many parts of  , including the state capital, recorded   of this year so far on Monday with maximum temperatures between 42-45 degrees Celsius. 

 
 
  
 No significant relief is likely on Tuesday. While most parts of the state are expected to remain dry in coming days, thunderstorm may lash isolated places in east UP on Wednesday and Thursday.
 
 In Lucknow, conditions became unbearable during the day on Monday with maximum temperature soaring to 42.6 degrees Celsius, three degrees above normal. Since relative humidity was also high, sultry conditions led to rise in the discomfort level. The concrete buildings all around and pollution made it feel like 45 degrees Celsius to the people on the streets. In fact, the weather on mobile phones too displayed 45 degrees Celsius at around 2.30pm. 
 
 The weather office has predicted no significant relief from soaring heat on Tuesday. While most parts of the state are expected to remain dry in coming days, thunderstorm may lash isolated places in east UP on Wednesday and Thursday The hot conditions may intensify further in the city on Tuesday with maximum and minimum temperature around 43 and 25 degrees Celsius respectively. However, a drop in mercury by 1-2 degrees is expected on Wednesday and Thursday.
 
 In comparison to the past few days, the condition was slightly better in the intervening night of Sunday and Monday with minimum temperature 25.8 degrees Celsius, a degree below normal.
 
 Earlier this month, highest maximum temperature in the city was 41.3 degrees Celsius, recorded on May 7, followed by 41 degrees Celsius on May 8.
 
 State MeT director JP Gupta said barring a couple of days, thunderstorms kept temperatures to normal or below normal level in the state this month. However, thunderstorm activity has declined considerably in the past two days, he added.
 
 "As a result, temperatures have started increasing. High temperatures coupled with high humidity due to moist easterlies currently blowing in the state, have led to rise in discomfort levels. Temperatures may rise further on Tuesday, but decline by a degree or two is expected on Wednesday and Thursday," he said.
 
 Monsoon is expected to touch Kerala coast on May 29 this year and if its advancement remained at the normal speed, it would arrive in UP and Lucknow between June 15-20.
 
 
 
