BENGALURU: Drama and rebel star M H Ambareesh are never far behind. Keeping the   on tenterhooks till the last day on Tuesday on whether he will pick up the Mandya ticket given to him or not, Ambareesh in an interaction with the media said his health and lack of energy were the reasons for him withdrawing. 

 The Congress had kept the ticket for him till Tuesday 10am after which it was given to Ganiga Ravi, a local Congress worker. After meeting   general secretary Karnataka in-charge K C Venugopal, who asked him to at least campaign for the party, Ambareesh said: "If I had the stamina, I would have contested the polls myself. I am 66 years old and the energy in me is waning. I am not former PM H D Deve Gowda who has the stamina to be in different places on a single day. Even if somebody gives me Rs 1 crore or Rs 10 crore, I cannot campaign," he said. 
 
 The Vokkaligga srongman said that had he announced early in the day that he was not keen to contest, his supporters would have exerted pressure on him to contest. "They had come in 50 cars from Mandya to convince me to contest. I sent them back saying I will come."
 
 The former minister was openly critical of the party giving the ticket to Ravi. "If I had a say, I would have stopped him at the toll gate, but that's not my nature. They could have given the ticket to former MP Ramya," he said. Setting the record straight on his confidant Amravathi Chandrashekar who was an aspirant for the ticket, the rebel star said he had asked Chandrashekar some time back, and he backed out. 
 
 "You need a month to prepare a candidate in a constituency unlike   who can contest from anywhere. He came on Monday and expressed his desire to be a candidate. Will I agree? If I had done, I would have had to campaign for him for which I don't have the energy." Ambareesh was equally critical of the CM contesting from Badami as well. "People will force you to contest from several constituencies. One should have the courage to turn it down and face the consequences of a victory or defeat. I don't agree to what Siddaramaiah did," he revealed.
 
