NEW DELHI: The   government produced statements of four judicial officers before the Supreme Court on Monday to clear the web of suspicion around the “untimely” death of judge B H   on December 1, 2014, when he was conducting trial in the Sohrabuddin Sheikh fake encounter case in which BJP chief   was an accused. 

 The four judicial officers, two of whom have since been appointed judges in the Bombay high court, have ruled out foul play in Loya’s death. Citing this, counsel for the Maharashtra government, senior advocate  , said, “The only way the Supreme Court can order inquiry is by rejecting the statements of additional district judges who were present with Loya from November 29, when they started from Mumbai for Nagpur to attend a wedding, till December 1, when Loya died of a heart attack.“These judges were with Loya like a shadow from November 29 till December 1, 2014. The viscera report is irrelevant. Four judges and the chief justice of the Bombay high court were informed immediately and they reached the hospital by 7 am, just half an hour after Loya had collapsed.” 
 
 Advocate Prashant Bhushan, who had tweeted about the viscera report suggesting poisoning or use of force against Loya, was present in the court with documents in hand, but he left without saying anything to the bench. Questioning the bona fide of petitioners, including lawyers’ associations from Mumbai, who kept silent for three years and rushed to the court seeking an independent inquiry only on the basis of a “patently false report in a magazine”, Rohatgi said, “Because a leader of the ruling party was an accused in the case, everything is being done in a motivated way to insinuate against the government and the judiciary.” 
 
 He said the petitioners had done a song and dance on the unfortunate natural death of a judge and lamented that even the Bombay HC’s administrative committee was not spared on the falsehood that the first trial judge in the Sohrabuddin case was transferred despite the apex court’s directive for a single trial judge. 
 
 “The truth is the trial commenced much after the transfer requested by the trial judge was given effect to,” he said. “If petitioners, most of whom are from Maharashtra, were so concerned about the death of a judge from their state, why did they keep silent for three years? Why did none of them feel any curiosity to inquire into the judge’s death even when he was trying the Sohrabuddin case? How did the entire thing suddenly become suspicious? None of them have any knowledge about what happened and are all citing the patently false magazine report to seek inquiry,” the senior advocate said. 
 
 Rohatgi said that, immediately after the magazine published the report on Loya’s allegedly suspicious death, the Maharashtra intelligence commissioner, on the asking of the state government, wrote to the Bombay HC chief justice seeking permission to inquire into the issue and question the judicial officers who were present with Loya. 
 
 “Since two of the judicial officers had since been appointed as judges of the HC, the CJ permitted questioning of judicial officers and not the HC judges,” he said. Rohatgi conceded that there were minor discrepancies in the statements of the judicial officers about Loya’s ECG and on who informed Loya’s family about his death. But he said that was no reason to disbelieve the judicial officers who stated that the death was natural. Appearing for a petitioner, senior advocate   said he had filed an application seeking cross-examination of the judicial officers and Loya’s family members, who have said they suspected no foul play. The SC said the application would be listed in due course.
