Panaji:   admits   have always been kind to him.
 
  Since being convinced by club legend Alvito D’Cunha to pack his bags for Kolkata, Cavin has had little to complain. The officials have been encouraging, fans have never really had anything bad to say, or do, and after six years at the club, the captain’s armband is now his to take.
  
  In what could possibly be East Bengal’s final year in the  , India’s premier club competition, before the proposed merger happens in 2019, Cavin knows what it would mean to finally win the big trophy for the big Kolkata club. As captain, he would be part of the club’s rich history.
  
  But, it is unlikely that he would prefer to walk down that road, particularly with former   (ISL) champions ATK breathing down his neck. Cavin was part of the ATK squad when they won the inaugural championship in 2014 and then went out on loan to   the next season. After two years out in the I-League, he is now pinning for a return to the  .
  
  “Honestly, I’ve not made up my mind. I’ve told all those who have approached me to wait till next week, but I think I will mostly play ISL,” said Cavin.
  
  The 30-year-old midfielder’s tilt towards the ISL is understandable. It’s the glamour league where almost all the top Indian players have been playing. He would still have preferred to continue with East Bengal, or any other worthy team in the I-League, but it’s the national team selection that played heavily on his mind.
  
  “I want to be regular with the national team. If you look at the team selection, it’s clear that even the national coach (Stephen Constantine) gives more importance to the ISL. I don’t want to be left out,” said the Goan midfielder.
  
  When Constantine picked probables for the final AFC Asian Cup 2019 qualifier against Kyrgyz Republic last month, only four I-League players found favour. Three of them -- Salam Ranjan Singh, Mohammed Rafique and Cavin himself – were from East Bengal, while Shillong Lajong midfielder Alen Deory also made the cut. Crucially, Alen and Rafique have already switched allegiance to Mumbai City FC for next season, while Rafique is set to join hands with ATK. Will Cavin remain I-League’s lone warrior?
  
  “For six years I have stayed with East Bengal and I have nothing to complain. They’ve always been good to me, and for a big club like them with such massive fan base, they deserve to be I-League champions.
  
  “I really don’t know why the club has been unable to become champions. Sometimes, I feel it’s purely down to bad luck. They’ve come close and you never know, next season, the club may finally taste success,” said Cavin.
  
  Whether Cavin remains part of East Bengal’s success, and history, remains to be seen.
