COIMBATORE: A day after seven   men were arrested for staging a   in front of the illegal   manufacturing unit at Kannampalayam and obstructing a policeman from carrying out duty, rural police detained several DMK cadre across the district, who tried to stage protest against the arrest on Wednesday.

 More than 500 DMK men laid siege to superintendent of police Pa Murthy’s office to protest against the arrest of their comrades. Led by former minister Pongalur N Palanisamy, the men gathered outside the office and raised slogans against the arrest, alleging that police had foisted the case under political pressure.
 
 Speaking to reporters, Palanisamy said that everyone was aware of the gutka case and the involvement of AIADMK minister C Vijayabhaskar and senior police officers. “CBI has already started an investigations into the case. Amidst this, Coimbatore police officers raided a godown in Kannampalayam a few days ago and unearthed an illegal gutka manufacturing unit. DMK men visited the place to check the irregularities. But false cases was slapped on them and they were arrested in the wee hours. The allegation of police that DMK party’s former panchayat president of Kannampalayam was involved in the setting up of the unit is false. If the cases are not withdrawn, we will conduct massive protests across Tamil Nadu,” he said.
 
 DMK working president   will visit Coimbatore on May 4 and stage a massive protest opposite the Red Cross Society if the cases are not withdrawn, party functionaries said. “Police have initiated action only because of the ruling party and the local minister,” said former corporation councillor SM Samy. CBI should also investigate the gutka unit case, he demanded.
 
 More than 155 DMK men, including 18 women, were detained for staging protests at Kinathukidavu, Pollachi, Sirumugai and Madhukkarai.
 
 Meanwhile, DMK MLA N Karthik, against whom police have filed a case, moved the court for anticipatory bail. Other functionaries involved in the case have also filed anticipatory bail petitions.
 
 Police said they would file a petition seeking the custody of the four workers of the gutka unit to more information.
 
 
