NAGPUR: On Friday afternoon when the   and   officials announced the cancellation of the proposed re-exam of Class 10 paper, thousands of parents and school authorities in city celebrated. 

 Sharad Agarwal, whose daughter Jiya had appeared for the exam, said, “I was watching the live press conference of HRD secretary in disbelief. Of course we wanted a cancellation, but that it would come so soon was a pleasant surprise.”
 
 Srishti’s father Amit Anand said CBSE’s decision was result of a collective agitation. “Parents and students across the country protested and showed the mirror to CBSE. It made them realize their blunder and they were forced to rectify it. Democracy won today as the public and media joined hands to save our academic future of kids.” 
 
 For Aditya Bhaiya’s daughter Disha the re-exam cancellation was a double delight. Not only did he get to finally see his daughter smiling, he also managed to avert a huge financial loss. “My international tour package of Rs8 lakh was completely non-refundable and the suspense over re-exam dates kept me on tenterhook. Now, with the exam being cancelled, we can all relax and start preparing for our family trip,” said Bhaiya. 
 
 His paternal cousin Jagdish had put on hold a 20-day tour to the US because of CBSE’s decision. “My daughter is a Std XII Economics student and at least we have an exact date for re-exam. So the travels plans could be made now keeping that in mind,” he said.
 
 Amit Khare (lawyer) said the government’s decision has come as a major relief for him and his daughter Ishita. “This was the result of parents across the country putting pressure on the government without which nothing would have happened. The government would have sensed the anger and taken the decision.”
 
 Apart from parents, school principals too heaved a sigh of relief as they had been fielding calls and queries on WhatsApp groups for the last couple of days. 
 
 Mrunalini Dasture, a senior academician, said, “I think we are more excited than students now. We were thinking of holding a meeting with students and parents in a bid to motivate them but now that won’t be needed now.”
 
 Br. Shine Alex, principal of Montfort School, said, “I appreciate the role played by media in enabling CBSE to reconsider their decision. Ultimately, they took a decision keeping the best interest of the child in mind.”
 
 
