GHAZIABAD: While Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation (GMC) has roped in an additional agency to rein in the menace of stray dogs and monkeys in the city, no provision whatsoever has been made for providing employment to hundreds of sanitation workers thrown out of work after the civic body introduced door-to-door municipal waste collection through vans last year. 

 The executive committee of the civic body cleared a proposal on Wednesday to hire an additional agency, selected through a tender, to conduct   of stray dogs at the rate of Rs 500 per surgery.
 
 Earlier, there was only one agency, the People for Animals ( ), to sterilise street dogs in the city. “The new agency belongs to a private veterinarian and the contract was awarded on the basis of a tender. The need for an additional agency was felt because groups of strays had entered areas, particularly urban colonies, where cent-percent sterilisation had already been conducted. The influx might have been from adjoining rural areas,” said municipal commissioner  .
 
 However, the budget estimate passed by the executive committee did not contain any provisions for jobless sanitation workers, mostly women, who had been proposed alternative employment avenues after the launch of the door-to-door municipal waste collection.
 
 “We are mostly unorganised and had been doing the jobs for the past several decades. We had met officials who had assured us that there would be alternate avenues of employment for us. We used to charge Rs 50 for each household from which we used to collect municipal waste. For several families, this was the only source of income,” said  , a sanitation worker from Sahibabad.
 
 According to the municipal corporation, these sanitation workers were not directly employed with it. 
 
 “We had undertaken a programme vide which names of all sanitation workers were registered with the municipal corporation. Finding out alternate sources of employment for these workers will be a policy matter. We will take this up with the board of GMC later,” Singh told TOI.
 
 
