Trichy: Those with intellectual disability and mental illness struggle a lot and therefore NGOs should provide adequate employability skills to those people, director of Organisation for Development Action (ODA), Lobithas has said. 

 He was speaking at a seminar on ‘Employability of persons with intellectual disabilities’ which is aimed at empowering people with intellectual disabilities by making them employable.
 
 “For people with intellectual disabilities, the focus should go beyond education and rehabilitation. The ultimate goal should be making them employable,” he said.
 
 Lobithas said that though several people with other kind of disabilities are educated, they do not get employment because the corporate sector has not been conducive for them. “Some corporates do not even have HR policies for people with disabilities,” he said. 
 
 He also added that the government should make sure that it employs maximum number of disabled people in public sector as promised. 
 
 “Though the allotted percentage for disability employment is 4%, only less than 2% have been recruited in the public sector,” he claimed. 
 
 Speaking of the occasion, Swedish employment officer and social worker, Margareta Fintling said that if a disabled person is not willing to take up a job irrespective of how good the offer is, he/she should not be forced to take it up.
 
 “A person with learning problem should only be given a simple job, while those with physical disabilities can be employed in places like restaurants, old age homes etc., depending on the level of disability,” Fintling, an officer from Arbetsförmedlingen, a Swedish government employment agency, said.
 
 She also provided insights to the participants on how employment is provided for people with different kinds of disabilities in Sweden. 
 
 They included how people are given vocational rehabilitation, about staff in the rehabilitation assignment, special initiatives and programmes for people with functional disabilities causing impaired work capacity and so on. “Bridging special schools and employment services is one of the major factors of success,” she said.
 
 Several special educators, field workers and parents also participated in the seminar.
 
 
