The area near   and  , has for years been a place where students congregate at Savitribai Phule Pune University ( ). It has seen batch after batch of students stage street plays, discussions, exhibitions, non-violent protests and even celebrate festivals and birthdays. On the flipside, this spot has also borne witness to fights and clashes between political student organisations. Citing the latter as one of the reasons, the varsity authorities have officially and indefinitely banned students against gathering for any sort of activity in a 100 metre radius of the spot from March 27. 

 Unhappy with the varsity’s decision, a group of students tried to stage a   againt the ban on Tuesday, but were stopped by security. The varsity has also made it clear in its circular to students, that anyone found flouting the new rule would face action from the local police. Here’s what students have to say about this development...
 
 Prityam Shiledar, a management student, agrees that protests near the canteen are a disturbance. “If students have a problem they can seek help from the college staff, the heads of departments and if that doesn’t work, then they can write to the grievances committee of the university and the vice chancellor. Instead of protesting, they should concentrate on studies and other social work,” he says. But not everyone agrees with that school of thought. While most students feel that this is an attack on their freedom, they agree that students should ensure that their activities — be it protests or plays — don’t disturb the peace on campus.
 
 Management student Gayatri Gangurde says, “I think the administration should abstain from banning any kind of protests, discussions or activities since it is a direct attack on the democracy of the students. Having said that, students too should limit their agitation and focus on studies.” Echoing the same thought, Santosh Salunkhe, a language student, adds, “The varsity should not restrict the activities of students and collegians should make it a point to ensure that their activities don’t affect other students.” Asking what sense a blanket ban makes, Shehal Warkar, a language student, says, “Bonding over food is a great way to mix with students. That is why sessions like   were held at the place. A blanket ban on all activities is unfair to students.”
 
  
 Nibita Ide from one of the student organisations on campus, points out that protesting on campus is a student’s democratic right. “With the newly laid terms and conditions, the varsity is attacking our right. Students need to be able to raise their voice on issues to get to know each other’s problems.” Aishwarya Bhange, another student organisation representative, adds, “Being a central place, many students visit it during lunch and dinner and get to know what we are working on or what issues we are highlighting which are beneficial for them. Considering this, the ban should be lifted.”
 
 
 
 In their official letter informing students about the ban, the varsity had also specified that students would be allowed to conduct their protests and other activities in the area near Sanvidhan Smarak (near the university main building). But students are not too happy with the choice of the place. Ruksana Patil Shaikh, a student of politics, says, “The place provided by the varsity is of no use to us. Students hardly venture there.” Satish Gore, a language student, asks, “The newly allotted space is not appropriate for any activity. Barely any students go to that area. What impact will it have if we conduct an activity there?”
 
 
 
 
