MUMBAI: From this year on, private publishers and tutorials will have to cough up to Rs 63,000 per subject per year to use content from   board   to create supplementary resource material. In its   policy,  , the state’s textbook bureau, has asked publishers to obtain a licence, which will have to be renewed every year.

 Earlier this year, the state government announced that it would copyright its textbooks and interested private tutorial owners and publisher would have to pay a licence fee for preparation of material for print, digital or tuition class content, for Classes I to X. “Many publishers have utilized the learning material developed by Balbharati in print and digital form for their respective commercial purposes. In order to support and encourage content creators who have the ability and intent to respect policy and honour compliances and discourage illegal practices and practitioners, Balbharati has decided to levy a licence fee for the usage of its print and digital content(s) which will be utilized for education related purposes,” said the policy uploaded on the Balbharati website on Friday.
 
 
  
 Interested players can opt for three types of   —print, tutorial and digital with a fee of Rs 63,000, Rs 35,000 and Rs 31,000, respectively, per year per subject. An application would have to be made to Balbharati and violation may result in users being sued or blacklisted from further use. “The publishers and tutorial classes are using textbook content and making a profit out of it. Hence, we have decided to charge a royalty if they use our content and avoid unfair usage. We have made several changes to the textbook and students no longer need to use guides,” said Sunil Magar, director of Balbharati. 
 
 As a result, neither private publishers nor coaching institutes will be able to publish free of cost any supporting study material that they provide to students. Publishers and tutorial class owners have therefore deemed the move unfair. “The textbooks are a compilation of works of many literary legends and scientific discoveries which are free to use. So how does the Balbharati hold a copyright to this?” said Narendra Nandu, president, Bombay Booksellers and Publishers' Association. The association had written to the government to include a few publishers in the panel that drafted the policy but had not been heard.
 
 Small publishers and those producing content for the vernacular medium are likely to be most hit by a move which some copyright experts are describing as contentious (see graphic). Earlier this year, international publishers Oxford University Press, Cambridge University Press and Taylor and Francis withdrew a suit filed in Delhi high court against Delhi University and Rameshwari Photocopy Service for copyright violation. The publishers alleged that the photocopy kiosk was causing financial losses as students had stopped buying their textbooks.
 
 “The government expects all publishers to pay over Rs 71,000 per year per subject inclusive of taxes. How is it fair to charge all businesses the same amount? We aren’t against a policy but it must be reasonable and must depend on the size of a business. The burden of this would finally be on the students who will have to cough up higher amounts for the guides,” said Ravi Bhatia, director of Navjivan Publications and member of the Association of Publishers and Distributors, Mumbai. The policy has exempted businesses with a turnover of up to Rs 10 lakh from paying for licenses. 
 
 
