 presents a small picture of the extensive problem in the country where almost 91% of the collected waste is dumped in open lands (as per some literatures). Over the years, the garbage started pouring out of the scientific landfill and slowly neighboured closer to those who generated it.

 The biggest breach, that saw the beginning of all the problems at Bhandewadi, was unscientific dumping of city’s municipal solid waste. Recalls an official from the   ( ), “Earlier, all the waste would be dumped inside the scientific landfill. The mess began when a massive fire destroyed the plastic and recycling unit and a part of the segregation unit of private agency M/s Hanjer Biotech Energies.”
 
 The fire took place on February 14, 2012. After some months, the plant resumed its operation and started treating 200 out of the 900 metric tonne of waste that would be generated daily at that time. “In absence of a proper treatment, the trash started piling up,” adds the official.
 
 When every inch of the “around 50-55 acre” land having the scientific landfill got covered in heaps of waste, the civic body conveniently shifted dumping to a nearby land. “Earlier, only construction and debris waste would be stored at this 50-acre land. NMC’s slaughterhouse was also operating at the same place,” says an official.
 
 Today, the land is drowning in unsegregated garbage which is frequently on fire. It is not known whether NMC obtained authorization from the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board ( ) to dump garbage here. However, as per the environment ministry’s norms, open dumping is illegal. The Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, clearly state that the municipal solid waste should only go to a scientific landfill.
 
 Due to the under-performance of plant and over-burdening of landfill site, the waste started spreading out haphazardly. “This was the crux of the problem. A large part of the waste, which was not being treated, was dumped in the surrounding areas. With this, the buffer zone which should be mandatorily maintained around the site, started reducing in area. At present, there is zero buffer zone at some places while at others, houses are 50, 100 or some more meters away from the garbage heaps,” says Kaustav Chatterjee, founder of NGO Green Vigil. 
 
 According to residents, the problem of air pollution and contamination of groundwater increased as the garbage edged closer to their houses. “There have been incidences when burning polythene bags have flown into our houses,” they say. 
 
 The problems would have never happened if NMC had implemented segregation at source says Right to Information ( ) activist Ankita Shah. Documents available with her reveal that MPCB had many-a-time pulled up NMC for unscientific waste dumping. 
 
 “The board officials visited the site and found that huge quantity of waste is dumped on open land in unscientific and unhygienic manner,” states a prosecution notice which was issued by the board to mayor and NMC commissioner on September 6, 2014. 
 
 On January 13, 2017, MPCB chairman   issued directions to municipal commissioner. “The National Green Tribunal has directed all authorities to take note of the fact that rules recognize only a landfill site and not dumping site,” the letter stated. 
 
 
