NEW DELHI: Ahead of the second semifinal of the India Super League between FC Goa and   on Tuesday, former India footballer   has praised both franchises for their inspiring performances season. Bhutia, writing in today's TOI column had good things to say about both teams. While he lauded Goa's positive attitude of having made it to the final four despite suffering a blip, the former footballer feels Chennaiyin have been hurting a little considering they have no one who serving as an X-factor who could win matches.

 
 
 
 "Chennaiyin have been consistent all throughout. They are a team who back each other up and the camaraderie has been excellent. Discipline stays their forte and it’s not easy to break them down," Bhutia, who scored 42 goals in 107 appearances, said. "However, Chennai badly misses that individual match-winner who can in that split second of magic turn the table upside down. Sometimes, that becomes a bit too decisive."
 
 
 
 
 Bhutia said that Goa's remarkable comeback seems to have added an extra layer of spunk in their approach, and with over 40 goals, the side will be hard to contain.
 
 "Goa had suffered a mid-season slump but eventually qualified, and in quite some style. I have been a big fan of FC Goa’s playing style this season. The team is capable of playing fluent attacking football, simple but effective. They are a team who are hard to contain and if you look at their scoring chart, you will understand it better," Bhutia said.
 
 "They have scored 42 goals so far, the highest among all teams. Ferran Corominas and Manuel Lanzarote have scored 30 among themselves with Corominas topping the charts at 18. Perhaps, this doesn’t need any more explanation. But at the same time the scoring charts point out that they have conceded 28 in the group stages. It’s an open secret that defence has been Goa’s worry and if that wasn’t enough, individual goalkeeping errors have added to their woes."
 
 I feel that’s where the charm of this match lies. Goa love to play at a rhythm and can open up any defence. Will a stubborn Chennai be able to hold them? The crowd at Fatorda can be intimidating at times for away teams, and Chennai can at no time allow Goa to settle down. Somehow I feel they would rather be happy to keep it to a draw and try to finish is at the backyard in the second leg. But you are sure to see goals in the match."
 
