Chennai: Chepauk is set to witness non-stop T20 action over the next three months. While   ( ) will return after a space of two years in the IPL, the third edition of the   ( ) will carry forward the T20 flavour from the first week of June.

 
 
 With CSK scheduled to play their last home match of the season on May 20, the Tamil Nadu Cricket Association (TNCA) has decided to conduct its own T20 extravaganza two weeks after the IPL season concludes.
 
 The last TNPL was held from July 22 till August-end. However, a top TNPL official said they felt June would be the right time for them given the T20 fever persisting in the state. “CSK is back and the place is buzzing. We felt first week of June would be an ideal time and also took the viewership into consideration. The availability of the ground won’t be an issue as well with the IPL matches ending in May. The dates will be confirmed soon and the tournament is set to go on till the first week of July,” the official told TOI.
 
 A maximum of three players can be retained and the retention list has to be submitted before April 15. It is also understood that the Player Draft is expected to be held in the first/second week of May. While the first two TNPL seasons featured three venues — Chepauk, IC Ground (Tirunelveli) and NPR College Ground (Dindigul) — the third edition could see Coimbatore as the new addition.
 
 The official mentioned that they are evaluating the possibilities of having SNR College, Coimbatore, as one of the venues. In fact, there is a franchisee with Coimbatore as their base — Lyca Kovai Kings. “It’s one of the grounds that’s been on our radar for a while now. We will be inspecting it and then take a final decision,” he added.
 
 TNPL-3:
 
 Schedule: June-July
 
 Retention: Each team will be eligible to retain up to 3 players such that not more than 1 player who has represented in international matches and 1 player has represented in senior domestic tournaments from the squad of 2017 season. The retention list has to be submitted before April 15.
 
 Player registration: Forms will be available at the TNCA office and in its website from April 15. All registrations should be submitted before April 30.
 
 Salary cap:
 
 A category (nat’l players): Rs 5 lakh/4 lakh/3 lakh; B category (1st-class players & those who haven’t played BCCI tournaments but have played more than 75% of TNPL league games in last two years): Rs 2.5 lakh/2 lakh/1.5lakh; C category: (Other players)1 lakh/75lakh/50lakh; Player draft: First/second week of May.
 
 Team composition criteria: Each team can comprise of 22 players. * Minimum size of the squad is 18 players; * Minimum of 2 players who have represented districts; * Minimum of 2 players who are below 19 years as of 1st September 2018.
 
 
