NEW DELHI: BJP MP Shatrughan Sinha’s latest tweets make him sound like a Congressman, a 'pucca' one.

 In them, he referred to “the great emergence of newly appointed president INC Rahul Gandhi”, “man of all seasons" RS Surjewala, "friend" Anand Sharma, "intellectual" P   and the "ultimate charmer of substance & mind blowing mass leader of all time" NS Sidhu”.
 
 The Bollywood star-turned-politician had more praise for Congress president Rahul, calling his speech on Sunday at the Congress plenary, “powerful”.
 
 In that speech, Rahul likened the BJP – of which Sinha is a member – to the “power-hungry Kauravas” of the Mahabharata and said that the poor, the destitute and farmers “are destined to live in (Narendra) Modi's ‘maya', in an imaginary world of 'acche din' and Swachh Bharat”.
 
 On Sunday, too, after the Congress plenary session, Sinha hailed the “impressive show of strength by Mrs. (Sonia) Gandhi & Rahul Gandhi in Delhi”, which he said is good for India.
 
  
  
 He then gave credit for the “emergence” of the Gandhi scion to Sonia, former PM   and other senior Congress leaders.
 
  
  
  
  
 Over the last couple of years, the BJP MP from Patna Sahib has been a dissenting voice within the party and has often attacked PM Modi none-too-subtly for his style of governance and decision making.
 
 After the BJP lost the recently held by-elections in Phulpur and Gorakhpur, Sinha took to Twitter to mock the deputy chief minister of Uttar Prasad Keshav Prasad Maurya for “failing to gauge public mood” and predicting a wrong winning margin.
 
  
  
 Interestingly, in addition to sounding like a Congressman, Sinha has on many occasions given the impression he may be an AAP member in the making.
 
 He has often backed AAP over its several contentious issues with the Centre, the latest issue being the ‘office of profit’ row, where Sinha hoped the party gets “divine justice” for 20 of its MLAs in Delhi who are facing disqualification.
 
  
  
 Sinha has expressed his admiration for AAP supremo   and has called him a “mass leader” and a “man of credibility”.
 
  
  
 The filmstar-turned-politicians also almost gave a clean chit to the Delhi CM in the case of alleged assault on chief secretary Anshu Prakash and called it an attempt to “divert attention away from PNB scam”.
 
  
  
 
