After a glorious run of 51 days across 17 cities of India, the historic event   drew to a colourful close on Sunday.

 Devendra Fadnavis, Chief Minister, Maharashtra, was the Chief Guest at the closing ceremony.  , Minister of State (I/C), Ministry of Culture, and eminent theatre & film personality Shri   were Guests of Honour at the closing ceremony.
 
  
   , Chief Minister, Maharashtra
 
 Shri Ratan Thiyam, Artistic Director, 8th Theatre Olympics, and Arjun Deo Charan, Acting Chairman, National School of Drama Society were among the dignitaries present at the event. Theodoros Terzopoulos, Chairman of the International Committee of Theatre Olympics, M L Srivastava, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Culture and actor   were special guests at the closing ceremony. Waman Kendre, Director, National School of Drama, was also present on the occasion.
 
 “We get many chances to show our strength and potentials, but 8th Theatre Olympics has given us unprecedented opportunity to show the power of our culture,” said Waman Kendre.
 “I wish the Indian theatre with support of Indian government should dominate the world. The 9th Theatre Olympics will be jointly organised by   and Japan,” said Theodoros Terzopoulos.
 
  
  Nana Patekar
 
 Nana Patekar said, “I am really happy that Prof. Waman Kendre has taken theatre to another platform. I appreciate your work and thanks that you kept theatre alive, thanks for being associated with theatre for so long in all possible manner.” 
 
 “I thank Dr Mahesh Sharma and NSD to have selected Mumbai to organise the final phase of Theatre Olympics. Maharashtra is known as birthplace of cinema but actually much before that Maharashtra has been the centre for theatrical activities. Our theatre will flourish from generation to generation. Without even the technical aspects of movies, theatre is able to create the effect through acting, and hence our theatre will never die,” said Devendra Fadnavis.
 
  
  Mahesh Sharma, Minister of State (I/C), Ministry of Culture
 
 ‘Rang Shikhar’, a vibrant collage of tribal, folk and theatre performances, followed the closing ceremony. Renowned actors Nawazuddin Siddiqui, Manoj Joshi, Himani Shivpuri, Sachin Khedekar, along with ventriloquist and puppeteer Ramdas Padhye, Bharatnatyam dancer Sandhya Purecha and Lavani dancer Vaishali Jadhav, performed at the presentation.
 
 The 8th Theatre Olympics was inaugurated by Hon’ble Vice President of India, Shri Venkaiah Naidu on 17th February 2018 at the   in New Delhi. This edition of Theatre Olympics brought together around 25,000 artists under the theme “Flag of Friendship”. The event witnessed 450 shows from more than 30 countries, across 17 cities such as Agartala, Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Bhopal, Bhubaneswar, Chandigarh, Chennai, Guwahati, Imphal, Jaipur, Jammu, Kolkata, Mumbai, New Delhi, Patna, Thiruvananthapuram, and Varanasi during the festival.
 
  
  
 The 51-day long 8th Theatre Olympics, the biggest international theatre festival, which was held in India for the first time, staged more than 400 plays and hosted 78 allied events including 34 Living Legend series, 29 Master Classes, 7 Interfaces, 6 national and international seminars and 2 workshops across 17 cities. Besides, about 600 ambience performances and 250 youth forum shows took place during the nationwide event.
 
  
 
