Ludhiana: Three years of planning have yielded almost nothing so far as the Smart City plan goes. It is quite shocking that the Ludhiana Smart City Limited could bring only three projects on ground while rest of the projects are still at the planning stage. Even out of those three projects, only the installation of solar panels has started while LED street lights and road signage projects are yet to take off. 

 The officials though blamed the technical hiccups and other constraints behind the delay in the execution of the projects but the city could not achieve the tag of a smart city. The LED street light project is likely to start from May 1 as a survey on the existing condition of street lights is on. 
 
 In a meeting of district level review and monitoring committee of urban development, the officials put up a status report of developmental projects proposed under the  , Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transmission (AMRUT), Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna and Swachh Bharat mission on Thursday. 
 
 Ludhiana MP Ravneet Bittu, MLAs Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Sanjay Talwar and Kuldeep Singh Vaid, mayor Balkar Sandhu and senior deputy mayor Sham Sunder Malhotra conducted a meeting with the civic officials in which deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal and MC commissioner Jaskiran Singh were also present. The officials have been asked to expedite the process and start maximum projects in next six months. 
 
 Bittu said, “We have decided to review the status of these projects every month and we will take one or two meetings but in case the status of projects does not change, then we will have to fix the responsibility and take action against the responsible officials.” 
 
 Ashu however said there is no scarcity of funds under smart city mission but it is due to hiccups and technical reasons the projects got delayed. He said they will now follow up the projects every month for achieving the results. 
 
 Highlights of the meeting
 
 Bittu was very anxious during the meeting and his only query from the civic officials was regarding the execution of the projects. Since the Lok Sabha polls are due in 2019 but the smart city projects haven’t yet taken off till date that seems to have created tension among the Congress leaders. Even Ashu pulled up the officials saying that not even a single work (for which the foundation stone was laid by chief minister Amarinder Singh or local bodies minister Navjot Sidhu) has started and now people have started comparing them with Akali leaders. 
 
 The Congress MLAs Rakesh Pandey and Surinder Dawar were absent from this meeting while the MLA from Gill Kuldeep Vaid was present though his area doesn’t come under MC. The rejuvenation of Buddha Nallah has also been included in the list of smart city projects and now the AECOM company would conduct yet another technical study regarding drain. 
 
 The officials also suggested to construct a foot over bridge outside the inter-state Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar bus terminal so that pedestrians could cross the road without putting their lives to risk due to fast moving traffic. They continued playing with projects like public toilets as earlier the project was taken up under smart city mission but it was dropped at the last moment due to certain objections raised by the senior officials. Then it was suggested to take up the project under swachh bharat mission but now again officials have taken up the project under smart city mission because there are no funds under SBM. Around 96 units of public toilets are to be constructed in the city for public convenience and only then MC can declare the city open defecation free. 
 
 The site for the construction of integrated command and control room has been shifted once again and it has been proposed to construct the building in the vacant space adjoining the MC D zone office so that officials could monitor the work at the place. Earlier the planning was to construct ICCC at the terrace of D zone office and then inside the deserted building of squash court. The MLAs suggested to construct the new meeting hall of MC and some of the offices at the similar place
 
 The MLAs asked the officials to make 25 tube wells constructed under phase 1 of AMRUT scheme functional before June so that people in 24 wards should get the water supply in the summer. 
 
 
