Aurangabad: The civic body on Monday assured the   of the   that it would not dump garbage outside the city and that it is planning to process it at the source within the municipal limits.

 The assurance came during a hearing by the bench comprising   and S M Gavhaneon on a petition submitted by the residents and institutions from the Kanchanwadi/Golwadi area against the dumping of solid waste in their vicinity.
 
 The AMC’s lawyer, Rajendra Deshmukh, informed the court about a recent meeting chaired by principal secretary  , when the civic body and the government authorities took many decisions, including segregation and processing of garbage at the source itself. 
 
 While placing the next date of hearing on March 19, the court asked the   to file an affidavit mentioning the details of disposal and methods of processing.
 
 Pradnya Talekar, representing the Golwadi-Kanchanwadi residents and institutions, said the AMC is dumping mixed solid waste at the land situated at Gut No. 7 and 8 of Kanchanwadi village without any provision for landfill and with complete exposure to air, water and soil in utter violation of rules.
 
 “The AMC is dumping mixed solid waste while being unmindful of its physical, social, and environmental impact on the health and psyche of the residents of the area, which is leading to composting of bio-degradable waste and reuse of cloth, plastic and other waste after processing, as mandated by the SWM Rules, 2016,” said the petitioners. 
 
 “The AMC is dumping the waste without taking any approval from Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) or the Airport Authority of India, which is necessary since the site in question is within 20 km from the airport.”
 
 Talekar argued that many educational institutions and hospitals are situated closer to Gut no. 7 and 8 of Kanchanwadi. It is violative of right to health of the residents and patients as the site is situated less than 150 meters from the Shanti Nursing Home, which is a 70-bed hospital
 
 “The AMC move is also violative of right to health of the students, employees and patients in the Ayurvedic, dental and polymethine institutions run by the Chattrapati Shahu Shikshan Sanstha having a strength of nearly 8,000 students and employees, out of which nearly 10% are resident students. The dumping site is situated less than 500 meters from these institutions,” said the petition. 
 
 
