HYDERABAD: Impressed by trained Belgian Malinois dogs for assault operations, including anti-terror operations, by   police,   officers have suggested to state intelligence sleuths to set up an exclusive assault dog breeding centre. Intelligence sleuths have now adopted American security agencies’ technique of giving remote instructions to avoid loss of life in terror operations.

 Telangana police are still mulling whether to have a breeding centre or not since the Belgian Malinois are extremely ferocious and handling too many such canines might become difficult. As of now, anti-terror commando unit   has been given the assault dogs. Usually, BSF personnel use these canines while patrolling the frontier areas, especially India-Pakistan border, to trace terror suspects. The border force has expertise in rearing and handling such dogs.
 
  
  
 
 BSF officials, after seeing the trained assault dogs of OCTOPUS, opined that they were of high quality. “We actually do not need a breeding centre for assault dogs as they are used in rarest of rare cases like terror operations. As  , we need a large number of friendly dogs, not the assault ones,’’ credible sources told TOI.
 
 Police dogs, trained for assault operations, were first inducted into the force two years ago and every year they were adding two canines to the squad. Now, they were training these canines to respond to remote instructions given by its handler using various communication gadgets ,including very high frequency (VHF) set or any other communication devices kept in a bag, while handling dreaded criminals, including terrorists. “This technique was started by American security forces. In the extreme situations, to avoid human loss, a dog will be sent to handle the situation and face any eventuality,’’ the sources added. An assault dog successfully reacted to instructions from a VHF set during a demo of a terror operation at the ‘Dikshant Parade’ of the 17th batch of Canines and Canine handlers on Monday.
 
