Jaipur’s Class X CBSE topper,  , who scored 494 marks out of 500, believes that marks don’t define students, but they do open important doors. Yana got 100 in Mathematics, Science, Social Science and Sanskrit, and 94 in English. “I don’t think marks define students or are an indication of one’s intelligence. But I do feel they open important doors, especially when you want an admission in a good institute. I feel one should give their 100% in whatever they are doing,” says an elated Yana, who is a resident of Shyam Nagar. 

 
 
 
 So how does she feel to be a city topper? Yana says, “I expected good marks as I had been consistently performing well in my school tests but being a city topper is something that I hadn’t expected. In fact, I was shocked when I got to know about this. When the results were declared, I didn’t know that my scores were the highest in Jaipur. It is when I went to one media organisation along with my few of my other friends and classmates for an interview that I got to know about this achievement. I am glad my friends were there with me at that time with whom I could share my happiness. While some said, ‘Humein toh pata hi tha tu achcha score karegi,’ a few others told me, ‘Congratulations. Though, we are feeling a little jealous.’ But I didn’t mind that. I can understand their feelings as everybody wants to be a topper.” 
 
  
  
 Yana used to plan the number of hours she would dedicate to a particular subject. “If I was studying Social Studies – which I used to find a little boring – I would dedicate four to five hours, and sometimes even six,” she says.
 
 
 
 
 Yana has opted for Humanities as her current stream and is also preparing for CLAT (Common Law Admission Test) exam simultaneously. “I want to get into a legal profession,” she says. The 15-year-old is not on social media and was without a phone until recently when her father gifted her a mobile phone after she enrolled herself in a city-based coaching institute to prepare for CLAT. She doesn’t even have plans to make an account on the social media platforms, anytime soon. “It just doesn’t interest me. I feel a lot of one’s crucial time gets wasted on such platforms. Though, I use WhatsApp,” she says. 
  
  
 
 
 
 Ask her if she has got any gift from her parents. “They are eager to gift me something and have been asking me for the same. But honestly, I am yet to decide as I think I have almost everything, right from gadgets to pretty clothes,” she says with a laugh. As of now, it is holiday time for Yana as she is in Kullu and Manali with her family. “I needed a break before I resume my studies,” says Yana.
 
 
 
