KOLKATA: Well into the middle of his 14-minute   speech, state finance minister Amit Mitra unveiled a pension scheme for 2 lakh disabled people in Bengal, which would give each one of them Rs 1,000 every month. The annual cost to the state exchequer would be Rs 240 crore. Mitra named the scheme “Manabik” (or “humanitarian”) and said it was chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s “gift to the people of Bengal”.

 This one new scheme — down to its name — could sum up the budget Mitra presented in the state assembly on Wednesday. Focused firmly on the agriculture sector, women and the socially and economically underprivileged — not necessarily in that order — the Trinamool Congress government set aside Rs 2,000 crore of its budget for 2018-2019 for these sections. The year, significantly, will also see Bengal’s villages go to vote for the three-tier panchayat elections.
 
 That Bengal would be going to the village local-body polls this summer was, obviously, left unsaid in the budget speech. But another bit, probably far more important as a political message, was left unsaid as well: all the “humanitarian” aspects of the budget focused on sections that, according to Trinamool, had been hit hard by the Narendra Modi government’s economic policies. Mitra’s budget, in that sense, was an attempt at presenting a model alternative to the BJP-led centre’s policy prescriptions.
 
 Mitra’s Rs-2,14,958-crore budget unveiled, besides Manabik, a host of other social-assistance programmes for primarily farmers and women: there was  , a Rs-1,500-crore scheme for girls marrying after 18; a Rs-160-crore programme that would give old and poor farmers enhanced monthly pension; a Rs-100-crore corpus for farmers to prevent distress sale of land; waiver of agricultural income tax for tea sector; and waiver of mutation fees for farmers selling agricultural land for agricultural purpose.
 
 Mitra’s budget, essentially an expenditure budget, took the cue from the political narrative that his CM delivered a couple of hours ago at Trinamool’s extended core committee meeting. It also comes at a time when the Centre’s Economic Survey calls for “a radical follow-up action to address agricultural distress”. All this indicated an attempt to counter the BJP’s “minority appeasement” charge by carving out direct-benefit transfers to disadvantaged sections from all castes.
 
 The finance minister did not forget the middle class in urban and rural areas either, slashing 1% from stamp duty for buying properties worth up to Rs 1 crore, at a time when national agencies have projected an additional 15 million jobs in realty and construction in the next five years; prospective buyers, thus, get an effective relief of Rs 1 lakh.
 
 Mitra also allocated Rs 5,007 crore for the public works department for revamping both urban and rural infrastructure, a key to fetching investments. Some of the city projects include building flyovers (Taratala-Tollygunge-Jadavpur, Manicktala, Ganesh Avenue).   herself later announced that her government was identifying Rajarhat land to set up an IT hub called Silicon Valley Asia.
 
 Fund allocation for all departments have increased to a large extent because of the clubbing of plan and non-plan expenditure from this financial year, which is likely to give the state government more elbow room to manage finances. There has also been a rise in the projected state tax revenue in the GST regime despite criticism over the hasty switch-over plus a marginal increase in the state’s non-tax revenue. All this still leaves an estimated deficit of Rs 1,850 crore between the state’s income and expenditure for the next six months.
 
 The finance minister said compensating the deficit was “a constitutional liability of the Centre”. “We have received Rs 1,000 crore from the Centre as of now and Rs 850 crore more is pending. The Centre has also shifted the fund disbursal date to the state from the first day of a month to the 15th, though states have to make salary payments to employees on the first day,” Mitra said.
 
 The budget also reveals that the state plan has taken a hit of Rs 4,000 crore. The proposed allocation of Rs 64,847 crore in 2017-18 (budget estimate) had to be brought down to Rs 60,094 crore (revised estimate).
 
 But, even as the outgo on debt services is on the rise, Mitra has been able to bring down the debt-to-GSDP ratio from 40.3% of the Left regime to 33.7% now.
 
