A walk through the corridors of   in Parel would help understand India’s diversity. Patients from across the country can be found waiting outside the   and wards. But there is a flip side to this overcrowding: Long queues for consultation, radiation and surgery. For patients, it means they have to leave their homes and income for six months or more to stay in Mumbai.

 The hospital, which functions under the department of atomic energy, has been working on various initiatives to “decentralize” cancer therapy. From offering   to education modules, the hospital is trying to popularize uniform treatment plans so that patients don’t have to travel to Parel. “We have started offering medical education modules online. Also, doctors don’t have to leave their practice to pick up new skills,” said Tata Memorial Hospital’s professor Dr Pankaj Chaturvedi. Some of the initiatives:
 
  
 
 An initiative of the department of atomic energy, the National Cancer Grid (NCG) was set up in August 2012 to offer uniform cancer care across the country. At present, it has 131 members that include hospitals, medical associations and patient groups. “The NCG centres treat approximately 60% of all cancer patients in India,” said Tata Memorial Centre’s professor Dr C S Pramesh. This means that all doctors in the institutes that are NCG members offer the same treatment.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The Virtual Tumor Board meetings are held twice a week with up to 25 centres and 120 participants discussing complex cancer treatment online. “So far, over 500 patients’ treatment decisions have been discussed through the virtual tumor boards,” said Dr Pramesh. These discussions not only help treatment of individual patients, they also provide experience for doctors in managing similar patients in the future.
 
 
 
 Tata Hospital doctors, along with experts from hospitals that are NCG members, offer second opinion services to patients. The service was started in 2015, with the second opinion coming through in 24 hours. “The service has already given second opinions to 18,000 patients in the last two years,” said Gitika Srivastava, who started the service after a family member was affected by the disease. While doctors offer the opinion for free, a token fee is charged to maintain a backend office. It’s USP is that patients don’t need to travel to Mumbai or larger cities to seek opinion from leading doctors.
 
 
 
 Set up a couple of years ago, Maharashtra Cancer Warriors is a group of cancer specialists who have been trained at Tata Memorial Hospital and are currently occupied in various state-run district hospitals, “These doctors offer voluntary services in the field of cancer prevention, detection and screening. Currently, there are 55 such specialists,” said Dr Chaturvedi. 
 
 
