CHANDIGARH:   on Monday held its annual award ceremony to honour various city-based writers, authors and novelists at Museum and Art Gallery, Sector 10, Chandigarh. 

 Punjab governor and UT administrator V P Singh Badnore was the chief guest on the occasion and gave away prizes to the recipients. 
 
 The event was felicitated by Madhav Kaushik, chairman of Chandigarh Sahitya Akademi, where as many as 31 individuals, all belonging to different professions and walks of life, were honoured for their contribution to literature.
 
 As many as five recipients out of hundreds of applications were given 'Award of Recognition', as an equivalent of a lifetime achievement award. They are Santosh Dhiman (Hindi), Manmohan (Punjabi), Shelley Walia (English),   ( Sanskrit) and Madhukar Arya (Urdu). The awardees were given mementos along with a cash prize of Rs 51,000 each. 
 
 In the second category 'Book of the Year Award' a cash prize of Rs 25,000 along with a memento was awarded to eight city-based writers, poets and novelists. The recipients are namely Pratima Shrivastava (English novel), Dheera Khandelwal (Hindi poetry), Om Prakash Sondhi (Hindi novel), Mayank Mishra (Hindi story), Pramila Gupta (Hindi translation), Goverdhan Gabbi (Punjabi story), Subhash Sharma (Punjabi drama) and Jang Bahadur Goyal (Punjabi translation).
 
 In a gesture of support as many as 18 shortlisted candidates from numerous applications were provided with 'grant-in-aid' of Rs 15,000 each to help them in getting their literary works published in any categories such as novel, poetry, short-story, translation, children's literature and drama in any of the five accepted languages - Hindi, English, Urdu, Punjabi and Sanskrit. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, secretary of Chandigarh Sahitya Akademi Jaspal Singh said, "The akademi wishes to support budding poets, writers, short-story writers and novelists based in City Beautiful. They can be from any profession or age, who contribute in any of the five languages. However, this time no entries (manuscripts) came in Urdu or Sanskrit for the 'Book of the Year' category."
 
 
