The latest episode of   made the contestants realise the importance of water.

 The episode started with the nomination task. In the previous episode, a task was given to all the contestants, according to which, the contestants had to destroy the photo of the co-contestant which they have been given by the Bigg Boss. Already,  ,  ,  , Jui and Rutuja were nominated as their photos were destroyed.
 
 More two contestants were to be nominated for the week. So, in the current episode, Aastad destroyed the photo of Sushant. Aastad justified the act by saying, that Sushant is missing his family, so he has destroyed Sushant’s photo.
 
 Then the buzzer rang for the last time. But no one destroyed a single photo. Bigg Boss warned the housemates to nominate any one contestant. Finally Sushant nominated Pushkar.
 
 The list of nominated contestants for this week’s elimination are Resham, Rajesh, Sai, Jui, Rutuja, Aastad and Pushkar.
 
 The next day started with no water supply in the house. There was no water even in the washrooms. So everyone requested Bigg Boss to start the water supply.
 
 Then Bigg Boss called Megha and explained to her that the house has been given a new task. The name of the task was ‘Thembe Thembe Tale Saache’.
 
 According to this new task, the 12 members in the house were divided into two teams. Aastad, Sai, Rutuja, Usha, Megha, and Pushkar were in one team. And Rajesh, Resham, Smita, Jui, Bhushan, and Sushant were in the other team. Each team was given a drum and a pot. They had to collect the drinking water in the pot whereas the water which is required for the household chores was to be collected in the drum. Also, the teams were given one bucket each to fill the water in the pot and the drum.
 
 Both the teams were strictly warned of not get physical rather play it cleverly.
 
 But during the task, the two teams ended up fighting with each other and both the buckets were also broken during the task.
 
 Everyone was pulling each other during the task and in this Sai fell down and injured herself. She was asked to come to the confession room, where a doctor was there for her checkup.
 
 Finally Bigg Boss announced that the task was over for the day.
 
 
