PUNE: A downward revision by Rs 290 crore, in the cost estimate for the 24X7 water supply project, has landed the consultant who had given the earlier estimate and civic officials who had drafted a project report based on that estimate in trouble.

 The   (PMC) is contemplating action against the officials. In fact, some elected members want to blacklist these officials and the consultant. The proposal will be tabled before the standing committee on January 31.
 
 “It is the duty of the consultant to give the estimate in a manner that will help the civic body save public money. However, he did not do that. Had the PMC accepted his estimate as it was, the civic body would have incurred losses,” said  , a corporator who supported the proposal.
 
 “The consultant and certain civic officials seem to have been operating for a particular company. The rules and regulations that they have drafted for the project indicate so. The contract terms are designed in such a manner that they do not allow fair competition,” said Avinash Bagwe, another PMC corporator.
 
 “The decision on blacklisting the officials and the consultant will be taken by the elected members of the standing committee and the general body. The civic administration will execute the decision,” said a PMC official requesting anonymity.
 
 The revised estimate of the project — including laying the optical fibre cable duct — has come down by nearly Rs 290 crore to settle at Rs 2,325 crore. The earlier projection of about Rs 2,615 crore now casts a shadow on the previous estimate.
 
 The project has two main parts — revamping of the water supply system with metering and laying of optic fibre cable duct. As a part of the scheme, 103 water tanks will be built across the city. Other key components of the project include laying 1,600 km of pipelines and installation of meters. The deadline to finish project is 2020-21.
 
 The first tenders were opened in July 2017 and bidders had quoted costs 26% above PMC’s estimate. Opposition leaders and a faction of the BJP alleged that civic officers had “fixed” the terms to favour selected bidders. The tenders were cancelled in August and a re-estimation was ordered. In November 2017, the PMC estimate committee gave a green signal to the new estimate for floating tenders for the second time.
 
 “Action should be taken against those responsible for the alleged goof up. If any person, including elected members, is found to have played a role, that person should be taken to task,” said   of  , a citizens’ group. He said an inquiry should be carried out and the report of that inquiry should be made public.
 
