PANAJI: Chairman of   ( ) Atanasio ‘Babush’   said that, before a final decision is taken, the authority will hear member MLAs and those in the forefront of the agitation opposing the inclusion of their respective villages under the authority.

 “All development plans of GPPDA will go to respective panchayats and gram sabhas as we believe in people’s participation in development of villages,” Monserrate said.
 
 Reacting to strong opposition coming from villages of St Cruz, Merces,  , Curca, and surrounding areas, Monserrate said that the member secretary of the authority will write to MLAs, who are members of the planning and development authority (PDA), to know their concerns. The member secretary will then speak to the main leaders to know the benefits of being part of such an authority. “PDA is not here to demolish anyone’s houses and neither will there be development in low lying areas. Water bodies will also be preserved,” Monserrate, who represented St Cruz constituency in the last term, said.
 
 Emphasising that he is all for planned development of a village, Monserrate said there will be a chaotic situation if semi-urban areas on the outskirts of the capital city were not planned properly.
 
 “An information technology park is proposed in Chimbel for the last three years. Shouldn’t there be proper planning for necessary infrastructure for it? We are on it. There is no question of us forcing any kind of development down people’s throats,” Monserrate said. He was of the view that the opposition to the authority is because people are misinformed as also because of unfounded apprehensions. 
 
 “We would like to explain to the people the benefits of being part of a PDA. Currently, plans are approved by town and country planning (TCP) department and village panchayats have hardly any role to play. Once part of PDA, the panchayat will have more powers to exercise in village development,” he told TOI.
 
 Referring to the support extended by former St Cruz MLA Victoria ‘Mummy’ Fernandes to the agitation, Monserrate said, “I’ve high respect for Mummy. But maybe the people are not aware that she was also the chairperson of PDA. So, can PDA be bad only now?” “My appeal to the people is — don’t get misled. We are here to address your apprehensions. Try to understand the benefits of a PDA,” he said.
 
 All development plans of GPPDA will go to respective panchayats, gram sabhas as we believe in participation of people in the development
 
 
