JAIPUR: The   is hoping to cash in on an underflow of dissent in the   for fielding a greenhorn,  , from the Ajmer   seat. Local leaders, including those from the Jat community to which Lamba belongs, who staked claim for the parliamentary constituency on the basis of their nearly three-decade old active association with BJP but failed to get the party ticket may upset the ruling party’s equations in the bypoll.

 The Jats are the single largest community on this seat. Estimated to be around 2.5 lakh, the Jats are second only to the combined strength of Scheduled Caste (SC) communities that are said to number around 3.5 lakh in Ajmer Lok Sabha constituency. Bitterness among BJP’s local Jat leaders over nomination of Lamba, whose claim over the seat is his father former minister Sanwarlal Jat’s legacy, may cost the ruling party.
 
 “Having entered active politics a year back through BJP Yuva Morcha, Lamba’s strength is his community’s sympathy for his father. How much support he will be able to get from other communities is uncertain so far,” said a local BJP leader. Sources said senior leaders, who have been active in BJP for decades, fear that Lamba’s victory in the bypoll might put a break on their political careers in the constituency.
 
 
  
 
 The opposition party is further aiming to encash the resentment among Rajput and Ravna Rajput communities against chief minister  . The Rajput leaders openly expressed their ire against Raje and declared at a press conference at Rajput Sabha Bhawan here on Monday that the two communities would actively work to defeat BJP not only in Ajmer Lok Sabha but also in Alwar Lok Sabha and Mandalgarh assembly constituencies, which too would be going to bypolls on January 29. The two communities are estimated to number around 1.25 lakh in Ajmer Lok Sabha area.
 
 The Congress workers are projecting Ajmer bypoll as a contest between Jat and non-Jat communities. The party nominated former legislator Raghu Sharma from Ajmer within minutes after BJP declared Lamba as its candidate for the seat, indicating that Congress had planned the strategy well in advance. A local Congress leader said, “Brahmin community, which has a strength of around 1 lakh on this parliamentary seat, would take cue from the Jat community’s voting trend in the state and vote on caste-line instead of party line.” The party believes it will be able to break away Brahmins from BJP in favour of Sharma, who is ex-MLA and a seasoned politician.
 
 The constituency also has Gurjars (around 2.25 lakh), Muslims (2 lakh), Vaishya (around 2 lakh), Rawat (80,000), Mali (around 70,000), Sindhi (around 70,000), Christians (around 35,000) and other smaller communities (around 1 lakh).
 
 The BJP, nevertheless, is upbeat considering chief minister Raje’s aggressive campaigning in the constituency that started much before the bypoll dates were announced. “As long as the CM takes keen interest in the constituency, we have nothing to fear. Our candidate has been chosen by her,” summed up a BJP leader.
 
 
