SURAT: A major controversy has been stoked in the BJP’s 12-day long   cleanliness campaign with the   (SMC) adopting a resolution to provide the machinery and safai workers for the work.

 
 Information sought under Right to Information (RTI) by city-based activist, Sanjay Ezhawa, has revealed that the SMC will have to bear Rs 88 lakh for the party’s campaign. As per the resolution in the standing committee, SMC had agreed to provide free-of-cost machinery including earth movers, tractors and dumpers for the removal of water hyacinth from Tapi to the  . However, the civic body had sought financial aid from about 18 industrial houses in Hazira, who had promised Rs 93 lakh as donation for the campaign. The vehicles were procured on rent from the 12 private agencies. 
 
 During the 12 days, BJP spent Rs 3.19 lakh on the water bottles and lemon water. The 12 agencies have submitted bills of Rs 88 lakh for various machineries and 1,605 vehicles for collecting the river but SMC is yet to disburse the amount. About 2,471 safai workers and civic officers were allotted for the Tapi cleanliness campaign. 
 
 As per the information, SMC has received only Rs 36 lakh donations from five industrial houses in Hazira till date and others are yet to disburse the funds even after more than two months of the event. 
 
 Additional city engineer, KH Khatwani said, “As per the resolution, the SMC would be bearing all the cost of the machinery supplied during the 12 days long Tapi cleanliness by the BJP. We provided technical guidance and other facilities for the campaign.” 
 
 Talking to TOI, city BJP president,   said, “We have nothing to do with Rs 88 lakh expense as the Hazira industries had promised donations SMC already had the machinery on rent before the campaign started and it is their responsibility to pay the private agencies. The city BJP has spent Rs 12 lakh and the money was used in diesel and wages of safai workers.” 
 
  councillor Aslam Cyclewala said, “This was a private event by the BJP and all expenses should be borne by the party. But SMC will be spending the public money to pay the Rs 88 lakh to the private contractors. Had it been a Congress event, would SMC have provided us the machinery for Rs 88 lakh?”
 
 
