JAIPUR: In a bid to reduce the patient intake, the overstretched   (SMS) medical college is providing its land to a private hospital to develop better healthcare facilities for patients coming to  . It will be a massive Rs 8200 crore project but details are yet to be finalised.

 As per initial plans, the new facility will have a separate out-patient department, operation theatres, separate rooms and other related infrastructure.For the forject, the state government will rope in a private hospital for construction of the building at the place where existing cottage wards are located, said health minister   on Wednesday during his visit to   medical college.
 
 The SMS medical college has tried twice by inviting tenders but the medical college and the private hospitals did not agree on terms and conditions. A medical college official said, “Since it is a government land on which private player will construct a building, we have to take care a lot of issues. In the hospital, underprivileged patients come for treatment. Will they get the same facilities in the new hospital. Such isses need to be resolved.”
 
 Similarly, there will be a separate OPD at the new building. But it is not clear if the doctors from the SMS Hospital will be assigned duties there. “These are the questions, which are yet to be resolved. But, we have to prepare terms and conditions to find out a solution for it,” said the official.
 
 The official said that since it is a new concept, it is taking time. The land will be provided by the government and the new building will come up on   mode. 
 
 With increase in the number of patients over the years, the SMS Hospital is planning to construct multi-storey building with the help of private players as the availability of land is limited. 
 
 SMS Hospital has 70 cottage wards. After demolishing the existing 70 cottage wards, the SMS medical college plans to construct 402 special rooms in the multi-storey building. The structures will have a basement, ground plus six floors. 
 
 
