JAIPUR: Two labourers were killed and one is battling for life after they inhaled toxic gases while cleaning a sewer pit without safety gear at   on Jaipur’s   on Saturday morning.

 Raju (30) and   (28) were rushed to the hospital where they were declared brought dead, while Ajay (27) is currently undergoing treatment at SMS Hospital. The trio was engaged by a private contractor for maintenance work in the nine-feetdeep pit. The team members were not wearing any protective gear like masks or gloves when they entered the sewer line.
 
 Police suspect that initially Raju entered the pit and was asphyxiated, while Satish and Ajay inhaled the gas while attempting to rescue him.
 
 A labourer who was present near the manhole raised the alarm. The shopkeepers called up the   police station. A team from the   (SDRF) accompanied by the police arrived at the spot. They were rushed to Kanwatia Hospital, where Raju and Satish were declared dead on arrival. Their bodies were kept at the mortuary. The doctors found that Ajay was still breathing and was rushed to the SMS Hospital for further treatment.
 
 Rohitaswha, sub-inspector at Murlipura police station, informed TOI that a case under Section 304-A (causing death by negligence) has been registered against the private contractor based on the complaint filed by the parents of two victims.
 
 
 
 
 “Raju had been cleaning pits for the past two years. He had left his house at 9.30 am. At 1 am, we were informed about the incident,” said Gopal, brother-in-law of Raju.
 
 Both Raju and Satish were residents of Kishanbagh area in Shastri Nagar. Both have three kids and elderly parents to take care of. Locals said that Raju’s father had died a couple of years ago and his mother was paralytic. “This is a recurring feature. About two years ago too, one person of our slum had died in a similar mishap,” said Sulatan, a resident of the same locality.
 
 Jagdish, an uncle of Satish, was barely able to hold back his tears. “It was an avoidable death, we demand justice for his death,” he said. The locals of the area said that a relief package should be given to the families of victims.
 
 The bodies of Raju and Satish were handed over to the family after post-mortem. “A case has been registered and we are investigating how this incident occurred,” Rohitaswha told TOI.
 
 Industries minister Rajpal Singh Shekhawat also met the families of the two victims and announced a compensation of Rs 2 lakh each to the kin of victims and Rs 50,000 to the injured.
 
