Nagpur: In yet another jolt to absconding BJP leader Omprakash alias Munna Yadav, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Friday rejected his anticipatory bail plea while tersely observing that the rule of law should prevail in society. Dismissing arguments by a battery of lawyers, including Subodh Dharmadhikari, Uday Dable, Mohit Khajanchi, Chinmay Dharmadhikari and Nishant Singhania, that such petty clashes take place in every nook and corner of society, justice Vinay Deshpande clarified that the court can’t be a mute spectator and close its eyes to all such happenings. Terming Yadav’s attitude as “adamant”, the judge tersely mentioned that he had no respect for the law. He also pointed out that the petitioner, a “well known criminal”, as described by Dhantoli police, had not only used a sword to attack, but also pulled a woman by the hair, while unleashing violence against rival Mangal Yadav and his family members. Flaying city police, justice Deshpande further observed that the police had been unable to include Yadav in investigations, as he was absconding since over five months. Earlier, Rajnish Vyas, who was assisting prosecution on behalf of complainant Navita Avdhesh Yadav, strongly opposed any bail to Yadav, contending that he was already facing ten offences in various police stations in city. Charging the police with diluting the case by removing Section 307 from the charge sheet, he argued that only the court has power to drop charges after inquiry, however cops had done it under obvious political pressure. Vyas said despite two independent witnesses deposing about Yadav attacking rivals with a sword and grievously injuring them, the police turned a blind eye to their testimony and were making all efforts to save him. Crime branch inspector Aanchal Mudgal had provided a list of all offences against Yadav in his affidavit filed in HC on Thursday, while opposing any relief to him. Navita had also filed a petition against Yadav and his family, praying for a CBI enquiry against him and other family members allegedly involved in the deadly assault on Mangal’s family, that left them seriously injured. She charged the police with shielding Yadav, a former BJP corporator from Ajni, due to his strong connections with the top BJP leadership. Yadav is also known as a close aide of chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, who appointed him chairman of Maharashtra State Construction Workers’ Welfare Board (MSCWWB). On October 22, Navita had lodged an FIR at Dhantoli police station against Munna and his kin, attracting offences of attempt to murder (IPC Section 307), Section 4/25 of the Arms Act, and Section 135 of Maharashtra Police Act. She termed main culprit Munna as a “political heavyweight” and closely related to the CM, who is also heading the state home department.  After rejection of his anticipatory bail petition by sessions court on March 15, Yadav approached the HC challenging the verdict. He had earlier withdrawn his bail application from the HC when it was about to be dismissed on February 2.