GURUGRAM: The department of town and country planning ( ) has imposed a fine of Rs 2 lakh on Gurugram Social and Cultural Centre Pvt Ltd, a firm which owns a plot in Sector 64 where a school is being constructed in violation of the National Green Tribunal ( ) rules. 

 The firm has been directed to pay the fine immediately and threatened with legal action in case the violations continued.
 
 RTI activist Mohit Khatana had filed a complaint on  , alleging that the firm was violating NGT rules. “The under-construction building is not covered with a green sheet as per rules. Also,   and sand are kept in the open. When there is wind, the building material is blown into the surrounding fields and affects the crop,” said Khatana. 
 
 The locals said that the construction work was carried out through the nights, causing noise pollution and disturbing residents. “The state government should look into the construction of small and big private schools. If any fault is found, fines should be imposed on schools,” said Khatana. 
 
 The CM office had ordered the district town planner enforcement (DTPE) office to investigate into the matter and the   had entrusted it with the assistant town planner ( ), Narendra Kumar.
 
 On April 8, the ATP reviewed the site. “During the investigation, it was found that the under-construction building was not covered with green sheets. Also, there was no provision to spray water on the building material which was left uncovered and caused pollution. The labourers at the site also did not have any security equipment,” said Kumar.
 
 On Wednesday, the DTCP issued a notice to the firm, seeking the fine and information on arrangements for prevention of pollution and labour protection on site within seven days. “The plot was given to the firm for running an institute. But the party concerned is developing two to three institutes on it. A club and an arts and culture centre are already operational on the site. The party is now building another structure on one portion of the land, which will operate as a school,” said Kumar. 
 
