MARGAO: Following the elections to the municipality in November 2015, in a symbolic gesture emphasizing that the new council swears by transparency, the first meeting of the   ( ) was held at an open venue, at the Lohia Maidan, Margao. However, since the last over two years, the affairs of the municipality are far from transparent, sources within the council admit.

 While the civic body is not alien to controversies, with allegations of corruption surfacing over various issues intermittently over the last two year, be it the alleged fake birth certificates scam or the row over missing files, or allegations of corruption in the technical section, the MMC has now courted two fresh controversies. 
 
 One pertains to the dubious resolution adopted by the council of acquiring around 15,000 sq m of land at Khareband for unspecified “public multi-utility purpose,” the other is about the bill raised by Bapu Environmental and Engineering Servives towards door-to-door collection of garbage for 45 workers, when only 31 workers were engaged for the purpose. 
 
 “As you all know, land is becoming an increasingly scarce resource. So we decided to acquire the land and reserve it for some future public utility purpose such as parking,” MMC chairperson Babita Angle Prabhudessai told reporters after the council passed a resolution to acquire the land. However, it is the ambiguity over the purpose of the acquisition that has led to speculations over the council’s intentions as the said land is situated in a no development zone as it is located along the banks of the river Sal.
 
 Convenor of the Shadow Council for Margao (SCM), Savio Coutinho, alleges that this is a huge scam-in-the making.   pointed out that this is the same piece of land which the SCM had complained about over a year ago, about illegal development of plots that could lead to development of a slum area. 
 
 “The low lying catchment area was illegally filled up and small plots admeasuring around 100 sq m were found to be demarcated (a year ago). Despite written complaints to the all authorities concerned, namely the district collector, MMC, town and country planning department and the sewerage department, no action was taken. It was indeed shocking for us to learn about the proposal for acquisition of the exact the same land,” Coutinho told TOI. The former chairperson has demanded that the MMC come clear on the proposal.
 
 On the issue of the inflated bill raised by Bapu Environmental Social Service Organisation in six wards of Fatorda constituency, fears have been raised about MMC standing to lose Rs 2.25 lakhs per month owing to the “scam.”
 
 MMC’s chief officer   has already lodged a police complaint against Bapu Engineering and Environment Services with the Fatorda police who are yet to register an offence. 
 
 
