BATHINDA: The special investigation team (SIT) probing Maur blast case is conducting raids to nab two suspects   and   to quiz them about the conspiracy behind the incident in which seven persons had lost their lives. 

 According to SIT members, both suspects had key role in modifying the car that used in the blast. 
 
 Both have been linked to the case registered at Maur police station on January 31, 2017, for murder, attempt to murder and the Explosive Substances Act.
 
 A senior SIT member said Amrik, originally from Bhikhi town in Mansa, was in the security wing at Dera Sacha Sauda headquarters in Sirsa. He was one of the members looking after the security of dera head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh. Amrik and was living at the dera for the last few years. He had gone underground after August 25, 2017, when   was convicted of rape.
 
 The officer added that as per investigations Amrik and Gurtej had brought the battery to be fixed in the car on January 28, 2017, and had made a call to the shop from the dera complex before purchasing it.
 
 A resident of Alike village near Dabwali in Sirsa district of Haryana, Gurtej is learnt to have played a major role in fabricating the car. The SIT is probing on whose behest he had made the modifications in the car and whether he had got the directions from some top dera functionary. 
 
 On Friday, SIT visited dera head Gurmeet's ancestral village Gurusar Modia in Rajasthan looking for Gurtej where he is learnt to have stayed for over a month after August 25, 2017. Police also went to Alike village looking for Kala.
 
 A SIT member said raids were conducted at Gurusar Modia and Alike but Kala or Amrik could not be nabbed. "Police are making efforts to arrest them. Mansa police are making searches to arrest Amrik," said a Mansa police official.
 
 When contacted, Mansa senior superintendent of police (SSP)   said, "Amrik had lived here many years ago but he had shifted base to the dera in Sirsa and no one from his family is here now." 
 
