KOTA: A sleuth of Anti Corruption Bureau( ),   on Thursday noon arrested a clerk posted at district education (elementary) department office in Baran for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 2500. The accused had demanded the bribe for getting signature of district education officer (elementary) on a building safety certificate to the proprietor of a private school in Mangrol area of the district.

 “Jitendra Sharma, who was posted as a clerk at district elementary education office in Baran was arrested after he had allegedly accepted a bribe of Rs 1500 from one Vinod Mehra who runs a private school in Mangrol town,” ASP, ACB, Baran Rajendra Singh Gogawat said. “Following a complaint with ACB, Baran in the matter, the verification of the complaint was carried out today morning and at the time of verification, the accused had accepted part of the bribe amounting to Rs. 1000,” he said.
 
 “The clerk attempted to run away from the spot after accepting the remaining Rs. 1500 but the ACB personnel caught him at a distance of about 100 meters and recovered the total bribe amount of Rs. 2500 from his pocket,” Gogawat said.
 
 The ASP further said that the role of district elementary education officer Radhyshyam Jat is also under suspicion in the matter and is being looked into, adding the accused would be produced before the ACB court in Kota on Friday.
 
 Box
 
 Patwari in ACB net
 
 Sleuth of special unit of   (ACB), Kota on Thursday arrested a revenue official (Patwari) posted at Sangod Tehasil of the district after he had accepted a bribe of Rs. 2500 from a local farmer. The accused Patwari had demanded a bribe for issuing penalty notice on government land. The accused would be produced before ACB court on Friday. “Om Prakash Rathor, posted as revenue officer (Patwari) at Sangod Tehasil of Kota district was arrested from his office today afternoon after he accepted a bribe of Rs. 2500,” Inspector at special unit, ACB Kota Ramesh Ariya said. The accused patwari had demanded the bribe amount of Rs. 5000 from one Prahlad Bagari, a local farmer, for issuing penalty notice on around one biga of government land which is adjoining to his agricultural land in the village, he said adding the bribe amount was later through negotiation settled at Rs. 2500. “The farmer lodged a complaint with special unit of ACB, Kota on Tuesday and following the verification of complain the next day on Wednesday, the trap was carried out today at Patwar office in Sangod,” the ACB inspector said. Further inquiry and investigation into the matter is currently underway, he said adding the accused Patwari would be produced before ACB court in Kota on Friday. 
 
 
