Data is the new oil, says a modern adage. Today, every business from insurance to retail marketing is governed by information provided by data analytics. So it is natural that over the past few years, technical institutions have begun offering diploma and degree courses on the subject. Professionals in the field say   analytics is riding the wave today similar to what information technology did in the early 2000s.

 
  
  
 
 Today, there is a need to manage and analyse the enormous amount of data generated by digital and engineering systems, said  , vice-president of industry initiatives, National Association of Software and Services Companies (Nasscom). He believes it calls for skilling graduates in data analytics. "Based on the present scenario it is projected that in 2022, the global big data   industry would require 3,00,000 professionals. India alone would require at least 50,000," he said.
 
 Big data analytics involves data engineering and analytics. The first is about collecting and compiling data, getting rid of garbage values, creating a pool and feeding them into a mathematical or statistical model for processing. The results are then presented visually, based on which decisions are taken or predictions made. 
 
 Today, most organisations have realised the importance and power of data and are investing in its analysis, says Joseph Ashwin, a manager at a leading data analytics firm. "Now the post of chief information officer (CIO) is becoming popular. A CIO heads the data analytics and decision making functions of a firm," said Ashwin. 
 
 But it’s not just numbers, experts say a data scientist is required to have thorough knowledge in programming, communication, mathematics, statistics, management, economics and commerce. "While a data scientist is a technical person, a business analyst is expected to be an expert both in business and data systems. This would help choose a career in either management or technical fields," said Ashwin. "Nowadays business analytics courses are tailored for such requirements. They have both MBA and data science subjects," he said.
 
 Gauging the demand for data analysts, institutions such as Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham in Coimbatore have decided to start postgraduate course in data sciences. "During placements, several employers seek candidates with knowledge of data analytics. So, we are planning to introduce MSc data science from the new academic year. It would be offered jointly by the department of mathematics and computer science engineering," said  , vice-chairman, department of computer science, Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham. Several technical institutions have also started offering big data electives. Professors of computer science and IT departments from technical institutions said elective courses in big data analytics too have high demand among undergraduate and postgraduate students.
 
 A Kumaravel, dean, school of computing, Bharat Institute of Higher Education and Research, which offers an MTech in big data analytics for the past two years, said students were eagerly opting for the relatively new course. "The students who have done the course have got good job offers and several of them have started their own data analytics firm," he said.
 
 The But the greatly changing scope and tenets entail that university curriculum may not be able to keep pace and so some analytics firms train people with a hands-on approach. Dhiraj Rajaram, founder CEO Mu Sigma, said: " "Big Data is not just a buzzword, it is about how people make decisions — an interaction between content and context. This needs an interdisciplinary approach. However, talent with an interdisciplinary perspective is not available as schools are not able to provide exposure to the real-world problems. To bridge the gap, Mu Sigma has become a business that runs as a university, grooming interdisciplinary talent through Mu Sigma University — 800 students graduated last year from the university, including recruits from US who came down to Bangalore for training, as part of the ‘Columbus Program’. A large number of Fortune500 customers also participate in our MSU program.
 
 
