TRICHY: In yet another incident of illegal tree felling in the city limit, two fully grown trees on the sides of William’s Road were cut down in broad daylight.

 The incident took place on Sunday afternoon when two of the Pungan trees, approximately 15 years old, were cut by one Nagarajan running a service centre for four wheelers. The tree was in front of his commercial establishment.
 
 While there is also a tea shop adjacent to the service centre, people on two-wheelers frequenting the tea shop park their vehicles under the tree blocking the way to the service centre.
 
 Police said that the tea shop owner and Nagarajan had on a few occasion exchanged heated arguments over blocking of his way. But on Sunday which was also Pongal day, Nagarajan cut and sold both the trees.
 
 Advocate at the district court,   who has his office in the adjacent building was shocked to see the trees cut down on Monday morning. He lodged a complaint in the cantonment police station seeking action against those who illegally cut the tree.
 
 “The city has only 12 per cent green cover which is far less than that required for healthy living. Such merciless cutting of trees would only have adverse effects on the city’s ecosystem,” says   while seeking action against Nagarajan.
 
 The cantonment police carried out investigation with Nagarajan who confessed to having cut the trees citing the reason that it was blocking the way to his service centre.
 
 Terming the incident unfortunate, secretary of Thaneer- a city based voluntary organization - K C Neelamegam said that action had to be initiated against the guilty so that such incident didn’t reccur.
 
 “We can only plant saplings but we need to get proper approval from the RDO or Thasildar if we intend to cut a fully grown tree even if it’s on a private property. But these trees on the roadside, a public space, have been cut without proper permission.” 
 
 “We can save such trees if we get prior information but cannot do anything if they have already been brought down,”he said.
 
 
