PUNE: Flyers from   will soon be able to enjoy a wider variety of food options. From April 11, three new food and beverage outlets will start operations inside the terminal building.

 “The Pune airport will see the opening of three new food and beverage outlets — one at the check-in area and two others in the security hold areas on the ground floor of the terminal building,” Pune airport director   said.
 
 In the past, many air passengers have complained about food items available at the airport, demanding better quality and variety. There have also been demands for more affordable food options. The airport officials said they are working on meeting these demands.
 
 Recently, the AAI floated an expression of interest (EoI) for setting up an automated retail packed food dispenser machine. The dispenser would allow passengers to choose meals. It has been mentioned in the EoI that the menu will be from popular city restaurants and will be modified depending on the demand from passengers.
 
 AAI seeks eco clearance for airport expansions
 
 The AAI has approached the ministry of environment and forest, seeking environmental clearances for seven airports. Sources said the AAI had requested the expert appraisal committee (EAC) of the ministry to prepare the Terms of References (ToR) for three airports, including Pune and  . ToR are crucial instructions given to an organisation, or a body, in connection with a project.
 
 It has been said that the Pune airport’s expansion plans include the construction of a terminal building, overhaul of the existing terminal building and setting up of new facilities like an integrated cargo hub, a multi-level parking facility etc. The length of the runway and the apron area will also be increased. The project cost is estimated to be around Rs 700 crore.
 
  starts
 
 Kolhapur operations
 
 Officials of the AAI on Sunday confirmed that Air Deccan has started its flight operations from the Kolhapur airport under the regional air connectivity scheme. As per the schedule, the flight from Mumbai will leave at 1.15pm and reach Kolhapur by 2.45pm. The flight from Kolhapur will take off at 3pm and reach Mumbai by 4.30pm.
 
 The flight will operate on three days — Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Sundays.
 
 
