MYSURU: After a   was reported in a few localities in northeast Mysuru, City police imposed prohibitory orders within the Udayagiri police station limits. 

 In separate incidents that occurred over a span of two-and-a-half-hours, few people, including a police officer, were injured.
 
 Among those who sustained injuries was inspector Anil Kumar, when a bunch of youngsters threw stones at him when he tried to prevent them from forcing to close down shutters of commercial establishments.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (law and order) Vishnuvardhana N told TOI, “A sizeable group of youngsters, belonging to a particular community were forcing shopkeepers in Udayagiri on Mahadevapura to down their shutters to protest the rape and murder of an eight-year-old girl in Jammu and Kashmir. 
 
 A team comprising three inspectors was rushed to the spot to maintain order in the area. However, the youngsters went ballistic, and started pelting stones at the cops, forcing police to resort to force to quell the mob. Inspector Anil sustained injuries on his head in the melee. He has been admitted to Apollo Hospital.”
 
 The DCP said the youngsters arrived on bikes after offering their Friday prayers, and forced shopowners to down their shutters. “They had not taken permission to protest, and the group did not unite under the banner of any organisation. The youngsters were holding the photograph of the rape victim, and creating panic,” Vishnuvardhana said.
 
 Another cop said that, while the situation in Udayagiri was brought under control, another group of youngsters went to   where they forcibly tried to close a few shops. When other residents tried to nab them, they escaped by pelting stones.
 
 None too pleased with this behaviour, residents of Kyathamaranahalli staged a demonstration demanding police action to bring the erring youngsters to justice.
 
 A part of Narasimharaja constituency, Udayagiri has witnessed several incidents of communal violence in the past ten years. While many areas in the segment are dominated by Muslims, the Nayaka community are in the majority at Kyathamaranahalli.
 
 Police reinforcements have arrived at Udayagiri, and have brought the law-and-order situation under control. BJP leaders including MP Pratap Simha, and Maruthi Rao Pawar paid a visit to the disturbed areas and interacted with the residents. Meanwhile, police have intensified patrolling in the area.
 
 
