AHMEDABAD: Teams of   police cracked the murder case of a 27-year-old youth with the arrest of the victim’s wife and her lover. The murder had taken place over the woman’s alleged extramarital affair with her maternal cousin, said investigators.

 According to police, the body of Vipul Pandya, a resident of Borij, was found on April 19 in a car near the Narmada canal on Karai Road. He was found strangled to death. Pandya was a driver with the Gandhinagar branch of SBI and was found in the car he used to drive. Pandya’s wife Asma, 22, claimed that they had gone to a hospital after which Pandya had a tiff and had left the spot.
 
  Virendra Singh Yadav, SP, Gandhinagar, said that teams led by inspectors J D Purohit, P I Solanki, T S Bhatt and Meenaxi Patel were formed to probe different aspects of the case. “During the probe, it came to light that Asma, the complainant, was involved in the murder,” he said.
 
 Investigators said that Asma was questioned thoroughly after which she revealed name of Sameer Pathan, 21, a resident of Sarkhej near Sanand Crossroads, as her accomplice. Sameer is Asma’s maternal uncle’s son and also her lover.
 
 “The duo confessed that they had hatched the plan to kill Pandya after he repeatedly refused to divorce Asma for the sake of their girls, aged four and two. Asma had been to her parents’ residence four days prior to the murder and returned only on April 18. The same night, Sameer reached Gandhinagar and later went to her residence at 1.30am. Sameer strangled Pandya on the bed with Asma’s dupatta when he was asleep,” said an official.
 
 As Sameer did not know the roads of Gandhinagar, Asma drove his bike and Sameer drove the car carrying Pandya’s body in the back seat. The couple’s two-year old girl was asleep in the front seat. The duo left the car and returned on Sameer’s bike.
 
 “She then raised the alarm about Pandya’s disappearance and sought help from neighbours. We have got evidence against the duo,” said a Gandhinagar police official.
 
 
