KOLKATA: Tunnelling of the Howrah-Esplanade stretch of the   project will end on Thursday, when the second tunnel-boring machine (TBM) — Rachna — punches through the diaphragm wall of the Esplanade station. Sibling   Prerna, which dug the Howrah- bound tunnel, broke through the 4ft wall on March 23.

  
  
 
 Rachna, which is digging and building the Salt Lake-bound tunnel of the Rs 8,575-crore project, will complete boring through the station’s western wall on Thursday to emerge into the station. On Wednesday, it touched the diaphragm wall in the morning and drilled halfway through it by the end of the day.
 
 “When Rachna touched the diaphragm wall around 9am on Wednesday, it was a
 
 historic moment for us. We have passed several milestones ever since the TBMs started moving two years ago. But this was one of our most memorable experience,” said A K Nandy, general manager (administration) of   ( ), the implementing agency.
 
 The excitement among the 300-odd crew members was palpable. Witnessing history being made 28m below the surface, 
  boarded the train that ferries muck out of the tunnel, carries the liner segments (the TBM is automatically fitting the liner segments to create the tunnel rings) and lays the tracks and reached the control panel. The noise of drilling is deafening but none seemed to care less. Everyone has a job assigned, and even slightest of mistake may prove costly.
 
 Both the TBMs, engaged by executing agency Afcons-Transtonnelstroy, will now be dismantled and reduced to about 10m each to be kept parked underground till a retrieval shaft is built by another contractor, ITD-Cementation, by September, 2019. Next month, two new TBMs, to be engaged by ITD-Cementation to bore the tunnels from Esplanade, will take over from here to drill till Sealdah.
 
 Rachna started digging below the congested Howrah Maidan in July 2016, three months after Prerna was commissioned. It cut through the Hooghly riverbed and tunneled through the equally crammed central Kolkata till Esplanade. While Prerna has built 2,694 rings for tunneling the 3.8km distance between Howrah Maidan and Esplanade, Rachna’s ring count is more – 2714 rings precisely — since her path has had been a bit longer.
 
 Even as the project has suffered several time and cost overruns, the tunneling has been pretty steady since the last one year. “Between the two tunnels, we have covered 5.6km since the TBMs reached the Kolkata side of the river this time last year,” a senior Afcons official said.
 
 
 
