NAGPUR: Two years ago, Chandrakant Pandit agonizingly watched Rest of India successfully chase a record 482 to win the Irani Cup.

 
 It must have been frustrating for Pandit - who was the Mumbai coach then - after his team had scored 603 in the first innings.   was one of the architects of that famous victory, the Vidarbha skipper batting for seven hours to tire out the Mumbai bowlers and scoring a magnificent 127 in the bargain.
 
 Pandit and Fazal, incidentally, are in the same camp now, and are the reigning Ranji Trophy champions. They will be setting their sights on yet another trophy when Vidarbha take on Rest of India in the Irani Cup at the Vidarbha Cricket Association Stadium in Jamtha on Wednesday.
 
 Another architect of that famous victory two years ago will be leading the Rest of India side. Karun Nair’s twin 90s earned him the India cap later that year and he went on to become only the second Indian to score a triple hundred in Tests. Nair also knows a thing or two about winning this coveted trophy — he has been involved in four Irani Cup wins, two each for Karnataka and Rest of India.
 
 Nair has the in-form Mayank Agrawal, Ravikumar Samarth — who would like to make his presence felt and continue his good form — and the likes of Abhimanyu Easwaran, Prithvi Shaw, Anmolpreet Singh and Hanuma Vihari to fall back on. They will all be looking to prove their worth.
 
 Nair also has firepower in the pace department with the presence of  ,   and Siddharth Kaul. He has crafty spinners in Shahbaz Nadeem and Jayant Yadav. The only grey area is Andhra wicketkeeper KS Bharat, whoise performance has not been so impressive. Most importantly, Nair has the best off-spinner in the world in Ravichandran Ashwin.
 
 Vidarbha, on the other hand, have hardly been bothered about the opposition this season. They have come out, executed their plans perfectly and played fearless cricket throughout the season on their way to winning the Ranji Trophy. Skipper Faiz Fazal wanted all his teammates to play the Irani Cup when the team made it to the Ranji final. Vidarbha have achieved that goal and now they have a chance to repeat what they did in Indore earlier this year.
 
 They have the likes of Wasim Jaffer, Umesh Yadav,   and Faiz himself, all of whom have been part of past Irani Cup-winning teams. They have youngsters in R Sanjay, Apoorv Wankhade, Aditya Sarvate and Akshay Wadkar, who would want to enhance their growing reputation. They have quality spinners in off-spinner Akshay Wakhare and leggie Karn Sharma.
 
 However, all eyes will be on pacer Rajneesh Gurbani, who created a sensation this season with 27 wickets in the Ranji knockouts, including a hat-trick in the final. Gurbani went unsold in the Indian Premier League auction despite performing so well, and the 25-year-old has another chance to prove he is capable of bowling to high-quality batsmen.
 
 The Jamtha wicket looks good for batting and it will be a grind for the bowlers.
 
 
 
 
  Faiz Fazal (captain), Ganesh Satish (vice-captain), R Sanjay, Wasim Jaffer, Apoorv Wankhede, Akshay Wadkar (wicketkeeper), Siddhesh Wath, Aditya Sarvate, Karn Sharma, Akshay Wakhare, Umesh Yadav, Rajneesh Gurbani, Yash Thakur, Aditya Thakare, Atharva Taide.
 
 
  Karun Nair (capt), Ravichandran Ashwin, Prithvi Shaw, Abhimanyu Easwaran, R Samarth, Mayank Agwarwal, Hanuma Vihari, KS Bharat (wk), Jayant Yadav, Shahbaz Nadeem, Anmolpreet Singh, Siddarth Kaul, Ankit Rajpoot, Navdeep Saini, Atit Sheth.
 
