VADODARA: In a bid to restrict wastage of water at its widespread campus, M   will stop continuous water supply system. 

 The university campus presently witnesses 24 X 7 water supply system. But the university’s construction division, which has started the water audit project, has decided to make the supply system intermittent whereby water will be supplied during fixed hours only. 
 
 The university, which is the first publicly funded institute of   to opt for water audit, has included the water audit project as a part of state government’s recently launched Sujalam Sufalam Jal Abhiyan – the water conservation drive that aims to help tackle shortage of water for irrigation and drinking purposes in the state. 
 
 “Gujarat Government’s missive for the campaign stresses on deepening of ponds, desilting of water reservoirs and check dams among others. But since our campus does not have such water bodies, we are adopting other means to conserve water through ‘Reduce, Reuse and Recharge strategies,” said university engineer N K Ojha.
 
 “The continuous water supply system is resulting in more wastage of water. Through water audit, we will study the consumption pattern of all residents and student population on the campus apart from visitors. Based on this pattern and taking into account various guidelines, including that of the National Building Code, we will make the supply system intermittent. The timings will be decided soon,” he said. 
 
 The university, which has formed a task force to implement the programme, has already stopped fountains at the university head office while loopholes are being plugged. 
 
 For instance, restrictions have been put on the usage of water at the residential quarters of class four employees inside the   campus – a portion of which acted as ‘dhobi ghat’ illegally. 
 
 “Similarly, instructions have been issued to stop wastage at hostel mess and we are also ensuring that those residing in slums near the hostel campus do not trespass inside the hostels illegally,” he said. He added that the campus of the   (earlier known as home science faculty) has already been converted into water efficient campus. 
 
 Earlier, during every monsoon, students of the faculty were forced to wade through knee deep water since the premises is saucer shaped. 
 
 “Thanks to the project, we had taken up two years back, with every inch of rainfall, we are getting 1.25 lakh litres of water which is diverted into an abundant open well for recharging groundwater,” he said. 
 
 
