NEW DELHI: They began as New Delhi Municipal Council’s innovative idea to green the capital in an efficient manner, but   gardens are now almost a trend. After Delhi Metro pillars on the Dwarka-Noida corridor went green, it is the turn of flyovers, with the South Delhi Municipal Corporation announcing plans to install vertical gardens on 11 of them.

 
 Environmental experts are happy that this “innovation” will not only help control air pollution on some major roads in south Delhi, but also control the urban heat island (UHI) effect. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 As Anumita Roy Chowdhury, head of CSE’s clean air programme, said, “Delhi is becoming more and more concretised and so vertical gardens serve the dual purpose of improving air quality by trapping dust and pollutants and absorbing heat from the surroundings to provide a cooling effect.”
 
 
  
  
 
 
 A study released by the CSIR-National Physical Laboratory last year revealed that Delhi sees a temperature variation of 5-10 degrees Celsius between the coolest and hottest parts of the city due to UHI. Locations in central Delhi, like Connaught Place and Sitaram Bazar, exhibit the highest UHI with the range being 4 degrees to 4.3 degrees Celsius. A bit afield, Janakpuri, Kaushambi, Adarsh Nagar and Bhikaji Cama Place log average UHI between 3.5 and 4 degrees Celsius.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Experts claimed that walls on which vertical gardens are erected show a drop of 1-2 degrees, proving the measure is an effective way of combating temperature. “The plants absorb the heat and regulate the temperature of any wall or building they are on,” explained Manju Mohan, professor at IIT-Delhi. “While it is easier to reduce the temperature of a building internally, you require large-scale implementation of such gardens across the capital to regulate external temperatures.”
 
 
  
  
 
 
 C R Babu, professor emeritus at Delhi University and head of the Centre for Environmental Management of Degraded Ecosystems, however, cautioned that vertical gardens alone weren’t enough and they need to go hand-in-hand with tree cover to provide wide-area temperature regulation. “Vertical gardens do absorb pollutants and volatile organic compounds, but you would need trees in the vicinity to see a change in temperatures. Vertical gardens can only be effective if they comprise broad-leafed species that are not succulent in nature.”
 
 Delhi generates 131 tonnes of dust every day, according to the Union environment ministry, making airborne dust one of the largest components of PM 2.5 (microscopic, respirable particles) in the capital. The vertical gardens are needed to make a dent into its detrimental effect.
 
 
