KOLKATA: The  , during the hearing of the   on Wednesday, raised a question that is going to determine the fate of the announced poll schedule beginning May 1. 

 Justice Subrata Talukdar wanted to know from Trinamool’s   why the state election commission (SEC) can’t extend the date of nomination for polls when it did so on April 9. 
 
 An extension of the nomination date will require the state poll panel to scrap rural elections on May 1, 3 and 5 and draw up a fresh poll schedule because there has to be a minimum 21-day gap between the last date of nominations and the poll date. 
 
 Banerjee said the poll panel can’t do so without a valid reason. The court has extended the stay on the election process until it takes up the matter for hearing for the third consecutive day on Thursday. In a bid to expedite the hearing, the court didn’t want to wait for the petitioners to file affidavits and serve copies to all concerned. 
 
 Banerjee spent hours arguing that the trial court had no jurisdiction to hear a writ petition on an election matter. When Justice Talukdar asked him where a voter should go if he felt the state election commission didn’t do justice to him, the Trinamool MP cited Supreme Court orders to argue that the aggrieved person could move the special tribunal on election matters at a later stage. 
 
 Senior lawyer and CPM leader Bikash Bhattacharya, during his submission, argued that he found no justification in questioning the maintainability of the petitions when the apex court had entertained these on April 11 and sent them to the HC. Bhattacharya argued that the court had every right to intervene when a citizen’s constitutional right was under attack.
 
 The Trinamool MP then focused on the petition’s contents. Banerjee held the allegations made in the petition were of general nature based on newspaper reports. “The opposition is making baseless allegations. Did they make any police complaint? They have made sweeping allegations of obstruction and threat without giving specific details. They are all vague. The court can’t entertain such vague applications. How could   then file 39,000 nominations?” Banerjee said.
 
 Bhattacharya, on the other hand, challenged the commission’s action. “The state election commission is a constitutional body. How dare a government secretary question the commission’s directive?” he said, pointing to the commission taking back the notification giving a four-hour window the next day to candidates who couldn’t file nominations even on the last day. 
 
 The state election commissioner in his April 10 directive had noted that a special secretary of the government and a Trinamool representation under the signature of party vice-president Kalyan Banerjee pointed to some “legal infirmities” in the April 9 notification. “The commission wit-hdrew the notification at gunpoint,” Bhattacharya said. 
 
 
