LUDHIANA: A joint delegation of MP  , MLAs Sanjay Talwar from Ludhiana East and Payal MLA Lakhvir Singh Lakha, deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Aggarwal on Wednesday met Union minister for road transport and highways   in the Capital and discussed various   for Ludhiana to ease traffic.

 And good news for the Ludhianvis. The Union minister has shown interest in two new projects for Ludhiana. He also said he will look into the matter so that the pending projects of the city also get completed within the limited time.
 
 The Union minister has asked the leaders to get the land acquisition done through state government for the new projects on northern bypass from Ladhowal upto Neelon and on the outer southern bypass from Manpur head works (Doraha) to Jagraon- Raikot Road. After 15 days, there will be another meeting where the technical teams will submit the report to the Union minister. 
 
 Now, the northern bypass is expected to cost Rs 411 crore. However, for the project to get rolling, 356 acres of land will have to be acquired. The Union minister has asked the MP and MLAs to get it through state land acquisition policy only then they will give a nod to this project. The total length of this bypass will be 48 km and it will be a four lane road. It can ease the traffic coming from J&K, Amritsar and Jalandhar and moving towards Chandigarh and Delhi.
 
 Similarly for the outer southern bypass starting near Manpur head works (Doraha) to Jagraon-Raikot Road, the Union minister has asked for recommendation through the state government after completion of the land acquisition process. However, according to the survey, which was done in 2010, the total length of this road will be 51.13km and the tentative cost will be Rs 247 crore. But land is available on the sides of the canal and therefore, there is no need to acquire land.
 
 Sharing details about the meeting,   MP Bittu said, “The Union minister listened to our demands patiently. He has also shown interest in giving more projects to the industrial town.” MP Bittu also said that the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) officials will take up the major portion of six laning project on Amritsar Panipat Road (passing through the city). 
 
 He said that the Union minister has given in principal approval to allocate Rs 500 crore for Ludhiana for changes in   project and completion of the incomplete bridges near Jalandhar Bypass road as they have demanded 5 km-long flyover to solve the issue. 
 
 Meanwhile, even for the changes in the ongoing work on Ludhiana-Kharar-Chandigarh Road, the Union minister has asked the technical experts of the NHAI to check the possibilities. It was demanded that instead of doing wall-to-wall construction, there should be an elevated road starting from Samrala Chowk till MC limits on Chandigarh Road as it will help in saving space for the movement of inner traffic of the city.
 
 The NHAI officials claimed it will increase the cost of the project upto Rs 400 crore but they have asked the city administration to provide adequate space at the starting and end points from where the elevated road will be constructed only then they will be able to consider this demand.
 
 Another demand in the similar project was to construct an elevated road instead four laning near Kohara as it could have turned into an accident prone area. Even for this, the technical team of NHAI will visit the site and prepare the report.
 
 The major relief will be for the stalled project of six laning of Amritsar-Panipat road at some of the points. The Union minister has asked the NHAI officials to get it done through a private company. He also said that if there is anything beyond the company perspective, then the NHAI should do it. It was demanded that flyovers should be constructed over Tajpur Road chowk and Tibba Road chowk as both the chowks have become accident prone areas and many accidents have occurred here. Also extension of road has been demanded near Basti Jodhewal chowk. This project would cost Rs 70 crore to NHAI.
 
 The deputy commissioner Pardeep Agrawal, who also attended the meeting, said, “We have had a positive discussion with the Union minister. It can bring good results to the city.” He said the Union minister was positive about the northern bypass project as it will solve the problem of the inner areas. Also, if the project comes up, then the outer traffic will not be able to enter the city. He said they will now further take up the projects with the state government as well.
 
 Congress MLA Sanjay Talwar said, “Tajpur road cut is now known as a deadly spot. On Tuesday, a person died here due to a road accident.” He also said that the stalled projects will start now and this will bring relief to the city residents. He said more projects will be approved for the industrial town too.
 
 In next few days officials of NHAI are also expected to visit the city for discussion over these projects. 
 
 
