There has always been a stigma attached with menstruation for as long as we can remember. The dos and don’ts surrounding periods have been a debated topic for long. However, it is only in recent years that   have started to fight back.

    shaming is common not only in our country, but also across the world. Even though we call ourselves millennial, menstruating girls and women are still banned from entering the kitchen or places of worship because their bodies are believed to be impure. Bangalore Times spoke to a few students about their thoughts on menstruation and period shaming. This is what they have to say…
 
  
 
 
  Periods are usually associated with disgust, shame and embarrassment. And this needs to stop. The usual code of ‘I am not feeling well’ needs to end and people need to start being transparent about periods and stop living in the fear of being shamed. “Period shaming is a big problem in our society. Why? Because it makes girls think something that’s completely natural is wrong and, that it is something to be ashamed of. If you ask me where it stems from, I would say from our homes. Mothers don’t talk to their sons about it. They hide the pads in their cupboards. I know so many guys who didn’t know what periods were even in the 10th grade. I remember during the sex education classes, we used to have a session every year in high school but it was so pointless. There would be separate sessions for boys and girls. When it came to explaining to the boys about periods, it would just be a one line explanation. At home, when the girls would have their periods, they were treated like untouchables. ‘Don’t sit on the sofa, don’t sleep on your bed, don’t enter the kitchen’ and the list goes on. I, honestly, don’t blame the boys. If this is what you see every month, one would think that having periods is something wrong,” says Ria Agarwal, a student from Jain University — Centre for Management Studies (CMS).
 
  Amogh George — a third year student from the same college — agrees and says, “It’s in our subconscious that this topic is considered taboo. In many homes, the moment a sanitary napkin ad plays on the TV, either the channel is changed or the kids are distracted. It’s because this has been considered taboo for ages.”
 
  
 
 
  Menstruation is a natural phenomenon among women, and it is a sign that your body is functioning in a healthy manner. It’s the mark of femininity and fertility. But no matter how many Padman(s) — the Akshay Kumar-starrer film, which releases next month — address menstruation, the elephant in the room still disgusts few. Chandana Nag, a student from St Joseph’s College adds, “What’s irritating is that everyone knows about menstruation, yet no one wants to talk about it. If I miss my period because of my PCOD problem, if I have mood swings because of menstrual stress, there is hardly anyone around who is willing to discuss it with me openly. Women have tried to not shame ourselves and don’t consider periods a taboo. We embrace our bodies. I just wish that patriarchy helps to break that taboo wall and be more kind. Most of my friends who are boys still get disgusted if girls talk about period pain when we hang out. It’s OK for them to discuss their wet dreams, but not menstruation.”
 
  Mohit Sharma, a third year student from   says that though menstruation is still considered taboo, things have come a long way. “My friends talk about it and there is no awkwardness between us. I guess it’s also about the comfort level. Right from the start, people have been told that talking about periods is wrong and that stays in your mind for a long time,” he says. Ask him how it can be made a topic of discussion rather than something to avoid and Mohit says, “It all starts from our roots. It depends on our upbringing and how we are taught about it in school, because that is when we first learn about it. If this topic is taught in our sex education classes, then there can be a very progressive way to deal with this topic.”
 
  
 
 
  In order to end the stigma surrounding menstruation, we need to put a stop to period shaming and shut it down. But how do we do this? Ria says, “The change needs to start from home with mothers teaching their sons about periods and fathers don’t mind buying pads for their daughters.”
 
  Amogh adds that in order to address this issue, education should begin at home. “Parents mustn’t change channels if there is a sanitary pads ad on TV. In fact, they should educate kids in such a way that they learn from it and do not feel awkward,” he says, adding, “Instead, we have been raised in a way where we have been taught that this is not a good thing to discuss. We should also do away with traditions that stop women from going about their daily activities during their periods. Instead of teaching girls about how to deal with periods, schools should have sessions for boys as well. This will help them understand the issue at a young age and also sensitize them about menstruation.”
 
  Aabharna, a teacher from Mount Carmel College and a mother of two kids, says it is time to change our mindset and our opinions surrounding menstruation. “People need to know that there isn’t any taboo associated with menstruation. I have two sons and one of them has just hit puberty and I have already spoken to him about periods and explained to him what it is about. I am sure that there are many other parents out there doing the same, but for the rest who do not, I think it is time to do so,” she sings off.
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
