NAGPUR: The state government has formed a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the role of domestic seed companies and US biotech giant   in the infiltration of the illegal herbicide tolerant (HT) cotton seeds into the market. This is the second SIT formed by the government. The earlier one probed the cause of death of 52 farmers who took ill after inhaling pesticides while spraying in the cotton fields of Vidarbha.

 The second SIT will be head by Sanjay Barve, director of the state intelligence department, and Subhash Nagre, the joint director (agriculture) of Amravati, will be its member secretary. They have been given powers to chose experts from different sectors and will have to submit a report in a month.
 
 The Delhi-based NGO Asia Biotechnology Centre (SABC) had said that the illegal HT market is worth about Rs472 crore. About 35 lakh packets of seeds were sold this kharif season across Telangana, Maharashtra, Gujarat,  , Odisha, Karnataka and  . The SABC also claimed that 8.5 lakhs hectares, or 7% of the total cotton-growing area in the country, is under the cultivation of the illegal seeds.
 
 CD Mayee, president and founder director of SABC, had told TOI that he had got samples of this variety about four years back and got them tested for the presence of the HT (glyphosate tolerant gene). The SABC had apprised the central government’s   Engineering ApraisalCommittee (GEAC) about the illegal sale and cultivation of HT cotton through a letter on September 5 last year.
 
 “We welcome the SIT. In fact, we had already warned the government about the infiltration of illegal seeds in the market,” said a Monsanto spokesperson.
 
 The SIT has been formed on the basis of a confidential letter shared by the centre to the state last month. The letter spells out details of the illicit seed market.
 
 A first information report too had been registered on October last year after illegal seeds were seized from Parseoni, Saoner and Narkhed talukas of Nagpur district. 
 
 Trials of the herbicide resistant seed, a genetically modified (GM) variety developed by Monsanto, were conducted between 2008 and 2010. However, the company withdrew the trials following protests by anti-GM activists. 
 
 Strangely, the seeds — popularly known as BGIII — began to be easily available in the market. With its capacity to remain tolerant to chemicals used to kill weeds, the seeds were very popular among farmers who preferred the ‘illegal’ BGIII instead of the ‘official’ BGII variety of the GM seeds.
 
 The biggest advantage with BGIII was that the farmer didn’t have to incur extra labour cost for clearing the weeds that would grow around the plant. But farmers and activists claimed that the BGIII witnessed excessive bollworm attack which increased the pesticide spraying operations resulting in deaths. Now, even BGII is reported to have lost its resistance to bollworm even though it was meant to provide the protection. 
 
 The state has received 12 lakh claims from farmers seeking compensation for losses due to pest attack. The amount will be claimed from domestic companies working through technological arrangement with Monsanto. 
 
 According to the government resolution notified for the second SIT, the illegal seeds are sold under different brand names like ATM, Bhalbadra, Krishna Gold and Jadu. 
 
 Reacting to the development, the   (private) Limited (MMBL), a joint venture through which the US giant operates in India, stated that the company “is encouraged by the formation of SIT”. 
 
 “In December 2017, we had written to the state government requesting action in curbing the production and sale of the seeds and had offered it cooperation. In fact, as early as September 2008, we had informed the country’s regulators about seeds being illegally produced and sold. As recent as August 2017, we had sought their intervention on the gross misuse of patented and regulated technologies,” reads the MMBL statement.
 
 
