MUMBAI: Mumbai: The BJP-led state government has decided to ask the Centre for relaxation of conditions newly set for declaration of   and Central help for affected areas.

 Of 136 talukas in   that have demanded they be declared drought-hit, only three from   district have made the cut according to the 2016 manual that has come in recently, that too in the 'moderate' category, TOI had reported on December 23.
 
 'Moderate' means only the state is responsible for giving financial assistance, and the Centre does not have to step in. Following public outrage over the stringent conditions, the state's relief and rehabilitation department has drafted a letter to be sent to the Centre which says most of the indicators in the manual are "irrelevant" and should not apply.
 
 While the new rules say the parameter of crop sowing would be applicable only if the area under sowing is reduced by 50%, the state's letter has said it must be relaxed.
 
  
  
 State officials said no farmer will keep his land barren. "Sowing is always done. Even in the worse of droughts experienced by the state, the area under sowing did not fall by more than 8-10%. This indicator can never been fulfilled," they said.
 
 The manual gives four impact indicators in all, and 13 sub-indices called trigger indicators. Depending on the number of indices that are applicable to the situation, the drought will be categorized as 'moderate' or 'severe'.
 
 When two of the four impact indicators are applicable to an area, it will be declared moderately affected, and if three are applicable, it will be placed in the 'severe' category. It would be rarely that three impact indicators would be applicable, officials said. While rainfall and ground verification are not taken as key, vegetation, hydrological indices and crop situation indices are all on the list of impact indicators.
 
 The letter, which has now been sent to CM   for approval, also contests the indicator about moisture content in soil, which says that only if the moisture content is less than 25% will the drought be considered 'severe'.
 
 The state government has said that it cannot generalise the moisture content for all crops. "In some crops that are fragile, if the soil moisture reduces by 40-50%, the crop can fail," said an official.
 
 According to the rules, only if crop loss is more than 50% will the Central government have to be petitioned for assistance. The state government has asked for this threshold to be reduced to 33%.
 
 Officials also said the deadline to declare drought is October 30, and any changes done by the Centre will only help villages next year.
 
 Earlier, the state government had been using the 2009 drought manual which had mere guidelines which most states did not follow. Maharashtra then used rainfall deficiency and crop outcome as the parameters to declare drought. Any village with deficient rainfall and 33% less crop output would be declared as drought-affected.
 
 Apart from Maharashtra, Karnataka is another state that has opposed the new drought manual.
 
