LUDHIANA: In a first, entry of relatives of newly elected councillors will be banned inside the   office on a day when 95 representatives with take oath on Monday. The election of mayor, senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor will take place after the   at Zone A office of MC on Monday.

 The MC has made all arrangements. The relatives of councillors would be able to see the oath-taking ceremony on an LED screen that will be placed outside the office. Only 95 councillors, MLAs and officers will be allowed inside. Even cabinet rank ministers or MPs, who wish to witness the ceremony, would have to sit outside, the officials said.
 
 Public dealing will also remain suspended at the zone A office of MC till 12 noon. In case, people have to fill their taxes, they can visit other offices of the MC. The public dealing at the MC office will take place only after the oath taking ceremony and election process.
 
 On Sunday, deputy commissioner  , MC commissioner  , additional commissioner   along with other MC officials conducted a meeting at the zone A office and also assigned duties to the staff.
 
 They also took a round of road outside MC office and asked the officials to ensure seating arrangement for the family members and relatives of the councillors outside where they could sit and witness the oath taking ceremony.
 
 Earlier, relatives of councillors used to throng the meeting hall to witness oath taking ceremony that used to create chaos. However this time the officials have been given clear instructions not to send anybody inside.
 
 In order to maintain the decorum, each official has been given a list of eight councillors and those officials will be responsible to bring those councillors to the MC meeting hall and no other person will be allowed to enter.
 
 MC commissioner Jaskiran Singh said, “The oath taking ceremony will be screened live for the family members outside the MC office. The media will also be allowed till the first floor where we have arranged screens for them.” He said people should visit the MC A zone after 12 noon on Monday for their works because they will not be allowed inside. 
 
 
