CHANDIGARH: For the first time in the last few years, posts of secretary and joint secretary,   ( ) have assumed importance.

 Reason, secretary   and joint secretary Karan Randhawa have been working throughout the year to solve students’ problems. President Jashan   and vice-president Karanvir Singh were absent throughout the year except on occasions like festivals in the University. As the term of the student council comes to an end 
 , TOI takes a look at the PUCSC report card.
 
 Jashan Kamboj, president
 
 Agenda | “There is a huge gap between the industry and academia, which is why we lag behind in placements. I want to fill this gap. When you enter PU, you expect a good package. Every student comes to the University with this objective and I want to work for it. Placements, improving rankings, more foreign teachers and student exchange programmes are things I want to work on.”
 
 Work done | Going by the record, 94 students were placed during Avsar, the placement festival of the University in the 2016-17 session. The figure decreased to 86 in the 2017-18 Avsar. Kamboj attributes this to lesser participation of students from UIAMS.
 
 Kamboj started the Chattra Panchayat in January 2018 to cover departments and meet students to ascertain their problems. Only a few departments were covered and the panchayat was not carried forward. On this, Kamboj said students don’t come forward to report their problems. At the time of his victory, he was asked what he would do after assuming charge of the council. He replied that sanitation is the biggest problem and he would tackle it on priority. But just four days before the end of his term, he was seen with the council secretary, replacing old dustbins at the University. He says he has done better than the last student council as far as interaction with students is concerned.
 
 Karanvir Singh, vice-president
 
 Agenda | “I will work to provide basic facilities like clean washrooms, better infrastructure and other basic needs. All this is doable. Being a hosteller, I know the inmates’ concerns for cleanliness. I will ensure that our hostels are clean and our party fulfills promises made in the manifesto.”
 
 Work done | Being an engineering student, Singh says it is difficult to devote time to student activities. He claims to have given the memorandum to make ramps for the disabled on campus. But the departments still don’t have ramps. While Singh admitted that he could not give 100%, he says now that he has one-year experience, he would try to accomplish unfinished projects.
 
 Vani Sood, Secretary
 
 Agenda | Since I am the only woman member of the council, I will make sure I address problems faced by women.
 
 Work done | Her agenda might have been short but the record of her work is impressive. From extending curfew time for girls from 
  to approaching authorities to get work done, she has done it all. During inauguration of the Neerja Bhanot girls’ hostel number 10, PU vice-chancellor Prof Arun Kumar Grover recalled how Sood would always keep herself updated with the status of the work completed.
 
 Sood tried to revive Pinjra Tod but did not get students’ support. She also initiated the trial project of the sanitary napkin dispensing machine, which could not take off because of technical glitches in the tendering process. Sood claims that she was successful in getting a security helpline number for students. 
 , with her term nearing its end, she proposed creation of two hostels, one each for boys and girls to resolve the problem of accommodation.
 
 Karan Randhawa, joint secretary
 
 Agenda | I will work for students
 
 Work done | Towards the end of his tenure, he, with the help of the University authorities, started self-defense classes on campus for women. The first thing he did as soon as he assumed charge was to enhance parking space at UILS. There was shortage of parking space for students and it still exists. But he did manage to create additional space. He claims that washrooms of the department of education have been renovated because of his efforts. The volleyball court in UIET is another claim Randhawa makes. Like Sood, he has been quite accessible to students throughout the year.
 
 
