MANGALURU: Former   B   slammed DKDCC president Harish Kumar and KPCC vice-president U B Venkatesh for leaving in the middle of his media briefing, here on Wednesday. The duo, who were apparently summoned to be with former finance minister P Chidambaram campaigning in the district, left even as Poojary was making a passionate plea to the stakeholders not to be swayed by propaganda against party candidate  .

 A visibly piqued Poojary lashed out at the leaders who were by then away from earshot. “Why should you leaders go after Chidambaram? Don’t I know who Chidambaram is? Didn’t he come in search of me at the Circuit House when I was in power,” Poojary shot back at former mayor M Shashidhar Hegde, who informed Poojary about the reason for their sudden departure. “If the BJP is to tell people about everything Chidambaram did, the Congress will be wiped out,” Poojary said.
 
 Blowing hot and cold over  , Poojary said he “advised” the chief minister (CM) for the last year to mend his ways, lest his haughtiness cost the party dear in Karnataka. Averring that the CM did not fully pay heed to his advise, Poojary said the Congress will pay a price for it in these elections. Poojary in the same breath also said the Congress will return to power in the state under Siddaramaiah, leaving the leaders and party workers in a dilemma regarding these  .
 
 Earlier, defending Lobo against propaganda that he is anti-Bunt, over his stance on naming LHH Road after former CMD of Vijaya Bank, Mulki Sundar Ram Shetty, Poojary said the Congress backed and empowered the Bunt community. “The Congress has backed all communities and has not differentiated among any community,” he said, adding it is this policy of the party that has stood it in good stead. “The Congress will be finished in the days to come, if it strays away from this policy,” he warned.
 
 On the visit of BJP party chief   to   at Kudroli, of which he is the chief patron, Poojary said anyone including Amit Shah is free to visit the temple, or any religious institution for that matter. “Shah has come and prayed at the temple and I wish him well,” Poojary said, defending in the same vein the visit of local RSS leader Kalladka Prabhakar Bhat to the temple when his biography was released. “Isnt’ Bhat God’s child too,” Poojary shot back, when confronted with this.
 
 
