Trichy: Come May, all the PhD theses submitted in Bharathidasan University will go for review only after being tested for plagiarism though the Urkund software. The UGC had a year ago recommended Urkund over another software called Turnitin which was being used then. 

 The software was used heavily to check research papers as well as PhD and M Phil theses for plagiarised content by faculty members in the university. However, the university was yet to formally adopt Urkund and was expected to do it in May. A fully-automated system for handling plagiarism, the software is also being used to help check research work from affiliated colleges. 
 
 “Urkund software is used in European universities to check student activities and it is now being adopted by the MHRD which has given access to the universities,” said S Srinvasaragavan, head, department of library and information sciences at BDU. “We gave access to a total of 212 faculty members in the university after gaining access last year. The software has been used over 1,000 times by faculty members and the numbers are increasing,” he said.
 
 He further added that the facility was also available in the library where faculty members from affiliated colleges too could use it. They could either contact the university over mail or come in person to the library to check research papers and PhD thesis for plagiarism, he said. Many reputed international e-journals seek plagiarism check even to take research papers for review before publishing. 
 
 “While they have their own anti plagiarism software, the check comes with a cost and if the similarities are found to be under permissible limits, the research paper is taken for review,” said a faculty member. “With the access to Urkund available, we can now have check on our own before sending research papers for publishing,” said the faculty member. 
 
 VC P Manisankar said that he had called for a meeting of the review committee to adopt the UGC regulations that include measure for anti-plagiarism including effective usage of Urkund software. Research guides would be asked to certify PhD theses of their scholars before submitting. “While it has been adopted in the university, we are extending it to the affiliated colleges as well ,” he said.
 
 
