KOCHI: It is that time of the year where winged beauties from across the globe flock to wetland habitats in the district. Much to the delight of avian enthusiast’s in the city, Asian Waterbird Census, an annual event of counting wetland birds which began on Saturday has found 6,295 birds belonging to 99 species.

 The census was jointly conducted by Cochin Natural History Society (CNHS) and social forestry division of Kerala forest department.
 
 The birders spotted resident as well as migratory ones like Black-Winged Stilt, Western Reef-Heron, Osprey, Lesser Whistling-Ducks, Garganey, Pallas’s Gull, Lesser Blackbacked Gull, Indian Spot-billed Duck, Brown-headed Gull, Northern Pintail, Green-winged Teal, Little Cormorants, Ashy Prinia, Indian Pond Herons, Wolly necked stork, Eurasian moorhen and booted Eagle,” said Vishnupriyan Kartha, secretary, Cochin Natural History Society.
 
 “We also found four near threatened species as per IUCN Red List ––Oriental Darters, Black-headed Ibis, Black-tailed Godwit and Spot-billed Pelicans,” said Kartha.
 
 Jayadev Menon, an avid bird watcher, said that Siberian Stonechat was one of the rare migratory species he has spotted this time at  . “I only found one Siberian Stonechat. I hope in the coming days many more Stonechat’s come to our wetlands. It’s smaller than our house sparrows. Though it’s mainly found in  , the distribution of these species can be found in China and in South East Asian countries,” he said.
 
 Around 53 bird watchers and nature enthusiasts participated in the survey conducted in   beach; Nedumbassery; Madurappuram; Dewaswompadam and Kadamakkudy wetlands in Kandakadavu;   and Kuthirakkoorkari wetlands near Thoppumpady; and Palluruthy.
 
 “We spotted around 987 birds belonging to 52 species at Puthuvype and surrounding areas. At the wetlands of Nedumbassery and Madurappuram, 757 birds belonging to 47 species were recorded. Brahmany Kites and various types of Sandpipers were also spotted in these wetlands,” said Kartha.
 
 On whether there is significant increase or decrease in numbers, the officials at CNHS said that since last year they hadn’t included Puthuvype and other areas in the census, they won’t be able to make a statement in this regard.
 
 “The wetlands of the district are facing threats due to dumping of waste and reclamation of coastal areas. In addition, high tide in Puthuvype area has also hit the arrival of some migratory birds,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, environmentalist   expressed apprehension about the Puthuvype LPG project damaging the rich biodiversity of the area. “An assessment study conducted by a team led by former chairman of the State Biodiversity Board V S Vijayan found that the LPG plant would cause damage to 138 species of birds in the project area. Of the 138 bird species in Puthuvype, one is endangered and six are under near threatened category of the IUCN,” said Prasad.
 
 
