KOLKATA: The attack on Florida’s Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School is the 18th shooting at a school in the US within the first 45 days of 2018. The figure, available with a gun control advocacy organization called Everytown for Gun Safety, has got the Indian immigrants with school-going kids in the US worried. The gun control policy, they insist, needs a re-look.

 Oney Seal, an e-commerce entrepreneur based in Miami, lives merely six miles from the school. “My 15-year-old daughter, Trisha, goes to   in Houston. Some of the recent school incidents have taken place in Texas as well. I am constantly worried about Trisha’s safety. If a 19-year-old with a history of getting into trouble can buy military-grade automatic rifles, obviously something is grossly wrong with the US gun policy and the background check,” he said.
 
  
 Miami-based director Suman Ghosh has been left with a feeling of “disgust” for the Republican gun policies when he first heard about the Florida massacre that killed 17. His two daughters, Maya (5) and Leela (3), go to Alexander Montessori. That’s some 20 miles from Coral Springs, where the 19-year-old boy, armed with an AR-15 rifle, stalked the Florida school. Currently in Kolkata, Ghosh is upset with the recent sexual abuse allegations at schools. “I haven’t heard of such violations in school in the US. But gun scare on campus is a major concern,” he said. “The Republican party is a strong supporter of gun possession for terror defence. I find it almost inhuman to understand how a party can support such an obnoxious policy,” said Ghosh, economics professor at Florida Atlantic University.
 
 Los Angeles-based Shoumyo Dasgupta, chief data science officer at Viacom, is apprehensive about his children’s safety. His daughter, Hashnu, will graduate from the University of Washington at Seattle this year. Son   will finish high school in June. A year ago, there was a gun scare at Roddur’s Northwood High School in California’s Irvine. For Dasgupta, the Florida school attack brought back memories of the three tense hours he underwent during the “lockdown” at Roddur’s school. “Gun control has to be reviewed; taking the guns away may not solve it,” he said.
 
 
