GURGAON: Haryana’s forest department on Saturday announced a host of steps to be taken by April to increase surveillance in the   so that any ‘non-forest activity’, like cutting trees, building roads and encroachments, can be spotted and prevented. 

 The department expects to achieve this by using drones to patrol the ranges and its most ecologically sensitive areas. The forest department has also committed to setting up 35 check posts, as well as ensure round the clock deployment of the Aravali task force, within the next 10 days. The maximum number of check posts (15) will be started in the Mewat area, 11 in Gurgaon and nine in the Faridabad zone. 
 
 The Aravali task force, officials said, will be deployed for 24x7 patrolling in the forest area during this period. These decision were taken at a meeting of senior officials chaired by state forest minister   and come in the wake of repeated breaches of the Aravalis’ ecological sanctity. The meeting was called after the ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) asked the state and regional offices of the forest department to submit a status report on deployment of the Aravali task force. 
 
 At present, checking violations like tree-felling and unauthorised construction work is difficult and with influential people buying land in the Aravalis, the forest department lands in uncomfortable situations when it tries to penalise violators. Vinod Kumar, conservator of forest (Wildlife), Gurgaon Circle, said, “Using drones is the best way to patrol forest areas. Drones are better than satellites in capturing images. As of now, we are going to have one   in the Gurgaon area. The drone will be able to zoom into areas, so that if there is any violation – tree cutting or encroachment — it can be tracked. 
 
 
  
  
 Drones can take videos that become important evidence in these cases. We will release a tender and I think the drone should be in place by April 2018. We will also train the staff in this area on how to use it efficiently.” The other steps announced include construction of new water holes and filling the existing ones with water for animals. 
 
 A toll-free helpline number will also be operational within 10 days and   of Gurgaon (MCG) will be instructed to prevent dumping of garbage in the forest area. Officials from the state forest department and regional forest office met the Rao Narbir Singh on Saturday morning and decided to take the crucial steps to protect the Aravalis. Environmental activists, members of   (AWBI) and a member of wildlife crime control bureau also attended the meeting.
