Inflammation! Remember your childhood days when you fell and got injured? It became red, tender and swollen, didn’t it? That was inflammation. The body’s inflammatory response is an important part of the healing process. Temporary or acute,   sends blood and immune cells to the area of an injury or infection, killing invading organisms and speeding tissue repair.   on the other hand, is the immune system gone haywire. When the body’s healing and infection-eliminating mechanism is continually switched on because of obesity, sedentary lifestyle and continuous stress; the body remains in a state of continuous inflammation. This chronic inflammation wreaks havoc in the body and increases your chances of developing everything from allergies to rheumatoid arthritis. Let’s see what it does to your heart. 

 For many years, researchers believed that coronary heart disease was all about cholesterol accumulating in arteries. Many scientists now believe that inflammation, not cholesterol or saturated fat, may be the critical underlying cause of heart disease. Inflammation is common for heart disease and stroke patients. Buildup of fatty deposits in the inner walls of the arteries (i.e. atherosclerosis) narrows the arteries and increases the risk. The body perceives this fatty deposit or cholesterol (i.e. plaque) in the blood vessel as an abnormal and foreign body. In response the body tries to wall off the plaque from the flowing blood and that plaque may rupture during flow in narrow blood vessels and it’s walled off contents can come in contact with blood and trigger the formation of a blood clot. The combination of plaque and blood clots obstructs the blood flow. If an artery to the heart is blocked, it can cause a Heart Attack; while a blocked artery in or leading to brain causes an Ischemic Stroke.
 
 We need to the reduce risk of developing chronic inflammation. Observe anti-inflammatory lifestyle. Inhaling smoke triggers an immune response similar to that of a blood vessel injury. The resulting inflammatory compounds can lead to plaque deposits and narrowed vessels. So kick the butt. If you carry too much of body fat, your tissues are flooded with chemicals that cause inflammation. 
 
 Reduce body fats and maintain healthy weight. It’s important to exercise regularly as it helps to reduce levels of inflammatory chemicals. Eat a lot of fruits and vegetables esp. food items like turmeric, strawberries, blueberries, fish, broccoli which help to reduce inflammation. Quit smoking, avoid smoke inhalation and try to manage stress. Give yourself the opportunity to live a life filled with vitality and health.
 
 
 
 
