PANAJI: In a bid to reduce traffic congestion at toll plazas and ensure no leakage of toll revenue, the state government, through a recent notification issued by the transport department recently, has mandated the fitment of FASTag on certain vehicles. Currently, this order has little or no impact for Goa.

 This is owing to the fact that there are currently no toll booths in Goa, only checkposts through which vehicles pass at the border. Here, only motor vehicle tax and passenger tax for commercial vehicles are collected depending on vehicle type and type of permit of the vehicle.
 
 
  
 
 Since Goa does not have a toll booth, this raises the question as to how will this rule function in the state. 
 
 “The order has come from the central government therefore it is a compulsion. All vehicles now on will have to have  , even private ones. Subsequently, there may be direction from the central government to have them for old vehicles as well,” a transport official reasoned.
 
 The notification follows amendment to Central Motor Vehicle Rules, 1989, by the central government as per powers vested in it under Motor Vehicles Act, 1989. The fitment of FASTags, according to the notification, is to be on category M and N vehicles (see infographic) sold on and after December 1, 2017, by the manufacturer or the authorized dealer of the vehicle.
 
 Fixed on the front windscreen of vehicles (often by the car dealership), this device uses radio frequency identification (RFID) technology. The FASTag allows vehicles to pass through toll plazas, without waiting in the queue as the payment is made electronically and make toll payments directly from the prepaid or savings account linked to it.
 
 “The FASTags can be activated by users through their respective bank. The RTOs will ensure that all vehicles sold after December 1 have this technology,” the official said.
 
 As far as toll booths are concerned, that infrastructure is also waiting to happen. These may materialize after the four-laning and six-laning of roads, sources from the department said.
 
 “The PWD with grants from the central government is getting the lanes done. If these roads are manned by the  , they may have to set up toll booths,” they said.
 
 “We require radars, interceptors and surveillance system at these toll booths. Without them, the FASTags cannot be detected,” an enforcement official told TOI.
 
 The notification which has come into effect from January 29 onwards, stated that, in case of any vehicle which is sold in the form of drive-away-chassis without windscreen, FASTags shall be fitted on the windscreen by the vehicle owner before the registration of such vehicles.
 
 
