NAVI MUMBAI: The   has sentenced to six months jail an engineering college principal who was arrested for allegedly   while   on   in March 2015.

 Sunil Chavan (51), principal of   in Kopar Khairane, was convicted only for   under the Motor Vehicle Act as the son of the deceased, Joyce Kuttikal (51), told the court she had been suffering from several ailments so might have collapsed on the road. Kuttikal’s son also said he had not seen Chavan’s car hitting her.
 
 The incident happened on March 22, 2015, near Sanpada junction. Chavan, who was under the influence of liquor, allegedly crashed his car into a religious procession and injured two women. While Kuttikal died in hospital, the other woman, Judy Buthelo (49), suffered fracture in shoulder. The Turbhe police, now Sanpada police, arrested Chavan on the spot.
 
 The Turbhe police had registered an FIR under section 185 of the MV Act for drunk driving as well as section 184 of MV Act and IPC Section 304A for culpable homicide not amounting to murder, which attracts 10 years rigorous imprisonment.
 
 Though some witnesses, including policemen, testified seeing Chavan’s car hitting two women, the accused's lawyer pleaded not guilty as there was no concrete evidence like CCTV footage. Hence, the judge, AS Bhaisare, considered only the MV Act and sentenced Chavan to 6 months’ jail and imposed Rs 1,000 penalty on him.
 
 Government pleader Sangita Phad told TOI, “The judge gave the judgement based on the testimony of the deceased woman's son, which was in favour of the accused as he told the court that his mother had several ailments and the cause of death was head injury. Also it could not be confirmed that the injury was caused due to being hit by the car. Besides, some policemen who were deployed to provide for security for the procession said they did not see the car hitting the women as they were in the front of the procession and the accident occurred at the end. The other victim, who was injured, said the car first hit the deceased and then her.”
 
 
