AHMEDABAD: Power distribution companies in state have approached   Electricity Regulatory Commission (GERC) seeking a hike in fuel price and power purchase adjustment (FPPPA) base price or fuel surcharge. 

 However, none have sought any increase in basic electricity tariffs for fiscal 2018-19. A power company is allowed to offset increase or decrease in fuel cost by way of FPPPA, also known as fuel surcharge.
 
 The four distribution companies — UGVCL, MGVCL, DGVCL and PGVCL — have proposed raising basic FPPPA by 6 paise per unit from Rs 1.43/unit to Rs 1.49/unit for the fiscal 2018-19.
 
 Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Ltd (GUVNL) affiliated discoms have filed petitions with the GERC for determination of power tariff for the next fiscal. “The discoms have only proposed 6 paise per unit hike in FPPPA leaving basic electricity tariff unchanged,” said sources in GERC.
 
 “Discoms have also demanded abolition of meter rent and proposed merging it into fixed charges. This is a welcome move as I have been demanding this for last couple of years. Besides this, discoms have demanded minor changes in category structure of consumers,” said  , a city-based power sector and regulatory expert. Although the deadline-with grace period — to file annual tariff petitions was December 31, the discoms had sought additional time of 15 days to submit their petitions in the wake of the assembly elections. “The filings were also delayed as these companies require the state government’s approval for subsidy,” Bajaj added.
 
 The final quantum of FPPPA increase, however, will be fixed by GERC after hearing all the stakeholders. While private sector company   supplies electricity to Ahmedabad,   and Surat, the state discoms cater to the rest of Gujarat. 
 
 A few days ago, Torrent Power filed its petitions with GERC and proposed no increase in basic electricity tariff but sought to levy a regulatory charge of 25 paise per unit for Ahmedabad (including Gandhinagar) and 20 paise per unit for Surat supply area to cover its past under-recoveries.
 
 
