KOCHI: The   on Tuesday asked DGP  , former director of Vigilance and  , to appear before it on April 2 to answer allegations of  .

 A division bench comprising chief justice   and justice Dama Seshadri Naidu issued the directive along with registering a suo motu case for contempt of court over the remarks allegedly made by the senior IPS officer against two sitting judges in a complaint sent to   (CVC).
 
 While ordering a personal appearance, the bench said the IPS officer has prima facie committed contempt of court. The court has also sought the assistance of advocate general CP Sudhakara Prasad in the case.
 
 The suo motu case was directed to be registered by the chief justice after considering a petition filed by high court lawyer BH Mansoor alleging that the remarks made by the senior IPS officer goes against the provisions of The Judges (Protection) Act, 1985 and amounts to contempt of court. The remarks in the complaint against the judges were not made by the IPS officer in good faith as he knew that the CVC has no authority to conduct an enquiry into the circumstances under which a judgment was passed by a sitting high court judge, advocate Mansoor had contended.
 
 Along with naming two high court judges who dealt with vigilance cases, the IPS officer had allegedly stated that several judgments made by the judges were in effect demoralizing and constraining the officers investigating corruption cases. These judgments “affected the strong commitment to investigate and collect all relevant facts in a speedy manner in corruption cases,” the senior IPS officer is alleged to have stated in the complaint to CVC.
 
 It was also allegedly stated in Jacob Thomas’ complaint that one of the judges who dealt with Pattoor land scam case discredited and humiliated him. High-profile cases were derailed or closed or negligently proceeded as a result of deficient representation by prosecutors and investigators before the two judges, the IPS officer had stated in the complaint while alleging that there was a conspiracy to discredit and humiliate him.
 
