LUCKNOW: Even as Dalits are protesting against atrocities inflicted on them, Dr B R Ambedkar’s 127th birth anniversary on Saturday has given an opportunity to political parties to stake claim to their support for the next election.

 
 With the Lok Sabha polls less than a year away, the Dalit icon’s birth anniversary celebrations will be of a scale rarely seen in the state.
 
 Union minister Smriti Irani will visit Raipur Phulwari, a Dalit dominated village in   chief Rahul Gandhi’s constituency, Amethi, on Saturday and offer tributes at an Ambedkar statue. “She will also speak to locals and address their concerns,” said BJP’s Amethi in-charge Govind Singh Chauhan. The minister will also flag off a bike rally.   plans to rope in Dalit youths for the rally.
 
 Significantly, Irani had found herself in the midst of a controversy in 2016 when she entered into a heated row with BSP chief   in Rajya Sabha over the death of Hyderabad-based Dalit scholar Rohith Vemula. Irani, the then HRD minister, had confronted Mayawati after the latter demanded inclusion of a Dalit in the inquiry into the death.
 
 BJP has been attempting to woo Dalits even as a host of its MPs have protested over atrocities inflicted on them. The party plans to organise various programmes in Dalit-dominated villages between April 14 and May 5. “The party observes   as Samajik Samrasta Diwas (social equality day),” said UP BJP spokesman Rakesh Tripathi.
 
 SP, which has issued directions to all its zonal units to celebrate the Jayanti, has organised an event at its Lucknow office which will be presided over by party chief Akhilesh Yadav. “We will pledge to work for the poor and marginalised, as Ambedkar himself did,” said SP’s Rajendra Chaudhary. SP vehemently denied this was the first time it was celebrating the Jayanti in such a grand way.
 
 BSP has asked its supporters to gather at Ambedkar Samjik Parivartan Prateek Sthal on Saturday for a celebration, but Mayawati will not be a part as she is in Delhi.
 
 A rift that appeared within Ambedkar Mahasabha after announcement of ‘Dalit Mitra’ award for CM Yogi Adityanath widened on Friday when its founding members dashed off a letter to the CM accusing his government of ignoring the Centre’s directions on setting up special courts to hear cases of Dalit atrocities.
 
 
