RAIPUR: Chhattisgarh forest department and   (WTI) are trying to   from Assam (Manas) to Barnawapara with its population recorded 12 as per the latest count.

 Due to hovering risk of extinction, WTI and forest department have made a shelter on land of ten acres at Barnawapara while another shelter has been constructed at Udanti Sitanadi reserve. The wild buffalos from Assam would be kept in Barnawapara after the approval from Centre. 
 
 The wild buffalo, an endangered species is listed in schedule I as Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. It was declared as state animal of Chhattisgarh in July 4, 2001 when officially their figure was about 160 in state. The population was counted only six in 2006 raising concern among officials which gradually increased to 12 animals with various conservation efforts jointly by state forest department and WTI.
 
 In order to monitor the wild buffalos’ movement and activities, radio collars were installed on two buffalos in March last year. 
 
 Amid several efforts and awareness campaigns underway, WTI had also simultaneously launched an extensive wall painting drive across the city of Raipur and Mainpur (Udanti), featuring the wild buffalo and the hill myna. This eventually laid down the theme for the 2018 calendar launched by the forest minister Mahesh Gagda on January 3.
 
 “We believe that the drive will help the wild buffalo get its deserved attention at both the national and state level, while helping build a generation that cares and protects its unique wildlife heritage,” said R.P. Mishra, WTI, project head, Central India Wild buffalo Recovery Project.
 
 The wall calendar, in particular is being widely distributed in the rural areas around Udanti such that people come to recognize, appreciate, protect and spread the word about the species.
 
 On the November 14, 2017, Wild Buffalo Mascot (Shyamu-Radhe) was officially launched by Chief Minister Raman Singh during 8th meeting of Chhattisgarh State Wildlife Board. The mascot has become a representative of the state animal that would help reach out to all demographics.
 
