JALNA/BEED: As they stand in the remains of their farm with discarded grapes strewn around their feet, 83-year-old   Shelke and her daughterin-law   burst into tears. A hailstorm ten days ago claimed their grape harvest in Jalna’s Revgaon village; it was expected to fetch them a handsome Rs8 lakh. They were hoping it would compensate for their cotton crop, wrecked by the pink bollworm pest that has swept through Vidarbha and Marathwada.

 
 “Most women in our family have no jewellery left. In the last five years, we had three years of drought. We had a good monsoon last year but our cotton crop was eaten by pests. Now our grapes are gone too,” said Aasrabai’s son  . Families across Vidarbha and Marathwada are grappling with the double whammy of hailstorms after the largest pest attack of the pink bollworm on their cotton fields. After losing cotton crop over the last year, their winter crop of fruits, jowar and wheat was meant to be their lifeline.
 
  
 Nearly 3 lakh hectares of rabi crop was hit by hailstorms, which are expected to strike again in north Maharashtra. Over 80% of cotton crop in the state was impacted by the pink bollworm, according to the revenue department. The state has 42 lakh hectares under cotton crop. 34 lakh hectares of cotton fields have been affected. In Beed district, Ankush Chalak’s family lost most of their 7-acre cotton field to the pest attack. “We usually got a yield worth Rs4 lakh. This year, we will not even make Rs2 lakh,” he rued. The hailstorm claimed their jowar field too.
 
 Around 98% of cotton crop in the state uses BT cotton seeds. But while the BT cotton trait BGII claims to have resistance against the American and pink bollworm, the pest attack has renewed questions over the claim. The state had written to the Centre last year to have BGII denotified as it had lost resistance to pink bollworm, but the proposal did not proceed. The government says it has advised seed companies to declare BGII is not resistant to pink bollworm. “If they don’t, they will have to face the liability of compensation claims from farmers. We have also advised short duration BT seeds be planted as this breaks the pest’s life-cycle,” said state agriculture secretary  .
 
 BGII technology was developed by global seed giant Monsanto and marketed in India through the joint venture firm  , which licenses the technology to Indian seed companies. BGII was launched in 2006.
 
 A   (India)   spokesperson has contested the drop in yield, saying cotton arrivals are in line with last year’s data. The company also said farmers need to be helped to follow integrated pest management practices to prevent pest attacks. It said some factors that led to increased infestation are lack of non-BT refuge planting, use of unapproved BT seeds and prolonging the crop cycle over the recommended period.
 
 Around 13 lakh farmers have filed compensation claims but the process of dispensing it is yet to begin. The state had declared compensation of Rs30,380 per hectare. Of this, around half is to be paid by the seed company and the rest through crop insurance and National Disaster Relief Fund.
 
 Meanwhile, distress is growing. “I wanted to send both my sons to a private school this year. But now I cannot afford it,” said Babasaheb Golde, who lost his cotton field to the bollworm and grape farm to the hailstorm. His sister-in-law Sita has sold 4 tolas of gold to raise money but has lost hopes of recovering it. “How do we raise money for next crop?” she asked.
 
