CHENNAI: High   prices deterred gold buyers impacting bullion sales on Akshaya Tritiya— considered an auspicious day to buy gold. Jewelers complained of less than normal purchase.

 Against a standard sales growth of 15-20%, jewellers saw flat growth in sales on Wednesday. Gold prices that hovered around Rs 2,778 a gram last year, were at Rs 2,992 on Wednesday.
 
 Sales began lukewarm, but turned brisk for some by evening.“The sentiments are weak. Prices are higher and we see an average ticket size at 10-12 grams, while on other days we see a sale of 24 grams. Footfall, however, has remained the same,” N Ananthapadmanabhan, MD of   said.
 
 The scam tainted jewellery sector has spooked routine gold buyers. “I usually make my yearly investment on gold and sometimes make a periodical monthly payment as a run up investment to next year’s purchase. Looking at the situation, I have made a token purchase of earrings because we don’t know which chain will fold next,” said Subashini S, a customer.
 
 However, all is not lost, jewellers claim. With deep discounts, some as high as 25% and waiving of making charges, some jewellers were able to maintain footfalls as last years levels.
 
 Large organised jewllery chains like   and   have seen an increase in the sale this year from offers such as free gold coins. T S Kalyanaraman, CMD, Kalyan Jewellers said, “We are enthused by the sales on the occasion of Akshaya Tritiya across the country. The momentum of customers has only increased during the day. We have witnessed over 25% growth in sales for the same period last year.”
 
 Gold sales for LKS Syed Ahmed, chairman   was a surprise this year. He said his outlets in Chrompet and Anna Nagar saw brisk sales than his TNagar store. “We have been running discounts, offering gold at the lowest price possible and pre-bookings have done well. Customers are inclined to buy chains and bangles. One can also attribute the lower footfall to increase in number of outlets each jeweller has added in the past year,” he added. 
 
 Overall, despite high prices, impact of GST, jewellers were able to maintain same sales, despite a usual increase of 15% every year on the occasion, said Jayantilal Challani, president, Madras Jewellers and Diamond Merchants Association.
 
 
