MUMBAI: Speaking into TV mikes with a furrowed brow and with arms crossed over a shirt worn tightly over ri-ppling chest muscles and bulging biceps,   was every schoolboy's image of what an ideal cop should be. But behind his tough exterior, fuelling all that brawn was a brilliant mind. 

 An alumnus of St Xavier's College, Roy made it as a CA before clearing the civil services exam to become an IPS officer in 1988. "He had a good grasp of cases, especially economic offences," said former police commissioner A N Roy. "When I was police commissioner, Himanshu was DCP (zone 1). He was very sharp. He was prompt in taking action."
 
 Himanshu Roy was first posted in Mumbai, briefly, as a deputy commissioner, before being shifted to Nashik as an SP, where he stayed for long. Once back in the Maharashtra capital, he took the city by storm when he assumed command of the elite crime branch in 2009. He was always in demand owing to his ability to take a case to its logical end. Successive chief ministers and home ministers considered him among the state's most important police officers.
 
 Among Roy's most sensitive cases was the murder of journalist  , involving gangster Chhota Rajan. Working with almost nonexistent leads, Roy was able to nail the crime on Rajan and his associates, so much so that it became the strongest case against the gangster, who was convicted a week ago. 
 
 His other high-profile cases included the   gang rape and the 2013 IPL spot-fixing case.
 
 A crucial assignment for Roy was the shifting of terrorist Ajmal Kasab from Arthur Road Jail to Pune's Yerawada Jail for hanging. Kasab was sentenced to death for his involvement in the November 2008 attack on Mumbai. The transfer was a secret operation, entrusted to Roy by then home minister R R Patil. The world came to know of Kasab's execution only after the event.
 
 Roy was also a connoisseur of classical music. "He was a great fan of  ," said former vice-principal of St Xavier's College, Asha Naithani-Dayma. 
 
 
