NEW DELHI: A group of   allegedly raised   regarding Pakistan founder   in the campus on Tuesday, leading to a   at the campus gates. The incident followed the row at Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) in Uttar Pradesh over the presence of a portrait of   in their campus.

 Around 25 people marched to protest the “discrimination against Hindu students”, and the “presence of Jinnah lovers” in the campus. The protesters reached the Jamia campus around 5.30 pm, when semester exams and entrance tests were still underway.
 
 “They were raising slogans like ‘Jinnah premi desh chhoro’ (Jinnah lovers leave the country), and ‘Hinduon ka apmaan nahi sahega Hindustan’ (Hindustan won’t tolerate insult against Hindus),” said Mohammad Tasleem, a student TOI spoke to. “Some of the students got angry at the allegations that the people at Jamia disrespect the Hindu students. This led to an argument and a scuffle took place.”
 
 Some students alleged that all the protesters were from Jamia. “Most of them were outsiders. Exams are going on in the university, and their motive was to disrupt the ambience,” said Laraib Ahmed, a second year masters student.
 
 Hundreds of students then later assembled at Gate number 7 of the campus, raising slogans against the ‘outsiders’ who came to the campus. “Any Jamia student who was part of the protest, intending to malign the secular name of Jamia, they should be banned from the campus,” Tasleem said. 
 
 He added that one student, Rahul Tiwari, was part of the protest and had posted on his Facebook wall on Tuesday. “He tried to incite violence, by writing that supporters of Jinnah should meet him where he would beat them up,” Ahmed said.
 
 Responding to the allegations, Tiwari said, “Many complain about how Jamia students don’t allow space for alternate views and often threaten them. It is to protest this that the Hindu students of Jamia came out today as their views should also matter to the administration.”
 
 On the Facebook post written by him, Tiwari said, “It was a rhetorical statement. We had protested against Jinnah lovers in the campus and hoped that we don’t find any.”
 
 The Jamia administration came out with a statement, asking to maintain the campus peace so that exams can take place with ease. “Since the incident took place outside the gates of the campus, we can’t do anything on this,” it said.
 
 
