 contestant 
  has been a known personality behind the scenes but thanks to his participation in the reality show he is now a known face as well.

 Vikas Gupta became a household name with his antics within the Bigg Boss house. For the uninitiated, Vikas, by profession, is a TV show producer and creative director, who has a host of TV shows to his credit.
 
 Vikas has had many ups and downs in his Bigg Boss journey but he has been doing something right as his position in the reality show far from shaky. Here we will discuss the highlights of his Bigg Boss 11 journey.
 
 His on-again, off-again relationship with Shilpa Shinde: Vikas was initially at loggerheads with another contestant on the show, popular TV actress  , who's known as Angoori Bhabhi in the sitcom Bhabhiji Ghar Par Hai. Both of them have history and that's why sparks flew, not in a good way, when they met again.
 
 But, gradually, as they moved forward in the show, both of them came to terms and put their differences behind. Their love-hate equation is one of the many talking points of this season. They were seen rising to each other's defence on many occasions. In one of the episodes, Vikas went on to destroy his favourite 'Lost Boys' sweatshirt to save Shilpa Shinde from nominations. The tables turned once again in the semi-final week as one saw Vikas teaming up with   and takin a dig at Shilpa. Both of them alleged that Shilpa is least interested in the Bigg Boss tasks.
 
 Friendship with Priyank: Vikas shared a deep bond with Priyank Sharma, who had more than one emotional outburst over him. Matters came to a head when Roadies Rising and Splitsvilla X contestant,   pushed another Bigg Boss 11 contestant,  , in order to defend Vikas. Akash was making fun of Vikas' effeminate behavior and that didn't go down very well with Priyank. The latter also go evicted mid-season because of this act of physical violence.
 
 
 
 
 As the Bigg Boss journey progressed, Vikas and Priyank's friendship turned sour. Vikas didn't like the way Benafsha and Priyank were carrying on in the house. He also had a few verbal spats with him over this. Then Vikas turned a cold shoulder towards Priyank although the latter kept trying to mend the broken fences.
 
 Another highlight of Vikas Gupta's journey was his emotional reunion with his mother when she visited him in the house. Known as the 'mastermind' of the house, Vikas Gupta's emotional nature came to the surface in this episode. It was very endearing to see him get pampered by his mother. It moved many to tears.
  
  Teaming up with Hina Khan: Vikas has earned the 'Mastermind' title for a reason. He has been very intelligent in keeping his cool whenever he could manage to watch the scene from a distance. He has formed strategic alliances within the housekeeping his interest in mind. He was also seen teaming up with and conspiring with Hina Khan, who also happens to be one of the leading contestants of the show.
 
 With the finale knocking on our door, Vikas Gupta's journey is almost near its completion. What remains to be seen is if this journey will be a rewarding one.
 
 See pics:
  
  
 
