PATNA: In a major jolt to Bihar’s ruling NDA, the   has wrested the   from CM Nitish Kumar-led JD (U) with RJD candidate Shahnawaz Alam trouncing JD (U)’s Murshid Alam by a huge margin of 41,225 votes on Thursday.

 
 The   constituency, which went to the bypolls on Monday, had been won by JD (U) in 2005, 2010 and 2015. Not surprisingly, CM Kumar while electioneering had said that it was a “traditional seat” of his party.
 
 The byelection was necessitated following the resignation of JD (U) MLA Sarfaraz Alam to contest the bypoll in March this year on RJD ticket from Araria Lok Sabha constituency which had fallen vacant after his father and RJD MP Mohd Taslimuddin’s death. The MLA-elect of   is Sarfaraz’s younger brother.
 
 Thus, the seat has remained in the kitty of Taslimuddin family. Taslimuddin himself had represented Jokihat in the assembly for five terms before becoming MP from Araria. Jokihat is one of the six assembly segments of Araria parliamentary constituency.
 
 Besides Shahnawaz and Murshid, others in the fray were Ghousul Azam of MP Pappu Yadav-led Jan Adhikar Party and six Independents. While Shahnawaz fetched 81,240 votes, Murshid got 40,015 votes.
 
 According to political observers, the state NDA consisting mainly of JD (U) and BJP has miserably failed to dent the RJD’s M-Y (Muslim-Yadav) vote bank despite the fact that RJD chief Lalu Prasad has been behind bars since December last year following his conviction in fodder scam cases. Jokihat and Araria are Mulsim-dominated constituencies.
 
 The RJD win has given a fresh boost to the leadership of Lalu’s son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav who, being a first-time MLA, was initially not being considered as competent enough to run the party in the absence of Lalu. Jokihat’s is the third success for the RJD under his leadership. The party won Jehanabad assembly and Araria parliamentary bypolls in March.
 
 The RJD has now 81 MLAs in the 243-member state assembly as against JD (U)’s 70, RJD ally Congress’s 27 and JD (U) ally BJP’s 53 MLAs. The CPI-ML has three MLAs, the LJP and RLSP have two MLAs each and the HAM has one MLA. There are four Independents. 
 
 Tejashwi’s was an acerbic reaction. “The number of votes JD (U) got is less than our victory margin... The voters are taking revenge for Nitish’s U-turn,” he said, referring to Nitish’s decision to part ways with pre-poll ally RJD and form a new government in alliance with BJP in July 2017.
 
 The JD (U), on the other hand, attributed the RJD victory to ‘Taslimuddin factor’. “If Jokihat voters want a particular family to represent them in the legislature, we respect their mandate,” JD (U) spokesperson Neraj Kumar said and added his party would continue to work for the minorities.
 
 
