Noida has turned second home for actors  ,  ,   and Simran, who have been shooting for director Abhishek Dixit’s ' ' in   for over a month. About 200 students and faculty members of the university are playing small roles in the film, while some have also assisted the director. 

 
  
  Tushar Pandey (third from left), Anshuman Malhotra (in orange) with students at a college in Greater Noida 
 
  
 'Pink' actor Tushar Pandey, who is shooting in Noida for the first time, says that the city gives him good vibes. "Shooting in a college is an advantage for us. You get the right atmosphere here and it also helps in portraying the character of a college student. It is fun to shoot here, we can walk over to any group and join them in a basketball or football match."
 
  He adds, "Shooting in Greater Noida is peaceful. We have shot in cities like Mathura, Agra and they are very chaotic. Here, we can stand on the terrace and watch the horizon. You rarely get to see such an amazing view in other cities."
 
  Tushar, who was born and brought up in Delhi and is a KMC graduate, said, "Shooting here makes me miss my college."
 
 
 Anshuman Malhotra, who was last seen in  , says, "I left studies after class XII as I wanted to pursue acting. But I am able to experience the college life here. The students are very helpful and friendly. We play volleyball and basketball with them. We stay with the students in the hostel and roam around all night. It is so much fun."
 
  
  Prit Kamani (extreme right) prepares for a shot. After pack-up, he likes to visit the malls. “It feels great to shoot in Noida. There are so many good malls in the city. I love visiting them every time I get a chance,” he says.
 
  
 
 Prit Kamani, who plays a Noida boy in the film, says, "It feels great to shoot in Noida. There are so many good malls in the city. I love visiting them every time I get a chance. I had to shoot for some driving scenes in the film, so I also got a chance to drive around in the city. I come from Bombay, and compared to my city, I found traffic well managed in Noida. The roads are also well-maintained here."
 
  He adds, "While coming back from Agra, we also got a chance to drive on the Expressway and it is great. Ek bump nahi hai poore expressway par."
 
  
  Lights, Camera, Action: Actors shoot for the film in the campus
 
  
 Actors have become close friends with students as Ayushman Awasthi, a student of Mass Communication, tells us, "Anshuman Kanpur se hai aur main bhi Kanpur se hun so unse zyada attachment ho gayi hai. We even went for a movie with them."
 
  Vivek, a Mass Communication student, says, "Earlier, we used to knock the door and then enter their rooms. Now they say, 'arey knock kya karna hai aise hi aa jaya karo'. It feels good that they are so humble. We are friends now."
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
