KOLKATA: If Durga Puja is the ‘autumn festival’, can the ‘spring fest’ be far away? Not really. Not even the ice-cold rain can be a deterrent for the Bengali diaspora in London.

 The 1970-founded   will start the puja 24 hours in advance. BAM member from Birmingham Ujjal Ghosh said, “This matches with the almanac timings as we are nearly five hours behind.”
 
 Some will celebrate the puja next weekend though. But not much would be missed at the North West London   (NWLSP), or the Croydon Bengali Connection (CBC) Saraswati Puja.
 
 There’s everything at various pujas around London. While khichuri, papad bhaja, chutney and labra adorn the platter, hatekhodi, pushpanjali, etc add to the festive flavours that the homesick Bengalis can relish.
 
 Suranjan Som of NWLSP said “Our puja started when eight like-minded families from Rayners Lane, Harrow wished to celebrate their culture away from home. We also wanted the next generation to understand the excitement of such events.” NWLSP will organize its 11th puja this year.
 
 Sarada Basu, a member of CBC Saraswati Pujo, which is in its seventh year, said, “Till las year a jute idol from   would be brought for the pujo. But this time, the idol has come from Kumortuli. Last year, the theme was Sister Nivedita, ahead of her 150th birth anniversary celebrations. This year’s theme is ‘Mile Sur Mera Tumhara’ that will highlight India’s unity in diversity. 
 
 “The Puja will be attended by Croydon’s ex-MP and Teresa May’s chief of staff Gavin Barwell,” Basu said.
 
 Prasanta Banerjee, a member of Sanskriti Saraswati Puja, which started in 2008, said, “Even though we need to compromise on dates and other aspects, our Pujo is always a success.” “I couldn’t miss the festive feeling. It’s no mean feat performing the pujo, cooking for 300 guests or organizing dance programmes and plays among nine-ten families,” Banerjee said. 
 
 Nilotpal Mondal, a member of the Puja organised by Bengali association “Adda” in Slough said, “Saraswati Puja is a great way of promoting Bengali heritage. Last year, we had a footfall of around 500.”
 
 
