MUMBAI: The city’s—indeed the country’s—oldest flyover, at Kemps Corner, is safe for motorists. The   gave this assurance after a photo and video showing a gap between two joints of the bridge went viral on social media on Sunday. There were also rumours of traffic being diverted because of it, though this was denied by police. 

 Civic officials said the gap shown in the photo has “always existed” because of structural issues. The approximately halfkm bridge was constructed in 1965. The contractor was not satisfied with foundation conditions and wanted four additional months to make modifications. But the municipal corporation was in a hurry to open the flyover and did so after taking an assurance from the contractor that the gap wouldn’t cause any structural damage.
 
 On social media, one of the comments accompanying the picture was: “This definitely does not look right. Need to get this addressed. 
 
 Please forward and share with as many (people as possible).” Politician Aaditya Thackeray took note and tweeted: “Regarding the photo of Kemp’s Corner flyover, I spoke with the municipal commissioner. Albeit the concern is legitimate, I request everyone not to panic as the alignment of the joint has a fault of levelling since its construction in 1965. However, the commissioner has asked the BMC to anyway carry out an audit soon and take necessary steps, if any…” 
 
 Civic chief Ajoy Mehta responded by saying, “We conduct structural audits of all bridges (in the city) regularly.” 
 
 The BMC produced a 1990 letter to the then civic chief by engineer Shirish Patel, whose firm had designed the bridge. It said the foundation conditions turned out to be very different from what was anticipated. “To have (re-done the joint) the way we wanted would have meant waiting for upto 4 months... We told BMC there would be no structural damage, but warned them that motorists would feel a bump while going over the joint.” The BMC then said it preferred it that way as a bump would slow down traffic and prevent accidents.
 
 
