PUNE: The owners of land to be acquired for the proposed   airport stand to get higher compensation in the “direct purchase system,” said Saurabh Rao, the Pune district collector. 

 In the wake of the proposed airport getting the defence ministry’s clearance, the collector assured the landowners that all alternatives will be discussed before finalising a compensation model.
 
 Rao assured that the direct compensation model can fetch the landholders considerably more than the ready reckoner rates or the market value of the lands, provided they do not approach the court to increase the compensation amount later. The proposal is set to be discussed in a separate meeting under Valsa Nair Singh, the principal secretary of civil aviation, on Wednesday. Rao assured the landowner that the compensation models, that will be considered, will not be less than the Navi Mumbai compensation model.
 
 Earlier, Maharsahtra chief minister   too had endorsed the direct purchase system. In a message to TOI, the chief minister had said the direct purchase system would help in speeding up the land acquisition process in the seven villages of Purandar taluka.
 
 Wednesday’s meeting will seek to officially appoint the collector to negotiate with the landowners. Moreover, the meeting will also initiate the process for government notifications on lands and survey numbers to be acquired as well as the alternative compensation models.
 
 The Pune district administration is set to acquire 3,000 hectares, of which only 200 hectares belong to the government. “The project will need 2,367 hectares. While the main airport will come up on 1,100 hectares, the remaining land will be used for ancillary purposes including convention centres, commercial establishments, cargo hub, hotels etc. to make the airport financially viable,” said the Pune district collector.
 
 The revenue administration and the   (MADC), which will look into the operations of the airport, have decided that they would begin work on the Detailed Project Report (DPR) and land acquisition only after initiating a dialogue with the locals.
 
 Meanwhile, the collector has sought five deputy collectors to speed up the land acquisition and compensation talks. He has set a target of six to eight months to complete the acquisition process. Rao said each of the deputy collectors will be responsible for the acquisition of 600 hectares for the project.
 
 Ahead of the acquisition, the revenue administration has completed the process to update the revenue record for these villages. Even the title corrections have been done to ensure a smooth land acquisition process. 
 
 “The DPR, readying documents for land acquisition as well as the global tender for the operations will be floated simultaneously,” said Rao.
 
 Earlier this month, the state cabinet had approved a proposal to give 22.5% of the value of the developed plots as compensation to the project-affected persons, whose lands were acquired by  , which is acquiring land for the   airport project. The state-run undertaking has acquired 671 hectares of private land, owned by 1,200 villagers in 10 villages of Navi Mumbai.
 
 
