NAGPUR: Transgender activist Laxmi Narayan   on Friday hit out at politicians for not maintaining a neutral stand when it came to deal with the   community and accused them of adopting discriminatory tactics. In fact, she said, “Gender has been raped by politicians by grossly misusing the laws of the land.”

 Speaking on ‘Gender equality: Myth or reality’ at the National Students Parliament, organized by Raisoni Group of Institutions at its Hingna facility, Tripathi said the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender community members were at the receiving end of the society for decades and the successive governments failed to address their problems despite launching struggles for their rights.
 
 In her hard-hitting speech, Tripathi shamed the society as on the one hand it worships Goddesses and on the other hand people rape girls who are seen in the form of a deity. Had children been taught to respect girls during their formative years, such heinous acts would not have happened. Though the laws are women-centric, the male-dominant society continues to exploit them to no end, she added. In a lighter vein, she said, “I need a brother like Ravana who put everything at stake to protect the dignity of his sister.
 
 By her own admission, Tripathi said that was sexually assaulted when she was young. Such incidents are not one-off and with India boasting of rich culture and traditions, women are repeatedly raped. The condition of transgenders is even more horrendous, she said.
 
 Addressing the gathering, news anchor-turned-politician Shazia Ilmi said that gender equality was more of a mental attitude than the materialistic one. Therefore, it becomes the duty of every individual to fight for their rights. She opined that women should be viewed as equal representatives of human species rather than mere objects of desire.
 
 Entrepreneur Simeran Bhasin also put forth her views on the burning issue of gender inequality. 
 
 Spiritual leader Maulana Syed Rushaid  , motivational speaker  , film actress Nagma and actor   were the chief guests at the inauguration ceremony.
 
 Chabria said that there are innumerable opportunities for students in the field of entrepreneurship provided they get proper guidance to walk successfully on their chosen path. What is required of the youngsters is understanding the importance of practice and hard work with a smart outlook. History is replete with the stories of great persons who believed that mistakes are bound to happen. Rectifying mistakes in time and standing up even after a fall is the secret of their greatness, Chabria added.
 
 Rizvi said that sticking to one’s culture is of utmost importance for the countrymen to achieve great heights, but one should also use the available resources for better results. 
 
 Nagma said, “Producing good leaders is the need of the hour and students are like revolutionaries who can change the dismal political scene where selfishness has an upper hand.
 
 Upadhyay said that educational system should be reformed and quality maintained in the interest of the nation. Students should make efforts for developing their character and work for the development of the country.
 
 ‘Caste or kabiliyat’ was the topic of another session in which experts spoke about the reservation facility at length. MP Dr Vikas Mahatme, Gauri Sawant, Swati Nakhate, Jatin Jain and   put up their views on the issue. They opined that reservation should be based on economical condition of the people rather than primarily focusing on caste. The standard of living has changed and therefore benefits of various government schemes should be passed on to the needy people, they said.
 
 
