BHUBANESWAR: On the match-eve, Shankarlal Chakraborty reminded everyone of how Willis Plaza could be “a threat” to his team. Having watched him at close quarters during his two seasons at East Bengal,   coach might have had some reasons to be wary of the Trinidadian striker.

 
 Almost turning Chakraborty prophetic, Plaza did score his first goal against Mohun Bagan on Sunday, giving his new team   the lead and threatening to turn Bagan’s ambitions upside down at a time when the Odisha capital was hit with the year's first strike of a nor’wester.
 
 What Chakraborty, however, forgot to tell everyone that he also had in his armour a striker with excellent predatory skills who happened to win the I-League’s Golden Boot for the second season running.
 
  turned Bagan’s saviour again, scoring two goals on either side of the half to script Mohun Bagan’s come-from-behind 2-1 win and stealing the thunder from Plaza at the Kalinga Stadium on Sunday.
 
 The Cameroonian needed some luck to draw parity in the first-half added-on time when he had his poor penalty blocked by Churchill Brothers goalkeeper Ricardo Cardozo but reacted timely to cash in on the rebound. Then he showed his predatory skills, providing finish to Akram Moghrabi’s assist to complete the turnaround in Bagan's favour in this solitary all-I-League pre-quarterfinal of Super Cup. 
 
 Churchill might have been more constructive in building up their attacks but the early period of the game lacked any definite vision and incisiveness in the attacking third from either team. The insipid flow of the game stirred into life in the 29th minute. Faiaz initiated a move with his trademark acceleration down the flank and sent in a measured low cross across the goalmouth. Dicka did provide a touch to it but Cardozo was equal to the task, parrying it for a corner.
 
 Churchill not only negotiated the resultant flag-kick but launched a quick-fire counter-offensive leading to their goal. Plaza, having received a ball from the deep, forced his way into the Bagan box, through the space between Eze Kingsley and   and slotted it in past Shilton.
 
 Churchill continued to keep Dicka and Co at bay as their two able-bodied centre-back --- Nigerian Osagie Monday and Lebanese Hussein Eldor --- found little difficulty in negotiating the aerial threat. However, two factors complemented each other in helping Bagan claw their way back into the contest on the cusp of halftime. First, Churchill’s central midfielder Nicolas Fernandes committed an error in judgement, trying to stop the imperious Faiaz in his tracks with a poorly-executed tackle inside the box and ending up conceding a penalty. Dicka’s first attempt from the spot lacked power and precision, allowing Cardozo to block it. However, the Cameroonian was quick in his reaction, pouncing on the rebound to make it 1-1
 
 
 Bagan returned to the field with renewed hope and Akram should have given them the lead had he not failed to Cardozo from close. But the Lebanese made amends of that mistake by turning the provider in the 70th minute, heading down Cameron Watson’s free-kick on to the path of Dicka who had the simple job of tapping it in for what turned out to be matchwinner. 
 
