NEW DELHI: In a bid to end the logjam between the bureaucracy and the political executive, Delhi government has fielded   to reach out to the various associations of the officials and employees and persuade them to bridge the trust gap created by the alleged assault of  . 

 “The accused in the alleged assault are behind bars and under investigation. So why shouldn’t the work of the people go on smoothly?” said Gautam, who sources said was handpicked by Kejriwal for the task of rapprochement. “The government has taken the first step to build mutual trust and officials too must come forward.” 
 
 Sources said the CM and deputy CM Manish Sisodia too could hold meetings with the bureaucrats after Gautam’s proposed meetings with them. The government is afraid of becoming the target of public ire should developmental work be stalled due to the crisis. The government feels the need to speed up the launches of projects and completions of development work ahead of bypolls, if held, in 20 assembly constituency.
 
 AAP has already condemned the statements of Uttam Nagar MLA Naresh Balyan, who declared, in the presence of Kejriwal, on Friday that the chief secretary had made false allegations and officials who did such things should be beaten up. The party has advised its MLAs not to make any more controversial statements targeted at bureaucrats. In a similar vein, the protests against the police raids on the CM’s residence began in different states, but not in Delhi. While protests outside will gain the party public sympathy, AAP does not want to heighten tensions in the city.
 
 Gautam told TOI on Saturday that he spoke to a senior bureaucrat in the Officers’ Forum and appealed to him to find a way out of the crisis plaguing governance ahead of the annual budget in March. The minister is expected to soon hold meetings also with the employees associations. However, there is no word on the possibility of CM Arvind Kejriwal extending an apology as is being demanded by the bureaucrats. Government sources said there was no question of an apology, especially when two MLAs have been put behind bars.
 
 AAP’s Delhi spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj also appealed to the officers to return to work so that administrative work did not get obstructed while the investigation into the alleged assault was going on.
 
 On Friday, after meeting lieutenant governor Anil Baijal over the impasse, Kejriwal had tweeted, “All of us need to work together for betterment of Delhi.” With bureaucrats absenting themselves from important meetings, the CM and ministers assured the LG that the government would be positive in improving the situation.
 
