THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Realtors in the state are on a collision course with the department of environment over one condition. This condition stipulates the allocation of a portion of the project cost for corporate social responsibility ( ) activities to avail environmental clearance ( ) for undertaking real estate projects.

 The state environmental impact assessment authority ( ) has been insisting on allocating 2% of the total project cost by the builder for taking up welfare activities of the local community in consultation with the local body. In Thiruvananthapuram, a builder who proposed a project with a total built up area of 27,627.842 sq m on a plot area of 4,088 sq m at a cost of Rs 35.65 crore was directed to comply with the CSR allocation provision.
 
 The condition is being made applicable to all real estate projects in the state. SEIAA also directed applicants to utilize CSR amount before the completion of the project and that it should be included in the annual account of the company.
 
 The expenditure statement shall be submitted to SEIAA along with the compliance report after getting certified by a chartered accountant. The builder is also directed to submit a notarized affidavit for the commitment of CSR activities before issuance of EC.
 
 SEIAA chairman   said that the condition is being made compulsory considering the adverse impact of a real estate project. “When a real estate project is over, it leaves some impact in the neighbouring locality and environment. We are demanding this allocation of a project cost for CSR as part of making sure that they make up for some of the negative impact,” he said.
 
 CREDAI (Kerala) has already expressed their dissent over the matter. “We have taken up the matter with the government. The insistence on CSR activities is something which falls beyond the limit of SEIAA. They are overstepping boundaries by making such a demand for issuing EC. Projects are undertaken after raising funds through various means and such demands affect the proponents badly,” said former national vice-president of CREDAI S N  , who is the managing director of SI property.
 
 Realtors have also raised concerns regarding conditions being put forward by SEIAA on parking. SEIAA has been following the judgment of principal bench of the national green tribunal ( ) which says that developers should give a satisfactory explanation on facilities provided for open space, recreational grounds and parking facilities at the project site as they have an important bearing on the life of people.
 
 Additional chief secretary  , who is the member secretary of SEIAA, said that no change has been effected with regard to setting aside a portion of project cost for CSR activities.
 
