Ghaziabad: The Federation of Association of Apartment Owners in   has written to chief minister Yogi Adityanath, complaining about the absence of an exit on the 10.3km Hindon   for traffic coming from Delhi and headed for Indirapuram, Vasundhara and Vaishali.

 Since there is no exit ramp, commuters who get on to the road from NH-24 have to go all the way to Raj Nagar Extension and then take a U-turn to reach Indirapuram. Lakhs of people live in Indirapuram, Vaishali and Vasundhara, and their interest has been overlooked by the authorities, Alok Kumar, president of the federation.
 
 Hindon Elevated Road has two   at the mid-point but both are one-way. One ramp is meant for incoming traffic from Vaundhara that wants to go to Raj Nagar Extension. The other is meant for traffic coming from Raj Nagar Extension that wants to descend into Indirapuram. Vehicles entering the elevated road from NH-24 can only exit at Raj Nagar Extension, where the flyover ends. 
 
 “Many people try to drive in the wrong to reduce the distance. It may lead to severe traffic issue. We have written to the CM with a hope that the issue will be given a relook,” Kumar said.
 
 VN Singh, executive engineer,  , said, “It is not possible to build a connecting road (ramp) to Indirapuram. The concept of the elevated road was to give a hurdle-free access to commuters coming from Meerut and Haridwar and going towards Delhi and vice-versa. We made a modification in the original design to cater to residents of Indirapuram and other trans-Hindon areas and built an up and down ramp at Indirapuram for this purpose. But people who are coming from Delhi to Indirapuram will have to cover the entire stretch of 10.3 km and take a U-turn from Raj Nagar Extension. Commuters coming from Delhi to Indirapuram or Vaishali need not take the elevated road. Instead, they should take a left turn near UP Gate and enter Ghaziabad.”
 
 The Federation of Apartment Owners’ Association (Raj Nagar Extension) has, meanwhile, demanded the construction of a bypass connecting the elevated road to the Raj Nagar Extension crossing and written to the CM as well. The federation said the opening of the elevated road has increased traffic flow into the residential colony and will soon lead to jams.
 
 The federation members stated there is a single road that links Shahdara (Delhi) and Mohan Nagar to Meerut via Raj Nagar Extension. “The same road will now cater to traffic on the Hindon Elevated Road. This will put immense pressure on this particular road, which has several unauthorised cuts but not traffic signals. There is a need to construct a bypass so that the residential colony is spared of unwarranted traffic issues,” said Gajendra Arya, president of the federation.
 
 
