BHUBANESWAR: The incidences of men travelling in compartments reserved for women on passenger trains falling within the   (ECoR) zone has been increasing since 2013, data provided by the   ( ) shows. 

 A total of 4,319 men were arrested last year within the jurisdiction of the East Coast Railway (ECoR) for travelling in women's compartments on passenger trains. The RPF had arrested 3,952 men in 2016, 2,887 in 2015, 2,471 in 2014 and 617 in 2013 for the same offence.
 
 Railway sources said male passengers often chose women's compartments because they were considered to be less crowded. "Men normally come to the all-woman coaches after failing to get a seat in the general compartments," said a senior railway officer. He added that the compartments earmarked for women were also sometimes used by petty criminals to hide. "Most people get up on the women's coaches unknowingly," he said.
 
 Such persons are arrested under Section 162 of The Railways Act, 1989. A senior RPF official said they produce the offenders before the Railway Magistrate's Court or the local SDJM's court, which hears the cases and imposes fines based on the gravity of the offence. The violator may be jailed if he fails to pay the fine.
 
 The RPF attributed the upward trend in the statistics to improved policing. "We are very careful about the security of women passengers. We will intensify our drive to stop men from entering the coaches reserved for women," said Atul Pathak, ECoR chief security commissioner. He said the zonal general manger, Umesh Singh, periodically reviewed the safety and security of passengers.
 
 "When other passengers disembark and I sit alone in the reserved compartment, I feel scared that a man might enter. Men should not violate the law. The railways should increase security," said Pratima Routray, a woman passenger who travels to and from Khurda regularly. 
 
 Pathak said women should report any violation of rules to station masters or the RPF personnel on duty at stations or the travelling ticket examiners. "If any woman traveller wants help from us, they can dial our helpline number 182 for assistance," he added.
 
 
