Madurai: The Madurai bench of the Madras high court on Monday quashed a notification issued by the Tamil University, Thanjavur, on November 11, 2017 prescribing postgraduate in Tamil as essential qualification for the post of assistant professor in folklore in the university. 

 Justice G R Swaminathan passed the order allowing a batch of writ petitions filed by candidates, including G Rajendran from Virudhunagar district. 
 
 During hearing, the petitioner’s counsel P Senthurpandian told the court that postgraduate in Tamil was irrelevant to be prescribed as an essential qualification to the post. 
 
 As per the regulation of the University Grants Commission (UGC), the university should prescribe concerned subject alone as minimum qualification to fill the post of assistant professor. Accordingly, folklore alone should have been prescribed as qualification for the post. But, the university prescribed postgraduate in folklore and Tamil as essential qualifications for that post. 
 
 The university’s action is an arbitrary exercise that has affected job opportunity of hundreds of people who have done higher studies from postgraduate to doctorate in folklore, who are waiting for job. Besides, the university has created high competition by including Tamil as qualification. 
 
 The maintenance of efficiency and standards in education would be adversely affected either through exclusion of eligible candidates or inclusion of ineligible candidates, the counsel added.
 
 Earlier, when the Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) had prescribed postgraduate in Tamil for the post of lecturer in folklore in 2006, a case was filed before the high court bench. The court then held that Tamil was not a relevant subject and accordingly quashed the MKU notification in that regard. 
 
 Besides, the same Tamil university did the same action of prescribing Tamil also as qualification in 2007, against which a case was filed. Then, the university withdrew its notification. Pointing out all facts, the petitioner sent a representation to the vice-chancellor of the Tamil University who however, refused to cancel the notification, the counsel argued and prayed to quash the notification prescribing Tamil as essential qualification.
 
 The university side told the court that the university was set up for the development of Tamil and therefore it prescribed Tamil as qualification. But, the court accepted the petitioner’s submission and passed the order.
 
 
