Always been fascinated by Spidey’s web? That gooey, slippery   that he spins out of his wrists? Well, this may not be the real thing but it’s as close to the sticky fantasy as can get. A bunch of youngsters are making ‘slime’ — a mix of special glue and activators —and twisting it into fun shapes and with interesting themes. These slimers (as they may be called) have hit   with their creative videos, turning the sticky substance into a viral sensation. Earlier meant to help kids with  , slime has jumped into a hobby that’s fast growing. And of late, the little jars of goop have been selling out faster than you can imagine! Here’s more….

 
 
  
  
 
 The slime is a mixture of glue — either clear or white — and an activator like borax or lens solution. Slime makers often add ingredients to make it fluffy and shimmery, such as beads and shaving foam. Ayesha Khemka (12), a resident of Lokhandwala started making slime after observing her sister’s science project. “My sister was learning how different chemicals react with different adhesives and I decided to try hand at it,” she says. She soon picked up slime making and in her mother Nivya’s words, “is now totally obsessed with it.” Adds Ayesha, “I can’t imagine a day going by without making a container of slime, I absolutely love it.” In Mumbai, it was Ayesha who started the whole slime   and now there are more youngsters who are ‘stuck to the hobby’. 
 While a studio at Prabhadevi creates blue slime aquariums replete with glitter, fishes, coral, pebbles and more, Sewri-based planner Nidhi Musaddi organises special slime birthday parties. “In it, we get kids to make the slime on the spot. It’s something that’s exciting and fascinating as you watch the slime changing forms from liquid to solid. When you play with slime, it also offers a   value as you have to concentrate on the task at hand. It thus builds focus in a fun way and I would advise everyone to try it — more so, corporate folks.” 
 
 
 Ayesha makes batches of slime every alternate weekend, and close to 70 jars are sold as soon she uploads them on social media. “People love the idea of prodding and squishing slime as it allows them to de-stress,” she says. Khar-based entrepreneur Urvi Parekh, makes various kinds of slime — magnetic, glitter, galaxy and fluffy, along with the usual variety. “Magnetic has iron fillings and it improves the pulling motion of the slime and can be drawn into various shapes. Galaxy on the other hand is glittery, gooey ball and the fluffy one has foam so it becomes very stretchy and it increases the elasticity of it. The slime also thus acts as a stress buster as you have to keep pressing just like a stress ball.” 
 
 
 
 Several other teens in Mumbai have been posting slime videos on   and   of the squishy substance. Another popular slime lover who regularly posts DIY videos, says, “I uploaded a few slime-making videos yesterday and I plan to post at least five new ones online on a daily basis. If I have more time, then maybe a few more,” he says. 
 Goregaon-based trio, Kashvi Kunder, Tvesha and Trishla Khurana who also love making slime, prepare the jars and donate the profits to an animal welfare organsiation. Says Kashvi, a student, “We prepare the slime as and when we get the orders. It’s not tough at all, it takes just about 10 minutes to make a single container.” Adds her friend Tvesha Khurana who is part of the start-up, “We are active on social media, but most of the time, we prefer to keep low profile. People tend to bully us as we are younger and it’s not safe. But if we know that the customer is genuine then we talk to the person.” 
 For the coming summer they are planning to make ‘cool slimes’ with ice cream themes as well as with bright colours like tangerines and yellows. We plan to sell clear and butter slime (made of a soft, daiso clay), soon, too,” she says. 
 Time to put away the bubble wrap and get slippery?
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 The slime-making fad is said to have started in Thailand last year when a few teens posted their videos prodding and mixing it. In a short time, it grabbed attention and soon several people across the world got into the hobby, with some accounts getting over a million followers. But it has also sparked off safety concerns and needs adult supervision. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Slime provides a finger-strengthening activity and since it gives you something to fidget with, it helps bust tension, too.
 
  
 
