NEW DELHI: Buoyed by support from the  ,   have started   on various agencies to demand rights of residents.  , confederations, and apex bodies of residents’ groups on Tuesday organised a   in   demanding a set of measures and greater transparency in modifying the master plan.

 Rajiv Kakaria, who heads the GK-I RWA, said, “We want DDA to hold discussions with RWAs regarding modifications to Master Plan of Delhi 2021. We have sought a joint meeting with DDA officials, the three municipal commissioners and Union urban development ministry under the chairmanship of the SC-appointed monitoring committee for transparent disclosure of all the issues.”
 
 “We should be given reasons for introducing the amendments, how it will impact the infrastructure, and how the government proposes to levy charges and utilise them,” he added.
 
 A 10-point joint resolution was passed by the participating groups and circulated among representatives of the RWAs. The resolution will now be sent to the monitoring committee, DDA, LG, corporations and Delhi government. The residents have sought two weeks for exhaustive discussion before any amendments are made to the master plan.
 
 The signatories include Anil Sood from CHETNA, Chetan Sharma from Confederation of NCR Residents’ Welfare Associations (CONRWA), Varinder Arora from Delhi Residents Forum, Rejimon CK from Dwarka Forum, BS Vohara of East Delhi RWA Joint Front, Saurabh Gandhi from United Residents of Delhi and RWAs of Rajinder Nagar, Ishwar Nagar and Greater Kailash, among others.
 
 The joint resolution raises several questions, including whether local bodies have conducted an audit or field survey to ascertain whether the conditions under which relaxations in MPD 2021 were granted have been implemented since 2006. This point has been highlighted by TOI in its reports.
 
 “Have any officers or a dedicated department been asked to oversee strict implementation of MPD 2021 and made accountable to Supreme Court. What is the implementation status of MPD? We wish to know the scientific methodology used for calculation of conversion charges for providing additional infrastructure necessitated due to extra FAR so that its burden doesn’t fall on the 1.5 crore citizens of Delhi by way of additional taxes,” the statement reads.
 
 Chetan Sharma said, “All stakeholders should be a part of the process. The master plan is like a bible for the city and we shouldn’t deviate from it due to political pressure.” Rejimon CK said this raises questions on the competency of DDA.
 
 
