PUNE: Several colleges under the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) have planned new   based on the current demands of the industry, but some stringent rules are delaying the process. 

 The university requires accreditation by the national body for the   to make applications for starting new courses. The issue will be taken up by college representatives at the senate meeting scheduled on Saturday.
 
 According to the rules, the college or institution needs to have National Assessment & Accreditation Council ( ) score to be eligible to start a new course or programme. While the process for accreditation takes a long time, Manohar Chaskar, principal of Prof. Ramkrishna More Arts, Commerce & Science College, said the time required from application to approval for starting new courses is equally time consuming.
 
 Chaskar said, "It takes at least one year to get the course or programme approved from the university because it has to undergo three important steps. We are demanding a relaxation in the NAAC rules as it would help in a speedy approval process for colleges and institutions."
 
 The university could give an in-principle approval for the new course with the condition that the course could be started only after NAAC accreditation, he added.
 
 "At present, the situation is such that colleges cannot proceed with the application without the NAAC accreditation which is a big hurdle for most of us," Chaskar said. 
 
 Assessment and accreditation from NAAC is broadly used for understanding the quality status of an institution. 
 
 The accreditation status indicates that a particular higher educational institutions like a college, a university, or any other recognised unit therein, meets the standards of quality as set by the accreditation agency. 
 
 It is in terms of performance, related to the educational processes and outcomes, covering the curriculum, teaching-learning, evaluation, faculty, research, infrastructure, learning resources, organisation, governance, financial well-being and student services. 
 
 Once the college or institution makes and application for starting new course, it is placed before the scrutiny committee, from there the application is forwarded to the joint director of education. 
 
 The joint director then processes the application to process it to the state education department and once their approval is sought, a government resolution (GR) is issued for starting of the new course. 
 
 The GR is then approved by the university after which the actual implementation begins. College have demanded to allow the processing of the application without any conditions in the first stage. The issue would be discussed at the Senate meeting.
 
 
