CHENNAI: At a time when private hospitals have been leaving patients and their families with lighter pockets, a Chennai-based company has launched a portal that helps people access affordable medical treatment with the click of a mouse or a swipe on a touchscreen. 

 The company,  , which launched the portal (www.medibazaar.com) in the city this week, primarily aims at integrating patients, hospitals, medical laboratories, scan centres, pharmacies and other peripheral medical services into a single unit at an affordable cost. Out-patients and elderly and invalid people seeking consultation at home can also get in touch with medical professionals through the portal. The company will also depute home nurses, doctors and physiotherapists to attend to patients at home. Change of wound dressings, catheters and integrated follow-up treatment will be part of the services. 
 
 The portal will be a gateway for cost-effective healthcare services. For instance an MRI scan, which cost around Rs 8,000 in other labs, will cost Rs 2,500 at Medibazaar.
 
 By logging on to the website, users can select the doctor or hospital that will be affordable to them and also book appointments with doctors and specialists. They can even seek second opinion from specialists and seek consultation online. Once they finalise the treatment, they can book rooms in hospitals and dates for surgeries and other medical procedure without stirring out of their bed at home. Availability of specialists and hospital facilities for surgeries and procedures can be found out online without any intermediaries and hence the entire process becomes hassle-free for the patients and their attendants. 
 
 Patients will be able to make an informed choice about the hospital and doctor they would like to opt for as the fees and cost of treatment would show up on the screen.
 
 Other salient features of the portal include maintenance of health records, which will be all online, and can be accessed from any part of the world.
 
 
