NAGPUR: The head of Nagpur University’s (NU) postgraduate law department   is facing a hefty fine or loss of one increment over her relative’s marriage ceremony held in breach of all norms and permissions at the Laxminarayan Institute of Technology (LIT) campus, which houses the sensitive exam section.

 On February 8, Bhalave had booked the hall belonging to   located on the LIT campus.
 
 The society president Rahul   has also been served show cause notice in the case. Kharabe had objected to the land use but couldn’t stop the Bhalaves from holding the function there.
 
 Loud music and DJ was played besides encroaching the NU land during the period the hall was booked in the name of Vijayata Bhalave. She had breached society’s norms as well as failed to seek prior permission for using the NU land.
 
 Following media reports, vice chancellor SP Kane had formed an inquiry panel led by deputy registrar (finance) Archana Bhoyar to fix responsibility over the mismanagement and recommend action.
 
 The VC had ordered the society to suspend all functions, including marriages at the hall, till further orders. The ban is yet to be lifted.
 
 Kane said, “The probe panel has recommended a hefty fine on Bhalave or denying her one increment. The decision would be taken by the management council when the matter is placed before it.”
 
 The VC added that the panel found that the hall was booked in the name of Bhalave but when society office bearers had objected to putting pandal on the adjacent land beside the DJ, her father who is former assistant registrar of university had come and taken all the responsibility. 
 
 Bhalave had booked the hall for February 8 at a paltry fee of Rs8,000. However, the function was eventually organized on an adjacent piece of land belonging to NU, and not the society. Her father too was the society member but this booking was not in his name.
 
 The audacity of Bhalave family had come as a surprise for not just the society office-bearers but also the top NU officials, who were not aware of the incident till it was reported in a section of media.
 
 The incident had taken place when the VC was not in city. Four days later, he had called for records and promised to punish the guilty.
 
 The society president Kharabe had reiterated that the said booking was done only for the hall which is owned by the society.
 
 
