NEW DELHI: The special investigation team probing the   paper leaks has detained around a dozen people including coaching centre owners and tutors for interrogation, police said on Thursday. While the cops have some suspects, a breakthrough has eluded them so far.

 Sources said the crime branch is trying to reverse-trace the chain of   messages containing the questions in an attempt to reach the source of the leaks. Some invigilators and CBSE insiders are also under the scanner. The cyber cell is likely to be roped in to crack the Whatsapp chain, a senior cop said.
 
 “The crime branch has conducted raids in more than 10 places across Delhi and NCR. So far we have questioned a few people including some owners of coaching centres and college students. A total of 18 students and five tutors have been questioned. The two SITs are also questioning some administrators of two WhatsApp groups. No arrests have been made so far,” special commissioner (crime) R P Upadhyay said on Thursday.
 
 Seven DU students were among those questioned. The probe has revealed that at least 24 students from different schools in outer and northeast Delhi had received the Class X Maths paper through a Whatsapp group, while the Class XII Economics paper was circulated among 10 students. These students will also be examined.
 
 Among other angles, police are probing if the papers were leaked from the centre where they were kept before being distributed. Papers are usually sent to the exam centre around an hour before the exam.
 
 The students have claimed that these papers were readily available on encrypted social media apps. Though officially crime branch denied coming across a money trail, but the probe had indicated that the papers were being sold for as little as Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000. Once money exchanged hands, exam papers were forwarded to students via WhatsApp. It became viral because students then forwarded it to others.
 
 Explaining how the leak unravelled, an officer said that on Friday, the CBSE had received a fax from an unknown source about the involvement of a coaching centre and two schools in leaking of exam papers. This was forwarded to the board’s regional office the next day. The regional office forwarded the complaint to an inspector in the crime branch.
 
 On Monday, the CBSE’s academic section received a packet containing answers of the Economics paper and four mobile numbers which could have received the question papers. One of numbers was that of Vicky, who owns a coaching centre in Uttam Nagar and has been teaching Maths and Commerce to students of Class X and XII. Vicky, 40, was called and questioned but was let off due to the lack of evidence. He claimed he too had received the question paper on WhatsApp and blamed his ‘rivals’ for dragging his name in the scandal.
 
 On Tuesday, the CBSE had gone ahead with the Maths exam despite knowing that the paper had been leaked. Later in the evening, the crime branch registered an FIR. The paper was found to have been in circulation in social media half an hour before the exam. A second FIR was filed 90 minutes after the test.
 
 
