BENGALURU: Kannada organizations that had called for a Bengaluru bandh on Sunday called off the protest on Friday, hours after the Karnataka high court restrained them from going ahead with their plans. 

 The high court also directed the state government and law enforcement agencies to take all steps to ensure that commerce and industry and life of the common man is not affected by the bandh.
 
 The bandh had been called to seek Prime Minister  's intervention to resolve the Mahadayi dispute. The protest was timed to coincide with Modi's visit to the city to addressing a   rally. This bandh was to follow a Karnataka bandh observed on January 25 on the same issue.
 
 "There cannot be any bandh. The apex court has already said that a bandh violates the fundamental rights of citizens and it's illegal as well as unconstitutional," a division bench headed by Acting Chief Justice H G Ramesh observed, citing the directions issued by the Supreme Court in various judgments, including in the   vs Tamil Nadu case (2009) and   of India vs Bharat Kumar (1998).
 
 "Therefore, we direct the state government and its officials, including the law enforcement agencies, to do all that is necessary to give effect to the aforesaid declaration. Further, the organizations which have called for the bandh are restrained from proceeding with the call for observing bandh on February 4," the order read.
 
 "We won't observe a bandh on February 4 as we respect the judiciary," Kannada activist  , who led various organizations that had called for the bandh, told mediapersons later in the evening.
 
 The court recorded the submission made by Additional Advocate General A S Ponnanna, appearing on behalf of the state, that the state would take all necessary steps to ensure that the bandh call will in no way affect the industry, commerce and the people.
 
 "Instead of the bandh, we'll observe Sunday as a Black Day. More than 50,000 of us will go to the BJP rally at Palace Grounds on Sunday and ask Prime Minister Narendra Modi for justice in the Mahadayi dispute," Vatal said, blaming BJP leaders for thwarting the bandh plan.
 
 The PIL filed in the high court on January 25 by Shraddha Parents Association, Bengaluru, sought to get the Karnataka bandh as well as Bengaluru bandh deemed unconstitutional as well as illegal.
 
 
 
 
 In the evening, Kannada activist Vatal Nagaraj, who led various organizations that had called for the bandh, told reporters: “We won’t observe a bandhon February 4 as we respectthejudiciary.” The court recorded the submission made by additional advocate general AS Ponnanna, appearing on behalf of the state, that the state would take steps to ensure the bandh will not affect industry, commerce or the people.
 
 “Instead of the bandh, we’ll observe Sunday as a Black Day. More than 50,000 of us will go to the BJP rally at Palace Groundson Sunday, and askPMModifor justice in the Mahadayi dispute,” Vatal said, blaming BJP leaders for thwarting the bandh plan.
 
 The PIL filed in the high court on January 25 by Shraddha Parents’ Association, Bengaluru, soughtto gettheKarnataka bandh as well as Bengaluru bandh deemed unconstitutional and illegal.
 
 The petitioner urged the court to direct Vatal Nagaraj to deposit Rs 500 crore as security to be disbursed as relief to those affected by the January 25 bandh. According to the petitioner, despite the apex court’s guidelines, political parties and pro-activist groups continue to call for bandhs or hartals. The petitioner added that in a developing country like India, bandhs and hartals cause revenue loss and affect kids’ studies.
 
