Nagpur: When farmers take their animals for grazing, they are hardly aware about the kind and quality of fodder their animals eat. For them, a veterinary hospital in Ladgaon village of Katol taluka has come up with a unique initiative called ‘fodder cafeteria’.  A fodder cafeteria is simply a display of several fodder varieties on a small patch of land, whose seeds can be taken to individuals farms and replicated. “About 80 per cent of the animals in our area are Gavrani, which can be reared through greens. Consumption of greens enable good quality of milk products. Planting green fodder in an acre of land can also reduce spending on animal feed and increase profit margin through its year-round production,” said Dr Ranu Kadu, dispensary in-charge and livestock development officer.  While the concept was first started at a vet dispensary in Wardha, it is the first such to implement the concept in Nagpur district. Dr Kadu and her team planted the grass in November 2015 in a 20x30sq ft area of land behind the dispensary, whose production was seen after sixty days. Today, apart from locals, people from Jabalpur, Balaghat, Ramtek and Narkhed have also taken saplings or seeds from here to plant at their farms.  The fodder varieties are of two types — appetite filling and leguminous. Leguminous fodder has protein which improves the health of the animal. All the varieties are perennial, when once sowed, can be harvested for at least four years. “As per our resources, we have helped farmers with seeds or stems of the fodder. We also give demonstrations to interested farmers. All of this is free of charge,” adds Dr Kadu. Zilla Parishad animal husbandry officer Dr Umesh Hirudkar says he plans to implement the concept in other dispensaries as well.  “We are urging farmers to reserve at least some part of their land for growing fodder. If compared, the manure, milk and fodder that will be produced on that land will be worth much more than a cash crop,” said Dr Kadu.  This can reduce spending by the farmer by almost fifty per cent, and ultimately, boost the dairy business. Dr Kadu brought two varieties of fodder during her trip to Anand, Gujarat. “Pak Chong, a variety of Thailand, is known for its high yielding capacity, whereas HBN 100 is also well tolerated and high yielding variety of Napier grass,” she adds.