BAREILLY: In order to avoid the government’s “unwanted interference” in madrassa management, the influential   seminary has instructed over 3,000 affiliated madrassas across the country not to accept government aid. Most of the expenses of these madrassas are met by donations from the community. Government aid is mainly needed for paying teachers' salaries. Now this component also will be met through community donations, according to the seminary.
 
  Among the eight major decisions taken in the Rabta-e-Madaris (general body meeting) on Monday, madrassas’ management have also been asked to keep their property records updated and develop cordial relations with non-Muslims, inviting them to madrassas for festivals and other celebrations.
  
  The working committee comprises 51 members including 10 from the Shura (executive body) of Darul Uloom, 10 senior ustads (teachers) and 31 representatives of affiliated madrassas.
  
  Speaking to TOI over the phone, Mohatmim (rector) of Darul Uloom, Abul Qasim Nomani, said that their stand had always been very clear about not accepting government aid, in any form, to run madrassas.
  
  “Once madrassas start to take government aid, they are bound to follow government guidelines meant for other schools. We have our own disciplinary codes, uniforms as well as syllabus to follow and don’t want the government interfering in these matters. We don’t want the government to ask us for details of daily attendance of students and teachers and other such things. We may be given guidelines on when to open or close the madrassas. So we asked all 3,000 madrassas not to accept government aid,” Nomani said.
  
    of   Waqf, a madrassa affiliated with the seminary said, “Darul Uloom has earned a unique identity among Muslims across the world. Any kind of interference is completely against the basic nature and principles on which Darul Uloom stands. It is a well-established fact that in extending financial aid to madrassas, the government starts interfering in those matters also which are deeply connected with religion.”
  
  During the working committee meeting, senior teachers of Darul Uloom expressed concern over a section of non-Muslims which had a wrong impression about madrassa education.
  
  “For better relations with people from other religions, it was decided that we will observe national festivals like Independence Day and Republic Day, inviting non-Muslims to our affiliated madrassas. We will also invite them for annual events and other important celebrations,” Nomani added.
  
  District minority welfare officer,  , said, “Almost 80% of madrassas’ funds are spent on teachers’ salaries. Once the institute becomes government-aided, salaries are paid by the government. Besides, we provide stationary, books, study material, uniforms, mid-day meals and other forms of aid, just as we offer to other government schools.”
