CHANDIGARH: Dismissed   constable Tej Bahadur Yadav, whose video on poor quality of food served to paramilitary jawans went viral on social media in January last year, has now claimed that the clip was uploaded on the Internet by his colleagues.

 In his plea to the   and   high court, Yadav sought directions to the BSF to set aside his dismissal order. Taking cognizance of his plea, Justice P B Bajanthri on Tuesday issued a notice to the Union home ministry, BSF director-general K K Sharma and the commandant of BSF’s 29 battalion in which Yadav had served. The matter will come up for next hearing on May 28.
 
 The petitioner’s counsel S P Yadav said the constable had shot a video on his cellphone to highlight the poor quality of food before his senior officers during the Sainik Sammelan (congregation of battalion).
 
 “However, the petitioner does not know how his colleagues uploaded the video on his Facebook account on January 8, 2017.”
 
 
 
 
 When the video went viral, the commandant was very angry and ordered him to delete the video. When the petitioner said that he did not know how to upload or delete the video from Facebook, the commandant ordered ASI Jai Chand to delete the video and ordered an inquiry,” the counsel said.
 
 Yadav, who is from   in Haryana, claimed in his petition that the commandant of his battalion,  , was inimical to him because he had raised the issue of poor quality and quantity of food provided to the troops and had briefed senior officers several times on the issue. He also alleged that Kumar had discriminated against him.
 
 Yadav was posted in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district when his video went viral. He said he had pointed out the issue of food quality to his immediate seniors — ASI Gurdeep Singh, ASI Tej Pal Singh and the mess commander, Ct U Vasudeva Rao — but no action was taken.
 
 Although Yadav was to get voluntary retirement from January 31, 2017 in view of his request submitted in November 2016, his retirement was cancelled and he was dismissed from service by the summary security force court.
 
