HYDERABAD: Admitting students in excess of the approved intake might cost the   of Pharmacy dearly as state   officials are now mulling cancelling the affiliation of the institute for the next academic year.

 Speaking to STOI, T Papi  , chairman,   ( ), on Saturday, said that they would initiate action against the management for putting the lives of 15 students in jeopardy.
 
 "In the name of minority college, the management of Mesco is playing with the lives of students from the same community. As of now, our main aim is to see that students are not at the receiving end and we will try our best to make sure that these students do not lose an academic year. But, in the forthcoming academic year, we will initiate stern action against the college. We will either reduce their intake or see if their affiliation can be cancelled," said Reddy.
 
 Squarely blaming the college for the recent fiasco, where 15 students were denied hall tickets, the TSCHE officials said that college was granted permission to admit only 72 students (42 under convener quota and 30 under management quota) and should have adhered to that number.
 
 "We are in touch with Osmania University officials on the issue. And our preliminary enquiry shows that's the college, initially, had no permission to admit any students. They then went to court and secured approval to admit 72 students. However, they admitted 87 students and the court is yet to give its verdict on the excess admissions," said an official adding that court may issue an order on Monday, regarding the issue.
 
 The varsity officials, on the other hand, said that management of Mesco College is yet to approach them.
 
 "The college has to approach and give us proper justification on why they admitted excess students. They are yet to so that and as of now only the students have approached us requesting us to accept their admission and issue hall tickets," said Ch Gopal Reddy, registrar,  .
 
 The students, meanwhile, approached the TSCHE and requested the officials to intervene in the matter and direct OU to issue hall tickets so that they can write the remaining exams. The semester exams for B Pharmacy students started on Tuesday. 
 
 
