NAGPUR: Every year in India, around 26.45% premature deaths (among people above 25 years) are due to   from thermal power plants and industries. While most of the coal-fired plants are violating air pollution standards thanks to the extension on the already-missed deadline given by the central government, the compliance of the standards by the currently operating and under-construction plants can actually avoid 1.24 lakh premature deaths annually. Also, 8.58 lakh premature deaths and 40% pollution levels in India can be reduced if mitigation measures are implemented. 

 
 
 
 This was revealed in the latest study by Louisiana State University (LSU) which pointed out that emission from thermal power plants is the largest single-point source of pollution in India. At 22.62%, the highest premature mortality due to toxic emissions from power units was found to be in Chhattisgarh — a state which is often called the country’s power hub, having the seventh-largest coal-fired power plant in the country (Korba Super Thermal Power Plant). 
 
 TOI has been reporting on how Indians will continue to suffer for next few years as the power plants have got an extension to comply with environmental norms. While new power plants are all set to come up in various parts the country, the study concludes that cancelling the construction of proposed coal-fired power plants can save 26,000 lives. 
 
 When it comes to premature mortality due to industrial air pollution, Delhi topped the list. The study attributes around 40% of premature deaths in the Capital to industrial sources. “Not just the polluting sources in Delhi, even the industrial units in neighbouring areas like Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh contribute to the pre-mature deaths in the capital. Similarly, the power units of Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand are affecting Chattisgarh,” said Sunil Dahiya, campaigner at  . The environmental group also contributed in the study.
 
 Based on a mathematical modelling, the study analysed 13 scenarios (see box) with current emissions in different sectors. “Emission inventory for various sectors were clubbed with meteorological parameters and were then used to predict the PM2.5 emissions from different sources and their concentrations at various geographies. The PM2.5 data was then clubbed with population data to estimate the health risk,” added Dahiya.
 
 As per the study, premature deaths associated with PM2.5 exposure are mainly due to cerebrovascular disease which takes away around 4.4 lakh lives every year. This is followed by ischemic heart disease which leads to approximately 4 lakh deaths and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease which causes 1.8 lakh pre-mature deaths. About 10,000 people die prematurely of lung cancer. The total number of pre-mature deaths due to the deadly PM.25 are 10.04 lakhs in the country.
 
 The study further discloses that Uttar Pradesh witnesses the highest number of premature mortality with 2.3 lakh. Bihar and West Bengal are next in line with 1.2 lakh and 1 lakh deaths, respectively. 
 
 The study substantiates that household air pollution continues to be a major threat to public health. Highest number of pre-mature deaths — 55.45% — are caused due to residential pollution. “A majority of households in India use solid fuels for cooking instead of gas and electricity,” the study states.
 
 As per the calculations, reducing the use of solid fuel in households by 50%, especially in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and the North-East can avoid 2.58 lakh deaths annually. During the study, concentrations of PM2.5 were found to be the highest in the   region, including northern and eastern India.
 
 Furthermore, if crop burning is completely abandoned, almost 55,000 premature deaths per year can be avoided. It also focuses on the air pollution caused by burning of municipal solid waste. “Assuming that waste burning is reduced by 80%, 46,000 lives can be saved across the country,” said Dahiya.
 
 He added that though India has formulated mitigation measures to avoid pollution, its time and target-bound implementation remains a big question mark. “The need of the hour is to implement all the policies systematically in a time-bound manner,” he said. 
 
 Professor Hongliang Zhang, the author of the study, said that major policy measures should include reducing emissions from thermal power plants, instituting strong emissions standards for industries and reducing solid fuel use in households. “Shifting to zigzag kilns in brickmaking and introducing stronger vehicular emissions standards is also needed,” he said.
 
 
