PUNE: The Supreme Court’s indefinite extension of the March 31 deadline to link   with bank accounts and mobile phones came as a relief to many but in the run up to the previous deadline several citizens were bombarded with messages from service providers regarding   in their names in Aadhaar and   cards.

 Many people had linked their PAN with Aadhaar for filing of income tax returns online and the process had gone off more or less smoothly. To date, over 6.5 crore PANs are linked with Aadhaar. Only after several months have people realised that Aadhaar and other details need to be linked exactly.
 
 
  
 For example, service providers have sent communications to clients in cases where the names appear in full in Aadhaar while only initials of the middle names appear in PAN.
 
 “Thank you for providing your Aadhaar information. We have authenticated your Aadhaar with   database and found mismatch in the name for PAN XXXXXX between Aadhaar database and Mutual Fund database, which has to match mandatorily. Hence we are unable to link your Aadhaar in any of the Folio(s) in the Mutual Fund(s) serviced by CAMS,” stated an email from the service agency.
 
 Even as the   is yet to decide on a batch of petitions challenging the constitutional validity of Aadhaar, it is mandatory to quote Aadhaar number to apply for any new financial service like buying a mutual fund or life insurance, among others. On Tuesday, the apex court indefinitely extended the March 31 deadline till the final outcome on Aadhaar’s validity was decided.
 
 For now, however, consumers can heave a sigh of relief after the SC’s Tuesday order. Not indefinitely though. Once the court is through with its hearing, there is a possibility that the linking target will loom large again.
 
 On November 27, 2017, a circular served by the authentication division of the UIDAI called for a perfect match of demographic details.
 
 “UIDAI at present provides for the facility of both exact match and partial match in demographic authentication to authentication user agencies…to remove any chances of wrongful identity verification using demographic authentication, it is hereby decided to discontinue the provision of partial matching,” UIDAI assistant director for authentication, Yashwant Kumar, wrote in his note.
 
 This has, however, confounded experts who think that there are ways to verify the authenticity of a person.
 
 “This is why they had taken details like biometric, iris and mobile numbers (for OTP verification). Aadhaar has to be smart to be able to distinguish between two identity documents,” asked an expert, who has studied Aadhaar from the beginning.
 
 
