JAISALMER: Four days after bodies of three teenagers-two girls and a boy-were found hanging from a tree in a   village, the local police on Monday ruled out rape and murder as alleged by the girls' families. Senior police officials said that post-mortem reports and circumstantial evidences suggested it was a case of suicides over a failed 'love affair' at a premature age. 

 Both the girls, who were cousins and belonged to Meghwal community, were into relationship with the same boy from a Sindhi-Muslim family of their village, the police said. The trigger point for the extreme step was that the families of the boy and the elder girl recently fixed their marriages with different persons, said police. The girl was to be married off on Akshaya Tritiya (April 18) to a boy from her community, while the Sindhi-Muslim boy had been engaged to a girl from his community.
 
 The two girls aged around 13 years and 12 years and the boy (Deshal Khan) aged about 17 years were found hanging from a tree at village Sarupe-ka-Tala under Binjrad police station of Barmer's Chohatan tehsil on April 13 morning. Father of one of the girls lodged a police complaint the same day, accusing the deceased boy and one of his minor friends of rape and murder.
 
 Deputy SP (Chohatan circle) Surendra Kumar Choudhary, however, told TOI on Monday, "The post-mortem reports say that all three died of hanging and there were no injury marks on their bodies. The girls were neither raped nor were they pregnant. Police have found only three sets of footprints in a radius of 1-1.5-km from the tree, suggesting that no fourth person was present at the crime scene."
 
 Choudhary added, "All three were in a 'love relationship' since past two years. Their families were aware of this relationship and had even called panchayat meetings several times to dissuade their children."
 
 Initially the boy and the elder girl got into relationship around two years ago, despite their tender ages, the police said. "Last year the elder girl jumped into a water tank to commit suicide when her family objected to the relationship. The family saved the girl then but did not file any police complaint," said Choudhary, adding that over a period of time the girl's cousin (uncle's daughter) too got into relationship with the same boy.
 
 According to the villagers, the three families once shared a strong bonding. The Meghwal girls, along with their elders, used to work on the agricultural fields of the Sindhi Muslim boy from the same village. Though he was from a financially well-off family, the boy was illiterate like the two girls. Police said the trio was influenced by movies, television and social media and used to spend time together for hours.
 
 
