CHENNAI: When a line of doctors rejected a heart with just 35% function for their patients, Ekaterina decided to take a chance on it for her eight-year-old son, Roman, who had an incurable heart condition.

 The case was fraught with complications — as a foreign national, Roman was eligible for a heart in India only if all other donors rejected it. “Other doctors rejected this heart because it was only 35% functional. The donor was an adult and the heart could be too big for this boy,” said Dr  , chief of the critical care unit at   “But we went ahead because we didn’t know when the next heart would come,” he said. 
  
 
 
 In the last four months, the child has not only had a heart transplant but also suffered three heart attacks and undergone angioplasty and stenting. 
 , mother and child packed their bags to head back to their hometown of Saransk in Russia. “I don’t know why I chose Chennai, but I’m glad I did,” said Ekaterina, a single unemployed mother who received financial support from the Russian government for the treatment.
 
 
 For the team of doctors and paramedics, watching them prepare to leave was “bliss”. Transplant surgeon   said the boy’s treatment and recovery was an “astonishing story”. 
  
 
 
 The boy was diagnosed with cardiomyopathy — which makes it hard for the heart to pump blood — and arrived at the hospital on 
 . “His heart was failing and we knew he needed a new one,” Dr Balakrishnan said. “Hearts can come to foreign patients only when no Indians take them. To add to this, his blood group is O+, which meant patients across blood groups had to reject the heart for him to get it,” he said.
 
 
 While waiting for a heart, Roman suffered his first cardiac arrest on 
 . Doctors massaged his heart for 45 minutes before opening his chest and connecting him to a heart pump or an extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) machine. The hospital flagged a “super ultra-emergency” on the waiting list.
 
 
 On 
 , the hospital received a call from Tamil Nadu State Transplant Authority about the heart that other doctors had rejected and decided to go ahead. On the surgery table, the donor suffered a massive cardiac arrest. Doctors were stunned for a few minutes. “But we decided to carry on. After 10 minutes of resuscitation, we transplanted the heart to the boy,” said Dr Balakrishnan. Deceased donor transplant is rare, but not uncommon. The heart is retrieved soon after death and transplanted.
 
 
 That night, Roman suffered a second cardiac arrest and had to be connected to the ECMO again. He was weaned off the machine on 
  and moved to a room. Just when doctors thought he was recovering, Roman suffered his third cardiac arrest on Feburary 15. Cardiologists found blocks in three major blood vessels. An angioplasty and coronary stenting fixed the problem, but he was back on the ECMO.
 
 
 Roman says the upside of spending the last few months in Chennai is that he’s picked up a bit of English. “It’s been a month and his recovery has been remarkable,” said Dr Rao as the eight-year-old shouted “yes” with a broad smile. 
 
