Thiruvananthapuram: The uncertainty over the fate of his missing life partner, Liga Skromane, seems to have adversely affected the mental state of  . The farmer from Dublin in Ireland reportedly trespassed into a luxury hotel at Vizhinjam in the intervening night of Thursday and Friday and created a ruckus claiming that his partner was being held captive inside. Following this, the Vizhinjam police registered a case against him after receiving a complaint from the hotel authorities. Jordan was later taken to Medical College Hospital where he was admitted. 

 According to the police, the alleged incident happened around 12.30am on Friday. He turned up at the hotel gate and wanted to get inside. He shouted at the security personnel that his lover was being held captive inside the hotel and hence he wanted to check the hotel. When the security personnel blocked him, it made way for a physical altercation. 
 
 The hotel authorities alleged in their complaint that Jordan was in an inebriated condition. He manhandled the security personnel and caused them injuries. The police took him to the Medical College Hospital, where he was admitted. 
 
 The hospital authorities confirmed that Jordan was suffering from a severe case of depression following which he was admitted to the hospital. Besides the mental ailment, the doctors are also treating him for the injuries he sustained in the altercation with the hotel security. 
 
 “His condition is stable and the injuries are not that serious. Nevertheless, the doctors subjected him for a scan to know whether there are internal injuries. We are awaiting the result,” said a senior doctor of the hospital. 
 
 Vizhinjam sub-inspector P Ratheesh said that sections of trespassing, threatening and causing damage to property through mischief were charged against Jordan. 
 
 “We registered a case against him because the hotel authorities approached us first with the complaint. There was a police party nearby, who witnessed the ruckus. However, if Jordan has any complaints against the hotel staff, he too can approach us,” the sub-inspector said. 
 
 
