NEW DELHI: E-commerce biggies trail their smaller rivals, when it comes to meeting the government's requirements on displaying maximum retail price (MRP) and other information of products to safeguard online shoppers from fakes and inflated prices. The Centre had made it mandatory for e-tailers to display key information, including  , expiry date and customer care details of products sold on their websites from January 1.

 
 However, there has not been any large-scale impact on platforms of leading e-tailers such as Amazon,   and Shop-Clues, while smaller companies such as BigBasket, Paytm Mall and   seem to have made significant progress in displaying parts of the required information. "We have managed to cover 70% of the products on our site," said Seshu Kumar Tirumala, head of buying at online grocer BigBasket.
 
 The amendments in Legal Metrology Rules (Packaged Commodities Rules, or PCR) were brought about in June 2017, after the consumer affairs ministry received complaints about information deficit while shopping online. Subsequently, companies were given six months to comply. Law firms said, due to representations from industries, the timeline has been extended twice and companies have time till end of the month to comply fully.
 
 "A huge inventory of old stock seems to be one of the reasons why some companies (including few e-commerce entities) are still lagging in terms of implementation of the amendments," said Stuti Galiya, counsel at Khaitan & Co. Galiya said the initial enforcement steps may only be investigational in nature for smooth implementation of the amendments. However, a senior official from the consumer affairs ministry told TOI that enforcement of legal metrology norms is a state issue. "Once there are complaints, we will take necessary action," he said. "States may be taking action at their own level. Only an online survey by LocalCircles has indicated that there is partial compliance by e-commerce companies."
 
 The said survey revealed 40% e-tailers were complying with declaration of MRP while about 31% were mentioning "best before use" on their websites and apps. While a Flipkart spokesperson did not respond to an emailed query from TOI, an   spokesperson said, "We have taken multiple steps to inform sellers on the changes in the legal metrology regulations. We are working with our sellers to enable them to comply with the changes." A ShopClues spokesperson, too, said the company has initiated the process for sellers to comply with the new rules.
 
 (With inputs from Dipak Dash)
 
