LUCKNOW: More than 22 years after she was attacked in the state guest house allegedly by SP members for withdrawing support to then   government, BSP chief Mayawati on Tuesday received unprecedented support from SP legislators in   over BJP MLA and cabinet minister Nand Gopal  's remark comparing her to 'Surpanakha'. 

 The support came during SP legislators' protest against Nandi, who in a recent campaign meet in Allahabad, had also called SP patriarch Mulayam as demon king 'Ravan' and SP chief   as 'Meghnaad'. Annoyed SP member legislators joined their BSP counterparts in Vidhan Parishad, where SP is in majority, and stormed into well of the House forcing its adjournment. 
 
 As soon as the question hour commenced, SP and BSP leaders started raising slogans against BJP, accusing it of letting its minister insult senior leaders of other parties.
 
 " Ye behudi sarkar hai...inke mantri doosri party ke netaon ke baare mein aise apshabd bolte hain aur koi kuchh nahi kehta... (This is an indecent government...its ministers use foul words against leaders of other parties and no one objects)," said leader of opposition in council, Ahmad Hasan, amid a huge uproar in the house. 
 
 When BSP's legislative party leader, Sunil Chittor, stood up along with other legislators to protest, SP members also joined them, thronged the well and staged a sit in, forcing chairman Ramesh Yadav to adjourn the house for 20 minutes. When the house assembled, SP and BSP members started raising slogans again. Eventually, the house was adjourned till March 12. 
 
 The joint protest by SP and BSP against Nandi's comments comes just two days after Mayawati announced support to SP candidates in   and Phulpur bypolls. 
 
 Referring to Nandi's comment earlier in the day, deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, who is also leader of the house in Vidhan Parishad, said that politicians should be careful in their choice of words. " Doosri party ke netaon ke baare mein boltey samay shuchita ka khayaal rakhnaa chaahiye...aisa Modiji aur Yogiji dono maante hain (Both Modiji and Yogiji believe that decency should be maintained while commenting on leaders of other parties)," he said. 
 
 
