LUDHIANA: The police, on Sunday, booked a   resident for impersonating as an IPS officer. 

 Even as  , 35, had been posing as a police officer for long, the Ludhiana cops found out his con game on Friday, when he went to the police commissionarate in uniform and with two guards. 
 
 “Claiming to be a 2015-batch IPS officer, Mann came to the police commissionarate to seek a police clearance certificate to go for a training programme. He then went to commissionarate’s licensing department for some work. Smelling a rat, the licensing department officials took up the matter with the senior officers,” said a cop. 
 
 The senior officers immediately sent a few cops to the spot who clicked his pictures. “He claimed to be a UP-cadre police officer. With his pictures and details, we contacted the officers concerned and found out that he was a fake. Before we could act, Mann had fled from there,” he added. 
 
 Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP-I)   said, “The police are on the lookout for the accused, who has been booked.” 
 
 Deputy commissioner of police   said, “Teams have been formed to trace him. The probe has been handed over to additional deputy commissioner of police (special branch)  .”
 
 An official said, “Mann has been playing the con game for the past more than a year. Years ago, he used to come to meet former commissioner of police Jatinder Singh Aulakh. He has links with many politicians, too. He would make senior   leaders call up cops to get his work done.”
 
 Another official said, “Mann went to commissioner of police’s office in uniform and with two guards on Friday. But at that time, the top cop was not there. Not just police department, the impersonator has been visiting different offices to get his work done. He had told his neighbours and acquaintances too that he was an IPS officer. When stopped at check-points, those known to Mann would call him up, seeking his help. Mann would phone the police station house officers directly introducing himself as an IPS officer.”
 
 A case has been registered under sections 170 (personating a public servant), 171 (wearing grab or carrying token used by public servant with fraudulent intent), 420 (cheating) of the IPC against the accused. 
 
 
