IMPHAL: Attending the third session of the 'Go to Village' mission at   in   district on Tuesday, Manipur chief minister   said changes should be always brought in from the grassroots level. 

 Biren said his government has always tried to reach out to the people and the 'Go to Village' mission is now ensuring that most of the government services are delivered to the doorsteps of the people. Villagers do not have to face the inconvenience of visiting government offices for availing benefits under different schemes or registering their grievances, he added.
 
 Over 25 different government departments, including agriculture, fishery, handloom and handicrafts, and education, opened their stalls at the camp.   also distributed benefits under different social security schemes to selected beneficiaries on the occasion. 
 
 Launched by the chief minister on May 1, the state-wide mission identifies eligible beneficiaries and ensures services under different developmental schemes reach them. The second edition of the programme was held at 52 villages across the state during which 68,000 registered for the camps and 38,000 grievances were resolved on the spot, Biren said.
 
 Appealing to the people to visit these camps for their maximum benefits, Biren said the mission will go a long way in ensuring a corruption-free society. 80,000 applications were received on the inaugural day of the 'Go to Village' mission, Biren said. A committee will be constituted to compile a ground report on the people's grievances and expectations, he added. 
 
 Pointing out that there are around 40,000 school dropouts in the state, the chief minister said under the newly-launched ' ' scheme, all expenses of students in government schools, like their admission and tuition fees, as well as expenses incurred for uniforms and textbooks, will be provided for by the state.
 
 Rs. 3.5 lakh will be allocated for construction of each toilet, Biren said, further adding that such toilets, especially for women, will be constructed near village ponds across the state. 
 
 
