GHAZIABAD: An   engineer kidnapped from Raj Nagar Extension on May 23 was rescued early on Thursday and his abductors arrested after a gunfight in which two of the accused were hit in the leg.

 
 
  
 
 According to the sequence of events pieced together by police, Rajeev Kumar was waiting at Raj Nagar Extension for a bus to go to Haridwar when three persons in a white Santro kidnapped him. They used Kumar’s mobile phone to send messages to his wife demanding Rs 15 lakh for his safe release. The three kidnappers have been identified as Sharad Sharma, who is from Ayodhya, Mahesh Mishra, a resident of Surat, and Rinku, who hails from Hapur. The trio had been living in a rented accommodation in Delhi’s Bohapur village.
 
 Two policemen — one each from the   and   police — and two of the three kidnappers were hit with bullets during the gunfight near Raj Nagar Extension around 3 am on Friday. All four were stated to be out of danger.
 
 Police said the gang was previously involved in several cases of kidnapping and robbery across Delhi NCR. It was one of these earlier cases that helped the police team rescue the engineer and arrest the kidnappers.
 
 According to police, Rajeev had hired a cab from his office in Noida Sector 126 to reach Raj Nagar Crossing on May 23. He was waiting for a bus to go to Haridwar — where he planned to celebrate his 35th birthday with his wife and two children — when he approached three persons in a white Santro parked nearby around 12.10am. The trio apparently offered to drop him to Haridwar for Rs 200 and overpowered him by injecting a sedative when he got into the car.
 
 When Rajeev did not reach Haridwar the next day and his phone remained switched off, his brother-in-law filed a missing person’s complaint at   police station. Around 10.50pm the same day, the engineer’s wife received a WhatsApp message from Rajeev’s number that asked her to deposit Rs 15 lakh in her husband’s account if she wanted to secure his release.
 
 Police said the trio had withdrawn Rs 54,000 using Rajeev’s ATM card soon after abducting him. Around 2pm on May 26, the kidnappers once again sent a message to Rajeev’s wife asking for the money to be deposited into his account. The family promptly deposited Rs 1 lakh, which was withdrawn by the kidnappers in several installments.
 
 The investigators had initially relied on   footage at the ATM kiosks that the kidnappers had visited to withdraw the money, but that did not help them as the three wore caps and covered their faces with cloth every time.
 
 It was during the course of the investigation that Ghaziabad police learnt about a similar kidnapping in Delhi’s Mayur Vihar in April this year, in which the victim, Pappu Khan, was released after his family paid the kidnappers Rs 2.3 lakh. The kidnappers had employed the same modus operandi of using the victim’s mobile phone to contact his family and ATM cards to withdraw the money from his bank accounts.
 
  Vaibhav Krishna said on Friday: “Since Rajeev was reported missing, as many as 15 teams of Ghaziabad police and Noida STF, which had in it additional SP (crime) Shahab Rasheed Khan, were pressed into action. The case was cracked after examining the earlier victim (Pappu Khan), besides using our own system of surveillance and informants.”
 
 The officer said Rajeev was rescued from a house in Prahlad Garhi village on Thursday night. He was found lying under a table with his hands and legs tied.
 
 “Following a tip-off on Thursday night, a joint team raided a house in Prahlad Garhi and rescued Rajeev, who was found lying under a table in a semi-conscious state and his hands and legs tied. Police also arrested Rinku, who was keeping watch on him at the one-room accommodation.
 
 “Rinku told us his two accomplices had gone to Mohan Nagar to withdraw some more money. A trap was laid and a white Santro car was seen coming towards us around 3am. Seeing a police team, they fled towards Raj Nagar Extension. The two accused were subsequently arrested following an exchange of fire,” Krishna said.
 
 The three kidnappers did not use their own mobile phones to avoid being traced, but relied on WhatsApp messages to contact the family.
 
