KOLKATA: It isn’t without reason that your building’s security personnel is asking for a raise. Neither is it surprising that several of them have suddenly lost their jobs. The post-GST regime, which levies security agencies 18% tax, and misgivings about a proposed Bill aimed to streamline this sector is not only pushing up costs but rendering several people jobless.

 One such victim is Shankar Porel, 42. He has been guarding a Tollygunge highrise for the last four-and-a-half-years and the building association paid Rs 6,000 per month to Porel’s agency. The agency owner, after deducting his margin, paid Porel Rs 5,500 per month. All transactions were made in cash to duck statutory benefits. Last month, the agency owner informed Porel that he was shutting shop.
 
 The private security industry, which employs nearly half-a-million people in Bengal and over a lakh in Kolkata is now worried. The   (CAPSI) and the   and Investigators (APDI) has repeatedly flagged this issue to the Centre and the state.
 
 The primary problems are two-fold, industry sources said. Earlier, this industry was charged a 14% service tax. However, this tax was based on the receivables. For example, if a security agency raised a bill for the guards employed in the preceding month only after it received the payment (which is delayed for two-to-three months), it had to pay the tax. Now, the 18%   must be paid upfront by the agency on a month-on-month basis. This is hurting the small players by pushing up costs.
 
 Secondly, it is unclear what should be taxed. Any bill raised by the security agency involves the salary component and the statutory taxes payable (roughly 14% for PF and another 4.7% for ESI). Added to this is a 8%- 10% profit margin.
 
 “When we are being taxed on the entire bill amount, we are paying taxes on reimbursements and the profit together. Reimbursements are payable immediately, so why should we be taxed for it?” questions Debajit Chaudhary, executive director, NIS Management Pvt Ltd.
 
 “We have been demanding that, for security agencies, GST should be made on reverse charge basis so that the service taker is made to pay GST and not the service providers. Our payments are delayed, but we make timely payment of salaries to our personnel. It is necessary as private security agencies work on a threemonth credit system and the current GST regime is hurting us financially. It is not possible for us to make upfront payment of GST. We cannot take this extra burden of 18%. Many agencies are already closing down due to this burden. If this continues, our sector will be in distress and lakhs will become jobless,” warns Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, secretary general, CAPSI, West Bengal.
 
 Pramod Lodge, founder of the Kolkata-based Spotlight  , explains that in a manpower-intensive industry the employability is high, but profit margins are nominal. “We work on a credit-system. To pay the 18% GST every month means we are paying it ourselves. This is in addition to the salaries and statutory benefits. If the issue isn’t resolved, we will face tough times ahead,” he says.
 
