TIRUNELVELI: In a novel method, grey water generated from nearly 350 houses in   village in Rajagopalaperi Panchayat, Keelapavoor Block, is treated in a low-cost reed bed filter and the several thousand litres of treated water generated from it are being used to irrigate fields in the area, which are deprived of rain and ground water.

 Like Adhisayapuram, Pottalpudhu in Kadayanallur block and Devanallur in Kalakkad block are among the nearly 15 villages and hamlets in the district that are making use of the system to use treated grey water for irrigation. The district administration has taken up the project at 101 places in the district (with more than 100 families a village) of which it has been completed in more than 50 places.
 
 “It is a low cost project completed at Rs 1.24 lakh including men mobilised through the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme and materials. The project was conceived with an idea of maintaining the environment clean by avoiding waste water generated from the kitchen, bathing and washing clothes from flowing on the streets and or stagnating,” collector Sandeep Nanduri said.
 
 He said that such unattended grey water turned out to be breeding grounds for mosquitoes and also posed other health hazards. Considering these issues the administration worked out the idea of treating and using such waters.
 
 The filters were built in two models – reed bed and vertical filter. Reed bed is a rectangular structure that is about one metre deep and has layers of blue metal, coal, sand and a reed bed (mostly korai grass). Vertical filters have these materials in a vertical structure. Grey water is diverted to this filter, from where treated water is collected in a tank, from where it is pumped to fields.
 
 Keelapavoor block engineer P Poochandu said that grey water treated in these filters was tested in government laboratories through the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board, agriculture and Tamil Nadu Water and Drainage Board and certified fit for use for agricultural purposes.
 
 Project director of the district rural development agency A Palani said that of the 101 grey water treatment units they have initiated in the district over the last seven months, a total of 55 have been completed and work is in progress in the remaining 46 units. “Coal and other filling material such as blue metal have need replacement only once in three to four years, when the colour of treated water changes,” he said.
 
 
