NAGPUR: Marking the occasion of World Sleep Day, a unique facility was inaugurated at GMC's Super Speciality Hospital on Friday Morning. The 'sleep lab', a part of the department of respiratory medicine, will now enable doctors to diagnose, classify and treat patients for sleep disorders. 

  statistics say 45% of the world population suffers from sleep disorders, according to head of respiratory medicine department Dr Sushant Meshram. "Due to lack of awareness, sleep disorders in most people remain undiagnosed and untreated. These are preventable and treatable," he said.
 
 The lab was inaugurated by  , who in his speech, encouraged other doctors to innovate. "People say this institution is aged and we need revolution. But what we need is innovation. We should disseminate benefit to patients and work towards capacity building in order to achieve a holistic approach," he said adding there is a link between sleep and behavioral disorders. 
 
 The polysomnography machine worth Rs25 lakh will monitor sleep architecture and entire physiology of an individual's heart by assessing heart rate, oxygen saturation, respiratory flow, air flow, body movements and body positioning through various channels. The facility will be run by Dr Meshram, who is a fellow of sleep medicine from  , and two associate professors. A fellowship programme in sleep medicine will also be introduced for post graduate students of respiratory, neurology and psychiatry discipline.
 
 Lack of sleep or poor quality sleep is known to have a significant negative impact on our health in the long and short terms. Poor quality sleep has a negative impact on our attention span, memory and learning. Sleep deprivation has been associated with significant health problems, such as obesity, diabetes, weakened immune systems and even some cancers. Lack of sleep is related to many psychological conditions such as depression, anxiety and psychosis, Meshram said.
 
 Sleep apnoea causes daytime sleepiness and fatigue and may lead to conditions such as hypertension, ischaemic heart disease, stroke, and diabetes. "This time last year, the Nobel prize was awarded to three scientists for their discovery of genes responsible for biological rhythm and internal clock of the body. At least 100 sleep disorders have been listed in international classification by American Academy of sleep medicine in 2014," said Meshram adding it is vital to maintain our sleep rhythm. Three elements of good quality sleep are duration, continuity and depth, he added.
 
 
