MUMBAI: Former revenue minister   on Thursday served a Rs 10-crore defamation notice on social worker Anjali Damania and lodged a criminal complaint against her at   police station in Jalgaon district for making false and defamatory statements against him.

 “For the last several months, Damania had been making false and baseless allegations against me. A section of my activists did file defamation cases against her. A week ago, she alleged that Khadse lacks courage and was using his supporters to harass her. In view of her statements, now I have served defamation notice and also initiated criminal proceedings against her,” Khadse told TOI.
 
 Damania, an   activist and former AAP leader, has levelled serious allegations of corruption and disproportionate assets against Khadse. She had taken up the MIDC land scam involving the senior   leader and his family members, following which the BJP leadership had sacked him from the cabinet. Damania had also lodged a complaint with the Anti-Corruption Bureau, following which Khadse’s statement on his assets and properties was recorded by the ACB last week.
 
 Khadse urged the police to take note of the statement ma- de by social worker   Inamdar, who had on April 11, 2014, claimed that she was asked by Damania to submit documents and cash to the former BJP minister (Khadse), so that she can trap him. “Damania was luring Inamdar to trap me. Inamdar did not succumb to her and instead, she declared the entire conspiracy to trap me before the media,” said Khadse.
 
 When TOI contacted Damania, she said though she had submitted “cracking” evidence against Khadse to the ACB, it is proving so difficult to take on corrupt politicians. “I personally called on chief minister   to demand narco test on both Eknath Khadse and Kalpana Inamdar. The FIR lodged by Khadse on Thursday is false and fabricated. I am surprised how the police registered the case. I am being mentally tortured and harassed, Khadse passed very derogatory remarks against me,” she added.
 
