The man-animal conflict in Bhopal, took a wild turn on Sunday. The bear that strayed into Karond locality, injured many. TOI talks to them to know their tales of horror.

 
  
 
 
 
 
 Sugwati Yadav, 26, a resident of Nigam Colony on Vidisha Road was going to work along with her 10-year-old son Arpit in Chitrakut. She said, “While we were walking, two dogs came running towards us. We ignored. At the same time, a giant bear ran in our direction. We ran away but it attacked my hand. I fell on the ground and the bear started attacking me on my back. Not caring for his life, my son Arpit started pelting stones at the bear, forcing the hairy beast to run.”
 
 
 
 
 Pyare Lal Kushwaha, 60, a farmer from Dwarka Nagar, and his wife were busy on their farm. His wife said, “While he was cutting crop, the bear entered the farm. It pounced on my husband from behind and injured his head. Realising it would not release him, I picked a stick and tried to beat the bear. But the animal followed me, I ran towards a room and locked it from inside. The bear tried to enter the room, but a boy hurled stones at it and it ran away. Doctors at a Karond hospital say his condition is serious and he has deep head injuries.
 
 
 
 
 Champa Jain, 62, a resident of Shabri Nagarsaid, “I was returning home along with my elder son when a bear lunged at me, taking us down on the road. The bear attacked on my stomach and wrist with his claws. I was lucky that some people reached spot. They freed us by beating the bear with sticks.” Champa sustained injuries on her stomach and right hand. The elderly woman was taken to a private hospital from where she was shifted to Hamidia hospital, and is undergoing treatment.
 
 
 
 
 Rajendra Prasad, 36, a resident of Rusalli Kheri village near Shabri Nagar, said, “I had gone with forest guards to help them locate the bear. Since it was a wheat farm, we could not see the bear. Suddenly, the animal was standing near me and attacked me on my left leg, due to which I sustained a fracture. Villagers attacked the bear with sticks after it ran away”
 
 Rajendra Prasad sustained a major fracture in his left leg and is being treated in a private hospital at Karond.
 
 
 
 
 Kratika Rajput, 7, a resident of Shabri Nagar said, “I heard someone shouting that bear had entered the area. I went outside to see it, when suddenly it attacked me from behind. My father then came and hit the bear with a stick. My aunt pulled me inside the house and closed the door. Even after that, the bear kept banging the door.” As per doctor, Kratika sustained injuries on her back and given three stitches and is undergoing treatment at a Karond hospital.
 
 
 
 
 Dhanu Lal Parte, 20, a native of Betul, who works as a labourer in Karond, shudders to think what he went through. He said, “As it was my sister’s engagement in Betul on Monday, I was getting ready to board a train. When I came out, I saw a bear running towards me. It grabbed me and attacked on my head, wrist and legs. I thought I would die but some dogs came and attacked the animal. I was lucky that some passers-by reached. I haven’t informed my family as they would get worried.” He was taken to a hospital where he was given 20 stitches.
 
 
 
