GREATER NOIDA: A day after   executive Tania Khanna died when her car fell into a drain near Sector 85 roundabout, senior officials from Noida Authority and police inspected the accident spot. 

 The   lights on seven poles, which were earlier non-functional, were also  . However, no fencing was done around the drain where the accident took place.
 
 The accident occurred near the Fresco Chowk where a tall floodlight stands. The crossing is a junction for Sector 85, Sector 93, Sector 137 and Sector 90. People have also moved into societies like Purvanchal Royal Park, Paramount Floraville, Supertech Ecociti, Logix Blossom County, Paras Tierea, etc. Bhutani Group is also developing Alphantum in the neighbourhood.
 
 Sanjana, a resident of Purvanchal Royal Park, Sector 137, said the Noida Authority and district administration should improve safety measures. “There is a pole for floodlights at the Fresco Chowk where the accident took place. The lights function only occasionally. The area is still developing and a number of housing projects have come up. However, there is lack of police presence and patrolling,” she said.
 
 Tania Khanna’s Hyundai Verna fell into a 10-feet deep open drain as she failed to negotiate a turn at the roundabout at 1.30 am on Wednesday. The uncovered drain, 10 X 8 feet in depth and width, was filled with 5-feet water. There was also a wooden bridge over the drain, which was damaged in the accident. Basant, owner of Om Sai Nursery, repaired the wooden bridge and resumed his work on Thursday.
 
 “The electricity department officials came in the morning and fixed street lights on some poles. They also questioned me about the sequence of incident,” he said.
 
 Vimlesh Sharma, president, Sector 108 RWA, said that drainage system is a very serious issue in Noida. 
 
 “If the law does not permit to cover the drains, they should be fenced properly to ensure that people do not throw garbage inside. The drains should also be cleaned in time as the water overflows in monsoon and floods homes in neighbourhood,” she said. R K Mishra, additional CEO, Noida Authority, said all safety measures will be taken in this regard.
 
 
