CHANDIGARH: The   and Haryana high court on Friday disposed of a petition that had sought directions to restrain   from dealing with Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) affairs, after it was informed that he has resigned from the post of power minister.

 When the matter came up for hearing on Friday before the HC, an affidavit on behalf of Rana Gurjit was filed stating that he “has sold all his shares in Rana Sugars Limited on May 18, 2017 and intimation regarding this was also sent to the stock exchange”.
 
 He further stated: “In view of the code of conduct for ministers prescribed by the ministry of home affairs, government of India, the deponent has divested himself of all shares in Rana Sugars Limited. He further added that “in any case the deponent has resigned as the power and irrigation minister, government of Punjab and the resignation of the deponent has now been accepted.”
 
 Hearing this, the petition was disposed of for being infructuous.
 
 The matter had reached the HC in the wake of a PIL filed by advocate H C Arora. In its petition, filed in October 2017, the petitioner had prayed that Rana Gurjit be restrained from dealing with affairs of the PSPCL pertaining to determination of rates for purchase of power from private producers by the PSPCL, and in matters pertaining to decision making for shutting down government thermal plants in Bathinda, Ropar and Rajpura.
 
 The petitioner had alleged that Rana Gurjit and his wife, Rana Rajbans Kaur are majority shareholders in  , which is a company producing power. It was stated that the company has signed two agreements for sale of power to PSPCL. One agreement is of December 4, 2012 and the other is of May 4, 2005, each for a period of 12 years, for sale of power to PSPCL.
 
 “The Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission, which determines power tariff, is bound by the policy decisions of the state government. Thus, Rana Gurjit Singh has conflicting interest, as an individual and as a cabinet minister. Such a person should not have been given the portfolio as power minister,” the petitioner had alleged.
 
 
