The city police, in one lucky raid reminiscent of the celebrated arrest by US law enforcement officers of more than 60 mafia gang bosses in a raid in   near New York in 1957, apprehended more than six dozen criminals celebrating their boss’ birthday near Mangadu early on Wednesday.

 Senior police officers including commissioner A K   took just 30 minutes to set ‘Operation Birthday’ into action, on information from ‘Pallu’ Madhan, a long-time sidekick of gang leader P Binu, 45, before assigning more than 60 policemen and officers to surround and raid a truck stop, ‘Velu Lorry Shed’, where the suspects had gathered to celebrate the gangster’s birthday, an investigating officer said. Chennai joint commissioner of police Santhosh Kumar planned the raid, commissioner Viswanathan said.
 
 “The police teams got in place between 7pm and 11.30pm on Tuesday, and had surrounded the spot from all sides so no one could get away,” he said. “We had by 10pm confirmed the suspicious movement of a large number of vehicles in the otherwise desolate spot near Malayambakkam village and deputy commissioner of police, Ambattur, S  , leading the operation, kept the police chief constantly posted between 11pm and 12.30am, till just before the raid.”
  
  
 Mangadu police inspector Charles contacted leaders in Malayambakkam village and enlisted them to help prevent the suspects from escaping, even as another police team led by an assistant commissioner of police used boats or swam across Chembarambakkam Lake to maintain surveillance from its banks.
 
 “When we barged into their party uninvited at 12.35am, the 200 men present made a desperate attempt to escape,” the officer said. “We arrested at least 40 suspects on the spot at gunpoint and fanned out after the others.” By the time they were done, around 9am on Wednesday, the police had rounded up 100 men. They arrested 76 with lengthy criminal records and let off the rest with a warning. “We collected a great deal of evidence against the arrested gangsters during the raid, not to mention images of Binu cutting the cake with a chopper, which several of the arrested suspects photographed on their cellphones,” he said.
 
 “Binu successfully evaded arrest for a year after appearing in court in a murder trial,” the officer said. “We have booked cases against the 76 arrested men under CrPC Section 151 (arrest to prevent offences) and 7 (1) (a) of the Criminal Law Amendment Act, 1932 (whoever [a] obstructs or uses violence with intent to cause any person to abstain from doing or to do any act which such person has a right to do or to abstain from doing).”
 
 Police have launched a search for the owner of Velu Lorry Shed, who has gone on the run, he said.
 
 
