GURUGRAM: Nearly 800   in Haryana, including 100 in the city, will remain closed on Tuesday to protest against harassment by the administration’s school safety committee, and to demand safety measures for school management members, principals, staff and students. 

 The decision was taken by the association of private schools in the state after the principal of  ,  , was shot dead by a Class XII student on January 20. The association has also questioned safety inspections which are only being conducted in private schools. Private school authorities feel that instead of taking steps to ensure safety of teachers and principals in campuses, the administration is trying to attack them.
 
 Blue Bells Model, Shri Ram, Amity, Shiv Nadar, Heritage, Shalom Hills International, Ridge Valley, Bal Bharti Public and other prominent schools in Gurugram will take part in the protest.
 
 Colonel Pratap Singh, senior vice-president of Haryana Progressive School’s Conference (HPSC), Gurugram, and chairman, Colonel’s Central Academy (CCA school), said, “We have decided that schools will stay closed on Tuesday to protest against the lack of safety and security of school management members, principals, staff and students, which was recently highlighted in the brutal killing of   (62), principal of Swami Vivekanand Public School in Yamunanagar, by a student who was reportedly outraged by the principal’s decision to expel him on disciplinary grounds.” 
 
 The association is also preparing a memorandum of demands to be sent to the chief minister through the deputy commissioner. 
 
 HPSC (Guugram) secretary and Sharda International School vice-chairman, Dipin Rao, said, “We have received repeated threats of arrests, FIRs, de-recognition and takeovers from the regulators. We are, therefore, advocating regulation for safety of the teaching fraternity to protect them against random arrests. I hope the administration understands that security of our staff is important.”
 
 HPSC members have alleged the school safety committee is targeting them for harassment. “The safety committee is auditing only private schools. What about government schools? Also, why have they included cops in the committee? We are being treated like criminals,” said Colonel Singh.
 
 Rajiv Kumar, another member of HPSC, Gurugram, and manager, Lions Public school, said, “We are law abiding citizens of this country and no FIR should be lodged against school management, principal or staff until inquiry into a case is complete. If we are found guilty, the administration can take any step against us. However, people assembling and shouting slogans should not put the administration under pressure to lodge an FIR without a formal inquiry. Also, I want to ask the state government whether all rules apply only for us? What about government schools?
 
 
