Actor   who seems to have firmed up his political career by launching his party Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM), is building it from scratch. In an interview with TOI, he tells how the political journey for him and his fans began three decades ago with social service.

 
 It started 30 years ago. I converted my fan clubs into a welfare association. A fan club usually has a president; the man, who is at the centre of adulation, has no post except being the idol fans worship. I changed that. The first year was an uphill task. People wanted me to immediately enter politics. Then they realised that I was more focused on doing social service. 
 
 
 
 
 That’s because we were not in politics then. Why we went further incognito was because for the past 17 years we have been having trouble with the government (AIADMK) which did not want us to get famous through such activities. Sometimes, we were forced to do smaller campaigns so they don’t attract attention. We were chewing into their territory and they were worried about that. My entry into politics is not to get back at anyone. Somebody had to do the cleaning. I had set my mind on it.
 
 
 We were among the first to start a huge blood bank and blood donation campaign. Nearly 25 to 30 years ago, we had donated nearly one lakh pairs of eyes. We slowly graduated to organ donation and finally I donated my whole body. We created a trust called ‘Petraalthaan Pillaiya’ which was for the children of HIV positive people. Many of these children are professionals now.
 
 
 
 
 My fan base is a small hardcore group of about 10 lakh members. We kept the number low because we did not want any Trojan horses in here. They are the core team that will go into the streets and work. They are present in every district and taluk. But, that won’t do when you are a party. Now, we are finding like-minded partners, who are not merely fans, but fans of change.
 
 
 
 
 Yes. Every vertical has various experts whom we constantly talk to — on agriculture, industries — and get feedback. We also have diaspora Indians including a group of people in Harvard helping us.
 
 
 
 Welfare of the people and all that others (political parties) promised will be followed up with action by us. We are not here to make money, but to make the change. That is the street-level logic that everyone will understand. That is why there is a crowd where I go. People like the proximity and accessibility. Our slogan is: Tomorrow is ours, can I follow you, can you take me there?
 
 
