TRICHY: Students from government schools in central region out perform their counter parts in government-aided schools, if we go by the National Achievement Survey 2017 of the National Council for Technical Education (NCERT).

 While most of the government-aided schools are better equipped than government schools for relatively better performance, the trend was found reversed only in   district. The survey was carried out in six districts-Trichy, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinnam, Perambalur,   and Pudukkottai- in the central region on November 12 last year.
 
 While the survey was carried out among the students of class III, V and VIII, the performance of government school students in Trichy district in the primary level was better than that of the middle level aided schools. Students of aided schools were found slightly better in science and mathematics subjects than class VIII students of government schools.
 
 The average performance of government schools students of class III in environmental sciences was 58.02 per cent which is better than the overall average performance (57.12 per cent) of students of class III put together across gender, area, management and social group. The average performance of students in the government-aided school was 55.99 per cent.
 
 While aided school students in Karur outperform their counterparts in government schools in almost all subjects, only the students of class III were trailing in mathematics and language subjects from the government school children.
 
 Performance of government schools students of class III and V in mathematics was better than the aided schools students in   and Thanjavur districts. But rest in the districts including Nagapattinnam, Perambalur and Thiruvarur districts, aided school students outperformed government school children.
 
 However, senior officials from the school education department say that primary focus of government schools is to help the student pass their exam as they come from rural and poor background, unlike government-aided schools. Despite this, students in Trichy could challenge students in aided schools, where majority of the parents are educated to help them at home to increase academic performance. 
 
 
