JAIPUR: The gangs of Mewat have always troubled cops, but none could rival Islamuddin (45) in ruthlessness and deception.

 Wanted by more than 12 states in over 50 cases ranging from kidnapping, extortion, rape, murder, he was finally arrested by joint teams of Tamil Nadu police and Jaipur crime branch when he was visiting a house to meet his love interest in Mansarover on Thursday.
 
 A resident of Punahana in Haryana, the accused used to travel in flights to visit cities before committing crimes there with his gang members. Deputy Commissioner of police, (crime) Vikas Pathak said the accused was arrested with Rs 3 lakh in cash, firearm and fake identity cards. “He led his gang to loot ATMs and steal cars in Goa, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Gujrat etc.
 
 Islamuddin and his gang used to rob luxury cars from national highways at gunpoint and used them to uproot ATMs. Eight of his gang-members were nabbed by Tamil Nadu police a few months ago after which the accused came on the police’s radar. “The Coimbatore police had come to Jaipur and shared their information with us after which he was arrested in Mansarover,” Pathak said.
 
 On June 6, 2016, the accused and his gang members robbed a car from an inspector of Haryana police in Gurgaon. They kidnapped him and robbed him of cash and ATM card. They dumped the cop near Mathura. The gang targeted trucks transporting copper wires from warehouses. “He made a fortune by selling these copper wires in black market. But her later switched to ATM burglary,” the official said, adding that they used to loot cars and its owner and dumped them at secluded places.
 
 He led his gang to uproot over two dozen ATMs in Madurai, Coimbatore, Goa, Kerela and Maharasthra. “He is a big catch because he had been wanted in so many cases of rape, loot, extortion and murder,” Pathak said.
 
 The police said that the accused’s history sheet is filled with almost all serious offences that could be found in Indian penal code IPC. “He never hesitated in opening fire at anyone, that made him such a terrifying criminal,” an official said. The Tamil Nadu police had been tacking him for past several months, they finally located him in Jaipur with the help of surveillance.
 
 
