Jaipur: Annoyed by absenteeism, city mayor Ashok Lahoti on Monday issued directions that no Jaipur Municipal Corporation ( ) employee can leave headquarters without taking permission from the department head. 

 Moreover, before leaving the headquarters, the employees will have to show the slip at the entry gate which would be signed by the head . The guard will maintain a record and note the timing of the employee when they would re-enter the headquarters again. 
 
 The directions were issued as majority of employees are away from their seats and do not come to office after lunch break. Also, many remain absent claiming that they are on field duty. 
 
 Though the directions have been issued by the mayor, many employees questioned about the feasibility . A JMC official source said, “ There are two- three gates to enter the JMC building. It would be difficult to check the movement. Also, at the entry gate, there are home guards deployed, it would be difficult for them to ask the officials of senior rank to follow the new rules.”
 
 Sources said the new system will hamper the functioning of the employees. “ If head of the department is busy or absent, it would cause delay if employees want to go on a field visit. The new system will unnecessary waste the time of employees.” 
 
 Having failed to ensure full staff attendance over many years, the JMC had earlier installed biometric attendance machines across its zonal offices and its head office at Lal Kothi in 2011.
 
 Following this, officials reportedly came to office on time. However, as administration failed to upkeep and maintain the machines, the officials again started coming late to office. Now, there is no improvement in the JMC’s functioning as it is difficult for administration to detect late comers. 
 
 “In 2011, after the biometric system was put in place at the JMC's head office at Lal Kothi, all employees were asked to record attendance twice a day, including the CEO, deputy mayor's staff and all zonal commissioners. This had improved the system,” a source said.
 
 
