MOHALI: The series of   in the past one week has instilled fear amongst the residents of housing societies in   area of  . The impact has been such that residents are now mulling over leaving their houses for safer places.

 
  
 Ananta Homes, Chandigarh Enclave, Aero Homes, General Enclave and Savitri Green part II—all located on Ghazipur road in Zirakpur— are the most targeted societies in the area. 
 
 On Sunday, two armed dacoits forcibly entered four houses in Ananta Homes housing society and stole gold, silver jewellery and cash to the tune of Rs 2.5 to Rs 3 lakh. Rohit Kumar, one of the victims, alleged that the dacoits also pointed a pistol and threatened to kill him. Even after 30 hours of the incident, police are still clueless.
 
 Many residents are now in fix whether to continue staying in Ghazipur area or sell the property and shift to some safer place. The residents of the area now believe that the deteriorating law and order has completely jeopardized the sense of security among the residents of Zirakpur.
 
 Ananta Homes president Jyoti Sidana said, “We will be holding a peaceful candle march tomorrow from Ghazipur road till Zirakpur police station against the deteriorating law and order situation which hopefully will compel the police to take swift action in this regard.”
 
 Residents alleged that they have never seen PCR patrolling in their area and neither has there been any data collection on the number of senior citizens, single women and tenants living in the housing societies. 
 
 Senior superintendent of police Kuldeep Singh Chahal said, “We have already increased the fleet of PCR vans by adding five to six more vehicles. ASP Zirakpur has also been directed to hold meetings with office bearers of various housing societies to chalk out a plan of action. In the recent incident it has been observed that the thieves easily entered the housing society without any questioning by the security guard whereas every unknown person must be stopped and questioned at the entry gate.”
 
 He added, “Residents need to take certain steps too to ensure their safety as it is not possible for police to be deployed at every nook and corner. “Residents must remain vigilant and keep an eye on the presence of an outsider and also question them if found suspicious,” said SSP.
 
 Residents, on the other hand, are of the view that police are always beating around the bush. Krishan Kumar, a resident of Ananta Homes, said, “We were lucky that our son escaped unhurt. Dacoits could have also shot at him.”
 
 
