CHENNAI: Imagine a diminutive  , with a big fist, as a ‘supersleuth’ taking on a terrorist gang. Action King Kapil, Superman Sachin, Batman Dhoni, Ironman Kohli, Gayle the Hulk cartoons and illustrations of legendary cricketers have always appealed to youngsters across generations.

 Autobiographies of legendary sportsmen are nothing new, but in recent times cricket comic series have captured the imagination of sports lovers and cricketers themselves. With a portion of his autobiography, ‘Playing It My Way’, to be released as a comic, Tendulkar will soon make his debut in the toon world.
 
 And   is the latest addition to the list of comic heroes. Dindigul-based K S Divakar, 23, has come up with a comic book ‘The Wall’, to be launched on Thursday (January 11) at www.sportwalk.com, when the legendary batsman and current India U19 coach turns 45. The comic will feature 15 important incidents in Dravid’s life and career.
 
 Divakar, a die-hard Dravid fan, believes telling sports stories through visuals make it more appealing to children. “When we first started our blog, we wanted to write articles and have a cartoon based on it. We received a lot of appreciation, so when I started my website, Sportwalk, I wanted to do something unique. That’s how we came up with the concept and the official   helped gather information,” says Divakar who worked with designer Adheedhan and writer   on ‘The Wall’.
 
 Even budding cricketers get motivated when they see their role models as superheroes. Tamil Nadu wicket-keeper S Lokeshwar, who earned appreciation from coach Dravid during his stint with the India U-19 team last year, is eager to read the comic book.
 
 “Dravid is jovial and interacts a lot with youngsters. A lot of us look up to him for inspiration. I’m eager to read the comic book on him and what it is like,” says 19-year-old Lokeshwar.
 
 With Gen-Next well-versed with the online medium, Divakar believes comics should be created in such a way thet they connecs with the readers on every platform.
 
 
