CHENNAI: The stalled child welfare and juvenile activities in   is all set to resume, as the Madras high court vacated a stay on appointment of members to district juvenile justice boards. While green-signalling the government to proceed with the appointments, a division bench of the court made it clear that they should be made as per Model Rules Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015. 

 While the guidelines of   (Care and Protection of Children) Rules, 2001 mandate appointments be made by principal district and sessions judge along with the district collector and commissioner of police or district superintendent of police concerned, the rules notified by the Centre in 2016 give the power to the high court.
 
 A division bench of Justice Huluvadi G Ramesh and   passed orders ending the year-long uncertainty over these two child welfare bodies. 
 
 It was S Srinivasa Raghavan who moved the court seeking to restrain the government from appointing new members to district juvenile justice boards without constituting selection committee as mandated under the new set of guidelines.
 
 Admitting the plea, the bench on April 6, 2017 restrained the government from appointing member to the boards. When the plea came up for hearing recently, the additional advocate general submitted that the existing members' tenure came to an end in 2015 itself, and the new member selection process is over. 
 
 "Though the appointment process is based on the old rules, there is a saving clause that whatever the action done about the appointment would be saved," government argued, and requested the court to vacate the interim order and permit the authorities to proceed with the appointments.
 
 However, the bench said: "It appears that the appointment process has not been completed and in the meanwhile the new rules came into effect in 2017. Therefore, the appointment must be proceeded only based on the new rules in consonance with the model rules of the central government. The interim injunction stands vacated and the government is directed to complete the appointment process within four months," the court said.
 
 It is not just the appointment of JJB members that got stuck in the Iitigation. Cases were also piling before the   whose tenure ended in 2015 along with the JJBs. Several members have either resigned or hold proceedings based on their convenience.
 
 According to the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, the CWC should have five members, including the chairperson.
 
 
