BELAGAVI: It was in August 2016 that   came upon a pitiable sight. A line of elderly men and women were waiting on one side of the   near Umarani village to cross the road and head to the field to relieve themselves. Without a second thought, she went ahead and met some of the villagers and the panchayat development officer to begin a campaign for toilets in homes.

 Kadam , who pledged to make Umarani   (ODF), is now just 100 toilets short of her target. The village in Chikkodi taluk, with a population of 4,500, has 800 toilets and Kadam, a second-year BA student, is a village champion of sorts.
 
 Back in 2016, the village, barely 5km from Chikkodi, had toilets in less than 20% of houses. The gram panchayat was ready to provide funds under the   to build toilets, but the families were not. Most of them had a mental block to   in their homes, adjacent to the gods they worshipped. They preferred to go to the open fields on the outskirts of the village.
 
 Kadam, 28, was forced to quit studies before her marriage but soon after, she enrolled at the AAPatil Women’s Degree College in Chikkodi for graduation. Once she decided to get toilets built at Umarani, she gathered 25 of her classmates and also spoke to her lecturers, Visakha Chitare and Jayashri Nagarale. With help and guidance from the LEAD foundation, they began to work in the village.
 
 After collecting data on the families, Kadam paid 10-15 visits to convince them to build toilets in their homes. After repeated visits, many of them came around. Kadam collected identity documents from the families and applied at the panchayat office on their behalf, seeking funds to build toilets. As many of the families got assistance of Rs 12,500 to Rs15,000, other villagers followed suit. For her work, Kadam was given the ‘Best Leader 2018’ award at the 8th Yuva Summit held recently at Hubballi.
 
 “It was difficult to convince the villagers. I used to visit the village after college hours as I was distressed about the troubles they faced due to lack of toilets,” Kadam toldTOI. “There was a direct link to increasing rape cases, incidents of snakebite and filth polluting their living environment,” she said, adding the taluk panchayat officer had approached her to help create awareness in six more villages. “I will start work in the other villages once exams are over,” she said.
 
