 is one thing both Indians and Australians are crazy about. So naturally, there have been some memorable encounters between the two countries on the cricket field over the years. However, the cricket game that took place on the lawns of the   recently was rather special, as it featured members of the High Commissions of  , UK, New Zealand, and Canada on one side, and the best visually challenged Indian cricketers facing them. Organised by   Trust for the Disabled, in association with the  , the exhibition match was part of Australian High Commission’s ‘Development for All’ campaign, which aims at promoting inclusion in all fields like sports and education.

  
  Ajay Reddy, captain, Indian men’s blind cricket team
 
 The six-over game was played under the blind cricket rules and saw the Indian men’s blind cricket team – who were recently crowned world champions for the second time in a row – take on the diplomats, who all wore special blindfold and glasses to level the playing field. The   were all given runners to compensate for their lack of training while playing blindfolded. The organisers decided to distribute both diplomats and players across both the teams instead of pitting one set against the other. Union Minister for   and Empowerment   inaugurated the game and was present as the chief guest. “Cricket is a common thread between India and Australia and I appreciate the Australian High Commission for hosting this game,” the minister said.  , the Australian Deputy High Commissioner, said, “Sports is for everyone. This inclusion is what we are trying to advocate here through this initiative. India and Australia have a great shared history in cricket and so what better way to showcase inclusion than by hosting a cricket match.”
 
 
  
  An Australian diplomat bats with blindfolds in the game
 
 The match itself was a thrilling and high-scoring affair, with Team A scoring 99 in their six overs, courtesy a half-century by eventual man-of-the-match and Indian blind team captain Ajay Reddy. Team B chased hard, but in the end fell short by 17 runs. “Such games give exposure to us and such initiatives are much needed, because we are also Indian cricketers who need more opportunities and love,” Ajay said. For the diplomats who participated in the game, it was a unique experience to be in the shoes of the blind cricketers and experience the game their way. Jenny Grant Curnow, Political Counsellor at the Australian High Commission, said, “To be blindfolded was disorienting because when one of your senses go, the others also take a hit. My respect for these cricketers has increased manifold after being in their shoes today.”
 
  
  A diplomat bats as his runner looks on
 
  
  Ajay Reddy strategising with his team during the innings break
 
 
  
  Thawarchand Gehlot, Union Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment
 
  
  Chris Elstoft, the Australian Deputy High Commissioner
 
 
  
  
 
