He is a bundle of energy on screen, but there’s a lot more to the witty actor-host  . In a candid chat with Bombay Times, he reveals how he managed to change his father’s perception about his career choice, why he never lets stress overpower him and the calming influence girlfriend   has had on his life. Excerpts... 

 
 I love dancing and used to participate in talent competitions in school. In Class X, I played a walking tree in a play. That was the first time and it felt so good! Being on stage was empowering; I could see people laugh and cry with me. Around that time, we had to choose a stream for further studies and we were wondering what to do next. I asked my best friend, ‘Tu kya karega?’ and he replied, ‘Main toh actor banoonga’. I then said to him, ‘Kya baat kar raha hai? Phir toh main bhi actor banunga.’ So, that’s how it all began. Maine shayad uske sapne se inspire hoke uss sapne ko apna banaya. From then on, I started acting in plays and knew that this is what I wanted to do in life. I came to Mumbai in 2010 and enrolled in an acting class.
 
 
 My mom was supportive, but dad, the decision maker of the house, wasn’t. He was quite orthodox, and wanted me to spend time at our textile shop and learn more about the business. So, for four years, I regularly went to the shop every Friday, but learnt nothing because I just didn’t like it. My dad was against me joining college and would say, ‘Padhke kya karna hai, dukaan hi toh sambhalni hai.’ Fortunately, mom managed to convince him to send me to college. That’s when I told him, ‘These three years of college are my years. Just let me be, and don’t force me to be at the shop. If I am not able to do anything in these three years, I’ll do whatever you want me to.’ So, I had to prove to my dad that I was capable of achieving success on my own. I did everything from background dancing to selling mobile phones and distributing pamphlets. I was also into magic and would show card tricks at kids’ birthday parties. Slowly, I started choreographing and after a couple of gigs, I got an opportunity to choreograph   for the film, ‘City of Life’ (2009). Soon, I became popular in the Sindhi circuit and was asked to choreograph a dance at a Cheti Chand event (the Sindhi New Year). At the end of it, the organisers appreciated me a lot. I stood on stage, looking at my parents, who were seated among the audience. When it was my turn to talk, I thanked them and said that I hope my dad is proud of me. Since that day, my dad has always supported me. He said, ‘Go ahead and do what you want to do in life’, because he could see the passion in me. It took me a while, but I managed to convince him. 
 
 
 Honestly, I am more of an actor than an entertainer. I love playing different characters. In fact, it’s the actor inside me, who makes me do all the entertainment on reality shows. 
 
 
 There were some shows that I really wanted to be a part of, but the makers wanted an older guy. On  , there is a pool of stories and scripts which are very similar. The shows I have done so far are all different. I don’t want to do the same thing over and over again. In the non-fiction space, I am getting to do different things; I hope that happens in the fiction space, too.
 
 
 Not really. The non-fiction shows keep me going. I don’t let anything frustrate me. You have to be in control of your life. I decide what happens, where I am headed and what I am going to achieve. I never let failure, stress or frustration get the better of me. I want to be happy, I know I have to be and I know how to be. I don’t feel content because being content can stop you from growing, but I feel happy in whatever I do. 
 
 
 There are always good times and bad times, but that should not change you as a person. It may break you at some point, but you should not let it overpower you so much that your forthcoming years get affected. This is something that I learnt from Anurag Basu. He told me, ‘You jump one metre and then, if someone asks you to attempt a two-meter jump, you will not be able to do it from the point where you are standing. You’ll have to go two steps back, run and then jump. In life too, to go ahead, you’ll have to take a couple of steps back. Never be afraid of that.’
 
 
 Yes, and I also liked a couple of scripts, but things didn’t work out. Looking back, I’m happy that they didn’t materialise. Some other scripts, too, have come my way and I hope that the best one works out. TV actors are in a vulnerable state where we are still bridging the gap between television and films. Initially, you will not have choices and you’ll have to make the best of the available options. 
 
 
 I would like to keep that a mystery. There are times when I may not be jumping around. I have built a wall around me, but I won’t say that I’m two different people. It’s just that there is a part of me which is not out there because I think it’s not necessary. But am I really so happy always? That’s something I want people to keep guessing. 
 
 
 Our bond is way stronger now. I shamelessly depend on her for sanity; she has brought calmness into my life. Like everybody else, I too have a lot of flaws, which she rectifies 
 beautifully. Asha has definitely made me a better human being and continues to do that on a daily basis. My anger was my biggest disadvantage, but she has helped me by being herself. She has twice my temper... (laughs).
 
 
 Oh yes, but she doesn’t take her anger out on anybody else; she vents it out on me and I am happy about that. I am her cushion, her punching bag, and I want to be that for life. In fact, her temper has helped me because I keep my anger in check to make sure that she is fine. It has also enabled me to get rid of a lot of negative aspects of my life. 
 
 
 We started dating when we were 23-24 years old. People do tell us that we should get married as we have been together for long, but I want it to be at the right time so that we never have to look back — not that we will ever look back. I also want to get a nice house for her. She is my princess and I want to build a palace for her. Aisa nahin ki shaadi karke usko le aaya aur apna mahal abhi bhi ban raha hai. So, that’s what I am waiting for. 
 
 
