NEW DELHI: After being   by a team of Delhi Police officers at his official residence for over three hours on Friday evening in connection with the alleged assault on Delhi’s chief secretary  , Chief Minister Arvind   on Friday described the case “false” and “politically motivated”. He said it was “unprecedented in the history of the country that a   was   to   in a false case and a raid was conducted at his house”.

 
 The questioning elicited a strong reaction from AAP functionary Ashish Khetan who asked on Twitter what crime Kejriwal had committed. “What is his crime? Has he done a scam? Did he steal  ? Did he order  ? Did he orchestrate riots? Did he give bank loans to his cronies.” Khetan asked.
 
 Mounting another attack on the BJP’s Government at the Centre — whom the CM has accused of using the LG and Delhi Police for harassing AAP government’s functionaries — Kejriwal said in a statement he released on Twitter: “The work of the AAP government in education, health, power and other sectors has caused its popularity to grow very fast. The BJP-led Centre wants to stop the development work for which it has set the LG and the Delhi Police after us.”
 
 The chief minister thanked the cops who questioned him and promised that he will continue to cooperate with investigating agencies. “The questioning took place in a healthy atmosphere. I thank the police; there is no fault of the police because they are under huge pressure to lodge false cases,” he said, accusing the Centre of using the force to lodge many false cases against him, his ministers, AAP MLAs and also his relatives.
 
 “To harass and defame us is their (Centre) only motive. The people understand everything and they are with us. We will continue to serve the country till our last breath,” Kejriwal said. “One by one, all cases are collapsing in court and the remaining too will fall in court because all the cases are false and politically motivated.”
 
 The chief spokesperson of AAP in the capital, Saurabh Bharadwaj, said: “The police officers have accepted that they are being used as a tool. People understand this and are with AAP. We are not going to be afraid of this. We will fight till our last breath. We will win every time in the court.”
 
