MUMBAI: A man who posed as a director of a finance company based in Bangkok was arrested from Faridabad on Friday for allegedly cheating an information technology (IT) firm from Mumbai of Rs 90 lakh. The accused,  , a resident of Delhi, had allegedly promised the IT firm of a loan at an attractive rate of interest. Malhotra was arrested on the basis of a complaint lodged by  , a senior general manager of the IT firm, Citicom Network Private Limited. 

 An official from the general cheating unit of the economic offences wing said that the IT firm had borrowed Rs 45 crore from a nationalised bank. "The firm's officials learnt that Malhotra's finance company in Bangkok, Global Fiscal, was disbursing loans at 0.075% interest rate," said a police officer.
 
 Officials from the two companies had met in 2013 where Malhotra agreed to lend Rs 100 crore for which a loan processing fee of Rs 60 lakh would have to be paid. Malhotra, who claimed he was a director of the company in Bangkok, had other aliases-Raj Kothari and Arunkumar Sharma-said the officer.
 
 The loan was sanctioned after verification of documents and credentials. The IT firm disbursed Rs 60 lakh as loan processing fee," said an officer.
 
 Investigating officer Vijay Mane said that after the loan processing fee was paid, Malhotra's company informed the IT firm's officials that the loan disbursal was deferred for some time. "As the loan amount did not get transferred for long, the IT firm lodged a police complaint," said Mane. 
 
 Deputy commissioner of police Parag Manere said that Malhotra, the main accused, had gone underground. "Our teams had in past gone to nab him, but returned empty-handed. He used to mislead the police by using different aliases. This time, we got information that he was supposed to visit the Saket court and that's when we picked him up," said Manere.
 
 Malhotra has been charged with cheating while and he and five of his accomplices have at least seven other similar offences of cheating registered in Mumbai and Delhi.
 
 The police said that Malhotra and his absconding accomplices- Shaket Sharma, Navin Mishra and David William-have cheated several other companies in Mumbai, Delhi, Haryana and in Madhya Pradesh.
 
 
