MUMBAI: Come April 11 and the city will wake up to a festive mood. Orphans will get free food packets and orphanages bags of ration. Volunteers metamorphosed into "angels" will hold blood donation and free health check-ups camps while some will reach out to the poor patients with fruits and juices. 

 A short drama depicting the malaise of big, fat weddings will be staged to hammer home a message: keep your weddings low key to fund mass marriages of the poor.
 
 These activities are lined up as part of the World   (April 11) commemorating the foundation day of the  . A business community that traces its roots to Thatta (now in Pakistan's Sindh) where 700 Lohana families embraced Islam in 1404 at the hands of Sufi saint Pir Yusufddin Saheb, the Memons retain their spirit of humanitarian and philanthropic works. "On April 11, 1971, 80 different jamats registered themselves with the federation. Yusuf Patel whom the Memons fondly call Baba-e-Quam or Father of the Community became its first president and immensely contributed to the organization and the community," said Iqbal Memon Officer, the federation's current president. Officer added that Memon Day is not just to mark the foundation's birthday but to reaffirm the sense of patriotism, communal harmony and humanitarian works among the people. Out of 50 lakh Memons worldwide, around 15 lakh reside in India, mostly in Gujarat and Maharashtra.
 
 The vibrant city that Mumbai embodies today would have been poorer without the Memons who came to the city from Kutch, Bhavnagar, Surat and other parts of Gujarat just as many of them sailed to East Africa, South Africa and are now settled across the world. Among the stories that the Memons quote with justifiable pride is about a community member, merchant Haji Abdulla or Dada Abdulla, who in 1893 invited  , then a struggling lawyer in Porbandar, as legal counsel to South Africa. Dada Abdulla sent Gandhi on that famous train journey from Durban to Pretoria where the future Mahatma faced racial discrimination firsthand. Gandhi stayed back to fight racialism. The rest is history. 
 
 While the Memons remember many of their stalwarts, including Haji Mohammed Saboo Siddik who gave the massive Musafirkhana near Crawford Market, Saboo Siddik Polytechnic at Byculla and many maternity homes to the city, the community will use April 11 to showcase its socio-charitable efforts. "There is no end to social works and the new generation of Memons need to be kept aware of their responsibility towards society," says Suhail Khandwani of the Khandwani Jamat.
 
 But the biggest event is coming up the federation's headquarters at Mohammed Ali Road. While the guests get to handover bundles of quilts to the impoverished Hindu sadhus (hermits) and distribute foodgrain among the poor, theatre-director Iqbal   will stage a drama called Numaish (Exhibition), highlighting the hollowness in the expensive weddings. "The play conveys the message that the poor unwed girls deserve attention while the rich in the community show off their wealth through lavish wedding receptions," said Niyazi. With celebrations spread in segments and over days featuring mehdi, sangeet and the receptions where lavish dishes are served to the huge number of guests, a Memon wedding has come to symbolize extravaganza. 
 
 
