NAGPUR: The   (NMRDA) will begin regularization of unauthorized plots and constructions in the Metro region spread over 3,567 sqm in 721 villages of nine tehsils in the district.

 The executive committee of NMRDA on Tuesday approved the proposal along with its maiden budget for 2018-19.
 
 The NMRDA’s executive committee, headed by additional chief secretary (home) Sudeep Shrivastav, held its second meeting at Mantralaya in Mumbai on Tuesday. NMRDA commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar tabled a budget of Rs 1,759 crore, which was approved by the committee. Now, the budget will be presented before NMRDA’s governing body headed by chief minister Devendra Fadnavis.
 
 Principal secretary (urban development)  , municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal, NMRDA chief engineer Sunil Gujjalwar, chief accounts and finance officer   and other officials of NMRDA were present at the meeting.
 
 Mhaisekar told TOI that NMRDA has proposed to develop logistics park at   as well as the Sumthana-Jamtha improvement scheme in 2018-19. “NMRDA also proposed to develop waste-to-fuel project at the dumping yard near Hingna MIDC. We are expecting to generate 50-60 metric tonnes of garbage from nine urban sectors situated within the Outer Ring Road. We will be producing bio-diesel and other types of fuels from garbage that can be used in vehicles. Hence, there will be no pollution issue. Also, it will be developed as a beautiful garden,” he said.
 
 The logistics park at Gondkhairi will be on the intersection of Outer Ring Road and Amravati national highway. It will be developed on 20 sqkm and will comprise godowns, offices, banks, hospitals and other amenities needed by the transport industry.
 
 The Sumthana-Jamtha improvement scheme will cover Sumthana, Kotewada, Sondapar, Jamtha and Parsodi villages in Hingna tehsil. It will be a 2,318-acre mega residential township.
 
 Mhaisekar said all the government projects of Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) will be transferred to NMRDA. “An estimated revenue of Rs1,367 crore will come from government projects and the remaining through revenue sources of NMRDA. The government projects also include the proposed Buddhist Circuit, which will come to NMRDA for sure,” he said.
 
 Mhaisekar said NMRDA has also proposed to develop market, godown and cold storages for agriculture produce in association with the agriculture department. “NMRDA has already written a letter to the agriculture department and will finalize the number of centres and locations. It has also proposed to build housing schemes with 6,000 flats under the Prime Minister Awas Yojana. Sulabh shauchalayas will be constructed, a few specially for women, in the Metro region,” he said.
 
 NMRDA will regularize unauthorized plots and constructions as per recent notification of the state government. It will prepare a list of all compoundable unauthorized plots and constructions cropped up till December 31, 2015, and start regularization. Unauthorized plots and constructions in nine urban sectors and 750-1,000m from gaothan areas will be eligible for the scheme.
 
 NMRDA’s budget is almost double than NIT’s last year budget of Rs959.40 crore. If NIT is not abolished before April, the civic agency will also have to present a separate budget covering seven schemes and Gunthewari areas within the city limits.
 
 
