Panaji: When the Deltin Group started negotiations with the Indian Super League to buy   and had some doubts, one of the co-owners helped make up their mind.

 Dattaraj Salgaocar and Shrinivas Dempo were exiting the franchise but Videocon and, of course, a certain Virat   were going nowhere. Infact, Kohli – India’s successful cricket captain – was left in no doubt that the league was meant for better days and helped the new owners make a quick decision.
 
 Since then, it’s been smooth sailing for both, never mind the wobble in the first year when FC Goa finished at the bottom. The new season brought in fresh perspective, newer ideas and a set of players who have dished out the most exciting football. As Kohli himself admitted in his exclusive interview with TOI, “in terms of the   that we have played, this is the best.”
 
 Goa, though, are looking beyond the field and club president Akshay Tandon understand the benefit of having Kohli on board.
 
 “We inherited Virat and we are very grateful for that. During the process of buying the team, having someone like Virat (as co-owner) obviously helped. Football needs brand equity, just to have that popular culture,” said Tandon.
 
 Over the last 15 months, Tandon and Kohli has had several meaningful discussions and have realised that there is more to him than just a brand.
 
 “We shouldn’t focus on using Virat, for example, as a brand to bring marketing deals. We want to crack a 15-year vision together. On the (cricket) field, he probably has 10 years but when it comes to leaving a legacy, there is no better person on what someone can do for sport, or what sports can do for India.
 
 “One of the vision that keeps me ticking as far as FC Goa goes, is we know what it feels to have a billion people behind cricket. Can we together have a role and get a billion people behind football? That’s what excites us,” said the FC Goa president.
 
 Kohli showed up at the Nehru Stadium in Fatorda for the first time since being witness to that infamous 2015 final loss against Chennaiyin FC when Goa conceded two goals in the last three minutes. His presence was largely to show support to the Forca Goa Foundation, which has been quietly working towards developing grassroot football and infrastructure.
 
 “I think one of the biggest areas where we can work together is figuring out how to invest in infrastructure. Our dream (through the foundation) is to be able to convert school and panchayat grounds into world class facilities. As a club, we dream to build the best academy in the country,” said Tandon.
 
 QUOTE
 
 We shouldn’t focus on using Virat as a brand to bring marketing deals. We want to crack a 15-year vision together. On the field, he probably has 10 years but when it comes to leaving a legacy, there is no better person on what someone can do for sport, or what sports can do for India
 
 Akshay Tandon, FC Goa President
 
 
