RAIPUR:   became an overnight sensation after his hat-trick in the Ranji Trophy semifinal. Tweeple wanted him to be sent on the tour of South Africa or to be picked up by one of the   teams like   and Chennai Super Kings.

 The first is unlikely to happen but there is a good possibility of the second. TOI learns that 22 Vidarbha players, including all 15 members of the Ranji Trophy winning team, are among the 1,122 players signed up to be a part of the IPL Player Auction scheduled to be held in Bengaluru on January 27 and 28.
 
 However, it doesn't automatically grant them a place in the auction. The final pool would be prepared by the end of next week once the franchises submit their wish list to the cricket Board.
 
 In Ranji Trophy, Gurbani had picked up 39 wickets at an average of 17.12 with five five-wicket hauls. However, he has taken just two wickets in four matches so far in the Central Zone Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy here.
 
 The likes of Apoorv Wankhede, Akshay Karnewar,  , Akshay Wakhare and Aditya Sarvate are already on the franchise wish list. Faiz is the second highest run-getter in Ranji Trophy, while Wakhare and Sarvate are among the top ten wicket-takers in the country. A few players had given trials for Mumbai Indians and another is expected to do so for   on Monday.
 
 Talent scouts of various teams have been watching Vidarbha from the knock-out stage of Ranji Trophy to the league phase of the ongoing matches.
 
 Monty Desai, the former Rajasthan Royals coach and the talent scout of Gujarat Lions, admitted that everyone has an eye on Vidarbha players but refused to name any one in particular. He feels the form of Vidarbha players in the current T20 matches will be important from an IPL auction point of view.
 
 "If Vidarbha qualifies for the Super League they will get a few more matches to impress the IPL teams," said Desai, adding that the   advanced the Mushtaq Ali trophy to ensure the franchises have a good look at all players.
 
 Another reputed talent scout said Twenty20 will require different skill sets. "Vidarbha players are talented and they showed it in Ranji Trophy. Now, they must look at gaining consistency to get noticed," said a talent scout who did not want to be named.
 
 "What might be a wicket-taking delivery in the longer format could be a boundary ball in Twenty20. The conditions, wickets, crowd pressure and the quality of players, everything is different in IPL. You need to be mentally very strong to cope with that," he added.
 
 Desai said "personally" he would also look at Ranji Trophy performance to see the skill set of a player. "I would like to see the value they bring in when the chips are down, the attitude, the temperament, which comes into play when they approach certain games," he said, adding that players need to adapt to T20 as well.
 
 The scout felt that Fazal should be a favourite as he is showing "determination and hunger for runs".
 
 Vidarbha have been doing well in Twenty20 for the last four-five years but nobody has really noticed their performance. The victory in Ranji Trophy has changed everything.
 
 
