KOLKATA: Calcutta High Court lawyers on Tuesday resolved to carry on their cease-work till April 18, when the stir would complete two months and after which it would enter the record books as the longest shutdown in the history of the country’s oldest court.

 The longest cease-work by HC lawyers till now happened in 2002, when the agitation over a hike in stamp duty went on for two months. This time the lawyers are pressing for the immediate filling up of judge vacancies. When the shutdown began on Februrary 18, the HC bench strength had dipped to 30 against an approved strength of 72. Thereafter, three new judges were appointed and the   collegium recommended the appointment of another five.
 
 The   met on Tuesday following an appeal by Acting Chief Justice Jyotirmay Bhattachary to return to work, but a majority of the members were for continuing the agitation. The other two lawyers’ bodies – the   and the   – chose to follow the Bar’s lead.
 
 
 
 
 President Uttam Majumder said: “The Bar Association took a resolution that since there was no satisfactory progress in filling up of long-pending vacancies of judges, the cease-work will continue till April 18.”
 
 The Bar Association resolution, however, was not an unanimous one, with a section speaking against continuing with the stir. The motion was put to vote. The resolution mentions that a majority of the members resolved to continue the cease-work till April 18.
 
 At the Bar Library Club though, the decision was unanimous. “In solidarity with the Bar Association, the Bar Library Club members have also decided to extend the ceasework till April 18,” Jayanta Mitra, the president, said.
 
 The move to carry on with the cease-work comes in the backdrop of Supreme Court’s observation last Wednesday that irreversible damage was being done to the judicial system by lawyers going on strike. The   also decided to act tough against erring advocates and Bar associations that passed strike resolutions and directed the Centre to file quarterly reports on the basis of which contempt proceedings would be initiated against them.
 
 The apex court in 2002 had banned lawyers’ strikes. In the 2002 Harish Uppal case, the SC had held that lawyers have no right to go on strike or give a boycott call, not even hold a token strike. The agitating lawyers in Calcutta HC cite an exception — “rarest of rare case” — mentioned in this SC order.
 
 
