GURDASPUR: As the nation observes the second anniversary of the attack on Pathankot air force base, the families of martyr Havaldar Kulwant Singh and Subedar Fateh Singh, two among seven security personals who laid down their lives in a three-day long gun battle with Pak-sponsored militants, await due honour for their loved ones. While Havildar Kulwant Singh's son was offered a job of a peon,  's daughter is still waiting for her appointment letter. 

 Though the families have expressed satisfaction with the compensation and service benefits they have received as martyrs' kin, they are waiting for naming of local schools as well as construction of a memorial gate in the memory of the deceased soldiers.
 
 Havaldar Kulwant's elder son  , 20, a resident Chak Sharif village told TOI that he was pursuing second year of graduation. He was offered a peon's job by the Sainik Welfare Board which he declined, he added."When my father had died, the government had promised a job in the police department," he said.
 
 Martyr's wife Harbhajan Kaur said the government had also announced that a gas agency would be allotted to the family but there had been no communication about it since. "We have applied through the   but don't know when we will get the agency," she said.
 
 However, Madhu Rana, daughter of Subedar Fateh Singh, an ace shooter and winner of   and silver medals in  , said naming of a school and construction of a memorial gate in her father's name by government would have been a befitting honour for his martyrdom. The deceased Subedar's wife Shobha Thakur said, "All I wish is future safety and prosperity of my children". Immediately after martyrdom of her husband, the government had made several promises, many of which were still unfulfilled, she alleged.
 
 Meanwhile, Kunwar   from Shaheed Sainik Parivar Suraksha Parishad, said,"We are observing anniversary of the martyrs on January 3rd at Kahnuwan that many Army and civil administration officials would attend. The Parishad members will again urge the government to fulfill the promises made to these families," he said.
 
 
