LUCKNOW: Lucknow has recorded the second highest number of premature deaths due to pollution-related diseases among 11 north Indian cities assessed.
 
 The study, conducted by the   (CEED) in collaboration with  , recorded data for 17 years to come up with the findings.
 
  
  
 Titled ‘Know what you breathe’, the study analysed air quality from 2000 to 2016 and collated it with deaths caused due to respiratory diseases. The report studied PM 2.5 concentration recorded through satellite.
 
 The findings revealed that an estimated 4,127 deaths took place annually in the city due to diseases like chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, Ischemic heart disease, lung cancer and acute lower respiratory infection.
 
 One factor causing these diseases is PM2.5, a deadly particulate matter of diameter less than 2.5 micrometres fine enough to enter the bloodstream.
 
 “PM2.5 concentration in Lucknow air was 88 per cubic metre of air which is over two times the national annual standard (40 per cubic metre) and eight times of WHO’s annual permissible limits of 10 per cubic metre,” said senior programme officer of CEED Ankita  .
 
 Seven of the 11 cities assessed are from Uttar Pradesh. . Meerut recorded the highest pollution level, while Kanpur recorded the highest pollution-related deaths.
 
 The study found that residential pollution emission due to burning of coal or wood for cooking, lighting and heating purposes was the leading cause of high pollution levels and health hazards.
 
 Jyoti said cause-specific mortality data doesn’t exist in India, therefore, a method developed as part of the ‘global burden of diseases’ to find indicative data for the mortality rate has been adopted.
 
 This method is followed by the   to arrive at a number.
 
 “We have taken district wise mortality data available with the health department. From there, we took the number of deaths caused by the five diseases and divided them by the probable factors responsible for these diseases,” said Jyoti.
 
