PUNE: Hot days have become the norm in Pune, but warm nights are a novelty and are making citizens lose their sleep. The night temperature has been higher than the normal on most days since the last week.

 
  
 
 It recently shot up to 24.4 degrees celsius in Shivajinagar on Monday, and has been on the higher side on many nights. Met department officials do not expect much change in the day or night temperatures during the next few days, with these temperatures to be around 39 degrees C and 22 degrees C.
 
 The normal daily minimum temperature in Pune during the month of May is 21.9 degrees C. On Wednesday morning, the minimum temperature in the city was 22.6 degrees C, while the maximum temperature was recorded at 40.7 degrees C at Shivajinagar later during the day.
 
 India   ( ) officials said the minimum temperature in the city has not been exponentially high.
 
 However, citizens said nights have become particularly warm and humid since the last few days. House wife Damini Mishra said that a week ago, a walk outside in the night would be a pleasant experience. “The last few nights have been quite unpleasant, especially if one is not in air-conditioned environs,” she said.
 
 The ‘real feel’ night temperature in the city was 24 degrees C on Wednesday, while the ‘real feel’ day temperature was a warm 44 degrees C, as per a private weather forecaster.
 
 An IMD official said an increase of a degree or two in the minimum temperature could be attributed to the natural temperature variability of a region.
 
 “Generally, cloudy skies during night time cause an increase in the night temperature. Conversely, there has been little clouding in the night in the city in the past few days. The only reason for the warm nights could be the moisture in the middle level of the atmosphere. Vapour formation in that level could be causing some warming during the night,” the official said.
 
 Meanwhile, the IMD website which released a report on May 8 about the ongoing severe weather activity over the country and warnings for the next five days said widespread thunderstorms were likely simultaneously over northwest, central, east, northeast and peninsular India from May 13. 
 
 The Met department also forecast hot weather conditions for Maharashtra with heat wave conditions at one or two pockets over Vidarbha for the next few days. 
 
 
