Hip-hop music in India is blowing up in a big way these days. The genre is now being celebrated by Bollywood, with Zoya Akhtar making a movie (starring Ranveer Singh) on Mumbai rappers   and Divine’s lives. But the real place where hip-hop comes from is still the street — the gully as they say in Mumbai. With local rappers in Hindi and English making it big, Marathi rappers are not far behind. A group of 12 young artistes are rapping about social issues and the life they observe around them and their rhymes are hot! Read on to know their story…

 
 Experiences that young people go through in their lives are easy to translate into hip-hop than any other music genre. You don’t need an instrument to make it. All you need is wit, grit and a basic two-beat track to make a rap song. And it is no different for the   group. While Marathi rap did exist as a genre before, it was quite scattered. It got a definite direction recently, when a group of youngsters listening to hip-hop in English and Hindi, decided to write and record songs in a language they could relate to. This need to create music and the fact that rap songs are not tough to produce, had them forming crews of two or three, writing songs and releasing them through online video platforms. One such fateful meeting led to the formation of Mumbai’s biggest rap collective, Marathi Hip-Hop.
 Straight Outta Mumbai!
 “Initially, we would listen to rap in English and Hindi and wanted to that genre taking shape in Marathi, too. But, there was no real scene happening on that front. Not even in the clubs. However, there were people from Mumbai who would record a video of rapping in Marathi online,” says 19-year-old Shashank Katkar aka Jazzy Nanu, a student of sound engineering. In 2017, seven of them decided to meet at a common friend’s place and jam. Little did they know that this jam would change all their lives for good. Siddhesh Tirmal, who was present at the recording, recalls, “We were just chilling and having a good time. We exchanged notes, wrote a few rhymes, and by the end of it, decided to record a few verses.” The video, rough to say the least, had pre-recoded beats, but the rhymes were sharp, to the point and provided a variety with each rapper’s delivery.
 
 
 The seven-member crew then put the video online, and by the next morning it had gone viral. Says Jazzy Nanu, “In the morning, I woke up and saw that the video had 30,000-40,000 views. People just loved it and also, gave encouraging comments. Until now, the video has around eight lakh views on all the channels combined. After seeing the response, we joined together professionally and created the collective Marathi hip-hop.” Today, the collective has four songs between them, all based on social topics; they include Aakrosh, Navshair, Samajik and Laaj Dhar. 
 
  
  
 
 When Sarang Sathe, who has a company that creates regional digital content, chanced upon the solo videos posted by young Marathi rappers, he was taken up by the quality of thought that the young artists displayed. Says Sarang, “We immediately knew that they did not lack in terms of style or art. What they lacked was support in terms of producing quality content. That’s where we came in.”
 Sarang, along with Anusha Nandakumar and Paula McGlynn, met with the rappers and talked about doing a slick, almost zero-budget music video. While at first there was no set theme about creating songs with a social message, Sarang found their discussions wavering towards social topics. He explains, “I saw that they were interested in the issues around them. We are not a political company, but we have no problem if someone comes with content that is political. I asked them whether they were serious about doing rap around issues, and they were totally on board.” The moment they stepped out of Sarang’s offices in Bandra Kurla Complex, as if on cue, the rappers came up with some really inspiring lines about the cultural difference between the people living and working out of the posh buildings and other Mumbakars. “I saw them rhyme, and I was like, wow! I told them to write a cypher on it, and they had it ready within no time. It was perfect, I did not have to change a word in it. With a few tweaks, we had on our hands a finished product.” 
 
 
 The music that Marathi Hip-Hop creates is mostly underground for now, and success in clubs is still not on the horizon. However, the crew already performs at colleges across the city, at cultural festivals and at music open mics. In fact, Sarang has heard their songs play during Ganesh visarjan as well. So, do they plan to go beyond socially relevant rap and do club numbers? “We have so many genres and songs to explore. Exploring the social scenario is an integral part of hip-hop. Still, there is no harm in having fun and exploring all sorts of sub-genres. But again, we don’t see ourselves doing songs like Chaar Bottle Vodka. However this is just the beginning,” says Rushikesh Jadhav aka MC Azad. Indeed it is!
 
 
 
 
