PATNA: India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast isolated showers in the state on Monday and Tuesday. It is likely to be the maiden shower in the state this winter, which is in its last leg. 

 Private   agency   stated that light rain is expected in  , especially in the southern districts, on Sunday and Monday. Though the showers are expected to be very light in nature, the sky will remain cloudy throughout.
 
 The Skymet report further stated that places such as Gaya, Patna Aurangabad, Nawada, Jamui and Banka are likely to witness rain. This approaching spell of rain is, however, likely to skip north Bihar.
 
 Images from Insat-3D satellite showed cloudy sky over major parts of Bihar, including Patna, on Saturday. The expected showers have been attributed to combined impact of a western disturbance and a cyclonic circulation. The cyclonic circulation was situated over Jharkhand and adjoining areas of north Odisha and Gangetic  . Showers already occurred at a few places in Jharkhand, including Daltonganj and adjoining areas on Friday.
 
 An IMD bulletin on Saturday stated that the current western disturbance with associated induced cyclonic circulation and its interaction with low-level easterlies are likely to cause scattered to fairly widespread precipitation over north and central India during February 11-13.
 
 “While the rainfall is likely to peak intensity on February 12, isolated thunderstorm with hailstorm are likely over north and central India during February 11-12 and over east India on February 13,” the IMD bulletin stated.
 
 Skymet Weather stated that humid winds from the Bay of Bengal are likely to pump moisture over Jharkhand and Bihar. A north-south trough over central India would also support showers in the region.
 
 The showers are also expected to bring the maximum temperature down by two to four degrees Celsius. Night temperature, on the other hand, is expected to remain on the higher side in Bihar until February 11, following which it will register a fall of two to three notches.
 
 
