PANAJI:   have been rocked with the three-match suspension for three of their players who were allegedly involved in the half-time fracas inside the tunnel and eventually red-carded during their   quarterfinal against Jamshedpur FC.
 
  The All India   Federation’s disciplinary committee met on Saturday and decided to ban all six players, which includes three from Jamshedpur FC, for six matches, while Jamshedpur FC coach Robert Andrew is also among those suspended.
  
  FC Goa captain  , defender Sergio Juste and goal-scorer Brandon Fernandes as well as Jamshedpur FC trio of Subrata Paul, Anas Edathodika and Kervens Belfort were shown marching orders after players and officials from both teams got engaged into a scuffle inside the tunnel when they were headed for their respective dressing rooms at halftime.
  
  Goa couldn’t believe their eyes when they received a mail from the   detailing the sanctions and decided to immediately lodge an appeal with the appeals committee of the AIFF.
  
  “As per the regulations of the Super Cup, under Article 20, we would like to officially request for the decision to be taken to the Appeals committee for reconsideration. We would like to appeal for suspension orders that have been handed out to all three players as we find them to be excessive and in light of the lack of evidence provided to us, disputable,” the club said in an appeal late on Saturday.
  
  The suspension of Sergio Juste, in particular, has shocked the club with several testifying that the Spanish defender was nowhere near the ‘action’.
  
  “We were all taken aback by the decision. The players were in for a rude shock when they heard about the ban. Everyone who was present thinks that they have been treated very harshly. Crazily enough, Sergio wasn’t even close to where it all happened and he has been banned.
  
  “What the players find most surprising is that they are unable to see the video based on which they are being sanctioned. I think transparency is clearly missing in this process,” said a senior FC Goa official, adding that is a shame that players who were actually trying to win this tournament with all their efforts are the ones who are being forced to sit out.
  
  FC Goa play   in the first semifinal on Monday without five of their players.
