CHENNAI: Initial inquiries into the suicide of a life convict at   central prison on Wednesday show that he was dejected after being booked by the police for allegedly participating in the anti-Sterlite protests.   of Thiruviyapuram in   allegedly committed suicide by hanging in his prison cell. 

 
 The prison authorities said that after 13 people were killed in the firing, the police arrested many people including Bharath. "He was in his house on parole when a police team knocked on his door on May 23. He apparently showed parole papers to show he was not involved in the protests. But the police slapped two cases of rioting and arson against him. He was on the verge of being released from prison permanently, after serving 12 years of his sentence following conviction in a murder case. But slapping of new cases dashed his hopes of any early release," said a prison official.
 
 "Bharath, 36, was mentally down after he returned from parole. He kept telling us he was not involved in the protests. We counselled him as he was depressed," said superintendent of Palayamkottai prison, C Krishna Kumar.
 
 Bharath was undergoing imprisonment since December 2005. Prison officials in the correction administration said Bharath would have been eligible for a premature release. He was among the 300-odd life convicts shortlisted for premature release from Palayamkottai prison following a government order. He was given six days of parole from May 17. His family was apparently looking for a bride for him.
 
 Following his arrest in the anti-Sterlite protests, he was lodged in Tuticorin district jail. After the court granted mass bail to all the accused, Bharath was shifted to the central prison on May 24. Going by the parole condition, he should have returned to the prison a day later.
 
 According to prison manual and the GO for premature release, convicts with pending cases are ineligible for premature release.
 
 Prison officials said Bharath had appeared for Class XII board exams this year. He was granted parole based on his "good conduct".
 
 Sources said prison authorities advised many life convicts from Tuticorin to avoid availing parole after Bharath's suicide.
 
 
