CHANDIGARH:   chief minister Captain   on Thursday ordered a vigilance probe into the alleged nexus between government officials and the illegal mining mafia in   area. The action has come at a time when the state government is facing a severe political backlash over its apparent inability to curb illegal sand mining in the state. 

 While chairing a meeting of the DCs and SSPs of 14 mining districts, Amarinder ordered to immediately move out the  ,   and SHO pending an investigation. While SDM   was ordered to report to the chief secretary's office, DSP P S Bal and SHO Pawan Kumar have been shifted to the police lines.
 
 Amarinder also directed the DCs and SSPs to expand the ambit of their investigation to cover the owners and actual bidders of the mines, as well as owners of the equipment used in illegal mining. Guardians of governance (Rakha) have also been deputed at each mining site.
 
 During the meeting, officers pointed out lacunae in the mining policy resulting in illegal mining. Under central government rules, heavy equipment was allowed to be used only on sites bigger than 62.5 acres. The officials pointed out that manual extraction on sites smaller than 12.5 acres was financially unviable, leading to violations by the owners of these sites.
 
 Amarinder directed the mining department to explore the possibility of auctioning only large sites which were considered viable.
 
 Ensure only realistic bids in future: CM
 
 Officers also raised the issue of sand shortage in some mines, to which the mining department clarified that bidders were aware of the amount at the time of bidding and usually went ahead with the bid only to engage in illegal mining.
 
 Amarinder then directed the department to ensure only realistic bids in the future. The officers also suggested GPS tracking of tippers, scientific demarcation of mining sites with proper coordinates, besides installation of WiFi-enabled CCTVs at all sensitive check points to monitor vehicles.
 
 The officers also pointed out misuse of ‘weightment’ slips and suggested the slips be marked with the time of departure of the tipper from the quarry, along with other details, such as area covered.
 
 The crackdown on illegal mining has happened after the chief minister spotted machines engaged in extracting sand from the Satluj when he was on his way to Kartarpur in a chopper on Tuesday.
 
 
 
