Nagpur: Cracking the whip, the municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal has suspended three staffers — two from the property tax department and one from the fire and emergency services department — on Monday. Suspension orders of one more staffer from the property tax department is likely to be issued on Wednesday. The two suspended staffers of property tax department are Sachin Meshram, tax inspector from Hanuman Nagar zone and Jawahar Dhongade, junior tax inspector from Nehru Nagar zone. Tax inspector from Laxmi Nagar zone Anand Fulzele is likely to be suspended on Wednesday. From fire department, Vijay Wanjari, incharge of Sakkardara fire station, has been suspended. Monday’s action reveals that misappropriation of property tax revenue continued in the civic body despite introduction of online system. In 2013, large scale embezzlement of property tax revenue came to the fore during audit. Around eight staffers from three zones were suspended then. These staffers collected property tax amount from the citizens but did not deposit the same in the NMC’s accounts. At that time, the tax receipts were issued manually. It was also found that the civic staffers had reduced tax dues of some of the citizens fraudulently. Taking cognizance of the irregularities in the manual system of tax collection, the NMC switched over to online system in 2015. Corrections in the property tax amount and collection of tax money followed by issuing receipts were made online. However, the staffers found ways to misappropriate the property tax revenue even in the online system. Assistant commissioner (property tax) Milind Meshram told TOI that Sachin Meshram reduced property tax of a Siraspeth resident Ishwar Potdukhe from Rs 49,000 to Rs 4,000 without any approval and reasons. “Tax inspectors are given user ID and password to get access of the property tax system. They can make changes in the tax demand in the online system. But they can do so only after completing necessary procedures, including taking approval from assistant commissioner. Sachin fraudulently brought down Potdukhe’s tax taking undue advantage of access to the system,” he said. Meshram added Sachin committed the irregularity by accessing the system using ID and password of Dhongade who is from different zone. “Dhongade was on medical leave at that time. Interestingly, Potdukhe’s property was not even under Sachin’s jurisdiction. This property comes under tax inspector Anita Shau’s jurisdiction. Potdukhe had not paid annual property tax of Rs 3,600 since 2010. Arrears of Rs 49,000 were due from Potdukhe. Shahu slapped notice on Potdukhe asking why his property should not be auctioned. Potdukhe approached Meshram and got reduced the property tax dues. Shahu learnt about the irregularity when Potdukhe paid only Rs 4,000 as tax dues,” he said. Dhongade faced suspension for sharing his user ID and password despite it being confidential. On Monday, Sachin filed a writ petition in the high court challenging the NMC’s show-cause notice dated December 14, 2017. Hearing in the case was held on Tuesday. Sachin’s counsel sent a letter to the NMC on Tuesday saying, “Justices BP Dharmadhikari and Swapna Joshi gave directives to you that no coercive step shall be taken against Sachin. The matter has been fixed for January 30.” As chances of more such cases taking place cannot be ruled out, Meshram has ordered detailed inquiry into properties whose tax dues were reduced. “Also, the tax inspectors have been stripped of the powers to make rectification (correction) in the tax dues. Now, all corrections will be done only at the head office,” he said. Meshram added Fulzele’s case was put up before Mudgal. “Tax inspectors generate receipts after receiving payment from the citizens in the online system. Tax inspectors are given powers to cancel the receipts for various reasons. Detailed inquiry revealed that Fulzele used to collect tax amount, generate online receipts and then cancel the receipts. Thus, he used to swindle the tax money. Some taxpayers lodged complaint that they have received demand notes showing arrears despite paying tax. It happened in 2015-16 and came to fore now. Detailed investigation will be done to know if any such misappropriations is going on in other zones also,” he said. Wanjari was suspended after he was found under the influence of liquor while on duty. Wanjari was posted as incharge of Sakkardara fire station only last year.