Visakhapatnam: Movie patrons in the city are miffed that they are still being forced to pay an outrageous sum for a bottle of drinking water at multiplexes, despite a central government notification and an order from the district magistrate prohibiting such practices.

 While several complaints have been made to this extent, TOI has also found that a one-litre bottle of water is being sold at Rs 60 in a popular   in the heart of the city.
 
 However, legal metrology officials say they are now powerless since the multiplexes in Vizag — much like their counterparts elsewhere — have circumvented the anti-dual pricing order and extracting three times the normal cost of a water bottle in a manner which they call ‘special product/packaging’.
 
 “The water bottle we sell is not a regular one but an Irish brand and specially packed, hence the rate is higher. While one can argue that a bottle of mineral water costs only Rs 20 in the outside market; let me point out that there are some premium water bottles out there which cost Rs 5,000 a litre,” a manager of a multiplex in the city, who did not wish to be named, reasoned.
 
 “We are not indulging in dual MRP. Our water bottles are specially made and packaged and it is up to the customers to buy them. We don’t force anyone,” the multiplex official added.
 
 When TOI took the matter to the notice of Visakhapatnam collector Pravin Kumar, he called for a report from the legal metrology department. Kumar had in October instructed multiplexes to stop overcharging on food and beverages.
 
 Startlingly, legal metrology officials state that they cannot prevent or book cases against multiplexes for over-charging through this ‘special product route”.
 
 “We inspected four city multiplexes a few days back but we did not find dual-priced sale or stock of such products in their premises,” said P Sudhakar, assistant controller, legal metrology department, Visakhapatnam.
 
 “Further, we have found that multiplexes are selling one pre-packed drinking water with an international brand name at MRP of Rs 60. Our enquiry has revealed that this product is not available in the open market with a lower or different price tag. In fact, it is not available in the local market. Hence it could not be construed as violation of the dual pricing rules,” the official said, adding that cases could not be registered.
 
 Movie-goers are questioning the purpose of framing rules which provide no relief to the customer. “If rules have lacunae like this, they are prone to be misused. The government should bring in stringent provisions to stop overpricing of a common commodity like water,” fumed T N Srinivas, a chartered accountant working with a MNC in Vizag.
 
 A recent Supreme Court order reportedly allowed hotels and restaurants to charge over and above the MRP of a water bottle since they provide comfort, cutlery etc. “But in the multiplexes we are paying extra already in form of the costly ticket for the comfortable ambiance we use,” said Srinivas.
 
 
