Nagpur: The Akola district collectorate’s decision to auction 34 sand ghats without a mandatory district survey report (DSR) has come in for a sharp criticism from local wildlife lovers and environmentalists. The 34 sand ghats out of the total 45 were e-auctioned for a royalty of Rs4.85 crore in March without the DSR, which is an important initial step before permitting sand mining and granting environment clearance. According to Akot-based Manish Jeswani, an environment & wildlife lawyer, Supreme Court in 2012 had made it mandatory to seek environment clearance even for leases below 5 hectare and emphasized on systematic and environmentally sound mining activities. Based on this order, the ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) amended environment impact assessment (EIA) notification in 2016 and created District Environment Impact Assessment Authority (DEIAA) for granting clearances to sand ghats below 5 hectare. Jeswani says this amended notification makes it mandatory for DEIAA to prepare DSR before granting clearance. Even MoEFCC’s ‘Sustainable Sand Mining Guidelines 2016’ requires each district to prepare a DSR. DSR contains data of sand extracted in last three years and royalty paid thereon. “It gives clarity to sand mining procedure and also postulates threat to environment and rivers due to sand mining. DSR helps to identify river streams, bed and availability of sand,” said Jeswani. On the contrary, district collector Astik Kumar Pandey said, “There is complete transparency in auction and all procedures and high court orders were followed. We even have district mining plan in place, and state government has also supported the entire process.” “Akot is the biggest illegal sand mining pocket. Vested interests there want the legal process to be scrapped so that illegal activities can be restarted,” Pandey said.  District mining officer Atul Dod too echoed the same version of collector but could not give any explanation on DSR. He admitted that DSR is not ready. “I’m studying the complaint submitted by Jeswani,” Dod said. He promised to reply to the queries, but did not respond later. Jeswani says officials are misleading. DSR is to be prepared every five years by DEIAA with the help of Groundwater Survey and Development Agency (GSDA), irrigation and forest departments among others. “The DSR draft is required to be kept in public domain in the collectorate inviting comments in 21 days. After considering comments, DSR is to be published on the district’s website. No environment clearance can be granted without DSR,” says wildlife enthusiast Vijay Chauhan. Jeswani says, in Akola as no DSR has been prepared since 2016, there is no data on pollution caused in rivers and the amount of sand extracted in last three years. Sand mining is being permitted in violation of MoEFCC guidelines. Interestingly, the environment clearance has been uploaded on the website but in the column of DSR, report of GSDA is attached. “Environment clearance is granted mechanically in violation of norms,” says Chauhan. Jeswani said he is filing a petition in the National Green Tribunal (NGT), Pune. “Sand is a minor mineral and riverbed mining and extraction is necessary for developmental activities but at the same time ecosystem of rivers and environment has to be maintained,” he said.