BADAMI: Political pundits and his detractors may claim that chief minister Siddaramaiah chose Badami as his second option because he is facing a stiff challenge on his home turf Chamundeshwari, but on Saturday it was only the second time he campaigned from the constituency after filing his candidature on April 24. And if party leaders are to be believed, it is the last time he campaigned in Badami.

 
 Despite arriving late from Mysuru, Siddaramaiah was welcomed amid chants of “Karnataka da huli bandhano” (The tiger of Karnataka has arrived), indicating people aren’t completely averse to his contesting from the constituency.
 
 When asked if the people of Badami are OK with Siddaramaiah as an aspirant from the constituency, a senior citizen and a Congress supporter said: “We have to be OK. He has a lot of fan following. People have come by bus from Davanagere to attend his rally.”
 
 Citing time crunch, the CM took the mike and began his speech in a packed under-construction building, with primarily the backward communities as his audience. “I filed my nomination from Badami after being pressured by party leaders from Bagalkot and the people of Badami. In a way, I’m contesting from all 224 constituencies,” Siddaramaiah said to loud cheers, adding that once elected, he’d transform Badami.
 
 “I will finish all the projects, after getting a list from the leaders of the region, within five years,” he said. Recalling all the   schemes of the Congress government, the CM asked his audience if they benefited from the same.
 
 Attacking the BJP, Siddaramaiah said that his opponent B Sreeramulu has arrived in Badami eyeing the “loot”, after draining Ballari and   of their ore.
 
 “They (Sreeramulu and Reddy brothers) have completely looted those districts and have now turned their attention to Badami, perhaps looking for a loot after receiving information of ore here too,” he said.
 
 Later, moving from one location to another, the CM continued with his attack on the opposition with the intent of diverting the focus on the corruption charges against the state BJP.
 
 According to party leaders, this is the second time the CM campaigned in Badami. The first time he campaigned was after filing his nomination papers. “This will also be his last, considering he has no time after this to come back,” said a rather relaxed former minister Satish  , who has been tasked with campaigning on behalf of Siddaramaiah.
 
 Jarkiholi said there is not much of a reason for Siddaramaiah to continue his campaign in Badami in the last week as this is a “rather safe” constituency compared to Chamundeshwari.
 
 “Badami has a sizeable Congress voter base and we have our strategy in place,” said Jarkiholi , defending Siddaramaiah’s decision to leave the constituency in his hands.
 
 Apart from Satish Jarkiholi, other leaders like S R  , R B Thimmapur and B B Chimmanakatti are also working towards ensuring Siddaramaiah’s victory in Badami.
 
