BHOPAL: The state cyber cell on Tuesday claimed to have busted an online job racket being operated in Delhi and arrested two persons including a woman who is the director and manager of the  .

 The accused confessed to having duped more than 2,000 job seekers in the past six months from various parts of the country. They used to earn around Rs 20,000 on a daily basis from unemployed looking for a job.
 
 The website director, a class 12 pass out, was earlier associated with a similar fraudulent job portal. After police arrested her former boss, she came up with her own online job portal six months ago and employed around a dozen girls as tele-callers at a salary of Rs 10,000 -15,000 per month. The accused were about to wind up their business on March 31, but were nabbed by the police.
 
 SP (Cyber Cell) Shailendra Singh Chouhan said the accused were identified as Monika, 23, a resident of Moti Nagar in Delhi and Naveen Kumar, 28, a resident of West Delhi. Monika is the director of the fraudulent job website Naukrisearch.in. Naveen is the manager of the website and has an MBA.
 
 Police took action on a complaint filed by Nafees Khan, a resident of Sarai Sikandari in Bhopal, who operates an MPOnline kiosk. In his complaint, filed in February he told police that on February 1, a girl came to his kiosk to register and update her profile on Naukrisearch.in. A Rs 199 fee was charged once the profile was updated. The girl asked Nafees to pay the amount. The payment was unsuccesful even after multiple tries. And the girl’s data could not be submitted to the website. 
 
 Later in the day Rs 5000 was deducted from Nafees’s account. After which he reported the crime to cyber cell. Police registered a case against unidentified accused under relevant sections of IPC and IT Act and started investigations.
 
 Police found that the website was accessed from Delhi. A special team was sent to Delhi and after three days of search, police came to know that the website was being operated from Shadipur. Police team raided the spot and nabbed the accused duo.
 
 Monika and Naveen confessed of committing the fraud. They had appointed 10-15 girl students as tele-callers who used to contact potential clients and offered them to register on website by paying an amount of Rs 199. For this, they used the data bought from another job search website.
 
 Once the user uploaded their card details to pay registration amount, the website was programmed to show a payment declined message. The details of the card were then automatically sent to their personal e-mail address and they used to siphon the amount from victim’s account. Monika used to contact the user if their OTP was needed for the transaction. Monika told police that earlier she used to work at another similar fraud website 
 
 
