UJJAIN/INDORE:The whole atmosphere around famous Mahakal temple in Ujjain remained soaked in fervor of Mahashivaratri, as the city prepared to wed their Lord to  . Scores of people from faraway places thronged the temple to celebrate the occasion and offer prayer before the Mahakaleshwar Jyotirlinga, which was decorated with flowers and bel leaves. 

 The queue outside the temple extended to three kilometers, as people waited for hours to have a glimpse of Lord Shiva. Waiting for their turn they sang devotional songs and chanted ‘Jai Mahakal’ and ‘Har Har Mahadev’. Devotees offered milk, oil, water, flowers, leaves and fruits to the idol of Lord Shiva, decorated like a groom.
 
 The doors of the temple opened at 1:30am on Thursday night and will close only on Saturday evening. Mahashivaratri is the only festival when the temple’s doors are kept open throughout the night. After the doors of the temple were opened at 1:30am, ‘bhasmaarti’ (morning prayers performed using ash) was done in an elaborate manner.
 
 
 
 
 
 Many celebrities, politicians also visited the temple to offer prayers. Ujjain’s municipal corporation commissioner Ashish Singh, refusing special privileges also stood in the queue, waiting for his turn.
 
 In Indore as well, the celebrations started at dawn and continued throughout Friday night. Three major Shiva temples in the city at Gandhi Hall, Pardeshipura and Devguradia remained packed with devotees throughout the day. Largest procession in the city was taken out in Banganga area of the city. The procession had tableaux of Lord Shiva’s marriage to Goddess Parvati, 12 Jyotirlingas and Lord Shiva abode at Mount Kailash. The procession also saw participation of tribal people. 
 
 At the Gandhi Hall, a special Yoga camp was held by Art of Living community. Rudra Pooja was performed by priest from Bengaluru Swami Paramtej. During the programme, city-based dance troupe led by   performed Shiv Tandav and international ghazal and bhajan singer Godam Dabar gave performance of hymns and also delivered discourse. 
 
 Outside almost all Shiva temples in the city, prasad of bhang, sabudana khichadi and shikanji were distributed to people. At many temples, community lunches were also organised. At the Gutkeshwar Mahadev temple, Devguradia, a three-day Mahashivaratri fair began from Friday. 
 
 
