LUCKNOW: When the   kicks off on Thursday, with three nights of  , UP’s “mahotsava mania” shifts from   –   – to Gorakhpur, present CM Aditya Nath Yogi’s home base, with shift in power in the state last year.

 If the Saifai Mahotasava, organized by a trust in the memory of Samajwadi Party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav’s brother, had top Bollywood stars from Ranveer Singh to Salman Khan and rapper Badshah performing, the   will, for the first time, have Bollywood stars performing, with a special Bhojpuri night thrown in.
 
 The mahotsava, organized by the state government, will have Shankar Mahadevan performing on Thursday night, followed by a “Bhojpuri Night” that will have actor Ravi Kishen performing. Singers Shaan, Lalit Pandit, Bhoomi Trivedi and Anuradha Paudwal and comic artist Jimi Moses.
 
  
  
 
 As preparations are on full swing in Gorakhpur, people recall Saifai Mahotsava celebrations while SP was in power, which had Madhuri Dixit, Salman Khan, Saif Ali Khan, Ranveer Kapoor, Badshah, Ankit Tiwari performing.
 
 
 
 A controversy has erupted over the ‘Nath Yogi’ song to be used at Gorakhpur Mahotsava after Bollywood singer Kailash Kher on Wednesday claimed that he has its original copyright. A Sufi singer Vimal Bhawra, from Ghazipur district, claims to have penned the song, while his son has sung it. 
 
 Mahotsava seeks to promote tourism, culture in Gorakhpur
 
 It also had its share of controversies, with criticism over the extravagance. In 2014, it was criticized for holding a Bollywood night even as victims of the Muzaffarnagar riots of September 2013 were out in the cold in relief camps.
 
 The Gorakhpur Mahotsava website says it “has been designed to encompass a mega trade fair and a variety of activities and events. It includes a children’s festival comprising various academic, sports, and cultural inter school competition. To promote local artists, an opportunity is being given to showcase their talent.”
 
 “The main attractions of this cultural extravaganza are the cultural evenings. The entertainment filled cultural evenings include a Bhojpuri Night and Bollywood Night,” the website adds. “This is the first time this event has been institutionalized. The mahotsava, which will be inaugurated by governor Ram Naik on Thursday, envisages promotion of tourism, ethnic culture, craft and cuisine in Gorakhpur,” said Gorakhpur commissioner Anil Kumar, who is also the chairman of the Mahotsava committee. “There are many firsts to the Mahotsava. Inclusion of sports activities with the help of UP Athletic Association, paramotoring and hot air balloon show and book fair are a few examples,” said Kumar. The festival, which will be inaugurated by Governor Ram Naik, on the Gorakhpur University ground, will conclude at the Gorakhdham Mandir on Saturday in the presence of UP chief minister Adityanath Yogi. An official logo and a website has been launched for the festival, with the image of Gorakhnath Peeth on both.
 
 
