LUCKNOW: BJP's Dalit MP from Agra and chairman of SC/ST Commission, Ram Shankar  , found himself in the middle of a controversy on Monday when another BJP MP from the neighbouring constituency Fatehpur Sikri, Chaudhary Babu Lal, accused him of 'invading' his parliamentary constituency and laying foundation stones of development projects for political gains. An infuriated Babulal said that he would lodge a complaint with BJP chief  . 

 The feud between the two BJP MPs has been brewing since March 26 when Katheria laid the foundation stone for construction of a boundary wall of Agra airport. Babulal said that a major portion of boundary wall falls in his constituency and therefore Katheria had 'no right' to interfere. 
 
  Wo humare kshetra mein kyun aa rahe hain...ye bilkul galat hai (Why is he interfering in my constituency). I will be lodging a complaint with the high command, including party president,'' Chaudhary told TOI on Monday. 
 
 Chaudhary claimed that this was not the first time that Katheria crossed his parliamentary territory. "Earlier also, he (Katheria) laid the foundation stone of a road in my constituency. He should avoid all this,'' Chaudhary warned.
 
 When contacted, Katheria said Chaudhary was unnecessarily raking up controversy. Only a small portion of the boundary wall came in his constituency. We have been striving for the development of the airport since the time when Chaudhary was not an MP,'' he said.
 
 Not surprisingly, the BJP brass was left red faced. The issue needs to examine properly before saying anything on this,'' a senior UP BJP leader said on the condition of anonymity.
 
 The fresh controversy erupted a day after another dalit BJP MP   organized a demonstration accusing the Centre of making attempts to amend constitution and deprive dalits their reservation rights.
 
 Katheria, a prominent dalit leader in the west UP region, has been a key saffron functionary entrusted to mobilize Dalits in favour of the BJP during 2014 Lok Sabha elections. In fact, after PM   stormed to power, Katheria was appointed as junior HRD minister. He was, however, removed from the ministry in June 2016 much to the surprise of his supporters who wanted a centralized role for the dynamic leader. 
 
 He was also one of the contenders for the post of UP BJP chief after   assumed charge of deputy CM after BJP stormed to power in UP with an overwhelming majority in March 2017. Katheria eventually got placated after the Centre appointed him as chairman of SC/ST commission in June 2017.
 
 Chaudhary, 70, who comes from the influential Jat community in the west UP region, has been been a two-time MLA and a former UP minister.
 
 
