NEW DELHI: Concerned over the   of an  , allegedly by her   in Delhi, the   on Tuesday directed   to   two ‘competent’   to   the   and bring her to the premièr medical institute for treatment, if needed.

 Taking a serious view of the horrendous crime committed against the infant, a bench of Chief Justice Dipak Misra and Justices A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud said best medical treatment must be given to her and directed AIIMS to send the doctors forthwith, asking for a report on medical condition on Thursday. The infant is admitted to a hospital in North Delhi.
 
 “We direct that two competent doctors from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) shall go along with special ambulance to the hospital in question and, thereafter, take a decision whether the child can be shifted to AIIMS to have better care and treatment. For the said purpose, we leave it to the two doctors, who are the experts in the field, but the doctors concerned must appreciate the concern expressed by this court,” the bench said.
 
 The court took cognisance of the case after advocate Alakh Alok Srivastava brought to its notice the heinous crime. The matter was mentioned before the bench in the morning and the court agreed to hear the case after lunch and sought assistance of the additional solicitor general. The court also asked secretary or any other person in-charge of Delhi Legal Services Authority to accompany the doctors. 
 
 The apex court also reminded the government of its previous order asking it to make law for stringent punishment in sexual harassment cases against minor girls. “We are disposed to think so as by that age, a child, a glorious gift to mankind, cannot conceive of any kind of carnal desire in man. Once she becomes a victim of such a crime, there is disastrous effect on her mind. The mental agony lasts long. Sorrow and fear haunt forever. There is need to take steps for stopping this kind of child abuse and hence, possibly there is a need for defining the term child in the context of rape and thereafter provide for more severe punishment in respect of the culprits who are involved in this type of crime. In the light of the said decision, we part with the suggestion with the fond hope that Parliament would respond to the agony of the collective, for it really deserves consideration. We say no more on this score,” it said while referring to its earlier order.
 
 The infant was allegedly raped by her 28-year-old cousin in Shakurbasti in northwest Delhi on Sunday. The child had suffered severe injuries to her vital organs and was put on ventilator and she had to undergo several surgeries.
 
 As per the police report, the infant was sexually assaulted after her parents left her to the care of the mother of the accused as they had to go to work. The child stayed on the first floor of the house with her parents while the family of accused lives on the ground floor. Police said the youth took the child to a room on the top floor of the house on the pretext of playing with her and sexually assaulted her. He had gagged the child's mouth so that her cries were inaudible.
 
 The child's mother works as a maid nearby. When she returned home at night, she found the child crying and bleeding from her genitals profusely. She immediately rushed her to the hospital where doctors confirmed sexual assault and informed police. When the youth was questioned, he denied having done anything. But soon after, he fled from the house, which confirmed police's suspicion about his involvement. He was later arrested.
 
