LUCKNOW: A day after the defeat of her party’s candidate in the   polls, BSP chief   scotched the possibility of a rethink over her newly forged alliance with  . She told reporters that the result would not impact the “nazdeeki (closeness)” between SP and BSP and hinted that the two parties could be allies for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. 

 
 “BJP must have celebrated at the prospect of the alliance falling apart. They thought they would have it easy in the Lok Sabha elections in 2019. But this press conference is sure to make them jittery.” She also made it clear that BSP would not contest the Kairana Lok Sabha bypoll, signalling her intent to replicate the twin experiments of Gorakhpur and Phulpur. Her remark came a day after UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath cited the defeat of  , the joint candidate of the SP-BSP combine in the RS polls, to say that Mayawati should realise that she could not trust SP leader and ex-CM Akhilesh Yadav. A jubilant Akhilesh immediately reciprocated with a “thank you” tweet. 
 
 The Dalit leader, in what was arguably the clearest indication of her desire to do business with Akhilesh, absolved the SP leader of any blame for the murderous attack on her by amob of SP workers at the state guesthouse in June 1995. In fact, in a remarkable switch of narrative, she linked the infamous assault to BJP by questioning the appointment of O P Singh, the then police chief of Lucknow, as the DGP. 
 
 “By doing so, did BJP attempt to have me killed and finish the Dalit movement?” she asked. Thanking Mayawati, Akhilesh tweeted: “BJP’s character has been highlighted in the Rajya Sabha election, which is anti-poor and misuses power and money. The conspiracy it hatched to keep a Dalit out of RS has only strengthened the unity between SP and BSP for further elections and for this I thank Mayawatiji.” 
 
 Her absolving Akhilesh of any responsibility for the attack on her by SP supporters in 1995 marks a turning point in Mayawati’s equations with SP. Her bitterness over the assault in which SP workers, enraged by BSP’s withdrawal of support to Mulayam Singh Yadav as CM, had stormed the state guesthouse and had tried to drag her out, led Mayawati to thrice prefer BJP as coalition partner in UP. 
 
 Ironically, it was prominent BJP leader Brahm Dutt Dwivedi who saved her by risking his life. However, even as she said that Akhilesh had nothing to do with the guesthouse attack, Mayawati said that Akhilesh displayed his political inexperience by trusting Independent MLA Raghuraj Pratap Singh, alias Raja Bhaiyya, to help the BSP candidate in the polls on Friday. 
 
 “Akhilesh should not have been caught in Raja Bhaiya’s ‘makar jaal (web of intrigue)’. He should have instead focused on handling the conspiracy that BJP had hatched to drive a wedge between us. He faltered in this. If I was in his place, I would have prioritised the BSP candidate over SP’s,” she said. Mayawati accused BJP of being “Dalit-virodhi (anti-Dalit)” and “gareeb-virodhi (anti-poor)” for fielding an extra candidate despite not having adequate numbers.“BJP misused the government machinery to support a moneyed trader to defeat a candidate who is a Dalit and is poor,” she said.
 
