COIMBATORE: Just like every other day,   (name changed) was spending time with his friends after work at one of their houses on the outskirts of the city. As one of the friends cracked a joke, they broke into laughter. Soon, they were beaten up by another group of men belonging to a different caste. 

 “We did not talk about them, but our happiness seemed to have irritated them,” said the 30-year-old, recalling the incident took place about a year ago.
 
 An atrocity case under the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act was registered, but nothing remained the same for the victims, who were daily wage labourers, after the incident. 
 
 “Nobody was ready to give us work even if we were willing to work for low wages,” he said, explaining that most employers belonged to other communities and they didn’t want to employ a man, who had lodged a complaint against their lot.
 
 Mani’s livelihood was at stake, abruptly for no mistake of him. Shortly after the First Information Report (FIR) was registered, the government issued him Rs 50,000 as an initial amount of relief, with which he started a small vegetable shop. 
 
 “Without the relief fund, we would have moved out of the town in search of a job,” he said. The government issued him another Rs 1 lakh after the chargesheet was filed before the court. With this amount, he is planning to expand his shop.
 
 Under the Act, the relief fund is paid in three instalments. Initially, 25% of the amount is paid after the registration of FIR and then 50% after filing chargesheet in the court. The remaining amount is paid on disposal of the case.
 
 The   and   is about to distribute relief fund worth about Rs 62.25 lakh to all the victims of   at the earliest. The amount is almost double the fund (Rs 34.17 lakh) distributed in the previous year. 
 
 “For the first time, the department has sought additional fund from the state government due to increase in the number of cases at chargesheet stage,” the official said, adding that Rs 2.25 lakh was sought additionally.
 
 About 56 victims, who had lodged cases under the Act since 2016 and whose relief fund had been kept on hold due to insufficient proof, are likely to get the relief amount soon. In 2015-16, fund was distributed to about 54 beneficiaries.
 
 In most cases, police have filed chargesheet in the court. Only 25% cases are at the FIR stage, unlike the previous years when most cases were at FIR stage, the official said. 
 
 
