GORAKHPUR: Chief minister   ordered the suspension of SHO of Itwa police station in   district and   on Monday. The CM also reprimanded district magistrate   during his Siddharthnagar visit over unsatisfactory administration . 

 Acting on a complaint made by a woman, Gita Devi alleging police atrocities, Yogi asked SP Siddharthnagar Dharamveer Singh to suspend the SHO and SI, Itwa. The woman told the CM that her neighbour was not letting her to do some necessary construction. The police, favouring the neighbour, had detained her in the police station for two days and also harassed her, she alleged.
 
 After his address, the CM inspected   village and was irked after seeing Japanese Encephalitis vaccination being done at one spot instead of going door-to-door. Also, the vaccine was being administered by people who were not aware of preventive measures and other details of encephalitis. When the CMO, Ved Prakash Sharma was not able to give a satisfactory reply, the CM suspended him. He also expressed his annoyance with district magistrate Kunal Silku and reprimanded him over the issue.
 
 CM Yogi inaugurated 32 projects of Rs 52 crore in Siddharthnagar and also started 'School Chalo' campaign and warned police and administrative officials to not harass farmers. He also asked brick kiln owners to lower the prices of bricks and raise two calves at their kiln.
 
 Meanwhile, urging parents and guardians to assure vaccination of children to give them a healthy life, the CM said, "Last year 92 lakh children were vaccinated and 1.54 crore children took admission in school. It is important to educate people to end backwardness of the district. To improve the condition of basic education, NCERT curriculum will be applied in primary schools."
 
 
 Chief minister Yogi Adityanath launched ‘Dastak’ and ‘School Chalo’ campaigns and inaugurated 13 projects at Pipraich in Gorakhpur on Monday. During his address at the launch of Dastak, Yogi said that there will be no dearth of funds for treatment and vaccination to end encephalitis from the region but maintaining cleanliness is a must to prevent the disease and village heads and gram panchayats should ensure cleanliness in their areas. “We need to follow PM Modi’s cleanliness programme to make a healthy and clean India. After cleanliness, the other thing required for encephalitis prevention is potable water. The village heads have the funds to repair hand pumps and to install new ones.” Yogi said, “Dastak is a campaign against encephalitis. The districts under Gorakhpur and Basti zones are most affected. The children of this area also have the right to live? I believe that whosoever takes birth has the right to live and you all need to co-operate with the government. The campaign will run for 15 days across the state.”
 
 
 
