Phagwara/Jalandhar: Seven persons were killed in two separate accidents in Jalandhar and Phagwara on Sunday. Two youths were killed in Phagwara on the national highway when they were run over by a tipper. In another accident, five others were killed and eight others were injured in a collision involving three vehicles on Jalandhar-Nakodar road on Sunday evening.

 Two friends – Manak Kumar, 18, and Ishu Singh, 20, both residents of Jalandhar — were returning to Jalandhar from Ludhiana in the morning when a tipper hit their bike near Chachoki village. Both died on the spot. Police sources said the accident apparently happened as the driver of the speeding cargo vehicle failed to see the bike because of fog. The tipper driver fled from the accident spot. It is learnt that both the youths were returning from Ludhiana after attending a party on Saturday night. The accident took place around 9am.
 
 In the second accident, a tanker carrying milk coming towards Jalandhar hit two vehicles including an auto and five persons including the auto driver and four passengers in it were killed. Eight other persons sustained serious injuries.
 
 It is learnt that the tanker first hit a pick up vehicle and then went out of control and hit an auto rickshaw head on which was going from Khambra to village Lambra. The auto was badly smashed by the tanker and was even dragged to a few feet. While three persons in the auto including its driver Raman and two passengers Mohinder,23, and Dharam Devi,32, were killed on the spot. The ten injured from the two vehicles were rushed to Civil Hospitals but two of them Dalip Singh, 40, and a three years old daughter of Dharam Devi succumbed to their injuries in the hospital. The deceased and injured in the auto were related to each other and were living in their huts on the outskirts of village Lambra.
 
 ASI Narinder Rall, investigating officer in the case, said that the tanker first hit the pick up vehicle and then hit the auto which was going on on the extreme left.
 
 
