It was the 20th minute of the 2015 Copa America final and Sergio Aguero could barely believe that   blocked his header from point-blank range with swift reflexes. The Chile goalkeeper continued to frustrate the Argentineans for the next two hours before denying Ever Banega in the penalty shootout to help his country win their first ever trophy.

 
 
 
 A year on, it was Bravo again who saved Argentinean Lucas Biglia’s penalty in the Copa America Centenario final and gave Chile their second title in as many years. The 35-year-old custodian rose to the occasion once more for his country last year when he stopped three Portugal shots in the penalty shootout of the Confederations Cup semi-finals before going down to Germany in the final.
 
 In a Chile team, which boasts of tremendous firepower upfront and a resilient defence, Bravo’s contributions often go under the radar. But the country’s golden generation would still be in search of their first crown if it weren’t for him. The goalkeeper’s expertise in penalty shootouts has been integral to Chile’s narrative of beating the opponents on penalties after playing out goalless draws in regulation time.
 
 So with two Copa America titles and a runners-up finish in Confederations Cup in the space of three years, it would have seemed that the South American nation, whose best finish in a World Cup was a third place at home back in 1962, was finally ready to pose a threat to the footballing superpowers. 
 
 But Chile brought about their own undoing with a farcical World Cup qualification campaign. Needing only four points from their last four matches, the Juan Antonio Pizzi-coached side botched it up by managing just a single win.
 
 Given their lack of success at World Cups, their failure to make it to Russia might not be considered as big a tragedy as that of four-time champions Italy or three-time finalists Netherlands. But the team’s collective failure means that the chances of their ageing stars quite a few of them are in their late 20s and early 30s — making amends for their average fare in the last two World Cups have evaporated into thin air.
 
 At 35, Bravo has clearly entered the twilight of his career while the other core players like   (29 years),   (30) and Gary Medel (30) are not getting any younger. While there still might be a chance at redemption for others come 2022 World Cup in Qatar, it might be a bridge too far for Bravo given that he is no longer first choice at his club Manchester City. 
 
 Bravo, who has been Chile’s backbone ensuring that the country’s golden generation didn’t go to waste, might have slipped a bit in recent times, but will be remembered as a world-class goalkeeper when all is said and done.
 
 
