NOIDA: A 20-year-old woman missed an exam for a job with the   because she was left bruised and battered by the family members of a local youth who was allegedly stalking her for two years.

 The woman’s assailant is  , a neighbour who is the same age as her. Her father said a land dispute between the two families had added to the undercurrent of tension between them.
 
 On December 14 last year, the woman and her family, residents of Noida’s Morna village, had decided to go the police to put an end to the harassment she was facing, but they returned without filing a complaint because other villagers “discouraged” them. The retaliation came two weeks later.
 
 On December 31, Rohit’s parents allegedly first attacked the woman’s mother with a stick, leaving her with a fractured right arm. When she came to her mother’s aid, they turned on her. When she spoke to TOI on Thursday at her home, her face was bruised and swollen. 
 
 “He (Rohit) would pass comments directly or indirectly whenever I stepped out for college. A few months back, I asked him not to call me ever. After that, I broke my SIM card,” she said.
 
 Her father said Rohit’s parents were unhappy about him buying a plot opposite their house and building his own house there. 
 
 “They might have been eying the land but we had asked them before buying it. We have only one daughter. She was doing a course in communications from a private college in Delhi’s Karol Bagh but had to stop after her mother’s health failed (she has only one kidney). She was preparing for an RBI exam to be held in Agra on January 6,” he said.
 
 Rohit’s parents, he added, had overheard his daughter loudly complaining about his misbehavior on December 13, the day before they decided to go the cops. “Vinod and Babita (Rohit’s parents) and   and Mukesh (his uncle and aunt) almost started beating us when a relative arrived and saved us. The next day, when my wife went out for a morning walk, Aditya told her to keep her mouth shut. We went to the Sector 24 police station. But there was immense pressure from the villagers and we decided not to complain,” he said.
 
 Then, on the evening of December 31, Babita and Mukesh allegedly attacked his wife when she was alone in the house. “When my daughter returned from the market, she was beaten up too,” he said. The beating stopped when neighbours gathered there.
 
 Police subsequently filed a case for “breach of peace” under Section 151 of the Criminal Procedure Code and sent the family to the office of the city magistrate. The next day, when they went back to lodge an FIR, the cops allegedly pressured them to work out a compromise. “We then went to the SSP on January 3. He ordered an FIR to be registered,” the woman’s father said 
 
 The case was filed under sections 147 and 148 (rioting), 452 (trespassing), 323 (causing hurt), 352 (assault) and 506 (criminal intimidation) against  , their sons Rohit and Shiv Kumar, Vinod’s father Rajkumar, Adarsh and Mukesh.
 
 Akhilesh Tripathi, the Sector 24 SHO, said the accused had also lodged a counter complaint. “It is wrong to say that we did not take cognisance of the matter. We got medical tests done of both parties involved,” he said.
 
 
