LUCKNOW: Two months after the UP secretariat annexe was painted saffron, the   office’s boundary wall got a liberal coat of the same colour.

 On Friday, commuters on Lucknow’s   were caught by surprise to see the wall of the   Committee in ‘bhagwa’ (saffron) instead of the traditional white.
 
 Though the structure is owned by the UP estate department, which maintains all government buildings, it was the management of the State Haj Committee which got the boundary wall repainted.Even as there were strong reactions over the move, UP’s junior minister for Haj and Waqf, Mohsin Raza — the only Muslim in the council — told TOI that saffron was a “natural colour” and didn’t belong to any party or individual.
 
 
 
 
 Each morning begins with this colour at sunrise. It’s a colour of energy (yeh rang ek urja ka sanchar hai). It doesn’t belong to anyone,” said Raza. Further, he said, people who dislike saffron may tomorrow want the colour removed from the Tricolour as well. “Saffron colour also protects the building from getting dirty,” he said.
 
 The move evoked sharp political responses. Samajwadi Party spokesperson   termed it blatant misuse of power.
 
 “Vikas karne se rang badalta hai...rang badalne se vikas nahi hota (development leads to change of colour not vice-versa),” he said. Chaudhary accused the   government of imposing a colour which symbolizes its political ideology of Hindutva.
 
 Congress’s Ammar Rizvi said this was “sycophancy of the highest order” from Haj Committee officials. “They just want to please their political masters,’’ he said.
 
 Haj Committee secretary R P Singh said that idea was to paint the building in accordance with other government buildings in the vicinity like Bapu Bhawan, Vidhan Bhawan and  .
 
 “It seems an overzealous worker painted the boundary wall in saffron color,” Singh said, adding that committee building will remain white. UP estate officer Yogesh Shukla confirmed that the department was not consulted for painting the wall. “Nevertheless, the department cannot stop anyone if someone tries to maintain a government property,’’ he said.
 
 After assuming office in March 2017, the BJP ordered painting of state roadways buses saffron. Soon, the energy department painted electricity poles in unauthorized colonies saffron. The saffron frenzy has spread to the education department where 80 of the 1,230 primary schools in Pilibhit district got painted saffron.
 
 
