PUNE: City-based environmentalists and NGOs have slammed the Centre’s   ( ) draft. They said it mentioned few essential pollution control measures and set no targets.

 The NCAP, a concept note from the ministry of environment, forests, and climate change (MoEFCC), is open for public comments till Thursday (envfor.nic.in). Most of the concept note is based on the   (NAMP), which will use a new and augmented National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS).
 
 
  
 The NAMP plans to augment and increase the air quality monitoring stations all over India, especially in rural areas, and increase the number of Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Stations (CAAQS) in high-density population areas. Further innovations like real-time monitoring and public access to the readings have also been proposed.
 
 Activists have questioned the rationale of gathering the vast data, while “very little” actual pollution control measures proposed.
 
 “They need to act on the data and reduce air pollution. There is very little of that mentioned in the NCAP,” Sujit Patwardhan, founder and trustee of  , said. 
 
 Parisar had recently organised a summit of stakeholders and experts on the NCAP in the city, and sent in a number of recommendations to the Centre.
 
 “Public transportation is weak in the city, people depend on personal vehicles for commuting. The PMC and other civic authorities have responded by widening roads and building more flyovers. That approach will imply trees will be cut down and pollution will increase,” he said.
 
 Other NGOs, like Nagrik Chetana Manch (NCM), sent public comments to the Centre, saying that very little will be achieved if targets, a time line, and a large budget are not set, and even the number of monitoring stations proposed is too inadequate.
 
 “ The draft plan has no enforceable time line for emission targets to be met. The budget is too small and there is no clarity on the entities that will provide the funds. It should be like JNNURM which had a fixed time line and clear budgets. Besides, the new number proposed for air quality monitoring stations is still too less. Only 50 new ones will come up in rural areas,” Qaneez Sukhrani, the secretary of the NCM, said.
 
 The manch noted that there are no emission reduction targets in the draft document, and that cities with vast population differences will have the same number of monitoring stations.
 
 “Little has been done to empower state pollution control boards. For garbage burning, the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board can only charge a fine. Every year, a grim picture is revealed in the environment status reports of the  ,” Sukhrani added.
 
 
