Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has swung into action to implement plastic ban strictly. The Maharashtra plastic and thermocol products (manufacture, usage, sale, transport, handling and storage) notification, 2018, came into force from March 23. “From Saturday, the NMC’s nuisance detection squad swung into action in all the 10 zones and has started taking action against the shopkeepers as well as vendors selling banned plastic products,” said municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal. On the very first day, the squad penalized three vendors for keeping banned plastic bags and collected Rs600 fine from them. In the meantime, Manish Jain, one of the manufacturers of plastic products, said Vidarbha Plastic Industries Association is planning to approach high court against the ban. “We will be forming a committee to prepare a proposal to set up a recyclable plant in the city. Under the buy-back component of the notification, we will collect plastic wastes and recycle. Besides seeking permission to set up the industry from Maharashtra Pollution Control Board, we will also submit an affidavit to the government,” said Jain. Apart from the 45-member team of the nuisance detection squad, the NMC will also rope in 8,000-odd sanitary workers for affective implementation of the ban, said a senior official from NMC’s health department (solid waste management). The officer said at first, they will emphasize on education and creating awareness among roadside vendors and shopkeepers in the next coming days. “Thereafter, we will undertake drive against those using banned products. The action may start from next month,” the officer said, adding, “The drive will begin at municipal markets and will be extended to shopkeepers and vendors later.” Mentioning the notification, the officer said the NMC will be keen to work with self-help groups, NGOs, and others to effectively implement the new rule. “Adequate awareness programmes about stoppage of plastic and alternatives should work,” said the official. The NMC will prepare a road map in association with NGOs and SHGs to offer alternatives to the banned products. The complete ban on plastic products, however, has evoked mixed reactions from garbage managers, citizens, shopkeepers and manufacturers. The widespread use of plastic products, combined with entrenched consumer habits, makes it difficult to outlaw it totally. “This is a good beginning, but it (ban) should be executed properly, unlike the below 50-microns ban which failed due to inadequate efforts by the civic body,” said green activists. Kaustav Chatterjee, environmental activist and founder of city-based NGO Green Vigil Foundation, said, “Easy to say, but difficult to implement. It is a blanket ban on plastic and thermocol except PET/ PETE bottles and milk pouches.” “It will be an uphill task for the local government to implement the ban in a month as alternative to plastic is not available at the moment,” he said. Chatterjee said installation of recycling plants by manufacturers will be highly costly affair. “NGOs can contribute significantly in helping NMC create awareness about the said notification and establish buy-back mechanism, collection and recycling system,” he said. However, he said that the notification has no mention of penalties for the defaulters, which unless specified, implementation will not be possible. Poor civic sense and lack of cooperation from citizens in matters of hygiene is one of the biggest hurdles to implement the notification. “People should cooperate with authorities, but the problem is that educated people, who are the biggest consumers, are irresponsible in waste disposal and punishment is important as a means of deterrence,” said Annu Chhabrani of Swachch Association.