NOIDA: A 30-year-old woman being questioned at Sector 49 police station in connection with a case of theft died after she sought to go to the bathroom and allegedly consumed a bottle of phenyl or acid kept there. The woman, Kavita, who was of Nepali origin, was rushed to a private hospital nearby and subsequently referred to a higher health facility when her condition deteriorated. She was declared dead on arrival.

 Kavita’s family members alleged she had been “tortured” and “beaten up” by the investigators, a charge the police refuted. Noida SP (city) Arun Kumar Singh said Kavita’s husband Sattan had been arrested in connection with a Rs 20 lakh theft at a guest house and she had come to the police station to meet him. “The woman had come to the police station to meet her husband. She consumed some poisonous substance, which caused her death. We have launched an investigation into the matter,” he added.
 
 Police have not confirmed the “poisonous substance” that Kavita consumed. 
 
 Her body has been sent for autopsy.
 
 Sources said Sattan and Kavita had been picked up by a police team probing a theft at a guest house in Sector 51 on April 17. According to the case diary, a Sangeet programme had been organised in the guest house on that day. When the guests retired to their respective rooms later in the night, they found jewellery worth Rs 20 lakh, Rs 75,000 in cash, and a mobile phone missing from two rooms.
 
 Police claimed to have traced the location of the stolen mobile phone to Sattan’s house and arrested him from there. Some officers said Sattan had told them the jewellery was with his wife Kavita, following which, she, too, was detained for questioning. 
 
 “They dragged my mother to the police station. I did not know anything,” said Manisha, the couple’s daughter.
 
 Police said they had found the stolen jewellery and the mobile phone from Sattan’s and Kavita’s home. The couple, however, pleaded innocence, saying somebody had planted the stolen items at their place without their knowledge. Sattan, originally from Pilakhua in Hapur, lived with his wife Kavita and two children – Manisha (4) and Nishank (3), in Hoshiyarpur village. Sattan worked as a driver while Kavita was a maid in a private school.
 
 According to sources in the police station, Kavita sought to go to the bathroom when she was being questioned. After she came out, a woman constable noticed “a change in her behaviour” and informed her seniors.
 
 The woman was rushed to Samvedana Hospital in Sector 48, and subsequently to  , where she was declared brought dead on Tuesday.
 
 Kavita’s relatives alleged the police had thrashed the couple severely to make them confess the crime they had allegedly not committed. “They were beaten up in front of each other. Kavita broke down and got scared. I had gone the police station on Sunday evening but I was not allowed to meet them,” a relative said.
 
 He alleged that Ashok, a sub-inspector, had even demanded a Rs 50,000 bribe to release them. Police have denied the charge.
 
 Although Sattan secured a bail on “humanitarian grounds”, his relatives and neighbours gathered outside the police station and protested against Kavita’s death. They left after being assured of a speedy investigation.
 
 
