JAIPUR: In a rare case,   pregnant woman gave birth to a healthy baby when she was at ventilator support through caesarean section at a private hospital in the city. Now, the healthy woman and her infant were discharged from the hospital on Tuesday. 

 It is a rare case where doctors had decided to take out the baby prematurely. They also provided separate treatment to the mother and the infant.
 
 When the infant was born, his heart was pumping but there was no respiration. The doctors immediately incubated the child and put him on ventilator. He was moved from womb to ventilator support, preventing any chances of transmission of infection from infected mother to the baby. 
 
 A 30-year-old woman was brought to the hospital from Kota on April 17 with bilateral pneumonia. But, when doctors conducted her tests, she was tested positive for swine flu. Her life was at risk as she was eight month pregnant. “In such cases, we have seen that one of the two — mother or infant survives. But, in this case, both mother and her infant has survived,” said Dr  , senior consultant (pulmonologist) of a private hospital. 
 
 Since, her condition was critical, the doctors provided her ventilator support. It is quite rare when a woman gives birth to a baby on ventilator support. It was a challenging task for the doctors to save life of mother and her infant. “Pregnant women with swine flu has less oxygen in their blood, which is why, there are higher chances of still births. But, in this case, when we noticed that oxygen supply in blood of the woman is going down, we immediately put her on ventilator support on April 20. Within few hours, we decided to help her giving birth to the baby even before the lack of oxygen supply affect the baby in the womb,” Dr Sharma said. 
 
 Doctors claimed that if they had waited for some more hours, lack of oxygen supply would have become risky for infant’s life. 
 
 The doctors provided her anti-flu and anti-biotic medicines for providing her treatment. The doctors also pointed out that timely treatment to pregnant woman with swine flu is helpful in saving her and her infant’s life. 
 
 According to medical and health department officials, swine flu infected pregnant woman comes in a high risk category, which has higher chances of mortality in comparison to other normal patients with swine flu. 
 
 Dr Sharma said that they have seen a lot many cases in the hospital in which the doctors are able to save life of either of woman or her infant. 
 
 Director paediatrics and neonatology of the hospital, Dr SD Sharma said, “The infant was born with just 1.9kg. He was underweight. He was hypoxic. His heart was working but he was not breathing. We immediately resuscitated the infant and put him on ventilator support. Now, the child is healthy and he has been discharged from the hospital.”
 
 The hospital claimed that there is no immediate complication now. But, still they will keep monitoring health of the infant. 
 
 
