For 2018, the government has set a clear agenda to improve the functioning of the Goa police. The list is long but not unrealistic—a dedicated tourist police force, improved infrastructure, better traffic management, training personnel in counter terrorism operations and passing of the Goa Police Bill. Funds have even been allocated for this modernisation move.

 
 Director general of police (DGP)   told   there is an urgent need for the traffic sentinel scheme to be automated so that the whole process, including payment, can be done online. He added that automatic red light-jumping cameras too are needed to crack down on violators. Also, all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) would improve beach security, he said.
 
 Crimes are becoming more sophisticated with the state recording an increase in cybercrime. To tackle this the state police needs to upgrade its software and hardware.   said police require drones to conduct surveillance during anti-terror operations. Laptops for police will go a long way in improving the system as they can upload details of the crime on the Crime and   (CCTNS) from the spot, Chander said.
 
 Former DGP T N   told TOI that Goa police should train more people to tackle cybercrime and economic offences effectively. At present, there are very few people with the expertise to conduct investigations into economic offences and Goa police have to rely on them.
 
 To tackle the drug menace in Goa, the police needs to stay one step ahead. Chander said that the   requires drug detection equipment to test substances on the spot.
 
 Mohan told TOI that more funds should be allocated to focus on the modernisation of Goa police force, including training and infrastructure. He added that the training infrastructure in the state is very poor and the need of the hour is upgradation of police investigation capability by providing modern training and the latest equipment.
 
 
 Goa is a major tourist destination and lakhs of domestic as well as international tourists frequent the state, Mohan said. There is a need for a dedicated tourist police force to assist visitors and ensure they are not harassed and cheated during their holiday. He added that till date Goa police have not focused on a tourist police force. “There should be some investment in tourist police training so that travellers take a good image of Goa internationally,” Mohan said.
 
 
 He also said that there is an urgent need to purchase better technology like cameras and electronic devices and for that “there is a need for political will”.
 
 
 When it comes to traffic, the former DGP said that Goa police need to put up more traffic signals. Current statistics show that there is one road death every 30 hours. “We must invest in traffic management and reduce accidents,” he said.
 
 
 Mohan added that the anti-terrorist squad and coastal police should be upgraded so that Goa police are ready to take on any eventuality. He also said that there is urgent need to improve the infrastructure at coastal police stations.
 
 
 The Goa Police Bill is another longpending issue. Mohan said the Goa government should re-examine the bill and immediately pass it in the assembly and thereafter frame rules so that the Goa police can function effectively.
 
