Madurai: Stage-South Tamil Nadu Advisory Group for Empowerment was launched in Madurai on Tuesday, in a move to showcase and market Madurai’s potential for industrial development in next year’s Global Investors Meet (GIM) and bring more industries to the region. Organised by the Consortium for Technology Research Entrepreneurship and Empowerment (ConsoTree) and Software Industries Development Association (SIDA), the initiative aims at bringing in all the sectors in Madurai, to meet this target. Madurai district collector K Veera Raghava Rao, who launched the initiative with the Madurai North MLA V V Rajan Chellappa, said that Madurai’s potential had not been marketed till now. “Madurai is the only city that has thrived for over thousands of years with a rich cultural heritage and it was time to tap the potential areas of industrial development like warehousing, as this was an agrarian belt and hub for all the southern districts,” he said. The government had many schemes, but it was for the individuals to take advantage and push for industrial development in the region and there was wide scope for expansion, he said. Rajan Chellappa said that all steps would be taken by the government to showcase Madurai’s potential through the government. Speaking at the event, Dr S Rajamohan, Chairman of CII, Madurai zone said that a GDP of 10 % can never be achieved without developing the small industries which is the main source of job creation and a must for growth and development. Madurai and south Tamil Nadu had lagged behind in industrial development due to lack of infrastructure. But, now with many steps being taken, it was time to move forward but there should also be retention of industries like the fireworks in Sivakasi and hosiery industry in Tirupur, for a holistic development, said president of TN Chamber of Commerce and Industry N Jegatheesan. There are over 17,000 small and medium industries which could help in the industrial development in Madurai and the southern districts in a big way. This potential should be tapped said Maditssia president K P Murugan. Founder of ConsoTree R Raj Satyan said that Stage would showcase the potential of Madurai and the other southern districts for overall industrial development of the region. It will help to make our presence felt at the GIM and provide better opportunities to the youth and the local work force will benefit the industries.  SIDA president R K Jeyabalan said that Madurai had about 150 software industries employing over 8,000 persons and government should also consider making allocations in the IT sector for this region. 