PATNA: RJD chief   launched a scathing attack on BJP through his Twitter account on Monday, saying had he been a thief, BJP would have embraced him.

 In another tweet,   said he would send his message through people visiting him in jail, which would be later posted on his Twitter handle. Lalu’s official Twitter handle is being managed by his office in consultation with his family members ever since he was sent to Birsa Munda Central Jail in Ranchi on December 23 following his conviction in a fodder scam case pertaining to fraudulent withdrawal of Rs 89.27 lakh from Deoghar treasury 21 years ago.
 
 “Lalu chor hota toh jail nahi, BJP mein hota,” the RJD chief tweeted on Monday. Political observers said apart from targeting BJP, Lalu also cornered   CM  , who is running the NDA government in alliance with the saffron party, through his tweet. 
 
 Lalu apparently has the highest number of followers on Twitter among politicians in Bihar followed by CM Nitish and his deputy Sushil Kumar Modi. Incidentally, Lalu crossed the mark of 30 lakh followers in November last year, which is more than that of Nitish (20,63,000) and Sushil Kumar Modi (1,25,000). Lalu had joined Twitter on January 15, 2014, Nitish in May 2010 and Modi in May 2011.
 
 As on Monday, Lalu’s followers on Twitter stood at 37.90 lakh, far ahead than followers of other prominent political figures in Bihar like Union ministers Ram Vilas Paswan (2.45 lakh), Giriraj Singh (7.68 lakh) and actor-turned-politician   (2.33 lakh). The closest to Lalu is Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad (23.77 lakh followers).
 
 Lalu apart, his younger son and leader of Opposition in state Assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav also utilises the micro blogging site for frequently attacking BJP and CM Nitish. Tejashwi has 7.81 lakh followers on Twitter.
 
 “Raajneeti mein sabse zyada palti marne ka award milta toh kise milta,” Tejashwi tweeted on Monday in a veiled attack on Nitish, who parted ways with Grand Alliance and returned to the NDA fold last year. 
 
 
