Everytime a mechanic in the Milwaukee facility of Harley Davidson assembles a bike, a little of Kovai is added to it. Be it the rumbling ride in the US or elsewhere in Europe, 400 grams of electro mechanical mass— horns— made by Roots Industries India in Coimbatore—is fitted in automobiles across the world.

 K Ramasamy was only eight years old when he noticed his father change the horn of his Premier car and replace it with a Bosch electric horn. When he asked why he was fitting a German horn to the car, his father's response got him thinking. "He told me that Indian horns were not durable and that he did not have time to rush to the mechanic frequently. That is when I decided that I would manufacture electric horns exactly like Bosch so that Indian cars could use Indian horns," Ramasamy says. The dream became a reality, exactly 34 years later, in 1982.
 
 Ramasamy, chairman of The Roots Group of Companies, is the largest player in the replacement market for horns in India. Horns made by Roots at its units located in Thudiyalur finds its place in each of the Harley Davidson motorcycles. 
 
 "As a child, I was fascinated by automobiles and began collecting horns since the age of eight," he reminisces. "I came back to India in 1970 with a dream to manufacture electric horns exactly like the ones Bosch made," he says. Roots has become the eleventh largest auto horn manufacturer in the world now. But the journey was not an easy one. As per Indian standards, the horn should be one second on and three seconds off and complete 1 lakh cycles. "But all the horns that I bought did not last more than 20,000 cycles. I wanted to make the best ones and pushed hard by setting a target to make horns that will be two seconds on and two seconds off and complete 2 lakh cycles," he says. "I started the development and tested them but the horns did not last even 15,000 cycles. Either the diaphragm steel or the contact point would break," he says. That is when he realised that it was not the technology but the raw material that was not as per standards. In the 1970s he wrote to various companies and sought raw materials from them. Having understood that the manufacture of horns will take some time, he developed various other products in the meantime to sustain his business. He started a company named American Auto Service in the same premises at Ganapthy. He sold tractors, developed a new product called ‘Neokool’ to cool down radiators, developed air horns with an electric switch and made power brakes in 1974. It was finally in 1982 that he developed the electric horn exactly according to his expectations.
 
 Roots collaborated with Bosch and manufactured 100% of their horn requirements. Slowly, they entered the US, UK and more than 15 other countries with big brands such as Ford, Toyota, BMW, Nissan, Volkswagen, Renault, Navistar trucks, Harley Davidson and Ducati as customers—all using horns manufactured at Roots. The company has even set up plants in Iran, Malaysia and Russia. So what keeps him going? "I just love automobiles, its parts and innovation is my passion. We can manufacture anything if we put our mind to it," he says with a smile.
 
 
