KANYAKUMARI: For the second time in as many months, police have denied permission for a major protest planned to be organised against the proposed Rs 19,884 crore international container transhipment terminal (ICTT) at   in Kanyakumari district. The protest, organised by the DMK, its allies and the public was to take place in front of the district collectorate in Nagercoil on May 19 (Saturday).

 Police tried to handover the denial of permission notice to Nagercoil MLA N Suresh Rajan at his residence in   on Thursday afternoon, as he had sought permission for the protest. However, as the MLA refused to receive the three-page notice, it was pasted on the gate of his house.
 
 The notice stated that the organisers had failed to provide the right replies or gave incomplete replies to the queries raised by the police. Police also listed out 16 cases registered across the district for protests seeking relief for the victims of Cyclone Ockhi victims and against the proposed ICTT organised from December 2017 without prior notice.
 
 They said that these protests affects the public and added that there is a possibility of people working against the growth of the nation taking part in it on May 19. The notice also suggested the organisers to protest in another location. Citing possible law and order problems that could arise and cause inconveniences to the public as reason for denial of permission for the protest at the collectorate, a statement from the district police has appealed to the people not to take part in the protest. Police warned that those taking part in the protest will be arrested and legal action taken.
 
 Three weeks ago, DMK and   MLAs in the district made a representation to the collector and superintendent of police seeking permission for the protest. Based on the same, police sent a questionnaire seeking answers for 13 questions from the organisers.
 
 “The questions included the names of the key speakers, number of people who will come for the protest, number of vehicles in which they would come, the number of speaker boxes to be used during the protest and arrangements such as ambulance and toilets. We got the questions on May 5 and gave our replies on May 6,” a key organiser of the Kanyakumari International Container Transhipment Terminal Struggle Committee, R S   said. He told TOI that they had not invited any key speakers and that those who would be on stage would be the MLAs of the district and functionaries of the DMK, Congress, Indian Union Muslim League, Dravidar Kazhagam and Communist parties. However, DMK said that the protest will be organised as planned on Saturday.
 
 
