LUCKNOW: The number of tourists who visited UP in 2017 was more than the state’s massive population. According to the data for  , more than 23.7 crore   tourists visited different places in UP in 2017. This is more than the state’s estimated population of 22.7 crore.

 The report also showed that the total tourist footfall in the state has gone up by about 9% over the previous year. While Allahabad was the most visited place by domestic tourists, Agra saw the highest footfall of foreign tourists. Director general of UP Tourism Awanish Awasthi is, however, not impressed.
 
 
  
 “The numbers are fine but states like Goa, Jammu & Kashmir and Kerala are way ahead of us,” he said. UP’s position in the national scenario suggests that the state has miles to go.
 
 In 2016, India saw movement of 161.3 crore domestic tourists. In this, Karnataka accounted for 21% followed by UP with 13% share. Likewise, 2.4 crore foreigners visited India in 2016, of whom 19% went to   by 18.9% to Maharashtra and 12% to UP.
 
 
 “What UP needs to see is the gap between itself and states like Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra which have scored better,” remarked Prateek Hira, who represents the tour operators’ body at national and state levels.
 
 According to Awasthi, “A structure is being given to the state’s tourism sector through initiatives like a formal policy rolled out during the UP Investors’ Summit. It aims at drawing investment and creating attraction and destinations by adding value through options like theme, adventure, and balloon or caravan tourism. We are also focusing on a number of things for foreign tourists who bring the swing factor in the tourism economy.”
 
 Targets have been fixed in UP’s tourism policy to take chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s push to tourism sector forward. The first goal is to make UP the most preferred tourist destination in the country by 2023 while the second is to promote the state as a leading MICE destination. MICE stands for meetings, incentives, conferences and exhibitions and is a type of tourism in which large groups are arranged to visit a place for such a purpose. This can be achieved only by increasing tourist footfall and the benchmark for this is to achieve an annual increase of 15% in domestic and 10% in   arrivals consistently over the next five years.
 
