Barely two days before the announcement of the budget, Minister of Food Processing   and former Deputy CM of Punjab Sukhbir Singh Badal hosted a lunch for their politician friends at their residence. It was one of those rare gatherings where everyone was on time. One of the major highlights of this lunch was an impromptu cake cutting ceremony as it happened to be the birthday of MoS (Independent Charge) Youth Affairs and Sports  .

 
 
  
  BIRTHDAY BONDING:   offers cake to birthday boy Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore 
 
 
 
 
 After spending almost an hour with the   and other ministers, Rajyavardhan headed to his office to celebrate birthday with his staff. So, no birthday plans? Rajyavardhan replied, "I am working today, so no special plans as such. But I'll have lunch with my staff and I'll meet people from my constituency who have come to Delhi to meet me." While Rajyavardhan was one of the first ones to leave, Minister of Home Affairs Rajnath Singh and Minister of Finance   spent most of their afternoon at the Badals' residence. The budget might be the only topic of discussion at most social gatherings these days, but not at this lunch. Later,   too joined Jaitley for a chat over chaat and coffee.
 
 
  
  CHAAT PE CHARCHA: Cutting across party lines, Arun Jaitley and Shashi Tharoor chat over chaat
 
 
 
 It was a large gathering with many ministers enjoying the specially-prepared lunch. Harsimrat Kaur’s staff members told us, "Hum log Punjabi hain. Punjabiyon ko khane aur khilane ka bahut shauk hota hai, Madam (Harsimrat) se doosre ministers poochhte rehte hain ki kab bula rahi ho khane pe, toh sabko aaj ek saath bula liya." 
 
 
  
  Gen (retd) VK Singh
 Ravi Shankar Prasad
 
  
  Babul Supriyo with Rachna and daughter Naina 
 
  
    with Anuradha Prasad
 
 
  
  Maneka Gandhi
 
 
 This event is organised every year and the reason behind keeping it closer to the budget was to make it possible for most of the invitees to attend. The invite for the afternoon read, 'Makki Di Roti and Sarson Da Saag', but there were many more items on the platter. And to maintain the authenticity of the cuisine, caterers from Patiala were invited to prepare the food. Jolly Sidhu, the caterer for the afternoon, told us, "We came from Patiala to prepare Punjabi cuisine for the guests. Dilli ke paani mein mithas nahi hai, toh khaane mein woh baat kaise hogi? Isliye hum Punjab se paani bhi saath laye hain." 
 
 
  
  ALL SMILES:   and Sukhbir Singh Badal share a hug
 
  
  Manjinder S Sirsa and Parvesh Sahib Singh
 
 
 
 The chefs also told us that they got great reviews. If Rajnath Singh loved the makki di roti and sarson da saag, then Arun Jaitley liked the kulche, while Shashi Tharoor asked for multiple servings of the chaat. Jolly Sidhu said, "Shashi Tharoor didn’t eat anything after tasting the chaat, he had two plates of it." Rajiv Pratap Rudy, who was among the latecomers, was also spotted at the chaat stall. Besides, a number of guests told us that the Amritsari kulcha at this lunch was the best they'd ever had! Minister of Women and Child Development Maneka Gandhi, who spent most of her time chatting with Harsimrat Kaur’s daughters, summed up the lunch in just one word – "delicious".
 
 
  
  Piyush Goyal
 
 
  
  Anurag Thakur
 
 
 
  
  Gurleen Kaur and Harkirat Kaur
  
  Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore 
 
 
  
  
 Ravi Shankar Prasad
 
  
  Alphons Kannanthanam
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
