HYDERABAD: Cyberabad and Rachakonda police are struggling to solve murder of an eight-month pregnant woman and a five-month old baby respectively as they have no definite leads. Similarly, Hyderabad police are yet to get a breakthrough in a 2010  .

 In Greater Hyderabad, 150-200 murders, on an average, were recorded per annum for the past three years. In most cases, where the victim’s identity was established, police could crack the case, but the 2010 murder case still remains unsolved.
 
 
  
  
 
 In 2010, the body of a young woman was stuffed in a suitcase and disposed of at the busy Mehdipatnam bus stop in broad daylight, resembling the modus operandi of renegade Maoist Nayeem, who was subsequently killed in an alleged encounter.
 
 Around 1:30pm on August 3, 2010, a white   car stopped at the crowded Mehdipatnam bus stop. Two burqa-clad women and a man disembarked from the car. The man pulled out a fern green suitcase of Legancy brand and left it in front of the bus shelter.
 
 An auto driver,  , who was waiting for commuters, noticed the trio and the suitcase. Meanwhile, he got a customer and left the place. When Ismail returned to the bus shelter about halfan-hour later, he found the suitcase abandoned and the three persons missing.
 
 Suspecting that there might be a bomb in the suitcase, he alerted police and when a bomb disposal unit opened the suitcase, they found the body of a woman in her early twenties. “The body was packed in a foetal position inside the suitcase. Her face was smeared with indelible ink to avoid detection of identity and toe rings were on the victim,” then   inspector P Madhukar Swamy said.
 
 There were hardly any CCTV cameras installed at that time in the city and police analysed footage from two CCTV cameras near the PVNR Expressway, but they could not identify the white Indica.
 
 Cops initially thought the victim was killed a few hours before the body was dumped, but the postmortem examination had revealed that she was throttled to death about three days ago. “The assailants refrigerated the body for about three days before dumping it,” an official, who was part of the probe, said. Cops then followed different leads they got through phone calls, but nothing proved to be useful. “We had collected DNA samples of several people whose family members, matching the description of the victim, were missing. But no match was found,” Swamy said.
 
