AHMEDABAD: Speaking to reporters at the third annual Flying Officer NJS Sekhon PVC memorial lectures held at the Knowledge Consortium of Gujarat, three top retired defence officers made their views clear on infiltration in Kashmir. 

  Former Chief of Army Staff V P Malik said Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPS) is necessary even today. Referring to the   incident in which an FIR was lodged against a soldier, Malik said the soldier had fired at a stone-pelter only to defend himself. “He was hit by a stone. To lodge an FIR against him is unacceptable and wrong. The FIR should be withdrawn,” Malik said, adding, “If a citizen has human rights, why not an Army jawan or officer?” Malik said, “If powers like ASPA are not with the Army then things will be more difficult.”
 
 Martyr Nirmaljeet Singh Sekhon, in whose memory the lecture series is held, was the only IAF officer to be awarded   for his part in the 1971 war between India and Pakistan.
 
 Speaking about infiltration in Kashmir, Malik said, “These incidents have been occurring for decades. One surgical strike can’t be a reply. Government should rethink. We have to take a decision. We have to work both defensively and offensively and select a time-frame for that.”
 
 Referring to recent   images of aggression by China in Doklam, Malik said China has been a little more aggressive in the area for a decade. “We have to improve our infrastructure. Build more roads, air strips, helipads to move our forces efficiently and swiftly,” said Malik. “Even if they have one or two posts in the area, it is not a major concern for us as the area falls between India and Bhutan, and we have good relations with Bhutan. We are at advantage from two sides.”
 
 Commenting on the increase in infiltration bids and growing number of terrorist encounters, Retired Air Chief Marshal,  , said, “It is the mind-set of our western neighbour. It has a military mind-set.”
 
 About Pakistan’s role, Raha said, “They are trying to sustain low-level conflict. We have to respond or decide at which level of escalation we should act. This will continue.”
 
 On his part, on the infiltration issue, Retired Vice Admiral Pradeep Kaushiva said fencing on the LOC is not enough to stop infiltration. “It is political issue,” said Kaushiva, adding, “Citizens, too, have to be aware.”
 
 Giving instances of help from citizens in stopping infiltration bids, Kaushiva said, “A cattle herder had alerted the army about infiltration in Kargil by Pakistan. Similarly, an old woman saw Mumbai attackers on the beach while they were approaching.”
 
 “Every citizen is responsible and should participate in security management. It is a part of national character and unless we do it we will have to pay in blood,” Kaushiva said.
 
 Similar sentiments were echoed by General Malik who admitted that infiltration has shot up at LOC but said elimination of terrorists has also gone up. “The LOC stretches from Jammu to Siachin and due to the tough terrain infiltration happens. We have multiple surveillance layers, but it is not difficult for two or four to sneak in. Unfortunately our own people help infiltrators,” said Malik.
 
 Gujarat Governer O P Kohli presided over the function and ensured his guidance to the AFA for awareness of security issues that Gujarat faces in particular. Air Marshal and AOC-in-C of SWAQ R K Dhir was the chief guest in the function.
 
 
