Chennai: While the telecom sector ruled the roost for M&A activity in 2017 in value terms largely due to the Vodafone-Idea merger, the financial service sector was the most active with close to 127 deals in 2017. With financial institutions facing the increasing need to expand their reach and digitize customer experience, heightened fintech adoption coupled with efforts to deal with stressed assests in the banking and NBFC segment has acted as a trigger, a report says.

 127 deals witnessed in 2017 was the highest yearly deal volume recorded in the last eight years, 37% higher than 2016, says the EY report. The sector recorded a cumulative value of $4.7 billion, 14% higher than $4.1 billion clocked in 2016. 
 
 This trend is expected to continue and even pick up this year with the fintech landscape gradually becoming overcrowded. “There are a lot of players who are operating in niche areas. With a large number of players, the elbow room available progressively begins to shrink and integration takes place,” said K Ramakrishnan, senior MD, strategic relationships at Spark Capital. EY’s Fintech Adoption Index 2017 revealed that FinTech adoption in India has increased significantly over the last two years. The results also disclosed that India has the second-highest FinTech adoption rate of 52%, just behind China’s 69% and significantly higher than the global average of 33%. Industry observers also attribute the heightened M&A activity to the hastened pace of digital adoption.
 
 “Today, banks have no choice but to be digital. They also realise that every technology cannot be built inhouse and there are enough smart startups that are doing it in an agile way and at a lower cost. They can either partner with them or acquire them,” added Ramakrishnan. 
 
 Payments solutions led the trend, followed by other fintech services such as insurance aggregator, bank aggregator sites, peer-to-peer lending platforms, online stockbroking and investment sites. 
 
 The disruption in the payments space has acted as a point of inflexion for the fintec space. With UPI based transactions touching nearly 50% of debit and credit card swipes, industry observers say government has been the biggest disrupter in the payments space. “The JAM (Jandhan, Aadhaar with Mobile) trinity with UPI has really put pressure on players to move up the curve. The only way to do it quickly is through inorganic growth,” he said.
 
 
 
