AMRITSAR: Accusing the Rajasthan’s   government of ignoring the interests of Sikhs, especially depriving them from their mother tongue Punjabi, the Rajasthan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (RSGPC) has decided to internationalize the issue to attract attention of Sikhs from around the world and garner support.

 The RSGPC has convened its emergency meeting on January 22 at Gurdwara Budha Johad in Sri Ganganagar.
 
 “Unfortunately the Sikhs of Rajasthan don’t recognize either Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee-appointed Jathedars or those appointed during the  . We believe there is a vacuum in the Sikh religious leadership so instead of approaching the clergy for its support, we have decided to hold a general meeting of the office-bearers of the RSGPC and Sikhs of Rajasthan to gather at a common place and mull over the issues faced by them,” said RSGPC president Hardeep Singh  , while talking to TOI on Tuesday.
 
 He alleged that the Rajasthan government was not filling the vacancies of Punjabi teachers in the Punjabi-majority areas of Sri Ganganagar, Hanumangarh and  , and was instead promoting Sanskrit language. “The issue doesn’t pertain to Sikh population alone but all the Punjabis as well as Punjabi-speaking Jats, Bishnois and other castes of Rajasthan,” he said.
 
 He said the RSGPC would bring the issue to the notice of national and international Sikh organizations to generate support to save their mother tongue. “Our children go to Punjab for jobs and if they don’t know Punjabi, they would lose opportunities,” he said.
 
 A prominent agriculturist Kartar Singh, resident of Kesri Singhpur in Sri Ganganagar, said they felt ‘outsiders’ in their home state. “Our ancestors had arrived and settled here on the invitation of Maharaja Ganga Singh and converted the barren land of Rajasthan into a fertile belt. Now we are being discriminated which is very hurting,” he said. He also appealed to the Sikhs from neighbouring states to converge on January 22 for the cause.
 
 Dibdiba said during the meeting, they would also discuss about the tourism plan of Johad (pond) near Gurdwara Budha Johad to develop it into a lake and attract national and international tourists.
 
 
