CHENNAI: Sleuths from the   have busted a   smuggling racket by seizing 14 containers of diesel and arresting four suspects, including the mastermind and a hawala operator, at  . This followed a tip-off from the   based in Hyderabad. 

 “The intelligence wing got an alert about the illegal smuggling of diesel in a ferry,” said a senior   official. Subsequently, the information was passed on to Chennai Port officials and a close watch was maintained on vessel movements to the port from  .
 
 The fuel was headed for  , Andhra Pradesh and Telangana through a syndicate operating from Chennai and Hyderabad. “We started our investigations with a tip-off that merely said that fuel was being smuggled to India through Chennai Port by declaring it as mineral spirit,” said the official. 
 
 During a series of searches and inquiries, DRI officials conducted surprise checks at Hyderabad and Chennai with the active support of Andhra Pradesh state intelligence from April 17 onwards.
 
 Searches at two container freight stations in Chennai revealed that 14 containers imported at Chennai Port in the name of SAF Petroleum and Aditya Marine landed at  , Chennai and  , Chennai, where the goods were declared as mineral spirit.
 
 These containers were found to be actually carrying 263.78 MT (3 lakh litres approximately) of diesel which was confirmed during chemical examination. Simultaneous searches were conducted across Kakinada and Chennai covering 12 properties belonging to importers, clearing agents, transportation brokers, supervisors and hawala operators, a release said.
 
 Besides an office in Kakinada, the smugglers had a storage yard at Maraimalai Nagar and an office in Guindy to facilitate the racket. 
 
 Dummy companies were opened in Dubai to purchase diesel and import it to Chennai by creating false documents, fake receipts and invoices. The price difference was being adjusted by payments through hawala channels. In the past, these operators had smuggled around 5,366 MT (63 lakh litres) of diesel valued at around Rs 17.7 crore, the release added.
 
 
