VADODARA/ANAND: In a move that left Gujarat’s dairy co-operative sector surprised, Amul Dairy’s chairman  , the Congress turncoat who had joined BJP just last year, was elected unanimously as chairman of India’s largest co-operative federation - the   (GCMMF) – the apex body of all milk unions of Gujarat that markets brand Amul..

 Parmar, who had lost the assembly polls from Thasra after joining BJP, was elected unanimously on Monday for a tenure of two-and-a-half years after the board meeting at Anand 
 
 Parmar, the senior-most and seasoned amongst all the 18 heads of district dairy unions having their affiliation with BJP, has replaced Sabar Dairy’s chairman Jetha Patel who had got elected to the post in August 2015. 
 
 Shehra BJP Jetha Bharwad, who chairs Panchmahals-based Panchamrut Dairy, retained the post of vice-chairman of GCMMF. In December 2015, as part of compromise formula, Bharwad had become the first vice-chairman of GCMMF as the board members had brought in a change in its bye-laws to create the special post for the first time since its inception in 1973.
 
 Unlike in the run-up to the 2015 elections when Gujarat’s dairy sector was split into two camps, the dairy co-operative leaders had showcased unity. 
 
 But the fact that BJP’s top leadership had a say in selecting Parmar for the top post at GCMMF became evident when ahead of the board meeting, Banas Dairy’s chairman and former minister of state for health and family welfare Shankar Chaudhary had almost come prepared to “accept” the top post. In fact, sources said that on Sunday when 15 out of 18 heads of milk unions had a meeting with education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama and revenue minister Kaushik Patel at Gandhinagar, consensus was created on Chaudhary’s name for the top post. 
 
 But tables later turned in favour of Parmar on Sunday night after intervention of BJP’s top brass. Parmar himself was surprised when he entered the board room of GCMMF where he was garlanded in presence of Chudasama and state co-operative minister Ishwar Patel. 
 
 “The party has decided to engage Chaudhary, who has vast organisational experience, for other responsibilities which is why Ramsinh Parmar who carries years of experience with him has been unanimously elected as chairman,” Chudasama told media persons when asked about speculations that Chaudhary was set to become GCMMF’s chairman. 
 
 Chudasama added that during the board meeting, Chaudhary himself proposed Parmar’s nomination which was supported by Kutch Dairy’s chairman Valamji Humbal. 
 
 Bharwad’s nomination was proposed by GCMMF’s outgoing chairman Jetha Patel and was supported by Baroda Dairy’s chairman Dinesh Patel aka Dinu Mama. 
 
 Seventy-four-year-old Parmar, the five term Congress MLA from Thasra seat, had resigned from Congress to join BJP just ahead of the Rajya Sabha election in July last year. His gamble of switching sides had however not paid off when he contested for a sixth term from the same seat as a BJP candidate but lost the poll fray against Congress candidate Kanti Parmar by a margin of 7,000 votes.
 
 With Amul Dairy however Parmar has been associated since 33 years first as member, later as vice-chairman and chairman – the post he holds since 2003. 
 
 While it is for the first time that a chairman of Amul Dairy from where the entire White Revolution started has got elected as head of GCMMF, Parmar’s election has in a way completed a cycle whereby chief of all the four major dairy unions of Gujarat including Banas, Mehsana, Sabar and now Amul have got a chance to head the federation. 
 
 
