NEW DELHI: Just when it seemed that   was coming together nicely, it has emerged that the team management, selectors and the players have got into a mess just days after the senior team lost the Ranji Trophy final against Vidarbha.

 With the   T20 tournament scheduled to start in Delhi on January 9, the selectors are yet to announce the team, citing issues pertaining to a few players. According to sources,  , who has been Delhi's highest run-scorer this season with 683 runs, finds himself in the middle of a storm a year after he fell out with coach KP Bhaskar. "There are disciplinary issues with Gambhir. He has not been with the team the way he should have been," a source close to the development told TOI. "His name is on the team sheet but with a question mark. His selection will come with a rider," the source added.
 
 It is learnt that the selectors - Atul Wassan, Hari Gidwani and   - have drafted a team and submitted it to Justice Vikramjit Singh, High Court-appointed administrator at the Delhi & District Cricket Association (DDCA). The list will not be disclosed till the issues are sorted out. While the team management has voiced its objection, no formal report has been submitted by the team manager. "Gambhir used to travel on his own. He arrived only on the eve of matches and left immediately after the match. But that has been the case with most established cricketers," the source said. It is also understood that Justice Sen will meet Gambhir to take stock of the situation.
 
 Gambhir was put on notice by Justice Sen before the season after Madan Lal, head of cricket affairs committee, recommended a four-match ban. Following this, Gambhir decided to turn down captaincy for this season.
 
 The selectors are also unsure about continuing with 20-yearold Rishabh Pant as the captain. But they are in a fix since Gambhir's situation is tricky and they lack confidence in  . The selectors have also raised the issue of players hiding injuries to play in the final. The team's physio P Badrinath and trainer   had an altercation over   playing in the final, where the left-arm spinner didn't bowl citing knee injury. 
 
