PUNE: Acting as a  , a member of the   diverted attention of a back-scratching businessman and his accomplice fled with the latter’s bag containing Rs1.32 lakh near Kataria hospital in Yerawada between 3pm and 4pm on Thursday.

  
 The businessman, Glario Anthony Cardoz (52), from Hari Ganga housing society at Phulenagar lodged an FIR at the Yerawada police station the same night. His complaint was registered under Section 379 (theft) of IPC.
 
 Cardoz told TOI on Saturday, “I collected Rs1 lakh from traders and visited the Central Bank of India’s Yerawada branch around 3pm. I withdrew Rs30,000 from my mother’s savings account. I kept all the money, including the Rs2,000 in my pocket, in the haversack and walked up to my scooter. I was on my way to fill fuel at a petrol pump at Bund Garden and was passing via Kataria hospital when my neck and back started itching.”
 
 He stopped and started scratching his body on the roadside. “A man surfaced from the rear and told me like a Good Samaritan that there were insects on my shirt. He asked me to go to a nearby betel shop and get water to wash my neck for some relief,” he said.
 
 Cardoz took a bottle of water from the shop, kept the bag near his feet and started pouring water on neck. “The seemingly Good Samaritan then hurriedly left. His aide stole the bag,” he said.
 
 The businessman then rushed to the police station. He asked the policemen to seize his shirt with itching powder but they refused. When his domestic help washed it, her hands turned red apparently under the impact of the itching powder sprayed on it.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (zone IV) Deepak Sakore said, “I have instructed senior inspectors of all the police stations to seize the shirt in such cases and seek experts’ view to ascertain the chemicals used by the gang.”
 
 Cardoz’s cashless bag was found abandoned on Friday under a tree near the State Bank of India’s   branch. 
 
 Yerawada police’s senior inspector Mukund Mahajan said, “A CCTV camera has captured blurred images of a suspect.” 
 
 
