KOCHI: The bunkering activity at the  , which went down following the implementation of 18% GST, is yet to reach its former glory even as mid-sea collisions involving ships continue to happen; with the latest incident being in January 2018.

 Earlier, at least 20-25 ships would make use of this facility prior to the GST implementation in July 2017. Two months into the GST regime and after Amber L collision incident, the number dropped to as low as five a month. After the GST rate was cut to 5% in October, there was some respite with the number marginally improving to 15 ships a month.
 
 Bunkering, the process of filing fuel containers of a ship, brings in a large amount of revenue for ports as more ships, close to the coastline, approaches ports for bunkering. According to a shipping agent from  , agents in the city were canvassing hard to improve business.
 
 “Before GST implementation, bunkering activity was flourishing. However, realizing the cheaper availability of fuel in ports like  , many ships moved away. In June, following the Amber L collision incident, the coastline got a bad reputation courtesy the legal tangle. Hence, ships skipped the coast completely avoiding the ports in  . After GST was reduced, ships started coming in due to active canvassing,” said the shipping agent.
 
 Seafarers complained that the boats switching off tracking devices so as to outsmart other fishermen increased the risk of collision as opposed to vessels that fish in clusters.
 
 CEO of Synergy group of companies Captain   said the technology to track such boats was available. “An authority needs to invest and bring in modern technology in this sector. However, the claims that there is no technology is untrue,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, an experienced seafarer, on condition of anonymity, said that the fall in bunkering rate was only technical.
 
 “You can say that it has gone down by citing statistics. But shipping is a business and if its properly done with better facilities for incoming ships, then it will return to its former glory. No company is going to stay away from our coastline if we prove what is beneficial for them,” he said.
 
