CHENNAI: The   on Friday told the Madras high court that a confidential note — which included a copy of the sworn statement of an accused in the gutka scam about his alleged payment of Rs 56 lakh to the present health minister — written by it in the multi-crore gutka scam case, was recovered from V K Sasikala’s room. The jailed Jaya aide’s room in former CM Jayalalithaa’s   house,  , was searched by I-T sleuths last November.

 “During a search conducted by the department on November 17, 2017 in the rooms occupied by   in Veda Nilayam, a note dated September 2, 2016 signed by the then DGP addressed to the then chief minister enclosing copies of a secret letter dated August 11, 2016 addressed by then principal director of income tax department to DGP in connection with the gutkha scam was found and seized,” said Suise Babu Varghese, the present principal director of the department, Chennai, through an affidavit filed in the court. 
 
 Varghese made the submissions in a PIL filed by DMK legislator J Anbazhagan seeking a CBI probe into the alleged gutkha scam. The letter dated November 11, 2016 was addressed to both the then chief secretary and the DGP with copies of the relevant accounts from the seized materials and copies of the extracts of sworn statements recorded from Madhava Rao, partner in MDM (gutkha) group company involved in the scam, evidencing payment to various parties connected with the state government, and requesting necessary action against the persons concerned, Varghese added. 
 
 This apart, in the sworn statement, Rao has stated that the payments were made to various officials and explained that abbreviations — ‘HM’ and ‘CP’ — in the seized diary denoted health minister and commissioner of police respectively.
 
 “Madhava Rao in his sworn statement has said that he had paid Rs 56 lakh to the health minister between the period April 1, 2016 and June 15, 2016 for incidental expenses incurred for running the business if manufacture and sale if gutkha which is not legally permitted in  ,” the affidavit said.
 
 On Friday, since the case had been listed down below, it could not be taken up for hearing. But considering the latest developments and urgency of the issue, senior counsel P Wilson made a mention before the bench requesting it to record the counter and fix a date for the urgent hearing of the case. Acceding to the request, the bench said that the plea would be heard on January 17, at 3.30pm.
 
 
