GURUGRAM: A   in her 30s filed a complaint with the cyber cell on Friday, alleging she was cheated of Rs 4.6 lakh by a man who befriended her on a social media platform and promised to marry her, police said.

 In her complaint, the woman, a resident of Sector 55, said that the man claimed to be working with a multi-national company and she started chatting with him a few months back. She said they had never met, however, they used to chat every day on social media and over the phone.
 
 The woman told the police that the man had promised to come along with his parents and meet her father and mother to fix their marriage. However, two weeks back, she received a call from the person who informed her that he had to go abroad for some official work. He then asked the woman to deposit some money in his account as he urgently required it. After the man shared his account details, the woman transferred Rs 4.6 lakh in the account. However, later when she tried contacting him, she failed to do so.
 
 The woman then filed a complaint on Friday and based on it, the unknown person was booked under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of the IPC and also under section 66 D (cheating by impersonation by using computer resource) of the Information Technology Act, 2000. “We have registered the case and investigation is on,” said a police officer of Cyber Cell.
 
 On May 5, an another woman from   filed a complaint with the cyber cell, alleging a man ha duped her of Rs 39.20 lakh. The woman told the police that she met the person on a matrimonial site last year and he claimed to be working with a pharmaceutical company based in Vancouver, Canada.
 
 “I came into contact with   alias   on a matrimonial site. After two weeks of interaction, he asked me to help him by ordering some herbal seeds for him from India.The man asked me to get in contact with one Neha who would deliver the seeds to him. As told, I deposited Rs 39.20 lakh in various accounts as directed by Neha. After transfering the money, they disappeared and stop talking my calls,” the victim said in her complaint.
 
 The cyber cell of Gurugram police has registered a case against unknown person under section 66Dof IT Act, 2000, and sections 420 and 419 (cheating by impersonation) of IPC.
 
 
