NAGPUR: Reacting to a TOI report on a city school being sealed by bank as part of foreclosure proceedings, MLC from teachers’ constituency   said the   is helpless as the current law does not allow them to interfere. Navyuak School’s 80 students found themselves without a school in February as the bank moved in to recover dues, leading to worries that there might be more schools mortgaging their property and risking the future of students. 

 “The government cannot do anything in this matter because teachers and students are at the mercy of private school management. We experienced this recently when an aided school wanted to close down. We protested the closure and the government denied them the permission as well. The school went to court and won the case. The court in fact ruled that as per the current law, schools do not need permission to close down, just adequate notice has to be given,” said Ganar. 
 
 A senior education official agreed saying there are a lot of grey areas when it comes to school property. The official, not wanting to be identified, said, “The school is run by the trust and land is usually leased. The land’s ownership is almost always with one of the trustees. This lease means school will have to pay rent and that becomes a source of income for the trustee.” 
 
 What this means is that since school does not actually own the land, it cannot have a say over what the real owner does with it.   said, “The landowner can mortgage it or even decide to close school for a commercial venture. None of this is illegal. Plus education department does not have jurisdiction over land ownership issues.” 
 
 Ganar’s solution is for a change in the law. “There has to be a big overhaul of the system, as we know it. Students have to be kept in mind at all times and rules must be balanced with regard to all stakeholders. We can’t have school management dictating terms at all times because thousands of students will get affected because of their single decision,” he said.
 
 
