VISAKHAPATNAM: A ‘Farm Radio’ that was launched to give insights and tips to farmers has met with enormous success in the district.

 Developed by scientists of Anakapalle   (ARAS), the Farm   app sees hundreds of farmers tuning into it everyday through their smartphones.
 
 The success of the app has prompted ARAS to try to get All India Radio’s Vizag and Vijayawada stations broadcast   in order to reach out to a larger audience.
 
 ARAS officials said they have are extending support to farmers in the form of information through toll-free numbers as well as a special app. “Farm Radio offers tips on maintaining crops, weather forecast, market information and related tips as well as success stories of various farmers,” said an ARAS official. 
 
 “Farm Radio is nothing but an internet radio. Any farmer who has a smartphone and internet connectivity can easily access   Radio. The response from farmers is great and they are asking us for more information on methods to protect their crops,” senior scientist of crop production   told TOI.
 
 “This radio is different from other FM radios as this radio has no boundaries because it is connected to the internet. Farmers can listen to the radio round-the-clock and can also choose whatever topic they want to listen to. We are planning to add more topics and other aspects,” Rao said.
 
 After witnessing the response, ARAS is now trying to sign an MoU with  , because they have more topics as they have already been transmitting ‘Palle Seemalu and Grama Darsini’ programmes. They have more than 160 topics and ARAS wishes to upload all these topics to provide the information to farmers through Farm Radio. 
 
 Rao said farmers are seeking information according to the season. Nowadays, they are asking about mango and cashew orchids, besides sugarcane plantation. Anyone can access the radio by logging into www.farmradio.in . This radio was developed by a group of scientists of ARAS – Pradeep Kumar, Dr Moshe, Dr Chittibabu, Dr Vijayabhinandana, Dr Dhanasri and others.
 
 
