CHENNAI: Tucked away in obscure corners of government hospitals, clinics for   (STIs) have coughed up data that could be crucial evidences of child rape. In 2017, doctors from various institutions referred nearly 900 children below 10 years to these centers after suspecting or confirming sexual abuse – double that of 2015. 

 The number is higher in the 11-15 years age group: 2,248 children consulted doctors in these centres last year, up from 1,475 two years ago, show statistics furnished by Tamil Nadu State Aids Control Society (TANSACS) in response to an RTI application by TOI.
 
 Doctors say at least three in every 100 children in these age groups test positive for a sexually transmitted infection ( ). Test results of the rest either returned negative or the children were too scared to name the perpetrators or the source. Disclosed or not, all their details remain mere squiggles in government hospital records.
 
 Under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences ( ) Act, 2012, doctors have to report a medico-legal case in all incidents of child sexual abuse, failing which they could be sentenced to six months imprisonment and/or levied a fine under Section 21 of the Act. 
 
 The extent of underreporting is evident when one compares the crime rate against children with the number of those who approach the state-run STI clinics. In 2016, 1,583 cases were registered under POCSO, including 1,169 of child rape. The same year, 8,871 children and adolescents consulted the designated clinics for STIs and reproductive tract infections (DSRC). Around 35% tested positive for at least one STI. 
 
  In children, STIs can occur by sexual abuse, voluntary sexual contact or, in rare instances, blood transfusion and needle pricks. A pregnant woman who has syphilis -- spread through vaginal, anal and oral sex – can also pass on the infection through the placenta to an unborn child. Doctors however say due to availability of better antenatal care, cases of congenital syphilis have declined consistently over the past two decades.
 
  
  
 
 The state government has 157 DSRCs. TOI spoke to doctors in at least seven such centers. All of them had seen at least one child below 15 years who tested positive for an STI in the last two months. None of them reported to the police. “They come through referrals,” said a faculty from the department of dermatology and venerology, Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital, Salem. “We presume doctors who are the first point of contact report if they suspect sexual abuse,” he said. Asked if he shared the STI/RTI test results with the referee physician, he replied in the affirmative: “If they ask for it.” 
 
 Last year, the doctor saw a 7-year-old boy who had initially approached the hospital with a high temperature. The child was referred to him when the attending physician noticed lesions in his genital area. He tested positive for secondary syphilis. “He was clearly a victim,” said the doctor. The child, accompanied by his grandmother, was asked to return for follow-ups. 
 
 “He was always lively. But the minute we tried to extract information, he would grow sullen,” said the doctor. And, one day, three months later, the boy finally spoke -- about how he was scared to sleep. Every time he slept, his grandmother’s partner would rouse him to rape him. When counsellors at the center advised his grandmother to lodge a police complaint, she immediately agreed. That was the last time they saw the child. 
 
 The designated STI clinic in the hospital in the last four years confirmed abuse to be the cause of STIs in at least six children – four   and two boys -- all below 10 years.
 
 In a similar incident, a 6-year-old boy from Villupuram, who had genital warts, one of the most common symptoms of STIs, vanished from the health department’s radar when he revealed to a counsellor in the government general hospital here that he had been sodomised by a senior in the government residential school he stayed in. Doctors healed the child physically, but when they asked his parents, both migrant labourers, to register a police complaint, they refused. 
 
 Most of the children, doctors say, come with viral STIs like herpes genitalis, secondary syphilis and warts.
 
 Doctors say symptoms of STIs usually don't surface immediately after abuse. The patients have to be followed up for up to six months. However, this is rarely done for child rape survivors. Sherin Bosko, co-founder of Nakshata, an organisation that works for child rape victims, said after the initial medical examination and screening for HIV and other sexually transmitted diseases, doctors don’t ask these children to return for follow-ups. "This should be taken seriously. These children are at high risk of contracting infections as the perpetrator is bound to have had multiple relations," she said. 
 
 The increase in children attending these clinics has surprised health officials too. National AIDS Control Organisation requires DSRCs to maintain data of the number of overall attendees who are above 18 years old and below. “We don’t stress too much on finding the transmission mode, to ensure patient privacy. We hadn’t really thought of these records being an indicator of child abuse until now,” said Dr K Senthil Raj, project director, TANSACS.
 
 Not all those referred to these clinics were forced into having sex. The DSRC at the government general hospital in Chennai attended to 968 children below 18 years in 2017, 46% of them in the 11-15 years age group.
 
 Dr S Kalaivani, head of the department of venereology, said abuse accounted for less than 1% of the children the clinic received. “What we see now is a lot of sexual adventurism. There is an increase in boys, especially those staying in hostels, engaging in unsafe homosexual behavior,” she said, stressing on the need for schools to boost sex education. “And we need to start early. The sexually active age of children now starts at 12,” she said. 
 
 Children between 16 and 18 years accounted for 64% of all paediatric cases referred to these clinics. India's age of consent for sex is 18 under the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 2013.
 
