BHUBANESWAR: Wary of rising number of road accidents, the commissionerate police on Saturday launched a year-long campaign to sesitise motorists and bike riders about road safety rules in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack. Additional chief secretary (home department) Asit   inaugurated the campaign in the presence of police commissioner Y B  , transport secretary G Srinivas, transport commissioner   and additional commissioner of police Sanjay Singh. 

 The year-long campaign will highlight five key areas--use of helmet, seatbelt, no to drunk driving, no to speed driving and no to mobile use during drive.
 
 Asit Tripathy said accidents occur due to lack of awareness among people about road safety rules. "Good to see the commissionerate police launching the initiative on five golden rules on road safety," Tripathy said. Tripathy lauded the work of student traffic volunteers in Bhubaneswar. "At a time when traffic management poses huge challenge, the student volunteers are performing a good job," Tripathy said.
 
 CP, Y B Khurania said accidents have been occurring unabated despite police crackdowns. "The prime reason is people are not aware about traffic norms. Those, who know the rules, do not want to make it a habit of using helmets or seat belts. We hope our year-long campaign will instill sense of responsibility among people," Khurania said. "We will spread awareness on five key rules-- use of helmet, seatbelt, no to drunk driving, no to use of mobile phones during drive and no to speed driving," the   said.
 
 Transport commissioner Madhusudan Padhi said proper analysis should be made to know the reason of each accident. G Srinivas, transport secretary, said school and college students should be educated about road rules and its compliance. Cooperation of people of all walks of life is needed to check accidents. "We are working in coordination with works department to remove engineering defects from roads," he said.
 
 Total 185 persons died in accidents in Bhubaneswar in 2017. Altogether 175 and 186 persons died here in 2015 and 2016, respectively. 
 
 
