GURUGRAM: Five members of the notorious ‘thak thak’   have been arrested, in a breakthrough that police claimed helped them solve at least 100 cases of theft and loot that took place in the city over the past six-seven months.

 Around 25 laptops, a car and a two-wheeler, along with other stolen items, have been recovered.
 
  
 Notorious for intercepting moving vehicles and robbing passengers of valuables, mainly cash, the gang claimed to have changed its modus operandi in Gurgaon, where they would essentially target parked cars and steal laptops, mobile phones, purses etc.
 
 ACP (crime)   said the gang was active in upscale areas of the city. “All of them used to live in Delhi’s Mandangiri area. They used to come to Gurgaon in their cars and look for parked vehicles in upscale areas. They mostly operated in groups and communicated in their native language (Tamil). After zeroing in on any ‘safe target’, they used to break the window glasses and make off with laptops and other valuables kept inside the car,” he said.
 
 A special team was formed following a sharp increase in the number of incidents of theft from parked cars in the past few months. “Preliminary investigation indicated involvement of the  ,” Singh added.
 
 Then, acting on a tip-off, the Gurgaon crime branch arrested Bhola, Sanjay and Vinay from a water park in Noida on April 22. During interrogation, they revealed the names Sanju and Rakesh, who were later picked up from Mandangiri on April 28. All of them are originally from Tamil Nadu but shifted base to Delhi and constructed their houses there.
 
 While Bhola, Sanjay, Vinay and Sanju used to carry out thefts, Rakesh used to run a shop in Madangiri for selling stolen items. Police said they were identified with the help of CCTV footage.
 
 In March, the Delhi Police had arrested thak thak gang kingpin Kanhaiyan (48), known as Guruji among criminals. Originally from Madurai, Kanhaiyan used to send the gang members to other states, including  , to commit crime and come back with the booty.
 
 It was Kanhaiyan who had adopted the modus operandi with a few friends and later taught the tricks of the trade to other members. This led to the foundation of his thak thank gang. Soon, men as well as women joined the gang in large numbers. He had a role for each member of a module.
 
 The gang would distract car drivers either by knocking on the window, puncturing tyres, pouring oil under car’s hood at red lights or by staging minor accidents. One member would take away the bag kept in the car while the other members argued with the driver.
 
 However, in Gurgaon, the gang members adopted a new trick apparently after the demonetisation as people stopped carrying too much cash. “Attacking parked cars and stealing laptops and other items appeared less risky. So they tweaked their modus operandi,” said ACP Singh.
 
 Police further said the accused were addicted to drugs and liquor. “They used to fund their addiction by stealing things,” he added.
 
 
