HYDERABAD: Be it the shortage of doctors or lack of proper facilities, the number of surgeries performed at government medical colleges in   is significantly lower than those performed in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh. The two procedures where the difference is significant are knee replacement and bypass surgeries.

 According to official records, government teaching hospitals in Telangana saw only 26 bypass surgeries being performed in 2017, even as the count in   hospitals was a staggering 406. In case of knee replacement surgeries, the count was 16 for Telangana versus 517 for AP.
  
  
 “While medical facilities in Telangana are better than in AP, the former has more corporate hospitals. As people prefer undergoing surgeries at these corporate hospitals, under the Arogyasri or Employees’ State Insurance Scheme, the number in government facilities is very low in certain specialisations,” said   B, vice-chancellor of  .
 
 He, however, dismissed lack of staff as a reason for this disparity. “Staff shortage is not a major reason as we perform a lot of surgeries in other specialisations, apart from orthopaedics and cardiology,” he said.
 
 Underplaying the issue, K  , director of medical education (DME), said that there are 133 specialisations, including paediatrics, wherein operations can be performed only in government hospitals for patients to avail of the Arogyasri scheme. In these departments, he said, the count of surgeries in Telangana is way higher.
 
 “Between January and December, we have performed a total of 77,915 major surgeries and another 1,77,986 minor surgeries across teaching hospitals in Telangana. The same trend continues in the outpatient and inpatient departments where we treated scores of patients in 2017,” said Ramesh Reddy, adding that lot of neurological and plastic surgeries and renal transplants, among others, have been performed in these facilities.
 
 
 Raising their concern over the disparity, house surgeons said that it limits their scope for hands-on experience. “Though there are a lot of surgeries happening in city hospitals, which allow us a chance to learn, in peripheral areas it isn’t the case,” said Abhishek V, a junior doctor, while upholding the lack of staff as a serious concern.
 
 
