GURUGRAM: A   located amid the bustle of   is at serious risk of being torn down to make way for a  . According to images taken by the Sushant School of Art and   (SSAA) in Gurgaon, the baoli has been filled with earth for the purpose of building a road. The photos also capture tyre marks of an earth mover.

 In January last year, TOI had reported on the threat faced by the structure from the same road, which seeks to link   village to Sohna Road. The baoli bestrides the premises of a government girls’ primary school, and is rimmed, on one side, by slums. At that time, state cabinet minister and local MLA Rao Narbir Singh had assured promised an inspection of the stepwell to be followed by a restoration plan.
 
 “Last week, when one of our students was visiting the site, she that the slums had been cleared and noticed pillars marking the width of the road,” Parul Munjal, associate professor at the Sushant School of Art and Architecture (SSAA), and head of the school’s heritage programme, told TOI. “When we went there, we found the well completely filled up with earth. There were people at the site, who left when they saw us.”
 
 
  
 
 The baoli, which was built in 1905 and was being studied by the school as part of a heritage conservation project, had been listed by the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH) in the early part of last decade. More than a decade on, it was the school that had brought to INTACH’s notice the baoli’s vulnerable status.
 
 Over the last couple of years, SSAA has been carrying out a campaign, along with INTACH, to save the baoli. The fear now is that if action isn’t taken immediately, these latest developments might spell the end for the structure, already in a state of utter neglect. “I’ll be contacting the   administrator to see if the matter can be resolved,” said Shikha Jain, convenor of the Haryana chapter of INTACH. “We have worked out a plan with the INTACH head office, which shows how the road can be realigned to save the baoli. The message I got from our head office is that if the realignment can be agreed upon, INTACH is ready to fund the restoration of the baoli,” she added.
 
 Though not legally protected, the baoli features as a structure of historical importance on the website of the ministry of culture. Yet, the Gurgaon-Manesar Development Plan 2031 makes no mention of it. And while little damage has been done to the structure following the dumping of earth, it appears that the Badshapur baoli is living on borrowed time.
 
 When TOI took the concern to the state government on Friday, it promised again not to harm the baoli. Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav said he will inspect the site on Saturday and will ensure no further damage was done. The state archaeology department also said it would work on restoring the stepwell. “We will visit the site next week with our team and ensure the heritage site is restored,” said Praveen Kumar, director of the state’s archaeology and museums department.
 
 
