It’s been three years since Priya Kumar spent a festival with her parents or inlaws. The 30-something prefers to stay home with her husband or use the precious time off to travel to a new place. “Our parents are in Bengaluru and we live in Mumbai. Festivals are the only holidays we get so we prefer a quiet evening at home, just the two of us,” says Kumar. 

 Busy work schedules and fewer holidays mean more people are spending less time with family. A study, conducted by AC Nielsen and commissioned by Britannia across six metros, found that one in two respondents said they hadn’t met family during festivals for the past three years. 
 
 About 50% of respondents said they spend less than 30 days a year with their parents while 76% of working professionals have cancelled a family holiday at least once in the last three years. 
 
 They are, however, still bonding digitally — 89% said   was the new “meeting place” for families, while 73% were connected on  . 
 
 Sagaya Mary, 30, who works in the social sector in Chennai, hasn’t gone home for close to a year though her family lives less than 200km away in Cuddalore. “I would have liked to celebrate Christmas with them but my team is understaffed so I chose to stay back. Plus they pressure me to get married,” she says. 
 
 Expensive tickets also make travelling home difficult. Stand-up comedian Guru Narayan Chandrasekar, whose day job is as an assistant manager at L&T in Mumbai, misses celebrating festivals with family. “I don’t get enough days off to travel back home to Chennai and tickets are too expensive during festivals,” he says.
 
 Onlinetravel service   says 10-12% of trips are booked by large groups but they’re not always families. 
 
 “Vacations taken by extended families have reduced, and nuclear families taking trips with friends is now the trend,” says Amit Taneja, chief revenue officer, Cleartrip. “With more Indians settled abroad, vacation time doesn’t coincide so family trips are rarer.” Travel websites have also recorded an increase in the number of travellers with similar interests forming groups and travelling, he says. (with inputs from Aparna Desikan)
 
