CHANDIGARH: The   and   high court on Tuesday directed the chief secretaries of the states of Punjab and Haryana to ensure that selecting bodies in their states mention the   under which the advertised posts are to be filled up, and also mention the website on which those recruitment rules are available. The HC has issued the directions to ensure that unnecessary litigation on the eligibility issue is avoided.

 A division bench comprising Justice   and Justice B S Walia has passed the orders while dismissing a bunch of appeals filed by certain unsuccessful candidates for the post of panchayat secretaries in the department of   and Panchayats, Punjab.
 
 The counsel for the appellants brought to the bench’s notice that he had often come across cases where the selection commissions do not mention the recruitment rules in advertisements issued by them. “With the result, the candidates submit their applications on the basis of eligibility qualifications mentioned in the advertisement, but their candidature is eventually dismissed for the reason that they do not possess the qualifications prescribed in terms of recruitment rules. That leads to litigation,” the counsel told the bench.
 
 After hearing this, the bench asked both the states of Punjab and Haryana to notify such rules on their web portals.
 
 In this particular case before the bench, the appellants had submitted their applications for 800 posts of panchayat secretaries in response to an advertisement published by the Subordinate Service Selection Board, Punjab. They had participated in the recruitment process, but eventually their candidature was rejected on the ground that they did not possess the qualifications prescribed under The Punjab Panchayat Secretaries (Recruitment and Conditions of Service) Rules, 2013. They filed writ petitions, which were dismissed by a single judge bench on the ground that they did not possess the qualifications as prescribed in the rules. They filed their appeals, which were dismissed by the division bench on Tuesday.
 
 
