Pune: Experts associated with the Indian Academy of Paediatrics’ (IAP) city chapter have extended full support to the government’s immunisation efforts to save lives of children below five from vaccine-preventable diseases. The country’s aim is to meet the Sustainable Development Goals by reducing neonatal mortality to at least as low as 12 per 1,000 live births and under-5 mortality to at least as low as 25 per 1,000 live births by 2030. World Immunusation Week is observed between April 24 and April 30.  “Childhood vaccines are one of the great triumphs of modern medicine. Over the last century, vaccines have been absolutely fundamental in overcoming the hurdle of many infectious diseases,” said paediatrician and IAP-Pune president Sanjay Lalwani.  On December 25, 2014, the Centre launched Mission Indradhanush to immunise kids against seven vaccine-preventable diseases. It aims to cover all children by 2020 who are either not vaccinated or are partially vaccinated against seven vaccine preventable diseases in the initial stage. The seven vaccine preventable diseases are diphtheria, whooping cough, tetanus, polio, tuberculosis, measles and hepatitis B. In addition, vaccines for Japanese Encephalitis (JE) and Haemophilus influenza type B are also being provided in select states under the Centre’s Universal Immunisation Programme. In 2016, three new additions have been made — Rubella, injectable polio vaccine (Bivalent) and rotavirus. In 2017, pneumonia was added to the mission by incorporating pneumococcal conjugate vaccine under the Universal Immunisation Programme. “The latest addition of pneumococcal vaccine is owing to the rise of pneumonia as a threat to child health. As per World Health Organisation data, pneumonia accounts for 16% of all deaths of children under five years old. Pneumonia alone kills more children under five years of age than measles, malaria and HIV combined. It has overtaken all other infections, including diarrhoea, to become the leading cause of under-five mortality in India accounting for 13% of all deaths,” Lalwani said. The latest national level survey conducted in 2015-16 revealed that the proportion of fully immunised children across the country is only 62.0%. “We still have a great challenge of reaching to each child without compromising with the quality of services. The IAP-Pune will carry out all sorts of awareness and sensitisation programmes to improve the vaccination coverage,” Lalwani said.