KOLKATA: The   girl, who has been in the hospital for the past one week, has first time named a person who had allegedly pushed her from the fourth floor of her hostel. On Friday, the 15-year-old asked nurses for a pen and paper and jotted down the incident that led to her sustaining the injuries. She also wrote the alleged perpetrator’s name and even put her signature on the handwritten note. Doctors have handed over her written statement to the police. TOI, however, is not taking the perpetrator’s name in absence of police confirmation.

 
 
  
 
 
 Top officers from   and south suburban division, though, said there were several inconsistencies in her statements for the past seven days. “During this period, she has named three persons — a teacher of a hostel, where she was previously lodged, and two girls whom she claimed lured her to an unidentified place. Till today, we have not found the existence of any of the three. About a dozen persons have been questioned, several of them from her school and the hostel. But we found nothing so far that can sustain her statement,” said an officer.
 
 The girl was found severely injured and unconscious in Golf Gardens on the morning of May 4. She started to speak a bit coherently only from Thursday. “I had come to know about an extra marital affair about my boxing teacher. He pushed me from the fourth floor fearing that I would spill the beans on his relationship,” the girl jotted down on a piece of paper.
 
 Police said the girl had been trying to speak about a relationship from day two. “We plan to take a psychiatrist along with us. The fact that we found several adhesive tubes from her makes us wonder if there’s any drug overdose. Though an attempt to murder cannot be ruled out, there is also a possibility that she fell from a height accidentally,” police said.
 
 Police initially tried to speak to the girl on Friday. But they gave up after 30 minutes as the girl refused to speak, saying that she will speak to the cops in the presence of her grandmother. After four hours of intense counselling by doctors, the girl broke in tears. She started penning down the incident after doctors assured her that there were no cops around. “It was around 4.20pm on May 3 when I was pushed from the hostel building. But I did not fall straight on the ground as I managed to cling on to something. My hands slipped after a few minutes and I fell down,” she wrote in both English and Bengali.
 
 She said she didn’t remember anything after that. She signed the note and handed it over to the doctors who later gave it to police. “There is a marked improvement in her condition. On Friday we did a repeat CT scan of the brain, USG of the abdomen and thorax ,” said Dr  , ITU in-charge at SSKM.
 
