Tonight will be a musical dream come true for fans of the ’90s Irish boybands,   and  . Where else will you get to hear a blend of 'No Matter What' and 'If I Let You Go' under one roof, ‘live’? As Boyzone’s   and Westlife’s   jam together for their   in Mumbai today, it will be a coming together of sorts. Talk about perfect fusion!

 While both the bands were equally popular during the ’90s and early 2000s, one wonders the kind of connect they share with the current generation. In fact, in an interview, Keith gave the impression that he was under no illusion about their popularity with the new-gen when he said, “The kids of today have no idea who we are.” Was this the reason that members of two of the most popular boybands of the ’90s have collaborated? “Not really," says Keith, adding, “We’re here for our fans from the early ’90s, who are all in their late 30s and 40s now. It’s for them to relive those times and know our side of the story. Until now, people in India have only seen us in videos on television, radio and social media or read about us in the papers, but they’re finally going to get to hear from us, ‘live’.” 
 
 The two are all set to play out a medley of the bands’ popular tracks. Adds Brian, “There will also be a lot of video content and clips on a big screen to remind the audiences about their time on our shows — a montage of 20-odd years in the business, basically.” In their debut tour in the country, the duo will also be performing in Bengaluru tomorrow. But that’s not the only thing on their mind. “We are looking forward to gorging on some sinful butter chicken, biryani and other such Indian delicacies. While we don’t have enough time on hand, we would have loved to visit the Taj Mahal,” says Brian.
 
 The duo has been touring different parts of the world for close to three years now. What led to them joining forces? Keith, who has been acting and is also actively involved in raising awareness on autism, shares, “I was going to do a show based on my career — going from Boyzone into Corrie (British soap opera 'Coronation Street') to narrate and share funny stories and relive all the things that happened. However, my plans changed when I went to see Brian perform right before Christmas. When I met him post his performance, we said, ‘Hang on! Why don’t we do it together instead of doing things on our own? It makes it a lot more interesting. He can interview me, I can interview him; we can share a laugh, do a couple of songs together, and get the crowd going.’ That’s how the idea was born!”
 
 Hinting at a possibility of coming up with fresh compositions, Brian says, “Bandmates of our respective bands have been quite supportive about the formation of this ‘super band’. Who knows? Next year we may have Kian (Egan, Westlife) and Shane (Lynch, Boyzone) jamming together or Mikey (Graham, Boyzone) and Mark (Feehily, Westlife) coming together. This (Boyzlife) is an open idea for anyone who wants to be a part of it. As we’re from two different bands, people often want to know if anyone else will join in. This year, though, it’s just about Keith and me.”
 Boyzone, which completes 25 years since they set out in 1993 (with a seven-year hiatus in between), will be embarking on an anniversary tour later this year. Giving us a hint of things to come, Keith shares, “I am super-excited and also sad about it. This will be our last tour together. Our new album (the lyrics for which have been penned by Ed Sheeran and Sam Smith) will also be the last for Boyzone. We’ve had 25 amazing years and we promise our fans that this will be our biggest and best year yet!”
 
 Ask them what’s in store for   and pat comes the reply. “Something exciting is surely coming up, stay tuned,” says Brian as he leaves us eager for the 
 gig tonight.
 
