MUMBAI: The   government has given a thumbs down to a proposal submitted by Hansraj Ahir, junior Union minister for home, for setting up cattle sanctuaries in the forested areas of Chandrapur, Yavatmal and   districts of   region. Ahir is an MP from Chandrapur.

 The idea behind the proposal was to rehabilitate abandoned cattle following the government ban on slaughter of bulls and bullocks which has since been rescinded. The other objective was to tackle theft and cattle-smuggling following the beef ban introduced in the state through the   (Amendment) Act, 1995. But the state forest department has rejected Ahir’s proposal, saying only wild animals can be a part of a sanctuary and not ‘cattle’, as it falls under the category of domestic animals. “Only the Centre can amend the law for setting up a domestic animal sanctuary on state forest land,” said a senior official from the forest department.
 
 Ahir wrote to Maharashtra in September 2017 and said following the beef ban, cattle trafficking had increased. Police have registered cases and seized smuggled cattle in parts of Vidarbha, especially in Chandrapur district.
 
 Before the beef ban was imposed, nearly three lakh heads of cattle used to be slaughtered a year in the state. “Even if a few of them have died due to old age or have been shifted to other states, there must be over two lakh still in existence,” said an official.
 
 Ahir was not available for comment State forest minister   told TOI the state has no right to set up a sanctuary on forest land. “We informed the Centre that they have to amend the Forest and Wildlife (Protection) Act, which comes under the jurisdiction of the Centre as it is not a state subject. The state doesn’t have the powers to use forest land,” said Mungantiwar.
 
 In January 2017, the then President   had given final approval to the Maharashtra Animal Preservation (Amendment) Bill, 1995, almost 19 years after the assembly passed it during Shiv Sena-BJP rule.
 
 Cow slaughter was previously prohibited in the state under the Maharashtra Animal Preservation Act, 1976. The amended Act banned the slaughter of bulls and bullocks as well, previously allowed based on a fit-forslaughter certificate.
 
