JAISALMER/JODHPUR: A 29-year-old mother of three daughters was reportedly set on fire by her husband and in-laws, who wanted a baby boy. The woman, who suffered 95% burns, succumbed during treatment at Jodhpur Government Hospital on Friday. Devyani was set on fire by her husband Gopal Krishan Raneja and his parents-Lichi Ram Raneja and Rukman Devi-at their home at Falsoond in Pokhran. 

 
 
 
 Originally from Pali district, Devyani married Gopal, who runs a shop, about 13 years ago. She was being harassed for a boy for long, alleged her father Kanhaiyalal. He has registered a complaint of murder against her in-laws. Suman Sharma, chairperson of the Rajasthan State Commission for Women, has also taken cognizance of the incident and sought a report from the Jaisalmer police.
 
 Kanhaiyalal alleged that she was constantly being tormented for not giving birth to a baby boy and threatened by her husband with remarriage. “When I reached the hospital on Thursday morning after receiving information that she had got burnt, she was breathing her last. She told me that her in-laws poured kerosene on her and burnt her,” said her father at the mortuary on Friday morning.
 
 According to Pokhran police, her in-laws claimed that she got burnt due to a gas cylinder leakage on Wednesday night. “They first took her to the primary health centre (PHC) of the village, from where she was referred to Jodhpur. Her father has lodged a case under Section 302 against husband Gopal Krishan, father-in-law Lichi Ram Raneja and mother-inlaw Rukman Devi. Police are investigating the case,” said Jaisalmer SP Gaurav Yadav. The husband has been detained by the police.
 
 A medical board was constituted to conduct the postmortem and the body has been handed over to relatives.
 
 Following the incident, Brahmin community members assembled at the hospital and demanded a fair investigation by the police.
 
 Neelam Moondra, member of the district women’s commission, also rushed to the hospital and sought information about the incident.
 
 
 
 
