MUMBAI: Two   residents have started filling up potholes and uneven patches on the Western Express Highway (WEH) at   after finding that the authorities have done nothing about the situation for long. The duo filled up nearly 10 uneven patches since Wednesday, concerned that road users might have to pay with their lives. 

 MMRDA, the agency responsible, told TOI they had appointed a contractor to maintain the stretch. Asked if the contractor had undertaken any work, the spokesperson did not seem to be aware. 
 
 “The highway is an arterial road and driving on it has become hell,” said Irfan  , one of the two Mahim residents who filled up the uneven patches. “We found the north-bound stretch, before the Bandra magistrate’s court signal, was particularly riddled with potholes and uneven patches. Two-wheeler riders experience severe jolts as they are forced to ride through these potholes.” 
 
 Besides the potholes, there is a mountain of debris, including bricks and broken paver blocks, piled on both carriageways of the highway. “We worked for two hours each on Wednesday and Thursday. From Mahim, we took a bike, loading it with shovels, containers and loose mud in bags,” said   who worked with Machhiwala. 
 
 From the mound of debris that lay there, they sieved out stuff that could help fill potholes and then carted debris in gunny bags to the spot and filled as many potholes as they could. “After a while, we had to halt as it was too hot.” 
 
 Ansari said the road situation has been bad for months on end. “It’s quite dangerous and we have shot videos of the road. All this while, we waited hoping that the authorities would act but they haven’t bothered. Not every motorist is aware of the location of potholes like we are,” said Ansari who navigates his bike to sidestep potholes. 
 
 If the authorities fail to do their bit to level these stretches, they plan to rope in other residents and extend their campaign to other roads. Machhiwala said that while citizens pay high taxes to the government, the infrastructure shows no sign of improvement.
 
