NEW DELHI: With the   mandated by the   concluding on Monday, the three corporations claimed to have together demolished 2,500 temporary and permanent structures, apart from impounding at least 1,500 vehicles and seizing over 4,000 articles.

 On the last day of the drive, TOI visited four prominent stretches — Aurobindo Marg, Laxmi Nagar market, Vivekananda Marg and DB Gupta Road — to gauge the public mood as well as to ascertain how successful the action had actually been.
 
 One couldn’t be faulted for assuming that the demolition men had never struck at Aurobindo Marg. Illegally parked vehicles appeared to have reclaimed their “rightful place” at the Yusuf Sarai market. As one proceeded to DB Gupta Marg in Karol Bagh, one found that jhuggis had returned to exactly the same place from where they were removed.
 
 According to official figures, though, the   impounded 428 vehicles, demolished 778 permanent and temporary encroachments on pavements and roads and seized 1,445 articles, such as wooden chairs, tables and tin sheds, over two weeks. 
  
  
 North corporation, on the other hand, impounded 636 vehicles, demolished 705 temporary and permanent structures and seized 2,764 articles. Till May 9, east corporation removed 207 permanent and temporary structures, seized 302 articles and impounded 273 vehicles.   officials said they were yet to compile the 14-day data. 
 
 The third meeting of the SC-formed special task force was held on Monday where   officials claimed to have demolished 696 structures and cleared 220km of road across east, west, north and south zones. They said 11,043 sqm of footpath area was reclaimed. DDA also claimed to have got back 31.50 acre of land.
 
 Many residents TOI spoke to, however, asserted that unless such drives were made a routine affair, they would not serve the desired purpose. Raj Kumar Tarani, an RWA member from Janakpuri, slammed the corporations for what he called an “eyewash”. He said: “The numbers are being boosted to please the courts. No permanent structures have been demolished. It is difficult to even walk on some of the main stretches here.” 
 
 B S Vohra, who heads the east RWA joint front, said a monitoring mechanism needed to be put in place. “The action was initiated in our area on the very last day of the drive,” he claimed.
 
 Jasbir Chaddha from the United residents Joint Action of Delhi — a network of more than 2,500 RWAs — said authorities were pushed into action by the judiciary every fourth or fifth year, and this was not the solution. “The same officers who are responsible for this mess have been entrusted with the task of clearing it. What we need are permanent assembly-level monitoring committees, each manned by a few retired defence personnel who are given powers. This will lead to a meaningful change,” Chaddha said.
 
 Sewa Ram, professor of transport planning at SPA, said the city would not be in such a mess if the informal sector had been looked at in a more planned manner. “UTTIPEC has created a concept of multi-utility zone that has space for the informal sector, but the courts are going by existing regulations and provisions.” 
 
 He argued that vendors couldn’t be done without, but streets had never been designed accordingly. Merely declaring places spots as no-vending or no-parking zones won’t help. “We have to provide space based on utility and actual characteristics. A cobbler, for example, can’t be asked to go where there is no footfall.”
 
 
