I read the news today, oh boy/ about a lucky man who made the grade. Unfortunately, that was not the news I was reading when I wrote this. That was The Beatles singing A day in the life, as divorced from my present reality as it could be. My news came from a daily telling me of a 71-year-old man arrested as a pickpocket in Ultadanga. The man himself came from Muraripukur. My reality? Ultadanga is just a transit point for me to get to the airport or Salt Lake. I had no idea where Muraripukur was, but the usual search engine ramble revealed it to be next door to Ultadanga. A decade or so younger than the pickpocket, I can only guess his reality. I suppose when the options of begging and borrowing run out, stealing is all that's left. So there you have it, an unlucky man who will never make the grade.
Of course there have been others in Calcutta's hoary past who did make the grade. And there are those who right now, as you read these words, are pushing their luck to make it. 
 “When I consider Life, ’tis all a cheat;
 Yet, fooled with hope, 
 men favour the deceit;
 Trust on, and think to-morrow 
 will repay:
 To-morrow’s falser than the former day;
 Lies worse; and while it says, 
 we shall be blest
 With some new joys, cuts off what we possesst.” As  , the 17th century English poet realised. 
 The ones that come to mind first are the financial scams, the chit funds, pyramid marketing, and their like. Around 40 years ago we had the Sanchayita swindle started by two junior RBI clerks,   and Swapan Guha, who were advised by a businessman,  . I believe money is still being paid back to the mainly small depositors. And lest we forget, it was the late Ashok Mitra, then Bengal Finance Minister, who initiated the enquiry and action against Sanchayita.
 According to one newspaper report, the Saradha Ponzi scam of a couple of years ago makes the Sanchayita swindle pale in comparison. It is valued at a billion US dollars when the state’s debt burden is $30 billion. “People from every social bracket — the flag-bearers of Bengal’s intelligentsia, bureaucrats, sports administrators, media magnates, industrialists and politicians — accepted or extracted favours, depending on one’s degree of access to power. An absurd transfer of wealth — reminiscent of the drain of resources from India to England before Independence — from the poor to the rich was orchestrated in the countryside”. So says an editorial in The Hindu.
 A friend reading over my shoulder remarks that maybe the biggest scam is us constrained to democratically elect some of these scamsters to form, and more frighteningly, reform our laws. However, without skating on thin ice any further, let’s take a quick look at Ms Priyanka Pugalia. In the years between 2010 and 2013, she ran a number of swindles in our city. She caught on to one with much promise — aspiring, middle-class Bengalis and their passion for education. School admissions, jobs, electronic goods of desire. She disappeared with a crore or more and is yet to be apprehended, nor is there any news of her online after 2013, once one dismisses same-name social media profiles that pop up.
 The most colourful swindle of recent times, though not of Calcutta, is the ‘alien rice-puller’ one. This involved the father-son swindler duo somehow making use of fake space suits and selling a vague, faux-Hindu myth to not just gullible, but unimaginably stupid businessmen as well as an elected legislator all of whom, personally speaking, deserved what they got. This one would have looked particularly good in the annals of Calcutta’s crime stories. Not that there is a lack of stories. 
 It seems an advertisement in a Calcutta newspaper of 1786 went asking for pirates, those “who are ambitious of making an honourable independence by the plunder of enemies of their country”. These days the sentence can be full-stopped at ‘enemies’.
 The first big financial scam of independent India was in 1950s Calcutta, perpetrated by  , a city-based stock speculator. It ended up “exposing the nexus between the bureaucracy, stock market speculators and small rogue businessmen”, and at the same time highlighted a rift between Nehru and his son-in-law, Feroze Gandhi. Our Vijay Mallya (also quite Calcutta-connected), Sudipto Sen, Nirav Modi, Dhoot, and others have mentors galore. We like calling these happenings ‘scandals’. While it does define the nature, to my mind the word softens the impact of the deed, placing it in the same league as Bollywood actors indulging in sneakily publicised adultery. These are out-and-out robbery crimes and should be only seen as such. The general consensus on where we stand as the electorate, whether we are accessories to a crime when we press the EVM button on known criminals and their political parties, is still awaited.
 Steely Dan were an American band founded by Donald Fagen and Walter Becker, backed by a host of amazing session musicians, who left a major impression on popular contemporary music. The band name comes from William Burroughs’ novel Naked Lunch, where the term is used for a giant, steam-powered phallus substitute. Their fifth album in 1976 was called The Royal Scam. Considered a satire on the American Dream, the album peaked at number 15 on the charts and went gold. “See the glory/ Of the royal scam/ By the blackened wall/ He does it all/ He thinks he’s died and gone to heaven/ Now the tale is told/ By the old man back home...”
 To reach the author, write to patrick.ghose@gmail.com
 
