BENGALURU: The recent death of three men while cleaning a sewage treatment plant ( ) in an apartment complex in southeast Bengaluru has raised fresh problems over the design and maintenance of these plants. The BWSSB has made STPs mandatory in apartment complexes with more than 50 units, but residents say there are neither guidelines on the appropriate technology to be used to build them, nor are there dos and don’ts on how to maintain them.

 The   ( ) does have a set of guidelines on its website, but these were framed in 2011 and are relevant only for conventional STPs. STPs in most apartments in Bengaluru are based on sequencing batch reactor ( ) technology where waste water is treated in batches and each batch is sequenced through a series of treatment charges.
 
 In conventional STPs, solids are first separated from the waste water. The dissolved biological matter is then converted into a solid mass by using indigenous, water-borne micro-organisms. Finally, the biological solids are neutralized and disposed of. The treated water may be disinfected chemically or physically through microfiltration. 
 
  
 “Apartments engage plumbing agencies to construct STPs and they are no experts,” said an expert, who has been working with STPs. “STPs are a perennial headache in terms of maintenance. An apartment complex of 100 units requires an STP with a per-day capacity of 100 kilo litre. The complex will need to shell out Rs 4,500 on maintenance every day.”
 
 Dr Ananth S Kodavasal, founder and director of EcoTech Engineering, who was tasked by the KSPCB to study SBR technology and draw up recommendations, revealed his report is gathering dust. “It took me nearly six months to study the new STPs and devise guidelines,”   said. “I submitted the guidelines in February 2013, but these guidelines are yet to see the light of the day.”
 
 Kodavasal said there are inherent problems with most new STPs, including those based on SBR. “Nearly 80-85 % of STPs in the city have become dysfunctional, adding to pollution of lakes and other water bodies,” he said. “These STPs utilize inappropriate and unsuitable technologies such as SBR.”
 
 Sources in the know said the apartment in Bandepalya, where the three men died on Sunday, was based on SBR technology. “There is utter ignorance and lack of knowledge on STPs among plumbing consultants who build them and the agencies that blindly approve these plants,” said Kodavasal, who has been working in the STP sector since 1986.
 
 KSPCB member-secretary G V Ranga Rao, however, insisted that STP guidelines are on the department website. When questioned about residents’ complaints that the guidelines were inadequate, he said, “The agency or manufacturer will provide the maintenance guidelines.”
 
 
 
 Bengaluru: Residents welfare associations of apartment complexes across the city have been taken aback by the turn of events following the Bandepalya tragedy. Eight members of the Bandepalya apartment owners association were arrested by the police, who claimed the deaths were caused by their negligence.
 
 “Why are apartments being saddled with responsibilities like setting up and maintaining STPs,” wondered Srikanth Narasimhan, general secretary, Bengaluru Apartments’ Federation (BAF). “Nowhere else in India does a situation like this prevail. There are no guidelines in place for RWAs to follow while constructing and maintaining STPs. It’s the RWAs themselves who are shouldering the responsibility and talking to the agencies.”
 
 In December 2017, the association had met the authorities of BWSSB and KSPCB seeking guidelines and clarifications on various related issues. 
 
 
