PATIALA:  , a resident of   in  , rushed to   after his 24-year-old daughter, who had gone "missing" from her house on March 14 was traced to the city. 

 The police found Jessica Doody in Patiala where she was staying with her boyfriend, Gurdeep and his family. On his social media page, her father had posted on March 27 that his daughter "Jessica, who was last seen on March 14, was intellectually-challenged." He claimed that Jessica was autistic and had mental age of a 14-year-old. Craig wanted to take her back home to New Zealand as he feared for her safety in India.
 
 Jessica's family had reported her missing on March 19 and the Kiwi police got in touch with the Interpol to trace her. They tracked her passport and found she had landed in New Delhi via Guangzhou in China. They also discovered that she had travelled to Patiala from New Delhi.
 
 The New Zealand high commission got in touch with the NRI wing of the Punjab police and Jessica was traced to a house in Sarabha Nagar in Patiala.
 
 However, much to her father's disappointment, Jessica refused to leave for New Zealand. Craig claimed in a social media post on March 27 that she had been "severely brainwashed" by her boyfriend Gary aka Gurdeep, who was deported from New Zealand in December last year due to some visa irregularities. Gurdeep had gone to New Zealand on a student visa and then moved to a work visa. Jessica and Gurdeep met in Christchurch two years ago and were in a steady relationship.
 
 Craig, who could not produce any documents to prove his claim that his daughter was autistic, also criticized the   government. "Sadly, I was unable to talk to her properly as the Indian police laid the rules down. We have organised someone to keep an eye on her while she stays there. Unfortunately, the New Zealand government has let Jessica down."
 
 The NRI wing AIG Ranjit Singh said Jessica had travelled to India on legal documents and was a major, so no action could be taken against her or her boyfriend. He added that Jessica had spoken to the New Zealand high commission in New Delhi and the diplomats there were completely satisfied with her statement.
 
 Gurdeep Singh's father Bhagwant Singh said Jessica had arrived at their house about 15 days ago and they were called to the NRI police station on Thursday where they all gave their statements on the issue.
 
 
