NAGPUR: With the end of Nagpur University’s (NU) Senate election process last Wednesday, all eyes are now set on the Management Council polls, which would be conducted on February 28.

 However, the graduates’ constituency results threw an unexpected surprise in the NU circles and proved many predictions wrong. Thanks to newly formed Senate   (SPP) which not only made its impressive debut but also played a spoilsport for many powerful players like Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad ( ) and Vidyapeeth Vidyarthi Sangram Parishad (VVSP), both having stronghold on this constituency till last year.
 
 NU officials and academicians, who are witnessing the polls since the last many decades, favoured ABVP which was backed by Shikshan Manch, and VVSP that had forged jumbo alliance with Secular Panel, Young Teachers Association (YTA) and Padvidhar Mahasangh (PM) for sharing the honours in graduates constituency’s ten seats.
 
 Some of them had predicted a landslide win for ABVP considering its strong cadre among the voters and hoped for only a couple of seats to jumbo alliance, including that of VVSP convener Manmohan Bajpayee.
 
 No one granted even an outside chance to SPP, considering the fact that it hadn’t got a big leader like its rivals which had backing of stalwarts like senior academicians Dr Vedprakash Mishra heading SP, Baban Taywade leading the YTA, and former mayor Kalpana Pande, who was in-charge of the saffron alliance.
 
 But SPP, which describes itself as a students’ forum for protection of their rights in university and for human rights, proved everyone wrong by grabbing two seats, that too from open category.   and Prashant Dekate emerged winners by trouncing their rivals from both alliances.
 
 In most of the remaining seats, SSP’s candidates finished close second, thus giving a scare to the established players. Its leaders said that if over thousand of their forms weren’t cancelled by the NU administration, they would have bagged at least six seats.
 
 The SPP, formed recently, had decided to enter the polls by contesting all ten seats and was the only one not to have forged alliance with anyone, though it had an outside support of Babasaheb Ambedkar Students Association (BASA). It was, however, backed by the students and NU employees.
 
 Though no one officially came out on who was controlling SPP, sources claimed a senior NU official was the brain behind the panel. With his rich experience in conducting polls, he adopted a smart strategy to bring honours for SPP candidates, which relegated the jumbo alliance candidates to third position.
 
 It would be interesting to see with whom the SPP would slide as it would determine majority of elected members in the Senate till nominations are completed by the VC. Though it shares ideologies with SP, nothing can be said in politics.
 
 Recently, bitter rivals SP and YTA, who fought Senate and Academic Council polls separately and shared equal honours, had joined hands to defeat the SM and ABVP combine. The jumbo alliance members, however, blamed SPP for splitting their votes that had directly benefited the saffron alliance.
 
 
