CHANDIGARH: If you think publishing journals in   (PU) is a cakewalk, think twice. In a first,   is all set to adopt a   policy for journals to be prepared by the research promotion cell (RPC).

  
  
 
 According to the draft of the new policy, authors will be asked to either put the reference material in the form of a quote or write it entirely in their own words. The author will have to explicitly cite the source, including the specific page number in the case of a quote or a particular point. All the submitted manuscripts for publication are checked for plagiarism after submission and before starting review.
 
 “Now, the author will know beforehand that this is what the chief editor of the journal can do if the paper is found to be plagiarised. The research promotion cell had been working on this for long and PU is finally ready with this journal-specific plagiarism policy, which is different from the plagiarism policy,” said M Rajivlochan, editor, research journal (arts), and director, internal quality assurance cell (IQAC), PU.
 
 The policy states that if plagiarism is more than 50%, it would lead to immediate rejection of the manuscript. This would also invite prohibition against all authors for any new submissions to any journal published either individually or in combination with other authors of the manuscript, as well as in combination with any other authors. Moreover, such authors won’t be allowed to serve on the editorial board of PU journal.
 
 
 
 The policy said, “If an author submits a manuscript to PU journal with significant overlap with another manuscript submitted to another journal simultaneously, the case is treated as a severe plagiarism case.”
 
 The editor-in-chief is the primary means of detecting plagiarism in manuscripts submitted to PU journal and complainants shall bring cases of suspected author misconduct to the attention of the executive editor. Recently, four journals of PU were removed from the approved list. The PU journals removed from   list included its Punjabi, English, science journals.
 
 A Panjab University (PU) committee had recommended that an overall similarity index up to 20% should be acceptable while checking theses for plagiarism using Turnitin software. This implied even if 20.5% of a PhD dissertation is found similar to some other work, it would be considered plagiarised.
 
 
