MYSURU: Complaints ranging from civic issues to employment were taken note of during the   programme of the   here on Thursday.

 In all 15 complaints were received during the third such programme held by DC  .
 
 From non-availability of buses, violation of labour laws to an MSIL outlet causing public nuisance, complaints poured in from various parts of the city and the district.
 
 Highlighting the plight of students and teachers of Chilkunda near Periyapatna due to KSRTC buses not providing stoppage, Nisarga from Chilkunda appealed to the DC to ensure adequate stops are given for students and children to board the buses. Directing the KSRTC official to resolve the issue, the DC said, “The issue should be brought to the notice of the Hunsur depot manager and it should be ensured that a bus stop is provided in Chilkunda.”
 
 Similarly, Girish, a resident of   complained to the DC about non-availability of buses from Mysuru to Bannur from the last 15 days, to which the DC said, “I will ensure that more city buses ply on the route.”
 
 Raising an alarm over an MSIL outlet in KR Nagar’s Gandanahalli, Ravish said, “The MSIL outlet is creating a nuisance by serving liquor. The outlet is situated very close to educational institutes.”
 
 Promising to take action against the owners of the outlet, the DC said, “MSIL outlets are not allowed to serve drinks. People can only buy liquor and take it. If you send photos of the outlet illegally serving liquor, we will take action.”
 
 Distressed over the government hospital in T.Narsipur’s Sosale village not being thrown open to public, Mahadeva Shetty said, “Though the project was taken up four years ago, the hospital has not been opened yet.”
 
 Enquiring about the status of the project from the district health officer, the DC said, “Around 10% of the work still remains pending owing to which the hospital has not been opened to the public. We will ensure it is completed and inaugurated soon.”
 
 Manjunath M, a daily wage labourer who works at   and Varnish, alleged that workers at the indelible ink manufacturing unit were being exploited by not paying minimum wages to the workers. “Many people have been employed as ‘bottle fillers’, but are forced to work in all the other departments and paid a daily wage of just Rs 210,” said Manjunath.
 
 Assuring him of looking into the matter, the DC said, “I will direct the labour department to address the issue as the labour norms seem to have been violated in this case.”
 
 
