GANDHINAGAR: Stray cattle are an unpleasant reality on Ahmedabad roads and can potentially cause anything from traffic jams to fatal accidents. The state government now feels that such cattle, belonging to residents of cities, should be shifted at least 20km outside cities, to special cattle hostels. CM Vijay Rupani on Tuesday said the government will provide land for cattle   at token prices, to each of the eight municipal corporation in the state.

 The plan was first mooted for Ahmedabad in March 2016 and by September last year the government mulled over extending the scheme to all   cities. The new Gujarat Gaupalak Vikas Nigam scheme will see Rs 6.77 crore worth of loans disbursed to 513 cattle owners from the Bharwad and Rabari communities.
 
  
 There is a catch, however. The   economy relies heavily the animals being fed fresh grass bought by devotees for Rs 10 or Rs 15 and even leftover food at junctions and in residential areas. Such urban pastoralists hence do not have to bother about spending on cattle fodder. “Their milk is then sold. The money earned from the milk is loaned out at hefty interest rates. If we shift the hostels outside the city, the Maldharis will protest,” says a senior Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) official. He added such cattle owners would also have to travel to the hostels, to attend to their animals.
 
 Rupani said the government will provide electricity, water, sheds and other amenities at these cattle hostels, besides assistance of up to Rs 3 lakh for each hostel, for up to 5,000 cattle hostels. The government has also allocated Rs140 crore for this in this year’s budget. 
 
 In Ahmedabad, the civic body earmarked Rs 1 crore for identifying land in three zones of the city, mainly plots in the New West, North and East zones, for the nearly 45,000 heads of stray cattle and 23,482 cattle owners.
 
 “Each cattle head will be tagged with an RFID tag and their owners will be fined or even jailed if they allow their animals to stray.” Officials at the civic body said a special set of rules will be framed to deal with the cattle menace. Social justice minister Ishwar Parmar said the Gopalak Nigam had disbursed Rs 43.65 crore as assistance or loans to 7,340 beneficiaries between 2002-03 and 2017-18.
 
 Minister of state for social justice Vasan Ahir said cattle owners had long been neglected but things took a turn for the better under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
 
 
