Yuval Noah Harari, the Israeli historian, once said, “It’s not about predicting the future, it’s only about exploring possibilities.” Ayan Banik – head of brand strategy, Cheil India – says he is no futurist, but believes that everything in the world happens for a reason. “What fascinates me are the possible reasons behind the not-so-connected events around me,” said Banik, who last month, in ‘Ad Land Gurgaon’, spoke about how   Enabled Internet of Things ( ) will revolutionalise the way we live, especially in our interactions with the marketplace. Here, he tells Sharad Kohli about what exactly the future entails, and the technologies that will influence our destinies.

 Many big names are moving out of their comfort zones…
 
 It’s no coincidence that a pure play e-commerce marketplace gets into AI (Artificial Intelligence) enabled hardware. Or that a pure play software company revives its smartphone dreams. Or, even, that the largest social networking platform ventures into a close community marketplace in select countries. These are not classical ‘line extensions’, nor are they random business diversifications. These are well-calculated steps taken by some of the best brains in their bid to rule our future.
 
 So, how will Arjun and Madhu be buying in the future?
 
 Thanks to food-delivery apps, we have already moved Google Search from our first point of interaction to a remote second. Currently, we have multiple choices but all these choices demand a series of tasks, which are slightly more complex and time-consuming than just speaking out aloud and getting it done.
 
 In a ‘zero screen’ world, all we need is a voice-enabled hardware that connects to a marketplace and a payment portal. So, this is how it will work: All we do is activate a hardware interface and everything is done by the power of our voice, complex AI algorithms and Internet of Things (IoT). We say, “Hi Alexa, we want to order in Chinese tonight”. Alexa will throw us all possible options that are available on a service, with ratings, reviews and menus. We pick a restaurant, order food, pay with   Pay account, and because we happen to be an Amazon Prime customer, get our food delivered to our doorstep in precisely 15 minutes – all through the power of our voice. Now, replace Chinese food with apparel, jewellery, fruit and vegetables, groceries, even baby diapers – this is exactly how e-com transactions will be carried out in the future.
 
 Who, then, does the future belong to?
 
 The future belongs to any brand that has a captive consumer base created through either a marketplace or VeIoT hardware – like a smartphone or a ‘smart speaker’. It’s no coincidence that an upcoming smartphone brand is hard-focusing on bettering its voice-enabled services. Or that Paytm is aggressively pushing Paytm Mall. Or that Facebook is desperately trying to give something more meaningful than social currency to retain its captive consumer base through Facebook Marketplace.
 
 And who is at the forefront of this future?
 
 A Amazon is far ahead in this game. Come to think of it, Amazon already has a very well-established marketplace sweetened with Amazon Prime Delivery. It is aggressively pushing ‘Pay’ and has priced ‘Echo’ very competitively, to close the seamless voice-enabled transaction ecosystem. That day is not too far when we will speak through Echo, search and shop through Amazon, pay through Amazon Pay and get it delivered in a jiffy through Amazon Prime. So, Amazon will rule not just our wallets and cupboards but our choices, decisions and future lives, by confining and eliminating our conscious decision-making.
 
 
