UDAIPUR: Home minister Gulab Chand  , also the legislator from Udaipur city, has been facing a tough time dealing with public grievances for three days in a row. Kataria, who is on a seven-day Jan Sampark schedule, ahead of the assembly elections by visiting several wards across the city, is facing mass opposition and displeasure of the common man. 

 However, instead of pacifying the people, at some places, the minister happened to infuriate the people even more by his sharp remarks. Meanwhile, in a conversation with the media, Kataria claimed, it’s not the common people but the   supporters who are taking this opportunity to create a scene by breaking matkas and blocking roads. 
 
 “I am going ward to ward to find out the real situation in colonies and meeting people to know their problems. Lot of work has been done during last four years, however, some petty problems continue to persist everywhere and Udaipur is no exception. Tremendous development works have been completed and so many are going on in and around the city,” Kataria told reporters on Wednesday.
 
 Looking at the constant mass opposition, security has been beefed up for the minister who on Wednesday visited several areas with quite a big team of policemen to handle any emergency situation. While the   supporters have been planning 'swagat' rituals to greet the MLA in the area, people on the other hand are getting vocal and raising their voices over issues reeling in their localities like water scarcity, inadequate drainage, sever line blockage, bad roads, menace of street dogs and pigs etc. 
 
 On Tuesday, women in ward number 36 expressed their anger by waving black scarfs and raising slogans at him. Shipra Upadhyaya,a former congress councillor had raised the issue of dirty water supply in the area and showed a pot full of foul smelling muddy water. Instead of instructing the authorities to look into the matter, Kataria snapped at the woman and asked whether she had come to apprise problems faced by the residents or just to get pictures clicked for publicity. Irked by the remarks, women raised slogans and waived black duppattas to show their discontent. 
 
 On another occasion, people at Tekri area blocked roads and burnt tyres over problems they said, have been overlooked by authorities for years now. People said dirty water is entering homes for lack of proper drainage however, councillor has never bothered to resolve the issue. People also alleged that the councillors and the partymen are not letting Kataria visit problems prone areas and taking him to localities that are comparatively better and not having grave problems. 
 
 
