GIDDERBAHA (MUKTSAR): After waiving off debt of small and marginal farmers, the Punjab government is exploring the option to write off loans of farm labourers. An official decision about it is expected to be taken after the Shahkot assembly by-election. The government has calculated the debt of nearly Rs 300 crore that would be waived off.

 The government is mulling the option of writing off Rs 25,000 debt per farm labourer family, though a final decision is yet to be taken. This was revealed by Punjab cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh   on Wednesday at Gidderbaha town of Muktsar while kick-starting the scheme of distributing certificates of   to farmers at sub-divisional level.
 
 Randhawa said since the government was midway in waiving off the debt of 10.25 lakh farmers, similar drive for farm labourers would follow soon. He made it clear that even those small and marginal farmers, who were left out in the earlier phase of debt waiver, would also be covered.
 
 Accompanied by Gidderbaha MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring and deputy speaker in the state assembly Ajaib Singh Bhatti, Randhawa said though initially the state government had promised debt waiver for famers, it was sympathetically looking towards farm labourers.
 
 Apart from debt waiver, the minister had to face heat over corruption in the multi-purpose cooperative agriculture service societies.   workers raised the issue of a nexus between presidents and secretaries of the cooperative societies.
 
 They alleged that due to such nexus, secretaries and presidents were eating up society resources, and even purchased many items from the grey market. They said small farmers failed to get many of the items, including fertilisers from societies, and were forced to purchase these from the open market at higher rates.
 
 Warring said most of the societies in the area, especially in   assembly constituency of former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal, were in the red and become defaulters but Badal never cared for that.
 
 Let’s approach Modi: Randhawa to Badal
 
 Taking on former CM Parkash Singh Badal, Punjab cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said they were all for the waiver but the Union government was not providing any support. “I call upon Badal to use his good offices and personal influence to prevail upon Prime Minister Narendra Modi in writing off loans of the Punjab farmers. I am ready to go to Badal residence barefoot if he accompanies us to Modi for this wider cause for the welfare of farmers.”
 
 
