Prime Minister   will inaugurate a ₹50-crore building on Baba Gangnath Marg in Delhi on March 6 which will house the Central Information Commission (CIC) complete with state-of-the-art videoconferencing stations and facilities to address public grievances.
 
  This comes amid increasing criticism by the opposition parties that the government is slashing funding to throttle the Right to Information Act (RTI). The   has alleged that the Modi government has reduced funds for promoting use of the transparency law and that a large number of   applications are being rejected, a claim the government has summarily rejected.
  
  With the PM inaugurating the new building, the government hopes to dispel claims that it is discouraging the use of RTI Act, officials said.
  
  “The Centre is keen that its intent on allowing complete transparency in the system is known to people and hence the PM himself will inaugurate the new premises of the CIC,” said a senior government official, who did not wish to be identified. Although the CIC, the custodian of the RTI Act, had started using audio conferencing and videoconferencing to hear cases seven years ago, many RTI activists in smaller cities are still not aware of the existence of this facility, which will now be publicised, the official said.
  
  “After shifting the office from old JNU premises to a larger space in Baba Gangnath Marg with better outreach facilities, the focus will now be complete digitisation, setting up of video conferencing facilities in remote centres, preparation of publicity material on RTI, setting up of call centres and establishment of transparency wings and accountability studies for CIC,” he said.
  
  A CIC official said that before the PM’s visit efforts are being made to digitise all records and slot public grievances on time. “Till now, because everything was manually recorded, some files had gone missing, which too have been revived and digitised,” the official said.
  
  He said this is being done to address the issue of “file missing”, a frequently cited reason for not answering RTI queries.
  
  At the Centre, the Prime Minister’s Office and the ministries of home and finance get the bulk of RTI queries.
  
  In 2015, Prime Minister Modi, while addressing a two-day national convention to mark 10 years of RTI, had asked government departments to ensure timeliness, transparency and troublefree approach while replying to RTI applications, as this would help reduce errors in governance.
  
  
