NEW DELHI: To show solidarity with the ongoing   against alleged assault on chief secretary  , Delhi government school teachers wore black bands to work and silent protests were observed at government offices on Saturday. 

 The joint forum of employees and   of the government met cabinet secretary PK Sinha and apprised him about the “difficult working conditions” in the AAP-led Delhi government. 
 
 “At the  , the episode over the past few years and the immediate one with Anshu Prakash were detailed. The issues of freedom to dissent, work in harmony and disposal of government work as per rules were outlined,” the forum said in a statement. 
 
 “The cabinet secretary assured all employees of complete administrative and moral support. However, he cautioned that citizens should not be put to inconvenience and delivery of services should go on, to which all the officers assured complete dedication,” the statement said. The forum has IAS, DANICS, DASS and other government employee associations on board. 
 
 The officers reiterated that they would continue to observe a peaceful protest for five minutes at lunch time (1.30pm) till the political executive takes tangible action to assure their “personal dignity and safety would be assured during meetings”. The officers have been demanding an apology from the chief minister, Arvind Kejriwal, citing that the alleged assault by AAP MLAs happened in front of him. 
 
 Meanwhile, a twitter handle under the name of Delhi Government Employees Association, which came up since the officers started protest, tweeted “Today, in all Delhi government schools teachers wore a black band to register their protest.” Pictures of the protest by officers observing silence and the black band wearing teachers at schools were also shared. 
 
 Twitter was flooded with views of IAS officers who have been active from their handles. Varsha Joshi, Delhi’s transport commissioner and power secretary IAS officer, for instance said, “Just because one needs change in a democracy, because one needs fresh thinking and ideas to frame policy, does that require the government servants who are the permanent executive to be tossed aside? Or to be treated as enemy? Or to be beaten up?” 
 
 
