SHIMLA: The issue regarding sanctioning of 69   sanctioned for Himachal Pradesh was raised in the state assembly during question hour.   legislature party leader Mukesh   said that right before the assembly elections national highways were announced to benefit the   in the polls.

 “These are political highways, even those which are not even district roads have been declared as national highways (NHs),” he said and questioned the BJP government from where Rs 65,000 crore funds would come for these roads having a total length of 4,210 km. Congress legislators, including Mukesh Agnihotri, Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu and Satpal Singh Raizada, had asked the question about the total number of (NHs) sanctioned by the government of India, amount to be spent on them and date to complete their detailed projects reports. 
 
 In his reply, chief minister   said that in principal, 69 NHs have been sanctioned for Himachal Pradesh during the last three years and amount to be spent on their construction would be finalized after preparing the detailed project reports. He further said that the Centre had sanctioned Rs 270 crore to prepare detailed project reports of these NHs. He said that eight months had been fixed as the timeframe to prepare detailed project report. 
 
 Agnihotri said that these NHs were ‘political highways’ as before elections a Union minister was invited to announce 69 NHs. He said that those which were neither village, district or state roads were declared as NHs. He said that the BJP leaders made tall claims about the Rs 65,000 crore project brought to the state. He expressed his doubt on the completion of these projects having a total road length of 4,210km even in the next 50 years. 
 
 Jai Ram said that NHs were sanctioned one and half years before the assembly elections. He said that in one-and-a-half years the previous Congress regime could float outsourcing tenders for eight detailed project reports only while his government had floated outsourcing tenders to prepare detailed project reports of 43 NHs in just three months. He said that by March 31, tenders would be floated for the detailed project reports of all 69 NHs.
 
 Agnihotri said that in his reply Jai Ram had tried to play politics. The chief minister said that funds would be provided only after detailed project reports were prepared. He said that sanctioning of NHs for the state had nothing to do with politics. He added that Himachal Pradesh lacked rail and air connectivity and NHs were must for the development of state, especially for tourism promotion.
 
 
