Chennai: Choreographer-turned-actor Raghava   on Sunday announced his   for politician   and promised to be the guardian that the superstar wants his fans and supporters to be.

 “When my thalaivar (leader) unfurls his party flag, political leaders will be left befuddled. Politics will soon be cleaned up and made simple,” said Lawrence, who choreographed the superstar’s dance moves in ‘Baba’ (2002).
 
 Meanwhile, actors Rajinikanth and Kamal Haasan shared the stage on the occasion of the star event ‘Natchathira Vizha’ in Kaula Lampur, Malaysia, where the two fielded questions on cinema, politics and spirituality.
 
 When actor and comedian Vivek quizzed Rajini if he felt he missed out on the political opportunity that came his way in 1996, Rajini replied, “I have not worried about it even for a second.”
 
 The superstar went on to add that he does not want to end his life as an actor. “I want to do more with my life. My wish is to serve the people who gave me my livelihood.”
 
 Addressing more than 50,000 spectators at the venue, Kamal Haasan declared that social circumstances dragged him into politics. When the rationalist was asked if he ever felt the need for spirituality in his life, Kamal Haasan said, “I will never resort to communalism. I will only go further in my rationalistic outlook as I grow older and wiser.”
 
 Rajini, who is set to practise ‘spiritual politics’, said, “You cannot base your actions on astrological predictions. If we play the role assigned by God with integrity, good things will happen.” The 67-year-old treaded with caution. “I will talk when needed (about politics),” Rajini said.
 
 The 63-year old Kamal Haasan recalled his mother getting worried about his future when he was growing up. “When I was about 13 years old, my mother worried a lot about me and consulted astrologers. I went on to prove most of the predictions made by the astrologers wrong. It is only because I had great teachers like K Balachander.”
 
 Sharing his political vision, Kamal said, “My politics is your voice. You are my voice. Seek not leaders. Seek talent that can serve you.” 
 
 
