

 
 We have extended free dialysis facilities up to sub-divisional level in the state. The government has earmarked Rs 1 crore during the current fiscal to set up 68 additional dialysis units in 28 centres across the state for providing free treatment. Besides, we have set up 240 wellness centres to extend standardized secondary healthcare services to the people.
 
 
 
 Trauma care centres are critical to saving lives during accidents when a patient needs immediate life support. The government is working on a project to construct five new state-of-the-art trauma centres at various places across the state. The planning is underway and you can expect construction to start soon.
 
 
 
 The department is running a number of drug deaddiction centres where free-ofcost assistance is being provided to addicts. A large number of addicts have been already been rehabilitated and we have also launched an outpatient opioid assisted treatment programme under which free medicines are provided to patients suffering from drug addiction. The project has been launched in three districts of Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Moga on a pilot basis and 26 centres have been opened where around 600 patients are getting free medicines daily.
 
 
 
 Punjab is the first state to have started  , under which free treatment for the patients has been made available in 22 district hospitals and three medical colleges. The Union government has appreciated the efforts being made by us in this regard and has asked the other states to adopt our model. Approximately 40,000 patients have been enrolled for treatment of Hepatitis C and the state has registered a cure rate of 92%.
 
 
 
 A re-structured universal health insurance cover is being launched by the end of this year for which the government has set aside Rs 100 crore for the underprivileged. The scheme would cover tertiary care treatment that previously was not covered.
 
 Oral hygiene and dental facilities have been largely neglected by the Punjab government.
 
 Not anymore. In 2018-19, we are coming up with advanced dental implant treatment centres. A proposal to recruit dentists is already under consideration of the government and the process is expected to be started soon. I assure you, there would be no dearth of medical facilities in any given stream of healthcare, including Ayurveda and Unani systems of treatment.
 
 
 
 Under the  , the government will launch medicine shops in 22 district hospitals and 41 sub-divisional healthcare centres along with the three medical colleges in Punjab. Once these shops become operational, people will start getting medicines at cheaper rates.
 
 
 
 Punjab is the first and only state in India to have launched the ‘e-Rakt Kosh (eblood bank)’ to provide online information on 45 blood banks in the state. Under this scheme, people will have easy access of the blood availability status of a certain blood group in blood banks and districts. It will also give details about blood donation camps, registration of voluntary blood donors to create donor repository, the location of nearest blood banks and other relevant information. All this information could be obtained by logging in at eraktkosh.in or by downloading the e-Rakt Kosh mobile app from Google Play store. In the next phase, all 59 private blood banks of Punjab will also be linked to the software.
 
 
 We are undertaking special projects to control the infant and mother mortality rate with the launch of 1,000-day comprehensive mother and child healthcare programme. There is a cancer screening programme presently being undertaken by the department to diagnose breast, cervix and mouth cancer. Special programmes for screening of diabetes, hypertension and other non-communicable diseases are also being conducted. We are also working to establish a State Organ Tissue Transplantation Organization, for which space has already been earmarked in Medical Education Bhawan, Mohali. The government is launching measles-rubella vaccination campaign under which around 75 lakh children between 9 months and 5 years would be vaccinated.
 
 
 
 When I took over as the health minister, first major challenge I had to face was to protect the future of hundreds of students enrolled in two private medical colleges and hospitals — the Gian Sagar Medical College and the Chintpurni Medical College. While the Gian Sagar College landed in financial crisis and was unable to pay salaries of its staff who went on a strike, the government had to withdraw all permission granted to the institute. The   could never get approval from the Medical Council of India as it failed to meet the minimum standards.
 
 As the health minister, I ensured there was no compromise with the future of the students studying at these colleges and sought special permission from the MCI to shift these students to other medical colleges which was promptly granted and all students were shifted. As far as reviving these institutions, both these colleges were privately run and the government could not interfere in their working.
 
 However, the government is already coming up with a new medical college at SAS Nagar, with an outlay of Rs 10 crore and Rs 100 crore has been provided for upgradation of infrastructure in the   for providing better facilities to people.
 
 
 
 When the Congress took over in the state, its economic health was very poor. During the first year, the government had to struggle due to an acute paucity of funds. As health is one of the prime areas of focus directly affecting all people of the state, Capt Amarinder Singh had asked me to ensure that there was no dearth of political will in implementing new plans and policies to improve the healthcare services. I feel we have done well during the first year and I am hoping to further improve the health facilities in the next couple of years.
 
 You also head six cabinet subcommittees, one of which was tasked with mobilising resources.
 
 
 
 Resource mobilisation is one of the major challenges that the government is facing at the moment. You are aware that we have a legacy of over Rs 2.5 lakh crore debt left to the state by the previous SAD-BJP government. The financial health of the state is not permitting the government to go ahead with fulfilling the poll promises that entail a huge expenditure. But we are also looking for ways to enhance resources and I can assure you that things on the financial front would start looking up very soon.
 
 Chief minister Amarinder Singh is determined to fulfil all promises made in the election manifesto. As far as improving the financial standing of the farmers is concerned, CM Sahab has already constituted a cabinet subcommittee on price stabilisation of farm products. The committee is working on a model that can be introduced to protect farmers against frequent price fluctuations in open markets. The state is an agrarian economy and it stands to benefit from this initiative.
 
 
 
 Having a regulatory body for universities aims at ensuring quality education and protecting the interests of students, besides attracting more institutes of higher learning to set up base in Punjab. We have already held a couple of meetings and a final draft is almost ready which would also be put before the cabinet for approval. As far as regularisation of the illegal colonies is concerned, we are heading towards the formulation of a people-friendly policy that would protect the interests of the plot holders and also focus on revenue generation by promoting real estate business in the state. The aim is to come up with a policy that cannot be challenged in any court of law.
 
