NEW DELHI: Conserving heritage is a costly job. Governments have had to look at resources outside the official coffers to maintain centuries-old structures. Business houses and charitable foundations have often proved able partners in this work, thought concerns about commercialisation always exist.

 Italy leads the way in partnering with corporate bodies in preserving historic legacies. The cash-strapped Italian government actively sought private sponsorship and corporate largesse to fund restoration projects and preservation of the country’s amazingly rich cultural heritage. So while Italian luxury group Tod’s financed the restoration of the Colosseum, the Trevi Fountain was restored with $4 million from fashion brand Fendi. Another luxury giant, Bulgari, contributed $2 million to spruce up the Spanish Steps.
 
  back on private money used to be   in Italy, but an economic crisis forced the government’s hand. While there were concerns that the practice would lead to large-scale commercialisation of heritage, the government made it clear that it simply couldn’t manage on its own.
 
 The United Kingdom relies heavily on charitable trusts, foundations and public donations to keep alive its heritage. But corporate sponsors have aided in the preservation of history. For years, English Heritage, the body that manages England’s 400-plus monuments, has actively sought partners in licensing opportunities and sponsorships, with commercial gains for such partners. "In 2015, English Heritage announced a major, three-year partnership with cleaning brand Cif to embark on a programme of conservation at some of the country’s most spectacular landmarks, commencing with the restoration of the Quadriga, the magnificent bronze sculpture on top of Wellington Arch, London. Cif and English Heritage activated the partnership with advertising, on-pack offers and competition prizes as well as with digital and social activity," inform the body’s website.
 
 English Heritage also announced a new strategic, three-year partnership with Isla Negra, dubbing it the official wine of English Heritage. "In addition to their sponsorship, Isla Negra also supported with in-kind wine, offering different opportunities for brand visibility and presence at English Heritage sites, in catering outlets and holiday cottages," says the website.
 
 In Mongolia, Xanadu Mines, an Australian exploration company operating in that country, joined hands with the Arts Council of Mongolia to conserve the Choijin Lama Temple complex in 2012. This public-private partnership was the result of
 
 the government’s lack of resources to protect the country’s cultural heritage and was widely acclaimed as an example of
 
 private sponsorship could ably save cultural heritage.
 
 However, private sponsors aren’t all welcomed warmly worldwide. Last year, a proposal mooted by the Trump administration in the United States to privatise public park services was heavily criticised,
 
 with most public lands advocates concerned that privatisation would increase costs for visitors.
 
 
