PUNE: Taking a lift from strangers on Sunday morning cost a 45-year-old woman her   ornaments and cash together worth Rs1.51 lakh at Ale Phata, about 90km from here.

 After robbing the woman, Leela Kurkote, three robbers blindfolded her in the car and dumped her at a secluded spot in  , about 8km from Ale Phata. She went to the Ale Phata police station with the help of residents of the area and lodged a complaint against the suspects.
 
 The Pune rural police have identified the car with the help of   footage. The police are trying to ascertain its registration number.
 
 Assistant inspector M B Khedkar of the Ale Phata police said Kurkote was a resident of   village in   in Ahmednagar district. “On Sunday morning, she had come to Ale Phata to meet her daughter, admitted to a hospital,” he said.
 
 Khedkar said Kurkote left the hospital around 10am and went to Ale Phata to take a vehicle home. “After some time, the three persons (robbers) travelling in a silver hatchback car stopped near her. One of them asked Kurkote her destination. When she told him that she wanted to go to Kurkutwadi, the man offered her lift till Bota village, around 10km from Ale Phata,” he said.
 
 The assistant inspector said Kurkote immediately agreed and sat in the car. “After driving for some distance, the three suspects in the car threatened to kill Kurkote and forced her to hand them over all her valuables. Terrified Kurkote removed her two gold chains, two pairs of earrings, Rs250 and her cellphone, collectively worth Rs1.51 lakh, and gave them to the suspects,” Khedkar said.
 
 He said the suspects then covered Kurkote’s eyes with a piece of cloth, dumped her at the secluded place and fled. “When Kurkote removed the cloth on her eyes, she found herself at an isolated spot. When she raised an alarm, a few gathered there and she came to know that she was in Santwadi near Bota,” Khedkar said.
 
 He said Kurkote then came to the police station and lodged the complaint. Before sitting in the car, Kurkote did not note the registration number of the car.
 
 
