Dance training in a capsule, aimed solely at winning prizes at youth festivals, is nothing new to young art trainees of Kerala. 

 For many years, Thrissur girl   also indulged in the practice, in which there is hardly a bond between the performer and the art form. However, when she realised that her love for dance was much beyond prizes or grace marks, she decided to break out of it and give dance her all. The Bharatanatyam dancer is now a popular face in the dance circuits of South India and is often rated a talent to watch out for, winning glowing reviews for her performances. The 24-year-old shares the story of her dance journey with us.
 
 “I started my dance training when I was four-and-a-half years old and had my arangettam when I was around 12. However, the defining moment occurred when I was in Class 12,” recalls Meera. “The meaninglessness of the competitive spirit among our art enthusiasts hit me and I started wondering what this kind of training means, without a deeper understanding. I felt an urge to learn more, and better. So, after Class 12, I decided that understanding dance and becoming a performer is my vocation, and I am going to work hard for it.” Her parents and brother, despite not having any background in the field, stood by her like a rock.
 
 Meera contacted Chennai-based Bharatanatyam dancer Kalakshetra Nirmala Nagarajan as suggested by one of her friends, and expressed her wish to train under her. “I had joined for BSc Physics at Sreekrishna College Guruvayoor by then, so Nirmala ma’am asked me how I can attend her classes. I said I will come during the weekends.” And Meera did! For the next three years, she would hop on to a train to Chennai every Friday, train under the guru for two days and travel back on Sunday evening. “I guess ma’am didn’t believe I would continue this arrangement. It wasn’t easy for me either. There have been times when I wondered why I was taking so much trouble. My graduation studies were all done in train,” Meera recalls. But the love for dance kept her going.
 Interestingly, she scored 97 per cent in her B Sc examinations and she even bagged the Best Student Award from the Calicut University. Meera went on to do an MSc in physics as well, this time from Women’s Christian College (WCC) Chennai, bringing to an end the interstate travel for dance. Why did she continue with physics, if her aim was to be a performer? “I loved the subject. Moreover, I have been working as an online physics tutor too for quite a while, which means I haven't left it half way through. It’s not easy to depend solely on your art form for money. That’s my primary reason to stay active as a tutor as well,” she says.
 
 Meera has been professionally active too alongside her Chennai training days and took a diploma in natya sastra. She is now doing her MA in Bharatanatyam. But unlike many, she does not wish to enrol for PhD. “The times are such that anyone can take a doctorate. So, though I wish to do indepth research, I don’t want to join the doctorate bandwagon.” Ask her why she chose to focus on Bharatanatyam despite being trained in many dance forms and Meera says, “I feel that’s what suits my body the best. I also enjoy dancing most when I perform Bharatanatyam.” Meera, who has many awards to her credit like the Nritya Vilasini award by Nrithyathi Kalakshetram, Bhilai, Yuvakalapuraskar and Nrityasri Puraskar of 2017, has also performed abroad, in countries like Kuwait, UAE and Japan. She is also a graded artiste in Doordarshan and currently trains under Indira Kadambi.
 
 While she is not keen about a doctorate, Meera has something novel in her mind. “I want to institute something that will bring the students of science and art streams together; basically, bring bookworms closer to art as well. It’s still a vision in the beginning stages, there is a lot more work to be done,” she explains. Meera is married to media entertainment professional Sandeep Menon.
 
 The dancer has also tried her hand at acting in films. She was the second heroine of Vinod Mankara’s award winning Sanskrit film Priyamanasam. Does she want to pursue acting too? “No, dance will always be my first love,” she signs off.
 
 
 
 
