JAIPUR: All the B.Ed government colleges under   College Education are running without proper faculty and infrastructure with strength of 200 students that is directly against the rules and regulations laid down in   2014.

 According to the number prescribed by the National Council for Teachers Education 2014, for an intake of two basic units of 50 students each, that is total 200 students, there should be at least 16 teachers in the college. On May 15, 2018 the exam will be conducted for the new batch without full filling the norms mentioned above. Last year, a no objection certificate was issued by the Commissioner of College Education, government of Rajasthan, in which it was mentioned that colleges affiliated by different universities should have required number of faculties.
 
  
 Jyotsana Bhardwaj, joint director of academics said “We have initiated the process for new faculty hiring but it will take some time. Nothing is final as of yet but we have to we have send our request to the ministers and after their approval the committee will be set for the appointments.” However, the question is what took the government so long to take such step?
 
 In the government college of Chimanpura in Jaipur district only one faculty member is running the institute of 200 students. Similar situation is of the colleges in Kaladera (seven), Ajmer (two), Bhopalgarh (six), Kherwada (six) teachers are running the institute and because of faculty crunch regular classes are not held and students are forced to bear the condition. On April 2, 2018 again a   was given to the colleges with the similar conditions mentioned with an addition that every college should have their own separate websites with all the required information but still no steps were taken into consideration.
 
 When asked about the website, principles of Bhopalgarh and Kherwada said that they have a web page on the website of department of College Education but do not have separate college website as all the information is mentioned there. However, as per the NOC every college should have their separate website. Even on the webpage the designation of the teaching staff is not mentioned as some of them are mere instructors and even no mention of non – teaching staff.
 
 
