BENGALURU: Textbooks described as "not learner-centric" and a "burden" will continue to be used by children in the state in the next academic year as a review committee named last week indicated its job had just begun. 

  "We need to subject the textbooks to close scrutiny, while consulting experts from across domains. We can't do this in a hurry and there is no other go for the children but to read these defective books even for the next academic year," said Arun Shahapura, chairman of the six-member committee. 
 
  Reviewing the state board textbooks from Class I to X, the National Council of Education Research and Training ( ) had said last year that they were of poor academic quality and encouraged rote learning in place of providing conceptual knowledge. 
 
  Following the scathing critique by NCERT, education minister   had on February 7 issued orders to constitute the committee comprising five members of the   and the joint secretary to the education department as member-secretary. However, the committee was not given a timeframe. Members of the committee said they would conduct a meticulous study of the textbooks before sending a report to the government. 
 
 '"We need take steps to improve the quality of textbooks based on the observations made by NCERT. At the outset, there are typing errors and we will be careful in future to avoid such mistakes," said Sait.
 
 State authorities too admitted as much. "We had scrutinised the textbooks before sending them to print last year. Yet, errors have crept in. Now that the government has constituted the (review) committee, let it do its job," said Narasimhaiah, managing director of Karnataka Textbook Society.
 
 Teachers, parents and other stakeholders, however, are dismayed at the state government's approach to the issue. NCERT had pointed out flaws in the draft copies of the textbooks as early as March 2017. Yet, the government decided to use the same textbooks for the 2017-18 academic year starting from June 1. As complaints about the substandard quality of the textbooks continued to pour in from teachers, parents and representatives of political parties, NCERT sent another stinker in December last year. 
 
 "Not just NCERT, even the teaching community that took a look at the draft copies of the textbooks had pointed out errors. (But) The government was defiant about prescribing the same textbooks," said Shivananda Sindanakera, president of Karnataka State Secondary Teachers Association. 
 
 The textbooks were drawn up by a committee headed by Kannada writer Baraguru Ramachandrappa which was appointed in 2015 to update the curriculum and prepare course books for classes I to X. The committee's draft textbooks were sent to NCERT. "We knew there were minor grammatical errors in the textbooks and I think the NCERT report has highlighted the same," said Ramachandrappa.
 
 
 
 
 After a scrutiny of the textbooks, NCERT has pointed out that they are "not learner-centric", "burden" children with "rote memorisation" and do not provide any conceptual knowledge. It said the books did not include activities that demand critical thinking. It also said the books lacked tasks that would sensitise students to issues related to gender bias and environmental concerns. Observing that the textbooks were full of grammatical errors, NCERT stressed that the books should comply with standards of National Curriculum Framework ( ).
 
 
 
 
 While the Barguru Ramachandrappa committee prepared textbooks for Classes I to X of the state board, the state government prescribed these books only up to Class VIII for the 2017-18 academic year. Students of Class IX were to use NCERT textbooks while Class X students were to stick to the textbooks in use prior to the committee being set up. For the 2018-19 academic year, education minister Tanveer Sait said, NCERT textbooks would be introduced for Class X.
 
  
  
 
