KOLKATA: The murder of small-time property dealer   at Bright Street on Monday in front of his family shows how yesteryear criminals — all of them convicted in serious offences and associated with dreaded gangsters — are now dabbling in property and are ready to resort to shootings to ensure their fiefdom remains unchallenged. 

 Sources in southeast division police and detective department say there is logic behind the criminals trying to cash in on the real estate boom in the past few years in the Karaya- Entally-Beniapukur-Tiljala belt. “Most big gangsters like Gudda,   and Ullu Raja are either dead or behind bars. Their gang members are now desperate to be in the good books of politicians. Since they were into extortions and property dealings for years, turning into promoters or construction material suppliers was the next logical step,” said an officer. 
 
 Some of the most dreaded extortionists and gangsters in the city from the 90s, including Gabbar, Sona, Gudda and Nadeem, cut their teeth in crime in Wellesley Second Lane. It was Nadim and Sona — two of the most dreaded gangsters — who had first moved on to property deals. The results, however, have been far from satisfactory. “When rival gangs clashed earlier, you knew who to go after and we had the necessary gang penetrations to restrain them. But gang rivalry has now intensified because of competition in business and very little knowledge about the operational logistics of these smaller players,” said an officer.   alias Bhola, who has been arrested for murdering Rehman, has a criminal record dating back three decades. 
 
  
  
 A confidant of a senior Left Front leader, he was initially charged with attempt to murder and served a jail term in the early 2000s. It later turned into a murder case. He is believed to have committed another murder and was involved in thefts. He came out of jail in 2014 and joined promoting. 
 
 Police said he sold off his property in Tiljala and started staying with his in-laws on Bright Street. After he became close to a local Trinamool leader, who now occupies an important post in  , he forged a business tie with his neighbour and promoter Rehman. “He mostly threatened his way into this business,” said a source. Police insist there are six fringe groups in operation in this trouble belt. “The fact that you can manage single-shotters for Rs 4,000-6,000 from Port and Maheshtala makes even the smallest criminals deadly. 
 
 They were always trying to make their presence felt — and now they are armed,” said a source, adding that there have been 17 arrests for possessing illegal weapons in six months.
