Ludhiana: After wait of more than one-and-a-half years, there is good news for city residents as the reconstruction of one portion of the   is going to start next week. The company hired by the Railways for the project has reached the city and it is expected that they will start dismantling the old bridge by this Monday. Also MC officials are working on removal of encroachments alongside the bridge because its width will also be increased. The officials are trying to find out whether these people can be rehabilitated at some other place. 

 On Wednesday, a team comprising some railway engineers and representatives of the private company visited the bridge. The construction work has to be started by March 19 by dismantling an old portion of the bridge. The railway engineers will prepare the schedule of work on the bridge because the main Delhi to Amritsar railway line is passing below this bridge and the officials will ensure that there should be no disturbance to the movement of rail traffic due to the construction work. 
 
 Meanwhile, the MC officials have completed the field survey of encroachments alongside the bridge. Around 75 encroachers have been identified. Though it is yet to be decided which department has the ownership of this land under encroachment, the MC officials claimed that they would remove the encroachments at any cost. 
 
 One of the MC officials said that before taking action the officials are checking the report of a recent survey conducted regarding the number of slums in the city. In case these encroachments have been included in the list of slums, then there are chances that these people can be rehabilitated in the flats constructed by the MC for slum dwellers, otherwise these will be demolished, he added. The MC commissioner, Jaskiran Singh, said that the encroachments would be removed but they are trying for the rehabilitation of the people residing there. He said that they would take action in a few days. 
 
 In July 2016, one side of this bridge was closed by the Railways while declaring it unsafe for movement of traffic. After a long wait of almost one year the state government released funds for the project to the MC, which were further transferred to the Railways. Though the MC had paid Rs 24.30 crore to the latter in July last year, the work will kick off now. 
 
 
