MUMBAI: Residents of old buildings looking forward to   on the back of the   2014-34 may be somewhat disappointed. 

 The state government has not only linked the use of premium   (floor space index) and TDR (transfer of development rights) to the road  , it has also reduced the total FSI that will now be available. In the suburbs, the FSI has been reduced by a minimum of 0.2 for nearly all   widths while in the city it has been reduced by 0.2 for 9-metre roads.
 
  2014-34 was notified on Thursday and will form the blueprint of growth for the city.
 
 Vilas Nagalkar, architect and member, Practising Engineers, Architects and Town Planners Association (PEATA), said the categories of road widths had changed in the new regulation. As a result, several housing societies, especially in the suburbs, will find it difficult to go in for redevelopment.
 
 Now, buildings that abut roads under 9 metres in width (29.6 feet) get only 1.33 FSI in the island city and 1 in the suburbs. Earlier it was 1.5 in the suburbs.
 
 Even crueller is the fate of those who reside along 9-metre roads (27.6 feet). The new Development Control and Promotional Regulations (DCPR) stipulate that buildings on 9-metre roads will now be entitled to only 1.33 FSI in the island city as against 1.5 FSI in the 1991 DP. Those living in the suburbs will get 1 FSI as against 2 FSI earlier.
 
 The DCPR further said that roads more than 9 metres in width but less that 12.2 (40 feet) will get 2 FSI in the island city as against the earlier 1.5. In case of the suburbs there is no change.
 
 “There are a number of 9.15 metre (30 feet) roads in the city as these were built by the British, who followed the imperial system of measurement, while later we shifted to the metric system, and hence the 9-metre roads,” he said.
 
 Architect Yomesh Rao said FSI will be calculated on net plot area after deducting reservations and road but it will include the 15% for recreation ground, which earlier was not be considered in calculating FSI.
 
 Not everyone is upset. “It is good that there is some rationalisation of FSI. We cannot have a uniform vertical form across the length and breadth of the city. Also, by not allowing TDR and premium FSI on roads less than 9 metres, the BMC will find it easier to persuade people to part with land for road-widening, for residents will now be able to understand the benefit of wider roads,” said a source.
 
 
