PUNE: Poor street lighting and the absence of   breakers is a serious threat to road users along a 2km stretch from Nanded bridge to   on  . 

 The stretch forms a vital part of the traffic moving between Pune and Sinhagad fort, a popular tourist spot, and other tourist destinations nearby.
 
  
  
 
 The National Water Academy (NWA) and Central Water and Power Research Station (CWPRS) also fall along this stretch which has witnessed several accidents, some fatal, in the last few years.
 
 The academy has, in fact, lost three of its employees to such accidents. Both, the NWA and the Kirkitwadi Development Forum (KDF) members have raised concerns about the road in a letter to state revenue and public work department minister Chandrakant Patil recently.
 
 Director in-charge of  , who has been pursuing the issue with the district authorities, told TOI," The stretch has become dangerous for commuters. Three of our employees died in accidents here. We have written to the state government for necessary steps."
 
 According to the Pune rural police, 30 road accidents were reported on this stretch in the past two years. Inspector   of Haveli police station said, "We have taken up this issue with the gram panchayat and will follow it up with the district authorities."
 
 Thousands of working professionals staying at Kirkitwadi, Kolhewadi, Nandoshi and Khadakwasla villages use the road. Ashwin Joshi, an IT professional and a resident of Kirkitwadi, said, “ There is lack of basic road safety infrastructures and people usually drive rashly. At night, vehicles user cut lanes making the stretch accident-prone.”
 
 Datta Rupanwar, a resident of Sinhagad Road, said, “Once vehicles pass Nanded bridge, drivers speed on the wide road. At times, we have witnessed motorists colliding head-on.”
 
 Kshitij Kulkarni said six-seaters on the road ply without headlights. "Police should initiate stern against such vehicles,” he said.
 
 KDF member Prakash Pawar said, “The population has been increased rapidly in five years. Thousands of people visit Khadakwasla dam, Sinhagad fort and other  . Adequate traffic infrastructure on the stretch to make it safe is necessary. We have recently written to the minister.”
 
 A senior PWD official said that the government has planned to widen the road till Torna fort in Bhor. The tender process has been initiated and would be completed in the next few weeks. All traffic infrastructure will be incorporated under the new project, he added.
 
 
