BABALESHWAR (VIJAYAPURA DISTRICT): Water resources minister M B Patil is battling the odds in Babaleshwar assembly constituency in Vijayapura district.

 
  
 
 Neither the string of development works he has undertaken in his constituency, nor his leadership of the movement to get religious minority status for   is making things easy for the   heavyweight, given that everything in the electoral battle is getting reduced to caste.
 
 M B Patil used the opportunity provided by his ministry to take up work under the Upper Krishna Project, the third irrigation project, on a war footing.
 
 He accomplished his mission of filling up all tanks and lakes – nearly 200 of them -- in the constituency within four years. Construction of drains, cement roads and school buildings was taken up.
 
 Welfare schemes like the distribution of free textbooks, study material, sports equipment and other freebies were taken up successfully through the M B Patil Foundation. At a loss to counter M B Patil on development issues,   is raking up the caste factor.
 
 He belongs to the Kuduvokkaliga sect of the Lingayats. Non-Panchamasali Lingayats like Ganigas, Veerashaivas and Banajigas are traditionally opposed to Panchamasalis, with whom Kuduvokkaligas are associated. The BJP is banking on the support of these groups to oust M B Patil.
 
 Desperate to unseat M B Patil, the BJP has had to depend on a defector in   to take on M B Patil. Vijugouda has already lost twice to M B Patil as Janata Dal(S) candidate.
 
 M B Patil is not broaching the   issue during his campaign, but his opponents are discreetly raking it up and reminding people not to support a candidate who is out to “divide the community”.
 
 Veerashaiva pontiffs who had opposed the movement for separate status for Lingayats have been brazen in their efforts to get Lingayats to vote against M B Patil.
 
 “I am not mixing the Lingayat issue with elections. There is no need for me to seek votes on caste lines. I am highlighting the development work I took up, and people are aware of them. But my opponents are trying to rake up the caste issue. Voters are intelligent and this time, I will win by a bigger margin,” asserts M B Patil.
 
 Son of Congress heavyweight B M Patil, M B Patil won in 1989 and 2004 from Tikota and in 2008 and 2013 from Babaleshwar.
 
 He was also MP from Vijayapura for 13 months. Having spent Rs 58,000 crore on irrigation projects in the region, he says his works will stand him in good stead.
 
 
