NAGPUR: Preserving   is the duty of every citizen as plants and trees have significant features which hold medicinal value, said justice Bharati   of the Bombay high court on Tuesday.

 Speaking at a programme organized by Maharashtra State Biodiversity Board ( ) and Maharashtra forest department to mark International Day for Biological Diversity at Vasantrao Deshpande Hall, Civil Lines, Dangre said it is important that knowledge about the medicinal use of plants is passed on to the future generations and awareness is created about conservation of flora and fauna.
 
 Dangre criticized industrialization at the cost of natural resources. There is a need to strike a balance between development and conservation, she added.
 
 Divisional commissioner Anoop Kumar, principal chief conservator of forest (PCCF) Umesh Agrawal, PCCF A Ashraf, member secretary of MSBB, members of the board Jayant Wadatkar and Aarti Shanvare, were seated on the dais. Members of various NGOs working for the cause of nature also attended the event. 
 
 A national level wildlife photography competition was conducted by green activist Kundan Hate. Photographer Faizan Khan bagged the first prize and was felicitated during the function.   and Sajid AbuBakr got the second and third prize respectively. 
 
 Efforts of individuals and organizations working for protecting environment were acknowledged and they were felicitated for their contribution. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, Wadatkar said, “It is our responsibility to make people vigilant about the deteriorating condition of our forests. With rising urbanization, the natural habitats are adversely affected and there is severe degradation of biodiversity. Many species have already become extinct while others are endangered. If we don’t understand the gravity of the matter, then the situation would worsen at an exponential rate.” 
 
 Wadatkar also spoke on Biodiversity Act, 2002, and said its provisions should reach the hinterlands too so that the people could get benefit. This is the purpose of the Act. 
 
 Around 15 students of Tilak Vidyalaya English Medium School, dressed in vibrant green attires, set an emotional tone as they danced on ‘Na kaato mujhe dukhta hai’ to highlight the seriousness of the problem of cutting trees and implications of deforestation. There were also students from New Apostolic English High School who performed on “Aao Dharti Bachao.” The little ones also put light on the grave issue of plastic pollution thereby insisting on curbing its usage. 
 
 (With inputs from Heena Manghani) 
 
 
