NEW DELHI:   continued their good start to the   2018 campaign as they registered a thrilling one-wicket victory over defending champions   at the Rajiv Gandhi International Stadium in Hyderabad on Thursday. Two wins in as many matches took Sunrisers to the top of the standings as they have better run rate than Chennai Super Kings, who too have four points.

 
 
 
 It was a nail-biting end to the match as Billy Stanlake scored the winning run off the last ball, much to the delight of the home fans. Needing 11 off the final over, bowled by Ben Cutting, Deepak Hooda (32 not out off 25 balls) started with a big six over the long-off which was followed by a wide ball. Sunrisers seemed to be in control as they needed four off the final five balls, but they could manage just four off the next four deliveries. 
 
 Super Over was very much on the card as Stanlake was on the strike to face the last ball with scores levelled. But the Aussie pacer held his nerves and lofted the slower ball over mid-wicket to seal the game for the hosts.
 
 Sunrisers were sailing smoothly as they needed 15 off final three overs with as many as five wickets remaining. Then Mustafizur Rahman and Jasprit Bumrah produced two scintillating overs to turn the match upside down. The pace duo picked two wickets each and gave away just four runs in the 18th and 19th overs. But somehow Sunrisers managed to register the victory.
 
 Chasing a modest 148-run target, openers Shikhar Dhawan and   gave Sunrisers a perfect start. They hit boundaries at will and took Sunrisers to 50-run mark in just 5.5 overs. The chase was right on the track for the hosts when young spinner   broke the 62-run partnership in the seventh over, that too through a successful review against the original decision.
 
 The situation changed dramatically as Sunrisers lost next three wickets in 3.2 overs. First, another successful review gave Mustafizur the wicket of   (6) in the eighth over, which was followed by the wicket of in-form Dhawan (45) to Markande in the next over. Dhawan hit eight fours in his 28-ball quick-fire innings.
 
 Markande then made Manish Pandey (11) his third victim as Sunrisers were reduced to 89/4 in 10.2 overs from 62/0 in 6.4 overs. Markande removed Shakib Al Hasan (12) in the 13th over to finish with figures of 4/23. 
 
 Bumrah then kept Mumbai in the hunt when he dismissed Rashid Khan (0) and Yusuf Pathan (14) in two balls in the 18th. And Mustafizur dismissed Sandeep Sharma and Siddarth Kaul in the penultimate over, before the dramatic final over.
 
 Earlier, Sunrisers' bowlers once again put up a stellar show as they restricted a star-studded Mumbai to 147/8.
 
 The much-vaunted Mumbai batting line-up flattered to deceive as the likes of Evin Lewis (29), Suryakumar Yadav (28) and Kieron Pollard (28) got out after getting set which put brakes on their scoring rate. The lower middle-order caved in badly as Sunrisers looked as potent an attack even without their premier India bowler Bhuvneshwar Kumar. Such was the dominance of the Hyderabad bowlers that the last 10 overs of the Mumbai innings fetched them only 69 runs with only 36 coming off last five overs.
 
 Sandeep (2/25 in 4 overs) proved a brilliant replacement for Bhuvi with his incisive swing bowling while Kaul (2/29 in 4 overs) was once again impressive. A lot of credit will go to Rashid Khan, who stifled the scoring during the middle overs with brilliant figures of 1 for 13 in 4 overs. Rashid bowled flat and fast with a mix of googlies and flippers. He bowled as many as 18 dot balls.
 
 Skipper   (11) was out trying to whip a delivery from Stanlake (2/42) that grew big on him and the catch was taken at square leg by Shakib Al Hasan. Ishan Kishan's maverick approach didn't pay dividends as he failed to make most of a dropped catch by Sandeep as Siddharth had him caught at third man.
 
 The normally dangerous Lewis started off well but tried to hit Kaul across the line only to find the off-stump knocked back. And Krunal Pandya closed his face to a Shakib (1/34 in 4 overs) delivery to offer a simple catch. Stanlake then hurried Pollard into ballooning one to Dhawan at sweeper cover. Sandeep then dismissed Suryakumar and Pradeep Sangwan off successive balls to ensure that Mumbai don't cross the 150-run mark. 
 
 
 
 
