PATNA: Short supply of   of different values for the last several months has led to their sales on black market right under the nose of the district administration near   collectorate.

 Touts were seen selling non-judicial stamps of Rs10, 20, 50 and 100 issued from treasury of neighbouring districts on double the original price. On Tuesday, when this reporter posing as a customer asked vendors near Patna collectorate for Rs100 non-judicial stamp, they said there had been no supply of the stamps for the last three months at least. “We are selling non-judicial stamps of Rs500, Rs1,000 and Rs5,000 only,” one of the vendors said.
 
 However, a tout charged this reporter Rs200 extra and provided a non-judicial stamp of Rs100 issued from Jehanabad district treasury on May 15. The tout, when asked, said the stamp would serve all the required purposes.
 
 Some Patna civil court advocates said touts were selling them Rs100 stamp for Rs110 to Rs150. Sources said prohibition, excise and registration department procures the stamps from Nashik Printing Press for supply across the state.
 
 A senior district administration officer said such a non-judicial stamp is invalid. “A non-judicial stamp issued by another treasury is of no use in Patna,” he said.
 
 Another officer said there had been short supply of Rs50 and Rs100 non-judicial stamp since the last week of February. “Rs10 and Rs20 non-judicial stamps are in short supply since July last year,” sources said, adding the collectorate treasury would run out of Rs1,000 non-judicial stamps within a day.
 
 He said requisition for Rs10, Rs20, Rs50, Rs100 and Rs1,000 non-judicial stamps was sent to the department in March and April, but the supply was yet to come. “Six lakh sheets of stamps were demanded on both occasions,” sources said, adding short supply is resulting in loss of revenue to the government.
 
 “Non-judicial stamps of Rs5, which generally remain unsold, is being pumped into the market amid crisis,” source said, adding Patna alone consumes at least 20% of stamps supplied to the state. They also said non-judicial stamps worth Rs1.25 crore are sold in Patna every week.
 
 When contacted, IG (registration) Aditya Kumar Das told TOI over the phone that he had spoken to Nashik press authorities and they assured stamp supply very soon. “Problems will be sorted out within a week,” he added.
 
 
