KOLKATA: Overcoming two years of legal hassle, 28-year-old Atri Kar will become the first transgender person from Bengal to take the civil services examination conducted by the   (UPSC).

 Though a   in 2014 made it possible for transgender people to apply for education and employment under the ‘other’ category, the policy had not been implemented everywhere. After fighting at the   (CAT) for two years, Kar got an interim order from the CAT’s Calcutta bench on February 27, allowing her to take the exam as an ‘other category’ candidate.
 
 
 
  
 
 Kar, who is an English teacher at Ramnagar Primary School, had to fight a similar legal battle to be eligible for the West Bengal Civil Service Examination. “That had also continued for two years. When I took the examination this January, I was the first transgender from Bengal applying in the ‘other category’,” she said.
 
 In 2017, when Kar first tried to fill up the UPSC forms, she was against applying under either the male or female category. “The order from the National Legal Services Authority in 2014 had clearly stated that transgender should be treated as the third gender and proper reservations should be extended to them. What is frustrating is that at every step, we still need to move court to be even enrol ourselves in the ‘other’ category,” Kar said.
 
 A private coaching centre had agreed to sponsor Kar’s education so she could clear the civil services exams. But the problem was that Kar couldn’t apply in the ‘other’ category. That’s when Kar moved court. “But in 2017, my case was dismissed because someone allegedly sent a message, trying to convince the judge. However, though I was not involved, I had to accept the court’s judgment,” she said.
 
 This year again, the advertisement dated February 7 only had the male/female options. Not one to give up easily, Kar moved court again.
 
 The interim order has allowed Kar to fill up the 2018 application form offline.
 
 UPSC can also appeal against the interim order. “I have seen this part of the interim order and am still hopeful that I will finally be able to write the exam on June 3 in the ‘other’ category,” Kar said.
 
