KOCHI: The   has held that assessment authorities can consider applications for environmental clearance for   on land excluded from the draft notification for   (ESAs). Ruling on three petitions, Justice   said an area not included in the draft notification will not be included in the list of ESAs upon finalisation of the process. 

 Applications for environmental clearance for quarrying can be entertained by environment impact assessment authorities for lands excluded from the draft notification for ecologically sensitive areas (ESAs), the high court has held.
 
 The ruling by Justice A K Jayasankaran Nambiar came after considering three petitions filed by persons engaged in stone quarrying and crushing operations. A petition filed by Raji Mathew of Idukki was the lead case. They approached the high court after the environment impact assessment authorities declined to process their applications for environmental clearance citing ambiguity on whether their lands are included in the list of ESAs or not.
 
  informed the court that ecologically-sensitive villages were first identified and a survey was done to identify the particular areas within those villages that could be categorized as ESAs for the purpose of the draft notification issued by Union ministry of environment and forests.
 
 The petitioners had argued before the court that the areas where they are carrying out quarrying or crushing operations are not those identified by the state government as falling under the category of ESAs.
 
 As per a report submitted by the biodiversity board to the court, Peermade, Konny, and Koottikkal were stated to be ecologicallysensitive villages but the list of ESA lands in these villages showed that only lands falling under particular block numbers, survey numbers, and sub divisions were included in the list of ESA lands.
 
 Citing section 3 of Environment (Protection) Act and its rules, the court said an area that is not included in the draft notification will not be included in the list of ESAs upon finalization of the process specified in the Act.
 
 The judgment said, “In my view, since the area where the petitioners are carrying out the quarrying operations is not presently included in an area that has been identified as ecologically sensitive area (ESA) for the purposes of the draft notification, the mere fact that there is a delay in the finalization of the said draft notification ought not stand in the way of consideration of the applications submitted by the petitioners for environmental clearance, pending the issuance of final notification by the central government.”
 
 Further, the court ordered that environment impact assessment authorities should process the applications for environmental clearance by considering the lands of the petitioners as not those falling under ESA.
 
 It was on February 27, 2017 that the ministry issued a draft notification for notifying 56,825 sq km in six states, including Kerala, as Western Ghats ESA. In Kerala, the eco-sensitive area is spread over 9,993.7 sq km, which includes 917 sq km of forest area and 886.7 sq km of non-forest area.
 
 
 
 
