KOLKATA: A pre-summer warm spell, triggered by a high pressure zone above  , has gripped the city. It led to moisture incursion causing heavy fog on Thursday, even as Kolkata recorded a minimum temperature of 20.3 degrees Celsius - four notches above the normal mark. This led to sudden spike in particulate pollution during the rush hour, when majority of the city's working population and students are out on the road. 

 The AQI generally spikes between midnight and daybreak, with the sun and the consequent heat bringing down pollution levels as the day wears on. This has not happened this season, say experts, pointing to Thursday's PM2.5 count recorded at U S Consulate at 9am - 212g/m³. This is more than three times the safe limit of 60 g/m³. Since then the PM2.5 count steadily rose to 259 at 10am, 264 at 11am and 216 at 12 noon. Thereafter, the count dipped. Though this one station study does not reflect the pollution level of the entire city, it certainly shows an hourly trend of the pollution level. 
 
 The high pressure system will keep the mercury above the normal mark over the next 48 hours, according to the regional meteorological centre (RMC). "Moisture from the high pressure zone led to the early morning fog and cloud on Thursday. It will remain warm and partially cloudy for the next 48 hours. Once the high pressure recedes the fog will go. But the temperature will not dip much," said G K Das, director,  .
 
 The mercury will not drop below 15 degrees since peak winter is over, Das added. "We are approaching summer and the cool period is over. Even when the high pressure zone dissipates, the mercury will remain around the 18-20 degrees mark. It won't climb steeply in the first half of February, but there will be a steady rise now. The maximum temperature, too, will rise. It has already crossed the 30 degrees Celsius mark," said Das. 
 
 Though the Met office didn't officially announce the exit of winter, weatherman said it's well and truly over in Kolkata and South Bengal. 
 
 
