BENGALURU: The ambitions of former Prime Minister H D   and  , his son and former chief minister, have grown from being king-maker to eyeing the throne itself.

 The Gowda family wants to recreate the 1994 scenario where the   (as it was known then) bagged 115 seats of the total 224 assembly constituencies and formed the government on its own. The   won 40 and the Congress 34. This was the first time the BJP opened accounts in the Lingayat belt of north Karnataka.
 
 However, the political conditions that exist now in the state are very different from what it was in 1994. Back then, the Congress was still going strong despite its dismal fall to 34 seats from the 178 in the previous polls (1989) and the BJP’s Hindutva was not as deeply entrenched. Also, the undivided Janata Dal had stalwarts like Ramakrishna Hegde, J H Patel, S R Bommai and Siddaramaiah besides Gowda to provide steam for the party.
 
 The JD(S) opened accounts in constituencies where the party has no presence today. The party made inroads in the coastal belt, bagging two seats — Moodabidri and Brahmavar. This is in addition to seats in Raichur, Kalaburagi and Dharwad districts, while sweeping old Mysuru area comprising Tumakuru, Mandya, Mysuru and Hassan.
 
 The biggest prop for the JD(S) was the Muslim votes, which until then were the monopoly of the Congress. When elections were held two years after the demolition of the Babri Masjid, political analysts say the Congress in Karnataka bore the brunt of the minorities’ anger.
 
 Muslims are the second largest community in the state after scheduled castes and tribes. According to a Congress leader, they are the deciding factor in 100 to 150 assembly constituencies. According to a leaked caste census report, Muslims constitute 12.5% of the total population. Six districts — Kalaburagi, Bidar, Yadgir, Raichur, Koppal and Ballari — in the Hyderabad-Karnatak region have a significant Muslim vote bank.
 
 Just as former chief minister   rewarded the scheduled castes for their support in 2008 by giving them ministerial posts, Gowda made his confidant, C M Ibrahim, now a Congress MLC, president of the state Janata Dal in 1994. Speculation is rife that the JD(S) is reaching out to Ibrahim to join the party as his tenure as MLC is ending shortly.
 
 Ibrahim’s equations with Siddaramaiah have soured. Kumaraswamy had announced that if the JD(S) comes to power on its own strength, a Muslim will be made the DyCM. With JD(S) MLA B Zameer Ahmed Khan set to join the Congress shortly, the JD(S) is looking for a replacement. “Enough is enough. We constructed houses for the Congress and JD(S), now it’s time we go and stay in them,” a Muslim Congress functionary said.
 
 While the JD(S) is working to reinvent itself, it will be a triangular contest once again this time. A senior BJP functionary revealed the party will use the JD(S) as a buffer to oust the Congress. “We want the JD(S) to thrive,” he said. “The JD(S) votes will not hurt us. AICC president Rahul Gandhi is not a factor in Karnataka. Congress is a ‘no agenda party’ except for Siddaramaiah’s politics. The CM’s attacks on us will only undermine him.”
 
 The BJP plans to take its fight to Siddaramaiah’s constituency in the old Mysuru area. “We want to block Siddaramaiah and keep him engaged there. For this we need the JD(S),” BJP sources said.
 
