MANALI: Snow-hit Manali residents on Wednesday braced themselves after plummeting temperatures froze water taps and a layer of frost covered everything as the night temperature plunged to minus 4.4 degrees Celsius.

 Wednesday was the first day of the year when tap water frozen due to extreme cold conditions. All water sources were covered with a thick layer of ice, with even plants donning a coating of frost. Temperature dipped after the sky turned clear on Tuesday night. 
 
  
  
 
 “After spending a cold night, I discovered that our tap water was completely frozen in the morning. We had to wait for sunrise to get water from taps,” a resident of   area of Manali, Jaswant Thakur, said. He added that his neighbours faced the same problem and some of them poured hot water on cold pipes. “We are happy that cold conditions have returned. We were worried with an abnormal rise in temperature in the last few days.”
 
  
  
 
 Conditions in   valley were worse with mercury settling at minus 11.6°C. Here the day temperature was also close to freezing point. Everything had turned into ice here.  , a resident of Keylong, said, the chill has increased sharply and water sources have frozen. “Some taps have dried up completely as the water at source has frozen. We are getting water from a few taps. Mostly, when tap water freezes, we bring water from natural springs.”
 
  
  
 
 Earlier, everybody was thinking that the   highway will open in early April. Now, the entire road between Manali and Leh has been covered with a thick layer of snow, mountain passes have received several feet of snow and more snow is expected till March end.
 
  
  
 
  The Lahaul valley received 30cm-60cm of snow on Monday and Tuesday while peaks here have received over 60cm of snow. With steep mountain faces, Lahaul has a large number of avalanche-prone areas. The possibility of avalanche increases in sunny day after snowfall. Lahaul-Spiti DC Ashwani Kumar Chaudhary said residents had been asked to stay cautious. “Lower areas, including Keylong, have less than a foot snow but isolated areas have received more snow. People have been advised not to go close to such areas,” he said.
 
 
