MUMBAI: Fresh cases were lodged against absconding Shiv Sena corporator from Nalasopara   and NCP’s Vasai-Virar chief   on Sunday after more builders came forth and alleged that the duo had extorted money after blackmailing them using information obtained through  .

 Gawde and Gunjalkar were booked for   misuse in Vasai-Virar on Saturday. While Gawde is absconding, Gunjalkar was arrested and later released on bail. However, when   officials went to arrest him in the fresh cases, he too had gone absconding.
 
 An RTI activist, Sanjay Kadam, and a lawyer, Longinis Farel, too were booked on Sunday. They too are on the run.
 
 According to one of the fresh complaints, Gunjalkar demanded Rs 1 crore between September 2013 and August 2015 from builder Shamsuddin Khan. Gunjalkar had allegedly obtained information about a forest department plot in Shivansai village, Vasai, where Khan was carrying out construction. Khan allegedly paid Gunjalkar Rs 5 lakh but the latter kept demanding more. 
 
 On Saturday, Gunjalkar was booked for seeking Rs 5 lakh from Palghar district Sena chief Shirish Chavan. He was let off on bail as cops could not submit sufficient documents to prove his involvement. 
 
 Gawde, who was booked in three cases on Saturday, has now been accused of extorting money from Bhayander builder Sanjay Salunke. Gawde and his accomplices—Amarjit Yadav, Ashok Dube and Rajesh Dube—allegedly demanded Rs 20 lakh from Salunke to withdraw a complaint about a construction going on in Chandrapada, Vasai (E). Salunke has told the police that he had paid Rs 10 lakh but Gawde’s men wanted another Rs 10 lakh. When he refused, they forcibly took possession of his two flats in Naigaon, Salunkhe said. He also alleged that the aides threatened him at gun point and made him sign on a blank stamp paper. 
 
 Meanwhile, a Vasai builder, Maxwel Misquita, has complained that RTI activist Kadam extorted Rs 1.5 crore from him. Kadam, using RTI Act, found that Misquita’s seven-storey building in Bungli village was illegal and began threatening him from September 2016. Misquita said he paid Rs 50,000 and was being harassed by Farel to pay the remaining cash. 
 
 In another case, Kadam sought Rs 5.5 lakh from a builder, Khalid Shaikh, to withdraw a complaint of illegal construction against him. Shaikh had paid Rs 50,000 in August and was being harassed for the remaining cash.
 
 
