The season is still painting a cold, predawn darkness at Mumbai’s   promenade, but that does not deter the city’s regular bunch of walkers and   from keeping their morning date. And this holds true more for women fitness lovers, who remain unfazed by the recent incident, where five bikers, including two minors harassed three young women near Girgaon  . In fact, they want to teach the   men a thing or two! “If we find any of these men, we’ll box them,” says Masjid Bunder resident Sapna Redia, who goes on a walk with her daughter Charvi and friend Mamta Shah on that stretch. 

 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 These days, more   are patrolling the area to ensure that joggers and walkers are not disturbed. For instance, the predawn hour of the day is apt for a group of Saturday women runners from Girgaon. Walkeshwar-based resident Swaroop Dhume, a dentist by profession, says the incident is not going to stop her 5 am run. “When I read about the incident, it made me a little insecure, but the presence of cops makes me feel better. This is the first time I’ve taken up running in a group and we have a nice time together. But another matter of concern are the speeding bikers, who ride too close to the pavement when we jog,” she says. 
 Arti Kothari will be jogging here until her usual venue at Kamala Nehru Park gets renovated. She shares, “I would say it’s pretty safe to be here around 6 am, you’ll find lots of walkers at the time.” But Nisha Rawat, a software consultant from Churchgate, admits to being worried on hearing about the episode on her fitness group on WhatsApp. “We run very early from Marine Drive to Haji Ali, especially when we train for city mini-marathons. It can get lonely when runners fall back from the group. We’ve been told to keep whistles, so that we can create an alarm, should the need arise.” 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 The city police, who have been patrolling the Marine Drive stretch on foot and vans, have stepped up the beat. Says PSI Chavan, “Everyday we do a patrol here from NCPA to Mafatlal. The slip-up was that the man, who called 100, should have got a swift and better response by the police bus,” he says. 
 Chavan and his team are also combing the stretch for any untoward incident and for unsavoury characters. “We need more lighting in a few areas like this,” he says, pointing to the beach stretch just near the bath club. “Marine Drive is a safe place, but a few stray people spoil things.”
 There is also sufficient women police officers’ presence at the place. Dr Rashmi Karandikar, DCP, Ports — a tough-as-nails cop — makes regular rounds with her lady constables. She affirms, “I do foot patrolling from here to Mahalakshmi. I have been talking to the girls who run here. I also I meet several ladies who walk here regularly. They’re happy that we are there as they go about their fitness routines.”
 
 
 
 Over 10 days ago, financial company executive Ashit Shroff was out jogging near Girgaum Chowpatty, when he saw three young women being harassed by five bike-borne youths around 5.20 am. As per reports, he tried to report the incident to patrolling cops, but did not find one. He called up the police emergency number ‘100’, but a cop got back much later. As it was dark, Shroff couldn’t note down the registration number of the bikes. The women managed to hail a cab near the   and left. On spotting a police bus, he approached it to report the incident. He is quoted to have said, “At Sunder Mahal junction, I noticed a police bus and told a constable about the incident. He said he belonged to the ‘Elite-2’ team. I asked whether he could broadcast a message on his walkie-talkie or if I should call up the Marine Drive  . He said he would send a message. This was at 6 am. On my way back to Churchgate, I called up the Marine Drive police and told the on-duty officer, Pawar, about the incident. He said a patrolling van would be sent. At 6.22 am, I left a message on the police emergency number ‘100’ because I couldn’t see any patrolling cops at Churchgate.” As per the report, he got a call from a cop at 7 am.
 
 
 
