MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on January 2 directed that a woman who is over 27 weeks pregnant and identified by her doctor to have multiple foetal abnormality be examined by a panel of doctors at the governmentrun JJ hospital.

 A report by a doctor who had examined the pregnant woman states that the stomach was not visible in the tiny foetus which also has congenital heart and brain abnormalities. The woman,  , approached the HC on Tuesday for orders to have her examined so that she could permitted to have an abortion.
 
 Vacation judge Justice   who heard her plea was informed that her foetal abnormalties were discovered when she was examined on December 26. In India, an abortion is illegal when the pregnancy has gone beyond 20 weeks.
 
 Her lawyer cited orders recently passed by the   in similar cases. The HC too had recently permitted such cases. The court perused a report submitted by the woman.
 
 Dr  , a city-based gynaecologist, is at the forefront of a legal battle to extend the cut-off period for abortions to beyond 20 weeks, Dr  , during an ultrasonography conducted on December 26 last year, had detected that the foetus, with gestational age corresponding to 27 weeks and four days, suffered from several anomalies. The brain had ‘ iniencephaly cerebellar hypoplasia, a neurological condition in which the cerebellum is smaller than usual or not completely developed.
 
 The heart had ‘artriumventricularseptal defect’ and double outlet single ventrical and the stomach was not visible in the tiny foetus. Justice Shinde on seeing the report directed that the woman be examined by a medical board of Sir J J Group of Hospitals, Mumbai.
 
 The board would consist of its dean, head of the department (Gynaecology), professors and head of department of paediatric cardiac surgeon, professors of head of department of radiology and psychology and any other experts in the field.
 
 “She has to be examined by the medical committee by January 4, 2018 and report about her mental health and physical condition in regard to the relief claimed by her for termination of pregnancy be submitted on January 8, 2018,’’ directed Justice Shinde. The high court will hear the matter next on January 8.
 
