NEW DELHI: The interrogation of the civil services aspirant, who was arrested two days ago for murdering a seven-year-old child, has revealed that he planned the murder over three months after watching a television series.

 The man, Avdesh  , kept placing “clues” under the seven CCTV cameras installed by the child’s family and the area RWA to mislead the investigators.
 
 Sakya said that after murdering the child he kept a track of the movements of the cops. He even directed them to look for the child in a ragpickers’ colony indicating that the boy may have been trafficked. Sources said that he had even showed one of the investigators CCTV footage of a suspicious   in which he claimed to have seen the kidnapper carrying the child.
 
 Incidentally, in one of the footages recorded a few days before the murder, Sakya was seen carrying the suitcase in which he had stuffed the child’s body after killing him. Cops started considering him a suspect as he seeming quite keen in “solving” the abduction.
 
 Police also questioned Sakya’s girlfriend whom he used to present as a   officer to the family members of the child. She said that Sakya used to beat her up, so she had distanced herself from him. When she refused to come, the accused posed as an undercover intelligence bureau agent to influence the child’s family members.
 
 The accused claimed to having murdered the child as he felt hurt after being stopped by his parents from meeting him. Probe is on to find out if he had sexually assaulted the child. A laptop, 10 SIM cards and several cans of perfume have been seized from his room. Some books and notes recovered from his room are being scanned. He had used the SIM cards to make the ransom call of Rs 15 lakh, police said.
 
 At one point, Sakya started staying with the child’s grandfather feigning illness as he could not bear the stench of the decomposed body in his room. He even went to the terrace and slept in the cold. Sources said he is still trying to mislead the cops about the motive behind the gruesome murder.
 
 
