COIMBATORE: After a few months, don’t be surprised to see boards with   instead of advertisements on   at RS Puram. The Coimbatore city municipal corporation is planning to redesign the road with a theme - Thirukkural.

 “There are advertisement boards on the road sides which are haphazardly placed. We wanted to not just replace them but also give it a cultural facelift,” said a city-based architect.
 
 The aesthetic revamp is part of the functional upgradation of the 1.8km stretch as a model road. The model road project will make D B Road as well as T V Samy Road more pedestrian-friendly. Once the revamp is done, the civic authorities do not want the haphazard advertisements to be an eyesore.
 
 Apart from pedestrian-friendly footpaths, these two roads will have ducts for cables, ramps for differently-abled, table top road-crossing facility, garbage bins, rainwater harvesting structures and parallel parking system.
 
 “Like Church Road in Bengaluru that was redesigned with their local embroidery design to replicate their culture, we are planning to infuse Tamil culture here,” said   from the Institute for   (ITDP). She added that couplets of Thirukkural along with its explanation would be displayed at frequent intervals on the road. The civic authorities are figuring out the number of couplets and other aesthetic elements that can go with Thirukkural on the boards.
 
 Along with the boards, the corporation is also planning to provide sitting space with furniture for commuters, said an official from the corporation. “The entire road would be designed in such a way to harvest rainwater,” the sources added.
 
 The corporation is planning to spend around Rs 24 crore from the ‘Smart City’ project fund to redesign the road. “We will call for tenders soon and complete the project soon,” said a senior corporation official. The design work has been completed and technical sanctions alone are pending.
 
 The project that began in 2015 was kept on hold after environmentalist raised an alarm over tree-cutting. At the time, the project cost was about Rs 5.47 crore for two stretches – D B Road and T V Samy Road.
 
 
