PUNE: A 32-year-old labourer died of severe head injuries and five others were injured after they fell from a 30ft height while repairing a stone crusher at Dhayari on Friday evening. 

 The police on Monday said all the workers were on a platform that could accommodate three to four persons while repairing the machine. The platform crashed because of the overload and the workers atop fell on the ground. 
 
 Rama Gejage, a resident of   in Katraj, fell on his head and died. The   police on Sunday registered an offence of causing death due to negligence against an owner of the crusher.
 
 Sinhagad Road police sub-inspector Dhulaji Kolpe said Dhayareshwar Stone Crusher is located in the Raikar Mala area in Dhayari. On Friday, the gear box of the motor that rotates the belt of the crusher had developed some technical problem. 
 
 “Six labourers were involved in the repair work of the gear box. All of them were standing on the platform near the machine, which is about 30-ft high,” Kolpe said.
 
 “The platform had the capacity to carry hardly three persons. It could not sustain the weight of six persons and came crashing down on the ground around 6.30pm on Friday,” he added.
 
 All the six labourers fell on the crushed stones on the ground and sustained injuries. Gejage had sustained severe head injuries in the accident, while   (32), Anish Ur Rahman Shaikh (23),   (30),   (30) and Parashuram Talekari (30), all from Raikar Mala, escaped wtih injuries on their legs, hands and other body parts. 
 
 “All of them were taken to a nearby hospital, where Gejage succumbed to the injuries. The injured labourers have been discharged from the hospital,” Kolpe said .
 
 Probe revealed that the owner of the crusher had not provided the labourers with any safety gear. “Besides, the owner had accommodated six labourers at a time on the platform despite knowing that it had a limited capacity,” Kolpe said.
 
 The probe by the police is on and the owner of the crusher is yet to be arrested. 
 
 This is not the first time that labourers have died at workplace in the absence of adequate safety gear. A construction labourer died after soil caved in on him on Monday while he was working in a ditch at a construction site at Rahulnagar in Kothrud.
 
 In October last year, three workers were killed and one was injured when a wooden shuttering support they were installing for an 11th floor slab caved in at an under construction housing project on Sinhagad road.
 
 
