NOIDA: Commercial vehicles passing from Noida to Delhi have been allegedly evading paying toll at the DND Flyway ever since the booths were shifted two weeks ago.

 Four new counters for collecting toll have been placed on four lanes opposite the DND flyway office. While most taxi drivers claimed they were unaware of the new booths, officials of a private company assigned to collect toll said the   were deliberately choosing the lanes meant for regular commuters to avoid the four lanes dedicated to collect the fee.
 
 A representative of MEP Infra, which has been appointed the contractor by SDMC for collecting toll and environment compensation charge, told TOI that there were some who did not know about the four dedicated lanes but many who were evading paying tax to the agency.
 
 “Our flying teams are stopping the commercial vehicles with yellow number plates and asking them to pay the toll and then proceed,” he said.
 
 On Sunday and Monday, too, a group of the toll company’s officials could be seen signalling the cabbies to keep towards the toll booths on the left.
 
 The taxi operators, however, claimed that though the members of the flying squads had been charging them Rs 200 each as penalty for not paying toll, they had not been issuing any receipt.
 
 “I was travelling to Delhi from Noida to pick up a customer from the India Habitat Centre. There was no one to signal or guide me towards the toll booth and I did not know that the booths had been shifted. I was stopped a few metres ahead and Rs 200 was taken from me in the name of penalty. But the officials did not issue any receipt. On the contrary, they used foul language,” said  , a driver with a private cab service.
 
 On Sunday, many such drivers were caught by the toll company’s “flying squad”, he said.
 
 Nitin Mahajan, the in-charge of the toll booths at DND, said many drivers had been deliberately evading the toll. “It has been 10 days already (since the booths were shifted). But they are trying to evade paying Rs.100. We are issuing a receipt for the same,” he said.
 
 Asked by this paper for the receipts, he refused to show them.
 
 Sandeep Kumar, the additional deputy commissioner of SDMC, said they would look into the complaints of the taxi operators if they were given in writing.
 
 “The toll company officials have said that the lower-rung staff might be indulging in this practice. We have a clause for collection of Rs 500 as penalty from cabbies trying to evade toll,” he said.
 
 
