In March 2012,   stakeholders were buoyant with   taking over as chief minister, hoping that   would undergo radical changes long overdue.

 
  
 
 Previous governments had shown complete disinterest towards introducing tourism reforms. With Parrikar at the helm of affairs, industry stakeholders felt that expected changes would take place.
 
 The government announced some novel initiatives to promote Goa. The budget outlay for tourism was increased from Rs 95 crore in 2011-12 to Rs 261 crore in 2012-13. The beach shack policy was modified and a consortium of advisory services was selected to prepare a tourism master plan. For a change, Goa tourism looked like it was moving in the right direction.
 
 Six years later, the changes hoped for by the industry are yet to be realised even as tourist footfalls have increased.
 
 Former tourism official, U D Kamat, expressed his disapproval at the crores of rupees spent on promoting Goa in foreign countries without calculating returns it will yield, while ignoring basic infrastructure in the state.
 
 “Goa is an established international tourist destination today. It doesn’t need wider promotion as is done by spending crores of rupees. Why go to US, Japan and Australia? It is a sheer waste of money,” he said.
 
 Some feel that Goa is losing its sheen as an international brand. What’s worrying is that the state has not developed a new market after Russian tourists began arriving in large numbers.
 
 Though domestic tourists have helped stakeholders sustain their business, industry watchers are concerned. The cost of holidaying in Goa is ever increasing and industry stakeholders have been repeatedly complaining about increased taxation when compared to rival South East Asian tourist destinations.
 
 Former president, Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG), Francisco de Braganca, said the time has come to examine what gave Goa its USP in the first place.
 
 Even four decades after tourism took off in Goa, the government seems confused as to what category of tourists it wants to target. It is no secret that although the number of tourist arrivals has tripled, infrastructure facilities to cater to this influx is lacking. In the absence of a tourism policy, Goa tourism seems clueless about the way ahead. While the state has been branding itself as an “international destination”, its inability to prepare a tourism policy for itself raises several questions.
 
 How long will ‘Brand Goa’ survive unplanned tourism? The state government has to get its act together before it’s too late.
 
