
If you are a homemaker, your spouse typically offers a lump sum every month to manage household expenses. Make sure it does not include the amount for your personal needs and wants. This amount is rightfully yours for all the household work you perform without being paid. According to a 2011 study by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the average Indian woman spends nearly 6 hours a day doing unpaid work. We estimate that a   in an average, urban, middle-class family deserves at least ?45,000 a month. It doesn’t have to be this exact amount, but you should get it as your right, not a favour.
 
 
 
 Do not hesitate to ask your spouse to buy a family floater plan, which is a health plan to cover the entire family, including you. If you live in a metro, the cover should be ?5-10 lakh. As you grow older, nearing 40, you will also need a critical illness plan besides the basic medical plan. This is due to the rise in lifestyle diseases and soaring medical inflation. The cover should be ?20-25 lakh and can be bought for both you and your spouse.
 
 
 
 If you don’t have any income, but have kids and the husband has taken loans, insist that the spouse buy life insurance for himself. A term plan will take care of your immediate and future financial needs in case your husband passes away unexpectedly. The cover should be 4-5 times the annual income, and more if there are loans. Make sure these are not the traditional endowment or  , but term plans which exclusively cover life without offering any returns.
 
 
 
 Try not to shy away from  , leaving all the investments to your spouse. If you are not too keen about handling these yourself, at least make sure you are aware of the instruments in which the money has been invested and where the financial documents are stored. Another important detail to check is that you have been named the nominee or joint holder in all the accounts and investments. This will translate to ease of operation and transfer of financial benefits in case of your spouse’s untimely death.
 
 
 
 In the first few years of marriage, whether or not you take up employment, do not close the existing bank accounts or investments in your name. Even if the spouse suggests replacing these with a joint account, do not do so. Open the joint account, but continue with the single account to ensure that you retain financial independence. More importantly, if the marriage does not work out, you will still have access to your money.
 
 
 
 On an average, women tend to live 5-7 years longer than men, which means that you will need the retirement funds to be available to you if you outlive your spouse. So convey to the spouse that the longevity of the retirement kitty should be linked to your life expectancy, not his. Only if the age difference between the two of you takes care of the life expectancy gap, should the spouse make calculations based on his age.
 
 
 
 If you have learnt to operate your smartphone, you can surely learn how to carry out mobile or Net banking and keep tabs on online investments. This will ensure that you are in the know about financial dealings and don’t have to depend on the spouse for everything.
 
