HYDERABAD: Post-graduate students studying in Osmania University’s ( ) constituent and affiliated colleges will now be able to seek re-evaluation of their answersheets based on photocopies. This decision was taken during the university’s academic senate meeting held on Saturday.

 “Earlier, students could only seek photocopy, but not do anything about it. But from the academic year 2018-19, students can apply for re-evaluation after seeking photocopy of their answersheet,” said S Ramachandram, OU vice-chancellor.
 
 Various issues were discussed at the senate meeting, attended by deans and head of departments and senior officials.
 
 OU officials also decided to revive the MSc diploma course in hospital management. “The course was discontinued due to fewer takers. Now, the standing committee decided to revive the course as it is job oriented. Several hospitals are now looking for management personnel,” said Ramachandram.
 
 The department of journalism and mass communication will also commence 15 new certificate courses from the ensuing academic year.
 
 While presenting budget for 2018-19, Prof  , dean, faculty of management said, “In spite of pooling in resources available, there is a shortfall of Rs 63.18 crore, against the total expenditure of Rs 686.77 crore on pay and allowances, pensions and maintenance. As the block grant allocated to OU for 2018-19 is not sufficient, the government will be requested for sanction additional funds to overcome the shortfall,” said Rao.
 
 With financial assistance of the state government, the university intends to construct new academic blocks at an estimated cost of Rs 40 crore, new buildings for  , model high school and Nizamia Observatory, Japal Rangapur at Rs 30.50 crore, restoration and renovation of old buildings such as Arts college, science, college at ?10 crore. Restoration and renovation work of old hostel building at university college of science,   will also be taken up at acost of Rs 2 crore.
 
 “We also propose to establish Dr   and Study Centre for innovation and incubation, and Centre for Telangana Studies, estimates for which are yet to be drawn,” said Ramachandram.
 
