BHOPAL: Four days after the attack on an IFS officer, the   opened fire on police in Bamhori village.

 In the incident on Saturday morning, a group of people attacked a police van and freed four tractor trollies laden with sand. This is the third big incident in the district in the last 15 days. Earlier, the mafia men had attempted to run over a Naid tehsildar.
 
 According to information, the attack took place at Badorakala village in   tehsil. Police received a tip-off that large scale illegal sand mining was taking place on the banks of Ken river. Bamhori police station in-charge Rajesh Pandey rushed to the spot and four tractors were confiscate.
 
 Soon after, a group of people gathered at the spot. One person from the crowd fired a shot in the air to terrorise the police, an eyewitness said. The police retaliated by firing four shots — which lead to a round of firing from both parties. When the bullet got stuck in the country-made weapons of the mafia men, they threw the desi katta at the cops, said the eyewitness. 
 
 More people started assembling at the spot, after which police decided to beat a hasty retreat. As soon as the cops were about to drive away, lathi wielding men attacked them. In the melee, all four tractor trollies laden with sand were taken away by the mafia men.
 
 SDO (Police) Luvkush Nagar, Laxman Anuragi confirmed the incident of ‘freeing of tractors’. Anuragi said that some cops have “spiced up the incident while narrating it to the media”. He confirmed however that “there was some confrontation”.
 
 Sources said that three days ago, sand mafia had threatened to kill a patwari in Gaurihar Amit Saxena. He had gone to Mishranpura village Chattarpur district after reports of large scale storage of illegally mined sand.
 
 After the threat, he registered a police complaint. Later, the district administration initiated action and confiscated the sand mound. The mineral was handed over to the village panchayat.
 
 Last week, an officer of Indian forest services (IFS) Abhishek Tomar escaped murderous attack from the mafia when the people involved in mining first tried to run over tractor on him and then opened fired from a country made weapon.
 
 And before that mafia men made a similar attack on Sanjay Garg, a naib tehesildar in Chattarpur district.
 
 
