NOIDA: Nearly hundred members of Dalit  , (DUSM) Noida protested against the change of name of   sector 30 to   by Uttar Pradesh government. The members of   took out a candlelight march against the change of name late Thursday evening from   sector 30 to the district hospital in sector 30 and demanded the reversal to earlier name. The members maintained that while govt is giving importance to Dr   by way of making it mandatory to put his pictures in all government offices, then how come the move is justified in the case of district hospital in Noida.

 “A candle march protest demonstration was carried out by   members from Ram Vihar to the district hospital in sector 30 late Thursday evening under Balakram Pradhan, senior member of DUSM Noida in protest against the change of name of Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar Multi-speciality Hospital to Government District Combined Hospital by Uttar Pradesh government of late. We want the original name back with Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar incorporated in it,” said  , general secretary DUSM.
 
 On this occasion Pradhan maintained that Dr Ambedkar is not only a leader of the dalit community/society, but is also recognised as one of the greatest leaders for the entire country. “All castes and communities of India recognise Dr Ambedkar as a great leader of our country. However, the way in which the name of the district hospital was changed by dropping the name of Baba Saheb amounts to disrespecting Dr Ambedkar and his contribution to the country,” said Pradhan.
 
 Pradhan goes on that while on one hand, the government is making it compulsory to put a photograph of Dr Ambedkar in every government office, on the other hand, the dropping of Dr Ambedkar’s name from the district hospital in Noida contradicts the very move of the government. “We request the state government to take this matter seriously and reverse to the original name of the hospital with immediate effect,’ said Pradhan.
 
 The issue arose following the BJP-led state government’s recent decision to take over the district hospital from March this year after Noida Authority expressed inability to run it citing shortage of funds. Following the government's decision, a new board going back to the previous name of the health facility — Government District Combined Hospital — has come up on the premises dropping the earlier board mentioning Ambedkar’s name on it.
 
 Other present during the march included Bhimaraj Jatav, Pratim Singh, Uday Singh, Jagat Singh, Deepchand Jatav, Rajkumar Monu, Arun Kumar, Dayaram Jatav, Harpal Singh, Bedpal, Mohit Jatav, Rajkumar, Satbir, Pramod Rajendra, Phool Singh, Vikram Singh and more.
 
