KOLKATA: The presence of two   gathering on Thursday, convened to protest against “Israel’s treatment of Palestine”, has pitchforked the 29   men, women and kids — now settled in a   — to the centre of a legal and political debate.

 
 State government officials shied away from making a direct comment on the free movement of recent Rohingya arrivals but said they were waiting for the January 31 Supreme Court hearing on the issue to decide on how to proceed.
 
 TOI, in its Friday edition, reported on the plight of 29 Rohingyas, who fled   amid allegations of ethnic cleansing that started in August 2017. They have now settled in a village near Baruipur after crossing two borders — between Myanmar and Bangladesh and then Bangladesh and India — and travelling more than 5,330km across several Indian states and cities.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 Many Rohingyas have been in Bengal’s prisons since 2010 after being booked under the Foreigners Act and reports of the recent arrivals’ free movement have added to the debate on how the latter should be treated. Bengal parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee declined any comment on the issue as it “was sub judice”.
 
 The BJP-led Centre and the Trinamool Congress-led state government have publicly clashed on how to handle the Rohingya arrivals.
 
  The state sees it as an essentially humanitarian issue, which directly contradicts BJP’s security apprehensions.
 
 “As far as I know, 40,000 Rohingyas have entered Bengal. They may include the 29 Rohingyas who have taken shelter in Baruipur,” state BJP president Dilip Ghosh said on Friday.
 
 Accusing the Bengal government of flouting Union home ministry directives and sheltering “jihadis and terrorists”, BJP president Dilip Ghosh said he would take up the matter with the Centre.
 
 The All-Bengal Minority Youth Federation, which had organised the Mayo Road protest, now wants to wash its hands of the matter. General secretary Md Kamaruzzaman told TOI on Friday that he “did not bring these men to the meeting”.
 
 “They came on their own. I came to know about the Rohingyas during my visit to Baruipur. I saw a months-old baby sleeping on the ground without clothes. I gave the family members Rs 500 each and also promised to buy cots for the children. I did this purely on humanitarian grounds,” he added.
 
 But Hossain Gazi of the Desh Bachao Samajik Committee from Baruipur, which has sheltered the 29 Rohingyas, did not shy away from stating that he was all for the Rohingyas. He wrote to Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee on Thursday, demanding permanent identity cards for Rohingyas housed in camps across the country. “There are some among the refugees who have the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) cards. They don’t want to go back to Myanmar because they fear persecution,” Gazi said in the letter.
 
 Banerjee’s government has insisted on a “humanitarian” approach instead of putting the “terrorist” tag on every Rohingya. 
 
 “The government has to take action if any terrorist is here but commoners should not suffer. We are talking of humanity. Humanity suffers when commoners suffer,” the CM had said in August after the centre had asked Rohingyas to leave by September 2017.
 
 
