PUNE: Five friends, who left a party inebriated, wound up in a car accident that killed two of them in March this year. In February, a drunk motorist hit a traffic policeman fracturing his hand.

 These cases are among the many instances of   in Pune lead to road accidents. Statistics from the Pune police show that of the 1,507 accidents in Pune city in 2017, nearly 32 were due to drunk driving.
 
 In 2018, till April 2, nearly six of the 243 accidents since January this year were due to drunk driving. “Though the number of accidents due to drunk driving seems small, we frequently see many accidents caused by inebriated motorists or drivers. This number seems small because the cause being ‘drunk driving’ may not be mentioned in the FIR registered on the accident spot, and it is only later that the hospital report reveals that the injured or the victim was driving inebriated,”  , deputy commissioner of police (traffic), said.
 
 Traffic police data about drunk driving showed that such cases have risen in the city. In December 2017, there were over 8,000 cases and in March 2018, these cases had already crossed 2,000, the highest drink and drive cases recorded by the police in the last one year—since March 2017. Experts said that drunk driving is one of the major causes of accidents, right next to other causes like road rage, speeding and rash driving.
 
 In 2017, the Pune traffic police took action against 1,144 motorists for driving under the influence of alcohol on the intervening night of December 31 and January 1. Apart from these offenders on the last night of 2017, police also took action against 600 motorists on December 29 and 30, 2017. This explains the 8,044 drunk driving cases in December 2017 alone, the highest in any month in the last one year.
 
 Another traffic department official told TOI that festivals like Holi see the highest number of drunk driving cases as does New Year’s Eve. “Drunk driving cases are submitted to the court with a request to take these cases seriously. The accused are fined anywhere upward of Rs 2,000,” a police officer said. 
 
 A vehicle does not remain safe if the driver is inefficient. It is an established fact that alcohol affects the central nervous system of the driver.
 
 “Even at lower levels of alcohol in blood, the sense of judgement is impaired along with the ability to control the steering. Vision and steady concentration are also affected. Alcohol combined with driving increases the incidence of traumatic vehicular injuries and deaths,” a source from the   (CADD) said.
 
  of   said drunk driving, speeding and rash driving are the three most serious traffic offences, with significant contribution to accidents. 
 
 “Drunk driving seems to put the driver in a more precarious situation because his senses do not work while drunk. Though speeding and rash driving are equally grave, drivers in such cases can take control of the vehicle if they wish to, while the drunk driver cannot even if he tries,” he said.
 
 Patwardhan said most police action on traffic offences is aimed at jumping a red light, while no consistent action is seen on other traffic offences, including drunk driving.
 
 Prashant Inamdar, convener of city-based non-governmental organization Pedestrians First, said drinking cannot be curbed, but bringing awareness among drinkers can help curb it drunk driving. 
 
 “The authorities should make a condition of putting up mandatory awareness posters on the dangers of drinking and driving, while issuing liquor licences to bars and other such places. While people are sitting and drinking, they should be able to see such posters. A message on the dangers of drunk driving should also play at regular intervals on the television screens in bars and pubs,” he said.
 
 
