A seven-year-old Dalit girl from Noida, who was in   with her parents to attend the wedding of a relative, was allegedly raped by an unidentified person on Friday midnight.
 
  The girl’s parents were busy with the wedding and let the girl sleep outside the venue on a cot. When her parents returned, they found the girl injured and unconscious under the bed. She was rushed to a private hospital where doctors allegedly refused to operate on her. She was then taken to the district hospital where her condition is said to be stable.
  
  An FIR has been registered against an unidentified person under section 376 ( ) of IPC and sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and SC/ST Act on the complaint of the girl’s father. Police are trying to check a video recording of the wedding to identify the accused, who was wearing a green cap.
  
  The girl’s father said, “On Friday night, when everybody was busy welcoming the groom, my daughter was sleeping outside the house. After the ceremony was over, we initially couldn’t find her and later saw her lying unconscious under the bed. Everyone thought she had fallen off the cot. When we took her to a private hospital, they refused to treat her, suspecting sexual assault, and told us to take her to the district hospital, where doctors confirmed rape. However, doctors failed to provide good treatment to my daughter, who is still in pain.”
  
  Dr  , who treated the girl at the district hospital told TOI, “The patient was brought to the hospital at around 4 am and she had sustained serious injuries due to the assault. We have treated her and she has regained consciousness. Her condition is now stable. However, she needs to be kept under observation for some time.”
  
  Additional superintendent of police (city)   said, “We are rigorously searching for the accused, who was wearing a green cap and was possibly a guest at the wedding. The girl may be able to identify the accused and we are also examining the pictures and video recording of the ceremony. The condition of the girl has improved but we are asking her questions right now because she is still in shock.”
