Madurai: The Madurai bench of the Madras high court has said that all department heads in the state should follow the declaration stipulated under the   that a   had not taken any dowry. The court said this after dismissing a petition filed by a policeman against a charge memo issued against him. 

 In the case on hand, the policeman’s wife had complained before the police department that her husband who is a government servant has been harassing her demanding dowry. Based on that, a charge memo was issued against one R Senthilkumar by the deputy commissioner of police (Madurai city) on September 26, 2013. Senthilkumar then filed a case in 2013 seeking to quash the memo 
 
 His counsel argued that the petitioner’s wife is in the habit of filing frequent complaints against her husband and the charge memo was related to the petitioner’s private life. There is also a criminal case pending against him. Hence, the memo was to be quashed and the department’s disciplinary proceedings were to be kept in abeyance till the final disposal of the criminal case. 
 
 Rejecting the arguments, justice S M   said, “The conduct of public servants is of utmost importance and it is a paramount duty on their part to maintain their character and conduct throughout their official lives. The allegation against the petitioner is in relation to the demand of bribe and by citing pending criminal case, he shall not be allowed to escape from the clutches of the disciplinary proceedings.”
 
 The judge also said that as per the said rules, the government servant should not give or take or abet the giving or taking of dowry and not demand directly or indirectly any dowry from the parents or guardian of a bride or bridegroom as the case may be. Besides, the government servant should give a declaration that after marriage he has not taken any dowry.
 
 “But the government advocate is unable to ascertain that such procedure is scrupulously followed by the departments. Such being the case, the court is of the opinion that the head of departments are bound to issue circular / instructions to all the subordinate officials in the state to follow the declaration scrupulously and in the absence of receiving any such declaration, the same would attract the disciplinary and appeal rules,” the judge said.
 
 
