In the latest episode of  ,   wakes up in the middle of the night and switches on his laptop. Meanwhile,   continues to tell her story to  . She tells him how she was caught by Mr Kapoor when she was lighting the fire. However, her action makes him think that she was sent by Tej and Shakti. 

 Mr. Kapoor calls Shakti and accuses him of sending someone from the family to burn the mill without his knowledge. He comments on his attempt to claim the insurance money. Shakti looks at Tej, but the latter denies doing anything. Mr Kapoor asks them to come to the factory.
 
 In order to save herself, Roop then stabs Mr. Kapoor and hides herself before Tej, Jhanvi, Pinky and Shakti arrive. However, she manages to click Tej removing the rod from Mr Kapoor's body, making him look like the accused. Caught in a fix, Tej and the rest of the family decide to leave from the place silently. 
 
 Even though Veer is surprised to hear that his mother had killed Mr. Kapoor, he plans how they would release the pictures in the press. Roop further tells him that after the Oberois left, she decided to bury Mr. Kapoor's body but while she was doing so, Harshvardhan Tripathi, the foreman of the mill, saw her. She tells Veer how she hit him on his head even though he asked her to spare him as he had two daughters -   and Chutki. 
 
 Elsewhere, Shivaay looks at the picture of the foreman of the mill on his computer and finds his eyes familiar. When Anika gets up, he tells her about the same and decides to find out more. 
 
 Roop tells Veer how she made Harshvardhan a suspect in front of the police, who then took him to the hospital. However, Roop didn't spare him either. She turned into a nurse and killed him before he could tell the truth to anyone. 
 
 At the Oberoi mansion, Roop manages to gain everyone's sympathy by pretending to help them in crisis. Tej and Shakti apologize to her and ask her to stay in the house. They also offer to look after her child. 
 
 Roop and Veer then decide to manipulate the whole situation to their advantage, and break the very foundation of the Oberoi family. 
 
 
