CHENNAI: “I don’t know how I got the strength as I aggressively fought the attacker who had a long sword. I then had a blackout,” said   on Saturday.

 Talking to police from her bed at  , the 30-year-old software engineer from   who was pulled off her bike and robbed on February 13, said she crawled on to the main road so that she could get some help. She noticed only one assailant, she said. The incident occurred at  , just 2km from the IT Corridor, around 2am.
 
 Lavanya said she was going to the house of her sister Narisha Reddy in   when she was attacked. It was a dimly-lit stretch on the Thalambur-Perumbakkam Road, at least 4km before her sister’s residence. She was trying to negotiate a curve when a man stepped into her path. He attacked her with a sword, pulled her off the vehicle and dragged her into a clump of bushes, Lavanya told police. 
 
 It was Vinayagamurthy — one of the three men arrested on Saturday, a police officer said. The other two suspects were hiding on the other side of the road, apparently ready to attack anyone coming to help her.
 
 Lavanya said her assailant, in a yellow t-shirt, rudely told her to part with her gold jewellery. 
 
 “I refused and screamed for help. He then attacked me with the sword again. I tried to protect myself and was hit across the face,” she said.
 
 The man then sniped off the gold chain with a knife, cutting off a portion of her dress, she said. “He pulled off my gold bracelet, dragged me further into the bushes and returned to the road. I heard the noise of my scooter being started before it faded away and I blacked out.”
 
 After regaining consciouness, Lavanya said she found herself amid bushes. “I decided to go close to the road as someone was sure to come along,” she told additional commissioner M C Sarangan. She was bleeding profusely and kept crying out for help when a man came along, she said, adding that she blacked out again. After she received a bouquet of flowers and a ‘get well’ card sent by commissioner A K   from the police team, Lavanya said, “I am happy all suspects in the attack have been secured.”
 
 
