VIJAYAWADA: It seems some chartered accountants (CAs) are not living up to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s hope. On July 1, last year, when the Goods and Services Tax was rolled out and it coincided with the 68th Chartered Accountants’ Day, Modi in his address had said that the GST revolution would incentivise chartered accountants to play the same nationalist role as lawyers did in India’s struggle for independence. But as the battle against corruption in Andhra Pradesh intensified, the key role played by chartered accountants in helping corrupt officials, especially in  , has come to light.

 According to   ( ) sources, several CAs have been helping corrupt officials in money laundering. Speaking to TOI, Abhishek Verma, a private auditor explained that the services of CAs are made use of in exchange of hefty bribes. Most of them help corrupt officials establish shell companies. “Compared to regular auditing jobs, CAs look for high-profile businessmen, politicians and top bureaucrats to ‘augment’ their income. From creating shell companies to establishing a benami network, they work behind-the-scene to thwart enforcement agency’s efforts to book their clients.” Verma told TOI. 
 
 Even the ministry of finance has acknowledged the alleged role played by CAs in helping companies launder money. But authorities say that charges under the Prevention of Corruption Act can be initiated against CAs found conniving with corrupt officials.
 
 But interestingly, the enforcement agencies are also turning to CAs to nab their brethren. ACB acknowledges that CAs have been helping them gathering financial forensics and evidences for the enforcement agencies like   and also for the   (CBI).
 
 Director general of ACB RP Thakur said that their expertise has been crucial in gaining knowledge about financial auditing. “They can easily audit and understand how money is diverted and they can also analyse benami or hawala transactions. We have gained a lot of knowledge from our advisors through lectures, which help refine our investigations,” RP Thakur told TOI.
 
 But CAs have competition, sources say that not just CAs, often retired ACB officials also enter the business as consultants. 
 
 The government took cognizance of the role played by the CAs in acts of money laundering in the Prevention of Money Laundering (Amendment) Act, 2012, however it failed to specify the punishment for CAs. It is to nab these number-crunching geniuses that the government reportedly proposed to tweak the Act in 2017 and amend it again — this time spelling out the punishment for CAs. 
 
 
