Pune: For a sector that was used to at least double digit growth for years on end, the recent trends present a sobering reality. That the IT sector is under flux is something people have been witnessing through smaller pay rises, lower bench strength, higher employee churn and forced resignations.

 This year’s figures just lend more credence to these observations. Even mid-sized IT firms are not able to turn the ship faster. The three Pune-based listed IT firms —  ,   and   — have all reported numbers where the annual revenue growth rate is low single digits for Persistent and Zensar and barely a double digit growth for KPIT.
 
 To a large extent, companies often sought business overseas primarily because of this cost arbitrage, and the same — recent trends show — might be shrinking. “We are in that market because that is a conscious call we have taken. It bodes well for our business and our growth plans,” a top executive of one of the companies recently told TOI.
 
 Even though KPIT did manage better revenue growth — mainly because of its slightly more diversified business — it’s profit was a single digit, mirroring that of its city-peers, Persistent and Zensar.
 
 IT officials agree that the new wave of digital technologies adopted by clients has meant that the negotiation room has increased for clients. Almost all companies have an independent digital strategy but project incomes are decreasing and revenue is increasingly becoming outcome based.
 
 Even though the latest quarter (coinciding with the first quarter of these companies’ clients) showed some improvement, the sustenance of the same remains a question mark. Typically, clients open up to fresh IT budgets and more spending in the first quarter.
 
 IT leaders believe that in this era, diversification across geographies and offerings across verticals might come in handy for software firms in transition.
 
 “Almost everyone has an artificial intelligence lab these days and so that is becoming less of a differentiator … traditional IT will survive for a while but we are quickly moving to a space where digital business will come to dominate revenue. Constant fresh thinking is required,” said an IT leader, discussing his company’s strategy.
 
 Even now, most Indian IT firms are reluctant to look at India as a viable alternative. Start-ups are continuing to fill that space and get more business. “For IT companies used to the suaveness of the US and European markets, India becomes a tough and avoidable market to do business in,” said a CEO of an unlisted IT firm.
 
 
