NEW DELHI: For over a month since their son went missing, the Saini family of Swaroop Nagar in north-west Delhi looked at Avdhesh Sakya as a pillar of strength. He had confided in them his position as an ‘undercover CBI sleuth’ and promised to trace the seven-year-old. He went out with the cops on searches and enquired regularly from them about the progress of the course. On Tuesday, there was shock all around when police nailed Sakya for the kidnapping and killing of the boy and living with the body stuffed into a suitcase in his house for the past 35 days. 

 Sakya’s arrest was a rude jolt not just to the Sainis, but the cops too. Since January 7, when the child disappeared, Sakya had called the local SHO and beat officer every few hours to ask about developments in the case. He accompanied the investigators to every house in the neighbourhood; one of the cops even had water at his place once, little realising how close to the murder spot he was. “Avdhesh also went with the investigating officer to adjoining areas in search of the child,” a neighbour recalled.
 
 After a week, the case had become a mystery for police because there was no ransom call. The primary line of investigation then centred on child traffickers.
  
  
 The stink of decomposing flesh did Sakya in. But it wasn’t before he fended off all suspicions cleverly. Whenever the neighbours complained of a foul stench emanating from Sakya’s house, the man would dramatically emerge with a dead rat. He had killed a few and kept them for occasions such like these.
 
 However, when people noticed heavy perfume emanating from the windows, they suspected foul play. Police finally acted and searched his house. They recovered several incriminating perfume bottles there. The family and neighbours said if the cops had not been negligent, they could have cracked the case earlier. “Police, when looking for the kid, visited Avdhesh’s neighbour and checked a tank beside his house, but did not enter his house. They were convinced that the child was not there,” alleged Monika, a neighbour. Police refuted such accusations.
 
 The boy’s father, Karan Saini, disclosed that Sakya is a son of a family friend back in Etah in UP and had stayed with them for three years since 2011. “He had a habit of intervening in every small family matter and even went to the extent of complaining to my father about the time I returned home or what my wife wore,” said Saini. “We had once got into a fight about this.”
 
 Sakya left the house in 2014 when the Sainis brought it down to construct a new one. “But Avdhesh continued to visit us and called my father ‘uncle’ to win him over,” said Saini.
 
 Posing as a CBI official, Sakya had promised jobs to local youths. “Once he brought a woman with him. She was carrying an ID card with CBI printed on it, and we believed him,” said Saini. Later, they learnt that the woman lived with Sakya and alleged that he often thrashed her over petty arguments. The boy’s family wants the cops to probe the role of the woman in their son’s murder.
 
 
