PUNE: In little over a month, the   cell of the city police received eight complaint letters pertaining to virtual currency frauds, cumulatively valued at Rs 1 crore.

 In all the letters, complainants claim they have not only been cheated of their assured returns, but also the assured returns on those investments. Interestingly, most of the complainants did not mention the amount they had invested, though they have specified the promised returns in their complaint applications.
 
  
  
 These applications are in addition to the state’s first-ever virtual currency fraud-related FIR, which was registered by the   police on January 16. A 46-year-old woman entrepreneur from   had lodged the complaint stating that a techie had cheated her of Rs 13 lakh since August 2017. The Dattawadi police had then arrested the proprietor of a software company for duping several persons by investing their money in   and other cryptocurrencies and not returning the initially invested amounts nor the profits. So far, the police registered four cases against the techie for collectively duping people to the tune of Rs 42 lakh.
 
 Asenior officer with the cybercrime cell told TOI that the police have received eight complaint applications from persons who have been duped by people acting as middlemen or agents.
 
 “None of the complainants took the pain to visit the authorized websites of different virtual currencies or cryptocurrencies. Most of the complainants relied on the ‘intelligence’ of other persons, who acted as agents. They invested their money and just took a formal letter from the agents,” the officer said.
 
 Many city-based agents had invested their money in four different cryptocurrencies using the online transaction methods. Claiming that they had made huge profits, the agents encouraged others to invest in virtual currencies as well. The complainants, instead of investing on their own, gave their money to these agents. The money was either given in cash or was transferred into the accounts of the agents.
 
 A complainant, who resides in the   area, claimed that an agent had approached her. She had invested nearly Rs 7 lakh, some of which was her own money and the rest she had borrowed from relatives. The agent had promised returns worth Rs 20 lakh. However, she got nothing — neither the returns nor the invested amount.
 
 A senior police officer said, “Many people are still waiting for the profit on their investments. Once the bubble is burst, many more complaints are expected.”
 
