KOLKATA: India pacer Mohammad Shami’s relatives met his wife Hasin Jahan’s lawyer   on Sunday in a bid to broker an out-of-court settlement. Even though Hussain confirmed that such discussions had begun, he did not spell out the details. Also, “amicable discussions between the seniors of both the families are in progress,” said sources, adding that Shami’s relatives were at the same time in consultation with Kolkata-based criminal lawyers.

 When contacted, Hasin too confirmed this development, saying: “They have spoken to my lawyer. But I have received no calls myself.” Hasin said on earlier occasions, whenever she had tried to raise these issues,   had skirted them. However, ever since she uploaded some screenshots on the social media, the pacer has realized that he can no longer distance himself from her allegations. “If he really wants to change himself, if he is really serious about saving his family and this relationship, I am ready for a rethink,” she said.
 
 Meanwhile, Shami reiterated the same and said, “If this matter can be solved by talking, nothing can be better than that. Only patch up will do good for us and our daughter,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.
 
 Hasin, however, made it clear that she was circumspect about such moves by Shami and his relatives. “The matter is under investigation. I do not know whether at all it (a settlement) is viable now,” she said.
 
 “Before lodging the FIR, I had made several calls to Shami. All went unanswered. While being a wife, I am a mother too. My child’s future is also at stake. I had tried whatever I could to mend his ways, instead I got only threats and insults. I have nothing to say now. They have to speak to my lawyers,” Hasin said.
 
 She claimed that she was trying to save the relationship even now. Disputing Shami’s claim that he had tried to settle the issues by talking to her privately, Hasin said, “Ever since I posted (the screenshots) on a social networking site, I have received no calls from him. He had not taken calls from my lawyer even.”
 
 If this matter can be solved by talking, nothing can be better than that. Only a patch up will do good for us and our daughter.
 
