CHANDIGARH: Haryana government has prepared the draft of a policy for inter-district transfer of  , including  , junior basic trained (JBT) teachers, HT and classical and vernacular (C&V) teachers. Objections and suggestions have been invited from such teachers and their unions on this policy latest by February 28.

 According to the policy, teachers working on regular basis in elementary education department of the state government are eligible to be considered for transfer under this policy. All those teachers who have been recruited specifically against Mewat cadre would not be transferred out of the district. The applicant teacher will mention three districts of his or her choice on the MIS portal of the department.
 
 An official spokesperson of the department stated that at any point of time the department could have the district-wise requirement of teachers based on the latest rationalisation, along with the reserve staff. The reserve staff would meant for the vacancy created due to teachers being on various kind of leaves, like maternity, childcare, study or extraordinary leave.
 
 The spokesman said that ratio of regular teachers in a district in accordance with the requirement would be maintained as far as possible, which should be same as this ratio at the state level. Keeping this principle in mind, the department would specify the total number of teachers which could be posted in a district before initiating the transfer process. The department can exclude certain category of teachers from participating in the  by specifying the category and reasons for such a decision.
 
 He said if a teacher volunteers to participate in the transfer drive then it would be assumed that he or she consents to the change of his or her cadre and that his lien and seniority would be affected as specified in this policy. The department can specify additional conditions, which would be deemed to be consented by the teacher voluntarily participating in the transfer drive.
 
 
