PUNE: When the   started three weeks back with   taking on  , it was considered to be a battle of equals.
 
 
 
 
 It probably still is, at least on paper, just that the two teams are at two ends of the spectrum. While   have been irresistible with five wins, Mumbai Indians have seriously lost the plot.
 
 Five losses out of six have left them at a point of no return and there couldn’t have been a more difficult match for Rohit Sharma’s boys at this stage than CSK at Pune.
 
 CSK have been forced to change their home and it’s their second game at the venue, but it has hardly been an issue for them. The pitch is fine for the power hitters, the little bit of bounce helps the bowlers and the confidence in the CSK ranks coming from winning those tight games again and again — it’s a heady cocktail that MI have to contend with.
 
 But there’s absolutely no complacency in the CSK ranks. “The teams are at their most dangerous when they have nothing to lose. We have seen that in the past with CSK and how they have come back strong from very difficult positions. There’s no reason to think Mumbai Indians can’t do the same as well, given the talent they have,” CSK bowling coach Eric Simmons said ahead of a practice session on Friday.
 
 The South African is probably right. Mumbai, after all, have lost a few tight matches which could have gone either way. In fact their loss to CSK in the opener is sure to feature in the list of one of the best matches of the tournament.
 
 The MI management, too, is taking heart from the fact that they have come so close time and again. “We were never too far away from victory. The morale in the dressing-room is still pretty high and we believe we can make the play-offs,” reserve wicket-keeper batsman   said.
 
 The big worry for Mumbai has surely been the poor form of Kieron Pollard and it could be interesting to see if the management decides to drop him for this crucial clash. Though Tare said that the team management has faith in Pollard, there is talk of replacing him with either JP Duminy or Ben Cutting.
 
 But it’s not just about Pollard. Mumbai’s star Indian allrounder Hardik Pandya has been in poor form and that has affected the stability of the team severely. And CSK are masters of making the most of their opponent’s weaknesses.
 
  did that against short-on-confidence RCB bowlers the other night and there’s no reason to believe he hasn’t marked out the weaklings in the MI ranks.  , the famous Bangladesh death specialist, could well be one of them after being unable to make much of an impression in close contests this season.
 
 All these should make for an interesting contest on Saturday that can take CSK closer to that coveted top-two berth or put MI in a position where they have to all but give up hopes of making the play-offs.
 
 
