Nagpur: Nandanvan police seized Rs3.18 crore cash hidden in secret vaults in a SUV coming from Raipur, Chhattisgarh, on Sunday afternoon. However, a representative of the owner of the cash claimed there was Rs5.72 crore in the vehicle. Sources said an assistant police inspector (API) and two of his informers, who had tipped off the cops about the cash, are now under scanner, since the vehicle carrying cash was left alone with the two informers for 45 minutes. Sub-inspector Krishna Sonule and his team intercepted the white Duster (MH 31 FA 4611) at Prajapati Chowk at 2.30am. Drivers Rajesh Mendhe and Navneet Jain, who were clueless about the cash in the vehicle, were taken into custody. Sources said Mendhe and Jain were asked to sit in the police jeep while the SUV was driven by the two informers of the API. The police jeep reached the police station first, and the SUV with the cash still in it, driven by the API’s informers, reached some 45 minutes later. The two detained drivers, who claimed to be unaware of the cash, said they had been sent to Raipur with the SUV by Prashant Keswani of Wardhaman Nagar. Keswani told the drivers to drop an elderly woman at Raipur, where the woman had asked the drivers to leave the car at her place and go for snacks for some time. Sources said the cash apparently belongs to Khanjan Thakkar, owner of Maple Jewellers, and was found in four secret vaults under the carpet of the front and rear seats, and dickey. A representative of the owner is said to have claimed that there was Rs5.72 crore cash in the car. Refuting the claim, senior PI MN Nalawade, said that the representative did not bring any proof, and nor has the owner turned up with relevant documents. “The entire process, including recovery and counting of cash, and recording of statements, has been videographed. There is no scope for any allegations,” he said. “The case and cash have been handed over to the income tax department,” he added. Zonal DCP Nilesh Bharne said he would look into the allegations.