JAIPUR: After giving in-principle approval to the alignment of the North   Corridor proposed between Delhi Road (  and Agra Road, Bagrana), the   (JDA) will table the proposal in its 'authority meeting'. 

 The meeting will be chaired by urban development and housing (UDH) minister,   on May 22. Recently, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) had sought the suggestions and objections from the JDA after preparing the draft of the northern corridor. "The initial draft of the alignment was given green signal. We have asked the NHAI to incorporate our recommendations," an official said.
 
 The NHAI has been asked to construct an elevated structure at entry and exit points, which are proposed on Agra Road and Delhi Road. The authority has also recommended to construct proper drainage system on road. "We have also suggested that alignment should not infringe on the habitat area and water bodies," added the JDA official.
 
 Sources at JDA said, "The NHAI has prepared a draft for land acquisition to construct 50-km North Ring Road project, proposed to connect Delhi Road and Agra Road. The width of the northern corridor would be 60 metres. "Once the approval on the alignment is given, the work for land acquisition is expected to begin by the end of this year. It is quite possible that stone laying of northern ring road can happen during the inauguration ceremony of southern ring road," said the official.
 
 The official said that as per the initial plan, Ring Road was proposed to be constructed in phases. In phase III, it was proposed to construct a road with a length of 97.75 km in the northern part of Jaipur to connect Agra Road, Delhi Road, Sikar Road and Ajmer Road. It will consist of a six-lane access controlled expressway, a three-lane service road on both sides. "Now, the state government is only planning to construct the corridor to connect Delhi Road and Agra Road. Chandwaji Expressway would be used as Ring Road to Delhi Road and Ajmer Road via Sikar Road," sources said. 
 
 
