JAIPUR:   High Court seeks a report from principal chief conservator of forest (PCCF) on the spate of tiger deaths and other wild animals in   and other sanctuaries in Rajasthan. The forest department has been told to submit report by April 23.

 The single bench of Justice S P   issued the order during the hearing of a petition by the  . The court had summoned the officer in-charge of the sanctuary on April 11 in connection with the petition but he did not make the appearance in the court nor informed the court of any reason.
 
 The court said, it seeks a report from the PCCF on all wildlife deaths, including tigers and leopards in sanctuaries across the state, enumerating the reasons for the spate of unnatural deaths and the steps taken by the forest and wild life department prevent such incidents.
 
 The court during the hearing on Thursday observed that the report of the death of two tiger cubs at the due to poisoning is a matter of grave concern. Both tigers aged 18 months were from the litter of tigress T-79 and were found dead at Aanwad-ki-Khad of Sawai Man Singh Sanctuary in the park on Tuesday.
 
 This comes close on the heels of two tigers’ death –one each in Ranthambore National park and   reserve to poachers.
 
 On March 20, a male tiger from Sariska ST-11, which was four-year-old got strangulated after getting entangled in a barbed wire fence laid out by a poacher. The big cat was found dead in an agriculture field and caught in a trap laid by a poacher.
 
 A dominant male tiger T-28 popularly known as ‘Sitara’ died in Ranthambore after it was tranquillised while being rescued from a village on March 21. The 13-year-old male tiger T-28 was being rescued from a village in Khandar area on the park’s periphery. It had strayed close to  , where villagers had surrounded it.
 
 A forest department team reached the spot and on a rescue mission tranquillized the big cat but the tiger never got up after being tranquillized.
 
 Besides there were reports of deaths leopards after being entered the cities and the villages are now become common. 
 
 
