NAGPUR: The state police headquarters has, perhaps for the first time, shifted 11 officers of Assistant Police Inspector (API) rank enmass from the city to   range, the Maoist affected zone. Only one of the 11 APIs had requested the transfer to the tribal district.

 
 Apart from 11 APIs from the city, only five others from across the state have been sent to the range, comprising Gadchiroli and Gondia. Interestingly, no API from metros and towns like Mumbai, Pune, Thane, Nashik, Aurangabad etc in   have been shifted to Gadchiroli.
 
 The transfer order has triggered resentment among officials, who described it as “unprecedented in the city of chief minister  , who also hold home portfolio’. The transferred officers have questioned the criteria for transfers.
 
 Most of the 10 APIs sent to Gadchiroli have clean records and sound performance. Also, most have served some seven years in Nagpur, which is considered a challenge, as officers from Western Maharashtra are averse to working here. An officer said, on the condition of anonymity, “We have been made scapegoats. We expect the CM to look into this questionable posting.”
 
 Special IG, establishment,  , who issued the transfer orders, could not be reached despite repeated attempts at his office.
 
 Serving in Gadchiroli and some parts of Gondia is considered challenging and risky, as the responsibility here is tackling Maoists in their stronghold, with guerrilla warfare techniques. The inhospitable terrain, especially in Gadchiroli, also cuts off personnel from the rest of the state due to poor connectivity. The region is also infamous for malaria and snake bite deaths.
 
 “There would not have been any doubt if a handful had been transferred to Gadchiroli, but sending 10 APIs is surprising,” said another officer. “I had opted for nearby districts like Bhandara, Wardha and Nagpur rural, but was allocated Gadchiroli. When options are not considered, why are we asked?” he said.
 
 In the three lists comprising 526 officers of API rank, 38 APIs were transferred into the city while 47 were sent elsewhere in the state from here. “A very small percentage of officers from Western Maharashtra has been sent to Vidarbha,” said an officer.
 
 Former Director General of Police PKB Chakraborty, also ex-CP Nagpur, also said after perusing the list that the transfer of so many APIs from a single place to Gadchiroli appears to be unusual. “Two officers have been shifted from Gadchiroli to Gadchiroli range, which is even more baffling. However, headquarters will be in the best position to clarify,” he said.
 
