After being at the receiving end for one whole day, junior doctors finally withdrew their sudden strike late on Monday after having a discussion with additional chief secretary (health)  . Though their primary demand was that government should withdraw its decision that increased the retirement age of doctors, they had to be content with the bond relaxation approved by the government.

 The government agreed to relax the bond agreement for postgraduate medical students to one-and-a-half years from three. This was the only assurance given by the government. At the discussion, leaders of the expelled joint action council of junior doctors and medical PGs and the new medical PG leaders were present. The government refused to withdraw its decision that raised the retirement age of doctors. Earlier on Monday, a split in Kerala Medicos Joint Action Council led to the sudden strike by the junior doctors and PG medicos as they felt that the pact reached between the health minister and their leadership was unacceptable. This took the entire health machinery by surprise.
 
 Late on Sunday, the general body of Kerala Medical Post Graduates' Association (KMPGA) dissolved the joint council and removed the office-bearers of the joint council (Dr Rahul and Dr Midhun Mohan),   president Muneer and secretary   from their posts. KMPGA then decided to go ahead with the strike until the government gave a written assurance accepting their demands. Dr   and Dr   led the agitation.
 
 A day after junior doctors ended their strike, the outpatient (OP) wing of medical colleges were expecting a normal day with junior doctors and postgraduate medical students manning the OPs of different wings. Long queues formed at registration counters early as patients lined up for consultations. But, they had to endure an agonising wait as no one turned up, other than senior doctors of a few departments after 10am.
 
 “It was the most inhuman act by junior doctors. After reports of the strike ending on Sunday, OP wing witnessed a heavy rush. But, junior doctors and medical postgraduates did not turn up for duty. They are playing with the life of the public,” said a fuming medical superintendent of Thiruvananthapuram medical college Dr MS Sharmad.
 
 A visibly upset health minister K K Shailaja said the strike was not justified as the government had settled most of their demands and the group had assured the government of ending the strike.
 
 “The government was hoping that they would join duty on Monday. But, the sudden strike called by another section is unacceptable. The government will not allow them to paralyse the functioning of hospitals,” she added. The health minister has given specific instructions to all medical college principals to provide the details of doctors who joined duty on Monday. The government is expected to take a tough stand against those who boycotted duty. State planning board member Dr B Ekbal termed it an unfortunate event. “After reaching an agreement with the state government, the move by another section of doctors to strike work was disconcerting and unfortunate. There are hints that they might be protecting the interests of some others and not patients,” he said. “It is the duty of senior doctors and organizations of teachers at medical colleges to resolve such matters. They should make junior doctors realize the gravity of the issue. They are committed to provide healthcare and not launch strike on a whim,” said Dr Sharmad.
 
 But, state president of Kerala Government Medical College Teachers’ Association (KGMCTA) Dr Kavitha Ravi said the agitating group had struck work for a righteous cause and genuine demands. “This was the reason why KGMCTA supported the strike. However, we were not aware of the strike on Monday that was not even notified,” she said.
 
