HYDERABAD: Telangana Jana Samithi (TJS), the new political party announced by prof Kodandaram-led  , has been denied permission to hold its public meeting on April 29 to mark the launch by police and other officials. 

 TJS had sought permission to hold the meeting either at   in RR district, NTR Stadium near   or LB Stadium near the city police commissioner's office. However, RR district sports authorities said an annual summer coaching camp will be held at   at that time, and hence, permission on April 29 cannot be given. In case of NTR Stadium, TJS was told that the venue cannot be given for any political meets. Regarding LB Stadium, TJS has not yet received any response from the authorities. 
 
 TJS has also applied for permission with the defence ministry to hold its public meeting at Parade Grounds, and a decision is awaited. 
 
 Earlier, TJAC was denied permission to hold meetings or take rallies, following which it got green signal from the courts on certain conditions. Now, an application was submitted on behalf of TJS to various authorities and the permission denied citing various reasons.
 
 "We have been told that several disgruntled leaders in TRS are looking towards TJS as an alternative. This disgruntlement is because of the TRS government's failure to fulfil its promises due to which youth, farmers and Dalits are frustrated with the KCR government. Another important fact is that the ruling party has been resorting to 'Operation Akarsh' to woo leaders of other parties into TRS as a result of which the existing leaders in TRS are feeling threatened and fearing that they would be sidelined when it comes to giving tickets for polls," a senior TJAC member claimed.
 
 "TRS is practising a 'pick and choose formula'. While permissions are given for religious events and other public gatherings, including political meetings of other parties and organisations, only TJAC and now TJS are being denied the same.   has been given permission to hold its public meeting at LB Nagar for which we are happy, but why deny the constitutionally guaranteed right to hold a meeting to TJS," Kodandaram said.
 
 "The KCR government is scared because we have been coming out with facts and figures based on research. The failures of the TRS government to fulfil its promises are being highlighted with proof by TJAC. The government is feeling threatened and as such denying permission to it," he said.
 
 
