They say   is the mother of all skin (percussion) instruments. Ànd, it looks like youngsters in the city are on a mission to spread awareness about the same and revive interest in the ancient traditional instrument. With a number of workshops being conducted in the city and youngsters coming forward to learn the instrument with gusto, it looks like Parai is not only here to stay, but to also make an impact among Coimbatore youngsters.

 
 Indu Krishna of a private college in the city, who recently attended a parai workshop in the city, says that playing the instrument was a liberating experience. “I had heard the naadan chenda (percussion instrument) back home in Kerala. But, beating the parai was a different experience altogether. It was a great stress-buster and I left liberated.”
 
 Vidiyal Prabhakaran, who conducted the workshop, tells us, “It’s nice to see youngsters coming out to learn Parai. I have been teaching people from all sections of society.” Prabhakaran, who has been playing the parai for the last 16 years, says, “I started learning Parai when I was really young. I first began experimenting with a slate and later, learnt to play the instrument from the scratch. I have taught parai to hundreds of youngsters in the city.”
 
 
 
 Balamurugan P, (member of   that teaches traditional rural dances and   of Tamil Nadu) who specializes in Parai Attam, tells us that it has been an interesting journey for him. “I had decided way back in college that I would do my best to revive folk art and learning parai was a step toward that. My parents were not happy with my decision. They would constantly ask why I was beating the parai. To them, just like many others, parai was an instrument that is played at funerals. They were concerned that I have made a wrong choice in life. I wanted to break that myth.” V Sakthi, another parai expert and founder of Nimirvu Kalaiyagam, says, “In the days of yore, parai was used to make important announcements. It was also used during festivals and other celebrations. Parai in Tamil means to speak and the instrument was just apt for the purpose.”
 
 
 “It was not long ago that parai was only played at funerals by a certain section of the society. But, now, people are willing to have parai performances for ceremonies like Kaathu Kuthu, Seeru and weddings. Parai is gradually being accepted by one and all. Parai is gradually cutting across caste lines. It’s an instrument that brings people together,” says  . Sakthi says that though things are changing, there is still a long way to go. “Even today, a parai artist is not given the respect that other artists get. People think twice before they allow a parai artist inside their homes. This mindset has to change.”
 
 
 
 Vivek G, another parai expert and founder of Ayudham Kalaigalin Sangamam, says that the biggest advantage of learning Parai is that learning other traditional dance forms gets easier. “Once you master parai and paraiattam, it’s easier to learn Oyilattam, Karagattam and other folk art. A parai is usually slung over one shoulder and is held vertically. The parai is played by two sticks- adi kuchi and sundu kuchi. Before you begin to play, the parai has to be heated by holding it close to fire. Once you do that, the heat absorbs the moisture and tightens the skin surface. This produces the loud sound on the instrument. It’s important to follow the procedure before every recital. The parai can be customized according to one’s weight. An average parai weights around 3 kg.”
 
 
 
 V Sakthi has given parai a unique twist by infusing it with dance forms. “I have been teaching Parai-Bharatham for the last few years. In Parai Bharatham, you either play Parai to the jathis of Bharathanatyam or we perform the dance steps to the tunes of Parai. This apart, we also teach parai- Hiphop, Parai western dance, Parai with oyilattam and karagattam to name a few. The idea is to make it appeal to the young audience. This format has been well received by the audiences. I have also been teaching parai online.” Vidiyal Prabhakaran, on the other hand, has been taking Parai to the masses with street plays. “In the days of yore, theru naadagam (street play) was an important means to convey a message. And, the beats of parai lured in people for the same. I am following suit with my street plays where I use parai extensively. Parai is now used to convey socially-relevant messages.”
 
 
