AHMEDABAD/GANDHINAGAR:   Suresh Prabhu was on a   and   on Sunday. He visited campuses of the   (EDII), National Institute of Design (NID) in Gandhinagar, and   (GU).

 Prabhu laid the foundation stone for MSME Research Block and launched ‘Global Entrepreneurship Monitor (GEM) India Report 2016-17’ at EDII. He also launched a book on successful EDII alumni. In his speech, Prabhu said that start-ups must identify gaps in the system and build business models around them.
 
 “Entrepreneurs must focus on the possibility of doing extraordinary things,” said Prabhu at EDII. “Pro-industry policies, numerous funding options, and incubation support are gradually boosting India’s potential to become an entrepreneurial nation.”
 
 At GU, Prabhu launched the university’s startup and innovation policy document. Gujarat education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama was present at the event. Prabhu and Chudasama awarded the GU Startup and Entrepreneurship Council (GUSEC) winners in different categories. Prabhu visited GUSEC and saw a few of the incubated innovations.
 
 Prabhu lauded the effort and said that it is natural that universities should be the incubators of innovation. He gave the example of the Research Triangle of North Carolina where businesses, educational institutes, and the government come together to create a ecosystem for research and innovation.
 
 “Some of the innovations I saw today felt like they were from science fiction. The innovators need to see beyond tomorrow,” said Prabhu, giving the example of the Solar Alliance Summit in Delhi. He said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had the idea of harnessing solar energy since the time he was Gujarat chief minister. He said that Modi believed that such an alliance could promote research in sustainable energy and make it affordable.
 
 Prabhu asked universities to instil the culture of free thinking. “Why do only dropouts become successful entrepreneurs? It’s a challenge for the education system,” he said. “The education system demands that there be uniform norms for passing —everyone has to think the same way.”
 
 
