CHENNAI: Two police inspectors on Tuesday found themselves on the fringes and in obscure posts after a probe confirmed their involvement in separate sex rackets. The officers had even set up legal teams to help run the syndicates, while serving in — perhaps not coincidentally — the   anti-vice squad (AVS).

 
 Inspectors Sam Vincent and M Saravanan earned lakhs of rupees in collusion with pimps during their AVS stint, the departmental probe had found. Police commissioner A K   had ordered the inquiry based on a confidential intelligence report.
 
 The department transferred both officers to the city’s southern periphery, shunting inspector Vincent to the Pallavaram police and Saravanan to the Thoraipakkam police.
 
 The officers, the inquiry revealed, were each closely involved in the operation of massage parlours and other fronts for prostitution, hiring the services of lawyers and using pimps to run twin sex rackets with various arms, one extending across core city areas and the the other in the suburbs.
 
 
 
 Police sources said the departmenthadinitially posted inspector Vincent as a leadofficer in thecity unitof the AVS. “But inspector Saravanan soon upstaged him after he received a posting tothecity unitof theAVCon the recommendation of a state minister,” a source said.“Vincentthen movedoutto thesuburban unitof theAVS.”
 
 The inquiry revealed that the inspectors cultivated contacts and actively helped run prostitution networks in Chennai andon itsoutskirts.
 
 “After receiving the inquiry report, commissioner Viswanathan on Tuesday decided to movetheofficersoutof the antivice squad,” he said. Kotturpuram inspector   and intelligence wing inspector Shanmugavelan have taken their place as AVS inspectors. The department on Tuesday also announced routine transfers of police officers, moving at least 13 other officers. Inspector Padmavathi will take charge as theKodungaiyur crimewing inspector;   has received a posting to the MKB Nagar asinspector (law andorder); inspector Tiripurasundari and inspector Jayabharathi will move to the Central Crime Branch(CCB); andinspector ValarmathijoinstheKotturpuram police(crimewing).
 
 Inspector Murugan was moved to the Foreshore Estate (crime) and inspector Thanga Mangani to the special security unit of the Chennai Police; it transferred inspector Prema to the Ennore police (crime); inspector IdhayaKala totheMuthialpet police (crime); inspector JayarajtotheMarina police(law andorder); andinspector E Saravanan tothecontrol room.
 
 
