Age is  's biggest weapon. Life lessons and tennis losses. The winning shot, the long run, the error in judgement. It's hard-earned. On Thursday, in only her second semifinal appearance at the  , serving for the match at 5-4 against a little-known outsider Elise Mertens, her legs trembled and her nerve shook.

 She had been there before. In the 2011 semifinals against China's  , she was serving for the match at 5-4. Also in the second set, after winning the first at 6-3. Wozniacki dropped serve and lost that match, but gained from the experience.
 
 Against the 22-year-old Australian Open debutant Mertens, the Dane hit a wall. Again. Only this time she knew how to get around it, when to take her leg off the pedal and when to push.
 
 After an hour and 37 minutes, she let out a shout that reverberated through the grounds, sounding her arrival, a 6-3, 7-6 (7-2) win that powered the world No. 2 to her first final at Melbourne Park.
 
 Saturday's title clash will pit firsttimers in the final, Wozniacki against world No. 1  , who heat German   6-3, 4-6, 9-7 in the second semifinal.
 
 Mertens, armed a big serve and a stinging forehand, did well to hang close to Wozniacki even after being broken in the fifth game, forcing her to serve it out. "I was nervous," the 27-year-old, who was cheered on by her fiancé David Lee, said. "I didn't do much wrong for the first three points of the 10th game. I served two good serves, then I had that forehand downthe-line which missed by a couple of millimetres, it was 30-15 instead of 40-love. All of a sudden it turned, but I managed to gather myself and close it out in the end."
 
 A seven-year weight had lifted for the 27-year-old. "It was like when I played in Toronto six times and never won a match," she said. "That first round match that I played finally (Toronto), I was nervous serving it out, even though I was up 6-2, 5-0. When I won, something disappeared. I said, Okay, now I can actually win here. Sometimes you just need to get through those hurdles."
 
 At work in a midnight blue playsuit, Wozniacki -- who was world No. 1 for 67 weeks, and in her third major final -- has played almost 800 matches on the Tour. She has been asked almost as many times about not winning a Grand Slam title.
 
 In a sense, Wozniacki's public break-up some four summers back with golfing superstar Rory Mcllroy, who she was due to marry, showed her who she really was. She wasn't just. Sweet Caroline, superstar girlfriend, retired before her 25th birthday. She was an athlete, battler supreme, a finisher of a marathon. A champion. It is unfair to let an incident as forgettable as the Mcllroy episode to actually define a person, but it sure got Wozniacki on her way.
 
 "I always believed in myself. I had a tough period where I had a few injuries. That was tough mentally. But once I got past that, I knew that if I can stay healthy and work hard, my game is good enough for it," she said.
 
 "I was giving myself time. I think if you don't feel like you can go all the way in tournaments, then to me there's no sense in playing. I want to be competitive, I want to be the best. Always."
 
 Wozniacki's play has grown with her as a person. Her counterpunching style now has a resilience it never had before. Stouter in spirit. She's always had the extra shot, but now she has the weight of the strike, a keener edge. The belief that she can stamp it out.
 
 It has come with age. A wonderful maturity. "As you get older, you get more experienced. You learn, you read the game better. You have to improve to keep being on top of this game because everyone behind you is trying to find a way to beat you. You need to be a step ahead," she said. "I've added a few things to my game. I think at the same time I've kept the base of my game that I've been so successful with."
 
 
 
 
 Halep, dug deep in the semifinals against the 30-year-old Kerber, the 2016 champion, who hadn't lost a match this year coming into the last four clash. The 26-year-old Romanian fought off two match points to close it out on her fourth opportunity after 2 hours and 20 minutes of action.
 
 Halep, through to her first final here, third major title clash, having made the final at Roland Garros in 2014 and '17, and Wozniacki, will play for more than just the title. 
 
