AHMEDABAD: Education minister Bhupendrasinh   has reiterated that schools in the state have the right to fix their provisional fees till the   takes its decisions. The minister blamed so-called parent leaders for misguiding parents.

 Chudasama was speaking in response to a short-notice question asked by Una MLA Punja Vansh, who wanted details of a recent incident where the IDP school in Ghatlodia refused students with pending fees from appearing in their final examination, and also threatened to withhold school leaving certificates in case of pending dues. Vansh said the parents were agitated and there were reports of untoward incidents between parents and managements of the schools. 
 
 To this, the education minister said that the government is keen to ensure that no parents or students suffer for want of payment of fees. He said that during the class X and XII examinations, there were reports that some school managements were not giving hall tickets to students, but timely intervention by the government prevented students from facing any hardship.
 
 Chudasama, however, pointed out that a hue and cry and confusion was being created by the parents who have assumed the role of parent-leaders. These so-called leaders have nothing to do with schools or students, said the minister. 
 
 “I just want to ask the parent-leaders where they were prior to 2017, before the new law was enacted,” asked Chudasama.
 
 Clarifying that the government has been asked by the apex court not to take any coercive action against the schools under the act the minister further said that the SC in its order dated February 1 has said, “In the meantime, the schools shall declare their fee structure on provisional basis and shall not collect more fee than the provisional fee.”
 
 Chudasama said that in order to clarify the situation, an advertisement was also given to ensure that there was no confusion among parents. “We want to clarify that the government will ensure that the schools refund the fees to the parents if the fees ultimately fixed are less than the provisional fees which the schools are charging,” he said.
 
 Leader of opposition, Paresh Dhanani, demanded that the government should file an affidavit and state that the schools should be allowed to collect fees according to the cap decided by the government and can collect excess fees later if the FRC approves higher fees.
 
 The government has put a cap of Rs 15,000 for primary sections, Rs 25000 for secondary sections and Rs 27,000 for higher secondary sections barring science in schools. For the science stream the cap was set at Rs 30,000.
 
 
