In the latest episode of  ,   and   jump off the cliff. They fall into a river which has heavy current and almost get drown.

  is eager to know about the present location of Parul. She asks   about her. Nasabati guesses that Mallicka’s (who disguised herself as Parul’s mother) intention is not good. She gives her wrong information.
 
 Parul and Raghav try hard to save themselves from the current of the river. Finally they reach the bank of the river.
 
 Mallicka follows the direction suggested by Nasabati and arrives at wrong place. She wants to catch Parul and kill her. But she is not able to see anything other than sand dunes. Mallicka starts seeing mirage.
 
 Raghav and Parul look around the place. Suddenly a yellow bird flies towards her. Parul remembers that it was in her bag. The bird informs them that it came out when they jumped off the cliff.
 
 It informs them that the only way to enter the giant’s kingdom is to go through a wall of fire. The giants use the same way. 
 
 Mallicka fells into quick sand. She gets trapped.
 
 Parul asks the bird to take them to the place. They witness the wall of fire. Parul realises that they won’t be able to survive if the try to go inside. Suddenly Jotabhison appears. He suggests that they can’t go inside with the help of their presence of mind. The only way is to take help from a giant itself.
 
 Parul and Raghav are surprised to see him. Parul asks him how he knows about their location. Jotabhison says that he overheard their conversation at Khokkos Puri. He also informs that he is willing to help them.
 
 Mallicka is worried that she will not be able to survive. She tries to save herself but fails.
 
 Jotabhison is determined to help Parul and Raghav. He shares that they should apply a few drop of giant’s blood on their forehead. That’s the only way they can enter the wall of fire without getting burnt.
 
 But Parul is not ready to let Jotabhison hurt. He requests her to allow him.
 
 Finally they agree and Jotabhison cuts his hand. Parul and Raghav apply a few drop of Jotabhison’s blood on their forehead. They thank him for his sacrifice.
 
 Jotabhison replies that he is grateful to them too. Jotabhison goes back to Khokkos Puri and Parul enters in to the giant’s kingdom.
 
 Mallicka requests other giants to help her. They appear and help her out. Mallicka informs them about Parul and Raghav. They too start looking for them.
 
 Parul and Raghav are about to enter the palace at giant’s kingdom. They see the soldiers marching at the front of the entrance. They realise that the kingdom is planning for an upcoming function.
 
 
