CHENNAI: Transport workers unions in Tamil Nadu called off their week-long strike on Thursday night after the Madras high court passed an interim order referring the wage dispute between the state government and the workers of state-owned transport corporations to arbitration.

 A special bench headed by justice S Manikumar appointed former judge of the Madras high court justice E Padmanab-han as the arbitrator.
 
 After the high court’s order,   leader A Soundara- rajan said, “We are ready to accept wage revision as per 2.44 multiplication factor, as proposed by the government, as a temporary relief.”
 
 The state government had on Wednesday allocated ₹750 crore towards benefits to transport department employees who have retired on or before November 30, 2017. Chief minister   had made a suo motu statement in the assembly appealing to the employees to accept the offer and withdraw their protest.
 
 This will come as a major relief to passengers leaving to different parts of the state for the Pongal holidays which start from today. Passengers have complained of a 50-100% surge in ticket prices charged by private omni buses across the state. With transport unions on the job from today, it is expected that most buses will be operated The government has not opened prebooking counters for special Pongal buses but officials said that passengers could get their tickets as and when they board the special buses. More than 27,000 special buses will be operated during the second week of January.
 
 The bench directed the arbitrator to proceed in terms of section 10(A) of the Industrial Disputes Act and file a report within one month.
 
 
 
 
 Earlier in the day, a special bench of Justice S Manikumar and M Govindaraj passed an interim order for arbitration and said, “After considering rival submissions, in the interest of children, students, workers, patients, office goers, traders, small time vendors, poor and middle class people, who represent thelarger section of commuters, wedirect the transport corporation employees to resume work immediately.”
 
 The bench then directed the arbitrator to proceed in terms of section 10(A) of the Industrial Disputes Act and file a report within one monthtothecourt.
 
 When the plea came up for hearing, taking note of the court’s views that public interest should prevail, the unions filed a memo stating that they were willing to resume work immediately, if thecourt nominated an arbitrator for expeditious resolution of the wage dispute. Though the government agreedto refer thedisputeto arbitration, it refused to accept the unions’ demands to release wages for the strike period and drop criminal cases againsttheworkers.
 
 “If all the demands are referredtothe arbitrator, the settlement already arrived at, will become redundant. Public properties have been damaged and therefore, criminal cases have been registered against the alleged perpetrators. Withdrawal of criminal cases should not be a premium for theoffencescommitted. Payment of wages for the strike period should not be a subject for reference,” advocategeneral   said.
 
 Recording the submissions, the bench refused to includetheother demandsof the trade unions, including wagesduring thestrike period and dropping of criminal and departmental actions taken against striking workers saying the unions could notseekto adjudicatewhat is nottheir case.
 
 
