Pune: According to   CEO Zarin Daruwala, the ability to recover   is really low in India compared to a lot of other countries, due to its time-consuming process.

 “In India, only 25.7 cents to a dollar is recovered compared to Japan’s 92.9 cents….This clearly shows where India is in terms of recovery. As a bank, even if I have hard assets and I want to recover, it takes 4-5 years to recover,” she said while speaking on the topic of ‘Banking — Present and Future’ organised by the Pune International Centre.
 
 “The more you delay the recovery, the more haircut banks have to take,” she added.
 
 Daruwala, an ex-ICICI Bank executive, said that in her previous bank a stressed-account customer was willing to settle the loan by offering 85 cents for every 100 owed. However, she said, other lenders in the consortium did not accept this as they thought a 15 cent haircut is too steep.
 
 Subsequently, when she moved to Standard Chartered, she came across the same borrower whose bad loan was unresolved.
 
 “By this time, we could find a new buyer and settle the account, the haircut that banks (in the consortium) had to take was 70 cents,” she said adding, “This (indecision) is the problem even if a bank wants to settle and resolve a stressed asset. This is where there is rapid value erosion.”
 
 She expressed hope that initiatives like   ( ) and the   ( ) will help lenders recover bad loans in a time-bound manner.
 
 “The   has been referring many cases to the NCLT. About 30-40% of the NPAs in the banking system have been referred to the NCLT. While big accounts might find buyers, the smaller accounts might not and if they go for liquidation, then there is likely to be more value erosion,” she said.
 
 Daruwala also said that while new fixed capital formation continues to be low, stalled projects totalling Rs 1.33 lakh crore (mainly in the power sector) remain a worry for banks.
 
 She added that non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) are posing a formidable challenge (especially on technology front) to mainstream banks.
 
 “NBFCs are nimble and are taking away a sizeable chunk of retail credit…if banks do not invest in technology, they will see the market share swinging to NBFCs and private banks,” she added.
 
 
