PATNA: The decision of Union minister Upendra Kushwaha-led Rashtriya Lok Samta Party (RLSP) to form a human chain in the state on Tuesday to spread awareness among people regarding educational reforms and importance of various provisions of Right to Education Act has created ripples in political circles with the RJD claiming on Monday that two constituents of   –   and former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi-led HAM-S – will break away from the alliance and join hands with Lalu Prasad’s party.

 RJD national vice-president   on Monday praised Kushwaha for “taking up a noble cause”. “We would have participated in Kushwaha’s human chain had he not been a part of the NDA,” Raghuvansh said. He claimed HAM-S national president Jitan Ram Manjhi was in talks with RJD and Kushwaha could also join hands with the party.
 
 Raghuvansh said senior JD(U) member and former Speaker of Bihar assembly Uday Narayan Chaudhary met Lalu at Birsa Munda central jail in Ranchi on Monday.
 
 However, both Manjhi and Kushwaha rubbished the claims of Raghuvansh. “Raghuvansh is making such statements because of his joblessness in RJD. We are not going to RJD. Instead, Raghuvansh is coming to us as he has been sidelined by the RJD,” Manjhi said. “There is no rift in NDA. The central and state governments are running smoothly under the leadership of Narendra Modi and Nitish Kumar, respectively,” he added.
 
 Kushwaha said Raghuvansh has developed a habit of daydreaming. “He has probably lost his mental balance. I do not have any intention to hold talks with RJD,” Kushwaha added.
 
 Meanwhile, Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee ( ) president incharge   also questioned the need for RLSP to form the human chain. “Kushwaha is HRD minister in NDA government at the Centre and an ally of Nitish government in the state. It is quite ironical that he is organising the human chain for improvement in education sector. Is he trying to convey a message that the central as well as state governments have failed to improve the education sector?” Quadri asked. 
 
 The RLSP human chain will be organised for 30 minutes from 11.30am at a school in every panchayat on Tuesday. Incidentally, the state government had also organised a human chain on January 21 as part of its campaign against dowry and child marriage.
 
 
