MANALI: Four students of law at Rohtak’s   allegedly printed fake currency notes in Rs 2,000 denomination to buy 2kg of Malana   in Himachal Pradesh’s Kullu district.

 
 Two students — Vikrant, a resident of Haryana and Parvesh, who is from Delhi — have been arrested and the Himachal police brought them to Mandi for interrogation on Monday. They were remanded to police custody for seven days on Tuesday.
 
 However, two of their fellow students and a charas seller are yet to be arrested.
 
 The four students allegedly paid Rs 5.6 lakh on April 14 to a person in Malana village to buy 2kg charas. On April 26,  , a resident of Bhad village in   area of Mandi district tried to deposit Rs 1 lakh in Himachal Gramin Bank at Gohar.
 
 The bank manager informed the police about the man depositing fake currency and a raid was conducted at Lal Singh’s house where police recovered Rs 1.1lakh more in fake notes.
 
 
 
 
 On interrogation, Lal Singh told the Mandi police that he had sold charas to Deva, a resident of Malana village, for Rs 2.1 lakh and that he had no idea that the money paid to him was fake.
 
 The police constituted a special investigation team and arrested Deva from Malana. Deva told the SIT that a group of students from Haryana had paid him Rs 5.6 lakh for 2kg of charas. Investigation revealed that Deva’s friend, identified as Kisha aka Bhoot has gone underground with remaining Rs 3.5 lakh.
 
 “Two of the students have been arrested after we confirmed their involvement in the case as source of fake currency. The car used by them has also been impounded. Two other students are also involved in the crime and will also be arrested soon. All the four students are batch-mates in MDU Rohtak and had printed the fake currency,” Mandi superintendent of police (headquarters) Hitesh Lakhanpal said.
 
 The SIT is searching for Malana resident Kisha who fled with the remaining fake currency.
 
 Majority of Malana residents are illiterate and the law students took advantage of this fact. The charas seller in Malana could not recognize fake currency and sold 2kg charas to them, the police added.
 
 
