NEW DELHI: In a case of  , a 50-year-old man was thrashed by two people outside his shop in west Delhi’s Tilak Nagar on Sunday after he told them not to park their car in front of the shop. Both have been arrested. The man, family members said, is still in hospital. 

 On Sunday night, the police received a call from one Ajit Kaur who said some men were hitting her husband, Harnek Singh, and nobody was helping them. Soon a police team reached the spot and took Singh to Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital.
 
 Kaur told TOI on Wednesday that they had a Delhi Milk Scheme (DMS) shop barely a few kilometres from their house. Around 10.30pm, Kaur was going to the shop when two people came rushing and told her that Singh was being beaten up by some people with hockey sticks. 
 
 “I ran to help him, but he was already lying on the ground but the men were still beating him up. I immediately made a PCR call and informed my family members as well,” she said. 
 
 On gaining conciousness, Singh told Kaur that he had requested the two men to park somewhere else as the shop was still open. However, angered by this, the men got off the car, hurled abuses at him and started thrashing him, Singh added. 
 
 DCP (west) Vijay Kumar said they had registered a case. “He is injured on the neck, but does not appear to have any fracture. If the final report suggests otherwise, we will add more sections,” Kumar said. 
 
 Meanwhile, the police are yet to identify the car involved in Tuesday’s Bhalswa road rage case, in which a businessman-cum-politician was killed. DCP (northwest) Aslam Khan said a team had been formed to identify the accused.
 
 The police said they were taking the transport department’s help. The victim’s nephew could remember the last few numbers of the Ecco car’s numberplate and the records of all such cars are being scanned. The CCTV footage from adjoining areas are also being checked. 
 
 Delhi Congress chief Ajay Maken met the Delhi Police commissioner on Wednesday and demanded a speedy investigation. 
 
 
