IDUKKI:   state president Kummanam Rajasekharan said, on Wednesday, those who are trying to destruct the proposed Neealakurinji sanctuary are ‘terrorists’.

 After the   team’s visit to the proposed Neelakurinji sanctuary at Kottakkamboor, he told media persons that the NDA will hold protests and fight legally to protect the proposed sanctuary.
 
 “The statement by the ministerial committee that there are no Neelakurinji plants in the area was false and was aimed at protecting the land encroachment by Idukki MP Joice George. The government must take back the land encroached by George and his family at Kottakamboor. The forest department should register cases against those who are trying to destroy the Neelakurinji plants in the proposed sanctuary,” said Rajasekharan.
 
 “The state government should conduct a   inquiry into the land encroachments in the proposed sanctuary,” said the BJP leader.
 
 He further said: “The government should take steps to complete the land survey of the proposed sanctuary area. Once it is completed, original settlers should not be evicted from their land.”
 
 The NDA team will conduct a meeting to discuss the future plans about the proposed Kurinji sanctuary. The team will submit a detailed report to the central government about the sanctuary. We will seek urgent intervention from the ministry of environment and forest to make the Kurinji sanctuary a reality, said the NDA leaders.
 
 “The LDF and UDF governments are always trying to sabotage the Neelakurinji sanctury,” alleged Rajasekharan.
 
 The NDA team members visited the land owned by Joice George, block number 58 of Kottakkamboor village, and spotted Neelakuriniji plants in the area. The team also visited block number 62 area of the proposed sanctuary. JRS state chairman C K Janu, JSS state general secretary A N  , NDA co-convener P K Krishnadas, BJP state general secretary A K Naseer, Karshaka Morcha state secretary Jai K John, BJP Idukki district president   and state committee member P A Velukuttan were also in the team.
 
