NEW DELHI:  , the man credited with playing a key role in the rise of boxing in the country in the past two decades, is returning back to his favourite coaching role with the national team. TOI has reliably learnt that the 62-year-old Cuban, who along with former national coach Gurbax Singh Sandhu, shaped the careers of  ,   and   among others, has been recalled by the   ( ) to coach the senior men’s national team, keeping in mind the forthcoming Commonwealth and   and the  

 
 Presently, Fernandez, the only foreign coach to have been conferred with the prestigious Dronacharya Award, is employed with the Punjab Institute of Sports (PIS) in Mohali as a senior coach.
 
 BFI has already forwarded the proposal to the Sports Authority of India (SAI) to appoint Fernandez as one of the two foreign coaches – the other one being for the senior women’s team. It’s been learnt that the SAI has ‘in-principle’ agreed to recruit Fernandez and a contract would soon be offered to him.
 
 While BFI president Ajay Singh remained tight-lipped about the development, saying, “We, at the BFI, are looking at the best talent in coaching”, another senior BFI official confirmed to TOI that Fernandez would again be seen in the Indian corner during competitions “as early as this month”.
 
 “We are calling him back to shore up Indian boxing. Over the years, because of the IABF’s (Indian Amateur Boxing Federation) internal wrangling and its subsequent suspension by the AIBA, the performances of Indian boxers had gone down in the absence of quality championships. Now that things are back on track with the BFI coming into picture, we want him to revive men’s boxing. We all know his credentials,” the official remarked.
 
 Fernandez’s return to Indian boxing would mark his fourth stint with the country’s pugilists, the association dating back to the 90s. Fernandez, who is fondly known as ‘Mr. Cuban’ in the Indian boxing fraternity, had his first stint as a coach from 1990-1994, and later in 1997-2000 and 2004-2014. He had formed a formidable association with Sandhu, who joined the Indian coaching scene in 1992, resulting in the country’s pugilists winning several medals at the CWG, Asian Games and at the Worlds. But their most-prized possession would always remain the bronze medal clinched by Vijender Singh at the Beijing Olympics in 2008.
 
 Meanwhile, talking about another important issue pertaining to increase in quota places in boxing at the Gold Coast CWG, Singh said he was quite hopeful of the Organising Committee (OC) considering India’s request. “This happened before the BFI came into existence. We are talking to the Indian Olympic Association (IOA) to see if we can get more quota places. We are hopeful of getting two-three more quotas,” he said.
 
