NAGPUR: Almost nine years after clearing garbage bins from the city under garbage bin free city,   ( ) is all set to put up bins mainly in market areas across the city. 

 In 2009, the NMC had declared Nagpur a bin free city by appointing Kanak Resources to collect garbage from every household and deliver it to the   dump yard. In order to fix the gaps in the garbage disposal mechanism, the NMC has now decided to install bins at market places.
 
 “The plastic bins, each with a capacity of nearly 200kg, will be mounted on the ground and will have a facility that will enable them to be tilted for the contents to be emptied into a collection vehicle. The NMC will install two bins each in around 250 commercial areas. Each spot will have two separate bins for dry and wet waste,” confirmed health officer (sanitation) Dr  .
 
 Presently, due to traffic and business activities since early morning, it is difficult for sanitary workers to clean the market areas like Mahatma Phule Vegetable Market, Netaji Market and busy roads in these areas. People park vehicles by the roadsides which prevent sanitary workers from sweeping, said Dr Dasarwar.
 
 He added, “By 10pm, even shopkeepers close their establishments. These bins will ensure people have clean environs since morning. Morning walkers used to complain about filth lying around. Now, they will hopefully have no complaint on this count.” 
 
 These bins will be placed phase-wise, he said, adding in the first stage the NMC will install bins in eight notified commercial areas in entire city. 
 
 When asked whether the move will be undoing the city’s no-dustbin policy, Dr Dasarwar said it was only a partial rollback and it was essential to fix the gaps in the garbage disposal mechanism. “Prior to 2009, there were bins all across the city, on every street corner, including residential areas that did not have a door-to-door collection system. We are now reintroducing them only in commercial areas, especially markets — where there is a high volume of floating population and where there have been gaps in the garbage disposal mechanism after bins were removed,” he pointed out.
 
 With a view to ensure segregated dry and wet garbage, the civic body will be installing two bins at these points. On commercial streets like   to Indora Chowk stretch, the NMC will install a couple of bins. 
 
 Actually, this move is another measure to improve city’s ranking in Swachh Bharat Survey. According to Dr Dasarwar, the NMC could not improve its Swachh ranking without the support of citizens. He appealed to shopkeepers and visitors to help the NMC in keeping city’s commercial areas garbage free. 
 
 Civic activist and director of city-based NGO Centre for Sustainable Development (CSD)   said putting up waste collection bins in shopping areas is a welcome move. At the same time, the NMC should also ensure that the bins should not overflow. “If the NMC is investing so much, they should also deploy someone to monitor the bins. The person in charge should ensure no overflow of bins as they attract dogs and stray cattle,” she pointed out.
 
 She also stressed that the NMC should not bring back bins in residential areas. Instead, they should improve its door-to-door collection as many areas lack daily collection of garbage and it leads to dumping of garbage either in roadside or on open plots, she pointed out. 
 
 
