HYDERABAD: Crying foul over the proposed steep increase in the tax on transport vehicles, truck operators in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh are up in arms. The budget has proposed change in the tax structure for transport vehicles, which according to the truck operators, will result in huge losses to the sector leaving lakhs of dependants jobless.

 Section 44 AE of the Finance bill, 2018, has proposed a higher tax based on the Gross Vehicle Weight (GVW) as against the transporting weight that is in place right now. As a result, all heavy vehicles weighing over 12,000 kg have to pay tax at the rate of ₹1000 per tonne.
 
 “This will be more than double the current tax levied on transport vehicles. At present, we are paying on the basis of the weight of the goods that is being transported. Once the amendment to the act becomes a reality, truck operators with a fleet of 10 vehicles will have to pay an income tax of ₹8,25,000 per annum. The proposal will kill the transport sector which is already reeling under a severe crisis due to increase in the diesel prices,” YV  , general secretary of AP Lorry Owners Association, told STOI.
 
 Aghast over the proposed amendment, more than 45,000 truck operators from both Telangana and Andhra Pradesh have written to the   president   to take up the matter with finance minister   and ask him to withdraw the amendment. Thousands of truck owners are mulling going on strike against the proposed hike if the Centre does not rethink its decision.
 
 “The price of diesel was increased by ₹11 in three months. Apart from this, we have to pay road cess and toll taxes. Road cess should be passed on to the public and toll fee must be removed. Otherwise, this sector will not survive,” Nukala Bhaskar Reddy, president,  , told STOI.
 
 The proposed slab system has categorised 10 tyres, 12 tyres, 14 tyres and more in different income tax slabs by which the higher capacity trucks will have to cough up ₹20.41 lakh per annum as tax. If the amendment move is not dropped, many operators have decided to abandon plying high capacity vehicles in order to cut costs.
 
 
