GHAZIABAD: The decomposed body of a four-year-old boy who went missing 18 months ago was found on Sunday inside a wooden crate on the roof of their next door neighbour’s first-floor ‘barsati’, in the same clothes he was last seen wearing on December 1, 2016.

 
  
  
 
 The crate lay amid discarded household scrap — an old water cooler and another crate and sundry other items — and Zaid’s body might have not been found for much longer had his elder brother Junaid not climbed to the roof on Sunday to look for a cricket bat.
 
 Zaid’s family lives in a single-storey house in Ghaziabad’s Samshad Garden that shares its left wall with the house of Mobin, a factory worker in Mandoli. Both houses have a single-room ‘barsati’ each on the terrace, which are conjoined to each other but separated by a brick wall. There are no stairs to access the roofs of the “barsatis”.
 
 Junaid (9) had opened the lid of the crate hoping to find the bat but scampered back, frightened. He told his father Nazar he had seen a “scary doll” in the crate. Nazar initially ignored him but later sent his nephew to fetch the “doll”. The realization that this was little Zaid dawned on them when they noticed the clothes — blue school jersey and green denims. It was what he was wearing when they last saw him.
 
 Police said the body seemed to be “several months” old. They suspect cops odour emanating from a drain and a garbage dump behind the houses could have masked the stench from the decayed body. A neighbour said the crate in which Zaid’s body was found had been thrown on the roof from the first-floor boundary wall several years ago.
 
 The only lead the police have in the case is two suspects who they had arrested last December for making ransom calls to the family. The duo had claimed they did not kidnap the boy but had heard he was missing and saw it as an opportunity to make quick money. They are now out on bail. Police said they would determine their next course of action after Zaid’s autopsy report. 
 
 Both families living in the adjoining houses said they had never let out the “barsatis” to anyone, and that the rooms were used by family members only during winters. “After around two hours since he went missing in December 2016, we made an announcement from the local mosque and appealed to people to look for him. We made such announcements in other lanes too. When we failed to find him, we approached the police,” Zaid’s uncle, Umar (40), said.
 
 Zaid’s parents had plastered posters with the boy’s picture on walls of the city and made appeals on social media to look for him. Four-year-old Zaid was the fourth of five siblings (three boys and two girls). Nazar (38) runs a hair-cutting saloon while his wife Nazreen (35) is a homemaker.
 
 On December 12 that year, another of Zaid’s uncles received a ransom call on his phone. The caller claimed to have kidnapped Zaid. “The caller asked for Rs 8 lakh as ransom. I handed over the phone to Zaid’s father to deal with the caller over the next few days,” Tariqat, the uncle, said.
 
 Zaid’s family said they had received two dozen calls from the same number over the next four days and informed police. The caller had asked Nazar to leave a bag with the cash at   railway station in Haryana on December 17 in exchange for his son.
 
 Policemen in plainclothes had accompanied Nazar to the railway station. “I had arranged for the cash, which included demonetised notes. A man came to collect the bag, but he did not have Zaid with him. He was arrested from there,” Nazar said.
 
 The arrested man, Aftab, was later found to be a daily-wage labourer who had been hired for Rs 2,000 to pick up the bag from the station. On the basis of information received from him, the main suspect, Irfan, was arrested a few days later. “Both lived in the same locality and had heard about the missing boy. They confessed to making the ransom calls but claimed to have nothing to do with the kidnapping. They just wanted to milk the situation and make quick money,” DSP Rakesh Kumar Mishra said. Aftab and Irfan are currently out on bail. “The police continued with the investigation. We kept looking for the boy,” Mishra said.
 
 Zaid’s parents said they had spoken to the two who made the ransom calls and pleaded with them to share any information they had on the boy. “Once, I was told that somebody like Zaid had been seen in Allahabad and Lucknow. I went to both cities and informed police stations there,” Nazar said.
 
