 is the 8th book by  . It’s a political thriller about a woman who was abducted for a flimsy reason, used and then left to die. The novel is about how she wreaks her vengeance. The author had this tale in mind early in her writing career but then she was focussing on her other series. However, the 2012 Nirbhaya incident inspired her to take it up again. She explained that though the story is, “bollywoodish” and “racy”, it has a good intent behind and hence she wanted the release of this book to have a panel discussion about issues such as rape and women safety in India.

 Initially, on the panel were Dr.  , Senior Consultant Neuro-Psychiatrist and Dr. Tripti Sharan, ObGyn and writer. Both doctors have worked with rape victims and Dr. Chugh has even worked with the perpetrators of such crimes. Dr. Sharan also shared details of the physical harm wreaked on the victims and how, before Nirbhaya, the courts would make it so hard for the doctors who were a part of the investigation. She had to phrase her reports carefully for the slightest thing like, "hymen intact" and "no injuries", could be used against the victim in court. However, she assured us that things had changed since the Nirbhaya case and it is easier to get justice now.
 
 Dr Chugh gave us an insight into the mind of the perpetrator of such crimes. Most perpetrators have had some abuse or maybe similar treatment in their childhood which affects them so strongly that their "wiring" gets affected and it manifests in these ways. He believes the Government is not to be blamed, society is. He explained how in a family of four if the father beats the mother and she suffers silently, it becomes a message for children to treat their partners in future. The son believes that women are supposed to be treated like that and the daughter learns to accept such treatment silently.
 
 The second panel had  , a Clinical psychologist who is also a psychosocial expert with special focus on bleeding disorders community and other chronic disorders and has worked with many NGOs. Also H.G.S. Dhaliwal, who worked with Delhi police in solving the Dhaula Kuan rape case. He told everyone about the initiatives by police to make India and Delhi in particular safe for women. He told us about the various active helplines and the new app. He gave a policeman’s perspective on how such incidents of physical abuse are reported and handled while Richa Mohan, who has worked with the victims gave us an insight into their needs.
 
 The talks were eye opening on the way a rape case is treated both before and after the Nirbhaya case. The various perspectives, from the physical, psychological to legal angle provided a wholesome look at the topic. It was an educational book launch that widened perspectives before you even opened the book!
 
 The book launch was hosted by SheThePeopleTV at SodaBottleOpenerWala in Khan Market. With the cosy set up, clever crowd and the thought provoking talks the event was truly unique.
 
