NEW DELHI: Faced with heavy retaliatory fire by   (BSF), which pounded Pakistani posts over the last three days, Pakistan Rangers on Sunday "pleaded" for   along the international border. 

 
  In a statement, BSF said that Pak Rangers called up Jammu BSF formation and beseeched them to stop the heavy artillery and precision firing, which was in retaliation to unprovoked shelling and firing from across the border by Pakistani forces. A Pak Rangers' trooper was also shot down by BSF men during the retaliatory firing. BSF also released a 19-second thermal-imagery footage showing destruction of a Pakistani picket across the border. "For the last three days, the precision fire of BSF troopers on Pakistani firing locations inflicted heavy losses and on Saturday, this firing found their mark with one of the rangers in chicken neck area," a BSF spokesperson said. 
 
 BSF had lost two of its jawans in this latest round of unprovoked firing from across the border in Jammu. Four civilians were also killed and few injured in the border villages. The firing from Pakistani side increased ahead of Prime Minister 
  on Saturday.
 
 Jammu and Kashmir has witnessed a spurt in Pakistani shelling and firing along the IB and Line of Control (LoC) this year. Over 700 incidents of firing and shelling have been reported, which left 38 people including 18 security personnel dead and scores injured.
 
 It is not the first time that BSF has used all its firepower to bring Pakistani forces on its knees. Earlier when Pak forces violated the ceasefire in January this year and killed several civilians on the western border, BSF fired over 9,000 rounds of mortar shells inflicting heavy damage on the Pakistani side. 
 
 BSF has been using long range mortar shells - also called 8mm area weapons- which can hit targets within the range of 5-6 km; short range mortar shells (51mm mortar shells) which can hit targets at 900 meters; and small arms like MMG, LMG, rifles for retaliating to Pakistani shelling and firing.
 
 Officials said the assault on Pak Rangers will continue till they stop targeting Indian personnel or shelling bordering villages. Home minister Rajnath Singh has given a free hand to the BSF to use maximum fire-power against Pak Rangers and Pak army in case of unprovoked firing from the other side.
 
 
