CHANDIGARH: Chandigarh woman Jaspreet Kaur, who was booked in December 2017 for allegedly assaulting her five-year-old stepdaughter and putting her in a gunny bag, could face trial in court on charges of ‘voluntarily causing hurt’ and ‘attempt to commit culpable homicide’.

  submitted the chargesheet against Kaur in the court of judicial magistrate first class (JMIC) Jaspreet Singh on Wednesday. Police have, in their 235-page chargesheet, also recommended that Kaur be tried under Section 75 of the   Justice (JJ) Act. The harshest charge in the chargesheet, attempt to commit culpable homicide (Section 308 of the Indian Penal Code), was added on directions of the court.
 
 If she is found guilty of voluntarily causing hurt, Kaur could face up to a year in jail. The prison term, if she is convicted of attempt to commit culpable homicide, could be up to three years. The Times of India had reported Kaur’s alleged assault, after it received a video of her in the act and contacted the family of the girl. The video was made by the victim’s elder brother. She was booked on December 3 and arrested from a relative’s house in Sector 27 on December 7.
 
 Twenty-five witnesses have been named in the chargesheet. They include head constable  , sub-inspectors   and Parmod Kumar, Child Welfare Comittee chairperson Sangita Vardhan, and   of GMCH, Sector 32. The next hearing of the case is on February 1. 
 
 As per the chargesheet, the couple was living at Sector 29, when Kaur’s “cruelty” was recorded on a cellphone. In the video clip, Kaur is seen assaulting the girl after putting her in a jute bag and banging her on the floor repeatedly.
 
 The FIR against Kaur was registered after taking legal opinion. The injured stepdaughter also narrated her ordeal to a child helpline counsellor. The father had then approached the Child Welfare Committee, Sector 19. The Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights (CCPCR) too had summoned the stepmother, her husband, and the SHO concerned.
 
 Manmohan Singh, the girl’s father, had earlier claimed that his son made the video clip and handed it to him. He was taken aback to see the cruelty of his second wife towards his daughter from his first wife. His first wife passed away two-and-a-half years ago and Manmohan married Kaur in 2016. He had filed a police complaint, seeking action against Kaur. While Singh has two children from his first wife, Kaur, a divorcee prior to marrying Singh, has a daughter from her first marriage.
 
 
