MUMBAI: Lalbaug resident  's death in the MRI suite at   on Saturday night has had one more unfortunate fallout: The 30-odd scans done here every day have stopped for the time being.

 The MRI suite has been locked since the accident. “Moreover, the cylinder is still stuck in the machine,” said a doctor. Engineers from the machine's manufacturer will begin work on Tuesday to set it right. There also is the matter of police clearances. For thousands of patients who visit various public hospitals in the city, the nonfunctional Nair MRI machine means a longer waiting period for a scan. Patients at the outpatient department of the BMC-run  , Parel, have to, on average, wait for three to four months for a scan. On Monday, some patients got scan dates for July-August.
 
 Civic-run hospitals offer an MRI scan at Rs 2,500—almost half the rate at private hospitals and diagnostic centres. An underprivileged patient has little option but to wait, said a social worker who helps the poor with the admission process at public hospitals.
 
 The Nair incident has also led to a debate within the medical fraternity. A senior civic doctor claimed that there are no written standard operating procedures (SOPs) for radiology methods in BMC-run hospitals. “It's time public hospitals be placed in the ambit of accreditation,” the doctor said.
 
 Senior civic doctors played down the effect of the closure of Nair Hospital's MRI machine. “It is possible to use CT scan instead of MRI in certain cases,” said Dr  , head of KEM Hospital's radiology department. Another doctor said the BMC has increased its MRI centres, with Nair patients being directed to KEM, Sion and Cooper Hospitals. Given the nature of MRI scans, each takes at least 20 minutes. “No good centre can do more than 30 scans a day,” said Dr Deshmukh. For patients admitted in hospitals, MRI and CT machines work for 24 hours.
 
 Meanwhile, opposition leader in the BMC Ravi   has written to the civic chief demanding that strict action be taken against those whose negligence led to the accident. He said a standard operating procedure (SOP) be laid out on the role and responsibilities of staff at MRI and CT scan rooms in hospitals.
 
