JAIPUR: Aspiring politician,  , of Jaipur has brought laurels to the state by emerging topper in CLAT-2018 result announced on Thursday. He scored 159/200 marks. Inspired by lawyers turned political leaders-former South African president Nelson Mandela and former US president Barack Obama, Garg's long-term goal is to uphold the ethos of the constitution by strengthening its core values freedom of speech, secularism and equality. 

 
 "A politician cannot be successful unless he has strong understanding of law. I feel pity on a section of spineless politicians of this age who cannot raise their voice for marginalised and minorities," said Garg. What worries him is the rising lawlessness, intolerance, lynching culture or mobocracy which he sees as the biggest threat to the sovereignty of our country. "It can be countered through a strong legal and political system which can be attained through legal awareness," said Garg.
 
 A student of  's Senior Secondary School, Jaipur, Garg is also a debater who is known for his views on every subject-religion, politics, culture and social structure. He feels that legal studies must be introduced in class XI. The aim is to build a temperament for jurisprudence while exposing students to the fundamental rights and duties enshrined in the constitution.
 
 Counting the ill-effects of legal bankruptcy in the society, he called a mockery of justice that a former drug addict and a convict in arms case Bollywood actor Sanjay Dutt's life sketch is being glorified through the movie 'Sanju'. "Strange that movie trailer is going viral on the net and being praised by everyone. Another upsetting incident is brazen support to actor Salman Khan after his conviction, rather than supporting Bishnoi community for fighting a legal battle from the last 20 years," said Garg. 
 
 Commenting on how he had overcome stress during exams by playing sports, Garg says that physical benefits of playing sports is known to the world but the skills like mental toughness, fast decision making and handling pressure makes you a real fighter. "I have realised the skills learnt from playing sports while appearing for the   exam of two hours. The exam was marred by technical glitches. I have seen students around me frightened, crying and crumbling while appearing in the exam. Even in my case, my screen shut down but I maintained my cool till it was restored and I gave my best shot," said Garg.
 
 Eyeing to study law from National Law University, Bangalore, his role model is his father, Arun Garg, who is a Rajasthan Administrative Services (RAS) officer, currently posted as the CEO of zila parishad in Ajmer. "My father is in a transferable job. I have inherited how he adapts himself to the demands of his position: dealing with academicians, teachers, municipal counsellors or villagers," said Garg. 
 
 
