NAGPUR: State-level open  , organized by the   in association with  , will be held here on January 20.

 The annual cross-country meet will be held under the auspices of   and Nagpur District Athletics Association and will begin from Mate Chowk at 7 am on Saturday.
 
 Addressing a press conference here on Saturday, organizer of the run and deputy chairman of NMC sports committee   said the race will be conducted in various categories including state-level half marathon for men and women (21.097-km), district-level race for U-18 boys and girls (6-km) and U-14 boys and girls (3-km).
 
 “Around 5,000 athletes from across the state are expected to participate in the race. The total prize money for the meet is Rs 2.51 lakh and first 15 finishers in each section will get cash prizes,” said Tabhane.
 
 The winners in men’s and women’s will get Rs 25,000, while the runners-up will pocket Rs 20,000. The third-place runner will receive Rs 10,000. The winner of district-level U-18 races will get Rs 5,000. In the U-14 setion, the first three finishers will get Rs 3,000, Rs 2,000 and Rs 1,000, resepctively.
 
 Tabhane said guardian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule will flag off the race at 7 am. Vice-chancellor of Raisoni University Rajan Welukar, mayor Nanda Jichkar, MLA Dr Milind Mane, NMC sports committee chairman Nagesh Sahare, MD of Mahametro Brijesh Dixit and NDAA president LR Malviya will also grace the occasion.
 
 The prize distribution programme will be held at the same venue at 9 am. Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, Union minister Nitin Gadkari, general secretary of Maharashtra Athletics Association Pralhad Sawant, NDAA lifetime president Baban Taywade, SJAN president Kishor Bagde and former Indian cricketer Prashant Vaidya will be the guests.
 
 Entry closes on January 18 and the entry forms are available at Surajya daud office at Gopal Nagar, Aai Kusum Sahare Foundation office Reshimbagh, Ravindra Tong at Reshimbagh ground, Samir Mate at SBCT College ground, Ramchandra Wani at Mahatma Gandhi English Medium HS Hingna, Sunil Kapgate at University ground and Aruna Gandhe at Divisional Sports Complex.
 
 Nagesh Sahare, NDAA secretry Sharad Suryavanshi, Gurudeo Nagrale, Sanjay Chaudhari and Pankaj Mahajan were also present at the press conference.
 
 
