Jalandhar: Five years after the police gave him a clean chit after he was accused by Surjit Mainka, from Chooharwali village who was killed in Mosul, of defrauding him to the tune of Rs 2.65 lakh with the promise of sending him to Afghanistan, a Jalandhar resident returned Rs 50,000 to his family as first instalment on Wednesday evening. Remains of Surjit were cremated on Tuesday,

 Jalandhar (rural) police said a compromise was struck between Mainka’s family and the person and the remaining Rs 1.5 lakh would be returned on May 11. In 2013, the same person had sued Mainka for defamation after he secured a clean chit from the police and claimed that he did not even know him.
 
 His family members on Tuesday alleged that Surjit was a victim of the fraud by the person named in his complaint. They alleged after he failed to get the money back as his complaint to the police could not yield any result, he was instead sent to Iraq after telling him that he would be taken to Kuwait.
 
 “We had summoned the fellow and he claimed that he was only acquainted with a travel agent named Rajan and was not involved in sending Surjit to any place. However, he agreed to pay Rs 2 lakh to his family and latter also agreed to settle for that,” said Adampur deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Gurwinder Singh to whom Jalandhar (rural) senior superintendent of police (SSP) Gurpreet Singh Bhullar had marked a fresh complaint given to him on Tuesday. 
 
 The compromise exposed the probe of anti-human trafficking cell of Jalandhar (rural) police, which had claimed that there was no evidence that the person named by Surjit had taken any money from him.
 
 The inquiry report prepared by the anti-human trafficking cell on February 18, 2013, copy of which is available with TOI, had concluded that it could not be proved that money was paid to the person named in the complaint. With the clean chit in hand, the ‘travel agent’ named by Surjit in his complaint sued him for defamation. His relative Vijay Kumar had told that he was made to compromise and then after sometime after taking Rs 35,000 more he was sent to Iraq.
 
 His wife Suha Rani had to sell out the share of the house Surjit owned but even then the complete loan could not be paid. The family told that the principal amount of the loan was still pending.
 
 
