NEW DELHI: Fugitive diamantaire   is learnt to have fled from Hong Kong to US via London in February itself when investigation agencies were arresting his company executives and attaching his properties in India.

 
 A government investigation has revealed that Nirav, wanted in Rs 13,578 crore   fraud, after fleeing from Hong Kong in February, stayed in London for a month before finally travelling to New York.
 
 TOI accessed an official report which details Nirav's run from the law, his family tree and companies used by him in Hong Kong to launder the money. It states that after fleeing from Mumbai on January 1, Nirav went directly to UAE but Indian agencies chased him there and finding it difficult to stay there, he left for Hong Kong on February 2, two days after CBI registered its first FIR against him, wife Ami Modi, his brother Neeshal Modi, his uncle   and his firms — Diamond R US, Solar Exports and Stellar Diamonds.
 
 In Hong Kong, the government report states, he attempted to make arrangements for a longer stay but tough laws there forced him to leave the city in mid-February. On February 14, Nirav Modi left Hong Kong for London, where he reached the next day.
 
 The fugitive businessman lived in an apartment in the vicinity of Four Seasons Hotel and Bond Street Metro Station in London for almost a month. Sometime in the third week of March, he left London for New York. It is suspected that he might have used his Belgian passport for travel since his Indian passport was revoked by the authorities.
 
 He has been regularly spotted by friends and corporates in and around New York since then. Indian government and agencies have traced Modi around Loews Regency, 540 Park Avenue, 61 Street, New York City (USA), which is located near Times Square and Broadway Street.
 
 In Hong Kong, where Indian government earlier believed he was hiding since January, Nirav owns three jewellery stores. The purpose of his stay in Hong Kong, investigations have revealed, was to use his three companies Sunshine Gems Limited, Sino Traders Limited and Auragem Company Limited, for laundering the money he illegally took from Indian banks.
 
 The sources have provided information to the government about these three companies and a fourth company – CBEST Solutions Limited, which worked as the company secretary to Sunshine Gems and Sino Traders.
 
 
