That Diego   is the greatest footballer is not something one knows the way we get to know that the world is round. One knows that Diego Maradona is the greatest footballer because we see him being just that. Not just for those who followed the Olimpico’s, the Cuahtémoc’s, the Jalisco’s and the Azteca’s midday shadows on the field being overshadowed by Maradona’s pirouettes, dummies and bull runs over seven games in June 1986. But also for everyone who cares to see those games on YouTube, whether in flashes or full features, decades after The Mexico Incidents.

 
 
 
 
 
 In the middle of all the theological quarrels about who is greater — Messi or Ronaldo? Maradona or Messi?   or Maradona? — Maradona’s place in the angelic hierarchy remains supreme. He is, on and off the field, diabolical in the same way as Lucifer, the Shining One. For millions of football lovers, he signifies not just extraordinary skills, but a footballing genius that is Byronically ‘mad, bad and dangerous’, a passion play on display that individual stretches of footballing moments can only capture like messages in bottles. The reason for his frozen divinity, his popularity and — there is no other word for it — love towards him is greater than the sum of his footballing genius.
 
 My World Cup 86 Ladybird ‘record book’ marks the Argentina-Bulgaria match on June 10, 1986, in Mexico City’s Olimpico Stadium clinically in two blank boxes: 2 and 0. But it was the second goal — scored by Jorge Burruchaga from a Maradona cross, after the first one off a Jorge Valdano header — that marked the beginning of a beautiful friendship etched by a comet on a football field.
 
 On our blue-filtered black-and-white TV in a sweltering Kolkata 2 o’clock night, I saw this man, looking quite like Rishi Kapoor but with Michelangelosculpted legs, move deep left field after dodging the Bulgarian No. 6 with an outside roll, and then hugging the touchline — “like I’m standing on the edge of a cliff” — and cross the ball with a left foot flick into the centre where Burruchaga heads it in.
 
 Similar phenomena were recorded, like some pandemic, for millions over seven games of that Mexico World Cup. It was, however, not just the beauty of his play — a brutal beauty that doesn’t defy the law of physics but actually embraces them — that made Maradona stand apart, but also his swagger, the attitude, the non-choreographed motor that he made transparent for all to see.
 
 And that quater-final against England at the Azteca on Sunday June 22, 1986 saw millions of noveau-international football watching Indians replace   with Argentina, the almost mythological Pele with flesh and blood and ball Maradona. The first goal — delightfully then, and even more delightfully now — was a giant collective middle finger attached to the hand of Diego that the neutral footballing world took glorious pleasure in showing England (Margaret Thatcher’s England that had gone to war only four years before against   over the island of Malvinas/Falklands).
 
 The second one, well, burnt through four England players and a 60-yard distance in 10 seconds like a red coal carpet, a mad bull that’s lost its way. Every footballing wet dream was and is still dreamt via that Maradona slalom. That settled the miracle on which to build the temple on.
 
 It was only over the years that most of us got to know more about Maradona — his glorious football at Napoli, his drugs, his tears, his friendship with Fidel Castro, his women. But unlike any other footballer, what millions find special about him is his wonderful wickedness, his fallibility, his heavenly scripted ra gs-to-riches-to-hell-and-back-torock’n’roll-Hall-of-Fame jour ney.
 
 Like the handball goal against England, these are exactly the same qualities that many would find off putting, silly, churlishly extravagant, despicable even. But whether he’s shooting his mouth off against the Guardians of the Galaxy in Fifa, or opening jewellery stores at Kannur and Kuala Lumpur, chomping on premium Havanas and living the lavish life in Dubai while sporting a Che tattoo, it is exactly this straying off from the script that makes him the object — a la Bob ‘I’ll Do Whatever I Want Including Appearing in Lingerie Ads’ Dylan — of very human adoration.
 
 But without every admirer and worshipper necessarily being aware of it, what draws them into Maradona — the Diego Maradona of 1986 — is what the man himself describes as bronca, the Argentinian Spanish word signifying anger, revenge, hatred, discontent... It is bronca which drove him to footballing fury.
 
 And with the penumbra of his other avatars — that of the 1990 World Cup when the world committed footballing jauhar with him, and that of the 1994 tournament when his total field play was of 173 minutes — neatly airbrushed away, it is this bronca that millions still recognise, taste, share, and celebrate with Diego Maradona, who exalted sits, by merit rais’d, to that bad eminence. Because of him, the Devil, unfallen angel in this case, will always wear albiceleste.
 
 
