HYDERABAD: Some ‘black sheep’ in the police may have vested interests in not wiping out the Maoist problem in the country. This observation comes from retired IPS officer  , known as the father of police reforms in the country who had handled several terror challenges effectively when in service.

 “There are many reasons why despite all efforts being made, India has not been able to completely get rid of the Maoist trouble and prevent violence,” Singh told TOIin a telephonic interview from Noida on Wednesday.
 
 Singh will be in the city on January 18, where he will speak about “The   in India”, a book he had authored some years ago. The programme is being organised by the Telangana State Police Academy in which former CBI director   will also be present.
 
 Prakash Singh was the DGP of Uttar Pradesh and   and also headed the   (BSF). He had also investigated the October 1, 2003 incident, in which then CM of united AP Chandrababu Naidu was targeted by Maoists in Chittoor. In 2016, his services were also utilised by the Harayana government for investigating the Jat reservation agitation in which 30 people had lost their lives.
 
 Following a request from Niti Aayog a few months ago, the 82-year-old Singh submitted a set of recommendations on how to make the police more effective. “Police should be both effective and accountable,” he said.
 
 Singh has authored eight books so far. The last one was published in 2014 titled “Irregular warfare: The Maoist challenge to India’s Internal Security”.
 
 “The dependence on central paramilitary forces to curb Maoist violence is not right. The local police should handle the problem with local intelligence inputs, strategy and required weapons,” he said. According to a home ministry report, there had been 12,000 casualties due to Maoist insurgency of which 2,700 were security personnel.
 
 Asked as to why the problem still persisted in the country, he said it could be due to lack of will even among the police. He said there was enough scope to think that they themselves lacked the conviction to tackle the problem because of their personal interests. “We need good policing in the country. We need police officers who are dedicated and committed. Greyhounds had shown their mettle in handling Maoist issue in undivided AP,” he added.
 
