PATNA: With only three more days to go for filing nomination papers for the 58 Rajya Sabha seats, including six from Bihar, the race for   ticket hots up. As the party is still to finalize its candidate from Bihar, the names of senior Congress man and IPL chairman Rajeev Shukla, former Lok Sabha Speaker Meira Kumar, party general secretary  , Congress legislature party leader Sadanand Singh and former MPs Nikhil Kumar and   are doing the rounds.

 March 12 is the last date for filing nomination papers and the election is scheduled for March 23.
 
 A senior Congress functionary accepted that Shukla’s name was doing the rounds but party leaders having roots in Bihar were giving him tough competition. Sources said most Congress leaders wanted someone from Bihar as their candidate but they left it to the party president Rahul Gandhi to take the final call.
 
 Bihar Congress acting president Kaukab Quadri said he met Rahul on Tuesday and discussed the Rajya Sabha election and byelections in Bihar and their relation with ally RJD. Quadri, however, denied suggesting any name for the Rajya Sabha candidate.
 
 He also denied any chance of cross-voting in his party as is expected after former state Congress president   recently joined JD(U) led by CM Nitish Kumar. “We are all intact. We have the support of RJD along with HAM(S) and CPI,” he said. 
 
 Congress has 27 MLAs in the 243-member Bihar assembly, which has an effective strength of 240 members as far as voting for the Rajya Sabha candidates is concerned. A candidate will require 35 MLAs to win one Rajya Sabha seat. The RJD has 79 MLAs, JD(U) 70, BJP 52, CPI((ML) 3, LJP and RLSP two each, Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) one, apart from four Independents. Since Congress is falling short of eight votes, RJD’s nine extra votes can ensure it one seat.
 
 If everything goes as per plan, Congress will send its one member to the   after 16 years. Earlier, R K Dhawan was elected as Congress’s Rajya Sabha member from Bihar.
 
 
