While the student unions like the Congress-backed NSUI and BJP-backed ABVP have welcomed the decision of the state government to revive student elections in Punjab institutions, the Left-leaning student organizations have not shown as much enthusiasm.

 The student bodies claim that since the political parties have their student wings, they divide youths along party lines and in such a scenario, elections have become an expensive affair, well-beyond the reach of poor students.
 
 Punjab student union state president   of Faridkot said, “We would welcome elections only if these are held like the ones in JNU, and money and muscle power should not be used. These should not become extension of mainstream political parties”.
 
  activist and former leader of PSU ( )   from Moga said, “We denounce holding of elections in Punjab universities as these will take students towards vertical factionalism. It is not that era when student leaders used to turn into big leaders without spending much. Elections will spoil the atmosphere of the universities”.
 
  president Amandeep Singh said, “We welcome the move of the state government to revive the students elections in the university but these elections should be held in a democratic way as is held in  . The spirit should be democratic so that fair elections can take place. This will help the youth become politically mindful and there will be no dearth of leaders like it is in the present scenario.
 
 Meanwhile, NSUI leader Gurmukh Singh from Bathinda said the announcement of elections to student councils was a welcome step as it would create leaders of future and streamline politics in the state.
 
 This was a much-awaited announcement from the government and has come as a breather for the students. The government has given liberty to students to gather on a platform and democratically elect its president and other office-bearers so that issues concerning students, including fee structure, placement and uniformity in education system, could be taken up in an organized manner through their recognized body, said Gautam Majitha, former state coordinator, NSUI.
 
 
