There is a difference between hunger and craving. Hunger is when the want to eat is truly physical. It follows a set pattern and is often satisfied by eating wholesome foods. Cravings, on the other hand, arise anytime and cannot be explained. When a person experiences ‘craving’, it’s mostly for foods that are laden with sugar, salt, trans-fat, caffeine or alcohol, because they instantly hit the spot and satisfy the craving. Why does a craving for junk food arise in the first place? A couple of reasons: 

 
 
 Our gut harbours both good and bad gut bacteria. Health lies in maintaining the right ratio between the two. Any imbalances in the ratio due to faulty lifestyle, excessive use of medications, stress, can cause the bad bacteria to outnumber the good bacteria. Since the bad bacteria demands things like sugar, toxins, inflammation for its survival, this is exactly what it makes the human body crave for. If we fail to fuel these bad bacteria by avoiding junk, they die. 
 
 So is the case with Candida albicans, a nasty yeast that lives within 85% of the human population. If your body has an abundance of Candida, they constantly require being fed, usually preferring sugar to thrive. 
 
 
 
 Junk eating happens when we are emotionally disturbed and most food companies take advantage of this to manufacture the so-called “comfort foods”. When we are stressed, our serotonin (happy hormone) levels hit rock bottom and as humans we cannot stay in discomfort for long, hence we resort to food as the quickest way to seek comfort. These are mostly foods that tend to be highest in sugar, salt and fat content because they offer the quickest fix and elevate our mood. Unfortunately this high is followed by a quicker crash leaving us unhappier and irritable. 
 
 
 
 Foods rich in sugar (artificial sweeteners included) and salt act as in addiction. Most foods that are rich in sugar and salt tend to lack nutritional value, thus are termed as “empty calories”. When we constantly feed our body these foods, it robs us of energy and nutrients that our trillion of cells are screaming for. End result? Cravings. The best way to handle such cravings is to create a body that doesn’t crave. Eliminate refined flour, refined sugar, refined salt and everything that contains it for at least 7-10 days and you will notice how cravings automatically stop. 
 
 
 
 Many of us do not drink the right amount of water every day, as a result of which we often confuse the feeling of “thirst” with “hunger”. Whenever you feel the onset of a craving, step back and drink some water. If the craving fades away, then you are surely dehydrated. 
 
 
 
 A night of less sleep can lead to low energy levels, irritable moods, fuzzy thoughts, a toxic body – all of which could take the shape of a craving. If you find yourself craving for junk all day, then all you need to do is fix your sleep. 
 
 
 By Luke Coutinho
  Integrative and Lifestyle Medicine - Holistic Nutrition
 
 
 
