JOHANNESBURG: In trying to up his game each passing day to handling indifferent performances from his teammates, the scope of Virat Kohli’s responsibility has only widened. From being a batsman who was expected to fill up the crack left wide open by the Fab Four exit, he’s now a leader expected to marshal a side that has lacked the same determination as him on the tour of  . In that, Kohli is a man learning things the hard way.

 
 
 
 
 
 “Every day is a learning phase for me. If I didn’t learn from the early days of my career, I wouldn’t be here”, he says. “It’s always an ongoing process of learning every day, learning from your mistakes, correcting those mistakes and moving forward. I have never stopped learning, I will never stop learning. Responsibility can become less or more according to the phases, but it’s all about hanging in there and accepting all of it. I have gone through bad phases in my career. Ups and downs are a part of a sportsman’s career and I understand that.”
 
 He spoke on similar lines once again on the eve of the third Test. “Everyone (in the team) has been spoken to individually; the discussions have happened as to what went wrong, what happened, why it happened. As I said, every time you step on to the field, you have an opportunity to correct your mistakes, and that’s how you progress at the international level. I am sure everyone is looking forward to rectifying those mistakes and then if they are in the same positions, consolidating those positions,” Kohli said.
 
 Team India’s struggles with the bat alone have led to conceding a series here and while a lot of work will have to be done back in India once the team returns, the skipper expects his team to walk into the third Test here with the benefit of hindsight.
 
 “Batsmen are looking to rectify their mistakes that happened in the first two games. It’s a chance for us to change things around. That will build characters, that will build individuals and that will build personalities. That can be a milestone for guys going forward,” he says.
 
 
