JAIPUR: Under pressure from parents protesting against the fee hike and the   party, which has announced statewide campaign, education minister   has directed the state education department to issue show-cause notices to private schools that have increased   above 15%.

 The department has cleared that schools that have not followed the Rajasthan Private School Fees Act for deciding the fees will face strict action which could be even cancelling their no objection certificate. The regional manager of   has been called in Jaipur to discuss its rules related to fees hike. Several schools in the state have increased the fees up to 30% leaving parents fuming.
 
 “Those schools which have increased the fees in unjust manner will not be spared. It has come to our attention that some schools have raised the fees up to 30%. It is unacceptable and state will exercise its powers to punish such errant schools and to ensure that no parent has to suffer financially. The message is clear for schools that you either revise your fees or ready to face action,” said Vasudev Devnani, education minister.
 
 The department has directed   (DEO) to identify schools in their districts which has increased fees substantially. “The identified schools will be served show-cause notices to justify the increase of fees, in case they fail, they will face the punishments like financial penalty and cancellation of its no objection certificate, which is required to run the institute,” said Devnani. The department has also urged parents to come forward with their complaints in order to expedite the process. 
 
 The state wide protest by parents over fees along with the Congress taking a political advantage has forced the government to take necessary steps before its too late. Aware that tightening the noose of private schools over fees hike is not easy, the minister is meeting CBSE regional director to explore the possibilities of seeking de-recognition of errant schools. “The errant schools are affiliated with the CBSE. I would like to know if we can prosecute these errant schools under the CBSE rules,” said Devnani.
 
 
