PUNE: In a bid to avoid the ban on the sale of alcohol along the highway, more than 450 liquor vends and permit rooms in rural areas have made representations to the   government to prove that their areas are “urban”.

 In December 2017, the   had asked the owners of about 250 closed liquor shops in gram panchayats to prove that their areas were as developed as the municipalities for the roll back of the highway alcohol ban.
 
 State officials said the home department will take a decision as to whether or not the gram panchayats meet the “urban area” criteria. The representations highlighted amenities like internet penetration, mobile facilities, health, education and entertainment avenues, proper drainage systems etc. that make them “as developed as the urban areas.”
 
 Officials of the state excise department said 450 representations have been submitted. “The representations claim their areas are urban, meeting all the parameters of a developed area — concrete roads, underground drainage system, health centres, schools and colleges, pharmacies, ambulances, street-lights, industrial units, auditoriums, playgrounds, libraries, mobile and internet facilities. They claim all such amenities make their rural areas as good as urban areas, so the   order on lifting the highway ban should be applicable to them,” the official said.
 
 Along with the representations, constitutional provisions on what can be considered an urban area or transitional area have been sent for consideration to the home department, which will take the final call. If the representations bear fruit, more than 3,000 liquor licences in the gram panchayats could be renewed. Sources said the government has up to four weeks, from January 12, to take a decision.
 
 A liquor vendor said his village is a mini model of a municipality. “Due to their connectivity to urban centres, rural areas now have all the amenities,” he said.
 
 A permit room and wine shop owner from a rural area in   said he has been out of work since April 1, 2017. 
 
 “My business has been shut since the 10 months. Close to eight to 10 youngsters working in our permit room have no source of income,” he said.
 
 
