Bilingual author  's latest novel 
  seems like an ode to the epistolary romance form with a modern-day twist. The entire course of the novel is a compendium of emails exchanged between two individuals with a passionate longing for each other. A Sahitya Akademi Award recipient, the 79-year-old author has written over 30 books in Hindi -- novels, short story collections, plays and collections of essay. Out of these, three have been translated into English. 

 In an exclusive interview with TOI Books, Mridula Garg shares details about her latest book, 
 , and what it takes to rekindle old romances. 
 
 
 
 
 . For two people passionately in love but unable to meet because of the circumstances ruling their lives, the best way to communicate is via email. I preferred it to posted letters because emails have an immediacy which letters lack. They go well with writing under intense demand of passionate yearning. Once 'send' is pressed, the mail can't be recalled. Hardly anyone ever drafts an email and keeps it for revision. It is the work of the moment most suited to expression of love and longing. Also, the email reaches the other person as soon as it is written invoking the same immediacy and passion in him. It transcends time and space, so is eminently suited to zealot ardour and a lover's hunger to be heard and replied to instantly. In fact Maya says she regretted sending one particular email where she talked of her grief , saying she wanted to press delete but pressed send instead.
 
 
 
 
 . Yes, it may be partly so. But given the type of people they are, specially the feisty Maya, I feel they would have said most of the things face to face also but perhaps not quite so soon after the renewed contact. They have 40 years to make up in a few days or weeks at most.
 
 
 
 
 . I strongly feel that generally, women are far more fearless when in love than men. But here there is a double bind.   is a Minister of Church while Maya is a writer by profession and calling. Dissent with social mores and candour are part and parcel of her being a writer. Kevin is not only a parson but also a politician so is more circumspect. Tact and compromise are his forte. It might also be partially culture specific as the British are generally more reticent in expressing themselves. In fact he often holds his Scottish upbringing responsible for his reticence or ambivalence in the book. 
 
 
 
 
 . Yes, it definitely has. The protagonists are both politically aware rather alert people for whom their own social and political milieu features as an important adjunct of life.
 
 
 
 
 . It did both. One historical fact can't be obliterated; that Britain ruled over India and committed many acts of repression. Maya is acutely conscious of this fact and does not evade facing it. This leads to dissension between them but it finally ends in strengthening their relationship because he understands the value of Independence as much as she, being a torch bearer for Scottish independence or at least autonomy. He says he has learnt a lot from India's non violent Independence Movement. She honours him for it and it strengthens her love. It is their personal demons which create differences or hesitations. Dithering as he calls it causes much heartburn for them despite the great love. The feeling of guilt on his part is the ultimate demon. 
 
 
 
 
 . Memory and love go hand in hand. They are two entities which admit of the greatest degree of imagination and fantasy to forge something which is far deeper and variegated than a recital of facts. What actually happened is always coloured by what could have happened and it is often difficult to separate the two. Love needs memory to temper it and memory becomes ever lasting because of love. Lasting love on one hand and grief at the loss of an abiding love, both play imperative roles in the narrative. 
 
 
 
 
