CHANDIGARH: Punjabi singers from the   are conspicuous by their absence at the ongoing Patiala Heritage Festival. Ironically, there are exponents of the Patiala gharana across the country but not in Punjab. The sole Punjabi exponent of the Patiala gharana at the festival is Avtar Kaur of Ludhiana, who has also performed at the Harivallabh Sammelan in Jalandhar.

 She is a disciple of classical vocalist  , who performed at the heritage festival in Patiala on Thursday .
 
 
  
 
 “The style of singing in Patiala gharana is a bit difficult. Promotion of folk songs and other Punjabi songs is the main reason for extinction of exponents and patrons of the gharana in Punjab. I learnt classical music because the environment in my house was conducive to it. My father also used to sing classical,” said Avtar Kaur.
 
 Her guru Ajoy Chakarbarty, who is based in Kolkata, is into different gharanas. “I am not bound by any gharana. I also sing Delhi gharana, Agra gharana, Kirnana gharana and Gwalior gharana. In Patiala gharana, one needs to focus on shud bari, swar swachta and riyaz,” he said.
 
 It's been more than one year since the doyen of Patiala gharana, Ustad Fateh Ali Khan, passed away. But his music, especially the thumri, ‘Mora piya mose bole na,’ are still hugely popular.
 
 Ustad Fateh Ali Khan was born in Patiala in 1935. At the age of 12, he and his elder brother Amanat Ali Khan became the chosen singers in the durbar of  . He was known as Bade Ali Khan Saheb among classical vocalists and received a number of awards, including the President’s Pride of Performance.
 
 He moved to Pakistan after Partition and passed away last January at the age of 82 at PIMS hospital in Islamabad.
 
 “Ustad Fateh Ali Khan’s son Ali Baksh Khan composed the thumri (song) ‘Taan kaptan kehla gaye ho jagat me Fateh Ali Khan’ (You have been honoured with the title of the world’s captain of melodies), which is still sung by exponents of the Patiala gharana,” said classical vocalist  . He received the lifetime achievement and Param Sabhyachar Samman Award from Punjabi Akademi, Delhi in 2012.
 
 The gharana, he says, is a mix of singing styles in different gharanas but is comparatively more difficult than the others. “Its scale is high and one has to strike a balance between the high scale pitch and melody. The high skill level required in this gharana could also be a reason for it vanishing from Punjab,” said Battu, 81, who hails from Nakodar district of Punjab. Battu tried to revive the gharana during the last Patiala heritage festival organized by then   government over a decade ago.
 
 “I have been trying to carry the legacy of the Patiala gharana forward for the past few years. I started singing in this gharana after learning Gwalior gharana and Punjab gharana.
 
