NEW DELHI: Toxic smoke from a blaze at the   landfill is causing health problems among local residents and patient parties at the   that is almost bordering the site. 

 The situation was so bad on Tuesday that some drivers at a nearby   bus depot complained of  . Though the operations were not affected, residents said the efforts to check the smoke from spreading into the neighbouring colonies was unsuccessful. Two fire tenders are still working round the clock to sprinkle water on the mound so that it doesn’t catch fire again. 
 
 Relatives of some patients at the ESI hospital seems to be the worst affected. “The waiting area is exposed to the smoke and the heat and we have been inhaling the toxic ingredients for the past two days. Every time the wind blows towards the road, a pungent smell emerges from the mound,” said Krishna Mahato, a resident of Okhla whose mother is in the hospital. “Some people have been complaining about an itching sensation in the throat.” 
 
 Hari Ram, a guard at a construction site who sits outside, said his eyes had a burning sensation. “The fire keeps leaping out from time to time. Fire officials said it would take a few more days for the smoke to subside.” 
 
 Officials at the DTC depot near Tekhand said some of the workers had been complaining about throat irritation. “The fumes keep flowing towards us. The plastic in the mound makes the smoke toxic,” a senior official said, adding that they had requested the south corporation not to dump any more garbage at the site. 
 
 Though initial flames have been doused, the fire keeps re-igniting due to the methane accumulation in the mound, said fire officials. “The summer heat adds to the problem,” said an officer. The department has asked the corporation to prevent any more fire. 
 
 A senior civic official said the corporation had deployed bulldozers to cover the garbage with a layer of soil to prevent fires. “Frequent fires are reported at the   sites due to excess release of methane,” he said.
 
 
