Pune: Set up at Rs 3.5 crore, PMC’s nationally accredited state-of-the-art food and water testing laboratory in Kondhwa will soon be rented out to private operator/s due to poor revenue.

 This once again highlights poor planning on the part of the civic body. Even if rented out, the time and public money spent on the infrastructure and upkeep so far “will stand wasted”, activists said.
 
 The lab was set up in 2012 and has been lying defunct since January 31 this year after the expiry of its five-year contract with a private operator. Since its operations, the civic body was bearing the cost of Rs 52 lakh annually — mainly towards payments of salaries of the technical staff. 
 
 “The civic administration didn’t renew the contract with the private contractor as the facility failed miserably to recover its high running costs. This has prompted the civic body to rent it out to private operator/s and earn monthly income,” a civic official said.
 
 The lab was among the only three food laboratories in Pune that have got the much sought-after accreditation of the National Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL). After the accreditation,   became the first civic body in the country to get the coveted tag for its lab. 
 
 “After the lab became operational in 2013, the first three and half years were solely dedicated to put all the norms in place and build documentation to seek the NABL accreditation. All this while, PMC paid the salaries of the technical staff (appointed by the private contractor) but didn’t generate any income. After seeking the NABL accreditation, the lab was made open to public in last one-and-a-half year. During this period, about 1,000 citizens availed the services at the lab at nominal cost,” the official said.
 
 There were plans to offer food and water testing services to the state’s Food and Drug Administration officials at government rates. Besides, the civic officials were also planning to seek grant in aid from the Union government under the lab upgradation project.
 
 “But these plans will not materialise now as the PMC plans to rent out the facility. This will take away the NABL accreditation and the private operator, who the facility will be rented out to, will have to get the accreditation anew by following all the protocols and stringent norms,” he said.
 
 When contacted, PMC’s assistant medical officer of health Vaishali Jadhav said, “We are planning to rent out the facility to generate revenue. In the earlier arrangement, PMC had to put in money to run the lab.”
 
 Criticizing the move, health activist Sanjay Dabhade said, “This is one more project where PMC put in money and efforts to eventually wrap it up. This is simply wastage of public money.”
 
 
