THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Though power minister   has ruled out any immediate threat to   distribution in the   ( ), the state undertaking may find itself in a spot in a few years if its financial crisis is not addressed at the earliest.

 
 When the   was restructured and the KSEBL was incorporated in 2013, a master trust was set up in order to meet the pension expenditure of the employees on the KSEBL roll. The liability was calculated as Rs 12,419 crore.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 According to the original plan, the KSEBL and the state government would together fund the trust. The government was supposed to transfer its share by way of retention of electricity duty as well as budgetary allocation over a period of 10 years. The KSEBL would transfer the money in the form of redeemable bonds to the master trust.
 
 However, the plans hit a road block when income tax authorities ruled out the KSEBL’s hopes for a tax exemption for the trust’s financial earnings through investment of own funds. Since such a scenario would upset the long-term plan, the board tried for I-T exemption and in 2017, the I-T department heeded to the KSEBL’s demand. However, unlike as KSEBL expected, the I-T department insisted that the trust should keep its funds with nationalised banks, to claim income tax exemption. Anyhow, the trust has been operational since April 1, 2017.
 
 “The board was planning to borrow funds from the trust, in lieu of the current practice of depending on banks, to meet its additional financial obligations. But the I-T department’s stand would reduce the financial liquidity of both the KSEBL and the master trust. Also, the board and the government have to take decisions on several other technical and financial bottlenecks which have cropped up following the delay in operationalising the master trust,’’ sources in the KSEBL said. While approving the KSEBL’s provisional statements of accounts for 2014-15, the state electricity regulatory commission had provided Rs 814 crore as interest on the KSEBL bond issued to the master trust and also Rs 101 crore as annual pension contribution to the master trust. However, since the master trust was not operationalised till March 31, 2017, the regulatory commission would not approve the master trust scheme during the period from November 1, 2013 to March 31, 2017.
 
 The board and the government are yet to reach a decision on how to account the pension liabilities paid for the period. As per the original plan, the pensionary benefits of employees who joined the KSEBL after the restructuring of the board would be met from National Pension Scheme. While the board had expected its pension liabilities to elapse by 2056-57, the delay in the functioning of the master trust would upset these calculations.
 
