LUDHIANA: The Union ministry of micro, small and medium enterprise ( ) is going to organize a state-level conclave on   on January 8 to provide professional support to SC/ST industrialists.

 Paramjeet Singh, zonal general manager of National Small Industries Corporation (NSIC), said, following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Mission ‘Sabka Sath Sabka Vikas’, a state-level conclave will be hold by the Union ministry in Ludhiana to boost the morale of ST/ST unit owners and make them aware about the Centre’s Pubic Procurement Policy 2015.
 
 “The main motive behind this initiative is to create a supportive environment for the SC/ST entrepreneur by assisting them in capacity building and enabling them to effectively participate in public procurement process,” he added.
 
 “As many as nine stalls will be put up by different government as well private companies during the conclave to provide them better platforms to grow and compete with national as well international companies,” said Paramjeet.
 
  Kular, president of  , said, “This initiative will be of great help for the SC/ST units as they will meet the big shots in the private as well government sectors under one roof.”
 
 Cabinet minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot would inaugurate a special conclave.
 
 National Small Industries Corporation Limited’s Ludhiana centre head Ravi Kant and prominent industrialist Gurmeet Singh said more than 400 industrialists would arrive in the conclave and would share their rich experience. Representatives of 32 various departments would come to buy products prepared in the industries of participants.
 
 “Around 10 departments would hold an exhibition of their products,” they informed and added that the conclave would facilitate the industrialists in achieving their goals. They told that National SC-ST Hub has started its operations in the city from its office in the building of Karnataka Bank, Miller Ganj and the office has also been started taking several steps for the SC-ST entrepreneurs.
 
 It is pertinent to mention here that the Union Government has allocated Rs 490 crore for the creation of SC-ST hubs in the country during the last budget.   would formally run this scheme. They claimed that the creation of National SC-ST hub in the city will not only develop the city and state but also will help in achieving the targets of National Procurement Policy-2012.
 
 Under the National Procurement Policy-2012, every central ministry, department and public sector undertakings (PSUs) would set an annual target for 20% procurement from micro, small and medium industries besides 4% from MSME units owned by SC-ST entrepreneurs.
 
 
