GAYA: The education department is all set to change the mode of   payment to university and college employees. As per the existing scheme, the state government used to transfer salary grant to the varsities for paying the salary of teaching and non-teaching employees. Under the proposed method, the payment would be now routed through treasuries located in the districts having university headquarters.

  employees too will be paid their salaries through   treasury and the varsity has already opened a PL (public ledger) account No. 295 with the treasury, said varsity sources.
 
 Though education department officials refused to share inputs on the issue, information available on the official website of the education department confirms the move as all universities have been directed to open PL accounts. Almost all the universities of the state including Magadh University, Bodh Gaya, have complied with the government directive. As per section 35 of the Bihar State Universities Act 1976, the state government exercises total control over university finances and the universities cannot make payment without prior approval of the government.
 
 Education minister   said the government was committed to regularising the salary payment of the university and college employees. 
 
 The new arrangement is likely to prevent leakages and regularise salary payment of university employees. There have been large scale complaints of diversion of salary grant by the universities, payment in excess of actual entitlement as fixed by the pay verification cell of the state government and non-submission of utilisation certificates.
 
 Though the modalities of the new arrangements are yet to be finalised, sources say the registrar of respective universities would have to submit salary bill to the nearby treasury every month and after verification, the billed amount would be transferred to the university's bank account from where it would be disbursed to college accounts. The arrangement is likely to come into effect from the new financial year beginning April'2018.
 
 Treasury payment of salary, has, for long been, an important demand of the college and university teachers. Asked about the proposed change,  , president, Federation of University Teachers Associations of Bihar (FUTAB) said the government is yet to issue a circular containing modalities of the new arrangement. 
 
 When asked about the appointment of VCs and pro-VCs of Pataliputra, Munger and Purnia Universities, the education minister said appointment to these positions can be made any day.
 
 
