 is known as the person who connects the automotive industry with  . Paliwal is the global president and CEO of Harman, the audio and technology brand that was acquired by   for $8 billion in late 2016. The audio tech brand is eyeing a revenue of $20 billion over the next eight years (against over $7 billion now) and spans a series of well-known audio brands that include AKG, Harman Kardon, Infinity, JBL, Lexicon, Mark Levinson and Revel. At the CES in Las Vegas, Paliwal — who hails from Agra and is an alumnus of IIT Roorkee — tells TOI that the hunger and competitive spirit of Indians and values of an open and democratic system have helped him make a mark in the West. Excerpts:

 
 
 
 No, my case is very unique versus any other Indian leader in the US. I have lived in six countries over 30 years, (and) so I have made home in Switzerland, China, Singapore, Australia. We are very global, look at my leadership team — I have five nationalities reporting to me. So, I am very open, promoting people on their global aspects, global mindsets. I have a big bias to the people who understand global aspects... For me, US was a great sandbox to play and do whatever I wanted to.
 
 
 
 A lot of credit goes to the US, as a country. US is a merit based society… There is no glass ceiling, if you have good performance track record and leadership skills. But unfortunately, I will not talk about European countries in the same way, and Europe has a lot of catching-up to do.
 
 Then, Indians have a very unique advantage — good education system — IITs, IIMs etc. Also, our communication skills play a big part, as Indians don’t have to come and learn English first. We are quite open to accepting and dealing with western system, (as) we grew up in a very democratic system with full access to western thinking and western ways of mindset, including business mindset.
 
 Thirdly, India’s democratic system has really prepared leadership because we compete in an open system in India. I say jokingly that India is a 1.3-billion population, (and) you need to compete every day to even walk around. Hunger is another factor. The hunger we bring in when we come in here is a defining moment. I still say that Iam very hungry. Every day, I want to learn something new, Iwant to move up.
 
 
 
 
 Actually, it has given us a lot more synergy. It does not complicate. Samsung’s philosophy has been very different from many other Asian companies you’re familiar with. For example, Samsung’s semiconductor business sells a lot of components, memory and chipsets to Apple. But its mobile division competes with Apple. This shows that the founders, the board of directors of Samsung, allow you to be on your feet all the time, compete, and be respectful to each other, but also be at arm’s length within the company. It’s nothing like Japanese companies where the whole family has to do business with each other and keep everybody out.
 
 Samsung says — ‘Hey, compete at the world level. If you can do business with each other, within the groups, fine.’ Same thing applies to Harman. We are kept as a wholly-owned, independent entity of Samsung…We are agnostic in our approach. We-’ve had a demonstration here for our intelligent speakers and intelligent assistants… We have Google working in the car; we have Amazon Alexa, Cortana and we have Bixby. We want to put the user in the front and center — we want them to decide what they want to use. We should not be making that decision about — ‘you must use X versus Y’.
 
 We are open to collaborate and partner with anybody — Satya’s company (Microsoft), Jeff Bezos’ company (Amazon), Sunder’s company (Google). By the way, Google is a very big partner of Harman and Samsung. So, I use the term — co-opetition. So, we compete and we collaborate all the time.
 
 (The writer is in Las Vegas at the invitation of Nissan)
 
