CHANDIGARH: Working with a top cop and Chandigarh police’s first female  , Nilambari Jagadale, has been an inspiration to numerous young women in the police department, who are often seen as ‘unsuitable’ for the profession because of their gender. 

 But hidden carefully behind the hard exterior of a police officer, there lives a mother who returns home from work and embraces her daughter like there is no tomorrow. She goes around, takes her to places, spoils her and protects her. While speaking about the relationship with her three-year-old daughter Nitya, Jagadale exhibits the same traits like any other mother. “I have been working in this profession for a long time. Hence, when my daughter was born three years and two months ago, I had to manage both my roles simultaneously. But my daughter is very understanding and she has accepted the fact that her mother has to go to work, just like she has to go to school. She does most of her chores on her own,” said Jagadale, with a firmness. 
 
 Calling being a mother and a police officer a 24-hour requirement, Jagadale had very soon observed her daughter to be more independent than most children of her age. “It’s not a flow-tap thing that when I am working in the morning, I am not a mother and when I go home in the evening, I am no longer the SSP. I am both of those things all the time. But even during the day, I make sure that I call my daughter and find out how she is doing, has she come back from school or has had her food or not,” she added. 
 
 Despite her demanding position, Jagadale has resolved to keep her daughter as her first priority when she returns home. Nitya studies in pre-nursery class now. 
 
 However, once a month Jagadale takes a ‘station leave’ and takes Nitya out of the city, or to a temple and Gurdwara and spends the entire day with her. “My daughter is very fond of playing with birds and rabbits, which we have at home. She also likes playing with a ball too. So we spend time doing those things,” she said. 
 
 
