PANAJI: For the first times in the last half-century, Bicholim’s iconic Arvalem waterfall has dried up in March itself as opposed to the usual trend of the flow reducing to a tricke in the last week of May. 

 This is due to mine owners stopping the release of water from the mining pits into the Sonshi and Honda nullah after the mining ban was imposed in the state,   speaker Pramod Sawant said on Thursday. Sawant said the water resources department ( ) has been told to start the release of water into the nullah within the next three days so that waterfall starts flowing again and the eco-system around it is revived.
 
 “Fomento, Keni and Sesa mines used to desilt water from the mining pits and release it into the nallah. This has stopped. Earlier, the flow would only reduce to a trickle but this time it has dried up completely. . Within three to four days, we will take water from some mining pits and release it into the nullah,” Sawant said. 
 
 Thursday’s meeting was attended by water resource department minister Vinod Palyekar, WRD’s chief engineer and staff, the state chief secretary, the north Goa collector and the secretary of the mines department.
 
 Sawant said the WRD minister had asked his staff to survey the Arvalem waterfall area after media reports emerged of it drying up. Accordingly, a meeting was called for. TOI was the first to report the drying up of the waterfall. He said that on Thursday, Palyekar had also instructed his staff to carry out a study on the irrigation requirements in the North Goa mining belt and to arrange to have this quantum of water supplied by desilting water from mining pits.
 
 “Water for irrigation in Paliem, Surla, Velguem, Cudnem and Navelim was supplied by mineowners. Due to the sudden shut down of mining operations it was stopped. Since the last 15 days, I have been requesting the WRD to supply water. The collector, too, had issued orders. However, the water being supplied is insufficient. Today, instructions have issued that two more WRD pumps be attached and additional water released,” Sawant said.
 
 The meeting also saw farmers and village panchayat sarpanchas from the affected areas in attendance. Sawant said the farmers reported that only 40% of their water requirement was being met, this at a time when the paddy crop is reaching maturity stage. 
 
 “It has been decided that the WRD should pump water from the mining pits. The chief secretary has said that mines will also continue supplying water till May 30. The WRD minister has also instructed his staffers to make adequate water provisions for irrigation use,” said Sawant.
 
 
