TRICHY:   organizers have called upon health minister C Vijayabaskar to take steps to facilitate   district’s entry into the record books for conducting the highest number of jallikattu events. The request was made to the minister on Sunday when he flagged off the jallikattu at   temple in Pudukkottai . 

 
 Till last year, Pudukottai used to host around 50 jallikattu events on an average. While it is already leading in terms of conducting the highest number of jallikattu events this year, the one held at Thadikonda Ayyanar temple on Sunday was the 61st this year. Another 12 are scheduled to be which would add up to a total of 73 jallikattu events this year. “These many jallikattu events are the highest among all districts in the state,” said Pudukkottai district Jallikattu Peravai president A V M Babu.
 
 “The efforts of the health minister have been noteworthy as he was instrumental in getting us permission to hold jallikattu at new venues. Thus, we found it appropriate to seek his support for taking Pudukkottai to the record books,” he said. “It has now been ensured that jallikattu happens every year at Thadikonda Ayyanar temple,” said the minister as a gazette notification had been issued for the same after much efforts. 
 
 Terming the request of jallikattu organizers as valid and a matter of pride, he assured steps in this regard while emphasising that the safety of bulls and bull tamers should be the primary objective while holding such events. The jallikattu at Thadikonda Ayyanar temple witnessed the participation of over 600 bulls from across the district and 250 bull tamers. “Pudukkottai district is popularly known for the water management followed by ancient rulers apart from its temple, building architecture and tourist spots. Jallikattu is another attraction on these lines,” said Pudukkottai diistrict collector S Ganesh.
 
  Peravai president Babu claimed that as many as 2,000 bulls had taken part in a jallikattu event organized at   where 800 tamers attempted to tame them.
 
