NEW DELHI: Siblings Rishabh and   usually sat crammed in the Maruti Omni   on their way to school. On Thursday morning, before they reached school, there was a loud noise. Amid a rain of glass shards, they were violently thrown about. A truck had collided with their van, which turned over many times before coming to a stop. As they screamed in fright, they saw their driver crawl out and run away.

 From their beds in Sushruta Trauma Centre at Civil Lines, the two boys, who suffered injuries on their heads and fractured their arms, later recalled the horror of the moment. “We saw one of the girls who rode with us, Dipanshi, lying on top of other girls,” said Tarun. “We are usually made to sit on makeshift benches on the sides of the can. Those sitting on the side benches do not have anything to hold on to, so that is why must have injured on their faces and chest.”
 
 Dipanshi, who too is recuperating at Sushruta Trauma Centre, added, “I could hear people calling out for the driver and trying to break open the door of the van to pull us out. They also shouted out to other people to help them.”
 
 Like the three kids, the 18 students on the school van did not initially know what had taken place. “We realised we were in an   only when some of local people pulled us out of the vehicle. We were crushed under other students, and some of our friends were unconscious,” said Ritesh.
 
 Doctors said that one of the girls, Dhanisha, has suffered injury to her liver due to which she had to undergo an operation at the medical centre. Three others, Tisha, Vansh and Lovely, were referred to the AIIMS Trauma Centre by Deep Chand Bandhu Hospital, where they had been taken after the accident. They have injuries on their internal organs and head and pelvic regions and their condition was said to be serious.
 
 Families of the children undergoing treatment at the two trauma centres were incensed and declared they would register police cases against the owner of the vehicle. 
 
 “We took the van’s services because we do not have the means to take our children to the schools ourselves,” said Amit Kumar, a relative of one of the injured girls. 
 
 “Most of us leave early for work, leaving our children to fend for themselves.”
 
 
