SHIMLA: The Himachal Pradesh cabinet has decided to fill up 200 vacant posts of   (MBBS) on local-specific contracts through walk-in-interviews. The decision comes in the wake of acute shortage of doctors and aims at providing health care to people at their door steps, particularly in rural and far flung areas.

 In a cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister   at Shimla on Saturday, a decision was taken to amend the Post Graduate (PG) policy on tendering bond money for MBBS doctors pursuing higher courses like Doctor of Medicine, Master of Surgery, Diploma of National Board, Maternal and Child Health and others within and outside the state. This comes as a major relief for MBBS doctors undergoing PG courses facing hardship to get bank guarantees. 
 
 It approved appointment of two medical physicists and four radiotherapist technicians on outsource basis at the Government Medical College, Tanda to operationalise the equipment for cancer treatment. The cabinet also gave its nod to upgrade the Community Health Centre, Bagsaid to a 50-bed   in Mandi district. Twenty nine posts of various categories will also be created in the hospital. Consent was given to upgrade the   in Kullu district to a 100-bed Civil Hospital along-with creation of 26 new posts. 
 
 The cabinet also gave its consent to fill up 20 posts of Junior Office Assistant (IT) in the Dr Y S Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni in the Solan district on a contractual basis. It was decided to fill up three vacant posts of Investigators in HP Institute of Public Administration (HIPA) on contract. 
 
 The cabinet also decided to procure four pulses- Dal Channa, Urd Sabut, Moong Sabut and   from the National Co-operative Consumer’s Federation of India Limited (NCCF) under the state subsidized scheme by revising the existing policy, provisions and method of procurement of pulses. HP State Civil Supplies Corporation Limited and NCCF will execute a memorandum of understanding (MoU) on this which would save Rs 2.63 crore every month only on account of purchase of pulses.
 
 The cabinet also gave its approval to strengthen the HP Forest Ecosystem Climate Proofing Project in Chamba and Kangra districts with assistance from the KFW Development Bank, Germany by providing more requisite staff. This project covers 600 panchayats of these districts and is aimed at minimising and mitigating the negative impacts of climate change by increasing biodiversity and sustained income in rural areas through sustainable management of forest resources.
 
 Major decisions
 
 200 posts of medical officers to be filled up
 
 PG policy on tendering bond money for MBBS doctors to be amended
 
 20 posts of Junior Assistant Officers to be filled up
 
 Four pulses to be procured under the state subsidised scheme
 
 HP Forest Climate Proofing Project to be strengthened 
 
 
