 (North 24 Parganas): For   strongman and Bhatpara MLA Arjun Singh, the Noapara assembly bypoll turned out to be “a festival of the people”, while former CPM minister and North 24 Parganas district secretary   called it a “total farce”. Caught between the polarities was former Trinamool MLA Manju Basu, who sat alone at her Ichhapore Netaji Pally residence. Basu could manage to cast her vote at the polling booth 20 metres from her home on Monday but many of her Trinamool followers couldn’t. Yet, Noapara recorded a 75% voter turnout till 5.30 pm that is likely to go up even more, district officials said. 

 CPM activists took out protest rallies against “vote loot” at Barasat’s Champadali More and Naihati in North 24 Parganas, demanding repoll in the entire Noapara assembly seat though no major incidents of violence was reported from the area. “CPM polling agents have been driven out from 165 out of a total 173 booths in the constituency,” the CPM district secretary said. Singh discounted the opposition view saying that CPM and BJP were venting out their frustration after getting a rebuff from voters.
 
 A peek at select booths in the Noapara area revealed how the Singh brigade (Arjun Singh and Trinamool candidate Sunil Singh) has refined the art of managing polling booths it learnt from CPM in North 24 Parganas. BJP polling agent   stationed at booth number 98 of the Goalapara Anchalik Gram Rakshi Bahini polling station, Ichhapore recounted her ordeal. “They (Trinamool) forcefully lifted my husband   on his way to home to an undisclosed location on Sunday night and locked him for two hours. They did all this to prevent me from acting as BJP polling agent,” Bhattacharya said. “When I walked into the polling booth on Monday, some ruffians came and dragged me out of the booth at 9.20 am. I made a return an hour later with the help of central forces,” she added.
 
 The scene outside was similar. When TOI asked a school teacher standing near the booth if he had cast his vote, the teacher said: “Bolte parbo na. (I can’t say).” 
 
 A central force personnel on duty was seen dragging a false voter out of the polling booth at Noapara Brahmamoyee Vidyalaya, Shyamnagar under Garulia municipality. And in booth 43 at Ichhapore Girls’s High School, a Trinamool man was found giving proxy as CPM polling agent after driving him out. 
 
 
