PATNA: Bumper passenger traffic and rapid growth of city   (JPNI) Airport notwithstanding, the overall satisfaction of flyers has plunged over the last two consecutive quarters, the latest report based on Airports Service Quality (ASQ) survey said.

 The overall passenger satisfaction at Patna airport slipped by 0.04 points, from 4.55 points in October-December quarter in 2017 to 4.51 in January to March period this year, the survey conducted by the   (ACI) said. 
 
 ACI-ASQ survey is the only worldwide programme to survey passengers at airports on their day of travel. Every year, it measures passengers’ views on 33 key service parameters and identified services. The ACI, which is headquartered in Geneva, has been conducting these surveys for the past five years.
 
 Of the 33 parameters used for the rating, the Patna airport’s performance declined on 22, including parking facilities, waiting time in queues, the efficiency of the check-in staff, courtesy and helpfulness of the airline staff and waiting time at the security check area.
 
 The airport has, however, scored well in areas like flight information screens, waiting time at security inspection, ease of making connections with other flights, walking distance inside the terminal, courtesy and helpfulness of check-in staff and inspection staff, feeling of being safe and secure, thoroughness of security inspection, cleanliness of bathrooms and toilets and the overall ambience.
 
 The first quarter survey this year gave poor points to Patna airport in availability of bank or ATM facilities or money changers, internet access or Wi-Fi, speed of baggage delivery and ground transportation to and from the airport, among others.
 
 Patna airport officials said a temporary fabricated structure with a seating capacity of 300 passengers has been put up in front of the terminal building. The visitors’ area and security hold area inside the terminal building have the capacity to accommodate 600 people at a time.
 
 Birju Singh, a frequent flyer, said it becomes impossible to stand in waiting area or inside the terminal during day hours. “However, the passenger flow is good at morning and night hours. The airport really needs a new and big terminal to accommodate all the passengers at a time. To avoid hassle, I usually reach the airport 25-20 minutes earlier than the scheduled flight time,” said Singh, a resident of Boring Canal Road.
 
 Another passenger Danish Haque said, “I am happy that the airport has improved some basic facilities. With the installation of flight information screen, it is easy to know when the flights got delayed rather than running from pillar to post to inquire about that.”
 
 
