KOCHI: To successfully implement a no-horn zone on  , the city would have to provide infrastructure facilities that would facilitate hassle-free driving, said traffic management experts.

  S, head of traffic and transportation division, National Transportation Planning and Research Centre ( ), said that primary area that needs attention is road discipline.
 
  
  
 On Thursday, KMRL managing director, APM   had declared a part of the MG Road between Madhava Pharmacy Junction and Maharaja's   station as nohorn zone.
 
 "To create an environment where people don't have to use their horns, there needs to be a certain amount of road discipline, where people stick to their lanes. Basic road discipline can create a significant difference.   can be reduced by simply respecting the zebra lines and ensuring that pedestrian traffic remains unaffected," said Shaheem.
 
 Usually traffic cops are deputed to monitor motorists and pedestrians at junctions. Shaheem says to bring about a behavioural change, the police have to maintain a constant presence to ensure that traffic norms are maintained and zebra crossings are respected.
 
 Sadik Ali, former RTO, Ernakulam,saidthatoneof the main problems in MG Road is lack of parking space, which leads to haphazard parking on roadside.
 
 "In MG Road, we often find vehicles parked on the side of the road. The motorists have very less space to drive through and people often resort to aggressive honking because of their frustration," said Ali.
 
 He said several buildings in their initial design submittedtothe authorities for approval feature underground parking facility but once they are completed the owners convert the space into commercial facilities.
 
 Former joint   said in Kochi awareness is more important than infrastructure. “Here we have motorists at the traffic signal who keep on honking despite being aware that it would not make any difference. Though poor infrastructure is a problem, the mentality of drivers is the greater evil."
 
