MANALI: Extreme cold conditions in  's   district have forced bank officers to   with warm coverings and to provide electric room heaters in ATM cabins to ensure they function normally. 

 At Keylong, district headquarters of Lahaul-Spiti, an ATM is being maintained in a warm condition with help of electric room heaters during business hours. According to Sangeeta, branch manager at Keylong for State Bank of India (SBI), sometimes the ATM cabin get a bit of heat from sun, but mostly temperature remains very low. "We use electric heaters to maintain the temperature of the machine. This is done during the daytime when we have customers," she added.
 
 Conditions are even worse at Spiti where temperature is dipping to as low as -25 degrees Celsius. Despite many efforts by the bank managements to maintain a warm temperature for the cash machines, the ATMs here are mostly shut throughout the winter. Cold freezes moving parts of the machine and totally jams it.
 
 SBI manager at Kaza, Sameer, said ATMs give up when temperature dips below -5 degrees Celsius or -10 degrees Celsius. "We have temperature close to -25 degrees Celsius. We put all efforts to keep it working. We wrap it with clothes and use room heaters. For security reasons, we cannot burn coal or fire in the ATM cabins. When temperature is extremely low, we have to shut down the machine as its conveyer belt gets jammed and it fails in dispensing cash," he said.
 
 Keylong on Monday recorded minimum temperature of -12.6 degrees Celsius. The temperature is expected to reach -20 degrees Celsius by the end of this month. Not only bank staff, but employees of other government departments face similar problems in the district. They have to work all day with help of electric or   The residents, who have no agriculture work to do, spend most of time in front of traditional heaters in their cozy rooms.
 
 Even water taps in the Lahaul-Spiti district have frozen completely. 
 
 The vehicles do not start easily and diesel is required to be heated up with help of fire to start the engine. Temperature in Manali has also dipped to -4.6 degrees Celsius. Taps at some places are freezing during night time and water flows only after sun rises. A layer of frost covers the entire region and gives it a white look.
 
 
 
 
