BENGALURU: A day after TOI reported the strong likelihood of the Rs 657-crore project to redevelop BDA Complex in   going to a JV involving the Embassy Group, which has business dealings with Bengaluru city development minister KJ George, Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) commissioner Rakesh Singh said he doesn’t see any problem with the project proceedings.

 “Tenders under the PPP model for the long-pending redevelopment project were invited for the third time on August 23, 2017, and we received two tenders, including one from a JV of   and Embassy Group. A JV is permissible under tender conditions. The financial bids of these two bidders have been opened and evaluation is in process. In any case, it will be a win-win situation as the project will see some progress,” he added. 
 
 The BDA, in a statement on Thursday, confirmed that a JV comprising Maverick Holdings and Investment Private Limited and Embassy Group, with Maverick as the lead partner, has submitted its bid for the Indiranagar BDA Complex redevelopment. Another company,  , has also submitted its bid.
 
 
 
  
 
 The redevelopment of the old complex at Indiranagar is a compelling need to maximize revenue from the property as the revenue from 165 tenants at present is hardly sufficient to take care of the increasing management cost, the BDA said. “There is a need to demolish the existing structure and construct a much larger complex, and the present PPP model to redevelop the property would minimize the risk for the BDA. Under the PPP model, the partner brings the entire finance required for the project, whose cost estimation is about Rs 657 crore, including the cost of relocation and rehabilitation of tenants,” it added.
 
 It may be recalled that tenders under the PPP model were first floated in March 2015 but were cancelled due to non-submission of area sharing statement of the bidder. Tenders were floated again in January 2016, and a bidder backed out in the view of restrictions imposed by the   order on buffer zones around lakes. The BDA Complex falls within the 75-m radius from the periphery of  .
 
