Madurai: Elaborate arrangements have been made at the Sri Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple where more than 15,000 devotees will witness the celestial wedding within the temple on Friday. The grand stage, which has been set in the junction of the North Aadi and West Aadi streets within the temple, is being decorated with flowers in a hue of colours, including jasmine, chrysanthemums, roses and marigolds weighing many tonnes. It also has floral decorations on the roof. As many as 16,000 people would be able to witness the wedding inside the venue, where air-conditioning facilities and other basic amenities are in place. Apart from that, huge LCD monitors will enable the devotees to witness the ceremonies in places outside the temple. Due to high court restrictions, people have been asked to refrain from brining cellular phones into the venue inside the temple and the same has been printed on the tickets as well as the on the temple website.  Those bringing the phones would have to leave them in the lockers for safe keeping. The outer streets of the temple have been covered with tin roofing for the benefit of the pilgrims. Basic amenities including drinking water facilities have been made in many places. Meanwhile, the deities Pavalakanivai Perumal and Murugan left their abode in the Thiruparankundram temple on Thursday evening, as they will be brought to the Meenakshi temple to participate in the ceremonies. A grand feast is also being organied at the Sethupathy Higher Secondary school, for the guests who come for the wedding. On Thursday, commissioner of Madurai Corporation, Aneesh Sekhar, inspected the Vaigai river bed at Alwarpuram where Lord Kallazhagar will enter the river on his golden horse early in the morning on April 30.  Lakhs of people will witness this ceremony and the corporation has made all arrangements to provide amenities to the people. Chief minister Eddapadi K Palaniswami has ordered the release of water from the Vaigai dam for this ritual, and it will be after many years that the river will have water for the ceremony.