CHANDIGARH: Despite the huge campus of the district and sessions court in Sector 43, the visitors can’t find space to park their cars. Avoiding a big free space nearby, they occupy the sidewalks and the medians of the Sector 43-42 dividing road, besides an adjacent plot.

 The overwhelming number of cars parked on these pavements and medians have become a traffic hazard, for the cyclists and rickshaw-pullers, especially, who are constantly in the danger of getting into the path of a reversing car. A lack of action on the UT Administration’s idea of building a multi-level parking lot on the adjacent spot has caused the chaos to intensify, say the advocates and court officials.
 
 Given the number of lawyers, officials, notaries, and visitors thronging to these courts every day, the parking infrastructure ought to be better. “Nearly 100 cars are parked within the complex daily, up to the boundary wall. There is no further room for more, so some drivers use a vacant plot outside,” said advocate Sanjeev Dhiman.
 
 The rush for space on the pavements and roadsides has reduced mobility on that road severely. “An average of 1,000 cars a day must be visiting the district court on a regular basis, and so a bigger parking lot is a pressing requirement. The ground next to the pavement is already grabbed by small food vendors and tea sellers. Or it is jammed with motorcycles and scooters from one end to another. It leaves only the pavements and medians for the cars, and that row is also extensive,” said lawyer  .
 
 The cars, encroaching the pavement, cycle track and the roadside are all wrongfully driven on the cycle tracks by both advocates and the visitors coming to the court for easy accessibility. "It sometimes becomes difficult to take a turn and then use the internal road before the court to park the car, but this feels easier, because we can easily go inside and also leave early, with no tension of being stuck in the dense traffic at the parking," said a client, under the condition of anonymity. 
 
 The cars on the pavement opposite to the court trouble the residents of Sector 42-C. Resident   said: “The cars remain parked from morning to evening, and it feels crowded all the time. This is not a parking lot. These are pavements and bicycle tracks. The visitors should have own parking.” A waste land in front of the government houses is also blocked with the cars of advocates, police officers, and visitors, who don’t have a suitable place to park.
 
 “When the court building came up in 2009, the problem of parking was anticipated. Hence, the vacant land between the Judicial Academy and the courts was declared to be used raising a multi-level parking lot, of which at least a complete floor was promised to the advocates. An agreement was signed between the district bar association and the UT Administration,” said  , former vice-president of the  . “However, the cost of the project was in Rs 30 crore, so the process of approval of funds from the central government was never completed. We have tried raising the issue with the UT Administration a couple of times, but they say the file is with the central government and they must get it back to be able to do something.”
 
 
 
 
