Recently, the team of 'Aiyaary' had an opportunity to experience from close quarters how the men in uniform from the   (BSF) at Jaisalmer (Rajasthan), lead lives away from their loved ones and homes. Clearly, working on a film that has the armed forces as its backdrop has its own pluses. The film’s writer-director, Neeraj Pandey, along with his film’s actors Manoj Bajpayee,  , former Miss Indias Rakul Preet Singh and  , were invited to the   camp in Jaisalmer, by the soldiers to experience their professional routines and the course of their lives in general, which they lead miles away from their homes and loved ones. 

 On Thursday (January 11), the movie’s team embarked from Mumbai to the camp. What followed was a two-day activity with the jawans. As a part of the routine, on the first day, the movie team visited the camp for a PT drill where they did a set of warm-up exercises followed by pit jumping, jumping over six-foot walls and rope climbing. After spending a tiring few hours on the field, the team was given a lowdown on the maintenance of arms, followed by the arms-drill by Sidharth, Manoj, Rakul and Pooja. Post that, the team sat down for breakfast. At the end of the day, the jawans and the 'Aiyaary' team enjoyed traditional Rajasthani dance performances, put together by the locals of the region. The film’s team also participated in the revelry.
 
 The next morning (Saturday, January 13), the cast visited the border where Sidharth and Manoj also performed a Kurra checking of pillar 609 near Tanot along with the BSF jawans. To keep their experience more real, the team ditched their SUVs and travelled with the jawaans in the BSF trucks and jeeps. 
 Talking about the experience, Sidharth, told BT, “It was a great learning for us. This was my first visit to any border of our country and all thanks to the 'Aiyaary' team, I had a chance to experience things, which I will remember for the rest of my life. It was almost life-changing to know what the BSF does and how much effort they put in to protect us and to serve the country 24x7. I have newfound respect for the security forces of our country and I wish them more luck and safety. I can’t thank them enough for educating me about the life a man serving at the border leads every single day.”
 
 Manoj, who had been to the Jaisalmer border area while shooting for his film 'Road', added, “Everything has changed since my last visit here. I have seen a 
 few women jawans here and it is a great sight. It has been quite an educational tour.”
 
 
