NAGPUR: Reverend Abraham Viruthakulangara, archbishop of Nagpur, passed away in New Delhi on Thursday after suffering a heart attack in morning hours. He was in the national capital to attend a meet of all Hindi speaking Bishops at   Centre. He was 74.

 His body was flown into the city late Thursday evening and carried to the SFS church on Kamptee Road where it will be kept in the Bishop’s house for next three days. He will be buried in the church on April 23 at 3.30pm, informed the PRO of Archdiocese of Nagpur.
 
 Born on June 5, 1943,   hailed from Kerala and joined a seminary in 1960 at Indore when he was 16. He was ordained a priest in 1969 after he completed his priestly studies at the St. Charles Seminary, Nagpur. He was appointed as bishop of newly created Diocese of Khandwa in Madhya Pradesh in 1977 at the age of 34 and became the youngest prelate in India and the 100th Indian Catholic Bishop since the establishment of the Indian hierarchy in 1886.
 
 After serving at Khandwa for 21 years, he was promoted as the metropolitan archbishop of Nagpur on April 22, 1998. He began his work here with the motto ‘Radiating Christ’s Light’. The Archdiocese of Nagpur includes Bhandara and Gondia in Maharashtra, and Seoni, Balaghat, Betul and Chhindwara in Madhya Pradesh.
 
 The Catholic community received the news with shock and grief. “I have known him since 2001 when he brought me to Nagpur,” said Father Lijo Thomas, PRO of Archdiocese of Nagpur. “He was a very affable and warm person and a father figure to the entire community. During his two decade service in Khandwa, he helped the Christians bond with their Hindu and Muslim neighbours,” he said. His proficiency in languages helped him reach out to thousands of people.
 
 “He was a very dynamic person who could mix with youth and children with ease,” said Fr Jerome Pinto, vicar general, Archibishop’s House, who was a year junior to him at the St. Charles Seminary, Nagpur. “Nagpur Archdiocese has seen dramatic changes in its services to local people during his tenure,” he adds.
 
 “We are still trying to come to terms with this terrible news,” said Father Isaac, chancellor at the Bishop’s home. “He was so active and worked with zeal. He will be remembered for his open mindedness and the way in which he mingled with people of all religions,” he said. “It is now when he has passed away that the real impact of his work will dawn upon everyone,” he said.
 
 Recalling his special association with the late archbishop, Peter Mandonsa, the vector of St Charles Seminary said, “We used to meet very often as he continued to show concern and shower his attention on us. He was a very warm and humble person.”
 
 
