NEW DELHI: The Congress-led opposition has begun to explore ways to facilitate a discussion on the PNB scam after nearly two weeks of standoff in   even as the government’s decision to pass two bills in the din on Thursday further raised temperatures.
 
 With the confrontation over issues ranging from PNB scam to the setting up a   board dampening hopes of Parliament returning to normalcy,   sounded out parties like the   over their plans to disrupt proceedings.
 
 Congress leaders are understood to have conveyed that after two weeks of disruptions, they are keen on a discussion on the PNB scam taking place. Congress has pushed for an adjournment motion but could dilute the demand though it is insisting on a voting provision.
 
 AIADMK leaders are believed to have pointed out that the six weeks set out by the   for formation of the Cauvery board will end on March 30 and unless the government moves on this front, the party will continue disrupting proceedings. Meanwhile, TDP and   are also raising the demand for special status for Andhra.
 
 It remains to be seen if there is a breakthrough but the apparent keenness on part of Congress to ensure that a discussion on the PNB scam takes place may provide some room for accommodation. Congress has been alleging that AIADMK, TDP and TRS protests were backed by the government to avoid pressure from the opposition on banking scams.
 
 Congress walked out of the ‘business advisory committee’ meeting of   after the government sought to put eight more legislations on the agenda but there were indications of political discussions being pursued to end the standoff in a manner that will see a discussion at least next week.
 
 Rajya Sabha again failed to transact any business and was adjourned on Thursday amid protests. 
 
 In Lok Sabha, the government pushed through the Payment of Gratuity (Amendment) Bill and the Specific Relief (Amendment) Bill even as BJP allies AIADMK, TDP and TRS continued to raise slogans.
 
 After passage of the Payment of Gratuity (Amendment) Bill, the ceiling of taxfree gratuity will be enhanced to Rs 20 lakh from the existing Rs 10 lakh for employee under the Payment of Gratuity Act.
 
