CHANDIGARH: A woman leader of the Akali Dal,   Kaur Shergill, informed a court here on Monday that her friends ignoring her over AAP leader Sukhpal Singh   calling her “characterless” and “blackmailer”, pushed her to take the politician to court for defamation in March this year.

 Jaswinder, a general secretary of Istri Akali Dal, said this while recording her preliminary statement and submitting evidence against Khaira in connection with the defamation case before the court of civil judge Jaspreet Singh in Chandigarh.
 
 The case’s next hearing is on June 1, when three other witnesses will record their statements in court. The evidence include a video of Khaira released in December 2017, in which he allegedly uses derogatory words for Jaswinder.
 
 The video, according to the complainant, was released on social media.
 
 Her lawyer, Pardhuman Garg, described the words used by Khaira as “malicious and intending to harm the reputation of the complainant”. The petitioner also informed the court that the use of defamatory words against her had left her depressed.
 
 It was also argued that the prestige, image and reputation of the complainant had been adversely affected by Khaira’s statement. Her lawyer said the sole intention of the accused was to defame, disrepute, harass, and to cause wrongful loss and injury, to the complainant.
 
 Jaswinder said in her statement to the court that on March 5, 2018, she bumped into her friends Manpreet Kaur Hundal and Surinder Kaur at Elante Mall in Chandigarh. She informed the court that the duo first tried to ignore her, and looked confused and uncomfortable talking to her. 
 
 When she stopped them and asked for the reason behind why they were behaving strange, they told her that they saw the video where Khaira called her a blackmailer and characterless, and they did not want to be seen with her as they too would be called characterless and blackmailer, Jaswinder submitted in court.
 
 She claimed that though she had seen the video earlier, her meeting at the mall left her feeling “very embarrassed”, “humiliated” and “depressed”. Jaswinder has demanded that Khaira be charged with sections 499 (defamation), 500 (punishment of defamation), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).
 
 
