BHOPAL: Over 32 lakh LPG connections have been distributed in   under the Pradhan Mantri   (PMUY) in the current financial year, said Union minister for petroleum, natural gas and skill development   on Monday. After filing his nomination for Rajya Sabha at the state assembly, he said that the issue of value added tax (VAT) on petroleum products will also be discussed with the states after the RS elections.

 “Madhya Pradesh has recorded a significant achievement in PM Ujjwala Yojana by providing 32 lakh LPG connections to BPL families. With this, we are likely to achieve the national target of providing LPG connection to 8 crore families from the present 5 crore. We will ensure that each family gets a LPG connection”, Pradhan told reporters. When asked about the excessive VAT being imposed on petrol and diesel in Madhya Pradesh, he said the matter would be discussed after the Rajya Sabha elections.
 
 Pradhan said that Madhya Pradesh is the national testing laboratory for welfare schemes envisaged as per the BJP's ideology and also a pioneer state in coming up with innovations for poverty alleviation. “I would feel proud to contribute my bit to big projects being implemented in the state. Prime Minister has assigned me the responsibility of petroleum and skill development departments and I would ensure a major role for the state in both the areas", said Pradhan.
 
 The Union minister said that chief minister Shivraj Singh has taken a big decision by announcing Rs 1000 crore budget for skill development in the state. “This would not only encourage young entrepreneurs but also increase job opportunities. Both the Union and state governments are ready to promote of skill development and employment generation", he said.
 
 Regarding his nomination to Rajya Sabha from Madhya Pradesh, Pradhan said that he was overwhelmed at getting a berth for the   from the state. Madhya Pradesh is an ideological bastion as well as the testing lab for BJP. I thank Prime Minister, party national president and chief minister for giving me an opportunity to serve the state", said Pradhan.
 
 
