Nagpur: When most classical vocalists of his age would be performing by the book, 24-year-old Gandhar Deshpande mesmerized the audience with his versatility, range, impeccable training and tayaari. Gandhar, son and disciple of Pt Ram Deshpande, a popular Hindustani classical musician who hails from Bhandara district in Vidarbha, was performing on Monday at an event organized by Maifil in memory of Sushilatai Kalyanpur. The event was held in collaboration with Chitnavis Centre. Selecting Puriya Kalyan as the first presentation, Gandhar began with ‘Aaj shubh din aayo’ a bandish in vilambit, tilwara taal, which he followed with another composition of his father ‘Paar karo naiyya’, in drut teen taal and ended it with a taraana. Bringing out the different moods of peace, pathos and joy of the evening raag, he gave it a fresh lease with his young voice. Having imbibed the best from his father, who is known for his command over rhythm and variety of taans, Gandhar’s performance had all the maturity of a well-trained singer. Picking up a short bandish in raag Malkauns for his next performance, he followed it with another composition of his father based on Hanuman Chalisa. The impeccable execution of high and low notes, elaborate alaaps, a fine variety of taans, all showed his mastery over the swar while lending a lilting quality to his renditions. Taking the requests from the audience as his command, Gandhar also presented a composition in Jogkauns, which he admitted he was not prepared for yet would sing as, “My father says always fulfil the wishes of the audience.” A thumri ‘Sawari surat mann bhaye’ in Mishra Kelwani written and composed by his father, a bhajan written by Swami Ramdas, a natya geet ‘Surat piya ki’ and Jitendra Abhishekhi’s ‘He surano Chandra vha’ were his other presentations. He finished with a nirguni bhajan of Kumar Gandharv in raag Kalingada. “We had also invited Gandhar’s father Pt Ram Deshpande to perform when he was learning music from Pt Prabhakarrao Deshkar in Nagpur,” Dinkar Kukde, a member of Maifil told TOI. “As he has been trained by his father who has learnt music from Kirana, Gwalior and Agra gharana, Gandhar gives glimpses of these styles in his presentations,” Kukde added.