 It was in late 2014 that   met up with an old friend who suggested that the director try his hand at television. Cut to February 2015 and Indrajit was at a popular studio in the outskirts of the city readying to face the camera for his first ever outing on television. The show was titled   and the friend was none other than Parameshwar Gundkal, the head of the popular channel airing Majaa Talkies.
  “I’d be lying if I didn’t share how nervous I was that day. As a director who has helmed nine films in Sandalwood, I had this elitist notion that doing television would mean that I didn’t have movies in hand. I was extremely apprehensive about what it’d do to my image and was in a dilemma about accepting the show. I have been offered many before and it was this very same belief that had prevented me from accepting them. But Param convinced me that this was the right platform for my TV innings and I accepted it,” shares Indrajit.
  Hosted by  , the reality show has celebrated three years on air and Indrajit is thrilled. “We have clocked 280 episodes and every personality involved with the show is a star in his/her own right. Be it Aparna, Mandya Ramesh or even Naveen Padil, each of them has a sizable fan following today. I am told that it is one of the longest-running reality shows in Indian television,” avers Indrajit.
  Contrary to his belief, his own popularity has catapulted to another league today. “I was called as the   by fans. Until then, Sandalwood directors were shrouded in anonymity even if their films did well. People were able to put a face to the director’s name after I was bestowed with the title. Movies gave me a lot of creative satisfaction and made me famous in  . But after doing Majaa Talkies, I have been able to reach out to Kannadigas across the globe,” he smiles,
  Majaa Talkies will now be making a return to your TV screens. “The sets will be bigger. More celebrities will be part of the show and new characters will be introduced. My presence of course will continue to be there and my laughter has become a trademark on the show. Being a fan of Charlie Chaplin, I am now able to truly witness the power of laughter... it is truly the best medicine for the soul,” sums up Indrajit.
