CHENNAI: At least three high-cost highways projects have been stalled because Centre has not cleared parcels of defence land for acquisition by the Tamil Nadu government. For instance, a bridge across Adyar river in Chennai, connecting Tharapakkam and Anakaputhur in Kancheepuram district has been delayed by more than nine years pending acquisition of 4.39 grounds of land from the Indian Air Force. Tamil Nadu chief minister   has now sought the help of Union defence minister   to clear the road blocks. He has informed her about the cost escalation of the projects for want of approximately 20 grounds of land for three projects.

 “The TN government is either willing to pay for the land required, or provide an equivalent piece of land (for Anakaputhur project). Hence, pending transfer of land, an immediate ‘enter upon permission’ (to use the land) may be issued to the highways department,” Palaniswami said in a letter to the defence minister dated January 18, a copy of which is available with TOI. Similar letters were written with regard to two other projects. Due to the inordinate delay, the cost of projects has soared, causing anxiety to the implementing agencies.
 
 A grade separator at Pallavaram at the intersection of Sandhai Road and Kundrathur Road with GST Road, close to the Chennai airport, has been pending for more than three years for want of land from QMG and Cantonment Board of the Indian Army. Six arms of a road-over-bride costing Rs 74 crore in Trichy junction were completed, but the Chennai arm has been pending for five years. The lone arm has been delayed because 12 grounds of Trichy Cantonment is yet to be acquired. 
  
  
 
 The Anakaputhur bridge across river Adyar was sanctioned by the government in 2008 under NABARD scheme. The long bridge consists of 11 spans and each span is 14.6m long. Of the 11 decks, nine were laid in May 2011. While laying the last two, work was stopped by Air Force. Two piers were, however, completed on the land claimed by Air Force as its own. The Air Force and Kancheepuram district administration had held consultations in the past. Air Force apparently sought Rs 5.57 crore for the piece of land. 
 
 The state is worried as the project cost has shot up to Rs 7 crore, excluding the cost of land acquisition. The contract deal ended after the stop work notice by the Air Force. The project would have been a boon to the suburbs given the poor road infrastructure in the region. In Pallavaram, the formation of a main carriageway on the left side of grade separator towards   needs widening, which requires 4.5 grounds of defence land. 
 
 “While the existing carriageway from Chennai Airport to Chengalpet is three lane, the absence of similar width near grade separator leads to traffic chaos during peak hours and many are unable to reach the airport in time,” said Federation of Civic and Welfare Associations of Pallavaram, president,  . For the Trichy project, the state government has given its nod for payment of Rs 5.77crore for the transfer of a land, but reply is still not forthcoming from the defence.
 
 
