GOLD COAST:   and  , who will be India’s flag bearer at the closing ceremony, led the charge as Indian boxers touched a new high on Saturday. They bagged a total of nine medals – 3 gold, 3 silver and 3 bronze – at the Games here on Saturday.

 
 While Mary was the only winner from the women’s side, all the Indian boxers in the men’s section won a medal.
 
 Blood, mixed with sweat, was dripping down his face after  , who won the men’s 52kg final, came to the mixed zone to interact with reporters. But he looked unmindful of the cut. “It happened when I got hit with his elbow,” Solanki said referring to the bruising battle with his Irish rival Brendon Irvine.
 
 “My aim now is Olympics. I want to see India’s flag up there,” Solanki said dedicating the gold medal to his mother.
 
 Asked why he struggled towards the end of the bout, 21-year-old Solanki said: “Yes. I got a bit defensive. I knew I had cleared the early rounds so I didn’t go for the attack. My second round was really good and I managed to connect a combination of 5-6 punches. But I was getting tired towards the end because of the cut.”
 
 ‘Under pressure’ Vikas adds CWG to Asian Games gold Later in the evening, Vikas Krishan got the better of Dieudonne Ntsengue from Cameron as he showed his range of powerful straights and upper cuts to cut through the defence of his rival.
 
 “No boxer in men’s section from India has won both the Asian Games and a CWG medal. Today I’ve done that. I wanted to win it for my father (Kishan Kumar) and mother (Darshana Devi),” the Indian said.
 
 Krishan, who wants to turn pro, said over the years the fear of failure has begun to trouble him more and more. “This starts around 4-5 hours before the bout. What will happen today? Will I win,” Krishan said adding that this started after he lost in the Rio Olympics.
 
 The boxer said he hates to lose a bout as then he has to offer a series of explanations to his family members starting from his grandfather. “He is 90 but if I lose he is the first to question me. The same with my dad. Now my son, all of four years, send me voice messages through my dad.. ‘Medal lekey aana. Hum aapke bout dekh rahe hain’. My wife is also a professional boxer and she is an Asian medallist. What will I tell her if I lose?” he said.
 
 “My son asked me to wear red and luckily I got red in all my rounds,” Vikas added.
 
 Mary extends her territory to CWG
 The stage was set rolling by London Olympics bronze medallist MC Mary Kom who cantered to another easy win. Mary beat Kristina O’Hara of Northern Ireland to win her first CWG gold medal.
 
 “It was great to win before all the Indian supporters. We had gone to Ireland for training and later were in Canberra for sparring. She (opponent in final) was not that tough but it was not easy,” Mary Kom said.
 
 “Now I have everything… all the medals,” Mary said.
 
 The silver medal winners were Satish Kumar (men’s +91kg),   (men’s 60 kg) and Amit (men’s 46-49kg).
 
  (BFI) president Ajay Singh, who was at the venue, was elated at the boxers’ performance and said BFI will soon reveal plans to develop boxing in the schools. “At the last CWG we won only silver. This beats our record in 2010 too,” he said.
 
 
