

 
 Demonetisation had happened and people weren’t going to theatres to watch movies. When it released, 'BKD' didn’t just do well, it did very well. Shashank Khaitan (director) had worked on it for more than a year and we were all stressed. Even Alia (Bhatt) was worried that this was her only release in 2017. Eventually, the film fared better than my expectations. With '  2', we were dealing with a different pressure. GST (Goods & Services Tax) was just implemented and prior to that period, six to seven films, including big projects and much anticipated ones, had flopped. There was also the pressure of doing justice to a remake. A lot of people had doubts whether I could pull off 'Judwaa 2'. The decisions to make these films were not taken in a day, like chalo yeh banate hain. Shashank worked on the idea for BKD for a year, likewise with 'Judwaa 2'. My dad worked on conceptualising and casting for eight months before we started working on the film.
 
 
 
 As an actor, when I’m offered something, I get into the genre. Whatever people think of the film, I live every character that I portray. After 'Badlapur', I needed to take a break from an intense subject and do four-five different films. I had youngsters telling me that they wanted to see me in lighter movies. There is a different audience for 'Main Tera Hero', 'Badlapur' and 'Badrinath Ki Dulhania'. Now, I’m returning to the intense genre with Shoojit Sircar’s 'October'. It took me nine films to earn a director like Shoojit. With him, I was ready to surrender and do a film that not many would do. Like 'Badlapur', 'October', too, is the kind of subject that is not explored in our country. At the same time, it is commercial and will appeal to everyone, irrespective of the language.
 
 It is essential to do mass films not for numbers, but for the reach and popularity. It’s a misconception that films which do well are masala movies. If a film does well, it’s because people have enjoyed it, irrespective of the genre. People love and enjoy movies like 'Golmaal Again' and 'Judwaa 2'. There are many people who believe that films that are money spinners are not good. In our industry, I feel our filmmakers have stopped making Indian films. Take 'Fukrey Returns' for instance — its language is so Indian and hence, people enjoyed it.
 
 
 I don’t understand why we judge success with the result. This is a creative field and everyone has his/her opinion. While dad is given tremendous respect by his peers, pseudo intellectuals are too critical. If you don’t like such movies, don’t see them, but don’t tell people who like it to not like it. People can make up their own mind, and no one should have the power to tell someone what to do. So many directors have faded away, but he has a good success ratio and is still making films. The problem is that a few people, who don’t like dad’s films, are telling others to not like his work. As an industry, we need to become more thick-skinned, and understand how much we should rely on people’s views on social media or any other media. If people start looking down on commercial cinema, the industry will shut down. Year 2017 was a wake-up call; you have to make entertaining films to draw people to the theatres.
 
 
 It sounds good, but it’s just a rumour. It is too early to say whether we will team up soon and what we could work on next. He is not an 18-year-old; for his health and in general, I want him to take it easy. 'Biwi No. 1' might seem exciting and people have been asking us about it, but honestly, there is no truth to it at the moment. Right now, I’m busy with October and another new film. 
 
 
 There’s no strategy. I choose subjects from the heart. Strategy comes after the film is made, while marketing it. After 'Judwaa 2', I’m doing something very different and I won’t be seen dancing shirtless. When people try to figure me out, I tell them it’s not possible, because even I can’t figure myself out. At some point, I might take a sudden turn or make a switch. I think you need to have that much guts as an actor. When I do a different film, people ask why I am taking a risk and when I do a fun film, they want me to do another fun film.
 
 
 
 Honestly, I would love to do that, but I don’t know how my parents would react to it. Being Punjabis, they would want to do it the traditional way. The next step is something every individual wants to take at some point, but right now, it’s not on the agenda. I have just moved into my new house, and I want to enjoy this part of life for a couple of years before I think of the next step. It took me a while to get here, it’s a big achievement. It’s also important to enjoy moments. I had this big change happen to me while shooting for 'October' in Manali earlier last year. I was surrounded by nature and there weren’t too many people around, so I would often find myself just staring at the sky and relaxing. I’m not the kind of person who loves nature, but I was so overtaken by the beauty of the moment that I realised that we don’t take time to sit and think about what we want to do; we just end up being robots. Right now, I’m in this Sufi zone, if I may say so. The next 12 months will reflect the mood and the zone I am in.
 
 
 It’s going to be a testing time. For me, 2017 was a great year, box-office wise, but in the world around, there were disturbing events. Donald Trump’s election didn’t go down well with people, there were conflicts in the Middle East… after all, a war in any country affects the mood of the people across the world. I hope and pray 2018 will be a good year for all of us. Personally, bahut masti kar li, ab 2018 is the year to grow up. Who knows, I might become a kid again in 2019. Let’s see!
 
 
 
