BHOPAL: Five members of a Jhansi-based family, including an eight-year-old boy, who had come to the city to attend an engagement ceremony were hit by a speeding car in front of Nandanvan Palace Garden at   in   locality on Tuesday morning. The left leg of the kid, who was sitting on the service road divider, got crushed in the accident as he was caught between road divider and a car. 

 All the injured were rushed to a private hospital where the minor was kept on ventilator. 
 
 The errant car driver rammed a biker riding ahead and then hit the family while they were waiting for a bus to go to   railway station. The car overturned after hitting a divider. On receiving information, Misrod police immediately reached the spot and seized the car. The errant car driver managed to flee abandoning the vehicle on the spot. A case has been registered against him at Misrod police station and search is on to nab him.
 
 Investigation officer SI   said that Sharad Bilatia, 40, a resident of  , owns a boutique. He along with his wife Sangeeta, son Harshit, 8 and daughter  , 10, had come to Bhopal on Monday to attend the engagement ceremony of his cousin brother. His brother has been engaged to retired DSP Chandra Prakash Arya's daughter. The ceremony took place at Nandanvan Palace Garden on Monday night.
 
 The incident took place around 6.45am when Bilatia along with his family and relative Kamal Kishore Baghwar were heading towards Habibganj railway station. They crossed the road and were waiting to board a bus or auto-rickshaw.
 
 Meanwhile, a speeding car coming from Misrod and bearing Indore registration number, hit a bike-borne milkman. The milkman fell on the road and before the family could understand anything, the car rammed into them. It hit the divider and overturned. The errant driver fled from the spot after the incident.
 
 Harshit's left leg was crushed between the wheel and divider and he fell unconscious. He sustained major head injury also. Baghwar sustained multiple fracture in both legs while Sangeeta sustained multiple injuries and fractures. The bike-borne man sustained minor injuries and was discharged after primary treatment. Bilatia, who had gone to enquire about bus from a local, escaped unhurt while Jhunjhun sustained minor injuries. All the injured were rushed to a nearby hospital where Harshit's condition was reported to be critical. He has been kept on ventilator.
 
 SHO Misrod   said that the errant car driver escaped from the spot and search is on to nab him. His car has been seized by police.
 
 
