ALLAHABAD: For   of Indian Air Force’s   ( ) and mother of two, Rachna Sharma, fighting back was something she learnt very early in life.

 “I still remember the days when I would be angry to see see anti-social elements passing lewd remarks and teasing college-going girls. I could not keep mum so I learnt to argue with them and even used to pick occasional fights. After my stint with National Cadet Corps (NCC), I realised that women are no less competent than males and I joined the force in 1994, a year after IAF had started recruiting female officers,” said the 47-year-old who is the the first female officer of the administration branch to have been selected for the rank of Group Captain.
 
 Rachna is the first lady IAF officer who made it to the Group Captain rank in the administration branch. Rachna looks after the development of the new infrastructure at Air Force stations, under the jurisdiction of CAC. After school, Rachna joined Miranda House, Delhi University and later joined NCC, which she says gave her a feel of the power and responsibility which comes with a uniform.
 
 Numerous certificates and accolades later, Rachna was commissioned to the administrative branch of IAF in December 1994, where underwent through rigorous training for a year.
 
 She secured the first rank in the overall order of merit during her training and won the coveted medal for ‘Outstanding Performance’ from her Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief,Training Command.
 
 She proved her mettle by overcoming various challenges and after completing her training as a young Pilot Office Rachna went on to become one of the first women compatriots to be posted at a frontline fighter base in  , at a time when ULFA groups were wreaking havoc in the region.
 
 “The situation outside the base was extremely hostile and I was a duty officer. In those time, the idea of women fighting with guns and pistols was an awkward concept for a male-dominant society, but in services we were treated at par with fellow male officers,” she added. The posting proved to be lucky for Rachna, personally as well. “I cannot forget the posting because I met my husband   there.” Her husband is also posted at CAC.
 
