AHMEDABAD: The state police’s CID (crime), investigating the second phase of Bitcoin case with probe against Surat-based realtor Shailesh Bhatt for extortion of 2000-plus   from promoters of Bitconnect, has decoded the functioning of   firm. The investigating agency has also started probe into the digital wallets and bank accounts associated with the firm.

  According to CID officials, questioning of Nikunj Bhatt, Shailesh Bhatt’s nephew, revealed how the cryptocurrency exchange functioned. The firm was managed in Surat by   and   whereas   was looking after transactions. Bitconnect has its registered office in London in the UK. Primary probe, however, has revealed that the address was just a front and there is no office on the said address.
 
 
  
 CID has recovered 12 Bitcoins from Nikunj out of the 2,000-plus Bitcoin haul which, along with the Bitcoins recovered so far in first phase, will be converted into Indian rupees and will be transferred to a nationalized bank.
 
 “Apart from India, the firm has its presence in Indonesia, Vietnam, Hong Kong, Singapore and the US. We have identified a few accounts associated with the transactions and have intimated the respective banks about it,” said an official.
 
 Talking about how the firm functioned, officials said that the promoters were active in sale and purchase of cryptocurrency since 2016 where they aggressively promoted Bitcoins as a good investment option in Diamond City and elsewhere. The firm is suspected to have formalized in beginning of 2017 and soon after they started Ponzi scheme of very high returns on investment.
 
 “The promoters used to mention a special software that used to decide on low and high points of Bitcoin for purchase and sale respectively. The difference used to be earning and the firm had promised 365% annual return or 1% daily,” said an official.
 
 If the lure was not enough, the firm also had investment slabs. If the investor gets cryptocurrency worth up to $1,000, he would get the volatility benefit. If the investment was between $1,000 and $5,000, the person would get 0.1% extra on the earning. Likewise, the investment of $5,000-$10,000 and $10,000-$100,000 would get the person 0.2% and 0.25% additional returns on volatility. For all the schemes, the person had a lock-in period of 120 days (4 months).
 
 Like other Ponzi schemes, where the new entrants’ money is used to pay the earlier investors, the cycle went well till beginning of 2018. However, many investors got the idea of trouble ahead in December 2017 and had started pulling back their investment. The firm slowly found it difficult to sustain the cycles after which the firm went bust.
 
 “Shailesh Bhatt was one such investor who dreamed of good returns after investing in 0.1% scheme. However, when the company showed inability to pay his money back, he along with eight others extorted the cryptocurrency from Mavani in a farmhouse. Bhatt was picked up by a team of Amreli police a month later from near Gandhinagar,” said an investigator.
 
 
