MUMBAI: The father-son slumlord duo from Bandra (E)’s Garib Nagar—Salim Lightwala and Salman (22) —who were on the run after the police booked them for setting ablaze at least 190 hutments in the locality last October were arrested on Friday. 

 Salim, also an accused in the 2012 Azad Maidan riots, has a dozen cases against him including some related to assault, rioting and murder. 
 
 In 2012, he was externed in one of the cases. Salman too has two other cases against him. After the fire on October 26, 2017, the Nirmal Nagar police had arrested one person, Shabir Khan, and were on the lookout for the father-son duo. 
 
 The police said that they made the arrests after getting a specific tip-off about Salim and Salman’s location, though locals claimed that the duo had been staying in the locality even after the fire. 
 
 The police said that the fire brigade report and statements given by locals clearly prove that the arson was started by Salman. 
 
 “The duo thought that by doing so, the   will discontinue its demolition drive in the slum area,” said senior inspector Subhash Jadhav. The duo was produced before a court on Saturday and has remanded in police custody till January 10. Police investigation has revealed that Salman set a gas cylinder on fire, which led to a massive blaze in the slums.
 
 “Salim is the main accused. Hundreds of families were affected in the blaze when the BMC was demolishing illegal hutments in the area following directions by the Bombay high court. “The blaze obstructed the demolition drive and damaged Bandra station which is located adjacent to the slums,” said an officer. 
 
 Another slumlord from the area,  , said the duo’s motive was stupid as their hutments which they had rented out too were destroyed. “We have been running around to get a stay on a December 31, 2016 notice that orders demolition of 465 hutments. We have got a stay for demolition of most other slums. The October 26 demolition drive was only in the area close to the pipeline.” He added that the fatherson duo’s act has left hundreds of people without a home. Four others arrested in the case, including Salman’s cousin Rashid, have been let off after they turned witnesses.
 
