HYDERABAD : Hyderabad Traffic Police issued 1,518 challans againstRoad   (RTC) buses for violating traffic norms in 2017 alone, confirming that the presence of   buses on city roads do causetrafficcongestion.

 “We have observed that, most of the RTC buses stop at middle of the road to pick passengers, which leads to traffic congestions. We have book several RTC buses for the same,” said AV Ranganath, DCP traffic, Hyderabad. He also added that RTC buses often break traffic signals and are involved in rashdriving.
 
 “If you see the situation in Secunderabad Railway Station, the front side has narrow roads that are always busy with RTC buses, railway passengers and pedestrians. As it is already a congested area, the RTC buses don’t have sufficient space to stop, but they still do so. They should be in moving position and take no halts,” saidtheDCP.
 
 “All buses should be made todrive only on theextreme left lane of the road to avoid any cross cutting,” said  , a resident of Habsiguda.
 
  
 The situation isworse at   bus station, where authoritieshave closedtheJBS inner gate via Ganesh Temple. Due to this new restriction, all buses going intoJBS via Picket Junction have resorted to taking a U-turnfrom PicketJunction to enter into JBS. This has addedtotraffc woesin the area, bemoaned a trafficcop.
 
 Expertssaythat tosolve the traffic congestion issue, Hyderabad should take up a Bus RapidTransport Projectlike several other metropolitan cities in India, where the public transport like RTC buses will have a separatelane entirely.
 
 “The issue of traffic congestion will be solved if BRTP is introduced in Hyderabad. It is a long term project, but commuting willbeeasy if there is a separate lane for buses. In that scenario, both the traffic congestion issue and time of travel will be reduced,” said Vinod Kumar Kanumala, founder of the Indian Federation of Road Safety and trafficexpert.
 
 “There are maximum four lanes on the main roads, if one lane is dedicated to RTC buses, it will reduce space for other commuters,” saidtheDCP.
 
 “Imposing fineswill notsolve this. BRTP is a long term project for which departments have towork on road widening. In the meantime, buses must pick up passengers only at the provided bus stands instead of stopping in the middle of the road,” saidVinod.
 
 
