NAGPUR: A city-based social organisation Samyak Nagrik Manch, with office in  , has garnered over a thousand signatures on a petition seeking presidential intervention in the legal tussle on in   over provisions of Schedules Caste/Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act 1989.

 The petition has been sent to the office of the President and also to Prime Minister, Union minister for law and judiciary as well as Union minister for social justice. Social worker  , who spearheaded the Manch campaign, said President of India had special powers under Article 143 of Constitution in matters of grave public interest having bearing in points of law and facts.
 
 “We have already received an acknowledgement from the President’s office for the petition we sent on April 9,” he said. “The March 20 ruling of the Supreme Court has dealt a major blow to the very purpose for which the SC/ST Atrocity Act was brought into existence. By allowing anticipatory bail and making prior approval of higher authority must before arrest of a government official facing the case, the law has been rendered ineffective, he opined.
 
 Bhagat said two earlier cases in which the apex court had upheld these provisions of the Act and specifically desisted from diluting the law were also cited with a plea to the President to make a special reference in the matter to the Supreme Court.
 
 In Feb 6. 1995 case of MP state government Vs Ram Bhaloita and others, Justices B P   and Sujata Manohar had disallowed anticipatory bail to the accused saying the denial of the relief did not violate Articles 14 and 21 on freedoms. Similarly, in Sept 10, 2012, verdict in Vilas Pawar Vs Maharashtra state case Justices P Sathasivam and Ranjan Gogoi had made it clear that once FIR was registered in the case, there was no scope for hearing of a bail plea in the matter under the Atrocity Act.
 
 Bhagat said the March 20 ruling went against the spirit of the two earlier verdicts. He also said ruling had caused widespread alarm and discontent among the downtrodden communities in the country and was a fit case for presidential intervention though the Union government had filed an application seeking review of the ruling.
 
 
