BENGALURU: Former champions Services and Kerala will start as favourites to progress to the final round of the   as the South Zone qualifiers begin at the Football Stadium here on Wednesday.

 Hosts Karnataka, meanwhile, will be hoping to ride high on the back of fans support as they begin their campaign in Group A against Telangana in the inaugural match. Even if the hosts manage to get past Telangana and Puducherry they will face a tough test against Services on Sunday to decide the group toppers.
 
 "We are aware of the Services threat. And that's the reason why we played four practice matches against ASC so that our players get used to the Army team's style of play," Karnataka head coach Muralidharan told TOI here. "We are coming into the tournament after preparing for 45 days. The players are in fine shape and I'm 90 per cent confident that we will advance to the final round," the coach, a former ITI player, added.
 
 Karnataka has had a dismal record in the Nationals in the recent past, compared to their glory days as Mysore when they beat Bengal in 1969 - the last time the state hosted the prestigious tournament - at the   to grab the trophy.
 
 "Under skipper Vignesh we have a decent crop of youngsters and they are all eager to deliver. In Rajesh S (Rail Wheel Factory) and Liton Shil (MEG) we have two seasoned strikers who are capable of finding the goals. Among the youngsters it was medio Azarrudin SK ( ) who impressed the most," the coach said.
 
 Meanwhile, Services coach Darshan, a former   player, has set his sights on regaining the trophy which the soldiers last won in 2016 in Nagpur beating Maharashtra in the final. "The main aim is to win the trophy back. The South Zone qualifiers would not be easy and we expect a good fight from hosts Karnataka and Telangana, which has got six players from the Army," Darshan said.
 
 Services, who will begin against Puducherry on Wednesday, comprises four players from Army Red, the first team of Indian Army, and eight from Army Green. The team also has two from Navy while the rest, including striker Vivek Kumar, are from the Air Force. His trump card is striker Arjun Tudu who played for Delhi Dynamos last season.
 
 
 
 In Group B, which saw Andaman & Nicobar Islands pull out, five-time champions Kerala will face their toughest test against Tamil Nadu on the last day of the tournament on January 22. "We have a good bunch of youngsters and we are confident of doing well. In football, you can't predict but we expect a good fight from Tamil Nadu," said Kerala coach Satheevan Balan.
 
 As per the tournament rules, each team should have five Under-21 players and three of them should be part of the playing XI.
 
 
 
 It was bit unusual for hosts Karnataka to skip training on the eve of the tournament instead opt for a theory class. According to sources what prompted the team management to skip the session was a diktat from a senior   official. "The team management wanted to have a light session but a top KSFA official asked them not to train. They were told not to train so as to give a chance to all the other teams to train on the artificial turf at the stadium," they said.
 
 
 
 India captain   feels Santosh Trophy should be made more visible so that players get noticed. "The ISL and I-league players may not be there but it still has got quality players. The idea should be to make it more appealing and visible so that the players who impress in the tournament get more chances to progress," he said.
 
 
 Group A: Karnataka vs Telangana (1.15 pm); Services vs Puducherry (4 pm).
 
 
