JAIPUR: Two teams with similar fate but contrasting fortunes face-off at Sawai Mansingh Stadium on Friday. While Chennai Super Kings have made a remarkable return to the   after a two-year suspension and are eyeing the top spot, Rajasthan Royals, making a comeback for the same reason, are struggling to make the qualifiers.

 
 
 
 Forced out of their home, CSK have made the best use of their new abode Pune. In contrast, the Royals have not exactly been up to the mark at their fortress here, although three wins in five games do not look all that bad. Given that they have a very good record here, the Royals would be looking to add one more victory against one of the most formidable teams in the tournament. Victory over Kings XI Punjab here on Tuesday would boost their confidence immensely, yet there is a long way to go before they can breathe easy. In fact, they would be required to win all their remaining four games, starting with the one on Friday.
 
 
 
 Apart from the points table, focus will be on a few individuals too. Even as the Royals will be hoping for the majority of home support, quite a few shouts are likely to ring out for ‘home boy’ Shane Watson. This is the first time that the Australian will be playing in the IPL at Sawai Mansingh Stadium as a rival. There will be lot of emotions involved there, particularly for those who had watched him carry Royals to the title in the inaugural edition way back in 2008. Watson himself might gulp down a lump in his throat as he walks into the stadium in yellow instead of royal blue. He was inspired enough to smash a century against the Royals in their first contest of this edition. Playing at the venue again might be twice the motivation. Clearly, Ajinkya Rahane’s band has to be wary of Watson.
 
 Then there might be   in the opposition ranks too, if he is fit. Having bowled most of his better spells on this ground, Chahar would be quite eager to take the field.
 
 Talking about the Royals, it has been a story of under performances so far, particularly from the big guns. Ben Stokes, Jaydev Unadkat, Dhawal Kulkarni all have failed to live up to the hype created when they went for big bucks during the auctions. Although Jos Buttler, Rahane, Sanju Samson and Krishnappa Gowtham have been successful in patches, Royals were banking on Stokes playing the pivot around which the campaign would have been built.
 
