Coimbatore: A day after the admission process started in government schools, some parents returned from the government higher secondary school at Kinathukadavu without enrolling their children as they could not pay the school fees.

 “When my daily wage is only about Rs 300, how can I manage to pay Rs 400 at short notice,” asked Subramani (name changed), the parent of a Class VI student, who postponed enrolling his child.
 
 He said most parents were not aware that government schools too charge fees, and added that he would try to arrange the amount in a few days.
 
 The school charged Rs 200 from students who enrolled in Tamil medium, and Rs 400 from students who opted for English medium. The fee includes Rs 50 as fund for Parents Teachers Association (PTA) and Rs 150 as maintenance fees.
 
 The school administration gives receipts for Rs 50 and Rs 150 separately but does not provide one for the Rs 200 they collect for English medium students, said parents.
 
 Most of the residents at Kinathukadavu are daily wage labourers and their wage is not more than Rs 400 per day, said Siva Guru, a local resident whose neighbours postponed enrolling their children in schools as they had to save the fee amount.
 
 “When the school did not give the option of paying the fees later, doesn’t it mean the fee is mandatory and we have to pay immediately,” asked Subramani. He said they did not want to escalate the issue as the school is the only option for their children to get education.
 
 Citing that there is only one school in the Kinathukedavu region, P Mani, another resident, said the other options were the government school at Vadasithur, which is 7km away, and the government school at Kovilpalayam, 10km away.
 
 Headmistress of the school Parvathi said parents could pay the fee later on if they are not able to pay immediately.
 
 “We have fixed the maintenance fund as Rs 150 only after discussing it with members of the PTA,” she said and explained that the school authorities had appointed a sweeper, a scavenger and a clerk with the PTA fund.
 
 She said the school had to pay Rs 200 per student enrolled in English medium to the school education department. Instead of collecting it in the middle of the year, they chose to collect it during admission time.
 
 Chief education officer (CEO) P Ayyannan agreed that the sum had to be collected for enrolling students in English medium, but he had not issued any circular to collect the fee immediately.
 
 “The issue had not been brought to my notice. I will enquire into it,” he added.
 
 
