Meghalaya chief electoral officer   speaks to TOI’s Chandrima Banerjee about security issues, challenges the Election Commission has to overcome and preparations for polling day

 On preparing for militancy-hit regions
 
 Militancy-prone areas are mostly concentrated in the Garo Hills. But even that has been controlled to a large extent. So there isn’t much of a problem from the election point of view. Another thing is that  , even at its height in the early 1990s, never interfered with the election process. Historically, polling has always been peaceful. The recent killing of NCP candidate   Sangma was an aberration, an isolated incident. And police responded very quickly. With the elimination of Sohan D Shira (commander-in-chief of the Garo National Liberation Army, believed to have been behind Jonathone’s killing, was shot down on Saturday), the threat perception has come down. GNLA itself is a spent force, with only a handful of rebels left. We are getting additional companies of central forces, taking the total to 106 companies. This is much lower than the 200-300 companies deployed for Tripura or Nagaland.
 
 On sensitive zones
 
 Of the 3,082 polling stations in Meghalaya this time, 580 have been identified as ‘vulnerable’, 340 have been marked ‘critical’ and 67 are ‘vulnerable as well as critical’. But the process of identifying sensitive areas is a dynamic one and will keep on changing according to the ground situation. The final deployment will be done with the approval of the general observer in charge.
 
 On the use of VVPAT for the first time
 
 Initially, there was some scepticism among voters. But they were also curious. So we started engaging with the people through road shows, street theatre and meetings. We released videos in Khasi, Garo and English on how to vote on an EVM with VVPAT. We explained that it’s just like an ATM, where you get a slip after your transaction. So you know that your vote did go to the candidate you wanted to vote for. After all, voting should be by choice, not by chance. Through this sustained campaign, we have been able to overcome any apprehensions. And this time, every single polling station will have VVPAT.
 
 On all-women polling stations
 
 We have 74 all-women polling stations, which will be completely managed and run by women, for the 60 constituencies. Such polling booths will comprise all-women teams for conducting elections, which will include a presiding officer, polling officers, micro-observers and security personnel. In Meghalaya, the number of women voters (9,24,264) is higher than the number of male voters (9,05,840). Women have always taken a proactive role in the electoral process. In fact, women police will also be deployed in those areas.
 
 On arrangements for remote polling stations
 
 The smallest polling station, Kamsing, is very close to the India-Bangladesh border and has only 29 voters. It is not accessible via land routes and has to be reached by a boat. Another remote polling station, the furthest, is in Malikona village in Baghmara district of the South Garo Hills district, also very close to the Bangladesh border.
 
 
