For me, cinema is a series of images. I only begin writing for a film when I start getting the right images,” said  , noted   filmmaker and one of the pioneers of parallel cinema in India in a conversation with Nikhila H, head of Department of Film Studies, EFLU, at a session ‘Films and Literature’ at the Hyderabad Literary Festival on Saturday.

 Talking about what goes into making film adaptations of literary works, Kasaravalli maintained that he treats films as independent entities. “Once the script is ready, I don’t compare it with the original. For instance, a masterpiece like Akira Kurosawa’s Rashomon should be seen as a holistic entity quite distinct from the original work on which it was based,” he adds. To substantiate his point, he refers to his 2002 film   which deals with the issue of displacement of natives due to building of a dam on a river. “I wanted to narrate the movie very differently from author Na D’Souza’s novel upon which it was based,” said the multiple National Award-winning filmmaker. 
 
 “For me, displacement was not important in Dweepa, instead, it was the suppression of the protagonist which struck me as the major theme. I felt that Nagi, the protagonist is the only one who will be able to present a realistic picture of her submerging island and I wanted to highlight her struggle in my movie,” he says, adding that when adapting literary works into films, he primarily focuses on giving the audience a realistic picture even if it requires him to take a detour from the author’s standpoint.
 
 To validate his stand, Kasaravalli evoked Academy Award-winner Satyajit Ray’s approach towards the issue. “Ray used to first a read a story. If he felt it was interesting, he would go through it one more time and never touch it again,” he adds. 
 
 Stating his opinions on the culture of dubbed movies, the director quipped, “In my opinion, apart from the issue of aesthetics, dubbing of movies is depriving employment to many people in the film industry as you need only dubbing artists and don’t require cinematographer and other professionals. Cinema is the fruition of many departments working together in coordination. So dubbing a movie is stripping them of their employment,” he concludes. 
 
