MUMBAI: In an indication that a higher number of students scored better this year in the Indian School Certificate ( , class XII) exams this year, the cut-off for top 20 percentile is 87.6% as compared to last year’s 85.4%. The results were announced on Monday.

 
 
  
 
 The board on Tuesday announced the top 20 percentile cut-offs as required by the   to determine the eligibility of the 2.4 lakh students who have qualified for the JEE Advanced exam scheduled for May 20. Students need to score above 75% or fall in the top 20 percentile of their respective boards to qualify for a seat in the premier IITs. According to a circular issued by the council, the top 20 percentile cut-off for students from the general category is 438 out of 500. For students from OBC, SC and ST category, the cut-off is 427, 415 and 387 out of 500 respectively.
 
 While all ISC students with ascore of above 75% will qualify for the admission process, the higher scores are an indication that students scored better in the ISC results. This year, the number of students who have tied up for the top three positions for the ISC exam increased drastically, with seven students taking the first position at 99.5%. There were 17 students who bagged the second rank at 99.25% and 25 students made it to number three with a score of 99%.
 
 Principals in the city attribute the large number of high scorers to the board’s decision to not take any measures to moderate marks as directed by the  . “The move has definitely benefitted super achievers as their marks are not moderated. The students have got raw marks and hence, the top scores have bettered as compared to last year,” said  , principal, Jamnabai Narsee School, Juhu.
 
 At the school, 126 out of 238 students scored above 90% as compared to 122 last year. Principals said students scored better in various subjects. “The papers were not lengthy or difficult. For instance, physics is a subject students are worried about but most scored extremely well,” said Alice Vaz, principal, Ryan International School, Kharghar
 
