CHENNAI: Defender  , who was part of the India squad during the Under-17 World Cup in October last year, became the first player to join   ( ) when   (CFC) signed him for their 'B' side on a long-term contract on Friday. Even though the reserve side will play in the I-League 2nd Division and other national tournaments, it was learned that coach John Gregory can call upon Hendry to the first team squad if a senior player gets injured.

 Although the right-back is not part of the Indian Arrows side, which is playing in the I-League, and has been released by the All India Football Federation, a source close to the development said that it took some convincing on the part of the club to rope in the teenager from Bengaluru. Hendry was contracted to the AIFF till December 31. 
 
 "CFC approached Hendry and persuaded him to join the club. Once he gave the nod, the club had to convince AIFF to release the player. CFC showed AIFF their roadmap and plan. They told them that they had loaned out players to I-League clubs earlier and they always wanted players to get a chance to play and develop. After investing a lot of time and effort, the club managed to get the NOC. Now, Hendry has been training with CFC for the past one month before signing the contract. The club's focus is on youth development and it is open to sign more U-17 WC players," the source told TOI on Friday.
 
 Apart from Hendry, CFC have also signed six other AIFF Elite Academy graduates — midfielder Saurabh Meher, defenders Ajin Tom, Aimol Chongompipa Reamsochung and Mohammed Sarif Khan, winger Joysana Singh and talented forward Aman Chetri — for their 'B' side, which was launched on Friday. Chetri, considered to be one of the brightest prospects in the country, had missed out on the U-17 World Cup after picking up an injury at the last moment.
 
 Chennaiyin's technical director for youth development Syed Sabir Pasha, who is also the first team assistant coach, said the players are all a product of their grassroots initiative. "While selecting a youngster, we look at the player's talent, his potential to grow and his personality. These teenagers ticked all the boxes. So we signed all of them," Pasha said.
 
 In addition to the seven U-18 players, the 'B' team comprises local talents from Tamil Nadu as well as other players scouted by CFC from across the country. The 'B' team will make its debut in the Don Bosco – Fr. McFerran Trophy All India Football Tournament at Don Bosco Matriculation School, Red Hills here on Saturday.
 
 
