MOHALI/ZIRAKPUR: A three-storied   of a housing society, Imperial Garden, which was nearing completion, collapsed in  ,  , around 12.30pm on Thursday. No casualty was reported, but some labourers are feared buried under the debris.

 The district administration started rescue operations with the help of police, teams of civil defence, paramedics and the municipal council. Deputy commissioner Gurpreet Kaur Sapra, Derabassi SDM Paramjit Singh, municipal council’s executive officer Manvir Singh, Derabassi DSP GP Singh and Zirakpur SHO Pawan Kumar inspected the rescue operation.
 
 Sapra said, “It is very unfortunate. We hope that there are no casualties. We have been told that labourers were staying in the building but had gone to their respective workplaces. Some of their household items are stuck under the debris, but there is no sign of anyone caught under the rubble. The rescue operation is in full swing and will continue day and night with the help of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), firefighters and paramedics. The removal of debris may take three to four days.” 
 
 However, the rescue teams suspect labourers may be trapped inside. The NDRF is working at the spot, where four JCB machines have been pressed into service. Dr Dilbagh Singh, a medical officer, is heading a team of 12 paramedics with two ambulances and a first-aid clinic at the spot. Dr Singh said they have come from community health centre, Dhakoli.
 
 “The removing of debris may take three days. We are trying to ascertain if anyone is buried,” said Derabassi SDM Paramjit Singh. 
 
 The building was a stilt   with parking on the ground floor. It had three floors with four flats on each. 
 
 ‘It crashed in seconds’
 
 Eyewitness  , a labourer, said “We were standing under the building when we saw cracks developing in the ceiling. We rushed out. Before we could raise the alarm, the building tilted and within seconds it came crashing down. We had a narrow escape.” 
 
 He said many labourers were staying on the first floor of the building and their household items and bicycles could be seen trapped under the debris. Another labourer, who was staying in a temporary structure next to the building, said they were working in a nearby under-construction building when they heard an unusual sound. “Later we realized that the building has collapsed,” he added.
 
 
