BHOPAL: Raising many eyebrows, the   (CBI) has pulled out 20 officers in a single day from its ‘Special   Scam Branch’ in Bhopal despite pendency of more than 50 cases.

 
 All these officers have been transferred to the probe agency’s anti-corruption branch in Delhi. The CBI had created the Vyapam branch in 2016 and posted more than 100 officers, including a DIG, ASPs, DSPs and inspectors, at its Professors’ Colony office. With the 20 recent transfers, more than 70% of the staff has been moved out in the last six months, sources said.
 
 In a state headed for election, the opposition is quick to question the move. “The Congress had demanded a CBI inquiry into Vyapam scam with a lot of hope, but it ended up giving a clean chit to many of those who controlled the scam. I think they should close this branch,” said  .
 
 Officials of the central agency, however, say that investigation in 40 of the 50 pending cases is at an advanced stage. “In more than 100 cases, people have been chargesheeted and trials are on. Some officials will be transferred as a matter of routine. There’s no reason to shut down the branch,” said a CBI officer.
 
 When the CBI took over the Vyapam probe from   (STF) on July 13, 2015, opposition parties and whistle-blowers had expected swift action. Initially, a 40-member team was formed by the CBI director. It wasn’t long before some officers began asking to be sent back to their parent posting, say sources. A section of officers believes it will take two decades to get to the bottom of India’s biggest recruitment scam.
 
 Even when the Vyapam branch was opened, very few officers showed interest in taking up the central agency’s offer to join it, say sources. The agency had to eventually hand-pick officers from various branches and send them to Bhopal. “Investigators were roped in from northern and southern states. They were told they can shift their families to Bhopal and concentrate on the probe,” said another officer.
 
 In its first status report, the CBI had, for the first time, proposed setting up of a special zone with a manpower of 500 for a scam probe.
 
 “The colossal task of investigating 107 cases of corruption and nearly 50 cases of suspected deaths related to Vyapam, and examining more than 2,000 accused persons cannot be done with the existing manpower and infrastructure,” stated a CBI status report filed before the   on September 10, 2015.
 
 The zone has been named ‘AC HQ-II Zone’ of CBI and orders have been issued to provide support infrastructure, such as a building, vehicles and computers. The agency had sought sanction for 496 posts.
 
 The Congress had demanded a CBI inquiry into Vyapam scam with a lot of hope, but it ended up giving a clean chit to many of those who controlled the scam. I think they should close this branch said Congress spokesperson KK Mishra.
 
