KOLKATA: The probe into the death of Madhyamik examinee Arijit Das, who was attended to by an AC mechanic posing as a doctor in the ambulance he was being ferried by, revealed how deep the rot ran in the city and the adjoining districts.

  A hospital in Burdwan has been found to furnish certificates that the imposters used to pose as doctors as well as ICU and ambulance attendants.
 
 
  
 
 Arrested accused Sk Toffajal Hossain (26), an   resident who recruited semi-skilled youths as ICU operatives and “supplied” fake doctors in ambulances, has led the police to the Burdwan hospital, which has allegedly been awarding ICU technician’s certificates to youths after training them for a couple of months. Main accused AC mechanic Sk Sarafajuddin, who had tried to pass himself off as a doctor, had submitted such a certificate to the cops at the   police station. Sarafajuddin reportedly worked with Toffajal and eight others, all of whom had been brandishing such certificates to pose as attendants and doctors in hundreds of ambulances in Burdwan district that transported critically ill patients to Kolkata over the past one-and-a-half years.
 
 The police have summoned the owners of this hospital with relevant documents to prove that they had the permission to hand out such certificates. “Sarafajuddin was asked by forensic and technical experts to handle the life-saving equipment in front of them. He failed miserably despite having a certificate from that Burdwan hospital. This was when we decided to check how genuine these certificate are,” the police said. “We will also test Toffajal’s knowledge and make him appear for the same test as that of Sarafajuddin to ascertain his claim that he worked at two private hospitals in Kolkata for two years before setting up his agency for ICU technicians in Burdwan. We have also approached the two Kolkata hospitals for his records,” said a senior investigating officer.
 
 The police plan to write to the   (MCI) and the state health department, apprising them of the probe details. The police decision came at a time the health department has been carrying out checks in Burdwan to find out how the ambulance touts have so blatanly been fouting rules over so many years.
 
 Besides, the police have strengthened their search for Vicky, owner of the ambulance that ferried Arijit to Kolkata from Burdwan. “The multiple arrests show the entire illegal ambulance operations revolve around this man. He is the one who fixes or nixes a deal. His arrest is of paramount importance,” said the police, adding a few places in Burdwan and   had been raided over the past two nights.
 
 Investigators pointed out that most ambulances from Burdwan and Birbhum to Kolkata worked on the same principle: extracting the maximum profit, at the expense of a patient’s life. “The preliminary probe showed that the accused would claim the ambulance was fitted with latest equipment. But when the patient’s family demanded that they be used, the “doctor” present would assure them that there was no need,” the police said. For vehicles arranged from other ambulance owners to transport patients from nursing homes, Vicky – who owns at least four ambulances – would charge a hefty commission.
 
