PANAJI: Reiterating that there will be no change in the decision taken by the state government to charge outstation patients using public health facilities in Goa, health minister   said he will meet Maharashtra chief minister   on Wednesday to sort out the issue.

 The Goa health minister’s decision has seen some politicians in Maharashtra raise objections to it. “There is no going back on our decision nor is there a question of keeping the decision in abeyance. I’m confident of finding a solution to the problem, nonetheless. We don’t want the issue to be aggravated,”   told a press conference on Tuesday.
 
 His meeting with the Maharashtra chief minister, Rane said, is to “clear the air”. “Since, both the states are being governed by BJP governments, a solution will be found,” Rane said.
 
 “I will offer one or two suggestions to the Maharashtra government to resolve the issue by Wednesday evening,” said Rane, adding that he is open to signing a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the neighbouring state, but a face-to-face discussion has to happen to address the issue. Earlier this year, the Goa government started charging outstation patients visiting Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital at Bambolim and the two district hospitals at Mapusa and Margao. Charges were fixed for all kinds of treatments offered at the government hospitals, but with a rider that emergency cases and poor patients will be given free treatment.
 
 As much as 35 % of the total number of patients at the premier government hospital, the GMC, account for outstation patients from the neighbouring states of Maharashtra and Karnataka. Goa also has a high percentage of migrant population.
 
 Making his stand clear, Rane said he is the health minister of Goa and not Maharashtra and termed provocative statements made by Maharashtra leaders as “politically motivated”. As regards to reported statements made by   leader Nitesh Rane, the Goa health minister said, “It is not in the domain of Nitesh Rane to advise me or my government. He can say anything he wants. We will not budge from our decision.” Nitesh Rane had urged Fadnavis to speak to the Goa government over stoppage of free treatment to patients from Maharashtra who avail it at government hospitals in Goa. “We can’t compromise for their sake,” said the Goa health minister.
 
 About the alleged threat by the Maharashtra leader to hold a ‘Goa bandh’, Rane said, “Does he (Nitesh) think that he has bought entire Goa? This is not the right way to address the issue.”
 
 
