AMRITSAR: Even as Union human resource development (HRD) minister   was praising the Narendara Modi-led NDA government’s polices on completion of its 48-month rule in a private hotel here on Thursday, a little away Congress leaders were staging a dharna and raising slogans to protest against the continuous hike in prices of petrol and diesel.

 As expected, the Union minister praised   government’s 48 months of governance in comparison with the 48-year rule of the Congress. “We have brought transparency in transactions, eradicated corruption, done away with power brokers, the money which was earlier used to go to private hands was now going to government treasury,” claimed Javadekar.
 
 About half a kilometre from Javadekar’s press conference venue, Punjab Pardesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president Sunil Jakhar, who was leading his party’s demonstration, questioned why the rates of petrol and diesel were soaring when the price of crude oil was decreasing in the international market.
 
 He blamed the Modi government for making Rs 10 to Rs 12 lakh crore annually by not passing on the benefit of decreased prices of crude oil. He said that on May 31, 2012, the international price of crude oil was $ 104.09$ per barrel but diesel and petrol in India were being sold at Rs 40.91 and Rs 53.18 per litre, respectively. On May 25, the rate of crude oil had fallen sharply to 67.50 $ per barrel but diesel and petrol were being sold at Rs 69.09 and Rs 78.12 per litre, respectively, he said.
 
 Punjab cabinet minister Navjot Singh Sidhu said a sharp price hike in petroleum prices on consecutive days had made life of the common man miserable. He said the essential commodities were getting out of reach of the common man. “Petrol prices are going to touch Rs 100 a litre and the government had made a mockery of its people by giving one paisa relief,” said Sidhu.
 
 Punjab school education minister O P Soni advised the Modi government to take advice from former prime minister Manmohan Singh on reducing excise duty on petrol. “The central excise duty has been increased by 211% on petrol and 400% on diesel in the last four years, Prime Minister and finance minister can ask for advice from Manmohan Singh on how to reduce excise duty on petrol,” he added.
 
 
