As we step into April, the cruellest month — with its scorching temperatures and rising humidity — it’s time to plan our battle against the   heat. Sunglasses, sunscreen lotion and umbrellas are the best armour, but along with these external fortifications, you’ll also need to keep your cool internally. Staying hydrated is the key and also including different types of fruits in your diet. CT talked to people from different walks of life on how they beat the   and took their tips to help you get through the sweltering summer heat. Take note!

 
 
 It’s not the heat that bothers me but the humidity. Most of the time we shoot outdoors in this crazy heat. This can make you dehydrated very easily. So, more fluid out means more fluid in. I keep sipping fruit juices and they do the trick for me during summer.
 
 
 
 
 
 I religiously follow some basics like hydrating my body as much as possible. I make water my best friend during this time of the year. Having flavoured water by adding some fresh citrus fruits or herbs also keeps me going during summer. I ensure I cover my face up with a cotton scarf when I am going out and wear loose fitting clothes made of light fabrics.
 
 
 
 
 
 Excessive heat in summer disturbs the critical oil-water balance in the body. Too much of perspiration clogs the pores and exposure to the UV rays results in premature ageing, wrinkles and sagging of skin. I prefer using a water-based sunscreen with SPF 30 if I go out in the sun. When at home, I limit the intake of food high in saturated fats.
 
 
 
 
 
 A few things I follow to beat the heat is I drink lots of green mango juice and batasha soaked water. Also, I wear cotton kurtas or shirts and sport big shades all through summer.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 When I am practicing, I keep bottles of glucose or energy drinks with me and this keeps me hydrated. Remember, if you feel thirsty it means you are already dehydrated, so one must increase the intake of liquids during summer.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 I eat a bowl of yoghurt before stepping out of the house during summer. I think yoghurt keeps the body cool from inside. Also, I avoid bingeing on oily stuff or junk food during summer, especially when I am out with my friends.
 
 
 
 
 
