KOLKATA: The city saw contrasting approaches to ensure kids’ safety on Tuesday, a day after a schoolbus dashed into a state bus and injured six students. While pool car drivers stuck to their nonchalance and continued with their we-don’t-care attitude, police went on an overdrive to penalise offending carpools and buses to prevent any further accident.

 On Tuesday afternoon, around 20 students queued up in front of a maxi van that had a seating capacity for 10 kids in front of   at Kestopur. They were squeezed into the vehicle before the driver left with an overloaded car. Neither did it have any name card of the school nor did it display any emergency contact number written on the car. The  , in 1990, had asked the carpool owners to mention name of the school and phone numbers in yellow-and-blue strip on the vehicle.
 
 
  
  
 
 “In most cases, the owners of the pool cars and buses do not inform us if they change drivers. Under such a situation, it becomes difficult for us to ascertain experience of the driver,” said an officer from the Baguiati police station.
 
 None of the pool cars spotted on   on Tuesday had a first-aid box. Some of them were even plying without seatbelts. The drivers passed the buck on to parents, claiming it is becoming unviable for them to provide services at such lower rates. To keep the profitability intact, they ferry more students instead, they reasoned.
 
 School authorities, on the other hand, sounded miffed with pool cars and contract carriage services. “Since we do not run such services, they are not under our control. They stuff cars with as many students as possible. Rest are asked to wait in front of the school. Once a trip is over, they come back and pick the others up. We have alerted the parents, but nothing has changed so far,” said  , headmaster of Krishnapur Adarsha Vidyamandir.
 
 Police on Tuesday penalised at least 10 pool cars and school buses for flouting norms near Kestopur intersection. “We have called a meeting of pool car and bus operators on Wednesday,” said an official at the   commissionerate.
 
 
  
  
 
