Olympic medalist   and   champion   Kadian are almost the golden couple of Indian wrestling, and certainly the most accomplished. When the couple attended the  , there was a lot of verbal sparring in what proved to be a knockout of a session. The couple took part in a session with the students focusing on the struggles they face as professional wrestlers, their life as a wrestling couple, and who they would want to see in a biopic on their life.

  
  Sakshi Malik 
 
 Borrowing from her own life, Sakshi said the biggest impediment to developing a sports culture in India is the mindset that sports is secondary to education for children. The Rio Olympic bronze medalist said, "There needs to be a change in mindset in parents. Most parents still feel education is more important than sports and that is why several kids don’t get to participate in sports after a certain age. Till the time that mentality doesn't change, change cannot come." When asked what role does anger or aggression play in wrestling, Satyawart busted a common myth that wrestlers are generally hot-headed. He said, "People always assume that wrestling is all about anger and aggression. But it's so much more than that. There is technique, tactics, strategy, and aggression is just a small part of it." Sakshi added, "In fact, most wrestlers are quite gentle and calm. Shayad saara gussa mat par hi nikal jaata hai toh real life mein calm rehte hain."
 
  
  
 
  But the session was not just about the hardships they faced. Several students posed questions about their equation together and whether being from the same field helps. "It helps develop a lot of understanding because both of us know the pressures of the sport. It's good to have someone who knows what you are going through after a tough fight. That support helps," Sakshi said, talking about how their relationship helps their respective careers. The couple revealed that even though they were in the same school together, they didn't become friends until several years later. Satyawart recounted, "We are from the same town and even did our schooling together. But back then, we didn't even know each other. It wasn't until we went to Glasgow for the   in 2014 that we got to know each other and became friends."
 
  
  Audience at the   conclave 
 
  While Sakshi was a bit reserved in her responses, Satyawart kept the crowd in splits with his witty replies. When asked who they remembered or invoked while going for a fight, Sakshi said she fought in the memory of her late grandmother. Satyawart added, "Main toh bas   ka naam le kar chala jaata hoon!" As a student asked whether his parents objected to him choosing a fellow wrestler as his bride, Satyawart replied, "There was no opposition from their side. In fact, since my family has always been so big on wrestling, when I chose a wrestler, unki toh balle balle ho gayi."
 
 
 
  
 
