KOCHI: As the confusion over updating know-your-customer (KYC) requests sent out to Kochi1 card holders multiplies, the   ( ) said the   did not create any unauthorized bank accounts. 

 "It is a prepaid debit card and not a bank account," said KMRL spokesperson. The metro agency said Kochi1 cardholders could continue using the existing balance in the card though the deadline for updating identification proof for the transit card fell on February 28. 
 
 "If Kochi1 cardholders do not update with the valid documents, any further loading onto the card will not be permitted. This is as per the RBI guidelines," added the spokesperson.
 
 KMRL said travel information of the cardholders will not be shared with public. The metro agency said no bank account was opened in the name of commuters. As there is no account linked with the Kochi1 card, there is no need to link it with Aadhar as well, the agency said.
 
 The Kochi1 card holders had come out expressing their concern that their privacy would be compromised and their travel information was being shared with the Axis Bank.
 
 RBI is the regulatory authority for all banks and also governs the payment instruments. The RBI is the regulatory body for all payment instruments in the country, including those issued by mass transit systems, including Kochi1 card. 
 
 The process for updating the required officially valid documents (OVD) has been done through the online channel as communicated in the SMS by Axis Bank.
 
  "The bank prepaid card (co-branded) is being issued at KMRL premises. Any guideline as directed by the RBI would apply to the Kochi1 card as well and needs to be adhered to," said KMRL spokesperson. A recent RBI guideline mandates that the issuance and usage of all semi-closed prepaid payment instruments require customer's OVD details. In their absence, any further loading on the prepaid payment instrument will be disabled. Once customers update their OVD details, the loading feature will get re-enabled within two or three working days.
 
 The agency said the Kochi1 card is issued by Axis bank as KMRL has an exclusive tie-up with the bank. The entire automatic fare collection system is being set up by the Axis Bank consortium, both software and hardware.
 
 "The KMRL had put out a bid to tie-up with a banking partner to do automatic fare collection to save the capital cost and Axis Bank won it. So, for 10 years, the bank will be issuing the card and maintaining it," said the spokesperson.
 
 
