NEW DELHI:   said the   judgement putting checks on the implementation of SC/ST Act was a result of Modi government’s weak defence of the law during the hearing, accusing the ruling party of weakening the safety net for Dalits and tribals. It demanded that the Centre appeal against the court order.

 
 AICC president   tweeted, “The SC/ST Act is the most important instrument to prevent atrocities on Dalits/adivasis. A complicit Modi government failed to defend it in the Supreme Court. The PM must not abdicate his duty in favour of the anti-Dalit mindset of the BJP/RSS.”
 
  
  
 
 The party chief’s tweet came after Congress fielded its senior parliamentary leadership led by Ahmed Patel, Anand Sharma, Dalit face Kumari Selja and Jyotiraditya Scindia, to voice its hostility to the court order – becoming the first political party to come out against the judicial pronouncement with political implications.
 
 “There is serious concern over Tuesday’s decision of the SC. There is a feeling of insecurity among SCs/STs and other oppressed classes. We feel there should be a review of this decision,” deputy leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Anand Sharma said.
 
 Former Union minister Kumari Selja and chief whip in Lok Sabha Scindia alleged the development was a result of the BJP-RSS policy since they were “conspiring to end reservation”.
 
 The prevention of atrocities (SC/ST) act, popularly known as ‘Dalit Act’, has been a polarising subject for years. Non-Dalits -- upper castes as well as OBCs – have been claiming that it was being misused to harass them. A key demand of the massive Maratha ‘silent marches’ in Maharashtra last year was the scrapping of POA.
 
 However, champions of social justice have all along said the law was an armour against caste persecution in society. A strong argument in favour of the law has been the query if Dalits are the only community who file false cases and why such grievances are not heard with respect to other laws.
 
 Given the faultlines, opposing the court order runs the political risk of antagonising the vast anti-POA population across upper castes and OBCs. No wonder, nothing has been heard yet from political parties in UP or in other states.
 
 In this backdrop, Congress’s decision to come out with a categorical stance, seeking appeal against the SC judgement or amendment to restore the original law, is significant.
 
 Training its guns on the government, AICC spokesman   said the Centre weakened the case in SC. He said while the court issued notice to attorney general, it was not the top officials, AG or solicitor general, but an additional SG who appeared for hearings.
 
 Congress asked why were SC/ST parliamentarians of the ruling camp silent over the issue and challenged the   to spell out its stance.
 
