AHMEDABAD: The 188 persons on board a   flight had a heartstopping moment when a tyre on the rear wheel assembly of the   aircraft burst during take off at   (SVPI) Airport on Friday evening.

 Soon after the plane started accelerating on the runway, passengers reported to have suddenly felt several jerks and a blast-like sound, triggering panic. The plane, thankfully, came to a safe halt after rolling down the runway without one tyre for a while.
 
 
  
 Airport officials said runway operations were suspended after the incident as a precautionary measure. Seven inbound flights were thus diverted to nearby airports.
 
 Airport director Manoj   said there were 188 persons, passengers and crew-members, aboard the flight when the incident took place.
 
 “The SJ085 (SpiceJet) Ahmedabad to Bangkok flight, during take-off roll had a tyre burst on the runway at 19.28 IST. The runway is blocked. All 188 persons on board are safe and deplaned. Arrangements to tow the aircraft off the runway are in progress,” a statement from the authorities at SVPI said.
 
 Gangal said, “All airlines started a combined effort to help these passengers get service.”
 
 According to officials, four of the seven inbound flights were made to land at Vadodara airport, two were diverted to Jaipur and one to Mumbai.
 
 A SpiceJet statement said, “On June 1, 2018, Spicejet B737 aircraft VT-SLE was scheduled to operate SG 85 AMDBKK. During take-off roll there was a tyre burst after which the pilots brought the aircraft to a halt. Passengers were deplaned normally.”
 
 Jayesh Kotak, a city-based realtor who was headed to Bangkok on a vacation along fellow realtor and GIHED president  , said it was the scariest moment of his life.
 
 “As the aircraft started taking off, we heard a bursting sound from the rear and felt that a rear tyre had burst. It then felt like the plane was dragging along the runway. We feel like we got a second life after the incident,” said Kotak. One passenger shot a video soon after the incident in which a few passengers are seen arguing with airline officials.
 
 The runway was reopened at 10:40pm.
 
