PATNA: The state government has identified 81 black spots across   where major accidents took place in a year. However, as per the central government criteria, there are only 61 black spots across Bihar. The crime investigation department (CID) of state police has identified these spots for road construction department (RCD) and state transport department last year on the basis of the data based on road accidents.

 According to the rules of Union ministry of road transport and highways, black spots are those locations on the roads where at least five fatal or ten road accidents without any death took place within three years. However, Bihar government has made its own yardstick and marks as a black spot any stretch of road with ten accidents even without any death in a year.
 
 Muzaffarpur has the highest number of black spots (54), followed by nine in Patna, six in Vaishali and four each in Purnia, Begusarai, and Khagaria districts. Salimpur, R-Block, Punaichak, Jakkanpur bus stand and Income Tax roundabout to Kotwali stretch in Patna town besides Hathidah and   in the district are areas marked as black spots. For the town area, the length of a black spot is 200 metres, which increases to 400 metres for urban and 600 metres for rural areas.
 
 According to the data available with Bihar police headquarters, altogether 41,008 persons died and more than 52,000 were injured in around 77,000 road accidents across the state between 2010 and 2017.
 
 The black spots issue was taken up at a high-level meeting with CM Nitish Kumar recently after the ghastly Muzaffarpur   in which nine students were crushed to death by a speeding SUV while crossing NH-77 near Dharampur under the Minapur police station area on February 24.
 
 The CM instructed the departments concerned to construct road only after safety audit, broaden the roads and building underpass or foot overbridge to cross roads. District level road safety committees have been ordered to ensure all safety measures even if roads have been constructed.
 
 Apart from the death of nine schoolchildren, eight more persons died when a van in which they were travelling collided head on with an oil tanker on NH-28 near Keshopur Haat under the Sakra police station area in Muzaffarpur on March 8.
 
 Nine persons died as a speeding bus turned turtle on   embankment road under the   police station area in Patna district on February 19. On March 3, five persons died when the SUV carrying them after a cremation went off the road at a sharp turn near Lalpura village under the Bhadaur police station area in Patna district.
 
 
