Travelling solo in India comes with a set of dos and don’ts, which an Indian woman would only be too familiar with — do not trust strangers, do not eat or drink anything a stranger gives, and do not, under any circumstances, go to unknown places with them. But foreign tourists are not often familiar with these unwritten rules, as evidenced by the recent brutal rape and murder of the  . The woman, who was suffering from depression, was reportedly accosted by two local men who managed to coax her into accompanying them to a deserted mangrove near the Kovalam beach, where they raped and later killed her.
We speak to  , especially those travelling alone, if the incident has spread panic among them and to know if hospitality often assumes unholy colours in God’s Own Country.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The Latvian tourist lived in the cottage next to mine at the Ayurvedic Centre at Pothencode. I remember that she did not interact much with others. She and her sister didn’t talk to us even when we greeted them. She (the victim) was a reclusive person. I had felt that there was something strange about her. On the day she went missing, my friend told me that she had skipped the yoga session, citing a headache. It is really unfortunate, what happened to her.
 This is my second visit to Kovalam, after a gap of 16 years. I haven’t had any frightening experience but I would always ask tourists to be alert and to take care of themselves. Near the Kovalam lighthouse, there is a tea shop. One day, a man asked me if I was interested in ‘other substances’ besides tea. There are such people who approach foreigners to see what they are interested in.
 My advice to tourists would be to stick to the purpose of your visit. Do not open up to strangers in a foreign place and be very careful. Dress simple and safe, and never trust anyone completely.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 I was in Kovalam when I came across the ‘missing’ poster of the victim along the beachfront. I felt quite unsafe when the news came that she was dead. I felt much more aware of being alone by myself.
 My experience as a white woman in India has been mixed. I get a lot of men approaching me for all sorts of reasons; some for business reasons — that's what most people experience in India; restaurant owners trying to get customers, for example. But some take it too far and ask you to come to the beach at night alone or say, ‘come to my room’. A lot of men have asked me to accompany them. My friend and I were once approached by two young men roaming around late at night, who asked us to go with them to the beach. I got a bit cross and one accused me of being a “hard bitch’’. As a woman you have to be careful about who you trust and use your instincts. A couple of my friends have been to Kovalam to do yoga instructor courses. We are all a little older so maybe a little wiser. But I have seen many young white women walking alone late at night. They feel safe to do so, but I think it's a false sense of 
 security. 
 However, I wouldn’t say that has put me off or my friend from visiting India again.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 I had been to India once and was advised by an Indian male friend not to trust what any man says to me. And not to travel in a taxi alone, while I was in India. My yoga teacher also told all of us women to not walk around at night on our own. We made sure we were always in twos. Only once I had to walk back on my own after I had had dinner somewhere and I felt very nervous. I didn’t feel completely safe.
 I do not trust people and I would never ever go off with someone. I am deeply sad for the loss of the life of a young woman. It has made me more cautious. I’m coming again to spread my mother’s ashes. I am now rethinking my trip to see if my son can come with me or a close friend.
 But I know there are good people in India as well. I met some very nice people and the hotel manager and security were extremely helpful.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 During my trip to Kerala, I would often go to Varkala where I have friends and people there made sure we were okay. But one night there were a couple of young local boys asking us to go with them, saying what they would do to us sexually. Luckily, one of our local friends who was behind us chased them off. One morning, my friend and I were walking and a local guy stopped his motorbike and said he gave “beautiful’’ medical massages for free. We asked if he had a business card, he said no.
 As for Kovalam, I don’t think I would go there again. But it happens in European countries also. A girl got raped on a beach in Italy recently. Unfortunately, crimes against women happen a lot in India. I would avoid strangers at all costs anywhere but I do think a warning should be given to those coming for the first time.
 I think my friends will still go to Kerala. It won’t deter us from going. We will just be extra vigilant.
 
 
 
 
 I stop entertaining strangers, especially the local guides, if I sense a negative vibe from them. That is the best bet, or else you might end up getting fooled. I chose to visit Kovalam now as this is the off-season and the beach will be quiet and peaceful. I came to know about the death of the Latvian tourist through the English newspapers here. It is sad and I fear this incident may be a deterrent for foreigners like us to plan a solo trip here in the future.
 All we can do is use our brains and be bold if anyone disturbs us in any way. Never blindly trust the local guides and do a complete research about the place you are visiting before a solo trip. I never travel in a motorcycle with a guy who is a complete stranger.
 
 
 
 
 
 This is my first visit to Kovalam. I like the beach as it is calm and not so crowded. I haven’t had any bad experiences till now. The only thing I have noticed here is that the men don’t respect women. They are very rough when communicating with us. I am strong enough to respond with a ‘Don’t you dare to mess with me’ attitude. I feel that we have to show them how strong we are, otherwise they may exploit our politeness. Be strong is what I have to tell foreign women while travelling alone. Women are abused even in my country too, India is not the only one where this happens.
 
 
 
 
 The issue of tourist security is of topmost priority for Kerala Tourism. We will be working with the excise and police department to address such safety issues. Gender related offences are on top of the list in the tourism policy 2017. We will be setting up a Tourism Regulatory Authority Kerala (TRAK) this year itself. This body will take up any issue related to tourists and will act with the power of law. It will address complaints from tourists and also act against establishments like hotels which support illegal activities. Presently the tourism department does only promotion but TRAK will be a regulation agency. We wanted such an authority solely catering to tourists’ issues owing to the large number of complaints coming up. But we are not waiting for it to start functioning to act. There are tourism police at all the major destinations and their numbers will be strengthened.
 It is not practical for the tourism department to conduct awareness sessions for the tourists coming in as we are not the line of interface for them. But we will be conducting them through hotels and tour operators.
 
 
