NAGPUR: Even as dispersing tigers from   in Pandharkawda stand isolated, with its corridors cut from south-east side to   and Tadoba tiger reserves due to construction of   barrage and NH-7, wildlife mitigation measures are nowhere in sight.

 The Rs400 crore Channaka-Korata (Rudha) project on Painganga river, which stands to benefit Telangana, is 3.5km from the boundary of Tipeshwar, and falls in the eco-sensitive zone (ESZ). Hence, it has been approved by the Maharashtra government on the condition of implementing mitigation measures.
 
 There are 12 adult tigers and 18 cubs in Pandharkawda, including Tipeshwar. During a site visit on May 15, it was found that work on the barrage is in full swing without any mitigation measures. Superintending engineer   claimed that almost 50% of the work has been completed.
 
 “If all goes well, our target is to complete the project by January 2019,” Hussain said. On mitigation measures, he said it would be decided by both the state governments.
 
 Though Telangana government has taken the project on fast-track, as it envisages utilization of over 5 TMC ft water on their side, there is no talk of wildlife mitigation measures.
 
 Officials of one of the three contractors,  , said wildlife mitigation was not under the scope of their work. The work on the project started in April 2016 and has been approved by the state wildlife board (SWBL) headed by chief minister Devendra Fadnavis.
 
 The project was approved with the condition that user agency would deposit 2% of the project cost with Pench tiger conservation foundation (TCF) for habitat development, protection and conservation of wildlife in Tipeshwar. However, no funds have been deposited yet with Pench.
 
 Both the state governments seem to be delaying a decision on mitigation measures. This can be gauged from the fact that the project was approved in 13th SWBL meeting on January 31, 2018, when most of the project work had already started. Moreover, a 9-member expert committee to suggest mitigation steps was constituted on April 11, over 2 months after the project was approved. The committee is yet to visit the site to suggest mitigation steps.
 
 Project chief engineer K Bhagwanth Rao said, “Still lot of work on the project is pending. For three months during rains, work will be stopped. The project is far away from Tipeshwar. Yet, we will take mitigation measures like construction of ramps for wildlife as suggested by the expert panel.” 
 
 However, sources said Maharashtra forest officials are perplexed over taking a call when 50% of the works have already been completed. A section of officials have also visited the site.
 
 Member-secretary of the expert committee and Pench field director Ravikiran Govekar said, “I am in touch with the committee members for a suitable date to visit the site, which may be early next month.”
 
 Wildlife conservationist Prafulla Bhamburkar said, “It is great misfortune that NHAI was not forced to take any mitigation measures, despite the fact that four-laning was less than a kilometre away from   boundary. No underpasses have been constructed for wildlife near the sanctuary. Barrage, roads and mines completely isolate the sanctuary, causing man-animal conflict. Since 2012, 24 people have died in tiger attacks in Pandharkawda division alone.”
 
 
