Kanyakumari: Protesters and villagers opposing the proposed International Container Transhipment Terminal (ICTT) near Kovalam in Kanyakumari district have asked the district administration and the police to withdraw the cases registered against them in December. On Saturday 106 persons were booked for allegedly detaining and threatening district collector Sajjan Singh R Chavan and officials who visited Kovalam for the port project.  Thenthaamraikulam police registered a case under against 106 persons under sections 147 (rioting), 341 (wrongful restraint), 342 (wrongful confinement), 294(b) (use of obscene language), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 506(i) (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code. It was based on a complaint lodged by Village Administrative Officer (VAO) of North Thaamaraikulam TR Siva Ragul. The accused includes parish priest of Keezha Manakkudi John Benitto and former panchayat vice president Sahaya Kennedy. In the second week of December, the district police registered a case against 300 villagers for allegedly trespassing into government land and encroaching it. This case was registered based on a complaint lodged by Kovalam VAO P Jayakavitha. Legal advisor of People’s Movement Against Enayam ICTT S Stanly Casmic Sundar told TOI that it is undemocratic to book a case against persons protesting for a cause. According to him, there were more intense protests against the project at Enayam, before it was decided to conduct a study on the possibilities of shifting the project to Kovalam. “But no cases were registered against us (protesters). Now the state government has started registering cases against us on the instructions from the Centre. Such cases will not deter us from fighting against the ICTT project in this district,” he added. Further course of action on the cases will be taken at the next consultative meeting of the protests. Under these circumstances, it may be recalled that the district administration and Tuticorin VOC Port Trust, the nodal agency for establishing the port at Kanyakumari district, had earlier decided to organise a meeting with the stakeholders of Kovalam and nearby villages, this week. It is in a bid to elaborate on the project and to clear the doubts and fears that triggered these protests.