As Telangana turns four today, the state government has pulled out all stops ensure it will a birthday bash to remember. The celebrations will kick off with the ceremonial parade that will take place this morning at the Parade Grounds, after which an array of exciting activities like paramotoring,  , cultural performances, processions and human chains are on the anvil.   gives you a low down on the most happening gigs in town. So, mark your calendar right away! 

 
 This year, city folk can celebrate Telangana Formation Day doing cartwheels in the air, literally. All you need to do is to turn up at the Bison Polo Grounds to book a ride at the first of its kind paramotoring festival — ‘Telangana Formation Flight-2018’. “Ten expert pilots who’ve represented India in World Paramotor Championship will take part in the event and wow the audience with spectacular flag towing and flower shower displays,” says Tourism Secretary B Venkatesham. That’s not all. Adrenaline junkies and adventure sport enthusiasts can experience the thrill of paramotoring too. “We have organised joy rides for the public, who can avail them at a price of Rs 2,500. They will be guided by experts who will ensure the people will take-off and land safe,” adds Venkatesham. 
 
 
 The centrepiece of the festivities at People’s Plaza will be the illuminated 21-foot digital clock. “It will showcase 3D projections of iconic moments in the Telangana struggle along with interesting audio visual nuggets about the history and heritage of the State,” informs Harikrishna Mamidi, director, Telangana State Department of Language and Culture. The showstopper among the line up of events though, will be a folk carnival that is set to take place on Sunday. Over 1,000 folk artistes from Telangana will take part in a rally from   to People’s Plaza passing through NTR Marg and Imax circle. 
 
 
 The People’s Plaza will be the hub of activity for the next three days. It is the venue for the Telangana Food Festival which promises to be a gastronomical indulgence. Besides season’s specials like haleem, harees, kebabs and biryani there will be an array of Telangana delicacies like jonna rotte, golichina mamsam, pachi pulusu, gongura mamsam, natu kodi pulusu, pachipulusu, sakkinalu, sarva pindi attu, bagara baingan and desserts like qubani ka meetha, polelu, sheer khorma, you name it! 
 
 
 This year, 48 eminent personalities of Telangana will be honoured with Telangana State Awards for exemplary contribution in different fields. The awardees, comprising writers, painters, dancers, musicians, singers, doctors, journalists, photographers, athletes, civil servants, priests, scientists, farmers and social workers, will be felicitated with a cash prize of `1,00,116, a memento and a citation. Besides, 12 eminent citizens from each district will be honoured with mementos and cash prize of ` 51, 116.
 
 
 For the first time in four years, the Telangana Formation festivities will be witnessed in schools. “With schools opening from June 2 this year an array of activities have been planned in across 30,300 government and over 40,000 private schools. Essay writing competitions, photo exhibitions, poetry and painting competitions on the theme of Telangana will also be held,” says Harikrishna, adding, “We are also conducting a Balotsav to inculcate the spirit of Telangana in school children.” 
 A sum of `16,31,000 has been allotted to every district. The National Flag will be hoisted in every district Collector’s office and all Mandal Revenue Offices. A slew of processions and human chains will be organised to celebrate the Telangana Formation Day.
 
 
 A slew of cultural and literary programmes, short film festival, plays showcasing Telangana culture and identity will be staged at the Ravindra Bharathi. “ethnic dance forms like Perini, Gussadi, Mayuri, Kollatam et al will be presented by classical and folk artistes from across the state. On Monday, the play Gangu Natakam based on the eponymous novel on the Telangana struggle, written by Late Vattikota Alwar Swamy will be presented,” says Harikrishna. 
 The Paidi Jairaj Preview Theatre will be the venue for the short film festival Avatharana Filmotsavam, which will kick off today. Over 140 shorts made by filmmakers from all over the state will be screened at the event which will end on June 5.
  
 
 
 
