KOLKATA: The Barrackpore Cantonment Board (BCB), reportedly on a drive to inspect and demolish illegal constructions, brought down a 6ftx4ft wall of Modern English Academy on Tuesday, on a day the ISC Art Paper IV exam was held at the institute. The ISC biotechnology and Elective English papers as well as ICSE Hindi paper are slated for Wednesday.

 ICSE sources said the Barrackpore cantonment area had 27 schools affiliated to various boards. “The land is owned by the defence ministry and the Army had given an ultimatum to the schools to vacate. On Tuesday, a portion of the boundary wall of Modern English Academy was razed,” a source claimed. The bulldozing enraged the schools, leading hundreds of students at the institutes, their teachers and guardians to take to the streets, protesting against the demolition.
 
 
 According to the source, the heads of the 27 institutions there, including St Augustine Day School, Douglas Memorial School and  , had gone to meet North 24 Parganas district magistrate Antara Acharya on Tuesday. But before they could report the matter, they had to rush back on being told about the inspection. Councillor of Barrackpore Municipality’s ward 6 Tulilekha  , too, went to the spot. The councillor alleged, “The step taken by the Army is unjustified. We oppose it. They should have notified the schools first. Moreover, the matter is sub judice and the verdict is awaited.”
 
 The school authorities could not be contacted depsite repeated attempts.
 
 The Army, however, said it was not involved. “None of our personnel—either officers or of other ranks—was present at the scene. The BCB for long has been objecting to illegal constructions by a certain school within its jurisdiction. The Cantonment Executive Officer (CEO), a civilian officer under the  , tried to enter the school on Tuesday but was turned away. He alleged the people at the gate misbehaved with him and threatened him with dire consequences if he dared to enter the school. We reiterate, he was not accompanied by any Army personnel. He left the spot and reported the matter to the DM,” an officer at the Army’s Eastern Command headquarters in Kolkata said.
 
 After speaking to the BCB, the Army learnt the school, where trouble broke out, was registered as Bungalow No 34. “Every year, there is trouble when cantonment board officials go for inspection. These buildings were taken on lease from BCB as residential premises and then converted into commercial ones. On Tuesday, the CEO went to the school to inspect an illegal construction. The 6ftx4ft guard’s room was finally demolished,” the officer added.
 
  said she got complaints from both sides. “We are inquiring into it,” she said.
 
 The schools are ostensibly upset. “Such a move from the Army is a disaster for students. It is ridiculous Army has taken such a sudden step and that too, during the exam. Why should they evict students during an exam?” said Rammohan Mission principal Sujoy Biswas.
 
