 technical education minister Charanjit Singh Channi has taken on the tough task of making Punjab's youth skilled and employable. He tells Vibhor Mohan how he is facing up to the challenge.

 
 
 
 
 
 I am pretty satisfied with the reforms introduced by the   government for improving quality of technical education in the state. We have introduced the option of Punjabi medium. Till now, there were no books available in Punjabi. The department is now printing these for all courses. It will be a flexible system and the student can switch his medium of teaching at any stage. Punjab is the first state to have brought in industrial-friendly syllabus in the Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) and polytechnics.
 
 
 
 There has been a lot of opposition to the reforms. The initiative to check cheating in exams, directions to use biometric attendance system and install closed-circuit cameras on campuses did not go down well with a section of them… However, chief minister   has full faith in me. He has given me complete freedom to carry out reforms and there is no interference in the departments.
 
 
 
 That is the chief minister’s prerogative. But I am happy to have got the opportunity to do my bit for improving quality of technical education in the state. For me, there is nothing like a plum department.
 
 
 
 The government is already at it and entrepreneurship is the next thing on the agenda. For this, the government will be soon identifying skill development centres. Meanwhile, talent-based scholarships have been introduced for students who score 60% or above and their marks have been linked to the amount of scholarship.
 
 
 
 For the second phase, a dedicated portal has been created. Punjab’s industry has been involved in the exercise, besides cottage industry units. The number of applicants is expected to go up manifold and many more companies are showing interest.
 
 
 
 We hope to introduce a bit of IIT in each of our ITIs and polytechnics. With revision of syllabus, ensuring quality faculty, the employability and entrepreneurship of students will go up. We have already set the ball rolling and the functioning of technical institutes is being revamped with IITs in mind.
 
 
 
 We had promised unemployment allowance of Rs 2,500, but now we have decided to turn it into training fee plus incentive that would come to Rs 5,000, including skill development worth Rs 4,000 to the unemployed youth. The training would continue till the youths get a job. It may take six months or one year. We have set aside Rs 25 crore for the scheme and more budgetary allocation will be made in the upcoming budget. This way, my department will fulfill two promises of job creation and unemployment allowance. After job fairs, the next on the agenda is ‘Rozgar Melas’ for youth who may want to start their own enterprise.
 
 
 
 My coursework classes are going on and it gives me immense joy to learn new things. Earlier, I completed by bachelor’s degree in law, besides getting a master’s degree in political science and another master’s degree in business administration while pursuing politics.
 
 There was a controversy when you recently used a coin toss to decide posting of a teacher.
 
 
 
 There have been reports about your faith in astrology. Was it the reason you got an east-facing road constructed to your official residence?
 
 That is not true. Anyone who has been to this area would understand that there was need for such an exit for vehicles as one end of the existing road has been blocked for security reasons. If I go to work dressed like a common man, it doesn’t mean I have been guided by an astrologer.
 
 
 
 The party’s graph has only dipped over time. Even in the corporation elections in Ludhiana, they fared worse than the SAD. This, despite the fact that Ludhiana was earlier considered a stronghold of the AAP and where they are in alliance with the Bains brothers.
 
 
 
 The Congress government has failed to take the SAD-BJP’s agenda of skill development further. Former CM Parkash Singh Badalji had set up many of the centres, but now these are non-functional. The technical education department has only taken over the placement drives of the colleges and turned them into a government programme. The employment scenario has not changed in reality and the entire campaign of state-level job fairs is a farce to deceive youth in the state with false promises. The talk of reforms in the technical education institutes too rings hollow and the ground situation has not changed in any way under the Congress regime during the past one year. No new job avenues have been created by the Congress government and the promise of job for each household and push to entrepreneurship has remained unfulfilled in the past one year -- 
 
 
 
