Incensed by the insults actress   hurled at   for failing to rein his fans in, his elder brother   held a press conference. While his talk started off as one meant to “address some key issues pertaining to our film industry”, namely casting couch, middle-men and a work environment that’s not women-friendly, it eventually snowballed into a veiled threat to anyone who dares to question the ‘mighty’ mega family. While he didn’t take Sri Reddy’s name, he dropped enough hints to suggest that those who are slinging mud at his brother (Pawan Kalyan) better beware and better not test their patience. 
“Sahanani pariksinchoddu. When someone abuses our mother, even if we react, no one will blame us for it; everyone will support us. Who will keep quiet and bear it when someone vilifies their mother? We are powerful, so we are tolerating it. the one who said it is also a woman, so we are keeping quiet. In fact, my mother laughed it off and said, ‘poni le ra, ante annaru, issue close cheseyyandi’,” he said, ending with a punch line, “Silent ga unam kada mega family, veelanu ey raayi ichi kottina muskoni kurchuntaru anukovakandi. Ela react avutamo, etla react avutamo maakooda teliyadu.”
 Excerpts from the monologue where Naga Babu also spoke about other issues. 
 
 Not all of us look at women as sex objects. If it were so, I wouldn’t let my daughter work here
 This issue about casting couch that everyone’s been making a big deal about isn’t news to us. We all know it exists and we agree that it’s a disgusting issue. But today, there are so many laws that empower a woman. If anyone behaves indecently with any woman, she can go to the cops and get justice. Saying, ‘we won’t get justice’ is only your ignorance talking. The nation still has upright cops, good lawyers left. From within the industry, we are trying to do something, but can we change anything overnight? No! I’m dead against sexual exploitation of women, but what can I do? I am also just an individual. But I have seen that big banners; big movies have less of these issues. I would say, if someone dares to proposition take your chappal and hit him and go straight to the cops. that’s your right. But you can’t blame the whole industry. For 10 per cent that may be rotten, 90 per cent are good folks. If it wasn’t so, I wouldn’t send my daughter here! We don’t all look at women as sex objects. 
 
 It’s the women who should put their foot down and not give in to requests in order to get roles
 Casting couch exists not just in the film industry, but the TV industry too. But let me tell you, no matter what ‘CASH’ or other committees you form, unless women women don’t become brave enough to talk about it and put their foot down, nothing can be done about it. women have to fight for themselves. I have personally sometimes come across some people getting ‘free’ with some women. When I asked them why don’t they object, they said, ‘Sir, we will lose our roles...’ This has to stop. Those who are talking about casting couch are implying that all the girls working in the industry have compromised. Let me tell you today that they have not; they have gotten roles in a respectful manner. So please do not demean women like Savitri and Soundarya who have worked in this industry. Don’t vilify them for your personal interests.
 
 Pawan,  ,  ,  , Nagarjuna, NTR needn’t speak about every issue
 There will be issues, real and big ones, concerning the nation or the state that the big stars will choose to address. Pawan Kalyan, Chiranjeevi, Balakrishna, Venkatesh, Nagarjuna, NTR needn’t come out and address everything that someone thinks as an 
 issue. Also, there are a lot of issues that need to be addressed in the film industry, not just the casting couch. 
 
 Do you think we have no work other than controlling fans?
 When a certain woman cursed Kalyan Babu, I got angry. But before I could react, the industry and his fans did on our behalf. He did not say anything wrong when he asked her (Sri Reddy) to go report to the police. Adi tappu ela avtundi? Try not to sling mud on others, because mee chetulaki kuda antutundi. Pawan Kalyan said that balavantudike bharinche shakti untundi, balaheenudiki ledu. Silent ga unam kada mega family.. soft targets, veelanu ey raayi ichi kottina muskoni kurchuntaru anukovakandi. Ela react avutamo, etla react avutamo maakooda teliyadu. Maa sahanani parikshinchoddu. Fans will troll me for whatever I said today also; they’re the public and they'll react.   has already asked his fans not to react even if anyone speaks against us. He can’t keep asking them to not talk again and again. How’s it our responsibility if our fans troll someone? 
 You cannot character assassinate someone just because you feel like it. How can anyone talk against a man who is working for the good of the public? Atani nisabdam chetakanitanam anukovakandi. Mee andari doola teerustadu in the near future. (Don’t take PK’s silence as his helplessness. He will come take your case, each one of you.)
 
