HYDERABAD: In a move to put an end to water woes in   and Kapra circles, the Hyderabad Metropolitan   and Sewerage Board (HMWSSB) is burning the midnight oil to complete works on 21 service reservoirs. The plan is to commission the reservoirs by Ugadi (March 18) or this month-end so that residents can breathe easy and not worry too much on water tankers.

 
 Presently, colonies in   GHMC peripheral circles get water only once in five days. “We are planning to augment the supply every alternate day to all the colonies,” said a senior water board official. He said works are apace to complete the works and resolve the water woes in these two circles.
  
 
 Twentyfive residential areas in Kapra circle and 30 residential colonies in Kukatpally will be benefited once the newly-constructed reservoirs are commissioned. “Residents will get improved water supply and the reservoirs will come in handy to maintain the supplies,” the official revealed.
 
 
 Residents in the Kapra circle suffered for a long time due to the lack of a proper water supply distribution network and it was only after it was brought under the water board’s jurisdiction, the residents had something to cheer in the hope of an improved water supply system this summer.
 
 
 While Kapra suffered from an improper supply network, Kukatpally circle had to deal with shortage of water tankers. Each tanker used to cost Rs 3,000 and the residents were made to run around. “Dependency on the tankers will drastically come down once the service reservoirs are commissioned,” a senior water board manager told TOI.
 
 
 HMWSSB is expecting to add 20,000 new connections to the existing connections after the 21 reservoirs are put to full use. Senior officials said the board is also in the process of computerising the entire data of consumers in the two circles for issuing the monthly bills.
 
 
 The government is spending Rs 1,900 crore, taken from Hudco, on 56 reservoirs. Sixteen reservoirs in nine   circles have already been commissioned and water is being supplied to residents. “Work on 16 other reservoirs is at a brisk pace. We want to complete them by April-end.   for three other reservoirs is completed and work will commence by March-end,” an official added.
 
