DWARAHAT (ALMORA): Naresh  , a32-year-old   in west Delhi, who was on a trek from Pandavkholi to   in Almora district along with six other friends to celebrate the New Year in the hills, died after he slipped and fell into a 600-metre-deep ditch.

 Kumar, who took the fatal fall on New Year’s eve on Sunday, was an independent filmmaker. His body, which was recovered by a team of the   (SDRF) and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) after two days of rescue operations, was handed over to the family on Tuesday after the post-mortem was conducted.
 
 The team had left from Delhi on December 29 and stayed at an ashram in Pandavkholi, believed to be secret exile of the Pandavas in Mahabharata, the next day.
 
 Mukesh Kumar, a member of the trekking team, told  , “We were moving in the forests of Pandavkholi but we lost our way. We were searching for directions when Naresh slipped and fell into a ditch.”
 
 Kumar added, “There was no mobile phone network in the area so we were unable to call for help. We stood there helplessly for a long time. Some of us tried to look for Naresh but the ditch was so deep that we couldn’t see anything. After a while we left and were able to contact the local administration.” Fincha Ram Chauhan, sub-divisional magistrate, Dwarahat, said, “We sent a six-member NDRF team for rescue operations but the depth of the ditch made it difficult to find the body. Later, we sent 10 SDRF relief personnel to the spot.”
 
 Chauhan said that the route taken by the trekkers was not an official trek which made the rescue operations more challenging.
 
 The SDM said that the body was handed over to the victim’s family based in Khetadhar in Chaukhutiya block in Almora.
 
 Naresh’s friend Chetan Sahni told TOI, “We are shocked that a life with so much potential was snuffed out so soon. Naresh was to be married in March to a girl he had been dating for 10 years. We had been so excited about it.” This is the latest in a series of deaths of trekkers in the hill state. In the past four months, Uttarakhand has recorded six deaths of trekkers.
 
 On November 30, a 29-year-old trekker from Haldwani died after falling into a 150m deep gorge on Rishikund-Sajdhar trek in Chamoli district. Two more trekkers were stranded on the route and had to be rescued by an Army team.
 
