CHENNAI: The number of people affected by   in the state remains high since a spurt in   cases in 2017 that came after a six-year decline in incidence from 2010.

 According to data the state health department provided to the  , Tamil Nadu last year recorded an increase in prevalence of major mosquito-borne diseases — including malaria,   and  .
 
 But the jump in malaria cases is of particular concern to doctors because state health authorities tested nearly 6 lakh fewer people for the disease last year than they did six years earlier and still recorded an 18% increase over the number from 2010. Public health experts such as former director of public health Dr S Elango describe it as a trend that the state health department should not ignore.
 
 Doctors examined 20,15,149 people for symptoms in 2018, and 603 tested positive, with 39 of them having contracted an acute form of the disease. Health officials noted that the state had a slide positivity rate (SPR) — the number of laboratory-confirmed malaria cases per 100 suspected cases examined — of 0.29% in 2018 as compared to 0.06% a year earlier.
 
 Chikungunya cases rose to 113 in 2017 from 86 cases the previous year and health officials have already recorded 83 cases so far in 2018. Tamil Nadu records at least a dozen new dengue cases daily — more than any other state in the country — and one person died of the viral infection in January.
 
 However, director of public health Dr K Kolandaisamy, putting the incidence of malaria in perspective, said the state’s prevalence of the disease is less than 1 in 1,000 people.
 
 “We are nearing a stage of elimination of [malaria],” he said. “This year, in April and May, we did not record a steep increase in dengue or chikungunya cases, which is an indication that it is unlikely that there will be an increase during the monsoon.”
 
 The state has taken adequate precautions to protect the public from mosquito-borne diseases and has put in place various vector-control measures, Kolandaisamy said.
 
 “We have asked sanitation inspectors from local bodies to continue intensive campaigns to reduce mosquito breeding sites,” he said. “Entomologists in all districts also conduct frequent mosquito population surveys.”
 
 
