PUNE: Altogether 177 flyers on board a   were made to sit in the aircraft for over two-and-a-half hours after boarding because of a   late on Tuesday night.

 Airline officials said the passengers were asked to remain seated, following detection of the glitch, instead of being de-planed and taken to the terminal building as the process could have caused further delay. 
 
 The flight was supposed to take off from the Pune airport for New Delhi at 8:55pm. It finally left Pune at 11.30pm, leaving most of the flyers fuming. 
 
  
 “Superb experience. The flight was supposed to reach Delhi at 11:20pm but took off from the Pune airport at 11:30pm. And coffee and two biscuits are complimentary,” a passenger tweeted. 
 
 “Flight G8172 is halted at the Pune airport in the name of technical constraints. Please let us de-board,” another passenger said. “Now we don’t have any food in the plane and still we are in Pune airport. We want to de-board but no one is allowing to,” the passenger added. 
 
 A GoAir spokesperson said, “Flight G8172 (PNQ – DEL) was delayed due to a minor technical glitch. While the issue was being addressed, all passengers were taken care off and served refreshments on board. GoAir sincerely regrets the inconvenience caused to its passengers because of the delay.” 
 
 Though the spokesperson did not elaborate the nature of the glitch, he said the passengers left for New Delhi in the same aircraft.
 
 A passenger, who agreed to speak to TOI on the condition of anonymity, said the wait was frustrating. “The airline officials did not tell us anything at first about the delay. After quite some time inside the aircraft they said there was a technical problem. It is frustrating when you have entered the aircraft, taken your seat and are ready to fly but the flight continues to wait for hours,” he said. 
 
 “Some passengers lost their cool. Why didn’t the airline de-board the passengers and shift us to the terminal building? We could have waited there and move around,” the passenger said. 
 
 Air Marshal Bhushan Ghokhle ((retd) told TOI that it’s better to delay an aircraft than to put people in such a situation as safety was of paramount importance. H said, “With competition among the airlines being fierce nowadays, they tend to do what is called ‘quick turn arounds’. This means quick sorties. Many a times boarding starts without fully checking an aircraft and even refuelling.” 
 
 He added, “In most cases, nothing happens. But then in situations like that on Saturday, a big dialogue starts between the engineer and the pilot. In my view, if the pilot has pointed out about a problem in the aircraft, the passengers shouldn’t be allowed to board. In case of low-cost airlines, they generally don't offer any meals, may be only water is served. Keeping passengers seated on the flight for such long hours is definitely a problem.” 
 
 Aviation analyst Dhairyashil Vandekar said it’s unusual to keep the passengers waiting on the flight while addressing a technical glitch. “The fact that the glitch was identified only after the passengers had boarded is also quite unusual. Every airline follows a procedure before declaring a flight airworthy and ready for boarding,” he said.
 
 
