NAGPUR: After Malegaon, the All India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB) will be holding a women’s rally against the bill banning triple talaq in Nagpur. The   rally two days ago is estimated to have been attended by 70,000 women, all wearing hijab (veil). The organizers claim a much higher number, though. 

 In Nagpur, participation of 25,000 is expected at the rally planned on March 20, said  , convener of the event here. “The objective is show that Muslim women are satisfied with the Sharia law and do not want any interference in the matter,” said Ansari at a press conference held to announce the event 
 
 Before this, rallies have been held at   and Jalna as well. The rallies, which are being held throughout the country, will be organized in other districts of the region too, he said.
 
 Ansari said the board’s stance is that Islamic law has its own procedures for divorce. One cannot simply divorce a woman by uttering the word talaq thrice, so the government’s intervention in the matter is not needed.
 
 On the other hand, RSS backed Muslim Rashtriya Manch (MRM) has announced a pension of Rs500 per month for divorced Muslim women. MRM has supported the   government on the talaq law.
 
 The scheme, which was announced in February, is expected to launched in Nagpur by April, said Mohammed Farooq, state chief of MRM. The funds have been raised from private sources and the pension plan would be extended to other parts of Maharashtra too.
 
 Virag Pachpore, a senior functionary of MRM, said the scheme has been started on a primary basis in cities like Varanasi, Lucknow, Indore and Ranchi, covering 100 women. The move is not a reaction to the rallies by AIMPLB, he clarified.
 
 “It was found that maintenance granted to divorced women under present circumstances ranges up to Rs250 a month. Under the pension plan, the amount has been doubled. The scheme is totally funded by private contribution,” he said. A scheme to fund the education of children in custody of divorced women has also been launched, said Pachpore.
 
 
