MADURAI: A woman assistant professor working in a private college at   in Virudhunagar has been placed under temporary suspension after a group of girl students in the college complained to the management that she tried to lure them into doing sexual favours for higher officials of   to get marks and money. A   that took place on March 15 was recorded by the girls and has been doing the rounds in social media. The incident resurfaced on Sunday as a private Tamil news channel telecast the response of the faculty member to the complaint. 

 The girls, studying in the  , approached the college authorities on March 19 and complained about the faculty member who works in the mathematics department.
 
 The faculty member admitted that it was her in the conversation with the girls, but said it was wrongly understood by the girls.
 
 "There was no reason on record for my suspension from the college, but when we inquired we came to know that it was due to this (audio conversation) reason. They said the committee will investigate further, but they have not called me so far," she told the reporter on television.
 
 When questioned further about the conversation, she said, "I only spoke and I already admitted, but the message was not how it was understood by the girls.
 
 Meanwhile, secretary of the college R Ramasamy held a press conference on Sunday explaining the action taken by the college. He said the faculty member had gone to attend a refresher course in MKU on March 9. As soon as the complaint was received, she was asked to report back to the college. As soon as she returned on March 21, the suspension order was handed over to her.
 
 A committee formed by the college is conducting a probe and further action would be taken based on its outcome.
 
 When contacted, Virudhunagar superintendent of police M Rajarajan said they have not received any complaint so far.
 
 Vice-chancellor of MKU P P Chelladurai said, "I suspect the entire episode was stage-managed by the college management as I formed a committee 25 days ago to investigate misappropriation of funds in the college. We are planning to file a complaint on Monday," he said.
 
 
