Trichy: The protests seeking immediate implementation of the   order to constitute Cauvery Management Board ( ) have been assuming different dimensions with a section on Wednesday asking the general public not to pay tax. 

 Members of   headed by its district president M P   took out a procession around the villages of Athavathur, Somarasampettai, Allithurai and bazaars of the villages distributing pamphlets. They beat the ‘Thandora’ (beating parai) and appealed to the people to abstain from paying all kinds of taxes to the state and central government as a mark of solidarity with the farmers and opposing the Union government’s action of not constituting the CMB.
 
 Meanwhile, DMK working president M K   resumed the padayatra “to retrieve Cauvery”, which he started from Mukkombu in Trichy on April 7, at Nagapattinam on Wednesday. Addressing a gathering at Sembiyamathevi in Nagapattinam, he said that the Cauvery retrieval padayatra would end at Cuddalore on Thursday with a huge public meeting in the evening. “We will take out a massive rally on thousands of vehicles to Raj Bhavan in Chennai on Friday to meet the Tamil Nadu Governor to discuss Cauvery issue”, he said.
 
 Stalin raised apprehensions that all opposition leaders might be arrested on Wednesday tonight or Thursday morning to thwart the proposed black flag demonstration against Prime Minister Modi. “We are never worried about police action. The state government can never dilute the protest by arresting and jailing protesters. Each and every family is getting ready for the protest”, Stalin said.
 
 Police also arrested hundreds of PMK cadre for staging a protest pressing for the same demand across delta districts. Most of the shops and commercial establishments remained closed in Ariyalur as per the announcement made by PMK leader Dr Ramadoss. Police arrested a total of 70 party cadre who blocked trains at Trichy railway junction. Another 20 were arrested by the police in Thanjavur as they blocked  .
 
  Two students from Thanjavur Tamil University pursuing doctorate, V John, 30, and P Vignesh, 30, commenced a hunger strike on the premises of the university demanding CMB.
 
 
