JAIPUR: It has all the ingredients for a feel-good Bollywood potboiler. Six friends thrown together in the same coaching class bound by a common dream of acing the JEE-Main exam. On Monday, all six cracked the top 20 in the national level exam. For two years, Parth Laturia (AIR-3),   (AIR-7),   (AIR-11), Lay Jain (AIR-13),   (AIR-16) and   (AIR-19), lived together in the same   hostel, eating, playing and studying together. They met for the first time when they joined Allen Career Institute (Kota) two years ago.
 
 They soon discovered that more often than not, they were the ones with the right answers in class. Even their scores in weekly tests usually matched, which developed a common bond between them.
 
 “Living together like a family has not only helped us academically but we also became a support system for each other. At times when any one of us was under stress, the rest eased his stress by cracking jokes, singing songs and motivating each other,” said Bhaskar, from Juhu in Mumbai. Popularly known as ‘Maths wizkid’, he has won several competitions.
 
 “Since morning we were together waiting for the result. We were tense and nervous initially but at last celebrated the success together,” said Parth, who scored the highest 350 out of 360 marks in JEE-Main. He missed out on the first two slots due to the marking scheme which gives precedence to scores in Maths.
 
 All six were unanimous that their time together proved crucial in helping them grasp the more complex aspects of the   and Class XII Science syllabi. “Our policy was, ‘when in doubt, let’s discuss’. Other than discussing with teachers, we discussed among ourselves till each one of us understood the subject thoroughly,” said Singhal, from Paharganj in Delhi.
 
 The dedicated lads also made a conscious decision to shun social media with their WhatsApp group being the only exception for sharing information. Each of the six expects to score between 98 and 100 marks in the Class XII exam held earlier in March.
 
 The boys are now back to their books to replicate their feat in the upcoming JEE-Advanced test on May 20.
 
