CHANDIGARH:   cabinet minister Anil   escaped   as a youth hurled bricks at his car in   on Friday afternoon. Deepak Kumar and his accomplice friend  , who happens to be the son of a Haryana Police sub-inspector, have been arrested.

 A case has been registered against them at Panipat City police station. Superintendent of police (SP) Rahul Sharma has ordered a probe to identify the cops responsible for the security lapse.
 
 The accused come from Dalit families. Deepak (25) had dropped out of BA third year. His father has passed away and his mother works in a private factory. Amit is the son of a sub-inspector and had left college after he failed in BCom third-year exams.
 
 Both are unemployed, said Panipat SP, adding that they would be produced in court on Saturday and cops would seek their remand. 
 
 The incident occurred at 2 pm, when Vij was about to board his car, after chairing a meeting of public relations and grievances committee held in the mini secretariat. Amit broke the security cordon and Deepak hurled bricks at the minister’s car. Both were apprehended from the spot..
 
 Vij didn’t speak about the attack. He, however, said there was a major security lapse and police needed to probe the incident. “We have come to know that they did not have anything against us or the government. They did this as a mark of protest against the judgement of the  , which issued directions related to cases registered under Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act,” said Vij.
 
 Amit and Deepak were spotted near Vij’s car. His driver had occupied the seat and the minister was about to board the car after greeting officers and MLAs when the hurled bricks hit the front windscreen of the minister’s car. The driver was also unhurt and security guards on duty overpowered the accused.
 
 After a few minutes, Vij boarded the car of Samalkha MLA Ravinder Machhraulii and left for Haryana tourism guest house, where he had a meeting with SP Rahul Sharma. “We are interrogating the accused to know the circumstances in which they planned and executed the attack. We will seek their remand from the court. At the same time, deputy superintendent of police (headquarters) has been directed to probe the security breach. He will identify cops responsible for the lapse,” said the Panipat SP.
 
 
