NEW DELHI: A   has been launched by police for the rider of a   found in a   condition on   on Saturday night. The two-wheeler was apparently hit by a  , which was also found at the accident spot. Cops suspect the rider may have fallen into the Yamuna. There was no trace of him till late on Sunday and possibility of foul play has not been ruled out.

 No injured person or unidentified body was found around the accident spot to establish the identity of the bike rider or car driver. The bike, however, has been found registered in the name of Anshuman Puri (40), a resident of K-Block in  , a singer and producer of a music company based in Noida.
 
  
  
 When cops reached Puri’s house on Sunday, they found the door locked. Also, none of his family members have approached police with a missing complaint. The car was found registered to  , a resident of Goyla Dairy near Dwarka who now stays in Canada. The door of Singh’s house was also found locked, but neighbours told police that the car was being used by his daughter and son-in-law. However, no one could provide their whereabouts. CCTV footage from the flyway is being scanned to establish the sequence of events. 
 
 DCP (southeast) Chinmoy Biswal said that a case of causing death due to negligence has been registered at Sunlight Colony police station based on preliminary investigations. A team from NDRF and Delhi Boat Club has been deployed to look for the body of the rider in the Yamuna.
 
 Passersby reported about the Harley Davidson Street Rod 750 lying damaged near the railing of a bridge on the flyway around 1am. The car was parked nearby. The bike was rammed from behind and then dragged along with the car for a few metres. The front portion of the car was heavily damaged due to the crash, indicating that the driver may have been severely injured. A few plastic jersey barriers kept along the road were also damaged in the accident.
 
 Puri’s neighbours said he had been staying in the Sarita Vihar apartment for the past 14 years. He also owned a Fiat Punto car. During an occasional interaction, he had apparently told a neighbour about being related to a politician from Bihar. “He had told us that his parents had died in the past five years, but didn’t give any details,” said a neighbour.
 
 Neighbours added that they had seen a few people, including a woman and a child, visiting Puri, but never inquired about them.
 
 Cops said they are making efforts to contact someone known to Puri through his social media profile. Puri’s Twitter handle mentions him to be a producer. He has a website through which he invites people to join him for a music project.
 
 
