When I was a little kid, I had thrown a tantrum to accompany my parents to the voting booth, which was in Gubbachi School, Mysuru. I wasn’t allowed to go inside. But, watching my tantrum, the election official there had to carry me with my dad walking in and while he voted. I think my loud voice was helpful since then. I remember insisting to know who my father voted for. Unable to bear my tantrums, my dad gave me two amazing left hand flicks on my face. It was my mother who explained the idea behind the secret ballot voting system later. 
My parents were the correct, law abiding citizens and they would probably be the first ones standing in the line to vote back then. When I began voting much later, it is ironic that whoever I voted for never won the elections (laughs). 
 Today, the urban citizens are not just indifferent about the elections, they are indifferent to anything that concerns them on an individual level. Everyone lives with the idea that someone else will do something to correct it all and no one really goes down to get their hands dirty. No one wants to stand up and create awareness or protest or do anything for that matter. In fact, in many of the protests that are done by the citizens, keeping the larger good in mind, which I have also been invited to join, I’ve seen how small the numbers are. It think it is us who are responsible for everything happening in the country. I don’t think we can blame the politicians, bureaucrats or the police force. It is completely up to the citizens. If we let the people at their respective posts be so indifferent towards their jobs, the blame is completely on us. We are OK to come on the streets to celebrate a cricket match victory, but we aren’t OK to protest for our rights — like better roads, education or safety for women. It is our own apathy and indifference that is costing everything that the country is today. 
 Recently, my band members and I were debating on how we could get people to vote in the elections. A couple of the young band members are probably voting for the first time and they are excited about it. At the same time, I know for a fact that the larger section of their own young friends are not even bothered, saying who will go and vote. They don’t understand the importance of that one single process of going and casting the vote. I hope everyone wakes up to their own state as a citizen today and understand that their single vote is a step towards difference. If we all learn to get angry for the right reasons and not get offended for a movie instead, if we channel it in the right direction, we can change the country within no time. It takes a collective effort to do it. It can't be started by just one person. It is like a party, where everyone is waiting for the other to start the dance first and then they all join in. It will take a mass movement to bring any change, it is proven time and again — just like the farmers’ march in Maharashtra. Let’s begin with a small step and everyone goes out and casts his or her vote.
 
