Mumbai:   powerhouse   has joined  , an investment vehicle sponsored by   chairman emeritus   and the  , in a $51-million (or Rs 330-crore) financing round at home rental startup NestAway. TOI had first reported in its December 4 edition about the fundraise. While Goldman Sachs has invested around $19 million through its India and Hong Kong investment vehicle, in a mix of primary and secondary capital, UC-RNT put in $16 million. Existing backers   and   also participated in the funding.   is likely to have been valued at $180-200 million, but this was not confirmed by the company. 
 
 Goldman Sachs has invested in a select few tech startups in India like   and budget hotel brand  . It’s also an investor in companies likes  , ex-Godrej Consumer Products executive A Mahendran’s  , and  . 
  
 Chinese conglomerate Fosun had also discussed an investment in NestAway but those talks did not finalise into a deal. Founded in 2015 by Amarendra Sahu, Deepak Dhar, Jitendra Jagadev and Smruti Parida, NestAway takes a 10-12% commission out of the monthly rent it generates from the property owners in exchange for offering maintenance and upkeep. There is no brokerage that either the tenant or the owner has to pay in this model. 
  
 Having raised $43 million so far, it currently operates 15,000 such properties across 10 cities on its platform, clocking Rs 350 crore in gross rentals. The company, through the acquisition of Zenify last year, entered the family rental solution business. 
  
 Sahu, co-founder & CEO of NestAway Technologies, said, “With this funding, we shall strive harder to impact not only where people live but also how they live and shall work on community housing and student housing in addition to our existing categories.” Recently, the company introduced One by NestAway, which offers private and shared accommodation inclusive of utility services and maintenance, similar to what OYO is doing with its   platform. 
  
 Niladri Mukhopadhyay, MD at Goldman Sachs, said, “NestAway is at the forefront of using technology and a hands-on, customer-centric approach to solving complex housing market in India’s largest cities.” 
  
  
