AGRA
  A class VII student of a CBSE-affiliated public school in Aligarh was booked for allegedly cutting the wrist of a student of class IV with a blade while ‘ragging’ him. Three hostel wardens of the school have also been booked in the case.
 
  Talking to TOI, circle officer of   Sanjeev   said that a case has been registered on Friday under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapon), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of IPC against the 14-year-old accused student and three hostel wardens – Shiraz Khan, Ahmad Malik, Tayab (who goes by his first name). Dixit said further investigations are on.
  
  The victim’s father, an advocate in Patna, filed a police complaint against the student and the hostel warden. He claimed that he had received a call on March 1 from the school’s headmistress,  , informing him that his son had “severe and deep blade wounds” on both wrists.
  
  On being asked how it happened, the boy revealed that a day earlier, a class VII student had asked him to polish his shoes and when he refused to do so, had attacked him with a blade.
  
  “When my son complained to the hostel wardens, they scolded him and asked him to keep quiet about the incident,” the boy’s father told TOI. He further said that his son told him that wardens had asked him to write on a paper claiming that he had cut his own wrist and no one was responsible for it.
  
  The father said, “His wounds were noticed by the school teacher and the headmistress. My son was so scared, he was not ready to go back to the hostel from the school. I had earlier also filed a police complaint but no action was taken then.”
  
  Media coordinator of the school   said that the allegations were baseless. She said, “The class IV student suffers from depression due to family issues and he doesn’t want to stay in the hostel so he made these allegations against the senior student and staff.”
