
 
  When   announced Nirav Modi’s loan status, the nation was taken by shock. And here in Bengaluru, 17-year-old Rishabh Harjani immediately went to check whether his mutual fund portfolio included the   stock as a part of its exposure. “I was concerned whether any of my funds were going to be affected,” says the class-12 student amidst his board exams.
  
  “I found that there were only two funds and it didn’t make a difference. Only 20 per cent of it was in the financial sector. Most of it was in HDFC and it went down by a rupee. Hence, I did not withdraw,” he says.
  
  Meet teenagers like Harjani, who have taken a keen interest in the world of financial invesment. Even as the older folk worry about GenY being frivolous about money, on the contrary, youngsters in the city are being more than cautious.
  
  Harjani, for instance, has been investing in mutual funds since class 11. Ideally, he would have liked to dabble in the stock market, but he’s waiting until he turns 18. “My parents weren’t comfortable with the idea. While investing in mutual funds, there’s really not much of a risk element because your money is being handled by professionals,” he says.
  
  While others his age may use their time browsing through social media, Shlok Kumar Jain goes online to take a look at the market situation. The 14-year-old recalls a time when shares for a German MNC he had invested in, completely crashed. “I freaked!” he says, adding, “I ended up selling them because I didn’t want to make a further loss. I had already lost Rs 15,000.”
  
  That was the only time, Jain says that he lost his money, and composure. A careful investor, he has learnt the tricks of the trade from his father, an avid investor himself. He’s learnt to read balance sheets, and carefully examines quarterly results of the companies that interest him. “Since my dad has lost money in the stock market, he tells me what to do and what not to do,” says Jain, who has been investing in the market since December 2016 and invests Rs 1-2 lakh on a monthly basis.
  
  
 
  
  While Jain’s concerned mum had in fact banned him from investing for a year and often worries that it will distract him, his conscientiousness made her re-think her stand. For Gehna Manglani (18) and sisters Ayman (17) and Zoya Junaid (15) their mums have been fairly encouraging. By the time Manglani was 18, she had accumulated Rs 1 lakh. At the same time, she attended a workshop by BishnuDhanuka (he set up Millennium Mams’, a programme that disseminates investment information particularly among home-makers). After the workshop she realised that investing the sum could yield higher returns than keeping it in the bank. “After the session, Mr Dhanuka asked me to go back home and look around my room to see what products I use the most. I went back and said - the toothpaste and the razor,” says the 18-year-old design student recalling an incident that took place 1.5 years ago.
  
  In August 2017, Gehna made her first investment in  , where she owns 20 shares (at the rate of Rs 4,600 per share), after which she went on to buy shares of Bajaj. From her homework and analysis she found that these companies were sturdy and investing in them meant that she could sit back without worrying. “Ten years down the line, they are still going to be doing well,” she says.
  
  Ayman and Zoya may be new to equity, but are no strangers to investing. After putting aside money for the last two years, they currently own 2,000 sq ft of a plot in Hosur. It all started off with a conversation Ayman had with her mother in junior school. When she told her the importance of saving, a young Ayman’s first question was, “But, why?””So that you can buy a house,” her mum said. To which Ayman responded: “We already have a house. And later I’ll move into my mother-in law’s house.”
  
  Many years later, when Ayman and Zoya’s dad was selling a piece of land for about Rs 57 per sq ft, their mum suggested that maybe they should start buying it themselves. “I started thinking about it and realised that shoes and bags can wait. What’s really going to help in the long term is some investment in land,” Ayman says.
  
  
 
  
  Jain looks up to Warren Buffett, who started investing at the age of 11, and Rakesh Jhunjhunwala. After looking up the reputation of the company, he looks into its growth, revenue, dividend rate, reputation with public and media, profit, after which he monitors the stocks he’s interested in purchasing for a couple of days. “I wouldn’t invest in a company that has made losses in the last four quarters,” he says.
  
  For instance, after a school trip to Monsanto, Jain got interested in investing in the agriculture-based company. “I saw the potential the company has. The agricultural sector is always in the news and an investment there makes sense. It’s a stock that’s an underdog but I think it’s worth it. I’m still discussing it with dad,” he says. 
  
  After two bake sales held by Ayman and Zoya, they found themselves with Rs 30,000. “Instead of it leaving it in the bank, we thought we could invest it in a plot where I can later have a huge farmhouse,” Ayman says. Considering that it had water resources and good connectivity, they felt that the piece of land was worth their money.
  
  
 
  
  Harjani invests Rs 50,000 every month. While a bulk of it is his parents’ money, cash presents are also put to good use, and the returns are re-invested. His portfolio under his mother’s name which he “takes care of completely” with advice from his father, includes 16 different funds including SIPs of Aditya Birla Sunlight and an SBI blue chip. “I put in Rs 5,000 in the first fund but later reduced it to Rs 2,500. Along the way I also figured that SIPs are better as a long-term investment...the returns increase with time...while the average rate of interest for six months is 8-10 percent, here with SIPs it’s about 18-20 per cent for two years,” he rattles off.
  
  In December last year, the sisters decided to invest in some stocks and shares. So far, they own 20 shares in Tata Chemicals. “We’re just testing the market. Mum has said that ten years later we’ll be able to figure out whether the land or stocks and shares was a better investment,” ninth grader Zoya says.
  
  Every month, Manglani puts away anywhere between Rs1,000 and Rs6,000 towards investment. “I also put away a bit of my monthly allowance which I plan to invest, once it accumulates,” she says.
