PATNA: Litigants and advocates in the state capital are facing harrowing time due to short supply of red franking ink used in printing judicial stamps for legal works. The ink is imported from Germany.

 Patna civil court sources said the franking machines on court premises stopped printing stamps at 9.30am on Tuesday due to shortage of the ink. The machines were also shut at 10am on Monday. Several litigants are either running to the Patna high court for getting judicial stamps or postponed their works at least for a day.
 
 Advocate Rashid Zafar said franking machines at civil court did not function for three consecutive days last week due to ink shortage. “We face the judges’ wrath for filing the petitions late,” he said, adding the ink problem has been there for the last two months.
 
 Advocate Vikram Jha said filing of bail petitions or getting certified copy of any court document is getting delayed due to non-availability of ink. “Advocates and their clerks as well as litigants queue up at   windows early in the morning due to shortage of stamps,” another advocate Mukund Kumar said.
 
 A franking machine vendor at the high court told TOI on Tuesday that the problem has been persisting for the last two months. “We are being told that regular supply of the ink will start within a week,” he said.
 
 When contacted, principal secretary (home, prohibition, excise and registration) Amir Subhani said he would take up the issue with inspector general of registration Aditya Kumar Das. “We are also planning to change the entire process so that imported ink for franking machines will not be required,” Subhani said.
 
 The ink to courts in Patna district, including the high court, is supplied from the office of Patna sadar district sub-registrar. Patna sadar district sub-registrar Satyanarayan Choudhary told TOI over the phone that franking machine at Patna collectorate has been non-functional for the last one week due to ink shortage. “Ink supply has been erratic for the last one-and-a-half months,” he said.
 
 “I can’t tell exactly about the reasons behind short supply,” Choudhary said, adding private firms import and supply the ink to the government. He said ink supply to the high court was being maintained somehow from other districts. 
 
 “Even the ink reserved for the high court has also exhausted,” he said, adding 15 ink cartridges were procured three to four days back for the high court. He said the high court and Patna civil court have four franking machines each, while sub-divisional courts at Danapur, Barh, Patna City and Masaurhi have two franking machines each. He said the high court and Patna civil court require at least four cartridges of German ink each working day.
 
 
