NEW DELHI: The Centralized Counselling for Master of Technology,   2018, schedule for counselling based GATE 2018 results have been released by the   (NIT), Delhi, on its official website – ccmt.nic.in. 

 
 Through this exam, qualified students will get admissions in to various Post-Graduate courses offered by the   (NITs) and several other institutes like IIITM Gwalior, PDPM IIITDM Jabalpur, IIITDM Kancheepuram, IIIT Vadodara, SLIET Longowal, NIFFT Ranchi, SPA Vijayawada, PEC Chandigarh, IIIT Allahabad, Central University of Rajasthan, University of Hyderabad, Central University of South Bihar Patna, Shri Mata Vaishno Devi University Katra and IIEST Shibpur. 
 
 As per the notification the counselling for centralized admission to postgraduate programmes in all the above mentioned institutes will be starting from 1st week of April 2018.
 
 The online registration and fee payment is scheduled to start from April 3, 2018.
 
 GATE 2018 Counselling will be held in three rounds through online mode. The candidates will be allotted seats on the basis of merit list (based on GATE Score) and availability of seats as per choices filled. 
 
 The GATE 2018 results were announced on March 16, 2018. The CCMT 2018 counselling process will be conducted till July 2018. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Candidates will have to register themselves in the official CCMT website and pay the registration fees. The registration fee of Rs 2200 can be paid online using credit/debit card, net banking or through SBI MOPS. Only after the fee payment, candidates will be able to fill their choices of programmes and can lock their filled choices.
 
 
 
 The seats will be allotted on the basis of merit list and choices filled. After seat allotment, candidates will have to deposit Rs 20,000 against the seat acceptance fees. Now the candidates will have to report personally to the reporting centre as per their respective schedule. 
 
 
 Candidates will have to pay Rs 10,000 for seat confirmation. Now the candidates can download their provisional seat confirmation letter from the official website and can report to the allotted college with required documents for taking the final admission.
 
 
 
 All the original documents along with three passport size photographs would be required at the time of counselling.
 
 
 
