In the latest episode of 
 , Ruhi vows to seek revenge for Vikrant's death. The story takes a six-month leap. Andy has almost finished designing the temple. Both of his sons are to get married at a venue near the temple. He seems tensed thinking that both of his wives were going to be there at the same time!

 Andy's sons seem a little tensed thinking that the wedding venue was near the doomed temple. They go to a hotel nearby and get drunk. The temple bells start to ring loudly, scaring them.
 
 Andy's wives Poulomi and Sumitra arrive at the venue where the media is also present. The media starts to ask them questions about their personal life, putting them in a fix. Sumitra storms off from the venue. Andy follows her. Poulomi gets jealous seeing them together and both the wives end up having a fight over him.
 
 Sumitra goes to her room where she spots a rope and screams in fear, thinking it is a snake. Yuvi makes fun of her and says he brought the rope along for Bela, his fiance.
 
 Bela (
 ) enters the scene. She slips on the floor and drops her stuff. Her father helps her. They both share an emotional moment as they recall how Surbhi agreed to marry Yuvi so that Andy would waive off her father's debt. Bela's father asks her to get ready and wear something nice as she was getting married into a wealthy family.
 
  
  
 Just as Bela is getting ready, Yuvi barges in and tries to force himself on her. She asks him to let her get ready. Yuvi goes away, leaving the rope in her room.
 
 Yuvi finds out that a certain 'Vish Khanna'(Vishkanya) had booked all the good suites in the hotel because of which Bela and Suhani, the other bride had to share the room. He decides to settle the issue with Vish himself, thinking that the latter (Vishkanya) was a guy.
 
 Vishkanya (
 ) enters, leaving Yuvi shocked. She asks him to get her stuff in the room thinking him to be the hotel staff. Yuvi invites her to a party later in the evening.
 
 We also learn that Suhani's dad is against her wedding to Pratham, who is Andy's illegitimate son. Bela helps in their union and convinces his father to get them married.
 
 Vish gets ready to kill her first victim at the party. Sumitra looks at Bela and says that Yuvi was lucky to have her in his life. She tells Bela that she was like a daughter to her and tells her to pursue her career after the marriage.
 
 She then introduces Bela to Mahir (Pearl V. Puri), who is very charming and kind, completely opposite to Yuvi's character.
 
 Yuvi flirts with Vish at the party. Sumitra and Bela are taken aback when he chooses to dance with Vish and not Bela at the party. Mahir sees Bela looking upset and offers to dance with her.
 
 Mahir asks Yuvi to pay attention to Bela at the party. Vish walks away and asks Yuvi to meet her outside later. Bela's father too remains tensed about the marriage but Bela calms his down.
 
 
 
 
 Vish lures Yuvi to a secluded place in the forest nearby. She hides behind a tree. As he searches for her, Vish emerges as a snake. Yuvi gets scared and tries to run away. Vish follows him. He reaches the venue where Mahir scolds him for leaving Bela alone. Vish takes her human form again and follows Yuvi. One of his friends tries to get intimate with her forcefully. She transforms into a snake and attacks him.
 
 Bela and Yuvi get engaged and during the ceremony, the ring falls in the pool. In another scene, Yuvi's friend gets killed. As she goes to get the ring back, she sees the dead body in the water and screams.
 
