GURUGRAM: Nearly 650 students of nine schools gave their Class 10 Haryana board exam sitting on the floor of Government Senior Secondary School, Darbaripur, on Thursday. 

 Bending down to write the answer papers would have been uncomfortable but there was a “support system” on the other side of the fence for anyone who wanted it. 
 
 Nearly 200   gathered outside the school compound, and some climbed the perimeter wall as well, hollering answers and throwing chits, tied to stones, into the compound. 
 
 Principal D P Katharia said, “I noticed the youths standing on the wall after the exam started. The school authorities have approached the police, requesting them to deal with the situation strictly.” 
 
 When the answer chits were shown to the block education officer, who is part of the flying squad keeping a check on the students, she appeared helpless.   said, “Throwing chits is not acceptable. I have told invigilators to keep a strict eye on students.” 
 
 The four cops who were stationed at the exam centre seemed equally helpless. One of the cops said, “What can we do? These youths don’t listen to us. If we use sticks, all child organisations will come after us.” 
 
 ACP Barem Singh visited the school for an inspection as the students were finishing the exam. The policemen ran after the troublemakers to scare them away. Chaudhary has requested area SHO Vishnu Prashad to provide more security personnel for the school. “I myself went on a patrol around the school. These youths keep coming and going but with more cops, we can ensure that they can’t stand near the school,” Singh said.
 
 Virender Singh, sarpanch of Darbaripur, said, “These youths are outsiders, not from this village.”
 
 The school is, meanwhile, making students sit on the floor to give   which has been a recurring occurence in Haryana schools. Katharia said, “We don’t have enough benches for all students. The school has 120 benches and even if two students sit on one, 240 can be accommodated. So, we kept the benches outside and ensured all of them sat on the floor. I know this is against the rules but there is nothing I can do.”
 
 Vinod Malik, the observer at the exam centre, said, “The disturbance is so much that students are finding it difficult to write exams. On top of that, making them sit on the floor is not acceptable.”
 
 
