Madurai: R Santhanam, the one-man inquiry panel set up by governor Banwarilal Purohit to probe the Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) sex scandal, will meet Nirmala Devi, assistant professor of Devanga Arts College, Arupukottai, at the Madurai central prison on Thursday morning. 

 Santhanam who began his second phase of inquiry on Wednesday, told mediapersons late in the evening that he had received permission from the prison authorities to meet Devi who was arrested on April 16 for allegedly trying to lure some girl students to do sexual favours for higher officials. Meanwhile, MKU assistant professor V Murugan, who was arrested by CB-CID in connection with the sex scandal, was sent to five days’   on Wednesday. In another development, a former research scholar at the university, Karuppasamy, who was wanted by the CB-CID, surrendered before the Judicial Magistrate V, K S Shabeena, in Madurai who remanded him in prison.
 
 Murugan, who worked in the department of management studies, was arrested on Tuesday and produced before the Sattur judicial magistrate II. He was lodged in the Virudhunagar prison at night and produced by CB-CID again in court on Wednesday to seek his custody. Murugan was arrested as his name cropped up in the interrogation of Nirmala Devi during her five day CB-CID custody which ended on Wednesday. She too was produced before the court and lodged in central prison as the court ordered her judicial remand for 15 days. 
 
 On Wednesday, Santhanam took statements from various higher officials of the university including vice-chancellor P P Chellathurai and registrar V Chinniah. Additional controller of examination M Rajarajan and director of UGC Human Resource Development in MKU, V Kalaiselvan, also appeared before the committee. 
 
 Joint director of collegiate education, Madurai, K Koodalingam, who appeared before the panel, told mediapersons that he was not informed by Devanga Arts College about the complaint of the girls and that he was apprised of it as well as the suspension of Nirmala Devi only after the issue flared up. Kalaiselvan told mediapersons that they refused to relieve Nirmala Devi, who was attending the refresher course, since those attending the course would be under the direct control of UGC which sponsored it. It was a mistake on the part of the college to have placed her under suspension as they could not do it in this case. 
 
 He also said that 405 faculty members expressed willingness to take part in the refresher course conducted between April 9 and 29 out of which 292 attended.
 
 Meanwhile, a city-based lawyer, S Muthukumar, submitted a petition to the panel urging it to check the age of the victim girls. If they were less than 18, a case should be registered under Pocso act, he urged the panel.
 
 
