JAIPUR: With D B Gupta being put at the helm of bureaucracy as new chief secretary, the state government effected a major shake up in the administrative set up across   on Tuesday. Eighty one IAS officers from the ranks of additional chief secretary (ACS) to the district collectors have been relocated in a top to bottom reshuffle.

  
 
 Four divisional commissioners and 16 district collectors have been changed, besides making reshuffling the top bureaucracy.
 
 ACS Mukesh Kumar Sharma has been moved from UDH department to the finance department, which was relinquished by Gupta on becoming the CS. ACS Pawan Kumar Goyal has been shifted to UDH from the general administration department (GAD). The panchayati raj and rural development’s ACS Sudarshan Sethi, who had reportedly run in with his minister Rajendra Rathore, has been shifted to the  .
 
 Dr Subodh Agarwal, under whose short stewardship of the forest and environment department reported many tiger deaths in Ranthambore National Park and Sariska Tiger Reserve, has been shifted to the department of higher and technical education. ACS J C Mohanty has been stripped of the department of social justice and empowerment and has been given the information and public relations department in addition to the departments of tribal affairs, youth, sports, women and child development he was handling.
 
 ACS Khemraj Chaudhary has been shifted from revenue to fisheries and animal husbandry. He will also hold the additional charge of chairman of the Rajasthan co-operative dairy federation.
 
 Rajhans Upadhayay, who was holding the post of managing director of Rajasthan Warehousing Corporation, has been shifted to the post of chairman and managing director of Rajasthan Roadways.
 
 Kuldeep Ranka has been shifted from the post of managing director Roadways to the post of principal secretary department of forest and environment along with tourism.
 
 Another senior IAS Ravi Shanker Srivastav has been shifted to the department of Sanskrit education from departmental inquiry. Senior to the chief secretary D B Gupta, his promotion has been held up due to a corruption case. 
 
 Divisional commissioner Jaipur Rajeshwar Singh has been replaced by T Ravikant. Rajeshwar Singh has been shifted to post of principal secretary panchayati raj and rural development.
 
 Kunjilal Meena, secretary, industry and corporate social responsibility, will be the new commissioner panchayati raj.
 
 Rakesh Kumar Yadav chairman and managing director Rajasthan Cooperative Dairy Federation has been shifted to the post of secretary labour, skill and entrepreneurship replacing T Ravikant. Rohit Kumar secretary panchayati raj has been shifted to the Home while Manish Chauhan secretary home has been given the responsibility of Science and Technology department. Ajitabh Sharma, secretary of animal husbandry, has been transferred to the revenue department. 
 
 
