While the number of deaths due to road accidents across Tamil Nadu have come down to 15,938 in 2017 from 17,130 last year, casualties in Chennai - from 1,175 in 2016 to 1,301 in 2017 - have gone up by more than 10%, reports A Selvaraj. 

 While effective deployment of highway patrolling teams, stationing of ambulances at vantage points, coordinating with nearby hospitals, better illumination of highways and rectifying road engineering faults with the help of other agencies have brought down the death rate in the state,  ,   without helmets and driving cars without seatbelts are the major reasons for the rising fatalities in the city, police sources said.
 
 Tamil Nadu has the dubious distinction of being a state with very high road accident fatalities. And while the numbers remain high, they have dropped by around 7% since 2016.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 The number of deaths due to road accidents has come down from 17,130 in 2016 to 15,938 in 2017, according to   (STPC) data.
 
 “We have not achieved this within a day. The entire Tamil Nadu police department worked hard to bring down the deaths on roads due to accidents,” said director general of police   who has taken up the initiative to make roads in TN safer.
 
 Effective deployment of highway patrolling teams, stationing of ambulances at vantage points, coordination with nearby hospitals, better illumination of highways and rectifying road engineering faults with the help of the agencies concerned are being cited by the police department as reasons for a reduction in the number of casualties.
 
 To ensure plans fall in place, senior police officers have been conducting regular reviews at the district level and sending detailed reports to the headquarters. Director of   and other officers worked on detailed plans to make roads safer.
 
 “It is a meticulous process. We prepared a chart for the entire state and marked the accident zones on a computerised map with exact coordinates. We merged 10-year data and tried to form one road map for the state,” said a senior police officer.
 
 The data helped police chalk out a pattern on particular stretches. “We found that ill-lit stretches were more accident-prone. Likewise, engineering fault is also a reason for accidents on certain stretches,” said the officer.
 
 Officers in respective districts were assigned to resolve the issues in coordination with the highways department, Tamil Nadu Road Development Corporation and National Highways Authority of India. “We found that some accident victims lost their lives as they didn’t get   during the‘golden hour’,” said an officer.
 
 Police have tied up with the ‘108’ ambulance services and private ambulances, assigning a team of paramedics to the emergency vehicles to attend to victims. “The lower numbers don’t mean that fatal accidents have come down, but police saved the lives of 1,192 people. We will try to bring down the deaths further in 2018,” said Rajendran.
 
