CHANDIGARH: For the convenience of the residents, the Chandigarh administration should speed up the implementation of the citizen charter which was constituted of all the departments.

 
 Raising a matter with the UT adviser, the Federation of Sectors' Welfare Association of Chandigarh ( ) raised an issue that there should be implementation of the citizens charter in all government offices to get time-bound services.
 
 Interestingly, for majority of the public dealing departments, the authorities have drafted the citizen charter which has also been uploaded on the Chandigarh administration’s website.
 
 But most of the departments are yet to act upon it and follow the charter.
 
 In a communication sent by the federation to the UT adviser   on Wednesday, J S Gogia, general secretary of the Foswac stated that after a lot of follow up, Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) and   declared some services in the past.
 
 But, the same did not yield any tangible results due to half-hearted approach in implementation. He said that the authorities should speed up this agenda of implementation of citizen’s charter in all departments so that people get time-bound services and are not subjected to the discomfort of waiting for long periods of time to get their work done.
 
 Referring to the estate office department, the association raised an issue that the processing of files is selective as a result of which the projects progress very slowly.
 
 Resultantly, the residents are left with no option but to wait for longer periods of time to get their work done.
 
 Foswac pointed out that there are departments including education, health and electricity which are not acting upon the citizen charter drafted for the work completion.
 
 
 
 
 Citizen’s charter is a document which represents a systematic effort to focus on the commitment of the organisation towards its citizens in respects of standard of services, information, choice and consultation, non-discrimination and accessibility, grievance redress, courtesy and value for money.
 
 This also includes expectations of the organisation from the citizen for fulfilling the commitment of the organisation.
 
 
