Nagpur: While the   ( ) has lost a part (old kacheri) of the 1891 built old high court building in demolition following a high court directive dated March 26, 2018, now the remaining building which houses the actual court, can in now in no way be damaged. It has been declared as a monument of national importance by the Ministry of culture.

 The culture ministry has notified it as a protected monument under the Ancient Monuments and Archeological Sites and Remains Act (AMASR), 1958 by a gazette of India notification dated March 28, 2018. The Act prohibits any changes in the form of construction in the notified area. In fact, now there can be no encroachment or demolition activity in the 18228-square meter area of the building which also contains some land around the building. Also, such prohibition applies to another 100 meters along the notified area.
 
 ASI officials told TOI that the central government had already allocated Rs8.26 crore for the conservation project of the building. The conditional mapping and horticultural development of the building was already on. There are plans of converting it into an interpretation centre or a central museum. However the decision of reuse of the building or maintaining it as it is yet to be taken by the ASI. 
 
 It was the high court itself which had ordered the conservation of the building as a monument few months back and now it is the high court again which has ordered the demolition of some structures in the premises to make temporary space for parking of four wheelers for district court. The case is now due for next hearing on April 2, 2018.
 
 It took 20 years for the ASI to declare it as a centrally protected monument because the ASI (central government) office was housed in the old high court building since 1958. In 1968 the first excavation unit of ASI was also started at Nagpur. ASI has been working towards declaring of the building as a monument since December 22, 1998. But somehow the proposal remained pending. It was in 2003 that ASI again took up the issue when the   declared it as a heritage structure that the ASI woke up and wrote to state government for delisting it.
 
 The ASI managed to get a   from required authorities in state only on June 23, 2015. After that the CPWD declared it as a ‘dangerous building’ due to its dilapidated. Following this the ASI again revived the proposal with the union ministry of culture and submitted a proposal as per demand of fresh land records.
 
 The central government on May 23, 2017 issued a preliminary notification declaring the building as a protected monument and gave a two months period for public objections. But since there were no objections, the ASI after five months has now issued a notification declaring as a national importance monument.
 
 
