In the latest episode of  , Teni is called down for dinner by the family and she gets surprised when she is asked to join them on the table. Indu tells her that they have prepared dishes especially for her. Shorvari lies and tells her that they had found out about her preferences through Chutkan.

 Teni suggests that Dada ji should keep Parth in his limits as she thinks that he is the driver who roams around in the house like the owner. Dada ji says that Parth is a special person of the house. When Indu offers Parth to sit with them for food Teni suggests that they should send him to the servant's room. Parth leaves.
 
 Later, Parth goes to Shorvari’s room secretly to eat food. She tells him that she still believes in Teni.
 
 In the room, Teni tries to put Ipshita to sleep and in doing so, she tells her a story about a poor girl who falls in love with an already married man and promised to get them a child. After Ipshita falls asleep Teni drinks a pack of beer. When Ipshita begins to cry again, Teni goes to the servants's room to ask Parth for help. When she doesn't find him there, she knocks at Shorvari's door. Parth forbids Shorvari from opening it as he is with her inside. As Teni returns to her room she thinks that Shorvari does not care about Ipshita. She eventually falls asleep with Ipshita in her lap.
 
 The next morning, when Teni comes downstairs with Ipshita, Dadaji pretends to treat Parth as a driver and gives him some work. Then, furious over a crying Ipshita, Teni turns to leave. Shorvari sends Parth to speak to Teni.
 
 Parth follows Teni to her room and tries to explain it to her that Ipshita is mere child and that she will get lots of money at end of the month. When Teni doesn't agrees to change her decision, he tells her to give up on her dreams of going to America. He further tells her that the family would even help her get her visa stamped. He asks her to stay for two days and that he will teach her how to take care of Ipshita. In an attempt to convince her he even lies to her that there was another nanny before her, who was sent to Dubai. So, the family will help her to get to America.
 
 Teni goes to the kitchen and talks to Baa and Indu about Meenal, the nanny who was attending Ipshita before her. When they fail to recall Meenal, Teni starts to doubt Parth's intentions.
 
