AHMEDABAD: A fortnight after receiving an application of complaint from a Surat-based businessman against the inspector of Amreli police’s local crime branch and others for extortion of 200 Bitcoins worth Rs 12 crore,   police’s CID (crime) on Sunday filed an FIR in the case. The FIR names 11 accused including 10 policemen for offences ranging from abduction to attempt of extortion by a government employee.

 
 Ashish Bhatia, DGP, CID (crime), said the probe has not been able to establish the said transaction of Bitcoins or cash transactions of Rs 32 crore or Rs 78.5 lakh. “At the moment, three persons including two from Amreli police and a private individual from Surat have been apprehended in the case as a special investigation team has been formed for further probe,” he said.
 
 
 
 
  The Gujarat Police’s CID (crime) on Sunday filed an FIR in the sensational   extortion case while maintaining that the only crime they could detect on the basis of a fortnight-long investigation was the abduction and attempt to extortion by the accused, 10 policemen including an inspector. 
 
   , DGP, CID (crime), also announced the formation of a special investigation team (SIT) headed by DIG Dipankar Trivedi on Sunday. The team consists of an SP, two inspectors, and a sub-inspector.
 
 “The FIR has been filed on the basis of evidence found by the team so far. In his application, Shailesh Bhatt had mentioned the transfer of 200 Bitcoins worth Rs 12 crore from the digital wallet of his business partner, Kirit Paladiya,” Bhatia said. “Another Rs 32 crore were allegedly paid for their release from a farmhouse. Later, Rs 78.5 lakh were allegedly paid to get the Bitcoins back. All these transactions mentioned in the application could not be proven.”
 
 According to the FIR, Anant Patel, the inspector of Amreli police’s local crime branch (LCB), along with nine police constables in three police vehicles had abducted Bhatt, Paladiya, and Bhatt’s driver Mahipal from Nidhi Petrol Pump near Koba crossroads on February 14. The cops took their captives to Keshav Farm at Magodi village near Dehgam. Patel had allegedly threatened Bhatt and   into transferring the Bitcoins and later released them early on February 15 after the confirmation of Rs 32 crore transfer.
 
 “We checked the records and learnt that the use of police vehicles was unauthorized,” Bhatia said. “The team did not follow the procedure of informing Amreli or Gandhinagar Police. The trio was released after an alleged deal. Ketan Patel, a resident of Surat, had come to Magodi at the behest of Anant Patel and played an important role in the deal.”
 
 Ketan Patel was apprehended from Surat whereas the two constables —   and   — were apprehended from Amreli. The trio would be arrested late on Sunday night, said investigators.
 
 Investigators said that Bhatt had later sent his partners, Rajesh Desai and Dilip Kanani, with Rs 78.5 lakh to Amreli so that Amreli police doesn’t name him in any fictitious case. Police, however, did not get any evidence that the money was transferred.
 
 While a Patidar politician and a senior police official were named by Bhatt in his application, investigators said that there is no proof for the allegations. Bhatia said that further probe has been initiated on the basis of the statements of the victim and accused and the evidence collected so far. 
 
 “Digital wallets of Bhatt and Paladiya will also be scrutinized,” said an investigator.
 
 
