AGRA: To get rid of dust pollution around  , vacuum cleaning machines will be used to sweep dust from roads within 5km of the monument. Besides, the green cover in the area will be enhanced to make the environment cleaner, according to officials.
 
  These decisions were taken at a meeting of Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) officials with the district administration in Delhi on Friday. The meeting was called by the director general (DG) of  , Usha Sharma, to discuss the agenda for conservation and preservation of the monument.
  
  Agra district magistrate (DM) Gaurav Dayal, “For the short term, these decisions will be implemented by the district authorities. Long-term solutions will be implemented in accordance with the recommendations of School of Planning and Architecture, Delhi.”
  
  Talking to TOI, environmental petitioner   said, “The suggestions are good but there is a need to implement them with sincerity to really improve the situation. In the past 22 years, since industries were closed down in Agra, there has been no significant change in its pollution levels. Hopefully the situation will improve.”
  
  The next meeting is scheduled to be held in Delhi on July 7. According to sources, district authorities have also told ASI officials about the measures being taken by them so far. These include providing gas connections to families who were using wood-burning stoves for cooking.
  
  Agra region’s commissioner told in the meeting that nearly 2,000 families in the vicinity of the Taj use these ‘chulhas’ and the administration had provided 800 gas connections so far. Around 1,200 connections will be provided to the households in the next month. Also, the administration has decided to shift the entire petha industry, which may be causing both air and water pollution, further away from the monument.
  
  Besides, the administration is trying to convert a wood-burning crematorium, located near the monument, into an electric one as the smoke from it directly impacts Taj Mahal.
  
  Commissioner (Agra zone), K  , Agra DM Gaurav Dayal, pollution department officials and   officers were also present at the meeting. 
  
  The Agra district administration has already started a ‘special cleaning drive’ to rid Yamuna river of debris and other pollutants. The river has become a breeding ground for insects that swarm the monument at night, leaving green stains on the marble. The administration is deploying 200 labourers twice a week to clean the polluted river.
