VADODARA/AHMEDABAD: The   was baking as it witnessed the hottest day of the summers this year on Thursday with mercury rocketing to 43 degree Celsius. 

 Urshan Rathwa, a postman who was passing on the road in Wadi area on Wednesday afternoon suffered a heart attack and collapsed on the road. He was rushed to the SSG Hospital but doctors declared him dead on admission.
 
 The extreme heat had its effect on 19 citizens who suffered various ailments on Thursday. While eight persons fell unconscious, others complained of shooting blood pressure and abdominal pain. On Wednesday, 108 emergency services received calls from 36 persons who complained of vomiting, chest pain, abdominal pain and high BP. 
 
 Hot winds and humidity ensured that Barodians stayed indoors for most part of the day. The busiest of roads in both western and eastern areas wore a deserted look.
 
 The sale of fruit juices, buttermilk, sugarcane juice and coconut juice has gone up over last few days. A group of citizens have been distributing buttermilk for free in old city areas during noon. Even the traffic cops were seen taking refuge under the shade of trees in western parts. 
 
 VMC officials said that the zoo authorities are taking additional care to ensure that the birds and animals remain in cool environs.
 
 Elswhere in  , maximum temperatures soared above 44°C in five towns. Ahmedabad baked under the blistering sun, with the maximum temperature crossing 44°C for the second time this week. 
 
  airport, one of the 23 stations monitored by the met department, was the hottest place in the state for the second day straight, recording a maximum temperature of 45.2°C. On Wednesday, the mercury had touched 45.3°C at Kandla airport.
 
 Amreli town in   was the next hottest place, with a maximum temperature of 44.7°C on Thursday. 
 
 Met officials said heatwave conditions prevailed in Saurashtra and Kutch on Thursday. IMD issued a heatwave warning for Saurashtra and Kutch for Friday. Maximum temperatures will hover between 40°C and 44°C in North Gujarat, parts of Saurashtra-Kutch and South Gujarat for the next two or three days.
 
 The maximum temperature in Ahmedabad city may hover around the 44°C mark on Friday too. 
 
 At present, westerly to northwesterly winds are prevailing at lower levels over the region. As these winds may bring moisture, humidity levels are set to increase.
 
 
