MANGALURU: The council of Mangaluru City Corporation, at a special meeting convened by mayor   on Wednesday, approved the agenda pertaining to development works under Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) and   (ADB)-funded projects. The Congress-ruled council blamed the opposition  , which opposed the approval of the agenda, that it was trying to baulk city’s infrastructure development.

 The agenda pertained to Rs 124 crore works to be taken up under AMRUT and Rs 68 crore under ADB-funded projects. Out of the Rs 124 crore, Rs 33.25 crore is meant for drinking water supply, Rs 56.66 and Rs 34.17 crore for UGD network in old city municipal areas in two separate packages. Under ADB funds, MCC will undertake UGD network rehabilitation work in two packages of Rs 34.32 crore and Rs 33.66 crore respectively.
 
 The Rs 33.66 crore works include providing UGD network to Vamanjoor, Angaragundi, Tiruvail, Mangalanagar and   – that hitherto do not have this facility. The major bone of contention that the BJP had was with what they termed is diversion of funds allocated under AMRUT and dovetailing it with ADB II projects, a move that MCC commissioner Mohammad   supported on grounds that it was approved by the state high powered committee.
 
 The other point of contention was on the agency that is supposed to handle the assets created under projects executed under ADB and AMRUT funds. Opposition corporators said they are answering to stakeholders about shoddy maintenance of assets created under KUDCEM programme under ADB 1 tranche of funds. 
 
 “Unless there is a clarity on who will handle the assets so created, including maintenance, even these projects will go the ADB I project way,” they contended.
 
 S A Prabhakar Sharma, deputy project director, KUDCEM programme, who handles the regional programme management unit, said the programme implementation unit (PIU) set up will liaison with MCC engineers on every aspect of the project. 
 
 The state government is the guarantor for the loan provided by the ADB, he said, adding the corporators or any others interested could get in touch with the PIU office that Nazeer has permitted to function at MCC main office.
 
 
