CHANDIGARH: Punjab and Haryana high court has set a two-month deadline for the Union home ministry to issue orders on granting “battle casualty status” to paramilitary personnel who were killed on official duty.

 As of now, there is no such provision in the paramilitary forces to issue “battle casualty” certificates to personnel killed while performing official duties. As this certificate is not issued, families of deceased paramilitary personnel were facing difficulties in getting various kinds of ex-gratia benefits from the state governments.
 
 The high court division bench, comprising Justices A K   and A S Grewal passed these orders while disposing of a petition filed by  , son   trooper Chote Lal Sharma, who was killed in December 2015 in a BSF plane crash.
 
 Vashisth had approached the high court after Haryana had rejected financial assistance to the family, observing that the paramilitary personnel killed in air crash on a routine journey were not entitled to any ex-gratia grant. On this, the petitioner had sought directions to the ministry of home affairs ( ) to confer “battle casualty” status to such cases. In support of his argument, the petitioner had also submitted a letter issued by the BSF air wing in June 2016 stating that his father had made supreme sacrifice in the true tradition of force and had attained martyrdom.
 
 Responding to the petition, the Centre had submitted that though there was no such provision in the paramilitary forces, the matter was taken up at the highest level by BSF DG in a meeting under the chairmanship of the Union home minister on September 27, 2016 and they had decided that the Central Armed Police Forces may be permitted to issue “Battle Casualty Certificate” in such cases. The HC was also informed that the MHA would issue instructions in this regard to all the state governments.
 
 Hearing this, the high court in its March 8 order, directed the MHA to issue necessary instructions within a period of two months.
 
 Meanwhile, the Haryana government has already released an ex-gratia amount of Rs 20 lakh to the family and the BSF authorities have also released financial assistance to the family as per his entitlement.
 
 The petitioner's father sub-inspector Chote Lal Sharma, a resident of   village of Mahendragarh district, was killed on December 22, 2015 after the BSF plane, ferrying the force's technical personnel to Ranchi from Delhi, had crashed near Dwarka and burst into flames just outside the IGI Airport shortly after take-off, killing all 10 people onboard.
 
 
