MUMBAI: BEST on Monday decided to bring in private contractors to operate buses in Mumbai, inviting the wrath of workers who, fearing retrenchment, plan to go on an indefinite strike from Thursday onwards.

 The  , which comprises a set of corporators from the ruling Shiv Sena-BJP combine in the civic corporation has cleared a proposal to wet-lease 450 buses for seven years for Rs 612 crore. Of the buses, 200 will be AC mini, 200 non-AC mini and 50 midi.
 
 Wet leasing is when the contractor not only provides vehicles, but also the drivers. The first lot of the new buses —a quarter of the order—will hit the road by May-end. The rest will be introduced by July-end. The move means AC buses will be back in the city after a year. 
 
  
 The long-term plan of the BEST administration (which is headed by an IAS officer) is to procure 1,250 buses on wet lease in two years. If the BEST committee clears it, close to a third of the undertaking’s fleet would be owned by private contractors. 
 
 BEST says wet-leasing will ensure savings of Rs 9 per km per AC bus and Rs 33 per km per midi bus. “Passengers need quick and reliable services. They migrate to taxis and share autos if the buses don’t arrive on time. With the new fleet, we expect to deploy mini and midi buses on feeder and office routes. Buses will arrive on time,” said BEST’s general manager Surendrakumar Bagde. “Wet-leasing will improve efficiency while minimizing costs.”
 
 Monday’s decision has upset workers. “We oppose privatization of the BEST fleet and fear retrenchment of hundreds of drivers. Workers will voluntarily join our strike and buses will not operate from Thursday morning,” said BEST Workers' Union head Shashank Rao. If the strike occurs, BEST’s 30 lakh daily commuters will face hardship.
 
 The wet-leased buses will be owned, maintained and driven by private contractors, who will also bear fuel expenses. The contractors will be given four depots for parking. BEST will only deploy conductors to collect revenue through ticket sales. It also retains the right to place advertisements on buses and generate income.
 
 The committee’s clearance, pending for months, came with a rider from its Shiv Sena corporators: the contractors must give preference to ‘sons of the soil’ and sons of ex-BEST staffers in drivers’ recruitment. Some Sena corporators were not happy with the proposal but cleared it in the wake of the administration deciding to recover Divali bonus from the salaries of 40,000 staffers unless its suggested reforms were undertaken. “There was also pressure from the   on the reforms, including wet leasing of buses,” a source said.
 
 Within minutes of the proposal’s clearing, Bagde told journalists no deductions would be made from workers' salaries as the final stage of reforms suggested by the BMC was being implemented.
 
 “The new buses will be painted just like our existing BEST buses and remain exclusively in our fleet for seven years,” Bagde said.
 
 The monthly cost of the lease comes to around Rs 7.25 crore. BEST expects to meet a major part of operational costs by mobilizing ad revenue and a fare hike (the proposal is with the BMC for approval).
 
 BEST’s present fleet is of 3,337 buses. Around 150 buses are scrapped every year.
 
 Leader of the opposition in the BMC Ravi Raja of the Congress said the lease rent should not vary over the years. “This is 100% privatization, but we have no objection in clearing the proposal. There should be a stringent penalty clause for contractors and we should recover the day's earnings if a bus is not put into service,” he said.
 
 
