GURUGRAM: Days after a popular city-based fertility clinic moved court against its former chief executive officer (CEO), alleging that he helped a rival company set up its centre in Delhi and joined that firm later, a former vice-president (HR& operations) of the clinic approached police, accusing senior company officials of wrongful confinement, misbehaviour, harassment and assault at workplace.

 Based on her complaint, an FIR was registered against six executives of the firm, including five foreigners, at the women’s police station on Sunday.
 
 The 35-year-old woman from Delhi worked at the company — Bourn Hall International India Private Ltd — at Sector 40 till February 17, 2016. She alleged that she was harassed by the senior executives when she sent her resignation letter to the company management. She was appointed VP at Bourn Hall on April 8, 2013. TOI made several attempts to reach out to the fertility clinic authorities but those didn’t elicit any response. 
 
 The complainant also alleged soon after the   banned surrogacy in India, the clinic became liable to refund the money it accepted from patients who were promised a baby through surrogacy, but the management was not ready for it. Owing to this, she alleged, patients and their family members started creating a ruckus at the clinic, and some of them even threatened to kidnap her child. In her complaint, she said she was targeted even on social networking sites by several patients.
 
 This, according to the complainant, forced her to quit the company on December 17, 2015, but she was pressured to serve the notice period of two months. She agreed to their demand and continued to work. “On my last day at the clinic — February, 17, 2016 — senior executives of the company, Khaled Barazi, Yousuf  , Sudhir Bahl, James Morgan and Melham called me for a meeting to discuss a matter regarding my resignation. It was around 5:30pm when I was called into the conference room. Upon seeing only five men in the room, I felt uncomfortable and requested them to call other women executives, but they refused to do so. They offered me the post of managing director but I refused it. On my refusal, they became furious and started abusing, threatening and harassing me. I tried to call someone but my phone was snatched by Haider. When I tried to open the room’s door, Khaled and Bahl stopped me, pushed me back and threatened me of dire consequences if I tried to leave the room. I cried for help. Only security officer Ramesh   and driver Bijender Singh came to my rescue and they managed to save her from the room around 7:00pm. I went to my chamber first, but when they again tried to harass I left for my home with the help of Kumar and Singh. I had sent many mails to the company but they have not taken my ordeal seriously. Finally I decided to file the complaint after a long wait,” the woman said in her complaint.
 
 An FIR has been registered against all six under sections 354-A ( ), 506 (criminal intimidation), 34 (common intention) of IPC at the Women police station.SHO Poonam Hudda of the Women’s police station said, “We are investigating the matter and verifying the facts first. We also called the clinic management for questioning. An action will be taken as per the law.”
 
 
