NEW DELHI: In a decision that sparked a political fight between BJP and Congress, Rajya Sabha chairman   referred a privilege notice against Congress president   to   Speaker   for her consideration.

 According to sources, Naidu found prima facie a question of privilege against the Congress president concurring with the contention of BJP RS member Bhupender Yadav, that Gandhi imputed motives to the intent, character and conduct of finance minister Arun Jaitley by the way the spelling of his name was twisted.
 
 If Lok Sabha Speaker Sumitra Mahajan comes to the conclusion that the notice needs to be examined, she will refer it to the Lok Sabha privileges committee where BJP has a majority and which is headed by party member Meenakshi Lekhi.
 
 The privilege committee can, if it decides, admonish a person for breach of privilege, recommend a jail term or in extreme cases recommend termination of membership: a power it used against former PM   for intimidating officers of Parliament to suppress information.
 
 Yadav moved the notice of privilege under Rule 187 on December 28 after a tweet by Rahul the previous day in which finance minister Arun Jaitley’s name was distorted. He also raised the matter in the Rajya Sabha.
 
 Rahul’s tweet had followed the statement of Jaitley, who is Leader of Rajya Sabha, in the House on December 27 as a part of a solution negotiated with Congress to resolve the standoff over PM Modi’s remarks running down ex-PM Manmohan Singh and ex-Vice-President HamidAnsari.
 
 As a part of the understanding, Jaitley and Leader of Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad had expressed their and reiterated their respect for and commitment to uphold the dignity of the top offices of the country. Jaitley stated that Modi did not question nor did he mean to question the commitment to the nation of either Manmohan Singh or HamidAnsari. Azad reciprocated in equal measure, underscoring the needto respectthe PM and that his party did not approve any derogatory remarks about Modi.
 
 Referring to the statement by Jaitley, Rahul had tweeted: “Dear Mr Jaitlie (sic)- thank you for reminding India that our PM never means what he says or says what he means.” Sources also said former PM Manmohan Singh had seen the two statements before they were made in the House. The RS chairman referredthe privilege against Gandhi to LS under a procedure, which was devised in 1954 which has been used earlier too. 
 
