HYDERABAD: The   (HSF) — India’s first cyber security cluster — will be formally launched on May 22 in the city, with the   and the head of the   (HSD) signing a ‘program of corporation’ on cyber security.

 
 This was confirmed by Telangana IT secretary,   who shared that the delegation will also include cyber security companies from the  .
 
 The visit, he added, is aimed at intensifying Indo-Dutch cooperation in the cyber security sector and strengthening ties to focus on counter-terrorism and information sharing. “The agreement between member companies and institutions of the Hyderabad Security Foundation and the HSD will be signed on May 22. We have a good eco-system of cyber security here in Hyderabad due to the presence of private companies, government institutions, start-ups and National law school (NALSAR).We will be taking help from HSD in developing a cyber-security cluster of our own apart from designing cyber security courses and developing legal framework for cyber security which is currently not robust in India.”
 
 The launch of the cluster is expected to catapult Hyderabad into the global cyber security eco-system in a big way. “Our vision is to achieve a major stake in the $35 billion cyber security market. Our major emphasis will on critical information infrastructure protection, government network, e-governance, education and skill training, security software development, innovation of products ban
 
 services and collaboration in forensic science,” said Zaki Qureshey, founding father and task force member HSF.
 
 Political dialogue has been on between the countries. “For India’s information sector, Europe ranks number two in terms of amount of business it drives, and for many IT firms, it’s their largest global market. As companies tighten focus on containing cyber risks, they are witnessing a significant rise in digital talent gap, especially in terms of cyber security skills,” said Vikas Kohli, senior policy advisor, The Kingdom of Netherlands Embassy.
 
 
