BHUBANESWAR: His father hoped Dilip Ratha would become a postmaster and lead a good life. But Dilip had other ideas. He had seen the world open up before his eyes when he moved from the remote Sindhekela village in   district to Sambalpur’s GM College, some 150 km away, to pursue college education. And he didn’t want to stop there. 

 Today he is busy plotting the economic trends that movement of people offers, throughout the world. As a leading economist on remittances, Dilip is credited with apprising the world about its importance, himself having come out of a region – the impoverished Kalahandi-Balangir-Koraput belt – that witnesses the bulk of distressed migration in the state, every year. In that sense, Dilip’s migration in the 1970s was almost a foregone conclusion. But few in his village ever imagined that Dilip would attain such heights and set an example for others. 
 
 Dilip’s father   was a patwari(land assessor), a low-paid employee in the revenue department. His father’s salary was not enough to take care of the education of Dilip and his four siblings. So, when he moved to Sambalpur, he decided to take matters into his own hands. Besides the scholarship money he received for his excellent marks in matriculation, Dilip started offering tuitions which helped take care of his education and two of his siblings. “Seeing my interests in studies, my father hoped I would become a postmaster one day and lead a good life,” says Dilip. 
 
 From GM College in Sambalpur, Dilip went to Cuttack’s Ravenshaw College and from there to Delhi’s   University. He did his PhD from the Delhi centre of Indian Statistical Institute. Dilip worked as a regional economist for Asia at   Indosuez, Singapore; as a faculty member of economics at the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad, and as an economist at the Policy Group, New Delhi before moving on to the   in the early 1990s. Even though it has been decades since he left his village, Dilip still carries Sindhekela in his heart. “He keeps in touch with his family and friends over phone. He keeps enquiring about everyone’s wellbeing,” says Sitaram Agrawal, a close friend of Dilip’s. “When he last visited the village in 2015, we had discussed the prospects of building a check dam on the Ong river. 
 
 The plan is likely to take off when he comes next,” adds Sitaram. When Dilip joined the World Bank, remittance economy was considered an insignificant sum in the global scheme of things. This year, he says, remittance inflow to developing countries is expected to rebound after two years of decline and may touch $450 billion.
 
