CHENNAI: Two robbers would have gotten away at least with their impersonation if not robbery on Monday, hadn’t the wig of one come off resulting in an exposé. The two men, posing as husband and wife, attacked a doctor and attempted to rob valuables from his house in T Nagar here on Monday evening, when neighbours caught them red handed.

 The neighbours did not realise that one of them was a man disguised as woman, until his wig came off when they tried to grab the suspect by his hair.
 
 The duo have been identified as P Prakash, 27, of   and M Sujanth, 19, of Dindigul. Sujanth had earlier engaged in some construction work at the house of Dr Radhakrishnan, 74, while Prakash was a civil engineer.   resided on the ground floor of the apartment complex on G N  , while the first two floors hosted shops. On Monday, Radhakrishnan spotted a couple standing outside his house, and invited them into his house taking them for house-hunters who had noticed a tolet board on the complex.
 
 Sujanth, dressed as a woman wearing a slawar kameez and a wig, and Prakash entered the house around 4pm. Once inside, the duo attacked the doctor with a stone, from the impact of which the elderly man fainted. The ‘couple’ then threatened the doctor’s wife to hand over the almirah key when she came into the hall hearing her husband’s cries. Even as Radhakrishnan’s wife tried to raise an alarm, the duo tried to smother her using a chemical which they took from the victim’s bathroom. Hearing the calls for help, neighbours forced themselves into the house and caught the robber ‘couple’ red-handed. And during the ordeal, Sujanth’s wig came off.
 
 They were beaten up and handed over to the   police. Police are investigating to know whether they had engaged in similar modus operandi previously. “When Sujanth took up work at the victim’s house, Radhakrishnan is said to have rebuked him for not doing his job perfectly,” said an investigating officer. Sujanth had noticed that the couple were wealthy and had informed Prakash, who had hatched the plan, said the police.
 
 
