NEW DELHI: In good faith, Sandeep Chauhan told   on Thursday morning that neighbours had been complaining about his services and so he should be careful while driving his daughter to school. Soon after Kumar sped away, Chauhan saw news about a school van   flashing on television.

 “We learnt of the accident from the TV channels,” Chauhan said. But he still did not know that the vehicle involved was the one carrying his daughter, Sakshi, to   in Keshavpuram Part I. But to his horror, the news clip publicised the registration number of the vehicle and Chauhan realised it was Kumar’s Maruti Omni van. “I began phoning Vijay, but his number was unreachable. Then after two and a half hours, I received a call from a hospital saying that my daughter had died,” said the   of 7-year-old Sakshi.
 
 Chauhan revealed that he had booked Kumar’s school cab to ferry his daughter to and from school a year and half ago on the recommendations of some families in the neighbourhood. He paid Rs 400 every month for the service. “I got to know only a few days back that Vijay drove rashly. So today morning, I warned him against driving with his headphones on,” said the devastated father.
 
 Until the accident, most families claimed being unaware that the van carried 18 students. They said Kumar never halted near the colony and so they did not know how many children he transported. “My daughter used to complain to my wife about the cab dropping her a kilometre from our house. She called Vijay last evening and asked him to drop Sakshi at the doorstep. Now we realise that he did not want us to see the packed van,” Chauhan said.
 
 Other parents said Kumar had obviously tricked them by picking up just five students in his car in the first run, making them believe that he was following the guidelines for school transporters.
 
 Chauhan’s wife, Aarti, was told about Sakshi’s death only in the evening. “We did not expect her to leave us so soon,” she sobbed at the cremation of her daughter. “We wanted her to become a doctor. We were overwhelmed when she managed to qualify for admission to Kendriya Vidyalaya.”
 
 Sakshi’s three-year-old brother has been pestering the parents about his sister. “He was sleeping at the time of the accident and we avoided letting him see Sakshi’s body. He still believes that she will return from school and play with him,” said Sanjiv, Chauhan’s brother.
 
 
