One of the most spectacular weekly events of the city, Ganga aarti is a sight to behold on every Saturday and Sunday. As you must have witnessed in Varanasi or Haridwar, here too the aarti is performed by a group of priests — all draped in saffron robes, with a huge diya in each one’s hand and puja plates laid out before them. No wonder it attracts a large number of devotees, both locals and tourists from other states and even abroad. Unfortunately, the ritual took a setback when a boat capsized while returning from Ganga Diara claiming several lives on January 14, 2017. But now that it has resumed after a year, citizens are really happy. 

 Safety measures taken
 Keeping the sad incident in mind, authorities have become more cautious. Anand Kishore, Patna divisional commissioner, said, “We have barricaded the area around the aarti spot and and we will soon instal display screens so that people can watch the aarti live from anywhere around the  . This will distribute the crowd and hence chances of mishaps will reduce. We have also banned the entry of private boats when the aarti is going on. Only government boats will be allowed to carry passengers.   (SDRF) remains vigilant during the hour.”
 
 Reduces water pollution
 Ganga aarti not only makes the aura pure but also ensures that the river is cleaned on regular basis. People, too, refrain from throwing garbage on the banks. Surjeet Swaroop, one of the priests who performs aarti regularly, said, “The main motive behind organising this aarti is to reduce water pollution and we have been successful to a great extent. Now,   is very clean and there is minimal dumping of garbage. Last year, the administration stopped aarti due to security reasons, as over 5,000 people gather at Gandhi Ghat on weekends. Now, better security arrangements have been made and cops are around when aarti is being performed.”
 
 Boosts revenue
 In order to have the best glimpse of Ganga aarti, tourists either hire government boats or view it from the floating cruiser that takes the devotees to the middle of the river. These boats have given a revenue boost to the government. Jaspreet Singh, a tourist, said, “I have come from Bhopal to offer my prayers at Patna Sahib Gurudwara. When I heard about the Ganga aarti from local people, I stayed back to witness it before leaving.” 
 
 Hangout zone for youths
 The lively ghats on weekends have also become a hangout zone for youngsters. Sandip Sinha, a student present during the aarti, said, “The aarti starts as the dusk descends. After witnessing the spectacle, my friends and I spend time chatting and sipping hot masala tea on the ghat.”
 
 Stall keepers happy
 Some people who come to watch aarti also visit the temples on the ghats. This increases the sale of puja commodities. Besides, the weekend aarti is also a good time for the sale of snacks and tea. Anil Kumar Gupta, a tea stall owner on Gandhi Ghat, said, “For the last one year, my monthly income decreased by around `3000. Once the aarti resumed, I am again busy with customers dropping in. I serve tea to around 700 customers on weekends.” Sharing similar views, Raju, the chanachur stall keeper, said, “The sales increase more on weekends and it compensates for the rest of the week when I earn less. Ganga aarti blesses us with better livelihood.”
 
