It is winter time. You’re forever cold, forever hungry and more often than not buried under layers of clothing. And then there is air pollution. Did anyone mention the word ‘exercise’? 

 It isn’t such a scary proposition, after all. “In my opinion, winter is the best time to shed excess fat as your body is burning more calories throughout the day and the weather gives you an advantage to work harder for longer durations without getting completely exhausted,” says fitness expert Gagan Arora. 
 
 
 
 We breathe approx 20,000 times in a day and   takes it up to 30,000-50,000 times. While we can’t spare our lungs completely from the pollution, we can surely keep a few things in mind to try and reduce the adverse effects. “Try to breathe through your nose not mouth; wear a good mask/buff when going out for a walk/jog/cycle, especially in visible smoke; wear sunglasses to protect eyes,” adds Arora. One should also have loads of fluids, antioxidant-rich foods and a bit of jaggery to beat the pollutants. According to fitness instructor Munmun Ganeriwal, “You can combat bad air by doing yoga since it is all about adjusting to the changes in the environment through different types of asanas.” For instance, sun salutations help open up the chest, throat, and sinuses and warm up the body. It also helps in decongesting the respiratory organs – a common winter problem.
 
 
 If you don’t want to go for an outdoor  , join a health club or do some body weight strength training and yoga within the comfort of your living room. “You can work on every muscle in your body with hundreds of exercises that can be performed in a small space and adapted to your fitness level. Go for body weight exercises like jumping jacks, burpees, tricep dips, bridges, planks et al,” says Ganeriwal, adding that winter is a good time to enrich practice of Iyengar Yoga using a chair – the best part being that it can be implemented both at home and office. 
 
 But make sure you are dressed right for your  . Gearing up right is crucial in winters as bulky clothing can be a hindrance in bodily movements. “If you really want to layer up, avoid woollens, go for play dry clothing instead as it keeps the sweat out and lets you work out well,” says Arora. 
 
 
 
 We generally feel hungrier in winter as the body burns more calories through the day to keep itself warm. Nutrition plays an important role in any season and we need to change our meal plans as per our goals and season. “In cold season, add more nuts, berries, soups and warm salads to your staple food,” Arora mentions. Eat seasonal grains like bajra, makki, kuttu, seasonal fruits and veggies and winter treats made of til and gur.
 
 Five quick fixes for winter: Walk longer, run faster, cycle harder, lift heavier and stretch deeper
 
 
