It is a pleasant sight indeed! When you walk into the third anniversary celebrations of this popular nightclub of a 5-star hotel situated near the international airport, you find that a differently abled deejay is on the console, and happily playing music to a large number of differently abled and members from the   community on the floor. There is a LGBT member who also shows you around the nightclub. A transgender looks after the online marketing activities of the hotel. The differently abled (speech and hearing impaired) are trying out some dance steps. In an effort to mainstream the differently abled and the LGBTQIA community, this is the only hotel in the country, which is pushing the debate on equal rights for everyone a notch further, by offering them jobs, depending on their skill sets and expertise. 

  And to highlight the cause, this year’s celebrations were themed around a party, which had many members from the LGBT community walk the ramp along with international drag Queen Lady Bunny entertaining the crowds. “It has always been an effort to work with marginalized communities, ranging from differently abled individuals to sexual minorities. In order to make our hotel gender diversified, we made these efforts to highlight humanity over sexuality,” says  , executive director of the hotel. 
 
  
  
 
  Two years back, the hotel also witnessed one of its employees Mahhi go through a sex change operation and transform from a man to a woman. She says, “I am currently working as a gate manager. I never thought I would get the kind of respect when I would party and enjoy my evenings here. Even, there was the fear of outsiders who would visit and find it strange seeing a transgender standing at the entrance. But, nothing like that happened. I worked with a hotel earlier and they had issues in the way I dressed but I have a lot of freedom here. I have an identity and have my self-worth back in this job.”
 
  
  
 
  A Thursday evening, every week is dedicated for people from the LFBT community and the differently abled to party.  , PR manager of the hotel, said, “More than the initiative, it is also about showing your solidarity and support for the community. If other individuals don’t show support, how can they overcome their limitations and be a part of daily activities?”
 
  
  
 
  In addition to the dancing and celebration, the party also had transgenders, gays and acid attack survivors walking the ramp, portraying that beauty comes from within. It was a different and colourful sight as the transgenders and gays walked the ramp along with the former Mr Former Mr Gay World, Sushant Divgikar, who performed at the event. He said, “I have participated in the mainstream (  and anchored many shows), have been to different events around the world and I really felt that everyone was the same at this event. Everyone was given equal amount of respect and people celebrated together. That’s what I feel was the best about the celebration.”
 
  
  
 
  Wheelchair bound deejay   aka deejay   who was playing some interesting numbers, says, “I didn’t know that even after so much awareness on differently abled individuals and faciltities for them, I will not be welcome in the popular nightclubs of Delhi. Whenever I asked them to make facilities for people like us so that we can also enjoy, they were not open to it. After a lot of hard work in the field of music, and achieving professional training in it, I was surprised that Keshav Suri judged me on my talent and not my being specially abled. Finally there iss a place in India which was accepting my work over someone who is normal and established in this talent.”
 
  
 
 
