Trichy: A venomous snake sneaked into the rest room of Thuvakudi bus depot of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) recently creating panic among the staff. Though the incident happened a week ago, the workers are aggrieved that the TNSTC management has not yet woken up to their safety concerns. A video clip showing the snake has been doing the rounds on social media ringing alarm bells about the safety of transport workers who say they are unable to sleep peacefully in the building. The depot at Thuvakudi situated along the Trichy-Thanjavur stretch of National Highway 67 has around 52 city fleets operating every day. With a workforce of 400 including drivers, conductors and technical assistants, the rest room facility measuring less than 1,200 squarefeet is used by them to halt before commencing morning shifts.  In the wee hours of April 12, with as many as 25 transport workers sleeping inside the rest room, a four-foot-long venomous common krait slithered into the room. Fortunately, one of the workers saw it and alerted his sleeping colleagues who, armed with sticks, thrashed the reptile. “There are a lot of thickets and shrubs along a drainage canal close to the compound of our depot. Quite often, insects and reptiles stray into the premises, but it was a close shave for us as the venomous snake was spotted on time that night,” P Mariyappan, a helper attached to the Thuvakudi TNSTC depot, said. Though a week has passed, transport corporation workers claimed that they were unable to sleep in the rest room as the incident haunted them at night and often affected their work efficiency. Pointing out that they had been working tirelessly for 8-10 hours a day, the TNSTC workers in Thuvakudi depot sought an assurance for their safety in the depot’s rest room. When contacted, an official of TNSTC Thuvakudi depot said that the incident had been brought to the notice of senior officials in TNSTC Trichy for finding solutions to the demands of transport corporation employees.  Citing the October 2017 accident at Porayar TNSTC bus depot in Nagapattinam district that claimed the lives of eight TNSTC workers who were were asleep as the ceiling of the rest room caved in, transport corporation workers sought concrete solutions for the perennial threats to their safety in bus depots.