THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: As part of the government policy to make   the administrative language of the state, the government has decided to issue certificates from all departments to the public in both   and Malayalam.

 Secretary of personnel and administrative reforms department (official language) TO   issued an order that all forms and certificates issued to the public should be in Malayalam and English. “The certificates have to be in both languages as it will be useful for the person concerned in other states only if the matter is printed in English,” Sooraj said, adding that chief minister   will hold a meeting next month where the progress of the move will be reviewed.
 
 He said that necessary directives have been given to all departments to make changes in the software. “Almost all forms and certificates have been made available online. Changes have to be made in the software to incorporate both languages,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, government has also launched a WhatsApp group through an order which is exclusively devoted for the promotion of Malayalam. The group members include all additional chief secretaries, secretaries, district collectors and heads of departments. The group administrator is an official language expert from the department of official language and the group has been titled ‘Marakkalle Malayalam’.
 
 Every day, the language expert will forward a commonlyused English word in government communication and its Malayalam equivalent. The head of department concerned or the district collector must circulate the word among their subordinates either through their groups or on the official noticeboard.
 
 Last month, the government had issued an order that all service-related documents-—relating to disciplinary action, memos, transfer orders and promotions—must be issued only in Malayalam. The order was issued on the recommendation of chief secretary   at a meeting held to review the progress of Malayalam as the administrative language. It will be applicable to all officials at the Secretariat, government, semi-government organizations, PSUs and cooperative societies.
 
