MAPUSA: The proposed redevelopment of the   market, including covering the entire area with a roof and doing away with the iconic Shakuntala fountain has met with stiff opposition from two ruling councillors.

 Councillors   and   on Thursday submitted a memorandum to urban development minister and Mapusa MLA Francis D’Souza objecting to the proposal of covering the Mapusa municipal market with sheets as well as construction of a central plaza (security room) in place of the Shakuntala statue in the proposed redevelopment  .
 
 Chief minister   has made two visits to Mapusa to discuss the project. Mapusa municipal council ( ) passed a resolution on the project by 16-2 votes. Tople has also started a ‘Market Bachao Abhiyan’ claiming that the plan to cover the entire market with a shed will spell doom and will damage the identity of the famed 67-year-old Mapusa market that was built during the Portuguese era.
 
 MMC chairperson   has said that the presentation of the plan was held in the presence of chief minister Manohar Parrikar, councilors, market committee and Mapusa merchants association.
 
 The project, which will be taken up in two phases, without disturbing the existing market structure and set up, will have CCTV surveillance, fire hydrant system, underground cabling, toilets, water facilities, ATM facilities, solar panels, etc. The market roof will be covered and will have three ring roads free from vendors. Phase I of the work will cost Rs 19.6 crore and phase II will cost Rs 17 crore.
 
 Tople opposed the plan to cover the entire market and construct sheds on the roads in the market. He said that the council will not be in a position to maintain the market, while the number of vendors on the roads will increase due to covering of roads in the market. He said that he has no objections to other provisions in the plan.
 
 “Covering the entire market with a roof and constructing sheds on the roads inside the market will destroy the identity of the market. It will look like a factory. There won’t be fresh air ventilation and sunlight. In case of fire emergency, the market will choke,” Tople said.
 
 Tople alleged that councilors were not taken into confidence over the issue of refurbishment of the municipal market and a joint meeting between the Mapusa MLA and the councilors was not held.
 
 “According to this plan, Shakuntala fountain, considered to be a landmark of the Mapusa market, will be demolished and instead a security room will be built there. I am launching the Mapusa market bachao abhiyan. We will first talk to the merchants followed by an awareness campaign and a public meeting against covering the entire market with a roof,” Tople said.
 
 
