SHILLONG: For the Congress, the fight for Meghalaya is as much a fight to stave off political oblivion in the northeast as it is to retain power.   is at the helm in three of the region's seven states: Assam, Manipur and Arunachal while Nagaland's government is run by Naga People's Front alongwith BJP. In Tripura,   has long lost its status as main opposition and Mizoram, held by the Congress, heads to the hustings later this year.

 In Meghalaya, Congress is battling anti-incumbency and big-ticket defections and is up against a strong challenge from National People's Party (NPP), founded by the late PA Sangma, and BJP. NPP, and other regional parties are part of the NDA at the Centre, as well as the BJP-led North East Democratic Alliance but are contesting separately.
 
 In power the past eight years, in itself an aberration in politically volatile Meghalaya, firebrand Congress CM Mukul Sangma feels his party is on track to retain power. The 53-year-old says, "We'll have more than two (Meghalaya and Mizoram) in years to come. Here, we'll make it past 30 seats." The Meghalaya assembly has 60 seats.
 
  
  
 
 But confidence apart, NPP inflicted a shock defeat on Mukul when his MLA wife, Dikkanchi D Shira, lost to PA Sangma's son, Conrad, in 2016's Tura Lok Sabha bypoll. Also, BJP intensified its activities in the state, and diluted its 'Hindutva agenda' to a large extent to suit local sentiment. PM Modi's 'Rally for Change' in December was well-attended. The saffron party has steered clear of cultural collisions such as beef in local diet — BJP neta Bernard Marak quit the party last June protesting party seniors' opposition to a beef-bitchi (local brew) party he wanted to host to celebrate three years of the Modi government.
 
 To humour non-tribal voters, BJP has also side-stepped the issue of illegal migration.
 
 In contrast, Mukul's journey this time has been bumpy from the start. Weeks before the poll process started, eight Congress legislators jumped ship — five to NPP, one each to BJP and People's Democratic Front while another MLA opted to fight as an Independent.
 
 "We've had setbacks but changes in the leadership in Delhi (Rahul Gandhi's elevation as president) and Meghalaya have energised the party here," state Congress working president and MP Vincent Pala says.
 
 Congress got a toehold in Meghalaya in 1976 when All Party Hill Leaders' Conference, which spearheaded the movement for Meghalaya's formation, merged with it. The party has had six CMs in the state, forming governments with the help of regional parties and Independents. In 2013, Congress came closest to majority, bagging 29 seats, two short of the winning number. It formed government with the help of 10 MLAs, mostly Independents. The regional parties together won 16 seats, and are all NDA allies.
 
 This time, too, Independents and regional parties are gearing up to have a say in who takes charge of the state. Given how BJP managed to capture Arunachal Pradesh and Manipur, Congress may find it difficult to form government if it falls short of majority. Keenly aware of this, Mukul says, "When you know the opposition's working overtime to dethrone you, it insulates you from complacency."
 
 His party showcases their achievements—universal health insurance, success against militancy, tourism and development and stresses on its policy of inclusiveness.
 
 Like in Manipur, BJP has been soliciting support saying that Meghalaya will gain if it votes for the party that is in power at the Centre. Its campaign has been strident focusing on the anti-incumbency factor. PM Modi and Amit Shah and KJ Alphons, its Christian face, have held several rallies. "Our morale is high. People are aware of PM Modi's achievements,"says state BJP president Shibun Lyngdoh; the party banking on the PM's 'vikas' agenda.
 
 NPP looks comfortably placed, with its grassroots connect and links with the Centre, both working to its advantage. It talks of its founder PA Sangma's legacy. Projecting itself as Congress's key challenger, it expects to gain from its decision to not have a pre-poll tie-up with BJP, seen as a Hindutva party.
 
