AHMEDABAD: Asserting their faith and creating another rallying point for community members, Patidars settled in the US are constructing   temples at a frenetic pace. While three temples in the states of New Jersey, Boston and Massachusetts are expected to be functional by the end of 2018, four more temples have been planned by the community members.

 Umiya Mata is family deity (kul devi) of the Kadva Patidars with the main temple located in Unjha, Mehsana. The first major Umiya Mata temple got functional in Macon, Georgia in 2013. A chariot for the deity was also constructed which was taken to the US from Gujarat.
 
  
  
 Dilip Patel, secretary of Shree Umiya Mata Sansthan, Unjha, said that the US has a sizeable   population. “They form over half of the Gujarati population in the US. The community’s sentiment was to establish their place of worship.”
 
 Patel added, “If there is any Umiya Mata temple constructed in India, the sacred flame is sent from the Unjha temple. As it is not possible overseas, the idols will be prepared by expert artisans. The temples will also be the congregation points for the community and other Gujaratis living in the vicinity.”
 
 Govind Patel, trustee of the Boston-based temple which is under construction, said that a 20 acre plot in middle of the city has been acquired at the cost of $4.1 million and an additional $3 million will be spent to construct the temple across 80,000 sq feet. “The city has a population of about 10,000 Gujaratis. We celebrate major festivals together and the temple will have facilities for larger gatherings,” said Patel, a native of Jhulasan in Mehsana district.
 
 Patel said that the temples are being constructed or are planned in Illinois, New Jersey, California, Kentucky, South Carolina and Tennessee.
 
 While many see the exercise as creating a different sociopolitical identity for the affluent Patidar community, associated with other temples for many years, the Sansthan officials brush it off. “The temples stand for ‘sangathan, ekta, shraddha’ (union, unity and faith). It’s a social organization open for all. The platform will be used for social activities. Patidars don’t need a separate identity – they’ve proven their mettle in the US,” said Prahlad Patel, president of Umiya Mata Sansthan.
 
 
