LUDHIANA: A common man in Ludhiana will get an access to   footage of strong rooms where EVM machines will be kept under tight security after polling. The district administration will share links of web-enabled CCTV cameras installed outside the strong rooms through YouTube.

 The idea is to give access not only to officers and candidates, but also to the common man. Anybody can check the condition of strong rooms on their mobile phones or computers.
 
 Strong rooms will be at nine locations in the city where EVM machines will be kept under the CCTV surveillance till January 27 when counting will take place. The links will be shared in a folder created on official website of district administration www.ludhiana.nic.in. Anybody can click the links and check the view of the strong rooms.
 
 Additional deputy commissioner-cum-additional   officer Neeru Katyal said they would share nine links on YouTube where any person can check the strong rooms. She said they have already started monitoring strong rooms through this system and they will share the link after it becomes functional properly. She said step has been taken to ensure transparency and avoid any type of blame game.
 
 The opposition parties have been raising hue and cry over delaying the election results for two days and they have also alleged that ruling party can do anything to win the   polls. The department has decided to put it on YouTube as it won’t hang even if a large number of users want to access the footages.
 
 Meanwhile, the residents claimed that it will be a good step.
 
 Harpreet Singh, a resident of civil lines, said candidates will be relieved as they keep suspecting that EVM machines are being tampered with. When everything will be available at one click, then such fears won’t trouble them.
 
 Bhavna Sharma, a resident of Haibowal, said if people can see everything while sitting at home then there will be lesser chaos outside the counting centres and administration will be able to handle everything without any interference. She said that it will be a new thing for the residents as well.
 
 
