We have heard about the Arab spring being fuelled by the   but here in Kerala, there was a hartal organised through WhatsApp forwards. Then there was the instance of all and sundry naming and publishing the picture of the victim in the Kathua rape case. They were apparently expressing solidarity with the victim but were knowingly or inadvertently breaking the law. These are just two examples but social media is a forest where there are no laws and if there are, they are observed in the breach.

 Take for instance, the recent pastime of many Malayalis, trolling. Are those indulging in this activity aware of the repurcussions and consequences? We find out.
 Social media expert Hiran Venugopalan says that when it comes to trolls or memes, as he calls it, there might be individual trolls and group organised ones. “While creating a meme is as easy as creating a text, it is necessary to verify that the content that you put out does not have any element of racism, sexism or the like.”
 
 The trend of pongala idal (group trolling) by Malayalis on social media is nothing less than a “tragedy”, he points out. During such occasions — a case in point being the profanities showed on the page of tennis player Maria Sharapova for saying that she does not know who Sachin Tendulkar was — the onlookers rather than criticising the fellow Malayalis’ behaviour, joined the online bullying tribe, Hiran points out. He says that mass trolling of celebrities is perhaps the “result of social conditioning and a reflection of the shallow society we live in”. By joining in the pongala, they attempt to belong to the so-called majority.
 
 There are also hoax news being spread, and this is not restricted to Malayalis alone. One recent example was the fake news that Raghuram Rajan, the former Governor of the RBI, has been elected as the chief of the Bank of England while the fact was only that his name was being discussed among the possible contenders for the post. “While such fake forwards are being circulated, a censorship will not be of help. What can be expressed or shared comes out of the basic awareness of its repercussions on social media. Also, there has to be an improvement in the etiquette of people on cyber space, just the way we try to nurture a civic sense among the citizens in the real world,” he says. 
 
 Lack of awareness of the rules that can apply when it comes to activities in the cyber space is what leads to such problems, according to Pramod Y T, the officer in charge, Cyber Cell, Kochi.
 
 “In our state, nearly 70% of the victims and accused on cyber space belong to the age group ranging from 13 to 27. Some may be even younger though the guidelines of Facebook require them to be 13 or above.”
 
 Advocate Nidhin S says that there are several sections in the Constitution that have a bearing on our activities on the cyber space besides specific laws that have been framed. “IPC section 499 stands against any act of defamation, and it is clearly stated that, ‘Whoever defames another shall be punished for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both’. Section 66E of the Information Technology Act 2000 says that whoever publishes or transmits the image of a private area of any person without his or her consent shall be punished with three years’ imprisonment. There is also a section against cyber terrorists through Section 66F under the same act to punish anyone who threatens the unity, integrity, security and sovereignity of India.”
 
 That’s not all. Under Section 67A, people publishing or transmitting materials containing sexually explicit acts in electronic form are liable to attract upto seven years’ imprisonment. “Section 67 focuses on those publishing or transmitting obscene material in electronic form and may extend to three years’ punishment. Section 66C indicates that forging someone’s password or account is strictly punishable.” If netizens were aware of these sections, they would think twice before indulging in anything anti-social, he says.
 
 Pramod says that every year, the number of recorded cyber crimes are increasing by 15 to 20%. In his estimate, nearly 40% of the netizens use social media to send or share pornographic content while an even bigger number use it to watch porn videos and photos.
 
  He adds that while many presume that they might easily get away with things, what they fail to understand is that it is a platform where the authorities can collate evidence very easily — be it through software or hardware. “We found that there were at least 15 fake profiles in the name of actress Kavya Madhavan, through which the people concerned tried to have interactions with other celebrities from the industry.” 
 
 He adds, “Students should be made aware of the legal side in cyber space from the school level itself.” Agrees Thasneem Muhammed, a student from Karyavattom Campus, Thiruvanantha-puram: “‘Think before you type’ is hardly practised. Awareness is the need of the hour.”
 
 Information assistant Deepthi Renjith, from Thiruvananthapuram, says she is always alert and careful about what she is posting online. “We live at a time when we are judged because of our social media presence and how we respond to people. We must not intentionally hurt anyone or promote someone who does the same, as it may push the person on the receiving end further into an abyss.”
 
 
