CHANDIGARH: The campaign for Shahkot assembly bypoll is awaiting a last-minute push. Scorching heat and focus on neighbourhood meetings has resulted in a largely lackluster campaign for the high-stake contest between Congress and Akalis. The Aam Aadmi Party ( ) too is the fray sans star-campaigner and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann.

  
  
 
 With a win, Congress hopes to reach a two-third majority in assembly, with 78 seats in the house of 117. Shahkot has traditionally been an Akali seat and the opposition party is keen on retaining it. 
 
 For AAP’s newly-appointed co-president Balbir Singh, it is more of a question of proving a point to make his party fare well without Mann and Kharar MLA Kanwar Sandhu. 
 
 The bypoll has been necessitated after the demise of Akali MLA and former minister Ajit Singh Kohar earlier this year.
 
 SAD was the first to name its candidate, Kohar’s son Naib Singh, while the Congress suffered a setback with an FIR being registered against its nominee, Hardev Singh Laddi, soon after his candidature was announced. Laddi has also been facing opposition from a group of local Congress workers. AAP, too, had its share of problems with a section of state leadership reportedly expressing reservations about contesting the election.
 
 Meanwhile, Capt Sandeep Sandhu, a Congress general secretary who has been camping in Shahkot, said the party’s campaign had actually been vibrant with cabinet ministers like   and Navjot Sidhu pitching in. “Capt Amarinder Singh had accompanied the party candidate, which set the pace for us. The enthusiasm among party workers is the same as it was during the recent Gurdaspur Lok Sabha bypoll and a roadshow led by the CM will certainly give more fillip,” he said.
 
 On the other hand, SAD leader Daljeet Singh Cheema said the chief minister had delegated the campaign to Rana Gurjit, and others and had not showed up after nominations. 
 
 SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal has been leading the campaign all through. “If there is fair play, the seat will definitely go to Akalis. Before Shahkot, this area was under Lohia assembly constituency and former Akali finance minister Balwant Singh used to represent it,” Cheema added.
 
 AAP leaders are looking forward to Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia to give the much-needed impetus to the party’s campaig, with a road show on May 25. “AAP candidate (Rattan Singh) has a good public connect and is popular because of his philanthropic activities. Party MLAs have been helping him with his campaign and the campaign has turned out well,” he said.
 
 
 
