PANAJI: There was much excitement in   on Sunday as a third flippered visitor landed at the turtle nesting site at the River Chapora mouth for nesting. 

 A nest with 109 eggs was found on Morjim beach early Sunday morning. “This is the third one after two were laid on January 14 and 27,” a source said. While Galgibaga adjoining   beach and Mandrem in Morjim’s neighbourhood have not reported any nesting so far, forest staff is keeping watch over eight nests in Agonda.
 
 Goa’s modest turtle conservation programme has been considered a success, but environmentalists are worried over the increasing number of animal stranding and lack of seriousness on the government’s part to initiate measures to protect marine species.
 
 A dead Olive Ridley turtle washed up ashore at   on Saturday, and three days earlier, a dolphin was found dead on Vagator beach, adding to the worrisome statistics of marine species, either critically injured or found dead along the state’s 105km coastline.
 
 “This being the nesting season, the turtle was probably heading towards the shore, but was mortally injured on the way,” said Puja Mitra, founder of Terra Conscious, a marine conservation organization.
 
 The marine species present in coastal waters are overrun by fishing vessels and water sports sector. Some of the animals, especially turtles, surface for nesting during safe hours. “The turtle looked healthy except for the gash on its carapace that looked like a fatal collision with a boat,” a source said.
 
 The total number of dead turtles during the last seven months has mounted to 17 and dolphins to 12, while eight injured turtles had been released into the sea after treatment.
 
 In the past, several deaths of turtles and dolphins were being reported in random fashion along the coast. An exercise ‘Ocean watch’, coordinated by the forest department,   and Terra Conscious, is ensuring data collection statistics that may help assess the seriousness of the threat to the much-loved marine animals. 
 
 The total number of dead turtles during the last seven months has mounted to 17 and dolphins to 12, while eight injured turtles had been released into the sea after treatment
 
 
