Pune: A sessions court convicted a man from Rahatni and sentenced him to three years of rigorous imprisonment for subjecting his wife to cruelty and driving her to suicide in December 2015. While the maximum sentence for the abetment offence is 10 years’ imprisonment, the assistant sessions judge Sanjashree Gharat was lenient with the convict, Balaji Abhimanyu Shirsathe, as he does not have relatives to look after his two children and has no previous criminal record. The court said the three and two years’ sentences for the abetment and cruelty offences respectively will run concurrently.  His wife Madhuri had ended her life by hanging herself from a ceiling fan in their one-room house on December 26, 2015. Her father Ganesh Bagade lodged an FIR with the Wakad police, accusing Balaji of physically and mentally harassing Madhuri, as he wanted money from Ganesh to make up for his lack of earning and fiscal contribution to the family.  Balaji was defensive during the trial and said he was being falsely accused. He did not enter the witness box either, and preferred to rely on his statement recorded under the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure.  The prosecution examined nine witnesses in support of its case. Nothing came out of the cross-examination of the witnesses by the defence lawyer. Other evidence such as medical report, spot panchanama and police investigation were also taken into consideration.  Box:  WHAT HAPPENED - Balaji Abhimanyu Shirsathe’s wife Madhuri had committed suicide on December 26, 2015  - Her father Ganesh Bagade lodged an FIR against Balaji, accusing him of harassing her and driving her to suicide  - During the trial at a sessions court, Balaji refused to enter the witness box when the prosecution examined him and relied on his statement recorded under CrPC - Balaji’s defence was that he was being falsely accused of the crime  - While convicting Balaji of subjecting his wife to cruelty and abetting her suicide, the judge took a lenient stance and sentenced him to three and two years in prison for the abetment and cruelty offences respectively, which will run concurrently 