CHANDIGARH: Doctors in   have started hash tagging #NoScare in closed groups on social media projecting huge patient rush akin to ‘Mumbai bridge-like situation’. Capping of patients in OPDs can’t be feasible and even back referrals to Government Medical College and Hospital 32 and Government Multispecialty Hospital, Sector 16 has failed, the faculty has written. They fear compromise on quality and spread of infections acquired from hospitals.

 Projecting the numbers to be 10,000 in every OPD, the faculty has expressed fear that the departments can become unmanageable beyond a point. One of the faculty mentioned, “If the average growth of 7-8% in last 7 years is any indication, we are expected to receive 36 lakh patients in year 2022. #No-Scare.”
 
 Worried by these ever swelling numbers,   has agreed to increase its manpower by recruiting 300 faculty, 250 resident doctors and 50 technical staff. “This is a challenge which we face almost every day. That is why the process for approval to hire more staff has started. This will also take few years,” said PGI director  .
 
 Concerned about the spread of infection due to huge inflow of patients, another faculty discussed how patients can sue the doctors for transmission of infections. “Essentially infection control goes for a toss, especially in OPDs and emergency units. So, not only are we not able to deliver quality care, we are actually harming patients by being agents of transmission of many infectious (and drug resistant) organisms.”
 
 While concerns have been aired, there are few suggestions like capping the numbers in special clinics and also referring back to the GMCH and GMSH. “A screening OPD run by senior medical officers guided by senior residents to segregate and refer patients to clinics will save time for patients. Patients requiring clinic referral to be given appointment on firstcome-first-serve basis with a cap on numbers,” mentioned a faculty.
 
 But can this process of reverse referral work? One of the faculty writes, “Reverse referral was attempted by   during his tenure as director in PGI in the emergency medicine OPD. The attempt proved unsuccessful not only at state level but also at the local city level. Those centres that had referred patients to PGIMER refused to accept them back. So all ideas of de-congestion have to be innovated at local level only. Capping is the only viable option.”
 
