After  's win at the Miss World 2017, the UP auditions of fbb   2018, co powered by   and Rajnigandha Pearls, on Sunday, received an overwhelming response. Organised a the fbb/ Big Bazaar store in Sahara Ganj mall, the auditions saw over 150 participants, who came from various parts of the state. The state-wise audition concept this year is based on the principle - my state and my purpose. Winners of Uttar Pradesh's auditions are Himanshi, fbb Campus Princess 2018 finalist,   and  . The auditions were judged by  , fbb Colors Femina Miss India Uttar Pradesh 2017, Lucknowite  , Peter England Mr India World 2017, designers   and   Narain. "All the participants in the auditions were beauties with brains. It was difficult for us to choose the winners. I just wish a UP girl wins the crown this time too," said Jitesh.

  
  (L) Shefali Sood (R) Anju Narain, Jitesh Singh Deo and Asma Hussain (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)
 
 Feeling nostalgic judging the auditions, Shefali said, "Last year exactly at the same time I was a contestant too. I'm excited to see who is going to succeed me. I hope whoever it is, lives up to the standards set and brings laurels to the state and the country."
 An excited Anju shared, "It is a fabulous platform for these young girls who aspire not only to serve their state but the entire country."
  Asma, who has judged the auditions before too, was quite happy with the turnout this year. "The event was great and I wish all the winners good luck," said Asma.
 The top three winners will be trained and groomed by experts in the industry and get a chance to meet their mentor Neha Dhupia at the North zonal crowning ceremony in Delhi at The Leela Kempinski ambience And Convention centre on April 12, 2018. The finalists will go to Delhi for the North zonal crowning ceremony of fbb Colors Femina Miss India 2018. Neha, who said she's excited to meet the finalists, is looking forward to judging the fbb Colors Femina Miss India 2018.
 Watch your state finalists at the finale of fbb Colors Femina Miss India North 2018, LIVE on JioTV on 12th April, 9pm onwards.
 By Abhishek.Shukla2@timesgroup.com
 
