LUCKNOW: Congress leadership is planning a major overhaul of its state unit and putting a young team in place and replacing old guns. Major structural changes are in the offing for a revamp and preparing the party for 2019 elections, sources said.

 “We have to strengthen the party organisation. A lot of people have been working diligently for the party, even though we don’t really have enough means now. Those who have contributed in any way will be brought forward. We would also like to promote youth and women in the new team,” said   president Raj Babbar.
 
 “Search is on for a young person in 40s, not involved in any controversy, for the post of state chief. Like all state presidents, Raj Babbar also tendered resignation at plenary session and has been asked to continue till the appointment of his successor,” sources said.
 
 
 The party is looking for a Brahmin candidate to suit the possible mega alliance taking shape in UP. Several names have been doing the rounds for the past fortnight, including that of Congress MP Pramod Tewari’s daughter Aradhana Mishra and senior vice-president Rajesh Mishra, who has been associated with Congress since early 1980s and is known for his commitment to the party. Rajesh faces criticism for not stepping out of his comfort zone Varanasi and around.
 
 Former CM and noted Congress leader Kamlapati Tripathi’s son Lalitesh is also said to be in the race as he hogged reasonable limelight during the Congress plenary.
 
 
 Former MP Jitin Prasada is also among probables since he enjoyed the trust of   and was a part of his core team once but has lost some of it lately. “It is learnt that Rahul is not happy with Jitin’s flamboyant nature and absence from the field,” sources said.
 
 
 Congress MLC   from Amethi is also a strong contender as he is known to be a ‘go getter’. There is also possibility of UPCC being pruned in size. Sources indicated that 50%-80% of the current team may be replaced. The change has been on the cards since the not so impressive performance of Congress in December 2017 local body elections.
 
 
 “There are indications that at least 50% of the new team could be below 50, which means that a lot of new faces would be assigned important responsibilities,” said a UPCC member.
 
 
 “The   will be brought down from about 400 members now to around 100. The party will have to tread carefully and keep the team happy as elections are not far away,” said sources.
 
 
