The last time legendary singers SP Balasubrahmanyam and KJ   came together for a song was the now cult Kaatukkuyilu Manasukkula in Mani Ratnam’s Thalapathy. Now, the veterans have not only sung together, but also acted together in a song in the upcoming film Keni, directed by MA Nishad. The film, a Tamil-Malayalam bilingual, stars seasoned actors like Jayapradha, Revathy, Radhakrishnan Parthiban, Nasser, Anu Hassan and  .

 “SPB sir and Yesudas sir have sung the song Ayya Saamy, which talks about brotherhood between Tamilians and Malayalis. The film’s plot revolves around a dispute over a well in the border between these two states, and I wanted to stress the fact that nature has no boundaries and it is only man who creates these borders,” says Nishad, who adds that both   and Yesudas were excited about being a part of it and recorded the song, a festival number, in Hyderabad. 
 
 He also convinced the two singers to be part of the film as well. “They will be appearing in the song and we have shot them together for it three weeks ago in Chennai,” he reveals. 
 
 Talking about the film, he says, “I have done seven   films and every one of them were on socially relevant subjects. This film deals with water scarcity. I believe that the next world war will be one that is fought over water, and the film asks the question who the custodian of water is.”
 
 Being a native of Punalur, a village on the TN-Kerala border, Nishad recalls how he used to see starkly different scenes on both sides of the border. “In our side, there would be an abundance of water, and people would even take bath twice, but if you cross over to the other   side, people would be desperately needing water. In the film, a well becomes the source of conflict; it is one of the characters,” he says. 
 
 He says that he chose experienced actors because he wanted performers to tell this tale. “I wanted actors who could make the film and its subject the talk of the town,” says Nishad, who adds that while the content is the same in both Tamil and Malayalam (titled Kinar), the treatment will be different in the two versions. 
 
 
