CHANDIGARH: A petition has been filed before the   and Haryana high court, seeking a review of the judgement through which the court had asked the Haryana Backward Classes Commission to decide on reservation to Jat and five other communities.

 In its September 1, 2017 orders, a division bench headed by Justice S S Saron of the HC had upheld the constitutional validity of the Haryana Backward Classes (Reservation in services and admission in educational institutions) Act 2016, but ordered to stay quota for the six communities till the matter was not decided by the backward commission.
 
 Further directions were issued to the state backward commission to gather the quantifiable data regarding the issue by November 30, 2017 and invite claims or objections from concerned parties by December 31, 2017. The bench had directed the commission to take a decision on the issue by March 31. The orders were passed by the bench after hearing a petition filed by   of Bhiwani district.
 
 In the review petition filed on Friday, Gupta has sought invalidation of the 2016 Act on the grounds that the exercise for determining the backwardness of the Jat community was not conducted.
 
 “The petitioner had not challenged the validity and legality of the entire Act, but had challenged only Schedule III of the Act providing reservation to Jat and five other castes under the backward classes (block C) in the petition. But the HC had upheld the entire Act. The state had considered Justice K C Gupta commission report to formulate the Act and since the   has already rejected Gupta Commission’s report, therefore the enactment of part-III of the Act is unconstitutional and deserved to be set aside,” petitioner’s counsel Mukesh Verma has submitted while seeking a review of previous judgement. The matter has now been fixed for March 9 for further hearing.
 
 The Haryana Backward Classes (Reservation in services and admission in educational institutions) Act was enacted by the state in 2016. It provided reservation to Jat and five other communities under a newly carved backward class (C) category. Five other communities were Jat Sikh, Mulla Jat/Muslim Jat, Bishnoi, Ror and Tyagi who were also entitled to get 10% reservation in government services and admission to educational institutions.
 
 However, on May 26, 2016, a division bench of the HC had stayed the reservation to these communities after hearing a petition alleging that with the passing of the new Act, the reservation has reached around 70%, which can’t exceed beyond 50% as per the law laid down by the apex court.
 
 The matter is now pending before the state backward commission, which has to take a final decision by March 31.
 
 
