INDORE: Over 200 applications claiming Rs10crore refund under   have been filed by exporters in the entire state with  . 70 per cent of the refund claim is from Indore. 

 Refund of exporters under the new tax regime has been delayed by over six months since the roll out of GST owing to various changes in the mode of refund by  . The delay in the refund blocked the working capital of exporters. Commercial tax department deputy commissioner   said, "The process of refunds under 8 categories has started. The state and Centre have divided jurisdiction of dealers among themselves, who are eligible for refund."
 
 Every eligible dealer is assigned either to the state or center to avail tax refund. The process of refund to exporters has been initiated for a fortnight extending until March 29 under CGST and SGST. 
 
 Delay in refund process adversely hit exporters business forcing many business entities to avail fresh loans to keep their business running. 
 
 Gupta said, exporters will get 90 per cent of the refund amount within 7 days of receiving the application while the rest will be released in another 60 days.   (FIEO) president Ganesh Kumar Gupta said, "Clearance of IGST and ITC refund of exporters through Refund Fortnight initiative from March 15-29 by CBEC and state commercial tax departments will help in changing the decelerating trend of growth in exports."
 
 Industry officials expect refund of exporters under CGST will be faster than SGST due to fully developed mechanism with the Centre. 
 
 Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) Madhya Pradesh state council vice-chairman Rajesh Khare said, "The process of refund got so much delayed under GST. Though the government has initiated the process of release, hopefully it will bring the industry back on the track."
 
 Chartered accountant Kirti Joshi said, "Initially GST refund claim forms were not available on the portal, then the online process of sanctions were slow that resulted in blocking of the working capital of exporters."
 
 
