When 'Deadpool' hit the cinema screens in 2016, it was a superhero film unlike any other before it. The film had abundant doses of severed limbs, body parts flying about, plenty of blood and gore, and jokes about human genitalia were a dime a dozen. If international reviewers – who have seen the pre-release previews – are to be believed, '  2', which hit the screens friday, only takes this violence a notch higher. However, despite all that, the Central Board for Film Certification in India (CBFC) has cleared 'Deadpool 2' for release with no cuts at all. Apart from giving the film an expected A-rating and beeping out a couple of profanities, the film has largely escaped the Indian censor board’s legendary scissors. Compare that to reports that the   has asked for 17 cuts in the Hindi version of Kamal Haasan’s upcoming 'Viswaroopam 2', and it seems 'Deadpool 2' gas gotten a pretty sweet deal from the Indian censor board. News reports quoted sources from within the CBFC as saying, “'Deadpool 2' has got no cuts as such. A few words have been beeped out and nothing else. All the scenes have been retained, giving the viewers a better experience.”

  
  
 
 This liberal and lenient treatment for what is arguably the most violent superhero film ever is surprising but not entirely against the norm, at least as far as Deadpool is concerned. Last year, the film’s first teaser included a sequence where Deadpool changes into his costume in a phone booth in an obvious homage to Superman. The scene featured a shot of Deadpool’s bare butt being pressed against the phone booth, which was again not cut from the trailer by the CBFC.  , the then CBFC chief had explained this decision, saying, “The trailer that we’ve been shown for censor approval is not a full-fledged bum shot. It’s a bum shot in a blur. The hero is changing in a telephone booth. We see his bum from outside a semi-opaque glass pane. If it was a proper bum shot we would have probably cut it. So unless the trailer being shown in the internet has a clear bum shot there is nothing to get hot and bothered about.”
 
 Even the first 'Deadpool' film was released in India with just seven visual cuts. In contrast, Quentin Tarantion’s 'The Hateful Eight', which released the same year, had several cuts (amounting to over 90 seconds) and all visuals of chopping of hands were reduced by 50%, something that 'Deadpool' escaped. The CBFC also demanded cutting down kissing scenes in the 2015 Bond film 'Spectre' by 20 seconds, apart from beeping several words, leading to many #SanskaariBond memes on the internet. Interestingly, 'Kya Kool Hain Hum 3', which released just a month before 'Deadpool', earned 34 cuts from the CBFC.
 
  
  A still from Deadpool 2
 
 
 But then even as other   and Bollywood flicks continue to face the censor’s wrath, what makes Deadpool such an exception? The answer, probably, lies in the way the franchise treats its violent content – by interspersing it with a heavy dose of laughter.  , who plays the titular ‘merc with a mouth’, feels that because the film’s violence is graphic but not in-your-face, it does not come across as gratuitous. “It might be the most violent (superhero movie ever). But violence in our movies is always undercut by humour and comedy. So, there is a kind of palatability that happens because of that,” Reynolds had said in an interview in 2016. The fact that even Deadpool does not take all this violence seriously and injects humour into violent situations makes the violence and profanities less edgy. Actor TJ Miller, who plays Wade’s friend and confidante Weasel in the film, offers a similar explanation. “The ultra-violence is kind of silly and funny. That scene (in the first film) where he has a certain number of bullets is sort of ridiculous but incredibly violent. The torture is very raw but it’s not bloody or gory. The language can be very heavy-duty but it’s still silly,” Miller had said in an interview after the first film. Deadpool 2 is releasing in cinemas today.
 
 
