NEW DELHI: Joining forces with  , AGMUT-cadre IAS   serving in Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Mizoram and Union Territories have decided to observe a five-minute silence at 1.30pm starting Monday as a mark of protest against the alleged   on chief secretary Anshu Prakash.

 
 All Delhi officers are likely to report to work wearing black bands, which were first worn by government school teachers on Saturday. Reiterating their demand for “safety and dignity” at work, the officers have been demanding an apology from chief minister Arvind Kejriwal.
 
 Sources said that all government officials posted in union territories are going to   the five-minute silence on Monday. It is also learnt that all state officers’ federations are likely to hold silent protests for five minutes once a week on a day of their choice at their offices.
 
 What began as a protest over the alleged attack on Prakash is now being seen by many as an assault on the federal structure of India. The all-India services, which include IAS, IPS and Indian Forest Services, were set up under the Constitution to safeguard the federal structure of the country. Hence, the assault on the CS is an attack on the federal framework, top bureaucrats explained.
 
 It is learnt that officers have been sharing information and their concerns with the political executive in a closed WhatsApp group. Some have even shared their experiences of alleged harassment at the hands of the members of the ruling AAP dispensation. It is here that they are deciding what needs to be put out in the public domain under the banner of the joint forum of officers.
 
 Over the last few days, the officers have also been sharing their views and concerns through two Twitter handles, one of which is named “Delhi Government Employees Association.” This handle was created when the Delhi officers launched their protest. 
 
 The other Twitter handle is of the IAS   association. Letters of support, official stand of the joint forum of officers, views and news reports are being shared on these platforms.
 
 
