PATNA: A day after the Sangeet and Mehndi ceremonies of   Lalu Prasad and Rabri Devi’s son   on Wednesday, the family patriarch arrived home after over five months of imprisonment in a Ranchi jail to attend the wedding.

 Lalu has been released on three-day parole for the purpose. He is serving jail term after his conviction in four of the six cases pertaining to Rs 1,000-crore foder scam that rocked undivided Bihar in 1990s when   was the CM.
 
 “Our joy knows no bounds. This marriage would have lost grandeur had Lalu ji not attended it,” said MLA Bhola Yadav, a close family confidante.
 
 He said party affairs could be managed without the RJD chief, but the marriage of his elder son would have been incomplete without him. “We had applied for five-day parole, but he got three days to bless his son and daughter-in-law,” Bhola said.
 
 Tej is tying the knot with former CM Daroga Prasad Rai’s granddaughter Aishwarya Rai on May 12. 
 
 Lalu loyalists were seen dancing to the accompaniment of drumbeats outside Rabri’s 10, Circular Road residence soon after the news of Lalu’s arrival spread. Marriage songs rent the air inside the house even as party leaders poured in to meet Lalu.
 
 Lalu arrived by an IndiGo flight which landed in Patna around 6.40pm. He was given a ‘heroic’ welcome by hundreds of party workers and supporters at the airport.
 
 The marriage ceremony is to be held in waterproof pandals being erected at the sprawling ground of a veterinary college in Patna. A large pandal has been erected for VIP guests, while another pandal has been erected for the feast. 
 
 The function is likely to be attended by many political stalwarts. Lalu’s daughters Ragini and Raj Lakshmi Yadav last week called on former Congress president Sonia Gandhi in Delhi to invite her to the wedding. Former Uttar Pradesh CM Akhilesh Yadav is also likely to attend the wedding.
 
 Tej has personally given invitation cards to Bihar who’s who, including governor Satya Pal Malik and deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi. His sister and Rajya Sabha member Misa Bharti met CM Nitish Kumar to invite him.
 
 Aishwarya's father and former minister Chandrika Rai has told the media that the food menu would be traditional. “Only vegetarian food will be served to guests,” he said.
 
 
