In the latest episode of  , Shaurya, who is in the disguise of a fake government officer, is about to leave his house when he sees the real police officials entering the home and gets tensed.   call the cops and   gets worried thinking that Anjali has come to know that he is a fake income tax officer. Meanwhile, Mehek’s phone rings and she comes to know that   has got into labour. 

 Anjali asks the inspector to arrest Shaurya and Mehek as they posed as fake IT officers and had entered her house with the intention of robbery. She starts blaming Shaurya and says that she is the owner of the property and that's the reason he is trying to exploit her. Shaurya tells her that she manipulated his mother and got the property papers signed.
 
 Shaurya tries to burn the property papers but Anjali stops him from doing so. The inspector points gun at Shaurya and arrests him. In another scene, Mehek is waiting for Shaurya and   asks her about Shaurya's whereabouts. Anjali comes to their house and informs them that Shaurya has been arrested. Karuna is about to slap Anjali, who grabs her hand. 
 
 Mehek and Karuna reach police station where Anjali tells the cops to not give bail to Shaurya. Anjali taunts Mehek that because of her Sooraj had to go to jail and she will not allow Shaurya to come out of the jail as well. Anjali tells the cops that Mehek and Karuna are threatening to kill her. 
 
 Mehek and Shaurya tell Anjali that she has dug her own grave as it was a part of their plan to get Shaurya arrested. Shaurya and Mahek smile at each other.
 
 Mehek then tells Anjali that she is ready to be her slave forever and she will do anything but she wants Shaurya out of the jail. Anjali agrees to keep Mehek and Dolly as her servants and asks them to cook good food as she has kept a party and guests would be coming soon. Anjali tells them that if she likes their food then she will bring Shaurya out of the jail. 
 
 Mehek tells Dolly that Anjali won't let Shaurya come out of jail and their master plan has to be good. Shaurya calls Mehek from jail and is worried about her health. 
 
 The party starts and Anjali drinks wine that was given to her by Mehek. She starts coughing and falls unconscious on the sofa. The guests rush towards Anjali and notice blood coming from Anjali's mouth.
 
 
