In the latest episode of  , Suhana thanks Naira for arranging a dinner date for her and Shubham but says she cannot enjoy it alone. Naira says everything will be alright and Dadi comes in and questions Naira.

 Dadi tells Naira that it wasn't right for Suhana and Shubham to meet so frequently before getting married. Dadi appreciates Suhana and asks Naira to be careful the next time. As Dadi leaves, Naira notices an evil smile on Suhana's face.
 
 Naira talks to Kartik and says that the next time around they will have to be even more careful. They decide to take Kirti and Naksh’s help for the plan.
 
 Luv and Kush notice that Naira’s picture was getting a lot of likes from one guy on social media. Kartik also points out the same to Naira.
 
 Kartik and Naira make a plan and talk in front of Suhana about jewellery that was kept in the house. Naira decides to drop a key in front of her and watches how she behaves.
 
 Luv and Kush are happy that they are going to Singhania house for lunch. Everybody is busy with work but nobody gives Kirti any work.
 
 Naira tells Dadi about becoming a sensation on the internet with her dance videos. Everybody prepares to go except Suhana, who fakes having a migraine so that she could look for the jewellery to steal, as per Naira's plan.
 
 Naira gets flowers from one of her fans. As she gets in the car, a stranger takes her videos secretly. They stay back in the car while the others leave. Suhana, who stays behind at the Goenka house sends the servant for some work and picks up the keys planted by Naira. Kartik. 
 
 Naira see their plan working. Kirti sees everybody taking care of her and feels guilty for throwing away the kadha in the past. She apologizes to Devyaani, Naksh consoles her.
 
 Kartik and Naira hide behind a curtain waiting for Suhana to do the next move and look for the jewellery. Suhana calls Rahul to the house, hoping that they will get to steal a lot of items.
 
 Kartik and Naira wonder what was taking Suhana so long when they spot Rahul in the room. They are shocked and think that Suhana lied to them about her family being in Pushkar. Kartik gets even more suspicious and decides to find out the truth.
 
