Post-wedding weight gain is a given in our country. The bride and groom are bound to get a 'little on the heavier' side is the popular notion. For Niriksha Pandey, this post-wedding weight gain started getting to her when her loved ones started calling her names, like fatty. Rather than giving up on herself, Niriksha took the right turn and decided to lose weight. Read about her 
  to find out how this new bride lost 15 kilos in 3.5 months!

 
  Niriksha Pandey
  
  
  25
  
  
  69.5 kilos
  
  
  15 kilos in 3.5 months 
  
  
  After marriage, since I had gained weight, everyone around me started calling me names, such as fatty or elephant. My in-laws and my own mother started criticising me. I couldn’t fit into my clothes. From XL, I had suddenly shifted to XXL even without realizing when that happened. And my energy levels were also very low. It was only then that I decided to change things.
 
 
  
 1 glass warm lemon water
 
 
  1 bowl makhana and 1 apple 
  
  
  1 chapati with 1 bowl of dal and vegetables 
 
 
 1 bowl of fruit with 5 almonds and 5 pistachios
  
  
  100 ml coconut water 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Every day I went for a 3-km walk, followed by 30 minutes of cycling and yoga for 15 minutes.
 
 
  
  Some of the secrets I unveiled:
 
 1.Home cooked food is the best.
 
 2.Do not eat junk food or outside food.
 
 3.Try and make your favourites at home only.
 
 4.Do not sleep right after eating your meal.
 
 
 
  Fitting into my old clothes is what keeps me going. Also, fitting into clothes I like is a big motivation as well. With regular exercise and diet routine, I could achieve this. This is my guiding force.
 
 
 
 Being called a jumbo and all other body shaming jokes can take a toll on you. Further, health issues are a big concern as well.
 
 
  
  I will continue to maintain my weight as I have seen the bad consequences of being overweight.
 
 
  I became so bulky that my mother told me I looked unappealing and even my husband had started making fun of my weight.
  
 
 Listening to your body is very important. This will help you grow mentally, physically and emotionally. I feel so confident about myself now and I am very energetic and relaxed.
 
 
 
 
