JAIPUR:   Birjania, a 22-year-old constable attached to the PCR van of   police station, was on night duty from late evening on Friday. But, after the fire accident, he has not been able to eat or sleep on Saturday.

 The cop was the one who climbed to the first floor of the burning house at Sector 9 of Vidhyadhar Nagar in the early hours and rescued 16-year-old   who was still breathing. The teen later died on the way to the hospital.
 
 Like everyone who tried to help the five who died in the fire, Birjania was shattered and full of regrets that he couldn’t save any of the victims.
 
 When the police control room intimated the PCR van at Vidhyadhar Nagar, Desraj was the youngest among the policemen who reached the spot at 4.20 am. While there are allegations that the firemen were reluctant to go inside the house, Desraj had no such problems and entered the house to search for trapped people in the darkness.
 
 “Without thinking even for a second, he climbed on to the first floor of the house on fire with some ropes. Despite the intensity of the heat, he entered the first floor and rescued trapped Animesh Garg who was still breathing but unconscious,” said  , a neighbour who was at the spot when the police arrived.
 
 Desraj was also later joined by another neighbour. “It was all dark and smoky. I switched on the light of my mobile phone to look for people stuck inside. I saw a boy, identified later as Animesh, who was breathing. I tied him with the rope and dropped him. He was rushed in a local vehicle to a nearby hospital. The other boy, identified as  , had already died and I took his body down,” said Desraj, who joined the police services in 2015.
 
 Desraj and his PCR team left after other policemen arrived at the spot. He went to his quarters situated close to the Vidhyadhar Nagar police station. “I was on night duty but still couldn’t sleep. Somebody told me that the boy who was rescued by me had also died,” he said. The brave heart also alleged that people at the spot were either cribbing or standing like mute spectators.
 
 Other policemen attached to the PCR van, who were on night duty, were also still in shock. “Had it been a village, lives could have been saved as people in urban areas remain mute spectators. In villages, people have the courage to act if somebody is in danger,” said a senior officer.
 
