Ludhiana: Ludhiana-born Canadian couple, Sherjang Singh Rana and Harpreet Rana, who hit the headlines when they accompanied Canadian prime minister Justin Trudeau’s business delegation to India, will soon launch an initiative to support Punjabi students going to Canada.

 Speaking to the TOI, Harpreet said, “Punjab is our janambhumi and Canada karmbhumi. Our doors are always open to the Punjabis visiting Canada. A big number of Punjabi students come to Canada every year and we would like to support them, so that they need not do odd jobs. We are planning an initiative in this direction and it will be hopefully finalised and announced soon.”
 
 Besides, they plan to open branches of their insurance broking firm in Punjab, including Ludhiana and Chandigarh, announced the couple during a ceremony held to honour them here on Monday evening. Rana’s company is among the leading insurance brokers of Canada with presence in all major cities and districts.
 
 About bringing his company to India, Sherjang, who completed his graduation from Government College for Boys, Civil Lines, here, said, “No feeling is greater than doing something for your motherland and what could be better than opening an office here. Moreover, as majority of our customers are Punjabis who visit Canada on different types of visas, we will be able to give them better and prompt services. We will open our first office at Chandigarh in the coming months and we have already shortlisted sites for it. Then we will expand to other cities as well.” 
 
 Sherjang’s ancestral home is in Indra Nagar, near the bus stand, and he is nephew of Punjabi folksinger late Narinder Biba. Harpreet belongs to Sarabha Nagar and is an alumna of city’s Khalsa College for Women. She is actively involved in running the affairs of their company and manages the marketing part of the business. Narrating her experience as part of Trudeau’s delegation, she said they felt blessed to have received so much love and affection from their people.
 
 At the felicitation ceremony, the couple was honoured by former Vidhan Sabha speaker Charanjit Singh Atwal, MLA Kuldeep Singh Vaid and Congress leaders Jassi Khangura and Bhupinder Sidhu.
 
 NAME GAME
 
 The Ranas said the foundation stone of their company was laid in 2006 and when they were thinking of a name for their venture, people advised not to have ethnic tones to it. But as both were attached to their homeland, they named their company after Punjab and since then there has been no looking back as they were able to strike a chord with the diaspora. 
 
 
