Ludhiana: After the closure of one side of Jagraon Bridge for its reconstruction work, Gill Chowk Flyover had taken load of the maximum traffic moving from the city bus stand towards Delhi and Chandigarh Road, as two arteries of the industrial town have been blocked. Officials claimed it would take almost a month to repair the bridge, and the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) would do it, but residents complained about how long they would have to face  .

 On Monday, long queues of vehicles were seen from Preet Palace Chowk to Gill Chowk Flyover, and from Vishwakarma Chowk to Jagraon Bridge. There was traffic jam near Partap Chowk, as buses were made to move first through Gill Road and then Partap Chowk, adding to the woes of commuters. Traffic was seen crawling on Monday at almost every road falling on this stretch.
 
 Raising concerns, Sanjay Goel — city-based architect and one of the directors of Smart City Mission — said it was a very disturbing development for people that an already old and famous Jagraon Bridge had been closed for heavy vehicular movement for the past two years approximately, while the Ferozepur Road was under construction due to the elevated road project being undertaken by NHAI. He said the newly-built Southern Bypass along Sidhwan Canal is also a bad example of design and execution, while Pakhowal Road was too narrow.
 
 Model Town resident Kamaljit Singh said: “There is total chaos on the city’s main roads due to project works, and now the collapse of a retaining wall of Gill Chowk Flyover is sure to give the jitters to commuters.” He said authorities should get the flyover repaired as soon as possible.
 
 Meanwhile, keeping in view the city’s traffic scenario, a meeting was conducted by police commissioner SS Gill, deputy commissioner Pradeep Aggarwal, and MC commissioner Jaskiran Singh on Monday. The bus stand authorities have been told to shift the Bus Stand on a temporary basis outside the city.
 
 Vehicles coming from Focal Point, Dhandhari, and Kanganwal towards Sarabha Nagar and Aggar Nagar will use the Southern Bypass from Sahnewal, and so will those coming from Delhi and Chandigarh towards Sarabha Nagar and Aggar Nagar. Traffic coming from Ferozepur towards Delhi or Chandigarh should also take the Southern Bypass. Vehicles coming from Sherpur towards the Bus Stand and Model Town can take a turn opposite Manju Cinema towards Partap Chowk and use the Dhuri Flyover, after passing the crossing at Pahwa Hospital, while those coming from Industrial Area towards Civil Lines should use Lakkar Bridge. 
 
 Click-crazy commuters cause chaos
 
 The craze among residents to click and post pictures and videos on social media has also tested the patience of cops on Sunday. ADCP Traffic SS Brar was seen arguing with commuters not to stop near the incident site, as it was causing a traffic jam. He and other traffic cops kept dispersing the mob from that place. 
 
 
