PUNE: A sessions court here on Friday sentenced a man to life imprisonment for kidnapping the 12-year-old son of a businessman based in Lavale for a ransom of Rs10 lakh in July 2008.

 The convict, Suhas Dashrath Jagtap (32), who was out on bail five months after his arrest, was immediately taken into custody following the court’s ruling and sent to the Yerawada central jail. Jagtap hails from Dhanora in Madha taluka of   district. 
 
 
 
  
 
 The main accused Sanjay Aaba Sawant (44), a resident of Lavale who was familiar with the minor’s family, jumped bail during the course of the trial and is since reported absconding. The court has directed the police to file a separate charge sheet against Sawant for a separate trial. 
 
 Additional public prosecutor   told TOI, “The court of additional sessions judge Dilip Murumkar found Jagtap guilty of offences punishable under Sections 364-A (kidnapping for ransom) and 385 (putting person in fear of injury in order to commit extortion) of the Indian Penal Code.”
 
 “The court sentenced Jagtap to life imprisonment and Rs2,000 fine for the kidnapping offence and a two-year rigorous jail term for the extortion bid,” Agarwal added. Both sentences are to run concurrently.
 
 Sawant, whom the boy often referred to as ‘Sanjay Mama’, and co-accused Jagtap had offered a lift to the boy in a car on the pretext of dropping the   to his school on July 18, 2008. Instead, the duo took the boy to a lodge in Tembhurni and later called the victim’s father from different telephone booths, demanding Rs10 lakh. 
 
 The father then lodged an FIR with the Paud police, who traced the duo on the basis of the call records and leads relating to the spot on   highway where the two had asked the father to bring the ransom amount. A trap was laid around the spot and the police nabbed the two in their car. The boy was later rescued from the lodge. The accused had replaced the boy’s school uniform with a new set of clothes.
 
 Agarwal examined 11 witnesses in support of the prosecution’s case, including the evidence recorded by the boy, who identified the accused in the court and narrated the incident. “The court found the boy’s evidence credible and reliable and the same was not shaken during cross-examination,” Agarwal said.
 
 Other incriminating circumstances, which led to Jagtap’s conviction, included the recovery of the car’s number plate, which the duo had dumped while committing the crime; the opinion of handwriting experts relating to entries made in Jagtap’s name at the lodge; a receipt of the new clothes purchased for the boy in Jagtap’s name and the duo’s arrest from the car that was used for commission of the offence, said Agarwal.
 
 
