Nagpur: The   (NIT) plans to revamp the haphazard Gokulpeth market by constructing a shopping mall with two floor basement parking and G+21 floors. Instead of seeking funds from the state government, the civic agency proposes to develop the project on design, build, finance, operate and transfer (DBFOT) basis.

 NIT has already floated an expression of interest, inviting private companies to develop the project. Pre-bid meeting was organized on January 21. Last date for submitting the tender is February 9.
 
 NIT chairman   told TOI all efforts are being taken to develop the project in a time-bound manner. “We are hoping for a good response from private companies for the project. We have prepared a tentative plan of the project. Developers can also come up with their own plan. The condition is to accommodate existing lease holders of shops allotted by NIT and also   (NMC),” he said.
 
 In November last year, chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had decided NIT would be developing the project instead of NMC. Then NIT, with the help of architect  , prepared a tentative plan and also design of the project.
 
 Estimated cost of developing the project is around Rs400 crore. Apart from this, NIT is expecting to earn premium and ground rent from the project due to sprawling area of over 14,000 sq m that too in prime location.
 
 As per NIT’s plan, the current G+3 floor commercial complex facing West High Court (WHC) road will be demolished. There are 73 NIT lease holders in the complex. NIT is using some area for its project department, and some area has been lying abandoned for years.
 
 Also, 223 NMC leased shops and platforms in the Gokulpeth market will be demolished. All these will be accommodated in the proposed project. Thus, the project will come up in all the area available between the four roads surrounding the market. 
 
 A NIT official told TOI that lease holders will be given shops in the proposed project free of cost. “Construction cost will be recovered from NMC lease holders. Vegetable, fruit vendors, meat sellers and retailers who have NMC lease will be accommodated on the ground floor,” he said.
 
  said NMC and NIT lease holders have given their consent to the project, so there will be no hurdles in developing it. “NMC had planned the mall in 2004 and also issued work order to private company Unity Infraprojects in 2006. Some shopkeepers opposed the project, so it was delayed. Then, NIT claimed ownership of the land. Fadnavis held three meetings with officials of NMC, NIT and representatives of shopkeepers, to get everyone’s consent,” he said.
 
 Bangale added the project will get good response from private developers as it is located in city’s most prime location. “Unity had quoted premium of Rs127 crore to NMC in 2006. Now, the land value has increased manifold and there is huge demand for commercial space in Gokulpeth market,” he said.
 
 As per NIT’s tentative plan, parking for 1,000 four-wheelers and 2,500 two-wheelers will be provided in the project to solve parking issues in Gokulpeth and Dharampeth. Parking will be facilitated in two basement floors and on some area on 3rd and 4th floors.
 
 Private developer can go for any type of commercial usages like shops, offices, multiplex, restaurants, halls etc
 
 
