I was harassed with continuous honking by someone who was driving a white Audi car with an MLC sticker, while I was travelling back home. Since I pictured the car so as to file a complaint, the one in back seat, looked like a bouncer, got down and tried to snatch my mobile. Then he literally dragged my two wheeler due to which my left cheek got hurt. As other motorists and a traffic cop pooled the spot, he fled. Police tried to track him through wireless phones, but failed. I filed a complaint in the police station and I’m eagerly waiting for an action as per law against this public representative (sic),” wrote 30-year-old PhD scholar, Archana Rao, narrating how she was manhandled by, an unidentified man in broad day light on Friday.

 When I shifted the phone to my other hand, he charged forward and pushed me. Demanding for the keys of the vehicle, he cornered me and dragged my vehicle. I shouted at him, how can he just man-handle common citizens. Just an MLC sticker on the glass doesn’t give him the right to do so. He pushed me and I fell over my vehicle and injured my face,” she recounts adding, “It was horrifying.”
 As other motorists and a traffic cop gathered at the spot, he fled. Police tried to track him through wireless phones, but failed. The traffic police incharge of   area, confirmed to Hyderabad Times that the occupants of the car charged at the woman. “It was a VIP vehicle and a bouncer got out and dragged the lady to the road. Our officers rushed to the spot, as many vehicles stopped to question his misbehaviour. But he fled. We informed the constable ahead on the route to look out for the registration number, but couldn’t nab him,” adds Sub Inspector Anvesh Reddy.
 
 Archana adds that when she was recovering from the shocking incident, couple of other cars and motorists stopped by. “Two car owners stopped and informed that the Audi hit their cars too in a bid to speed ahead with constant honking. Its harassing you know, to be followed along with such honks,” says Archana.
  And what ensued, was a ugly abuse of power. Archana describes, “A guy who was sitting in the back seat walked up to me and attempted to snatch my phone. “Video kaiko nikal ri? De phone,” he said angrily. 
 
 
 
 The case for now maybe a tough one to crack for the police as the CCTVs near   may be of little use as the one at gate 1 was defunct at the time of offence and one at gate 2 points inwards. The investigating officer Narsing Rao confirmed that the car was traced to an address in  . “Though the complaint has been accepted, since it’s not a cognizable offence, we are checking evidence to see how the offence played out. If found guilty, we will file an FIR against the accused,” said SI Ravi Kumar. While its uncertain who the car belonged to, the TS09 indicates the registration has been done from the   limits. The vehicle number also has a challan to its name dated May 6, 2017, making it surprising that a temporary number as been allowed to ply for so long, for over 6 months. The owner’s name has not been revealed yet. 
 Despite all the lags and problems Archana is determined to teach the man a lesson. “Why should I back down? I may have to run around but its my responsibility as a citizen to teach him a lesson. He cant do this to common citizens,” says a determined Archana.
 
 The incident took place near Nirankari Bhawan, Saifabad at around 4:30 pm. “Driving a white coloured Audi Q3, bearing a temporary registration number of TS09UTR 1333, he was honking all the way from  , expecting the road to be cleared off for his VVIP wheels. Being the rush hour and a one way route, many disgruntled commuters tried to give way too. I was on my scooter, and I clicked a picture of the car to lodge a complaint,” shares Archana.
 
