Whether you blame it on piracy or on the number of multiplexes coming up, fact remains that many single screen cinema halls are facing heavy losses and are even on the verge of closure. In fact, around nine single screens have shut shop in Nagpur over the past few years. But those who are still in the game in Nagpur, are trying to reinvent themselves in many ways. The latest being adopting the strategy of running   films on a daily basis. Owner of Sudama  , Pranit Singh, shares that the primary reason behind screening two-three films is to accommodate more films on distributors’ demand. “The number of films releasing simultaneously has increased and distributors want as many screens as possible for their films. In order to accommodate more movies, we divide the slots. This week, we have a Marathi release in two shows and in other two shows, we have continued running Deadpool for the second week because it is generating good business,” he explains.
Santosh Mishra, who manages 32-year-old Smruti Cinema, says that single screens need a revival-of-sorts. “We started off as a typical small talkies but in 2006, we renovated our theatre, installed air conditioners and made our seating more comfortable. Today, running more than one film at a time is the only way forward for us,” he admits. And this strategy seems to be working well, especially for those single screens that were facing losses before taking up the move. The key, lies in screening the right film at the right time, says Harish Shiranwar, manager of Jaishree Talkies. “The slots of the films are divided according to their popularity. With summer peaking, we screen less popular films in afternoon and evening slots are reserved for the movie that is garnering best response,” he points out, adding “Occupancy has increased by 30 per cent.” 
 And for the audience, this move means they get to watch multiple movies at the theatre that’s nearest to them, and at a fraction of the ticket price at a multiplex. “If a theatre near my home has more than one film on offer, it not only saves my time, but also money as ticket prices at single screen theatres are quite reasonable,” says entrepreneur   Vaidya. Advocate   Babhulkar adds, “Single screens have no choice but to divide slots between multiple movies. And we get to watch two popular movies at the same cinema hall.”
 
