MUMBAI: When the Central Board of Secondary Education ( ) discontinued some subjects and   for class X in October 2017, it landed a Jalgaon   in a tight spot. For, it meant he had to ignore two subjects he had been studying for more than a year, as part of the  , and then learn two new subjects before the board exams in March.

 Bringing him relief, the   recently ordered the board to hold exams for the two subjects he had opted while in class IX. 
 
 In class IX, he had opted for Information And Communication Technology and Information Technology, but was forced to take up Home Science and Painting when he was in class X. 
 
 “The board had two subjects for information technology out of which they discontinued one. The other was put in a different group forcing us to take two absolutely new subjects,” said the student’s father, a resident of Jalgaon. The parents filed a petition in the Bombay high court in December 2017 after communication with CBSE did not yield a solution. “Even a student without a learning disability would find it very difficult to change over to two new subjects at the last minute. It would have been impossible for him to cope with it. The board cannot make such last minute changes because they require students to opt for the subjects in class IX itself. We filled out the form opting for Home Science and Painting to ensure other students from the school are not inconvenienced,” he said. 
 
 Justice AM Dhawale and SV Gangapurwala of the the HC's Aurangabad bench said the CBSE's decision was arbitrary, unreasonable and shocking as the board's rules state that class IX and X are integrated courses. “Even for students of ordinary intellect, it is very difficult to change the subjects after 15th October in an academic year and select totally new subjects unknown to him, study them and appear for the examination with such subjects. It is common knowledge that class X exam is one of the most important stages in the life of students," said the HC order. 
 
 The court observed that the CBSE must introduce any change in curriculum at the time of admission in class IX and also consider the case of any other students like the petitioner. The court has also ordered the CBSE to give provisions of a scribe to the student. Following the order, the board has made arrangements to hold the Information And Communication Technology exam on March 5 and Information Technology on April 5.
 
 
