Bathinda: Close on the heels of attack on Punjabi singer-actor Parmish Verma, singer-cum-politician   has reportedly received threats and calls for extortion. His Facebook page has also been allegedly hacked.

 Sidhu has complaint to the Punjab Police cyber cell and the matter is being investigated. Balkar had sought the Congress ticket from Talwandi Sabo or Maur constituency in the 2017 assembly elections but didn’t get it.
 
 Earlier in the 2015 byelection from Talwandi Sabo, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) had initially announced Balkar as its candidate. His name was revoked after a couple of days over some complaints against him and he had unsuccessfully contested the bypoll as an independent candidate.
 
 During the 2017 assembly elections even though he was denied ticket, he had campaigned for the Congress by performing at the party’s rallies and events, especially those addressed by chief minister Amarinder Singh, then president of Punjab Congress.
 
 Talking to TOI Sidhu said, “An unidentified caller started making calls at my office in Mohali on April 20 where he initially demanded Rs 8,400. Later, I started getting calls on my mobile phone. The caller threatened to put obscene videos on my Facebook page to tarnish my image if I didn’t pay him the money. When the amount was transferred into the account given by the caller, he started demanding Rs 1 lakh as extortion and continued threatening me with the dire consequences and social blackmailing. The caller subsequently hacked my Facebook account, which was liked by lakhs of followers.”
 
 The singer alleged that the caller spoke in Hindi with a southern accent and claimed he was from Hyderabad. “The caller also sent a mobile payment platform account to deposit the money. Though I did not want to go public with what was happening with me, when the caller continued to make calls and giving threats, I decided to raise a complaint with the cyber cell,” Balkar said.
 
 When contacted, crime cell assistant inspector general of police (AIG) H S Mann said, “We are inquiring into the matter and have sought details of the numbers from which the calls were made and from which server, the Facebook account of Balkar has been hacked.”
 
 
