GURUGRAM: After a gap of nearly five months, chief minister   will chair the   meeting in Gurugram on Saturday.

 Sources said some 40 issues, shortlisted from complaints at CM window, would be taken up for hearing at the meeting. Most of the complaints are related to encroachments, illegal construction and absence of civic infrastructure in different parts of the city. 
 
 Earlier most of the complaints were filed by homebuyers against developers.
 
 One complaint is related to encroachment of a natural drain in Fazilpur area, while others are against illegal market on Huda land in Wazirabad area, blockage in sewerage line in Dhanwapur village, illegal water connections etc, sources said.
 
 Issues of   and Woodstock, a group housing society inside the upscale township, are also listed for hearing. Woodstock residents have alleged they are denied the use of common infrastructure and amenities like parks. The issue was taken up at the last grievance meeting in October 2017 as well.
 
 Residents of Huda sectors have complaints about guest houses in residential houses and illegal constructions. Besides, illegal colonies in Fazilpur area, delay in construction of a community centre in Badshapur are also on the agenda, sources said.
 
 Residents of sectors along NH-8 have complained about pollution due to continuous movement of vehicles and requested the construction of a 10ft high wall along the expressway to check pollution in the adjoining residential areas.
 
 Bimlendu Shekhar Jha, a resident, has also filed a compliant against Huda for not giving possession of his plot even after 14 years of making full payment of Rs 30 lakh. “I did not have any plot or flat in NCR and have spent all my savings towards the plot. I am going to retire shortly and this has given me mental agony,” he said.
 
 “Hope that CM’s intervention will help me in getting possession of the plot,” he added.
 
 Issues related to unauthorised constructions in Sector 46 market were raised before CM at the last meeting and it was again listed for Saturday meeting. The complainant has alleged that despite repeated complaints, Huda has failed to remove the unauthorised construction.
 
 
