Chandigarh: An inspector from Chandigarh police has approached the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) against a departmental enquiry being started against him, in which CAT has issued notice to Union of India, UT administration, director general of police, SSP traffic and sought their reply by March 6.

 A petition has been moved by inspector Dilsher Singh, whereby it is demanded that the January 30 orders of the departmental enquiry against him be quashed as he was never served a show cause notice prior to it. He also stated in the petition that if this order is quashed, he would be eligible for sending forward his name for promotion as deputy superintendent of police DSP. The petitioner stated that just because he moved CAT for his promotion, the department has initiated the inquiry against him to pressure him and threaten him to withdraw his case.
 
 As per the petition, Dilsher joined Chandigarh police as assistant sub-inspector on April 3, 1989. On December 9, 1993, he was promoted as sub-inspector and in November 2009, as inspector. As per the Punjab Police Service Rules 1959, he is eligible for the post of DSP now. Accordingly, he had given the department a representation in this regard but following no action, he along with three other inspectors, approached CAT for promotion.
 
 On April 26, 2017, the department and UT were directed to promote the inspectors. CAT has already dismissed a review petition filed by UT in November, last year. 
 
 Following this, the department promoted the other three inspectors to the post of DSP but did not form departmental promotion committee (DPC) for his case. However, an enquiry was opened against him in an old case, so that his case could be withheld for promotion. The DPC was held on January 22, while the enquiry was opened on January 30. The petition also added that an enquiry was opened against inspector Charanjit Singh just a day before the DPC, to deny him promotion.
 
 Singh has alleged that on the directions of higher officials, a DSP called him and threatened him to withdraw the petition. He was also told that departmental enquiries will be opened against him if he fails to do so. He claims to have recorded the same on video and has also attached a CD of the same.
 
 Why the inquiry
 
 As per the petition, Singh had applied for ex-India leave in July, 2017. It was approved on July 20. He was granted the leave to meet his son in Canada from August 1 to October 29. However, he was not granted visa for the same by the Canadian embassy. The enquiry has been opened against him for supposedly giving wrong information as he took ex-India leave but was in the country.
 
 
