Gadchiroli: Gadchiroli police may be claiming another success encounter with Naxalites at Nainer forest near Rajaram Khandla in Aheri taluka that killed six. But, local tribals in hamlets of the claimed encounter area remain baffled as they failed to recall hearing many gunshots. The noise of rattling guns and shelling tearing through the silence of the deep forest and desolate hillocks is nothing new for tribals of Gadchiroli. Encounters between cops and Naxalites are common thanks to three-and-half decades of rebel movement in the remote district. The zooming of police jeeps, anti-mine vehicles and other vehicles through the forest and rickety roads of villages are telltale signs of those skirmishes. These signs were absent on Monday late afternoon when Gadchiroli police claimed to have gunned down six Maoists including a Divisional Committee Member (DVC) and also in-charge of Aheri Local Organizational Squad (LOS) Vasudev Atram, alias Nandu, Kartik Uikey and Kranti of Platoon 7, Lata Wadde and Jaisheela Gawde of Aheri LOS. One of the women cadre killed is yet to be identified. In three days, Gadchiroli police have scripted history gunning down 37 Maoists cadres including three Divisional Committee Members (DVCMs) ranks and four commanders. This month, Gadchiroli police killed four DVCMs including Sunil Kulmethe of Sironcha division.  Though senior officers claimed it was a genuine gun battle, there are speculations about it in the hamlets surrounding Nainer. TOI on a visit in the remote region met tribals of Nainer and eight hamlets in a range of five kilometres. Starting from Rajaram Khandla, TOI visited Korepalli, Kapevancha, Korchepalli before taking a U-turn for Pallekasa, Madgu and Nainer passing through the forest trails. A family at Kopevancha claimed to have heard only couple of gunshots. Another prominent tribal of that hamlet also said he could not recall hearing continuous bullet shots in the forest. Police have claimed they came under “heavy and indiscriminate fire” from Naxalites. A villager from Pallekasa said he spotted a police vehicle pass through but returning soon. “I had seen the vehicle go but it did not leave the village. We heard that there were bodies in the vehicle,” he said. There were no male residents at Nainer. A woman informed, through a local aide, that the male residents had gone to the forest for hunting. An experienced person from the tribal belt said if there were an encounter in the forest, no villagers dare to go hunting with their Bharmar rifles.  “Villagers generally avoid forest if there has been an action, fearing they might be targeted by police as Maoists supporters and by Maoists as police informers,” he said. Some villagers in another hamlet hinted the slain Maoists may have been brought from somewhere else before being shot in the area. South Gadchiroli is rife with rumour some bodies or injured Maoists from Sunday’s Kasnasur encounter may have been shown as those gunned down in Nainer. The two sites are 35-40 km apart.  Villagers claimed the bodies could be easily shifted from Kasnasur to Nainer through shortcut forest routes. Members of Aheri LOS and Platoon 7 have been identified among slain Maoists of both encounters which too added fuel to the rumours. SP, Gadchiroli, Abhinav Deshmukh said the encounter may have taken place deep inside the forest leaving villagers clueless. “The villagers may be scared of revealing details to strangers. We will look into the issues that have triggered the doubts,” he said.