JAIPUR: Security for state advocate general   has been beefed up after he received a threat letter on Tuesday, on the eve of the hearing of the death reference in the high court of Kashmiri terrorist Dr   who was convicted in the 1996 Samleti bomb blast case on Wednesday. The high court on Wednesday postponed the hearing to May 9.

 The blast had taken place on May 22, 1996 in a bus near Samleti village in Dausa on the Jaipur-Agra highway, killing 14 people and injuring 37 others. The bus was headed to Bikaner from Agra.
 
 After the trial court convicted the main accused Dr Hameed Ansari to death in 2014, his appeal petition is pending in the high court. The letter written in Hindi warned the AG “To make his subordinate public prosecutors Ragahv and Saini and Additional Advocate General   understand of the consequences of Hameed being hanged. It will create havoc.”
 
 The letter further accused the advocate general of a stooge (chamcha) of the RSS.
 
 A trial court in Dausa upheld its previous judgment of awarding the death penalty to Dr. Abdul Hameed, a convict in the 1996 bomb blast case, after reviewing its earlier pronounced punishment, as directed by the Rajasthan High Court.
 
 On September 29, 2014, the Bandikui court had found seven accused guilty of committing bomb blast and on the same day had sentenced Hameed to death and others –   (Srinagar), Abdul Ghani (Jammu), Latif Ahmed (Srinagar), Mohammad Ali Bhatt, Mirza Nisar Hussain and Rahish Baig from Agra – to life imprisonment. Hameed, now over 50, has been in the jail for the past 20 years.
 
 Hameed then challenged the sentencing before Rajasthan High Court, claiming that trial court erred in awarding death sentence to him as he was not given chance to produce mitigating factors after finding him guilty.
 
 The high court gave directions to the lower court to hear and review the case again. After completing the procedure, the lower court pronounced uphold its previous judgement and his appeal is pending in the high court.
 
 
