PATNA: Three flights are to resume operations from   ( ) at Patna from February 1 following improvement in visibility conditions. Out of the three   flights, two are scheduled on Delhi-Patna-Delhi route while the third will fly on Mumbai-Patna route. 

 JPNI airport officials said as many as 9 flights are likely to resume operations by February 16. Besides the three from February 1, SpiceJet will resume its Mumbai-bound flight from February 11 and IndiGo will operate five flights from February 16 to Kolkata, Delhi, Lucknow and Bengaluru.
 
 Total 27 flights are operating from the city airport at present against the scheduled strength of 36. As flights are mostly not allowed to land at the city airport before 10am due to foggy conditions normally from November first week, most airlines had cancelled or rescheduled their morning flights and added in the afternoon under their winter schedule from December. Changes in timings were also made for the evening flights.
 
 “Visibility conditions have improved in the past few days. The minimum 1200 metres visibility requirement for flight operations is being met at around 11:30am lately, which used to be not before 1pm during peak winter days. Accordingly, different airlines have communicated us their request to resume the flights they had suspended during peak winter season,” a Patna airport official said.
 
 He said the post-winter schedule will remain effective till March 24 and round-the-clock flight operations will start at the city airport from March 25.
 
 Total 51 flights are slated to operate from JPNI airport under the 24x7 operations proposed from March 25. New direct flights providing connectivity to Chandigarh, Indore, Ahmedabad and Guwahati among other cities are also proposed from Patna under the upcoming round-the-clock schedule.
 
 A high-level meeting was also held at Patna on January 24 to review the prevailing situation here ahead of the  . Decisions were taken to extend the terminal building slightly towards the east and on its front as tentative measures to decongest the airport. Two portable cabins are also slated to be erected in front of the terminal building in February.
 
 Nonetheless, works on development of the new terminal building utilizing funds to the tune of Rs 800 crore will start from April. The   with six aerobridges and other state-of-the-art facilities is expected to be made ready in three years.
 
 
