India U-16 scripted a remarkable 4-2 victory over   to emerge champions in the Four-Nation Tournament in Serbia on Sunday.
 
  India finished on top of the group with seven points after getting the better of Jordan (2-1) and sharing the spoils with hosts Serbia (0-0). The victory over Tajikistan means India finished their engagements with seven points and were a step ahead of Tajikistan (four points). In an inconsequential game, Jordan, who lost both their matches, were taking on the might of Serbia, who drew both their matches.
  
  India needed a win to emerge champions and the team, coached by Goa’s Bibiano Fernandes, took the lead as early as the fifth minute when Gibson lobbed the ball over the opposing custodian. Two minutes later, Sailo took advantage of a scramble inside the opposition box and scored to double India’s lead.
  
  India made it 3-0 inside the first 10 minutes when Shabaj slotted the ball home as everyone rubbed their eyes in disbelief. Tajikistan started to fight back and in the 12th minute pulled a goal back, courtesy a penalty kick.
  
  In the 15th minute, Tajikistan minimized their deficiency and found the Indian net once again to make it 2-3.
  
  At half time, Tajikistan still had a chance to claw their way back and stun India but Bibiano’s boys got their act together and put the match to rest just after the hour mark.
  
  In the 66th minute, Ricky’s through ball found Rohit Danu and the latter bundled the ball home to restore India’s two-goal cushion and ensure that India finished their European sojourn unbeaten.
  
  India are preparing for the AFC U-16 Championship in Malaysia later this year. India have been clubbed with Iran, Vietnam and Indonesia in group C. Two teams from the group will qualify for the quarterfinals, and should India make it to the semifinals – for the first time ever – they would have earned a ticket to the Fifa U-17 World Cup 2019 in Peru.
  
  The AFC U-16 Championship will be held between September 20-October 7 in Malaysia. Jordan and Tajikistan, two teams India defeated in Serbia, have qualified for the championship.
