In the latest episode of  , Padma spoon-feeds Adithya (in Surya’s disguise) as he has injured his hand. Meanwhile, Sam takes breakfast to Surya’s room. Since Surya has also injured his hand, Sam spoon-feeds him. They share a romantic moment together. However, Surya’s rage to nab his lookalike doesn’t dwindle.

 In the next scene to follow, Sam highlights the love the family is showering upon him. Adithya pretends to be devoid from their affection. Sam also warns Adithya to leave the house before Surya catches him but Adithya isn’t ready to leave.
  
 Meanwhile, Jayanthi confronts Surya and inquires about his breakfast. Surya replies that Sam got breakfast to his room. Samanya and Padma join the conversation. Samanya is puzzled at Surya’s answer as she has witnessed Padma spoon-feeding him downstairs. Padma thinks Surya is still angry with her. Jayanthi is shocked to learn that Surya is injured.
  
 Through Samanya and Padma, Surya comes to know that his lookalike is around. He immediately rushes to lock all the exit doors. He looks for Sam calling her aloud. Adithya initially refuses to leave but after hearing Surya’s call, he (Adithya) disappears.
  
 Finding Sam, Surya informs her that he has removed the bandage from the wound and locked the doors. Further, he instructs Sam to look for him (Adithya). He keeps searching the rest of the rooms in the house.
 
 Adithya overhears this conversation. He too removes his bandage and presents himself in front of Sam. He ridicules Surya for his dumb wit. Adithya also declares that hereon he will take his revenge. He further locks Surya in his room.
  
 Meanwhile, Savitramma (Surya’s grandmother) presents jewellery to Padma in front of the family members. While the entire family rejoices this, Adithya (pretending to be Surya) objects. He starts abusing. The family requests Savitramma (Who is not aware of Surya’s psychological disorder) to ignore him. But Savitramma offers him a chance to explain the reasons behind his allegations.
 
 
