HYDERABAD: The blood samples of two suspected   patients in Hyderabad proved negative, but one of the patients, who did not visit  , is on ventilator support. On Thursday night, entire health ministry swung into action after two private hospitals referred patients on suspicion they harbour Nipah virus. Throat swab samples of patients in their mid-twenties were collected under isolation and referred to National Institute of Virology for examination. Though NIV normally takes a few days to send its report, it acted swiftly in view of Nipah threat.

 
 The AP government too kept its health authorities on high alert and took measures to create isolation wards in select hospitals, including Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada. Telangana government has already created isolation wards in major hospitals in Hyderabad, a day after NIV deaths in Kerala. Telangana is the second state south to report suspected cases of Nipah, the other being Karnataka. Kerala reported 12 deaths and several cases of hospitalisation with suspected NiV since the outbreak on May 20.
 
 The two patients were kept in specially created isolation ward as a precautionary measure. One of the patients is under surveillance at Ronald Ross Institute of Tropical Diseases (Fever Hospital) while the other is in Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences ( ). Both patients had reported high body temperature and symptoms of cold resembling those of Nipah.
  
  
 Director of medical education Dr K Ramesh Reddy said, “These are suspected cases and we collected samples for confirmation. One of the patients did not travel to Kerala. The other went to Kerala, but did not visit Kozhikode, where Nipah outbreak was reported,” he said.
 
 The patients went to private hospitals with symptoms of cold and mild fever and were referred to government centres. Fever Hospital superintendent   told TOIthe patient is now stable and this may be a case of common cold.
 
 Meanwhile, international efforts have begun to develop a vaccine for Nipah. Besides humans, it can infect domestic animals and cattle. The Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations ( ), an independent body floated by few countries, including India, has joined hands with pharmaceutical companies to develop a vaccine.
 
 The vaccine is based on Nipah and Hendra virus technology. “Current outbreakdemonstrates it as a deadly pathogen that travelled thousands of kms and has serious epidemic potential,” the CEPI statement said.
 
 
