NEW DELHI: Come April 1, domestic tourists visiting the   will have to pay Rs 50 to enter the premises and pay an additional Rs 200 to gain entry into the 16th century monument’s main mausoleum and the tomb in the basement. TOI first reported about the fee hike on February 12. 

 Making the announcement on Tuesday, culture minister Mahesh Sharma said the ministry doesn’t intend to limit the number of tourists visiting the monument. He said tourists will be asked to choose between the category of tickets available at the time of gaining entry into the Taj Mahal. 
 
 For better crowd management, the government has also decided to limit the validity of all tickets to three hours. Tourists who stay inside the monument longer than three hours will have to pay the entry fee once again. As of now, there is no separate fee for entry to the main mausoleum, where the graves of   emperor   and his wife   lie. Sharma said, “On an average, Taj Mahal receives about 40,000 to 50,000 tourists daily. 
 
 This number swells to nearly 1.5 lakh levels over weekends and on holidays. To control crowds, and to conserve the monument better, we consulted the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) and asked them to suggest ways.” 
 
 Based on the NEERI report, the ministry decided to increase basic ticket prices from Rs 40 to Rs 50 and to introduce a new category of tickets for the researchers and more serious tourists. “Our main aim is to deter people from crowding the place and hang around within the premises endlessly. We want the queues to end and for the visiting tourists to have a comfortable experience,” Sharma said, adding that all tickets will be bar coded, allowing ASI authorities to ascertain the duration for which the tourists stay inside the premises. 
 
 While ticket prices for foreign tourists will continue to be capped at Rs 1250, Sharma said the ministry is also setting up systems to improve the experience for them by setting up a central control unit and a single window grievance redressal cell. The ministry has also liaised with the civil aviation and road transport ministries along with local bodies to create a safe corridor for foreign tourists. 
 
 The minister said similar crowd control initiatives have also been planned for other popular tourist destinations like the Red Fort and  . Meanwhile, to put an end to the ‘lapka’ culture in Agra, where touts fleece or harass foreign tourists, the government said it’s considering making it a cognisable offence.
