Trichy: Minor changes to the vaadivasal aimed at the safety of bulls for a jallikattu event in Koothaippar near Trichy on Wednesday has helped to prevent accidents. Learning from the accidental death of Komban, the bull owned by health minister C Vijayabaskar in a jallikattu event a few days ago, authorities in Trichy have made changes to vadivasal. Usually, as part of the ritual, palm tree logs are erected in the jallikatu arena a few feet away from entry point on either side. Sadly, Komban had fatally banged its head on one of two wooden logs erected on either side of vaadivasal- entry point to the jallikattu arena. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) India too had been raising voice against jallikattu while taking up Komban’s death. It claimed that the bull was forced into the crowd which led to the accident and eventually its death. “Learning that the distance of the palm tree logs from the entry point and absence of any cushion effect on the log resulted in the fatal accident at Pudukkottai, we suggested some changes to the jallikattu committee,” says Thiruverumbur Thasildar A Shoba. The logs were taken close to the entry point and it was covered with dry paddy straws to give a cushion effect to minimize the impact if bulls accidentally bang on the wooden logs, she said. The jallikattu committee too agreed to make the changes and we concluded the event without any injuries to the bulls on Wednesday, she added. A total 27 people sustained injures in the event that includes 18 bull tamers and four spectators. Five of the bull owners were also injured during the event in their attempt to control the bulls which had become ferocious while waiting in queue to enter the arena. A total 484 bulls were registered and deemed fit to enter the arena but close to 200 bulls returned back disappointed as the event was closed at 2 30 pm in the afternoon. While in most of the places jallikattu goes on till 4-5 pm in the evening, Shoba said that clear instructions were given to jallikattu committee to start the event at 8 am and conclude at 2 pm.  This was to avoid bulls from waiting in the afternoon heat that may make the bulls restless, she added.