BHOPAL: Congress leaders  ,  ,   and AICC general secretary in-charge of state affairs Deepak Babaria on Monday submitted a memorandum to the chief election commissioner in New Delhi, alleging “misuse of power and authority” by the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government for the expected Mungaoli and Kolaras bypolls. Congress accuses the state chief electoral officer of inaction.

 The memorandum says that “might of money and muscle power is currently in full display by ruling BJP”. The letter cites an incident of January 1 when BJP national vice-president Prabhat   held a meeting with government teachers at a private building in Mungaoli. A video of Jha talking to teachers of state-run schools went viral and was reported extensively in the media.
 
 “The teachers were gathered forcibly and pressurised by Prabhat Jha and other BJP leaders to campaign for the ruling party in different parts of the assembly constituency,” the memorandum says. “An atmosphere of fear is being created among government employees that if BJP does not succeed in the upcoming by-elections then they would have to suffer dire consequences,” the letter adds.
 
 Congress has submitted to the EC a video of Prabhat Jha speaking to government teachers, and clippings of newspaper reports. Congress seeks an inquiry and punitive action against Prabhat Jha for “illegally forcing government teachers to participate in political programmes.” Congress alleges that Jha’s behaviour is an offence under Section 171C IPC and “establishes corrupt practices under provisions of Representation of People’s Act 1951”.
 
 The Opposition party demands a high-powered committee of independent officers to investigate Jha and other BJP leaders for “muscle power and use of government machinery”. The memorandum also asks for registration of offences against those indulging in “blatant abuse of government machinery and misuse of power, irrespective of such persons being in high positions of power and authority.”
 
 “We would also like to point out that the CEO of the state has so far not shown any measure or iota of indulgence or intervention, despite such grave allegations being in public domain, which could instill confidence and faith among Congress and other political parties that free and fair elections can be conducted in Madhya Pradesh,” says the memorandum, signed by PCC chief Arun Yadav. 
 
 Reacting to the Congress memorandum, minister for water resources and state government spokesman Narottam Mishra said, “When defeat is foreseeable, the Congress starts making such baseless allegations. Much of it is done to build an environment so the defeat can be blamed on BJP. And after the defeat, the very same persons who are going with a complaint letter to the Election Commission will allege EVM tampering. This simply shows that Congress knows defeat in Kolaras and Mungawali is inevitable.”
 
 Prabhat Jha defended himself, saying: “I have not done anything that violates the model code of conduct. Election dates have not been announced. The Congress is badly losing ground in both the assembly seats, which is why they are making all this noise.”
 
 
