CHANDIGARH: For tabla wizard  , the soulfulness of   gharana of Indian classical music and the melody of Punjabi folk music attract him more than the beats of Bhangra. The Oscar-nominated percussionist and a composer was in Chandigarh on Wednesday after a gap of five years. Along with French band Mezcal Jazz Unit, he enthralled the audience with his performance in Sector 17 Plaza. 

 Though Ghosh has dabbled in various genres of music — new-age, fusion, rock, film music and classical — the musician said his compositions have a strong influence of Patiala gharana. Well, he has his reasons. “My mother, (Sanjukta, an Indian classical vocalist) hails from Patiala gharana. From Bade   Khan, Ustad Bade Fateh Ali Khan Ustad Barkat Ali Khan to Ustad Barkat Ali Khan, there’s a wide array of singers, which belongs to this rich gharana. Hence, there’s no denying rich musical history of Punjab,” Ghosh said.
 
 Ghosh is one of the few Indian musicians, who haven’t confined himself to Indian classical music. He has infused fusion with other musical genres and has managed to create ‘new sound’, which has made him popular among youth. 
 
 Ghosh said there’s a ‘dedicated and niche audience’ for Indian classical music. But he also agrees that fusion music is more popular among youth. “I did a fusion show in Chandigarh,” he said. However, he praises the audience in Amristar. “There is huge Indian classical music audience in Amritsar,” said Ghosh, who is composing for several   and Bengali films. 
 
 The table virtuoso has accompanied Pandit Ravi Shankar for several years and has also, played on “Full Circle”, the album which won the sitar maestro a Grammy. From   of the Beatles, Anoushka Shankar to Sonu Nigam, Ghosh has collaborated with many musicians over the years. So, does he want to collaborate with any Punjabi musician? The musician pipes up even before the question has been fully articulated.
 
 “I have always been a great fan of Daler Mehndi. He has tremendous range. I have also worked with  . I am interested in doing a project with Punjabi dhol and Bangla dhol beats,” said the Kolkata-based musician. 
 
 Now, this doesn’t mean he isn’t a big fan of bhangra. “Popularity of bhangra cannot be denied. I think, it all started in the late 90s when Indie music started gaining momentum. Later Akshay Kumar started doing the bhangra in almost all his films. Bhangra is a movement now. Apart from its Indian content, it’s highly popular in the UK. I like the intricacy of melody in Punjabi folk music,” said Ghosh, who along with Sonu Nigam was nominated for the Oscars for their compositions for Girish Malik’s ‘Jal’ in the Original Score category.
 
 When asked if there’s any artist he always wanted to collaborate with, he instantly replied, “I wish Kishore Kumar were alive”. 
 
 “I am keen to do one song with Asha Bhonsle. Talks are on. I have already started composing a song for her,” the percussionist added.
 
 
  
 
