BENGALURU: Can a free pressure cooker or gas stove tempt a woman to vote for A, B or C?

 The answer is in the affirmative, if one goes by the trend of aspiring MLAs distributing kitchen goodies in the run-up to the assembly elections to pamper women voters, who constitute 48% of the total electorate in Karnataka.
 
 Election Commission officials confirmed that the goodies they have been seizing since March 27, when the model code of conduct was imposed, have been women’s favourites -- pressure cookers, mixers, gas stoves, saris, jewellery, among other things.
 
 A truck carrying pressure cookers with pictures of Laxmi Hebbalkar, president of the state women’s   cell, was seized by police in Belagavi on Saturday. In Bengaluru, around 100 pressure cookers and 350 saris were seized in RR Nagar.
 
 This is different from the traditional cash-and-liquor path candidates would tread to lure voters, especially men, while campaigning. “Priorities may have changed this poll season. There is no serious engagement with women as a constituency,” said an aspiring MLA from Bengaluru.
 
 According to a ticket aspirant, who has been in the news for distributing cookers, mixers and gas stoves, these items relate to women voters. The items are bought in bulk and care is taken to ensure they conform to ISI standards. “Along with the gas stove or cooker, a warranty card for one year is given which has my photo. If anything goes wrong, they can hold me responsible,” the aspirant added.
 
 The election has also turned the spotlight on Stree Shakti groups, set up in 2000-01 as part of the S M Krishna government’s initiative to empower women and make them financially self-reliant. According to party sources, candidates have been offering each Stree Shakti group between Rs 20,000 and Rs 1 lakh in cash, depending on the number of voters who are part of the group.
 
 Each Stree Shakti group has an average of 20-30 members and there are two to three groups in each village, taking their total to around 3-4 lakh groups in the state. “Aspirants also lure women voters by repaying pending loans taken by members of Stree Shakti groups,” sources added.
 
 Saris, cookers with Cong MLA’s photo seized
 
 In one of the first cases of poll code violation in Bengaluru, 96 cookers, tawas and 350 saris stored in boxes sporting Congress MLA N Munirathna Naidu’s name, photo, party symbol and constituency, were recovered from a house in Lakshmidevinagar, near Laggere.
 
 Acting on a tip-off, the 12-member flying squad and Nandini Layout police raided a locked house on an empty plot on 1st Cross at 10am Sunday. They broke the window glass and lock to enter the house.
 
 Police said they are still verifying the name of the site owner and his connection to the confiscated items. A case was registered.
 
 
