JAIPUR: The Budget session of the Rajasthan legislative assembly will commence on Monday with Governor Kalyan Singh’s address in the house.

 The budget session is likely to be a stormy one. Rejuvenated by the comprehensive victory in three seats in the recent bypolls, the Congress is ready to corner the   government on issues of corruption, unemployment, loan-waiver for farmers and other issues. On the other hand, treasury benches have been advised by Raje to counter the Opposition in equal measure.
 
 CM Raje, while presiding over a meeting of the party’s legislative members on Sunday, said that the bypoll verdict was a warning bell for all of them. She said that the state leadership and party high command were analysing the results and the reasons for the defeat and there was no reason to get disappointed or lose hope.
 
 Cautioning the MLAs against self-goals, Raje advised them to propagate the achievements and policies of the state government. “We have done a lot of work, which has led to large-scale development. Go back to your constituencies and talk about the achievements of the government and tell the people how our government is better than the former Congress government,” she said.
 
 Along with state party president Ashok Parnami and parliamentary affairs minister Rajendra Rathore, she also asked them to counter attacks from the Opposition in the house in a united manner.
 
 Meanwhile, addressing the media ahead of the Budget session, the leader of Opposition in the assembly, Rameshwar Dudi, said the Congress would continue to demand loan-waiver for farmers. “From roads to the House, our protests will continue. If BJP will not waive off loans, the Congress, which is set to come to power in Rajasthan, will do it,” said Dudi, who also sought the resignation of the CM over BJP’s defeat in the bypolls.
 
 Dudi also questioned Raje’s statement during a pre-budget meet about doubling the income of farmers by 2022. “Our party will ask for a roadmap from Raje on how she will double the income of farmers in Rajasthan,” said Dudi
 
 The Congress leader said they will corner BJP in the state assembly over issues related to employment, farmers, economy, privatization of education and healthcare. “The party with a difference has failed miserably on all fronts. If they had continued the social welfare programmes of the previous Congress government, the situation in the state would have been different,” said Dudi.
 
 
 
 
 Rajasthan legislative assembly’s select committee, which is headed by senior cabinet minister Gulab Chand Kataria, will not table its report on the Criminal Laws (Rajasthan Amendment) Bill. The controversial gag bill, which was tabled in the assembly on October 23, 2017, was referred to the select committee a day later.
 
 
 
 
 Cabinet minister Jaswant Singh Yadav, who recently lost the bypoll to Alwar Lok Sabha seat, blamed the delay in announcing his name as the candidate for his defeat. Yadav, who lost against Congress’s Karan Singh Yadav by a margin of 1.96 lakh votes, said, “Congress declared its candidate almost 20 days before the polls. The delay in announcing my name led to my defeat.”
 
 
 
