VARANASI: For eight constables deployed inside   (KVT) for crowd management, there was a slight change in the work protocol on Monday evening. Before reporting for duty at the sanctum sanctorum, they all went to the nearby police control room, shed their   and put on dhoti kurta to get ready for their four-hour shift. 

 In a bid to project a 'friendlier image', Varanasi police have made the innermost part of the famous temple 'khaki-free'. The need was felt by senior officers as 'men in uniform' have often been criticised for 'pushing' devotees while managing crowds inside the temple. A change in attire, it is believed, would give the cops a 'volunteer look' and save them from criticism, said a police officer. Sharing their experience of performing duty in   on the first day, one of the constables said: "Devotees thought we were   ( )." Deployment of police to manage crowd in the sanctum sanctorum is a must as most devotees tend to stay inside the temple for a long time without caring about the long queue of devotees outside.
 
 
 
 
 Officials said sometimes policemen deployed there have to literally push people to move quickly. Policemen are being criticized for ‘using force’ to keep devotees moving, an act which has drawn attention ever since some channels started telecasting the darshan live some time ago.
 
 After implementing the new dress code from Monday evening, SSP R K Bhardwaj told TOI, “We tried to explore options for changing the image of the police among Lord Vishwanath’s devotees, before deciding to change the attire of policemen deployed at KVT. It was decided that the constables on temple duty would wear kurta with dhoti or pyjama, while women constables have been asked to turn out in traditional dress like salwar-kurta. There are about 24 constables in the list of sanctum sanctorum duty. A separate fund has been released for each constable to buy the new attire.”
 
 He added: “For past many months, I have been receiving phone calls even at midnight, besides messages and e-mails from devotees hailing from different states and countries, condemning the method of crowd regulation of police inside the sanctum sanctorum. But finding a solution to this problem had not been easy because old recommendations of standing committee on Kashi Vishwanath Gyanvapi security to arrange dedicated force for this highly sensitive site could not yield any result.”
 
 He said officers worked on different options, including replacing policemen by volunteers of religious organisations. “But for initiating all such options, there is a longdrawn process of taking approval from police headquarters. Finally, officials decided to deploy the cops in civil dresses at the sanctum sanctorum because it did not require formalities like seeking approval from police headquarters or any other higher authority,” he said.
 
 
 
 
