The idea of smokeless Bhogi is picking up momentum in the city with many people prefer not to burn waste and add up to the pollution ahead of Pongal. 

 Bhogi is celebrated on the first day of the four-day Pongal festival when people burn unusable things by making a bonfire. While the administration is strict on burning waste is the city limits, experts say the rule is not so strict on the outskirts. 
 
 As per the Hindu mythology, during the Tamil month of Marghali, every home should be cleaned during the morning hours. People collect all the waste and light it up. Of late, that has become a sore point because of the pollution it creates as the waste includes plastic and other such toxic materials.
 
 A Rengasamy district environment engineer, TNPCB Trichy said all the necessary steps had been taken to ensure the air pollution under control during Bhogi celebration. "We had sensitized the public via newspapers, pamphlets and announcement through public address system. Our primary task it to prevent burning of plastics and tyres in the public," he said.
 
 The air quality index in the Trichy is progressively declining, said G Kamal, director, Tamil Nadu Asthma Allergy Research Foundation. While waste disposal within the city limits was extensive, it is not so on the outskirts. For example, there is no check on the burning of waste near Jeeyapuram on the Karur Bypass Road. The emission from burning of plastics and other pollutants enters the city, though it was not burnt within the city. 
 
 The city corporation’s efforts to collect segregated waste from households have reduced the chances of waste dumping onto the road. People who are in the outskirts, including daily wage labours in the MNREGA scheme, still burn the waste unmindful of its consequences. The emission travels over 2-3 km from the place of origin and won’t go up during winter leading to the formation of smog. "There were times when every street in Sirrangam would burn unused things right in front of their houses. However, it has come down drastically over the past few years," said president of Arangama Nagarnala Sangam – a resident association in Srirangam B Hemanathan. 
 
 
