PUNE: In a planned drive against “outsiders” committing vehicle thefts in the city, various teams under the Wanowrie police division recovered 82 stolen two-wheelers and arrested 13 persons in the past two weeks.

 The arrested suspects belong to six different gangs, mostly from outside Pune district. They had a simple modus operandi: visit the city, steal two-wheelers and dispose them of at a throwaway price to “needy” people. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Milind Patil, who took charge of the division recently, reviewed two-wheeler thefts from areas under  , Wanowrie, Kondhwa and Mundhwa police stations. It pointed to the involvement of “outsiders” in the thefts. A scheme for preventing and cracking two-wheeler theft cases was prepared then.
 
 The division formed special teams. They move around with a dossier on stolen vehicles. Since January 11, the teams have seized stolen vehicles from  , Solapur and Pune district areas.
 
  
 ACP Patil told TOI on Wednesday, “We have started conducting nakabandi operations twice a day in the areas under the division, intensified patrolling and deployed policemen at fixed points — five at Hadapsar and two each at Kondhwa, Wanowrie and Mundhwa — for checking suspected vehicles. The steps helped us in preventing vehicle thefts.”
 
 On detection, Patil said, “A review of vehicle thefts revealed the involvement of outsiders. Our teams have started visiting villages and weekly bazaars in various districts. They are identifying the suspected vehicles plying with and without number-plates and criminals involved in stealing and disposing of vehicles.”
 
 He said, “Teams have downloaded a stolen vehicle checker app on laptops. It helps in identifying the place from where vehicles were stolen after the registration number was inserted. The scheme helped us in busting six gangs and recovering 82 bikes, but the suspects in some cases have damaged engines and chassis numbers. We have formed four backup teams for filing chargesheets.”
 
 The stolen vehicles were recovered from Loni, Yavat, Patas, Daund, Walchandnagar, Morgaon and   in the Pune rural area, Shrigonda, Jamkhed, Asti, Karjat and Rashin in Ahmednagar district, and Maswad, Dahiwadi, Khatav-Maan and Lonand in Solapur district. Senior inspector Vishnu Pawar of the Hadapsar police said, “Hadapsar registered 300 vehicles theft cases followed by   (179) and Wakad (176). A large number of people park vehicles here in the morning, board buses for reaching their destinations and return in the evening or night. Outsiders found this as an opportunity to steal bikes and dispose them of as cheap as Rs10,000 if the vehicle was new.”
 
 He said, “Several labourers have turned into criminals because of lack of employment opportunities. Their poor economic condition forced them to steal bikes.” Inspector Anjum Bagwan, who is leading the teams, said, “The suspects are using duplicate keys, breaking locks and pulling ignition wire for stealing vehicles. They have targeted a particular type of motorcycle because it has a poor locking system. We have issued instructions to sarpanch, police patil and people of repute in villages at the three districts to sensitize people about not purchasing vehicles without proper documents.”
 
 He said, “Criminals replaced the original number-plate with a fake one, but engine and chassis numbers remained the same. We will send vehicles to the forensic science laboratory to identify the engine and chassis numbers if they have been damaged by the suspects.”
 
 
