THANE: The state government’s initiative to curb climate change, appears to remain on paper as the   flagged off last year has failed in its intended objective actively engage the citizens in a string of activities aimed to protect the environment.

 The massive citizen enthusiasm to enroll as green warriors and create awareness in the community for environment conservation appears to have met with a poor administrative plan as volunteers claim that they were not informed about the programmes, “whatever little”, organised by the forest department. 
 
 The Green Army movement, touted as a unique public-people participation plan when it was flagged-off in January 14, 2017, has not initiated any of its declared programmes, barring the state government’s tree plantation drive.
 
 Rohit Joshi, an environmentalist, said, “I work on a lot of environmental issues along with the forest department, and despite that I was out of the loop when it came to their environmental activities. I don’t think that the department organised many events in these 12 months, and whatever little they did, I was not aware of or invited.”
 
 “The only Green Army-related message I got was prior to the tree plantation drive. I tried going on the website where there were a few environment day observations mentioned, but I had no idea who to approach to join these events,” added A Deshmukh, another volunteer from Thane district.
 
 In Thane district, the targeted registration as voulunteer to the Green Army was set at 30,000, but it has exceeded to over 1.25 lakh citizens flocking to the Green Army website and enrolling themselves.
 
 We have observed all the environmental days through the year and reached out to all the active citizens in our circles to join in numerous activities including the animal census, tree plantation and so on. However, the citizens should have been alerted of these initiatives by the Forest IT department in Nagpur through SMSes,” said a forest official.
 
 Additional principal chief conservator of forests (IT) Nagpur, P Shrivastava, said, “Our department was assigned the task of creating the website and the Green Army mobile application and updating it at all times, which we are doing successfully. We even sent out numerous alerts before the mega tree plantation drive. It is the responsibility of the social forestry department to update the environmental activity plan so that the citizens are made aware of those events.”
 
 
