MUMBAI: Bharip Bahujan Mahasangh leader Prakash Ambedkar who led a   protest   of around 15,000 people at Azad Maidan on Monday threatened the state government of a much larger agitation if their demands were not met in eight days. The agitators are seeking the arrest of right-wing leader  , alias Guruji, of the outfit Shiv Pratishthan for allegedly instigating violence against Dalits at Koregaon-Bhima near Pune on January 1.

 The day-long protest led to   jams in south Mumbai, forcing commuters to walk long distances. Traffic backlogs were reported up to Byculla as protesters started congregating at Azad Maidan during morning office-going hours. JJ flyover was kept shut briefly because of bottlenecks. BEST services were affected as buses had to be diverted on 13 routes.
 
 The police denied permission for the planned route of the Elgar Morcha (Byculla to Azad Maidan; ‘Elgar’ is a Marathi battle cry). So, it was changed on Sunday evening and protestors were called directly to Azad Maidan. The march led to   of DN Road, Mahapalika Marg, P D'Mello Road, Mohammad Ali Road, Ambedkar Road.
 
 An eight-member delegation led by Ambedkar met CM Devendra Fadnavis, but didn’t get a firm assurance. 
 
 “I am not satisfied with the response given to us. Fadnavis has said action will be initiated in eight days. We will give them the time they have sought. If nothing is done, I will expose all those who are not taking any action. Then the government shouldn’t say I am launching a personal attack on anyone,” said Ambedkar.
 
 He said the main person behind the January 1 violence is Bhide, yet he hasn’t been arrested. He said the role of Milind Ekbote, who was arrested on March 14, was next in importance.
 
 Later, in the legislative council, revenue minister Chandrakant Patil said it was the state government which sought a warrant for Ekbote’s arrest. “He managed to get bail, but we pursued the issue in the Supreme Court and this is what led to his arrest,” he said. “We have to consider the sentiments of people, but we also have to ensure that the sentiments don’t get out of hand.”
 
 Union minister of state for social justice Ramdas Athavale, who addressed a press conference at Vidhan Bhavan, demanded an investigation and called for evidence before Bhide is arrested. “The riot was pre-planned... The government is not trying to protect anyone, but the police should do a thorough inquiry,” he said. “There is no acrimony between Dalits and Marathas. But if a Dalit is attacked, the Atrocities Act must apply. There must be some fear about the Act.”
 
 The issue was raised in both Houses of the legislature. Legislators in the state council demanded answers from the state government on why Bhide hadn’t yet been arrested “even almost three months after the Koregaon-Bhima violence”. “There is suspicion that the government is deliberately delaying action. Even Ekbote was arrested after the state was pulled up by the Supreme Court,” alleged leader of opposition in the state council Dhananjay Munde.
 
 Meanwhile, the rally marked the introduction of Prakash Ambedkar's son Sujat into politics; he addressed the rally at Azad Maidan. The march also received support from Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), the OBC Janganana Parishad, the Communist Party of India, and the Mali and Lingayat communities.
 
 
