Coimbatore: The national highways department will soon demolish the decrepit parapet walls of the Avinashi Road flyover and reconstruct them.  Constructed in 1975, the 43-year-old dilapidated flyover has cracked walls, trees growing out of its walls and broken parapet walls.  A senior official from the national highways department said that they have got an approval to demolish the existing parapet walls and construct new ones. They will also re-lay the roads on the flyover. “We have already issued the work order. The project is estimated at Rs 6 crore. The contractors will begin the work in a month’s time,” he said. The official added that they were aware of the poor condition of the flyover. “We had been sending proposals for nearly a decade seeking funds to renovate it,” he added.  The department had sent a proposal earlier for Rs15 crore to renovate, repair and extend a portion of the flyover.  “In 2015, the report was submitted to extend the flyover and construct another ramp from the NH office connecting the flyover to ease traffic congestion on Brookebond Road and Mill Road. But that proposal was rejected,” the official said.  Currently, the department has got an approval to set up hand railings, construct new parapet walls, and replace all joints with strip seal. “We have also decided to use epoxy coating to ensure bonding between old and new concrete to plaster in places where concrete has chipped off,” he added. Secretary of Coimbatore Consumer Cause K Kathirmathiyon said it is not just the construction part that needs to be renovated.  “There are no reflective stickers or caution boards. Two wheelers and four-wheelers often dash against the parapet wall in the centre of the flyover. There should be caution boards 100m ahead of the diversion. Many vehicles have even fallen from the flyover, earlier. So, the highways department needs to take steps to use reflector paints and stickers. Also, adequate lighting needs to be provided,” he said.  Calling it a tragedy in the making, activists said the government should extend the flyover and renovate the existing portion.  “The design itself is flawed but the department should ensure that old flyovers are inspected regularly,” said a city-based activist.  Officials said such concrete flyovers have a minimum life of 75 years. “There is nothing to worry. We will just reconstruct the parapet walls and the roads for now,” said an official. 