Mumbai:  , a Singapore-based   startup with backing from   and  , has set up shop in India following a final approval from the  . The company, which offers cross-border remittance at interbank rates, has partnered with   Bank to provide online remittance service from India.

 InstaReM is targeting overseas remittances for education and other purposes under the liberalised remittance scheme — which allows individuals to send up to $250,000 a year. Additionally, it is also looking at facilitating payments for small businesses to overseas partners.
 
 Founded by Mumbai-bred Prajit Nanu and Michael Bermingham in 2014, InstaReM is licensed as a   ( ) in Singapore, Hong Kong, Australia, Malaysia, India, Canada and the USA. It powers local payments to more than 55 countries across the globe. 
 
 “The World Bank has acknowledged us as the most competitive remittance platforms in a number of Asian corridors. We already account for 14% of the $2-billion Australia-India corridor, where we started our remittance service,” said Nanu speaking to TOI. He added that InstaReM is not only the lowest cost provider, but also among the fastest, providing funds on the same day or the next. As against the 2-4% margin that banks have (through a mark up on the interbank rate), plus SWIFT fees, InstaReM charges between 0.25% and 0.75%.
 
 According to Nanu, InstaReM provides remittances at a fraction of the cost by having accounts in banks across markets and offering them foreign exchange business in volumes. Additionally, InstaReM also plugs into local interbank payment systems, which is the equivalent of immediate payments services (IMPS) in India, that enables seamless fund transfer into the recipient’s bank account. InstaReM has raised $20 million so far with promoter’s holding around 40%. The company is now looking at a new series C fundraise in the range of another $20 million. According to Nanu, although the company has an office in several countries, it is frugal in spending and expects to break even in the first quarter of 2019.The company also provides business-to-business services on cross-border remittances.
 
 
