JAIPUR: The   leaders and the state government reached an agreement after several-hour-long talks on Saturday. A 16-point agreement was signed following which the Gujjar leaders agreed to call off their agitation slated for May 23.

 The 16-point agreement will be implemented in a time-bound manner; a weekly meeting on every Friday would be held to check its progress. The Gujjar leaders, in return, have agreed to call off their proposed agitation on May 23 and said that a memorial service would be held on the same day.
 
 The major points of the agreement also include the community’s long-standing demand about the classification of Other Backward Castes (OBCs). “The government has agreed in-principle to bifurcate the   quota as demanded by Gujjars and four other communities,” said Gujjar leader  .
 
 The agreement states that the central government has set up   about the classification of OBCs and its report is likely to be submitted soon, the commission has also invited four states including Rajasthan on June 4.
 
 “The decision taken by the Union government on the commission’s recommendations will be studied by the state government and implemented in the state accordingly,” said advocate Shailendra Singh, who was part of the Gujjar representatives.
 
 The government has also agreed in-principle to give one percent reservation in government recruitments held from December 9, 2016 to December 21, 2017. For this, the government will create shadow posts. “This particular decision was taken because before December 9, 2016, a 5% reservation was being given to maximum backward castes which included Gujjars, Rebari, Banjaras, Gadiya Luhar and  , but the court had cancelled the bill on December 9, 2017,” said an official, adding that candidates who have already been recruited will not face any problem.
 
 Similarly, the government has also assured the Gujjar leaders that all criminal cases which were filed during the agitation will be withdrawn. Another point states that all such recruitments in which the government had agreed for 5% reservation, a benefit of 1% reservation would be extended.
 
 
