MUMBAI: A woman   and an autorickshaw   were injured when the vehicle was hit by a Mercedes car driven by playback singer  ,   (30), on Monday afternoon. Versova police arrested Aditya in a case of rash driving and an act of endangering life after a medical examination for drunk driving, the report of which is awaited. The singer-actor’s car has been seized.

 Aditya, who also suffered minor injuries, rushed Surekha Shivekar (32) and the   driver, Rajkumar Palekar (54), to Kokilaben Hospital in his car. The auto toppled after Aditya’s car hit it in front of Indralok Building, Lokhandwala Back Road,   (W)
 
 Police learnt about the incident few hours later when they received a call from the hospital about two accident victims being admitted there. Locals who witnessed the accident had also alerted the police control room. Police said Aditya was taking a U-turn and misjudged the traffic when his car hit the auto.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (zone IX) Paramjit Singh Dahiya said Aditya was arrested late in the evening. “Aditya took the victims in his car to the hospital and got them medical aid. Palekar, a Vile Parle resident, is serious, Shivekar, the passenger from Andheri (W), is out of danger. Aditya has borne the medical expenses and did not speed away after the accident,” Versova police senior inspector Kiran Kale said.
 
 Locals told police that after Aditya’s car hit the auto, it toppled, and both passengers suffered injuries. “We learnt from locals that the car driver got out of his vehicle, put the passenger and auto driver in his car, took them to Kokilaben Hospital, and provided them medical aid. We are going through CCTV footage to know how the accident occurred,” said inspector Sanjay Pawar.
 
 Aditya was called to the police station late in the evening and arrested. He was booked under Indian Penal Code sections 279 (rash driving on a public way) and 338 (grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and section 184 of the Motor Vehicles Act.
 
 
