KANNUR: The   district conference has demanded that the central government should give approval to the   railway link to make it a reality. 

 Passing a resolution at the ongoing conference on Sunday, the party said that the project had been under active consideration even during the British period, but it was delayed due to various reasons. However, there is hope of reviving the project thanks to the intervention of the LDF government. But it should also get the green signal from the central government, said the resolution.
 
 When A K Gopalan was elected to the first  , he had mooted this proposal and in 1956, when Lal Bahadur Shastri was India's railway minister, he travelled from   to Thalassery and announced that the rail link would become a reality, it pointed out. 
 
 Though the project was discussed during the tenure of various governments, and also many action committees took up the campaign, the railway board rejected the proposal saying that the link would be 298kilometres long and it would not be financially viable. 
 
 However, with the LDF government reviving the project, now there is hope that it would become a reality, said the party.
 
 In another resolution, the party alleged that the RSS is unleashing violence in the district, in an effort to weaken the CPM. 
 
 The Sangh Parivar is selectively targeting the CPM strongholds and unleash one-sided attack, alleged the resolution, which added that the intensity of the attacks increased after the LDF came to power. 
 
 On the other hand, the same RSS also spreads canards about the CPM and launch nation-wide campaign saying that their workers are unable to survive in Kannur, it said. Further, all those who believe in democracy and want peace in the region should come together and isolate the attackers, urged the resolution. 
 
 Meanwhile, according to sources, 56 people participated in the discussion on the report presented in the conference, and some of them criticized the 'luxurious' lifestyle of some senior leaders.
 
 The conference will conclude on Monday. 
 
 
