KOLKATA: The price burden has become heavier for appcab commuters nowadays as surge pricing prevails for the better part of the day and it has become difficult to figure out when and why it prevails. Also, it has become next to impossible to gauge whether surge fare prevails at a particular time as the apps have stopped showing the extra rate, said commuters.

 
 According to sources, the logic that surge fare is determined by an algorithm to lure drivers to hit the streets is not always true. Not all aggregators share the higher fare earned out of surge pricing with driver-partners. “Ola, for instance, runs on package deal with the driver-partner. So, surge or non-surge, driverpartner would get what the package deal underscores,” said Indranil Banerjee, convenor of the West Bengal Online Cab Operators’ Guild.
 
  
 It is a myth that surge fare will ensure you cab, claimed a commuter. “I am refused by cabbies mostly when surge fare prevails. I booked a cab for my trip from Rabindra Sadan to Taratala. I was in real hurry so I was ready to pay even 4X fare. My phone showed Rs 520 when normally it ranges from Rs 130 to Rs 150. But the cabby cancelled after 10 minutes of accepting my booking. The system offered me another cab,” said  , a home-maker and a regular app-cab user.
 
 Ranjit Meta, a private insurance company executive, has not found a non-surge period in recent times except in the afternoon. “Be it in the morning or evening till very late in the night, you are bound to face surge fare. From Chinar Park to the airport, the distance is barely 3km. Normally, the fare does not exceed Rs 50. But I have been asked for Rs 300 for the same distance,” said Meta. “On Sundays and holidays, the fare peaks further, making it impossible for us to venture out,” he added.
 
 Even the normal fare of app cabs are now higher than that of yellow cabs, claimed Bishop Ghosh. “I commute daily from Ananya cinema hall in   to Chandni Chowk. Yellow cabs charge Rs 128-Rs 130. But I have never found app-cab fare for that stretch below Rs 180. But these days, I don’t find non-surge fare, which often hovers around Rs 350-Rs 480. I became a votary of app cabs because of non-refusal and hassle-free services. But the aggregators must think of the interest of commuters as well,”   added.
 
 Though cab aggregators are facing flak over surge pricing, the concept is hardly new, said a source working with online aggregators. “Airlines do it, and so does everyone — from the humble vegetable vendor to five-star vacation resorts. Even Railways prices fares are now dynamic. And most of us have paid higher fares, after much haggling, for autos and taxis in crunch times, haven’t we?” he reasoned.
 
 Most commuters, however, don’t buy the ‘it’s-the-norm’ defence. They see surge pricing as ploy to take advantage of helpless commuters. Governments often have little choice to try to stop surge pricing. “While market pricing is fine, it must also be seen to be fair to consumers,” said Sourav De, a filmmaker and regular app-cab user.
 
