Madurai: If one takes into consideration all the grinders and washing machines operating in the country, chances are likely that 99 per cent of the belts in them were manufactured in Madurai. In the last sixty years, Madurai has been silently evolving into the belt manufacturing hub of the country, next only to Delhi. According to manufacturers, Madurai caters to the entire demand of the country in all the three segments, namely industrial belts, automobile belts and the belts in appliances. The belt transmits the power from the engine to the traction. 

 Belt-making process starts at the rubber mill where the rubber is melted and sheeted. Using moulds, profile calendaring is done on these sheets while plain rubber sheets at the other end are carefully reinforced with polyester chord. In the next phase of wrapping, these two sheets are stuck together. The reinforced sheets are then cut into individual belts on the patterns and jacketed with fabric laced with rubber coating. In the final phase, the belts undergo a curing phase when the rubber is vulcanised and polished before being packed.
 
 The belts in general are called Vee Belts since the pattern resembles the English alphabet V. However, there are other varieties too like cogged and multi-vee belts, mostly used in automobiles. Madurai produces belts of various sizes starting from 12 inches that are used in smaller motors to 800 inches which fire larger industrial machines in power production too.
 
 Belt making in Madurai started in 1955 with Fenner. Dinesh Davidson, the company’s plant head, said that Fenner had been in India since 1929 as a trading company at Kolkata. They decided to establish the plant at Madurai because of its strategic advantage. Madura Coats, established as Harvey Mills in Madurai, was producing two components like fabric and chord required for belt industry. The important raw material, natural rubber, was available in Kerala from where it could be ferried to Madurai easily. 
 
 One of the belt manufacturing industrialists, M Chandrasekaran, who is also joint secretary of Madurai District Tiny and Small Industries Association (Maditssia), said that almost all the belts in home appliances were manufactured in Madurai. “Such was their quality and price that Chinese products which turned out to be a threat to many products could not compete with the belt manufactured in Madurai”, he said.
 
 Chandrasekaran also credited Fenner with pioneering the belting industry in Madurai while some of the company’s former workers including his father Muniandi were instrumental in starting belt making units in Madurai. “Most of our units are on the outskirts employing people from the locality. Thus, we sustain the villages around our factories”, he added.
 
 
