NEW DELHI: The Centre on Friday reacted sharply to petitioners’ charge that tagging every citizen with   to track their every activity was akin to putting them in “Nazi concentration camps” and told the   that the noise was because it plugged pilferage of money meant for the poor. 

 Seeking stay on government’s notification mandatorily linking Aadhaar to almost all public utility services despite the apex court’s categorical orders that no citizen could be forced to enrol for the UIDAI number, petitioners’ counsel   said the   government’s eagerness to monitor each activity of every citizen reminded him of the Emergency imposed by a totalitarian government in 1977.
 
 “Now, Aadhaar number is made mandatory for admission of children to schools, contrary to orders of a constitution bench where the challenge to validity of Aadhaar is pending. This requires the court to intervene and stay the notifications that are forcing citizens to enrol for Aadhaar,”   said.
 
 Attorney general   sharply when the counsel compared Aadhaar to putting citizens in a “concentration camp” by a “totalitarian government”.
 
  said, “Nearly 350 million people below the poverty line have benefited from Aadhaar. The money is being directly transferred to their accounts. And the allegation is government is converting the country into a concentration camp? Nothing can be farther from truth. Earlier, half of the money meant for these poor people was pilfered midway. Now that has stopped. That is why such noise against Aadhaar.” 
 
 The sharp exchange between the   and Divan took place before a bench of Justices J Chelameswar, A M Khanwilkar and  , even when the bench said it would be appropriate that the larger bench, which has been assigned to test the validity of Aadhaar, decide the interim applications seeking stay of government notifications.
 
 “It would not be proper for a three-judge bench to entertain the interim applications at present. Please request the Chief Justice for constituting the appropriate five-judge bench for urgent hearing on the interim applications. If he expresses inability, then we might take up these applications for hearing,” the bench said. Divan and Venugopal said they would make a joint request before the CJI seeking expeditious constitution of a larger bench for commencement of hearing to decide validity of Aadhaar. 
 
 
