CHENNAI: More than five months after the   last August dismissed an appeal by the   government and directed it to follow the   for medical admissions, the state on January 27 extended the number of coaching centres for the test from 100 to 412.

 Yet, even on Sunday, more than a week later and with only 90 days to go before the test this year, only one of the 10 coaching centres that the government says it is operating in Chennai was actually open - and with just a handful of the thousands of state board Class XII students who desperately require the coaching present. Sunday is the only day of the week that the coaching centres are open, leaving   aspirants who need the tuition to catch up with other students, particularly those from   schools who study a curriculum with subject matter similar to  , barely seven sessions to come up to mark.
 
 At the single centre of six that TOI visited and found was open, at   in MGR Nagar, a class was in progress but fewer than 15 students were present despite each centre having a sanctioned strength of 60 to 75. 
 
 
 
 Support staff and official sources said nine had yet to get off the ground because funds that the state had sanctioned for equipment and online classes had not reached headmasters of the government schools in which the centres are located.
 
 Government records, sourced through RTI, show that the government has sanctioned ?19.78 crore for the project.
 
 A school education department official admitted that nine of the 10 schools in the city were not currently open and blamed a lack of funds to set up projectors, computers and dish antennas for online classes.
 
 But he said several centres had closed because of lack of interest of students who did not enroll for the classes.
 
 Support staff at thecoaching centres, however, said the centres had never opened to begin with. Students did show up at these centres but returned home disappointed after learning that there were no teachers available and the schools had not scheduled any classes, they said.
 
 Among the schools that TOI checked and found did not have NEET coaching centres were Madrasa I Azam Higher Secondary School on Anna Salai, Ambedkar Government Higher Secondary School, Egmore, and St Joseph’s Higher Secondary School, Choolai. The situation is as bleak or worse in other districts.
 
 Experts and students attributed the state’s failure to have the centres up and running to two additional reasons: Students from Englishmedium schools could not understand technical concepts in Tamil and the training schedule — between 9am and 6pm with a one-hour every Sunday — overlapping annual practical exams.
 
 “During this eight-hour period, teachers conduct classes in English for less than two hours,” one Class XII student said.
 
 Also, the training syllabus was different from what the students studied at school.
 
 “Students can solve questions, in physics and chemistry in particular, only by applying concepts from National Council for Education Research and Training (NCERT) books that CBSE schoolsuse,” another student told TOI.
 
 “We need the trainers to go slow while they explain these concepts,” he said.
 
 
