VADODARA: A barista working in a city-based café chain undertook a 100-day bike tour across the country to explore the culture of coffee in different states.

 Although, Binny  , who travelled through 24 states and a Union territory, consumed different forms of coffee – with cumin seeds and fenugreek to having it with black salt and in a ‘kulhad’ – he learnt that there is lot of disparity among the people in terms of knowledge who consume the beverage and also many myths surrounding it.
 
 “I always wanted to do a bike tour for something meaningful. And since a bike ride for a commodity like coffee was never done, I decided to take it up as it is also related to my job,” said Varghese, who travelled 15,700 kilometres.
 
 Varghese travelled not only through traditional coffee consuming states in southern India, but also through central and northern states, where café culture has come up in past several years. In central and northern India, instant coffee and Italian styled cappuccino are the most popular ones, but people there hardly have any idea about the Indian-styled filter coffee which is consumed in southern states, said Varghese, who consumed 430 cups of coffee during the tour. 
 
 “Just because cappuccino is first in the menu card or a friend is ordering, people order it. But they do not know about its origin and neither about filter coffee,” Varghese said.
 
 “However, in Karnataka, Kerala and   too where 58 per cent of coffee production is done, people are unaware about the facts revolving around coffee’s contents,” he said, adding that coffee, which is consumed in southern states, has a root called chicory, but very few know about it and why it is present.
 
 “When the coffee prices shot up drastically many years ago, chicory which has no taste used to be added in powder form to bring down the prices and make the coffee more dense. Even now, chicory, ranging from five to 49 per cent, is added in the coffee but people do not know about it,” said Varghese.
 
 While Varghese shared his knowledge with people, he also learnt about different styles of coffee consumed at different places which he plans to introduce in his work.
 
 
