GURUGRAM: Residents of  , a township in Sector 66, have been running from pillar to post after school buses refused to provide pick up and drop facilities for their children in the absence of a proper road to the society. 

 Both the authorities and the developer have washed their hands of the matter, residents alleged.
 
 Around 600 families living in the township are now struggling to send their kids to school. Visiting government and developer’s offices to plead for the road have become a daily routine for them. 
 
 After meeting Gurugram deputy commissioner   last week, residents met the police commissioner and the district town planner on Tuesday to highlight their concerns.
 
 “There is no access road to our condominium. The residents are dependent on a 15-foot-wide village revenue road for connectivity, which is inadequate for our needs. It is impossible for school buses and emergency response vehicles like fire tenders and ambulances to reach the society as it isn’t wide enough for them. The road also requires frequent repair and maintenance, which no one has taken responsibility of,” said  , president of Ireo Uptown RWA.
 
 Pahuja said DTCP gave an occupation certificate to the developer, Ireo, even though the 24m-wide road was not ready, which is mandatory according to the Gurugram Master Plan. 
 
 “The developer handed over the project to residents and washed its hands of any responsibility to build the promised road,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile,   expressed its inability to help the residents, saying that there was no provision for the same in the policy. 
 
 According to the Master Plan, the onus of constructing a 24m-wide road falls on the private developer. But the policy has failed to address the issue in case the developer fails to construct its portion of the road due to project delays and lack of clarity over acquisition of land outside the licensed area.
 
 District town planner (DTP) R S Batth said an inspection of the sector and the condominium in question had been done. 
 
 “Now, we are looking into revenue documents to find out who owns the land coming in the way of the proposed 24m-wide road connecting the township. We will submit a report to the head office about the status of the road and the problems faced by residents,” he said.
 
 As per the conditions, the construction of a 24m-wide road coming under the licensed area is the responsibility of the builder concerned. There is no policy for acquisition of land in case private land is coming in the way of further connectivity, Batth added.
 
 When contacted, Ireo said the project has two proposed two 24m-wide roads, one connecting the society to Sector 65-66 road and another to Sector 66-67 road. Ireo claimed to have constructed its part of the road and said it couldn’t construct the entire road as it didn’t own the land for it. “The government should intervene in the matter. We are ready to cooperate with other developers for completion of the road,” an Ireo spokesperson said.
 
 
