MUMBAI: After hitting lenders with a sledgehammer, the   has come out with a pain balm. Banks that were still reeling under the impact of the central bank’s new bad loan recognition norms were provided major relief on Thursday in the form of easier provisioning rules and postponement of new accounting standards as well as lowered inflation forecast despite firming oil prices. As a result, the Sensex was up 578 points to 33,597, bolstered by bank shares.

 
 In his policy statement for 2018-19, RBI governor Urjit Patel went easy on bank regulations. In a throwback to the 1990s, the RBI forced corporates to have a minimum level of ‘loan component’ from the sanctioned working capital limit. The move, in effect, transfers part of treasury management risk from banks to corporates.
 
 In his post-policy press conference, Patel steered clear of all controversies including regulatory issues faced by private banks. When asked about the RBI’s powers to oversee private banks vis-à-vis problems it faces when it comes to PSU banks, Patel said that it was a separate issue and he had raised only the legal limitations faced by the RBI. 
 
 “What was said in the speech relates to legal powers that the RBI has, which seem to be asymmetric between private and public sector banks, and that has got nothing to do with our supervisory and regulatory action on any bank concerned,” said Patel. According to deputy governor N S Vishwanathan, the   Regulation Act needs to be amended to remove this asymmetry.
 
 Bankers said the lower inflation projections could stem the increase in interest rates. In March, several banks hiked their marginal cost of lending rates (MCLR).
 
 In another relief to banks, the RBI deferred the implementation of the Indian Accounting Standards (IndAS) on the grounds that the necessary legislative amendments were not in place. It also told lenders that it was not activating the countercyclical capital buffer. This requires banks to set aside capital at times of high credit growth so that the buffer can be reduced when the economy eases. 
 
 The move comes close on the heels of the RBI going back on an earlier provisioning norm where it had asked banks to make 50% provision on loans that were referred to the bankruptcy court.
 
 Bank stocks jumped following the RBI’s softer approach. The BSE Bankex was up 3% with Bank of Baroda and State Bank of India rising the most with gains of 6% and 5% respectively. Meanwhile, the yield on the 10-year bond fell to a low of 7.18%, buoyed by the benign inflation forecast.
 
 RBL Bank economist Rajni Thakur said, “While the status quo on policy rates were on expected lines, the Goldilocks scenario that the RBI has outlined for the new fiscal — with higher growth expectations and lower inflationary forecasts — could very well indicate rates on hold for the whole year. It will boost the general market sentiment and bond markets in particular.”
 
 ICRA MD Naresh Takkar said, “The relief for banks with the deferment of IndAS, lowering of the CPI inflation projections for FY2019, focus on strengthening macroeconomic fundamentals, as well as the high likelihood of an extended pause, have significantly cooled G-sec yields and spurred the markets, even though the status quo in today’s policy was as per market expectations.”
 
 
