MUMBAI: The death of four contract labourers in the   crashmay have led to the crane operator being arrested for negligence, but the police would still need to probe the case to ascertain if any negligence could be pinned on the contractor too.

 “Besides, the families of the dead labourers and that of the one still fighting for his life in hospital would be entitled to seek compensation from the contractor and also the civic administration whose work on manhole maintenance he was executing,” said senior counsel  .
 
 Lawyers practising criminal law pointed out that the police cannot rule out the role of the contractor, if any, without further investigation. It has to be seen whether the contractor was given the contract though a public bidding process and whether the equipment, including the crane belonged to him or had been hired.
 
 “If it is his machine, then he has direct responsibility as he cannot be that callous but has to ensure that it is in full working condition,’’ said advocate  .
 
 If he has hired the machinery, then he should have some contract with that person to ensure that it was in a working condition, added Mundergi.
 
 Criminal action can also be launched for a serious and more graver offence of culpable homicide if the crane was found to have—following a forensic examination that needs to be done— to be defective enough to not withstand the weight of the workers or to last through the job at hand, said a former police officer. Advocate  , who also take up criminal cases, said that police probe must include a forensic report on the machine and the responsibility of the contractor.
 
 “If it is found after a detailed probe that a defective crane was put in operation by a contractor, the police can even invoke, Section 304 of Indian Penal Code for culpable homicide not amounting to murder for having the knowledge that an action could lead to someone’s death,’’ said Badheka.
 
 “Given the dangerous nature of the task at hand, greater responsibility lay on the contractor to ensure everything was in working condition,’’ he added.
 
