NEW DELHI: With   working overtime,   are spending   ahead of the   on Wednesday. On Tuesday, the Central Board of Secondary Education was forced to issue a   clarifying that “students will appear from the   using the same admit card” following rumours of new admit cards being issued. 

 A few senior officials are likely to stay overnight at the CBSE headquarters. Six lakh students will take the re-test across 4,000 centres. The Class XII economics and Class X maths papers were held on March 26 and 28 March, respectively. On March 28, CBSE announced it would reconduct the two examinations as both papers were leaked. However, the board later decided not to conduct a re-exam for Class X maths after evaluating the impact of the leaked paper and “keeping in mind the best interests of the students”.
 
 In the aftermath of the leaks, CBSE has upped its vigil. Though confident about the preventive measures being taken, board officials are leaving nothing to chance. According to CBSE sources, a monitoring team of senior officials is keeping a close watch on the entire process. Officials are also keeping tab on social media posts. Additional checks have been put in place from the time of the preparation of the paper till it reaches the exam centres.
 
 The HRD ministry had earlier this month set up a “high-powered committee” to examine the process of conducting the examinations. The seven-member panel is headed by former HRD secretary Vinay Sheel Oberoi and will submit its report by May 31.
 
 The committee’s other members include former CBSE controller of examination and secretary, UP Examination Board, Pavnesh Kumar; India representative on the executive board of Unesco and former NCERT director and NCTE chairman J S Rajput; former vice-chancellor, SNDT Women’s University, Vasudha Kamat; and former director of education Krishna Mohan Tripathy.
 
 “The committee is already looking at measures to be taken by the board to further strengthen the processes in order to make them secure and foolproof through the use of technology. However, to ensure that there is no lapse, CBSE is leaving no stone unturned. There is also more manpower on ground,” an official said.
 
 
