Sankranti, the harvest festival, might have come and gone. But Vizag’s weekenders are not done harvesting yet. Well, we’re talking about the must-do activity that’s keeping everyone busy this season — strawberry picking! If you haven’t jumped into an SUV and sped off to the picturesque Lambasingi yet in search of strawberry fields ripe for picking, then you haven’t done anything, say Vizagites, who swear by this pastime that’s caught the fancy of many a city folk in the recent past.

  Diya Chockroborty, a high schooler who’s just back from one of these expeditions can’t stop gushing yet. “I have been to Lambasingi before and have always loved the serene and peaceful ambience there. But recently, I heard the buzz about these strawberry fields somewhere there and had been waiting for my parents to take me there. I love   and I like making jams, tarts and puddings using fresh berries, so I pleaded with my folks to take me there. It was heaven! I collected tons of strawberries there and let me tell you, the stuff we buy in the stores is not a patch on the fresh ones picked from the fields.” 
 
  For Shruti Samayathulla, a graduate, the strawberry picking sojourn was like an extension of the Sankranti holidays. “After Pongal, a short trip with the family is always welcome. I had never been to Lambasingi before, and considering its proximity to the city, we thought why not! The early mornings in the hill station were stunning, completely veiled under the thick cover of mist. as the day progresses, it slowly lifts its veil to reveal some spectacular scenes. plucking fresh strawberries was like the cherry on the pudding, literally.”
 
  “Initially, I was surprised to see the strawberry fields. it was awesome to raid the fields and pluck the berries. And the best part is, one can pluck as many as he/she wants. The caretakers also sell strawberries there,” says Shruti. 
 
  Owing to its rich and extensive cultivation of strawberries, berry picking is one of the most popular activities enjoyed in Lambasingi by the locals and tourists alike. “I could see many honeymooners engrossed in the activity throughout the day,” she adds.
 
  Gaurav Sharma, 21, who drove down to Lambasingi with his friends over the weekend says they made some really fond memories. “It was a well-planned weekend and it truly panned out fabulously! Picking strawberries was the highlight of the trip.We headed out after breakfast to the fields nearby to Lambasingi because we didn’t want to miss the fresh misty mornings at a farm. There was little nip in the air and we were surrounded by   all around us. We also learnt to pick the juiciest strawberries and brought home dabbas full of them,” he says.
 
  So, when are you going strawberry picking?
 
 - Debalina.Talukdar@timesgroup.com
