By:
 CHANDIGARH: Frequent bee attacks have become a cause for serious concern. Over the past three days, the   helpline received about 45 to 50 complaints of bee attacks across the city and hospitals are getting six to seven such cases on a daily basis. 

 
  
  
 
 
 According to MC officials, the danger of bee attack will remain till the end of summer. The season begins with spring. Officials said the bee attack menace is a major public concern. They also said commuters need to take care not to get stung. 
 
 On Tuesday morning, a woman rider travelling to Sector 8 struggled to reach her work place with a fresh bee sting wound on her right ear. With bee hives mushrooming in the city, daily commuters and children playing in parks are at risk. Now that summer break is almost here, the danger has become ever present.
 
 According to the Chandigarh MC health department, the number of bee attack complaints in the city has gradually reduced, owing to seasonal transition from spring to summer. In February 2018, the department registered a peak of 25 cases daily. As summer is approaching, the number has trickled down to about 15 to 20 cases per day.
 
 Most of the complaints are from around Panjab University and green-belt areas which have the maximum  . “We receive most complaints from areas like Rock Garden and  . A major case came up in Sector 11, Chandigarh about 15 days ago, where a number of students of Government Girls College suffered bee stings,” said Gopal Rawat, a pest control officer.
 
 To tackle the problem, the MC is registering complaints through an online portal. A toll-free helpline number, 155304 has also been instituted where people can call for removal of bee hives. 
 
 After complaints are registered with the helpline, they are immediately forwarded to the health department and further action is taken. The MC field staff obliterates the beehives using diesel pumps. “We use a big brass diesel tank, spray it on the beehive and burn it,” said Rawat. This has helped remedy the situation.
 
 
