MUMBAI: Baba Ramdev-led Patanjali Ayurved is said to have made the highest offer for the debt-ridden   and soya foods maker   Industries that is undergoing bankruptcy process, multiple sources familiar with the matter said.

 
 Ruchi Soya faces claims of Rs 12,000 crore and was pushed into the auction process as part of the government’s drive to clear bad loans choking credit at Indian banks. 
 
 Patanjali Ayurved has made a bid of Rs 4,000-4,500 crore for Ruchi Soya, beating Adani Wilmar,   and Emami’s offers.   has made the second highest offer for Ruchi Soya. 
 
 Patanjali Ayurved spokesman S K Tijarawala said the company will not be able to comment unless it is officially declared. “The creditors must ensure that the bidding process is transparent, equitable and justiceful,” Tijarawala added.
 
  
  
 
 The bids were opened last week and the creditors will meet again to consider the eligibility of the players. They will not just look into the financial offer, but will also weigh other aspects of the bids, sources said. A March 21   report said that creditors are expected to take a 33% haircut on their exposure to Ruchi Soya.
 
 TOI had reported on May 3 about Patanjali, Adani Wilmar and others submitting bids for Ruchi Soya. 
 
 Ruchi Soya, famous for its Nutrela soya products, is Patanjali’s first big merger and acquisition play. The deal will boost Patanjali’s growth story, which from a small pharmacy in 1997, has become a consumer products giant with sales of Rs 10,561 crore in fiscal 2017. The company, best known for its disruptive business model, aims to have a Rs 25,000 crore turnover in the next few years.
 
 Patanjali already has a tie-up with Ruchi Soya for edible oil refining and packaging. Ruchi Soya, promoted by Dinesh Shahra, has two dozen plants for crushing, milling, refining and packaging. Its Nutrela is the largest selling soya foods brand in the country and has more than 50% share of the market.
 
 Dinesh Shahra and family holds about 55% stake in Ruchi Soya that has a market cap of about Rs 448 crore. The family’s holding in the company is expected to come down to single digits after the completion of the auction process.
 
 
