KOLKATA: The CID probing the gold extortion case has seized a total 100 bhoris gold ornaments and gold coins from two lockers of a nationalised bank’s   branch belonging to former   SP  , accused in the cashfor-gold muddle. The current market value of the seizure is alittle more than Rs 33 lakh.

 The seized gold quantity — 40 bhoris from the first locker and 60 bhoris from the second — overshoots the gold deposits that the retired IPS, now in hiding, announced from an undisclosed location, a day before on Monday. It is nearly 25 bhoris more than the 75 tolas that   Ghosh had stated in her asset declaration to the government in 1994 before joining police service. Bharati’s lawyer   present during the search operations, however, hastened to add that his client made a declaration in 1994 and updated it again in 2007. What’s more is a substantial amount of the gold jewellery has the hallmark logo indicating that they were acquired post 2000. Locker register shows that Bharati had last visited her locker in the last week of December 2017. CID will now wait for the report from fingerprint experts to ascertain who had brought the jewellery to the lockers.
 
  
  
 The CID team armed with the written permission from a Ghatal court entered the bank at around 12.30pm and started the search. Bharati’s lawyer was waiting at the bank while her husband MAV Raju came with the CID team after being questioned at Bhawani Bhavan for more than two hours in the morning — from 9am to 11.30am. The state agency produced before him the list of seizure done earlier at the duo’s Naktala residence and also their flats at Madurdaha. The list mentioned among others Rs 2.4 crore cash, a whole lot of land documents. Investigators wanted Raju to disclose their joint income so that they can match it with the assets under their possession.
 
 The former West Midnapore SP had pleaded time and again that she had a tax free income of Rs 50 lakh a month during her assignment with the United Nations for a couple of years. CID officials wanted her husband Raju to corroborate if all the income taken together can match the acquired assets. His statement was recorded. Raju was taken again for the second round of questioning soon after the search. He was asked to throw light on the apparently new hallmarked gold jewellery.
 
 The CID search operation is a sequel to an extortion complaint made by   of Daspur against few police officers in West Midnapore, including Ghosh. A West Midnapore police officer recounted that complainant Das was the motor transport officer of Jhargram district then and Ghosh was in additional charge of Jhargram.
 
