HYDERABAD: A biker who had five iron rods piercing into his body and stood in that condition for an agonising six hours after he plunged 10ft below from an underconstruction bridge on Pochannapet road in   on Sunday midnight is battling for his life. Gopaldas Suman (25), a resident of Boduppal, was operated in   on Monday where doctors removed the five iron rods. 

 Miraculously, all his vital organs like heart, kidney and lungs are perfect. Gandhi Hospital duty resident medical officer Dr M Swetha told TOI that Suman's liver suffered a slight injury. "Main worry is with multiple cuts to the intestine as Suman had suffered several intestinal injuries for which he is being operated upon. Surgeons are stitching the intestine but his condition is still critical. We will have to wait for post-operative care to see how he recovers," she said. 
 
 Suman skidded off the road and fell on the dangerously leftover steel rods on the bridge at around 12.30 am. He had to excruciatingly suffer by being in that state for six hours. Finally, at around 6.30 am, locals noticed him and reported the matter to the authorities. Bachannapet SI M Bharat, who is investigating the case, told TOI: "Suman, a driver by profession, was riding the bike to attend a function and was returning to Hyderabad around 12.10am. Within 15 minutes from the time he set out, due to overspeeding, he skidded off the road and directly fell on iron rods, five of which pierced his body. Suman was completely conscious throughout the night despite the rods puncturing his body. Around 6.15am, local villagers who came to fetch water from nearby wells saw him and informed us." 
 
 Suman cried for help but none of the vehicles that passed the district road could hear him. "We procured a gascutter from   and got the rods sawed off so that he can be shifted with the rod portions on his body to the hospital. He was taken to Aler Government Hospital from where he was shifted to Gandhi Hospital for better treatment," Bharat said. 
 
 The SI said there was no negligence on the part of the contractor constructing the bridge. The contractor placed a heap of gravel extending upto a height of 4ft on the roadside to prevent any mishaps.
 
 
