CHANDIGARH: The   (CAT) has allowed application of a group instructor (GI) of Government Industrial Training Institute for Women in which consequential benefits, including seniority were demanded. Following this, the   has directed the director technical education, UT to prepare a fresh list of senior group instructors.

 The orders have come on the petition moved by Naval   against   orders whereby his representation for the fixation of seniority from the date of direct selection in the cadre of group instructor and claim of other consequential benefits were dismissed by the authority.
 
 It was argued that Verma was working as an instructor in the Government Industrial Training Institute for Women, Sector 11, Chandigarh. After advertisement of direct recruitment on April 14, 2007, he applied for the post of group instructor. He was selected as a GI by a selection committee.
 
 Meanwhile, a  , who had been working as an instructor in the institute, filed an application challenging the advertisement, and claimed promotion on the post of GI, without arraying the applicant, as a party therein.
 
 Due to the stay order in the application of Kanta, Verma could not join as GI. However, later the application of Kanta was dismissed by the tribunal on September 16, 2009. But the department failed to issue appointment letter to Verma for which he again filed an application in the tribunal, mentioning that he did not get the appointment letter that was allowed by the tribunal.
 
 The department finally issued the appointment letter to Verma on February 2, 2013. It was argued that the joining of the applicant got delayed due to a stay in the litigations. Verma eventually joined on April 2, 2013 as a GI.
 
 Meanwhile, the authority had promoted two other instructors, Suman and Anuka, in the same cadre of GI. On this, Verma alleged that though actual joining of the applicant got delayed due to litigations and reasons beyond his control, he was not given the seniority from the date of his selection, and the other two -- Suman and Anuka -- who were juniors to him, were promoted in the years 2010 and 2012, respectively, and wrongly made senior to him by the competent authority.
 
 Verma filed an application challenging the order of promoting Suman and Anuka, and claimed seniority from the date of his selection.
 
 In a reply, the department refuted the claim made by Verma and stated that he cannot claim seniority from the back date of his appointment.
 
 It was stated that the pendency of prolonged litigation will not entitle the applicant for retrospective seniority.
 
 After hearing both the counsels in the matter, the tribunal held that Verma was entitled to his seniority from the date of his selection as GI and would hold a rank above Suman and Anuka.
 
 
