NAGPUR: Construction of a skywalk and a slip road can ease the congestion at Jaistambh Square near the railway station according to a study by Rites Ltd. The study by the public limited company, which stands for  , says the present traffic woes on the western side of the railway station are primarily due to ongoing construction of Ram Jhula Phase-II, poor traffic management and road structure. 

 The   had entrusted Rites to undertake the study of this junction and find solutions to ease traffic. A delegation of city NGO Vidarbha Taxpayers Association had met district guardian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule who directed the   to commission the study.
 
 The Rites report has suggested the improvement in road geometrics, availability of pedestrian infrastructure, encroachment free and walkable footpaths for minimal vehicular-pedestrian conflict.
 
 It has suggested a skywalk for the safe movement of pedestrians from Punjab National Bank to railway station and a slip road (a road entering or leaving a motorway or dual carriageway) allowing a right turn for traffic from LIC Square towards station. This road will start descending near the DRM office on Central Avenue and will have a right turn from below the Ram Jhula bridge towards the station on the western side itself.
 
 TOI has repeatedly highlighted the traffic problem at this busy junction. The snarls extend on to the station road, the flyover on which is set to be demolished now, as well as on the Santra Market side.
 
 The study was carried out before Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari gave directives to demolish the existing railway station flyover to decongest the station road. It also shows that the station flyover plays no significant role in easing traffic movement.
 
 MSRDC has convened a meeting to table the report on May 4 which will be attended by district collector, civic chief, NIT chairman, divisional railway manager, commissioner of police, DCP (traffic), Vidarbha Taxpayers’ Association chairman and Zonal Railway Users’ Consultative Committee Nagpur (ZRUCC). TOI has had an exclusive look at the study report.
 
 The VTA had come up with its own plan to decongest the spot. It had proposed to extend the landing of Ram Jhula Phase II from Jaistambh Square to Kingsway, near the State Bank of India or Bank of India building. 
 
 The MSRDC too had a plan. It had proposed to construct an underpass near the Punjab National Bank for traffic moving towards Central Avenue from LIC Square. This was to also have a right turn towards the station on the western side.
 
 The ZRUCC, in its suggestion, wanted a slip road to segregate the traffic going toward railway station from those wanting to go over the Ram Jhula. 
 
 The study, which also said that traffic cops had failed to ease the congestion, points out that the width of the road between LIC Square and Jaistambh Square is inconsistent and varies between 5.8m and 19.2m. Rites pointed that the existing road will be able to cater to the future traffic demand if some measures are put in place.
 
 The meeting on May 4 will discuss the various possibilities on this stretch.
 
 
