KOLKATA: The process to instal three new pairs of boom barriers at Exide crossing started on Tuesday to cover all four ends of the intersection in the next two days. A second phase of trial run is scheduled to begin over the weekend or early next week, following which Exide crossing will be the first connector in the city to use the technologically advanced tools for pedestrian crossover movement.

  had installed the first pair of barriers at the crossing on February 8 and began a trial run last Monday. The barriers worked fine for three days but then it started experiencing glitches. The machines were shut down and ropes made a comeback.
 
 “The glitch has been repaired but we will restart the operation after the installation of all eight barriers at the four crossover points. The installation work is supposed to be over within a day or two and we will start another trial run by the weekend or early next week,” said a senior officer at Lalbazar.
 
 As per the initial set up, the pedestrian signals at the two crossover points — one in front of Haldirams and other in front of Exide on two sides of   — operated at the same time even as vehicles were allowed to turn left from AJC Bose Road as well as JL Nehru Road. Hence the entire idea was lost.
 
 “We have worked on the system and now each of the barriers will open and close independently, in sync with the pedestrian signals. Once this model becomes foolproof, we will replicate it at other crossings,” said an engineer.
 
 On Tuesday, the labourers dug up a portion of the pavements, completed the wiring job connecting the sensors and power cables to the base of the steel plates and installed the orange boxes that would hold the barriers on six ends of the crossing — in front of the two Metro station gates on either side of  , in front of Maidan police station and in front of the rear door of Haldirams.
 
 According to Kolkata Police sources, this is the first time a police force has been using such barriers to control pedestrian movement in the country. Each of the automated “pedestrian boom barriers” costs around Rs 70,000 and the overall project cost will be Rs 7 crore. They would be put up at 75 key crossings identified by the police.
 
 
