NASHIK: Late Bindu Ramrao Deshmukh Arts and Commerce Mahila Mahavidyalay, the recipient of 'The Best College Award' by   had organized a Book Release Ceremony on May 3.

 
 Three types of paperbacks viz. the college annual, "Srujan", the manuscript, "Swayamsidha" and the special issue of journal on Dr B R Ambedkar were published by the dignitaries. The ceremony was organised on the occasion of Nashik Shikshan Prasarak Mandal's Centenary Year Celebration. The said special issue is published in the UGC Approved, International, Peer Refereed, Indexed Journal having Impact Factor.
 
 Rajendra Kalal, divisional deputy commissioner, Social Welfare and B G Wagh, retired IAS officer were the chief guests for the ceremony. Dr Sunil Kute, vice-president, Nashik Shikshan Prasarak Mandal and president of College Development Committee presided over the occasion
 
 Principal Dr Leena Pandhare introducted the programme. She explained the objectives behind the three types of paperbacks that provide fine medium through which students and researchers are motivated to write and opine.
 
 "The journal provides effectual platform for the development of writing and other dormant skills of the researchers", she said.
 
 Prof. B K Narwate and Prof.   shared their experience regarding the publication of the Journal.
 
 Kalal congratulated the board of editors of the journal and the writers of the   papers. He highlighted the principle of equality as the greatest contribution of Ambedkar to the Indian democracy. He also spoke about labour laws being the best gift of Ambedkar to masses.
 
 "Students should follow great personalities as their ideal and should educate themselves in the real sense of the word. They should acquire knowledge and adopt the necessary skills in order to be social," Kalal appealed to students.
 
 Wagh spoke about the relevance of Ambedkar's thoughts in the present era. He referred to Ambedkar as the epoch making personality and the man of the millennium because of his work and mission.
 
 Kute while congratulating the college for the timely publication of three different paperbacks, said, "We should read in order to write and write with research aptitude".
 
 Teaching and non-teaching staff, students, senior citizens and other research writers were present for the function that was organised by Prof. Tejesh Beldar, executive editor of the special issue
 
 
