CHANDIGARH: In a rare instance, the   and Haryana high court has slapped a Rs 50 lakh fine each on directors of two companies for fraudulently getting bail from the court in the ₹5,600-crore   ( ) scam case. The two companies are White Water Foods Private Limited and P D Agro Processors (P) Limited.

 The directors got bail in July 2016 from the high court after suppressing the fact that the case was already pending before a special court (designated to hear money laundering cases) in Mumbai. According to law, the directors should have approached the Mumbai high court for bail.
 
 A division bench of Justice A B Chaudhari and Justice   of the Punjab and Haryana high court observed that custodial interrogation of the directors of the two companies was crucial given that they had been summoned in a case that affected the economy of the nation. The judges dismissed a plea filed by the directors and told them to appear before the special court at Mumbai.
 
 On a complaint of the Enforcement Directorate (ED), the designated prevention of money-laundering special court asked the directors to appear before it by May 16, 2016. Instead, they approached the Punjab and Haryana high court for bail and exemption from personal appearance and did not state in their plea they had been summoned by the Mumbai court. They took the plea that they were residents of Chandigarh, Panchkula and Ludhiana and had properties at Ludhiana which had been attached in the case, thus entitling them to approach the local high court.
 
 However, the judges came to know that facts had been concealed when additional solicitor general of India Satya Pal Jain pointed out that they were summoned by a designated court in Mumbai and their petition could only be heard by the Bombay high court.
 
 Hearing both the parties, the bench observed that the petitioners had clearly suppressed the truth and played a fraud on this court.
 
 “At the outset, this Court is taken aback at the manner in which these petitions were filed in this court and from the conduct of the petitioners it clearly appears that the petitioners never wanted to approach the designated Special Court at Mumbai. To our mind, it clearly appears that the petitioners have employed a ploy to stop their interrogation and arrest for the last two years in the alleged huge scam involving an amount of Rs 5600 crores. The petitioners have clearly played subterfuge by filing these petitions in a weird manner in Punjab and Haryana High Court, which are clearly not maintainable,” observed the bench.
 
 
