Standing a little over five feet tall,   boy   definitely does not come across as a champion boxer. But behind that calm, shy exterior is the heart (and fist) of a champion. Amit won a silver in the Light Flyweight (49 kg) category at the   Commonwealth Games and in many people's opinion, was 'robbed of a gold'. "When the bout ended, I thought I had won. When I asked my coaches, they also said that they were waiting for the referee to raise my hand. But the decision went in my opponent's favour and there is nothing you can do about it," the 22-year-old says, talking about the gold medal bout.

  We meet Amit a few hours after he has landed in Delhi from   and he might be jet-lagged but is more than willing to talk about his performance in the Games. "I am quite disheartened at losing out on the gold, particularly because it was such a close fight. The way I was performing in Gold Coast and the way my form has been all through the year, I wanted to win the gold. But I will make up for it in the coming tournaments and games. Wahan se toh champion bann ke hi aayenge bas," he says.
 
  
  Amit won a silver in the Light Flyweight (49 kg) category at the Gold Coast Commonwealth Games
 
 Although Amit was born in   near  , he learnt boxing in Gurgaon at coach  's academy in Sector 39. Gurgaon isn't considered a nursery of boxers as far as Haryana is considered. It is far behind a place like Bhiwani. Amit, however, says that the boxing culture of the city is commendable. "My coach brought the three-four of us to Gurgaon to train and the city has a great atmosphere. It is a great place to practice and train because it has a culture of fitness. Then it is close to Delhi, which has several good training facilities, which also works in Gurgaon's favour." The one thing Gurgaon is known for, is its parties and nightlife. But despite spending years here, Amit says he managed to steer clear of that. "Practise ke baad time hi nahi hota tha iss sab ka. We had to train in the morning, take care of our diet, rest, and train again in the evening. Ghoomenge aur party karenge raat ko toh subah training kaise karenge?" Amit is quick to add that Gurgaon not being 'connected to its roots' is the reason the city hasn't produced as many sporting icons as other smaller Haryana towns. "Gaon ki mitti ki baat hi kuch aur hoti hai. Gaon ki mitti mein jaan hai, isliye wahan se players aate hain. Gurgaon doesn't have as many villages and places connected to the roots. It is more urban and shehron ki mitti mein zyaada dum nahi hai," explains Amit.
 
  Amit has recently joined the Indian Army as a Junior Commissioned Officer and has been associated with the   for his training over the last few years. Amit says there is a reason why the Army contributes so much to Indian sports regularly. He says, 'Out of the eight male boxers in the Indian team for the Commonwealth Games, five were from the Army. Being in the Army helps you be a team player and the thought is that your team should be strong. India ko Army hi sambhaalti hai, ussi tarah agar Army ki team achhi hogi toh sports mein bhi contribute karegi."
  
 
 -- Gunjan.Sharma@timesgroup.com
 
 
