CHANDIGARH: Does the   white paper on data protection considers the data from intelligence bureau (IB), Army CDA and other intelligence agencies as sensitive data? Does the paper talk about the laws being applied to manual collection of data or the digital data too? These are the some of the many questions raised by the experts here at   (deemed to be university) on Monday during the workshop, organized by the Cyber Security Research Centre (CSRC) in association with  , on data protection and security while discussing the white paper released by the   committee. 

 The first session saw the discussion on nine chapters of the white paper by Justice BN Srikrishna committee, which was set up to draft a data protection and privacy bill. While the question was raised that does the white paper categorizes the data from IB, Army CDA and other intelligence agencies as ‘sensitive data’, former director at IB and member of National Security Advisory Board ( ), P C   suggested that a clause should be put in place holding the data related to national security as sensitive. 
 
 Another question came up that to what extent the data protection law should be applicable outside India in cases of Indian residents’ data being processed by the entities who do not have any presence in India? On this, Lt Gen   (retd) said why should logically an Indian resident’s data go to a company which has no presence in India? This is another issue which needs to be looked at seriously, he added.
 
  Another question that was raised was that should there be a differentiated level of protection of data where an individual is identified in comparison to data where an individual may be anonymous. On this, Haldar said both should be treated equally and majority of the experts concurred on the point. 
 
 “The security breaches have serious consequences as the cyber physical systems generate a lot of user data. The cyber physical systems (CPS) are collecting huge information for data analysis and doing more and more personal sensing and the data is freely flowing across borders without being sanitized which can have very serious implications. The data protection laws are focused around cyber space but are currently ignoring the privacy and security aspect emerging due to IoT and CPS. Initiatives like Digital India, Startup India, smart city should be planned such that these take into account the peculiar development circumstances of India,” said head of CSRC Divya Bansal.
 
 
