PUNE: The clock struck seven on Wednesday evening and senior sales manager   reached the ICICI Bank’s ATM kiosk near hotel Vedant on the busy Pune-Satara road to withdraw his salary.

 As he was reversing his car to park it, one of the two men sitting on a bike near the kiosk got down and guided   to park the car properly.
 
 What a gesture in this “me and myself world”, thought Kelkar.
 
 “The road is poorly lit and the Good Samaritan said I might have banged the car against the wall. I wanted to thank him but he vanished. As I turned towards the car, the second man came to me and said some   had fallen from my pocket,” Kelkar told TOI.
 
 The second pleasant surprise within a jiffy for Kelkar? Not really.
 
 Kelkar was not tempted by the 25 currency notes lying on the ground because he knew for sure that he had only Rs100 in his pocket. They could not be his. Yet, he bent to pick up the notes thinking that the “Good Samaritan” who had helped him park the car must have dropped them.
 
 Kelkar said all he wanted to do was hand over the money to the good man. “I picked up the notes and straightened only to realize that even the second man was nowhere to be seen. I then turned to lock the car and could not. I found that the rear door was open and my two bags containing laptops and documents were not there,” he said.
 
 The feel-good feeling gone, Kelkar was back to the world of rude reality.
 
 Recreating the events of the Wednesday evening, Kelkar said, “I realized that the Good Samaritan was a thief. He had thrown the notes to divert my attention so that his accomplice could steal my belongings. I am aware of the police guidelines about not falling prey to such crimes but I had never expected that I will be one of the victims.”
 
 Too late a realization for off-guarded Kelkar. Nobody is insulated from criminals, nor was he. This may be a 20-year-old trick but people still continue to fall prey to it despite the wide publicity given to the ploys of criminals. So what really catches even the well-educated and aware citizens off the guard?
 
 Psychologist   said, “When someone tells you that you might have dropped some cash, a couple of factors come into play. Let’s say, greed is one. The other is the law of probability. You’ve probably dropped money in the past without knowing it and instantly react by picking up the fallen cash. This is more instinctive than logical. This instinct is what the crooks are cashing in on.”
 
 Police said there are two other versions of this old trick of the trade that thieves use mostly near banks or ATMs. “One is sprinkling itching powder on the identified victim, offering him water to clean up the itching spot and then running away with the valuables once the victim gets preoccupied with cleaning the mess. Second is throwing glucose biscuit powder mixed with water on the clothes of the victim and then telling him/her to clean it up. Once the victim goes in search of water or starts cleaning up, the person’s attention is diverted from the bag containing valuables,” said senior inspector Anil Patrudkar of the Mundhwa police station.
 
 The city police intercepted two gangs from   that used itching powder in 13 cases of bag-lifting. Yet, there is no respite. The cases of gangs stealing valuables after diverting attention of people by throwing currency notes on the road is continuing unabated. The Pune police have registered at least 10 cases of bag-lifting in a fortnight but have not been able to trace the culprits.
 
 Retired additional director-general of police Rajendra   said, “In a number of cases victims have told the police that somehow they got swayed by the criminals and followed their instructions without realizing that they could be getting conned. In some cases, victims voluntarily fall prey to criminals tricking them despite being aware that they are not supposed to pick up the currency notes. This could be because of greed and the human nature of getting some money for free.”
 
 Surprisingly, Sonawane said, majority of the victims of these cases were educated.
 
 So how can the police tackle these cases? Sonawane said, “The police should exchange information about criminals involved in bag-lifting cases with other police units. Their photographs should be shown to victims. The criminals, if convicted, should be prosecuted under the Habitual Offenders Act. They can also be prosecuted under the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act. The police should make good use of modern technology like CCTV for conducting investigations in such cases.”
 
 (With inputs from Ardhra Nair)
 
 
