NEW DELHI: Concerned over hate campaigns and defamatory attacks on the social media that have come to dominate political discourse during elections, eight former chief election commissioners (CECs) on Monday suggested that Election Commission tackle them at source by persuading social media companies such as Twitter and Facebook, etc, to block these “in public interest”. Alternatively, they suggested, the poll panel could engage with the political parties to convince them to practice self-regulation on hateful propaganda. 

 
 During the two-hour-long meeting with former CECs and election commissioners organised by EC to elicit their suggestions on issues of concern — growing use of money-power, use of media and social media for hateful propaganda and anomalies in electoral rolls including dead/missing voters — the former poll panel chiefs sought strict measures to curb the use of money power in polls. On social media attacks, when EC tried to explain it was not practical to track and crack down on every WhatsApp forward, the ex-CECs suggested speaking directly to social media companies to block hateful/defamatory uploads at source, or ensuring self-regulation by parties. 
 
 The ex-CECs asked EC to vigorously pursue with the government their pending financial reform proposals including putting a cap on expenditure by political party on candidates, making bribery of voters a cognisable offence and declaring source of all donations, etc.
 
 “The recent steps by EC including postponement of polling in R K Nagar and more recently in Rajarajeswari Nagar in Karnataka were appreciated. The CECs concurred that EC should use its powers under Article 324 to crack down on vitiation of poll process through bribery,” said an EC functionary.
 
 The meeting on Monday was attended by   O P Rawat and election commissioners   and Ashok Lavasa, apart from former CECs M S Gill, J M Lyngdoh, T S Krishnamurthy, B B  , S Y Quraishi, V S Sampath, H R Brahma, and   as well as former election commissioner GVG Krishnamurthy. Incidentally, CEC Rawat conceived the idea of holding such a meeting when a rumour regarding demise of T N Seshan was received by him as a Whatsapp forward in March. Concerned, he checked with the state CEO who informed him that while Seshan’s wife had passed away, he was well. Rawat subsequently visited Seshan to offer his condolences and it was the latter’s valuable feedback and suggestions on the electoral system that got the CEC to seek a meeting with all his predecessors. 
 
 Seshan, however, could not make it to the meeting due to health issues. 
 
 A demonstration regarding VVPAT system was made before the ex-CECs, who appreciated the same and stressed the need to spread awareness and educate voters about its benefits.
 
 The former CECs also batted for limiting duration of polls so as to make model code enforcement period shorter. 
 
 The consultation exercise will be taken forward. Appreciating the initiative by Rawat, former CEC M S Gill told TOI: “The Commission does a difficult job. We all met as old colleagues, raised points of concerns and generated ideas. This is good for democracy”.
 
 
 
