AHMEDABAD: Jitendra Patel, 66, also known as  ,  , was found dead from his bungalow behind   on SG Road on Sunday morning. Patel had shot self in the temple with a licensed revolver.   pointed towards depression as the reason for his extreme step.

 According to Sarkhej police, Patel’s son Shantibhai informed city police control room at 8am about death of his father. A team of policemen and forensic science experts soon reached Rajabhai Bidiwala Park at Springvalley Bungalows.
 
 P R Ramani, inspector of Sarkhej police station, said that Patel had the habit of watching television till late in the night. Thus, his wife was sleeping in another bedroom, located right across the master bedroom, in the bungalow.
 
 “According to her statement, she had gone to sleep at about 1.30am. At that time, Patel was watching TV. When she woke up at about 6.30am on Sunday morning, she did not see Patel and informed her son. When they approached the room, the TV was still on and Patel had collapsed on the double bed,” he said.
 
 Ramani added that Patel had a Webley revolver lying near his hand. He had shot himself in the temple . Police have not found any suicide note. “We are yet to question the family members about other details related to the case as they are in a state of shock,” he said, adding that they are awaiting the postmortem report to ascertain time of death.
 
 Investigators said that Patel was on medication for depression for past one year and was getting treated at a hospital in the Satellite area of the city. He had been irregular in taking the medicines. They added that apart from tobacco, the family also owns a pharmaceutical business. Police at the moment rules out any foul play.
 
 Investigators said that apart from Patel, five other family members live at the property apart from the service staff. They would be questioned to ascertain whether any of them had heard gunshot sound early in the morning. The extended family — having 11 members — owns three major businesses, said sources, which include Jaswant Bidi, Wonder Masala and Helios Pharmaceuticals.
 
