If you are looking to invest in equity linked savings schemes (ELSS) as part of your tax-planning, make sure that you do the due diligence when selecting them. “Since there is a 3-year lock-in period, you need to be extra careful when picking   schemes. It is better to opt for schemes with sizeable assets under management (AUM) from established fund houses,” says  , a Sebi-registered investment adviser and financial planner. The terrible performance of some taxsaving funds is another reason why experts advise you to exercise caution. While the ELSS category average return stands at a decent 10.51% over a 3-year holding period, several schemes from this category have performed miserably, generating returns lower than debt funds during the same period– Union Tax-Saver, for instance, gave just 3.18% over the past three years.

 
 There are also funds with a much longer lock-ins. “In case of open-ended ELSS funds, investors can withdraw their money after three years if they want. They should avoid getting into closed-ended ELSS funds, which can have a 10-year lock-ins,” says Nikhil Kothari, Director and Chief Financial Planner, Etica Wealth Advisors.
 
 While most investors look at historical returns when selecting a fund, experts say they do not present an accurate picture. Past performance should be adjusted for risk. Avoiding undue risk is an important factor when making an investment. “Always go with funds that give better risk-adjusted returns,” says Kothari. The next question is what should be the time-frame for analysing past, risk-adjusted, performance. “Though tax-savings funds’ lock-in period is usually three years, it is better to analyse their performance over longer time horizons,” says  , Founder of Plutus Capital.
 
 So, given there are several parameters to gauge risk-adjusted returns, which one should you go by? “Among the risk-adjusted parameters, going by the Information Ratio can be more rewarding,” says Kapur. The Information Ratio is an advanced version of the Sharpe Ratio. While total risk—measured as standard deviation of returns—is used in Sharpe Ratio, the tracking errormeasured as standard deviation of active returns—is used when determining the Information Ratio. Since the risk here is based on the deviation of the returns from the benchmark indices, the Information Ratio is known as to be the real test of a fund manager’s skill (see: Go by funds’ risk-adjusted returns).
 
 Consistency of returns is the second key factor that you need to consider. “Since several risk-adjusted parameters would have been swayed by funds’ very good performance in the past one year, investors should find out the number of times a scheme has outperformed its benchmark and the category average,” says Kothari. This can be done by splitting the 5-year returns into annualised returns for each of the past five years and comparing them against the benchmark and the category average. While no ELSS fund has done consistently well for the past five years, five schemes did well in four of the five years.
 
 Based on the aforementioned criterion, you shortlist the best schemes. “As a diversification tool, split your ELSS investments to 2-3 funds,” suggests Kapur. You will notice that among the two sets of schemes selected by us, based on 5-year CAGR and Information Ratio, four schemes are common across the two sets. Among them, you can avoid Aditya Birla Sun Life   Plan because it is a small scheme and will probably be merged with its bigger tax-saving fund. So, you can consider splitting your investments between the remaining three schemes—Axis Long Term Equity Fund, Aditya Birla Sun Life Tax Relief 1996 and Invesco India Tax Plan.
 
 Many investors opt for the dividend options of tax-saving funds because there’s no lock-in for dividend declarations and investors receive a part of the investment back before the mandated three year lock-in is over. However, experts suggest otherwise. “Investors should select the growth option for longterm investments to benefit from the power of compounding,” says Wagh. Tax-free status of dividends was another attraction for dividend plans, but with the introduction of dividend distribution tax on equity schemes, this is no longer the case. So it is best to invest in the growth option of ELSS funds.
 
 
