CHENNAI: Tamil actors, who recently took the political plunge, were subject of scathing attack in the   on Monday. Participating in the budget debate,   member and former minister Thoppu Venkatachalam said chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami was a Tamil as against some actors, who hailed from outside Tamil Nadu and nursing political ambitions here. 

 The budget session is the first after one of the actors launched his party and another became active in politics. The latter said he could administer a government similar to that of AIADMK founder M G Ramachandran, whose centenary birth anniversary the Palaniswami government celebrated across Tamil Nadu. 
 
 “An actor can be a tiger in movies, but he will be a mouse in politics when pitted against AIADMK,” said the former minister in a no-holds-barred attack against the two actors. Though Venkatachalam named the actors, assembly speaker P Dhanapal expunged the names after opposition leader and   working president M K Stalin said he was opposed to a person, who was not present in the house, being demeaned. “It is not the assembly tradition to debate about or discuss a person who is not present in the assembly and the speaker must take a decision on names of such persons going into assembly records,” said Stalin. 
 
 But, Venkatachalam continued his attack. “Our chief minister is a Tamil and AIADMK is a party for Tamils,” he said. “Our chief minister cannot flick a cigarette into his mouth nor does he know to direct or produce a film called Dasavatharam.” Venkatachalam said Palaniswami was not an expert in delivering dialogues in movies too, said the MLA, who was a minister between 2011 and 2016. 
 
 The MLA then spoke about tweets of an actor and made snide remarks about his party’s name. “Our chief minister does not know how to post tweets that nobody understands and thereby take a middle (Maiam) stand. But the chief minister understands the problems of the people and works to solve them,” said Venkatachalam. The MLA praised almost all senior AIADMK ministers, mentioning deputy chief minister   at the end. 
 
 
