Hyderabad: House hunting can be a harrowing experience in cities and even if one manages to spot one’s dream house, the rental deposit amount quoted by the landlord can scare the living daylights out of anyone. But fear not, this Hyderabad-based startup is here to help you not just pay the sum but also streamline a lot of tasks that arise in the process of renting a home.

 Set up in November 2015 by Hyderabad-based trio — Anusha Kurupathi Parambil, Muralidhar Nayak and Mukesh Chandra Anchuri —   offers a platform that allows tenants to pay rents/rental deposit via their credit cards. In the process, it does charge a convenience fee of 1.5% plus GST from tenants who use the platform for paying via credit cards.
 
 In case, you do not have access to credit, Paymatrix also helps in arranging the requisite loan with the help of its banking and NBFC partners and for that it charges a fee from the bank.
 
 Mukesh Chandra Anchuri, CEO and co-founder of Paymatrix points out that in the coming days, the startup is keen on introducing a variable fee for the tenants (who avail credit from the platform) depending on their repayment behaviour. Since its inception, the startup has garnered 4,000 registered tenants and landlords on its platform with more than Rs 12 crore of rent processed till date and of this Rs 12 crore, 80-85% has been on credit. “If one is regular with repayments and does it on time, we would like to reward that person by charging him less… in fact, we would like to create a CIBIL-like score that would reflect the good financial behaviour of the tenant and this score can come handy for discovery platforms that connect tenants and landlords,” he adds.
 
 Even as Paymatrix toys with various ideas, it has already eased certain tasks for tenants and landlords. Chandra says one of the innovative services provided by the startup is that it helps a landlord choose the tenant. “A landlord takes into account various aspects before deciding if he wants to rent out his or her space to a particular individual. So here we help the landlord take this decision by providing a profile of the tenant. We create a profile using psychometry that helps understand various attributes of one’s personality without asking any intrusive questions and generate a report. A landlord can take cognisance of this report to decide on the deal,” he explains.
 
 Apart from this, the startup also offers templates of rental agreements on its platform, where both the parties can enter details and get rental agreements at their doorstep. In fact, in a month’s time, the startup is about to a launch service where the parties can get the digital or e-rental agreement by e-signing the document.
 
 Apart from catering to individual landlords and tenants, the startup has also started operations in the B2B space, wherein it helps co-working spaces manage inmates.
 
 “We provide the same set of offerings for businesses such as hotels or coworking spaces. We help them profile their potential tenants, get agreements done digitally, aggregate their rental collection from the platform and help them subscribe to insurance. We started this a year back,” he says, adding that they have been working with six organisations.
 
 Interestingly, it has been offering its services to T-Hub and Centre for Innovation and Entrepreneurship (CIE) incubator on the IIIT-H campus, the two places where the startup has shaped up in the last two years.
 
 However, this year, the startup has plans to scale up its business and foray into Singapore and UAE and also deepen its presence in the country. “We want to touch a user base of 1 lakh in the next 16-18 months and plan to raise $1 million in the next few months,” Anchuri says adding that the startup also has plans to ramp up its workforce from the current seven team members to 100 by the 2018.
 
 GRAPH
 
 Paymatrix was founded in November 2015 by Anusha Kurupathi Parambil, Muralidhar Nayak and Mukesh Chandra Anchuri
 
 Team of seven people with plans to take it to 100 by 2018
 
 Has 4000 users on its platform and is looking at a 1-lakh user base in next 16-18 months
 
 Invested 1.2 crore so far
 
 Planning to raise $1 million
 
 The advantage of paying rent via credit card is that every payment on the credit card fetches the tenant rewards and discounts.
 
 Paymatrix says it helps in bring cash payments onto a digital platform thus promoting a cashless economy
 
 “The biggest challenge in our business has been dealing with landlords. In the Indian context, landlords are happy dealing with cash and evading tax. They do not like to disclose the income. Our challenge has been convincing the landlord to adopt a formal channel like ours. However, demonetisation came as a big boon for us… it is after demonetisation that many landlords found getting paid in cash to be an issue and opened up to the concept of Paymatrix,” Mukesh Chandra Anchuri, CEO and co-founder, Paymatrix 
 
 
