The ‘Save   movement’ began at a local-level much before it transformed into a broad, green campaign 30 years ago.  , for instance, had the famous   movement and decades later the inhabitants living along the   took up the issue of pollution.

 Both campaigns can be seen as a triumph of the green movement in the state. The Silent Valley agitation of the 1970s later served as a model for several movements against big dam projects that led to the destruction of million-year-old ecosystems along the Western Ghats.
 
 Today, the need of the hour is to completely ban mining within the core forest area of Western Ghats and the Ecologically Sensitive Zones- 1 (ESZ-1) demarcated in the Western Ghats Expert Ecology Panel (WGEEP) report.
 
  district tops the list of taluks in Kerala which has the maximum number of areas under ESZ-1 category as per the WGEEPreport. We had allowed sustainable development in ESZ-2 and ESZ-3, even in Idukki.
 
 But people are not ready for a debate on this issue. Political parties, on the Right and the Left have dumped the report and are under the sway of local mafia groups.
 
 Ultimately, ordinary people are going to suffer. By saving the buffer zones along the core forest area, we are protecting the originating point of rivers and basic natural resources like water, rare flora and fauna.
 
 The   report was dishonest to the core as it reduced the quantum of core eco-fragile areas. It did not even consider the grading of such regions. The result is that neither the ecologists nor the people living there are ready to accept the report.
 
 The only solution is to constitute a people’s committee to decide on the local rights rather than giving powers to corrupt administrative bodies. We should not follow the Chinese model of unbridled growth at any cost or the high consumption pattern of USA.
 
 We should be looking at sustainable European models, say for instance the Swiss model, where cantons (federal states) were given the right to decide what is good for them and it paved for a green revolution. In the late 19th century, Switzerland had just 4% green cover which has now increased to 60%, despite it being a capitalist country. In this era of climate change, ecology should be given utmost importance. The Western Ghat mountain ranges sustain 40% of the riverine water resources in the country. If we destroy it then our civilization would be at peril.
 
 
 (As told to Viju B)
 
 
