TIRUNELVELI: Thousands of   cadre took part in the one-day fast observed by the ruling party demanding immediate formation of the Cauvery Management Board (CMB). 

 A lesser crowd was present at Nehru Open Auditorium in  , in Tirunelveli, as the fast began led by Adi Dravida welfare minister V M Rajalakshmi, AIADMK organising secretary P H   and Radhapuram MLA I S Inbadurai.
 
 Though the protest began around 8.30 am, the rural people continued reaching the venue till afternoon while a section of the crowd that had come during the earlier part of the day started leaving the place. Banners put up by the party occupied more stretch of the road than the crowd at the venue. With mercury rising and people constantly dehydrating, petty eateries and juice bars enjoyed a brisk business
 
 Minister for information and publicity Kadambur C Raju led the fast in the company of thousands of cadre near the VVD Signal in Tuticorin. Films displaying party founder and former chief minister MGR were screened on giant screens.
 
 Tamil development minister K Pandiarajan who led the fast in Nagercoil, Kanyakumari district, said that the Centre failed to understand the sentiments of state and was trying to buy three more months from the Supreme Court in view of the assembly elections in Karnataka where the BJP was trying to come to power.
 
 Condemning the BJP led NDA government for not forming CMB, DMK cadres, Congress, Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, Indian Union Muslim League, Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam, Communist Party of India, Communist Party of India (Marxist) and Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi staged protests near the Palayamkottai Bus Stand, Veeravanallur and Kalakkad.
 
 Road blockade organized by the CPI (M) at Sankarankovil and a few opposition parties at Kadayanallur affected traffic on roads connecting Tenkasi. The Tirunelveli district police arrested around 150 persons including women and farmers who took part in the protest. They were all released later that day. Various trade unions have decided to block roads and to picket central government establishments during the opposition’s one-day bandh on Thursday.
 
 
