PUNE: With acute water scarcity in certain parts of Andhra Pradesh affecting agriculture, numerous Andhra natives have migrated to   in Pune to work in the booming hostel sector. In fact, almost all the hostels in the Mukainagar area are run by Telugus who came to the city to make a decent living.

 While none of the hostel owners or managers wanted to go on record or be identified by name, they did reveal how water scarcity had driven them hundreds of miles away from home. They also explained how the hostel business is run in the city.
 
 One Telugu farmer, who is now running a hostel in Mukainagar, said, “I came to Pune from Andhra Pradesh about a year ago and have been running this facility since then. We have farms in Andhra, but due to water shortage we cannot cultivate the land to its full potential.”
 
 She said, like her own family, many others from the drought-hit region have migrated to Pune and are now involved in the lucrative hostel business. “Many people here are Andhra natives like us. The hostel buildings belong to locals from Hinjewadi... we simply lease the buildings and run them as hostels. There are a few Andhra natives who have purchased the buildings,” she said.
 
 She further added that like any other business, the hostel business too has its ups and downs. “There are times when some apartments lie vacant. However, thanks to the number of young people coming to work in the IT firms in Hinjewadi, the hostel is never completely vacant,” she said.
 
 Another Andhra native said, “I have been in Pune for a few years now, but started this hostel facility only a couple of months ago. The building belongs to my sister and I have taken it on rent, for Rs 2 lakh per month, to run it as a hostel. My uncle, who does not reside in Pune, has also constructed a building and is offering accommodation to IT professionals.”
 
 Many owners of hostels in the area said the Andhra natives dominate the hostel industry in Hinjewadi and even other IT hubs like  . “Many people, who came from Andhra, have set up hostels by taking buildings on rent. The industry offers lucrative returns,” a hostel owner stated.
 
 They said those running the hostel have complete rights over the leased property. They pay a monthly rent to the property owner.
 
 
