HUBBALLI: May 12 is the polling day for the assembly elections across the state, but people can experience voting sooner by visiting the   here.

 The Hubballi taluk administration is preparing for a booth awareness campaign on its premises. It is setting up a demo poll booth at the entrance of the Mini Vidhana Soudha and those entering it will have to first cast their vote by pressing a button and then check the   to confirm their vote.
 
 This unique demonstration will be set up with an intention to create awareness among voters of   constituency and also among those who visit the mini Vidhan Soudha.
 
 Tahsildar and assistant returning officer for Hubballi-Dharwad East Constituency Shashidhar Madyal is the brains behind this initiative. “Everyday 1,000 to 1,200 people visit the Mini vidhana Soudha for various works. Keeping this in mind, we planned to create a demonstration centre to create awareness about EVM and VVPAT (Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail) machine,” he said.
 
 “At the demo center, a special team consisting officials from various departments will work on the basis of shifts. Each team will have five members and they will request visitors to cast their vote before going for their work. They woill also maintain a register of the visitors. To keep a close watch on everything CCTVs will be installed,” he added.
 
 “We have planned to launch the demo polling booth on April 7 or 8 by the DC and the ZP CEO. The demo polling center will be kept open till the end of this month,” he added.
 
 Ramachandra Hosamani, executive officer, Hubballi taluk panchayat, said the move will help voters in the city as well as those from villages who visit the Mini Vidhana Soudha
 
 Shekhar G D, probationary assistant commissioner and nodal officer for EVM and VVPAT, said special training was conducted for officials by involving engineers and experts from BEL. Along with sector officials, Assembly Level Master Trainers (ALMT) and others were trained in a special session on the functioning of EVM and VVPAT machine, he said.
 
 
