Mention   and her next film with him,   (CCV),   breaks into a little jig and flashes us her thousand-watt smile. “Like I’ve said before, another film with   sir is a blessing. I’m such a huge fan of his, and I consider myself blessed. If I get a chance, I will do all his films,” says Aditi, who was part of his   as well. The actress was in town recently to launch a watch brand’s latest collection, and we caught up with her on the sidelines. Excerpts from the chat…

  
 The love that I got for KV was overwhelming. Leela was really special; it was particularly special for me because it was my dream to work in a love story directed by Mani sir. The critics were generous and appreciative and the Tamil audience — they are real stars. The kind of love they shower on actors, the way they look out for them, it’s really kind of them to do so. And I am very grateful for it. They still send me the most amazing messages and creatives on social media about how much they love Leela. 
 
 Everyone’s been asking when I’m going to sign my next Tamil film. The love has been unprecedented, far beyond what I imagined. But there were no amazing Tamil film offers post KV. I was also busy shooting   and Bhoomi, and both were demanding films that needed my complete attention. I was secretly hoping I could do Mani sir’s next. In fact, if I had half a chance, I would do all his films! And now, it’s an amazing feeling to be back in Kollywood, and in a Mani sir film. 
 
 
 In the last six-seven years that I have been active in the industry, I have come to believe that both the script and the director with whom I work are very important for me to sign a film. The kind of films that I do largely depends on the director as well. If I get to work with filmmakers whom I admire, I believe that I will be able to deliver better. I don’t want language or region to come in the way. I value these kinds of experiences — of acting in films irrespective of languages. The kind of knowledge I gain from being a pan-Indian actor who can work with the best in the field can’t be put in words.
 
 
 Mani sir always says we will find the character together. It unfolds as we work and that’s the magic that Mani sir creates. It’s the most exciting journey, but a little scary, too. I’m as nervous as I’m excited. Also, there’s amazing energy on the set because there are so many talents! And Mani sir always gets amazing actors on board. With him, you have to be like sponge, absorbing all the lessons you can.
 
 
 Yes, some of them do impact me — Leela resonated with me, so did Mehrunisa. I loved the fact that for them, their love makes them fearless and strong. I loved playing them and I think they also influenced me in a way that I’m now pretty convinced that you don’t have to be a fighter to be successful and to be happy. You can be generous, loving, kind and sensitive, and that can be your biggest strength. And, in fact, that’s true courage.
 
 
 I’m very clear about my priorities — quality and credibility is important to me, a film and a character that lives beyond my years is important to me, people’s love is important to me. I’m a director’s actor and I surrender myself to the vision and the process. I think nothing else matters then. It’s archaic to think about films as a solo lead or multi-starrer. Labels are limiting, and I don’t like them. I like to mix it up, so I do both. More importantly, I choose to be fearless — I try and choose a film for the right reasons. If   and Jennifer Lawrence and so many others can make strong choices so fearlessly, then so can I. Insecurity is a total waste of energy. I’d rather put all my energy into what I love to do and enjoy it — I count my blessings every day. If we girls don’t stand up for change, nothing is going to change in the way we are perceived. As far as Chekka Chivantha Vaanam is concerned, it has some supremely talented actors, and they bounce off energy on the set. I believe that many actors in a movie make it better. I am sure it will be challenging to match up to the rest of them, but I’m always up for a challenge.
 
 
