NEW DELHI: The   on Monday imposed an exemplary fine of Rs 75 lakh on a Chennai-based real estate firm for backtracking from its promise to purchase Unitech’s two tracts of land for Rs 400 crore.

 Taking strong exception to the U-turn by Om Shakthi Agency (Madras) Pvt Ltd, a bench of Chief Justice Dipak Misra and Justices A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud even threatened that it would send its officials to jail for wasting the court’s time.
 
 “No one had invited you to buy the property. You could have said that you did not want to buy the property but you assured us to pay Rs 400 crore. You have wasted the court’s time. They (  promoters) are already in jail and if you want to give them company, we do not have problem,” the bench said.
 
 The court, however, let off the officials and directed them to deposit Rs 75 lakh as cost.
 
 Senior advocate  , appearing for Unitech, told the bench that two reputed companies had agreed to buy parcels of land in Bengluru and it would be able to raise Rs 144 crore out of the deal. The court thereafter allowed it to sell the assets but directed that the purchasers deposit the money in the Supreme Court registry.
 
 The bench said it would consider Unitech promoter Sanjay Chandra’s plea for parole only after the amount was deposited in the court. Chandra has been behind bars for the last one year for not handing over possession of the flats to home-buyers.
 
 Sanjay Chandra and his brother   were arrested by the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of the Delhi Police in April for not handing over possession of flats to buyers despite money being paid to the company. The lower court,   and Supreme Court have refused to grant them bail. The SC had earlier directed the company to first deposit Rs 750 crore in the court to protect the interest of home-buyers.
 
 The court had earlier directed that an online portal be created where the investors could post their documents and claims for getting their money back. The need for a website arose as there are around 17,000 investors in Unitech’s 74 projects and it was very difficult to collect details of all the home-buyers .
 
 Chandra and his brother have been booked under Sections 406, 409 (breach of trust), 420 (cheating) and 120 (b) (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.
 
 The court had allowed Chandra to hold talks with prospective buyers of the company’s assets within the jail premises to raise money to be deposited in the court for the homebuyers.
 
