Tamil cinema is known for coming up with catchy titles. While taking inspiration from popular lyrics for titles was the trend till sometime ago, it seems filmmakers are now smitten by numbers. Here’s a look at films that have numerical titles...

 
 
 This science fiction, a sequel to Enthiran, is being directed by Shankar and has an ensemble cast. Rajinikanth, Akshay Kumar and Amy Jackson are part of this magnum opus and the movie has been in the making for more than three years. While there has been no official clarification on why the makers titled the film 2.0, several movie buffs have come up with their explanations for the same. While some argue that 2.0 has a direct reference to the ‘antagonist Chitti’ in Enthiran, who is an upgraded and wicked version of the ‘protagonist Chitti’, others say that 2.0 is just a stylish name that has a global appeal.
 
 
 
 Director Anita Udeep, who made her directorial debut with Kulir 100°, is now busy with her second movie, which has been titled 90 ml. A women-centric film, it has Oviya in an important role. The director had earlier said that the movie is about a group of five women and their desires, showcasing the wants of contemporary women. Targetted at youngsters, especially software engineers, the movie has music by Simbu.
 
 
 
 Musician-turned-actor GV Prakash has been on a signing spree. One of his upcoming films, a romantic entertainer directed by Venkat Pakkar, a former assistant of Shankar, has been titled 4G. There has been much debate on the title, with some suggesting that it’s about the fourth generation telecom technology and others saying that it could be a story about four girls in the film, or that there would be four heroines for GV Prakash. However, a little birdie tells us that the film is a fourth generation love story! 
 
 
 
 Vijay Sethupathi and Trisha Krishnan will be playing the lead in this romantic entertainer, directed by C Prem Kumar, who handled the cinematography for Naduvula Konjam Pakkatha Kaanom. Vijay Sethupathi plays a travel photographer in the movie. It is said that ‘96’ was chosen as the title to denote the year 1996. The director had revealed that the film revolves around characters who belong to the 1996 batch in school, and the film will showcase Vijay Sethupathi’s life at the ages of 16, 36 and 96.
 
 
 
 Atharvaa is donning the khaki for the first time in director Sam Anton’s action thriller. The movie, which has Hansika as the heroine, has been titled 100, and it revolves around a police control room, which reveals the reason behind the choice of the title.
 
 
 
 Debutant director TR Bala is coming up with a movie titled 46 — it’s all about racing. The film has Oscar-winning Resul Pookutty on board as its sound designer. The movie is about a bunch of youngsters who indulge in illegal bike racing. The film stars Sachin Mani and Meenakshi in lead roles. Music director and producer of the movie, Nidheesh Gopalan, says, “The number 46 is the vector logo of Valentino Rossi, the famous Italian racer. He is very popular in Chennai — in fact, most bikers have his number stuck on their bikes. And though we haven’t really been able to put a finger on it, we found that most bikers know the relevance of the number 46 and identify with it. And since the film is about illegal racing and bikers in general, we thought the most apt title for the film is 46.”
 
 
 
 Vijay Kaviraj, an associate of veteran director SA Chandrasekhar, is directing Bharath in a movie titled 8. Tipped as a romantic comedy, the movie has Soori and model-turned-actress Pooja Jhaveri playing prominent roles. It is said that the director opted for 8 as the title since the movie is based on the eight different stages in the protagonist’s life. 
 
