NOIDA: At a time when All India RWAs under the banner of Confederation of All Residents Welfare Associations (CARWA) held a meeting on Wednesday in the city to reiterate its demand for legal representation in authority/municipal board of their respective states,   comes with a response that no elected representatives (MLA/MP) nor a nominated member of the society (RWAs/residents) is allowed to sit in any board / internal meetings of the authority as there’s no provision for the same in authority board. The authority’s response came in reply to an   (a copy of which is with TOI) filed by advocate Ranjan  , a local citizen asking whether public representative or nominated member can participate in authority meeting held to decide policies for the city.

 Tomar filed the said RTI (number 21219) on Dec 28, 2017 to which authority replied on Jan 29, 2018 and received by Tomar on Thursday (Feb 8).
 
 “The authority’s response to my RTI (number 21219) clearly states that Noida citizens, be it elected representatives (MP/MLAs) nor a nominated member of the society (RWAs/residents), have any right to sit in meetings of Noida Authority wherein the future of Noida is discussed,” said Tomar who adds that there are 81 villages in and around Noida, apart from its many residential sectors. “How can there be no public representatives, legislators, MPs’ participation in authority board meeting?" questions Tomar.
 
 According to Tomar, “the said rule makes authority work like a private limited company while deciding the future master plans of the city and how to administer it. There is no local body, no elected representatives – MLA, MP from G B Nagar in its planning or development process. In plain terms this is undemocratic,” said Tomar who has filed earlier RTIs on important issues concerning residents welfare.
 
 In an earlier RTI response to Tomar, authority had stated that Noida does not have any residential facility for 'industrial workers' working in the city or that number of industrial sectors in Noida do not exceed the number of residential sectors. 
 
 While Tomar maintained that if such industrial authority type of system of Noida were to be promoted in the rest of the country, then it would be fatal for democracy, residents across the city echo Tomar’s views and demanded public representation in authority especially when major decisions are to be taken. “These public representatives can act as observers at such meetings,” said Col (rtd) P  , resident of the city.
 
 “A few public representatives in authority meets will provide the much needed inputs from the ground which otherwise goes unnoticed or overlooked and adds to better planning and development of the city,” said   RWA general secretary Stellar Greens sector 44.
 
