BENGALURU: Every evening, N Kesavelu, a painter in his 50s, makes his way to the shelter for destitutes in Murphy Town, east Bengaluru. He is served a meal, has a bed for himself and can use a bathroom which he describes as ‘very clean’. The very fact that he is aware of the location of the shelter and uses it regularly, makes Kesavelu one of the more fortunate among the city’s homeless people.

 The Supreme Court had, in 2010, directed all state governments to set up shelters for the homeless in towns with a population of 1 lakh and more. In Bengaluru, the responsibility lies with the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahangara Palike (BBMP), something it seems to have forgotten.
 
 With a population of over 1 crore, Bengaluru should ideally have at least 100 shelters, but less than 10% of these are in place. Run by non-governmental organizations (NGOs) but funded by the Palike, the number of shelters in the city has fallen by more than 50% — from 13 to six in the past five years.
 
 A 2010 survey conducted by an NGO put the number of homeless at approximately 17,000, while the BBMP said it was only 2,800.
 
 “The Palike was not paying for maintenance of the shelters, because of which they were forced to close down. Of the six remaining shelters, only two, one on Goodshed Road and another in Murphy Town, are running properly,” said Narasimhappa TV, a researcher and activist.
 
 While the Murphy Town shelter gets 40 people every day, the one on Goodshed Road sees 20-25 people walk in. At the other extreme is the shelter at   which gets one or two people every day, Narasimhappa added.
 
 Manjunath, who manages the Murphy Town shelter on behalf of Sparsha Trust, said they are yet to receive payment for 10 months from the corporation. “We are supposed to get Rs 60,000 per month. The head office has to first release funds to the zonal office; this is what seems to be causing the delay,” he said.
 
 Narasimhappa said they have been asking the BBMP to set up night shelters in Shivajinagar, City Market and near Cantonment railway station, but to no avail.
 
 “There are hundreds of people who sleep on pavements and railway platforms and they could use these shelters. Since the BBMP has not publicised them, people don’t even know they exist. Further, very few women make use of the shelters, as only one or two have separate accommodation for them,” said Narasimhappa.
 
 While BBMP has set aside Rs 2 crore for construction and maintenance of night shelters in its budget, he says the fund is rarely utilized. 
 
 Lakshmi Devi, deputy commissioner, welfare, BBMP, said East, Mahadevapura, Bommanahalli and Dasarahalli zones have one shelter each, while the West zone has two. However, there are no shelters in Yelahanka, South and Rajarajeshwari Nagar zones. 
 
 More shelters by June
 
 At a meeting two weeks ago, the BBMP standing committee on social justice and welfare discussed the necessity of increasing the number of night shelters within Palike limits. 
 
 “A lot of people are sleeping on the roads, and there is a need for more shelters. As per norms, there should be one night shelter for three wards. We are hoping to build a shelter in every constituency by June. We have sent letters to the joint commissioners and deputy commissioners, asking them to identify land, where these can be set up,” said  , chairperson of the committee.
 
 
