Nagpur: Union minister and city MP Nitin Gadkari has organized a meeting with Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) and Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) officials for discussing issues related to two shopping malls of N Kumar Projects and Infrastructure Pvt Ltd that are in controversy for various reasons. Agenda for the meeting also includes ensuring safety of Ambazari lake embankment. The meeting will be held at 5.30pm on Saturday at Gadkari’s home in Gokulpeth. The officials of NIT, NMC, MahaMetro, Water Resources Department have been asked to attend. Officials of NMC and NIT are unaware of what exactly Gadkari wants to discuss about N Kumar Projects’ malls.  TOI had exposed various violations in one of two projects— Poonam Mall at Alankar square. The revised building plan of the mall is pending with the civic agency. Also, developer’s application seeking fire compliance is also pending with the NMC fire and emergency services department. The dispute related to property tax of the mall is pending with Laxmi Nagar zone. NIT had issued notice for building violations in the mall. The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board had issued notice for violations related to environment clearance, consent to establish, operate etc. There are various issues related to Poonam Mall situated at Wardhaman Nagar. The meeting’s agenda include safety of Ambazari lake’s embankment. MahaMetro had started works of Metro Rail corridor and station at the embankment without prior permission and safety precautions. NMC had requested WRD to prepare detailed project report of works to be executed on the embankment. Hearing a PIL filed by activist Shahid Sharif, the High Court had directed various departments to ensure safety of the British-era embankment. Gadkari will also discuss NOC to a petrol pump. Other issues include construction of school by railways on land meant for proposed road connecting Wanjari Nagar overhead water tank road with Ajni and also proposed road between Wardha road and Ajni. He is likely to review projects being constructed by National Highways Authority of India in and around the city.