For nearly two years, I have been trying for a complete  , just to break away from the compulsion of being online 24/7, if not to give my eyes, which move from one screen to another all day, some much-needed rest. But somehow, I found myself making excuses every time — I have to co-ordinate a story in the weekend, am travelling, a friend is visiting and what not. At the end, I convinced myself that a journalist actually needs to be constantly plugged in; it's my job after all, not an addiction. And then one day, the unthinkable happened. My phone broke. Phones have broken before too but I would beg, borrow or steal something temporary and frantically download WhatsApp, Facebook and all other ‘essentials’ until I got a new phone.

 But not this time. For some reason I didn't try. Neither did I buy a new phone instantly. Instead, I borrowed a `800 basic phone from a friend and for the next 10 days, lived with it. To say that those 10 days were peaceful would be an understatement. Rather, I haven’t experienced a more peaceful phase in two plus years, in which the smartphone had been dominating my life, demanding round the clock attention — the first thing to check on waking up, while eating, while at work, when with a friend, even while watching TV (which seemed too boring compared with the Internet).
 
 The first thing I noticed was that suddenly, there was a lot more time at hand. When I looked around my apartment the first morning, I noticed a lot of things I hadn’t before and went on a cleaning spree. While on the streets and in the metro, I was back to observing people, a hobby I had abandoned long back. Above all, my eyes and brain got the break they deserved. I had no clue what was happening in the WhatsApp groups I was part of, or on news websites. What would be the latest trending story? How would people be reacting to it? There was no means of googling who Elisha Grey is, or what exactly is happening in Syria. My smartphone was also my lifeline, with my to-do lists, work reminders and meditation app all finding a place on the home screen.
 
 Strangely, I didn’t miss any of them. The basic phone was not just loud and clear, but handy and more reliable than any smartphone when it came to battery power. I had none of the contact numbers saved in it, and rusted areas of the brain slowly re-activated to help me recognise people by their voices and phone numbers. 
 
 It wasn’t easy, my work suffered and I found it increasingly difficult to explain to contacts that I didn’t have WhatsApp and could they mail me please? I couldn’t send a question to five contacts and get a guaranteed two replies like we usually do for articles. I had to co-ordinate a company-related event in between, for which I had to fix dates and time with three different people, none of which I could do without WhatsApp and email on the go, I realised. I could do the basics like paying bills from the office computer, but once I left office, there was a nagging fear I might be missing something vital.
 
 And then there were times when I genuinely missed my faithful companion. The evening sky took on a never before set of colours one day and I fished out my phone on an instinct only to remember that its grainy 0.3 megapixel camera couldn’t do justice to the breath-taking sight. I missed friends and family with whom I communicated only through WhatsApp, especially those in different time zones.
 The denouement came when I visited a friend who lives an hour away, only to find that she was caught up in an emergency. The earlier ‘smart’ me would have ordered food online, entertained myself by reading online, and booked an Uber for myself the next morning. But I couldn’t do any of these and felt as helpless as a newborn.
 
 And slowly I realised that a life without a smartphone, which I had been seriously contemplating for the past one week, might not really be the heaven I was expecting it to be. The next day I ordered my new phone, which took its own sweet time to arrive, during which time I enjoyed my last few moments of peace.
 
 I’m back to the Internet and reality now, but it’s not the same as before. I do use my phone all the time but I sure can live without it. First of all, you realise that it’s you who needs the Internet, not the other way round. Yes, one needs updated news, but mostly, nothing new happens 
 . The Internet is a wonderful world full of possibilities for sure, but it comes a poor second to the real one, which should get its due.
 
