JALANDHAR: For the first time,   memorial figured in Guru Ravidas Jayanti celebrations in Punjab, in which the largest number of Adi-Dharmi/Ravidassia community followers assemble. This comes a month after caste clashes in Maharashtra in the beginning of this month, when Dalit groups observed the 200th anniversary of the Bhima Koregaon battle. Incidentally, this has not been part of the dalit political and social discourse in Punjab. 

 A hoarding titled, ‘Glorious history of dalits’, with a picture of the Bhima Koregaon memorial alongwith those of Guru Ravidass and Dr B R Ambedkar has been put up at Buta Mandi. The hoarding also gives a description of the battle. A shobha yatra was taken out in the area on Tuesday and thousands of people gathered for anniversary celebrations on Wednesday. 
 
 The battle description recounts how  , who were considered members of the lowest caste in the eyes of  , fought on the side of the British and defeated the Peshwa’s army, even though their strength was merely 500 while the Peshwa’s army comprised 28,000 soldiers.
 
 “The credit of this great victory goes to Mahar soldiers and dalits of the entire country are proud of them”, the hoarding reads, while mentioning Dr Ambedkar’s visit to the memorial on January 1, 1927.
 
 But no specific dalit organisation has been named on the hoarding, which simply mentions Samooh Dalit Samaj. Different dalit activists said the Bhima Koregaon battle was never mentioned during Guru   celebrations in the past. “I learnt about the Bhima Koregaon battle and participation of Mahars in it for the first time,” said  , who visited the area to participate in the fair. 
 
 “Bhima Koregaon was never part of the political discourse among dalits, even in dalit intellectual and writers’ circles. It is the result of the recent controversy and clashes that people of Punjab and rest of North India have come to know about it. The hoarding is the result of this awareness,” said noted dalit writer Lahori Ram Balley, who lives in the area and has authored several books.
 
 “Clashes that took place this year has made community members in Punjab aware of the Bhima Koregaon battle and they have started identifying with the issue,” said   ( ) president  , who led a protest in Phagwara after clashes in Maharashtra.
 
 Senior SAD leader Satpal Mall, who contested from   assembly constituency and has an office in Buta Mandi, confirmed that Bhima Koregaon never figured during Guru Ravidass Jayanti or other occasions. “We don’t know who put up this hoarding,” he said.
 
 
