A decade after making her debut with Kalyan Ram’s   in 2007, 
  will be seen opposite the actor in debutant director Upendra’s upcoming film 
 . The actress says it was a different experience to share screen space with Kalyan this time around and that it was a joyous reunion of sorts. “I’m working with him after 10 years. He was my first co-actor, so the excitement level to do this film was high from day one. I felt as if I met my long time friend,” she says adding, “It’s been a decade and we both have grown as actors and human beings. It was not only a different experience working with him, but even better than the first time around. I was far more comfortable this time around.”

 
 
 It is also after a while that the   actress has signed a project with a debutant director. “The reasons why I gave my nod to this film were its script and director  , who’s also a writer. I’ve seen his work in the past and he has also worked with Srinu Vaitla garu. So, considering everything, it was only natural to say yes,” she avers.
 
 
 In the trailer of MLA, if Kajal is seen looking demure in a chiffon saree in one cut, then she’s packing a punch in a powersuit in another. Curious, when we prod her about her character, she informs, “My character Indu is a modern NRI girl who comes back to India. She’s headstrong and tries to projects herself to be a tough cookie, but actually she’s a nice and compassionate soul. And Kalyan’s character will be seen chasing and pataoing me in the film.” 
 If one considers the tile of the film and its trailer, MLA comes across as a political drama. But Kajal stresses that it’s actually a commercial family entertainer. “It’s not a political drama as everyone is making it out to be. In fact, it’s a commercial family entertainer, which starts with a love story. We don’t talk about politics in the film. It’s just towards the end that Kalyan’s character gets into politics due to certain circumstances in the plot. So, it’s an entertainer that puts across a strong message to the society,” she signs off. 
 
 
 
 
 
