BHUBANESWAR: In a bid to prevent the unfair practice of ‘cash for votes’ in the run-up to February 24  , the Bargarh district police on Thursday launched a novel initiative, whereby anyone providing information about bribes being paid would get Rs 2,000 cash reward. The police also mobilized a vehicle with public address system to promote a campaign—‘yes to vote, no to note’.

 “We will not only give cash reward of Rs 2,000, but also an appreciation letter to those, who provide us concrete and fool-proof information about bribes being given by political agents to influence voters. We want to sensitise people to elect their right candidate without accepting bribe or coercion,” superintendent of police (Bargarh district) Jai Narayan Pankaj told TOI.
 
 Police said the awareness vehicle will touch all villages under the 282 booths in 59 gram panchayats of   assembly constituency. “We will try to connect all the 2.21 lakh voters and distribute pamphlets to them. We have also prepared a   song to sensitise voters about their roles and responsibilities,” said Pankaj, who was posted in the district on February 10 after the election commission of India was approached by a   ( ) delegation, accusing former SP   and other district officials of working as political agents of ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) in poll-bound Bijepur.
 
 The awareness drive, first of its kind by police, came a day after the police seized Rs 3.2 lakh cash from two vehicles in Gaisilat area of Bijepur on Wednesday. “We seized the cash on suspicion of being used for political purpose. As per guidelines of the election commission of India, we submitted a report to a three-member committee, comprising district officials, to probe the matter. If the committee finds evidence that the money was being transported for political purpose and lodged complaint with us, we will initiate legal action,” another police officer said.
 
 To ensure smooth by-election, the police headquarters asked the Bargarh police to crack the whip on anti-socials and illicit liquor vendors. Police stations have also been asked to intensify patrolling and checking of vehicles across Bijepur.
 
