FATEHGARH SAHIB: The district police on Saturday claimed to have busted a gang of three criminals involved in ‘supari killings’ and recovered five loaded weapons and a motorbike bearing a  . The gang members already have multiple cases registered against them related to murder and loots.

 SSP   said those arrested had been identified as Rahul alias Rola, Sajjan and Varinder Kumar alias Gora. Both Sajjan and Rahul are brothers and resident of Amritsar while Varinder is resident of Jalandhar. They came in contact with each inside a jail and formed a gang to carry out ‘supari killings’ and had even managed to get two contracts.
 
 The cops have so far recovered two 32 bore pistols, two country made 32 and 315 bore guns and a 32 bore revolver along with 48 cartridges, 4 magazines and a bullet motorcycle from their possession.
 
 The SSP said the gang had plotted two   and were also planning to free one of their accomplices, who was presently lodged at the Amritsar jail. She said the gang members had strategised to attack the police party and free the accused, while he was to be taken out of the jail for a court hearing at  .
 
 The SSP said the cops had received specific information about the three criminals after they were spotted in the district. A special team constituted under the assistant superintendent of police Ravjot Grewal nabbed the accused from near a check post after they were asked to halt their bike. She said the accused even tried to fire at the cops but were overpowered.
 
 Meena said during preliminary interrogation, it has emerged that the gang operated in Majha region of the state. While Rahul has nine FIRs registered against him related to murders, loots, snatchings and extortion in different districts of the state, Sajjan is facing similar charges in 12 different cases while Varinder Kumar has five cases registered against him of similar nature. They have even been declared proclaimed offenders in nine cases and even jumped bail in one of the cases.
 
 The SSP said it also came to light that earlier they used to supply weapons to criminals and gangsters in Punjab by procuring these from Uttar Pradesh, but recently they started taking "suparis" for murders. They wanted to kill two persons (identity not disclosed due to security reasons) for whom they had accepted the 'supari' and the third one for personal enmity.
 
 "They had also plotted to free a hardcore gangster lodged at Amritsar jail when he was to be taken for court hearing”, the SSP said adding that “We have updated the police chiefs of other districts where they were planning to strike.” 
 
