NEW DELHI: After the loss in the first Test to South Africa, the question everyone seems to be asking is: What changes will the Indian team management make - in its arsenal and strategy - to get back into the three-Test series.

 The chorus is getting louder to bring back  's deputy   and opener KL Rahul in the playing XI for second Test.
 
 "You have to bring Rahane and Rahul back in the playing XI for the next Test. It also depends on whether the team opts for five or six batsmen, but after this Test match, it is certain that India need to strengthen their batting," former India wicketkeeper and chief of selectors,  , told TOI.
 
 Wasn't the Cape Town Test India's best chance to win in the series? "Of course, it was. There couldn't have been a better way to win a Test after the bowlers did a phenomenal job to bring India back into the game. Another partnership of 50 runs would have sealed the game in India's favour," More said, while raising a question mark over  's technique against short-pitched deliveries.
 
 None of the top five batsmen could cross over the 50-run mark. So, what is the ideal way to play on South African pitches? "Your impact point should be close to the body," former Indian batsman,  , who took the cricket world by storm with his century in Durban 25 years ago, said.
 
 "When we toured South Africa, we didn't have such a bowling attack like the current team. In fact, it was a dream to think about getting the opposition out below 140. Therefore, the team should remain positive - like Hardik Pandya - and keep hitting loose deliveries. That is the only way to score in South Africa," Amre said, adding that the batting style of South Africa's AB de Villiers is the perfect example to follow.
 
 Is Kohli's aggression on the field helping the team? "That is the way Virat Kohli is. Everyone has a style of his own. Virat's aggression on the field doesn't really affect the morale of the team. The fact of the matter is that we lost the opening Test and need to show more character in the rest of the two Tests to win the series," More added.
 
