Three-two-one… go!” an automated voice bellows inside the arena as four whirling propellers lift you 15 feet above the ground and send you zooming through gates, gliding past buildings, ducking under tree branches and racing against seven others at 120 miles per hour.

 
 In what looks like a scene from a heist film or an aerial grand prix – with a pilot in the cockpit powering through hairpin curves and tight squeezes – is in reality a bunch of drone racers gathered in a parking lot at the Kamala Mills. Sitting on chairs with large goggles strapped to their head, they peck away on remote-control joysticks to navigate nano copters around a makeshift 400 metre looping course. Move over IPL, ISL, and Pro Kabaddi. Last Sunday, 20 drone pilots braved 35-degree weather to compete in what was billed as a national drone racing league in Mumbai organised by Mumbai’s gaming hub Smaaash.
 
 Contrary to reservations about the use of unmanned aerial vehicles particularly the drone in India, there is a nascent drone racing community headquartered in Mumbai called the Indian Drone Racing League (IDRL) that in just two years has spiralled from a pastime to a promising new spectator sport with 850 members from India.
 
 Not bad for a do-it-yourself hobby that began as casual races among friends in Korea, US and China until video footage of camera-equipped quadcopters racing through a forest logged in more than 2 million views. As more such clips hit the Internet, the sport arrived in India and spurred organized drone-racing competitions in college campuses starting in IIT Gandhinagar.
 
 This new gaming sensation is part virtual reality, part engineering feat and part video game that a group of tech fans and adrenaline junkies are turning into a real life sporting event.
 
 These self-styled pilots fly lightweight drones using a remote control with two joysticks to manoeuvre altitude, speed, direction and obstacles. This is judged over three rounds of qualifying heats, semis and finals. While the race simply involves completing an obstacle course in the fastest possible time - currently Indian drone races use football nets as “gates” that pilots need to fly their drones through – the freestyle event involves navigating the drone through hurdles and tricky backflips and barrel rolls. A camera mounted in front of the drone transmits live video feed to the VR headset that gives them the drone’s view.
 
 The experience, drone racer Ritvik Nesargi from Pune says, makes him feel like a bird and at times, like a gymnast. “It’s exhilarating. Feels like I can do all those things that they can – fly, dive, flip and zip,” says the engineering student who graduated from flying drones in a club at the foothills of Baner and competing at local events to representing India at an international drone racing championship in  , last year.
 
 For some it is an extreme sport. “It’s like the mind doing crazy things outside the body when you’re rocketing up and down above the ground but actually not,” laughs  , a 26-year-old drone racer from Nalasopara.
 
 This new sport wrapped in new technology is also a labour of love for pilots who spend hours building their own drone and don’t mind dishing out anything between Rs 30,000 to Rs 80,000 for the right motor, battery, propeller and camera lenses. Mid-air crashes are common but the total prize purse ranging between Rs 1 to 2 lakh makes up for the winner. If Ritivik has already spent over a lakh building and repairing his drones, Siddharth has doled out close to Rs 12 lakh. Although drone racing in India is still in its formative stages, the IDRL hopes that approval from the government and exposure from regular competitions will help push the sport to the mainstream. Among the challenges, Karan Kamdar, founderpresident of IDRL says: “There’s no formal process currently for approval of any category of drones which makes it a grey area. Racing drones conform to specifications drafted by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation. Government recognition would help bring down the huge expenses in importing and documentation of drone parts. For now, we seek out open fields, abandoned buildings, parks, and even salt pans.”
 
 To stay afloat, IDRL charges membership fees, sells merchandise like jerseys and asks colleges to pay a small sum for arranging drone racing competitions.
 
