New Delhi: All AAP legislators present in the assembly, including deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, and   Ram Niwas Goel on Wednesday wore black bands in protest against the LG’s communication asking Goel not to admit any question in the House on reserved subjects such as public order, land and services. 

 While the ministers and the MLAs sported black bands from the start of the day, the speaker wore it later. 
 
 Goel told the assembly earlier that the LG’s communication had carried the advice given by the union law ministry. He had condemned the advice, describing it as an “insult” to the House.
 
 Amid the government-LG-bureaucracy tussle, the MLAs have blamed   Anil Baijal and the bureaucrats for all unanswered questions. In the ongoing budget session, which has been extended till next Tuesday, several questions related to vigilance, official foreign tours of bureaucrats, ministers and MLAs, and other issues have not been answered.
 
 MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj said he had not received any answer to his question about chief secretary Anshu Prakash moving the high court against summons from the question and reference committee and the privilege panel. Sisodia said that during question hours, several questions were not answered by officials of several departments. 
 
 The speaker said that out of 40 questions, the House has not received answers to 17 questions as they concern reserved subjects. The questions were later forwarded to the question and reference committee. Goel has also written to Baijal for withdrawal of the order.
 
 Although the BJP MLAs did not wear black bands, they supported the demand that all questions should be answered. However, BJP’s Maninder Singh Sirsa said that being a constitutional authority, the speaker should not wear a black band. 
 
 During a discussion on the revised power tariff, the opposition claimed that people would end up paying more while the government maintained that they would in fact pay less. 
 
 BJP’s O P Sharma was marshalled out for allegedly using “derogatory” words during the discussions. Other BJP MLAs also walked out at the same time.
 
 
