PATNA: Altogether 114 students, including some girls, were expelled for using unfair means and two impersonators arrested on the first day of Intermediate examinations (Class XII) being conducted by the   (BSEB). The examinations were held at 1,384 centres across the state.

 According to BSEB, 15 examinees were expelled in Saran, 14 in Gaya, 10 each in Nawada and Siwan, eight in Aurangabad, seven in Arwal, six each in Khagaria and Begusarai, four each in Vaishali, Munger, Nalanda and Samastipur, three each in Jehanabad, Madhubani, Sheikhpura and Madhepura, two each in Bhagalpur, Jamui and Supaul and one each in Patna, Kaimur, Saharsa and Bhojpur districts.
 
 A Board official said one Sonu Kumar, who appeared at one of the examination centres in Begusarai district in place of his nephew, has been arrested. The other impersonator was arrested in Saharsa district. An FIR was lodged against an invigilator for violation of examination duty norms at one of the centres in Vaishali district. “We are yet to get the details of the FIR,” said the official.
 
 Board chairman Anand Kishor said he visited some of the exam centres, such as J D Women’s College, Bankipore Girl’s High School, Anugraha Narayan College and five model schools in Patna district to monitor the proceedings. Source said Kishor also frisked some of the examinees at these centres. Patna DM Kumar Ravi also visited some centres and frisked students. 
 
 A BSEB official said apart from “rumours” of biology question paper leak in Nawada, the examination went off peacefully across the state. Altogether 3.47 lakh students appeared for biology paper and 39,869 candidates for entrepreneurship paper in the first shift from 9.45am. In the second shift, which began at 1.45pm, 10,610 students appeared for philosophy and 829 for vocational paper (Hindi).
 
 On Wednesday, students will write language paper in the first shift and computer science, multimedia & web technology and foundation course papers in the second shift.
 
 
