BENGALURU: Better known as the IT-BT constituency in political circles, Mahadevapura is infamous for traffic gridlock, that dogs its tech hub Whitefield, and frothing lakes.

 
 The poll heat is rising gradually in the large constituency, which spreads from Sahakarnagar in the north to the borders of Hoskote in the east, and Anekal in the southeast. The segment has turned into a hotbed of citizen activism over Bellandur and Varthur lakes, crawling traffic and voter enrolment.
 
 
  
 
 Zibi Jamal, a member of Whitefield Rising which is spearheading several civic campaigns, says, “The traffic mess and polluted lakes are a major worry. Though Metro work is going on, our request for proper alternative roads till work gets over, has not been met.”
 
 Whitefield Rising is campaigning aggressively to push up voter turnout, besides organising a town hall with candidates.
 
 At the outset, it looks like it will be yet another straight fight between two-time BJP MLA Aravind Limbavali and AC Srinivas of Congress, in the constituency reserved for scheduled castes. The former minister, who had won the seat by about 6,000 votes against the Congressman last time, is up against some anti-incumbency, with voters complaining of lack of development work and access to their sitting MLA.
 
 Congress candidate Srinivas is banking on the Siddaramaiah government’s project to provide drinking water to the segment’s 23 villages that were included in BBMP. But he has also had to contend with allegations of land-grabbing and targeting of local Dalit leaders.
 
 Around 1.5lakh Dalit voters in the segment are a crucial factor in deciding the winner. Aam Aadmi Party has strategically fielded BR Bhaskar Prasad, an activist known for movements such as Udupi Chalo and Tumakuru Chalo, which fought for land and food rights of Dalits.
 
 “People say they last saw Limbavali the 2013 elections,” he says, adding that both BJP and Congress candidates belong to the creamy layer of SCs and don’t understand the problem of other Dalits.
 
 The JD(S) candidate, former Limbavali associate K Satish, has placed his hopes in the constituents’ ability to spring a surprise on national parties. “People have realised that they elected a person who is always out of reach. Many poor people are struggling to get their title deeds,” he said.
 
 Limbavali blames the segment’s expanse for his inaccessibility. “Despite this, I’ve had regular meetings with RWAs of apartments and revenue layouts. I may not be accessible to Congress leaders but that’s not my worry. Though Mahadevapura pays the most tax to the state, the government has not released enough money for my constituency and many projects are stuck,” he says.
 
 
