PANCHKULA: Two men were allegedly detained for no reason at Mansa Devi Complex police station here on Sunday night, forced to remove their clothes, beaten up with bamboo canes, and let off only when one of them started bleeding.

 An assistant sub-inspector (ASI) and a special police officer (SPO), who allegedly carried out the assault in a drunken state, were suspended on Monday, after news of the incident of police brutality spread and a protest followed. Such was the condition of the man who was left bloodied, 64-year-old Mohammad Ramzan, that he was first taken to  , Sector 6, and then referred to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh.
 
 He was still in the hospital when this story was filed. According to sources, Ramzan suffered injuries in the spine and required surgery.
 
  
  
 
 Panchkula assistant commissioner of police (law and order) Noopur   said the erring cops, ASI   and SPO Jagjeet Singh, had been suspended and sent to police lines, but they were yet to register a case. “A departmental probe has been started. We could not record the statement of the victim because he was still in the hospital. Further action will be taken after we record the duo’s statement,” Bishnoi said.
 
 The duo works for a godown owner, Rakesh Goyal, who lives in Sector 15, Chandigarh.   told TOI that Ramzan, a resident of Maha Dev Colony in Saketri, and his second employee, Bhainsa Tibba village resident  , left his godown in Manimajra around 11.30pm. They collected Goyal’s truck, which had been given for modifications at Manimajra motor market, and were headed for home when a PCR Gypsy tailed them and made them to stop.
 
 Though Ramzan, who was driving the truck, produced documents of the vehicle and made the two cops talk to his employer over the phone, they took the victims’ cellphones, switched them off, and then took them to the police station, where the assault took place.
 
 When cops realized that Ramzan started bleeding, the cops asked the duo to wear their clothes and leave with their truck around 12.20am. “Cops also snatched around Rs 1,500 from them,” said Goyal. As soon as the duo left, Tiwari phoned Goyal and then took Ramzan to the hospital.
 
 Around 11am on Monday, Saketri villagers blocked traffic near the Manimajra under bridge and demanded action against the The protest was left at 1pm, when they were informed that the cops had been suspended. 
 
 
 
