BHOPAL: The state government’s bid to lease out   has sparked controversy as only one tender has been received.

 The heritage building housed the MP   till 1996 and the government has invested over Rs 32 crore in its restoration. The very thought of leasing out a part of this historic compound has raised eyebrows.
 
 MP tourism board director (investment) A K Rajoria confirmed to TOI that only bid has been received, and that it’s up to the state government to take the final call in the matter.
 
 The proposed 90-year lease for a private investment bid has been shortlisted at Rs 12.5 crore, said sources. Minto Hall is divided into different zones, and lease of land parcel does not include the actual Minto Hall.
 
 The state government will decide on clearance for lease of a 6-acre parcel of land.
 
 In February, Madhya Pradesh Tourism Board floated a request for proposal for development of a 4-5 star hotel at Minto Hall. Operation and maintenance till a period of 90 years requires an investment of Rs 100 crore.
 
 Sultan   built Minto Hall in 1909, keeping in mind the requirement of a guesthouse near   (then called Lal kothi)
 
 
 
 As per a 2011 Supreme Court ruling, the state government has to maintain the main Minto Hall premises as a convention centre. However, Rajoria confirmed that the winner of the lease has been mandated to participate in a later bid for operation and maintenance of the historic building and convention centre as well.
 
 The board is already carrying out conservation and renovation of the heritage ‘Minto Hall’ and developing it in to a trade-cum-convention centre in the same premises of the proposed land parcel and shall provide it for operation to private sector, said an official. It comes two years after   was made nodal agency for restoration of the heritage building. A government press release of 2016 said that building an ultramodern 500-seater convention centre at the old Vidhan Sabha would cost Rs 32 crore. It also tempered apprehensions of conservationists who called for maintaining the originality of Minto Hall.
 
 The minimum upset price was set at only Rs 24.30 lakh. The letter of award was to be declared 30 days after March 6, the bid due date. The final deal would also need approval under the guidelines of department of disinvestment for the 6-acre land parcel. It includes Khasra 1431 (fish aquarium) and Khasra 1432 (vacant government land and outreach unit of gas relief and rehabilitation department). Asked about the status of bid, grievance redressent N K Brahme said he was not aware of it.
 
