College annual fests are something that every student eagerly waits for. Apart from all the fun and frolic that takes place during those days, there is a lot of planning that goes into it. But it all comes with the budget. Following the policy of monetary limits for college cultural fests has its merits and demerits.   spoke to a few students to find out if a monetary budget is needed while planning these fests. 

 
 
 I think a monetary cap is needed. Festing is one part of college and there are various other things that are needed to be done throughout an academic year. Excessive spending on a fest will exhaust funds for other things, so, a limit helps us plan in a better fashion. Hence, a lot of activities can be carried out.
  
 
 
 I do feel it is necessary to keep a check on the expenditure for fests, because all students are not involved in organizing a fest. In fact, there are only a handful that gain concrete output from them. Second, when parents send their children to college, their aim is for them to study and get better at their fields. Some colleges spend months organizing their fests and this may be considered a waste of time and money.
 
 
 College fests are the most-awaited events by students all over. It brings different people together, especially those who host the fest. With all this excitement, it’s easy to get lost in planning the events and go overboard. I feel it’s very necessary to have a budget to control the committee from over shooting targets and have fixed realistic goals. Setting these targets can help the committee think in a goal-oriented way and not sway too much into unrealistic territories. Budgets always help keep the whole process controlled and organized. So, I definitely think college fests should have a budget. 
 
 
 
 
 
 College fests are a really nice platform for students to break away from their regular academic cycles and show off their talents by participating in various events and though having a DJ is expensive, it’s fine to have fun also. Hence, I feel the bigger the fest, the better it will be. 
 
 
 
 One can never have the ‘Best Buy’ with a monetary cap. This has been a personal experience as a student. Students have to cut down on their creativity and have to limit their thinking with a monetary cap. We have to either erase the idea or substitute it with another that fits in the budget we have. People might argue saying this could make us think and come up with efficient plans, but it isn’t the case always and not having a limit can help us do better stuff.
  
 
 
 I will not agree with a monetary limit for a fest, as we know college fests are carried out in a grand way. Given today’s economy and price of commodities, budgets keep increasing. Also, if there is a monetary limit, getting DJs and other bands to perform would be difficult. Hence, I feel that the idea of applying a monetary limit for college cultural fests is not required. 
  
 
 
 
 
