BENGALURU: Starting from Saturday, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara   (BBMP) is launching a mammoth eight-day clean-up drive to rid the city of black spots. 

 All citizens, including resident welfare association members, students and professionals, can participate in the ambitious campaign, which aims to clean up 1,000km by removing solid waste, debris, e-waste, sand and silt from roads and drains.
 
 At a meeting on Wednesday, BBMP officials said CREDAI will support the drive by contributing equipment. If owners clean up their vacant plots that have turned into dumpyards and produce bills to that effect, they will be reimbursed by the Palike. 
 
 All debris collected as part of the initiative will be deposited in the Bellandur quarry, and wet waste will be transported to composting units across the city.
 
 The participants will be tasked with removing debris and garbage and beautifying flyovers, cleaning parks, playgrounds, lake surroundings and stormwater drains. To aid the project, the Palike has launched yet an app—CLEAN Bengaluru which is already available on the   Play Store. Through the app, those interested can give details of the number of volunteers willing to work in each ward, as well as the equipment such as paint, paint-brushes, compactors, gloves and masks. 
 
 Public can download the app and inform about solid waste in their vicinity for effective planning. Citizens, NGOs and resident welfare associations can also register as volunteers and join hands with the BBMP. Organisations can also support the project by sponsoring manpower and machinery.
 
 “All roads will be included in the campaign. Several NGOs have already come forward. Our engineers will develop ward-wise plans for the participants and map out the locations of black spots. A more detailed plan will be available on Thursday,” mayor Sampath Raj
 
 Second app in 3 months
 
 BBMP officials, however, were not forthcoming on the details of their latest campaign. They were not ready to categorize the roads they are targeting for clean-up. 
 
 CLEAN Bengaluru app is the second application to be launched by the civic body over the past few months. In December last year, the Palike launched its Fix My Street app. Through the application, citizens can take pictures of civic issues such as potholes and black spots, add their comments and location and upload them, while officials were given strict deadline to address them.
 
 Asked whether the apps can be really effective, BBMP commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad said: “Till date, we’ve received 10,748 complaints through Fix My Street app, 5,309 of which have been resolved, while 730 have been labelled work in progress. The remaining complaints pertain to other civic agencies.”
 
 The Fix My Street app too was launched with much hype after a huge number of potholes and craters started appearing on the city roads. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
